Fig. 113.—Dorsal Surface of the Right Manus of 127 Fig. 113. COMPARISON OF ARM AND LEG BONES. Compar. des Membres Polviens et Tlioraciques, Ac., dcduite de la Torsion de l’Humeras,” Mem. de l'Acad. de Montpellier, tom. iii., 1S57. Gegenbaur, “ On the Torsion of the Humerus,” in Jenaischen Zeitsch. and Annal. des Sciences Nat., iv., p. 50.) But it is easy to show by reference to the embryonic condi- tion. that the outward displacement of the lower end of the humerus in the pro- gress of its formation, does not exceed 1)0”. Martins has also proposed the view, that in order to compare the lower leg with the fore-ann. it is necessary to look upon the upper part of the tibia (corre- sponding in the main to the radius), as including, or having had transferred to it as it were, the olecranon process and upper part of the ulna; and he thus accounts for the attachment of the great extensor tendon of the leg to the tibia through the patella, which, according to his scheme, represents the olecranon, instead of to the fibula. Ingenious as these views undoubtedly are, they are liable to considerable objections on embryological grounds, and though not to he rejected altogether, cannot be considered as supplying the key to the explana- tion of the homologies of the limbs. Hand and Foot.—The similarity of the digital and metacarpal bones of the hand with those of the foot in number, form, and connections is so great that the homological correspondence of these bones is immediately recognised. The main differences between them consist in the greater general length of the digits of the hand, and the opposability of the thumb to the other fingers through its mobility at the carpo-metacarpal articulation,—conditions which are peculiarly characteristic of man, and do not exist in the same form or degree in any of the lower animals. a Water Tortoise. (Flower after Gegenbaur.) R, radius ; U, ulna ; r, radiale ; i, intermedium ; u, ulnare ; c, centrale ; 1—5, five carpal bones of the ■distal row ; mx—mb, five metacarpals. Between the carpus and tarsus there is also considerable general similarity, especially in the bones of the distal series ; but in those of the proximal row there are some differences which may be referred to here at greater length. There can, indeed, be no doubt as to the homological correspondence of the trapezium, trapezoid and magnum with the internal, middle and external cuneiform bones of the tarsus respectively, nor of the unciform with the cuboid bone ; and all the more in the case of the last two bones, that it is found that in the Chelonia and some other reptiles and amphibia, the second series of carpal and tarsal bones are increased to five by the division of the unciform of the hand and cuboid of the foot into two each ; thus giving one carpal or tarsal bone for articulation with each of the five metacarpal or metatarsal bones. Upon the homologies of the proximal series of bones, new light has been thrown by the researches of Gegenbaur. (“ Untersuch. zur Vergleich. Anat. &c., Carpus and Tarsus,” Leipzig, 1864.) In the simplest and most constant form of this series in the carpus, he distinguishes typically three bones, viz. a radial, an intermediate, and an ulnar, corresponding respectively to the scaphoid* lunar and cuneiform bones of human anatomy. The pisiform he regards as an ■ osseous element developed in the tendon of a muscle (flexor carpi ulnaris) ■ and therefore not holding the same rank in the series as the other bones* but constituting an ulnar sesamoid. In the foot Gegenbaur shows that the a-s ragalns corresponds to the united scaphoid and lunar of the hand, or to ie pioximal parts at least of these bones. But in some mammals (Simiae and o en la), as well as in reptiles and amphibia, another bone has long been known