287 MUSCLES OF THE PIIARYXX. the thyroid body, the carotid artery, and the stemo-thyroid muscle; and from thTs last, where the two muscles meet on the thyroid cartilage, some fibres are continued into the constrictor. By its inner surface it is related to the middle constrictor, the stylo-pharyngeus, the palate-pharyngeus, and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The two laryngeal nerves pass inwards to the larynx, close respectively to the upper and lower margins of this constrictor—the upper being interposed between it and the middle constrictor, the lower between it an the oesophagus. Fig. 212.—View op Fig. 212. the Muscles op the Pharynx, &c., from behind (after Bourgery). £ The back part of the skull, the ver- tebral column and back parts of the ribs are removed, a, cut surface of the basilar process ; b, the clavicle; c, the first rib ; d, the ramus of the lower jaw; e, posterior ex- tremity of the great cornu of the hyoid bone ; /, posterior surface of the manu- brium of the ster- num ; 1, superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx; above it the fibrous mem- brane which closes the pharynx ; 2, mid- dle constrictor ; 2', a dotted line, indi- cating the direction of the lower part of the muscle ; 3, the inferior constrictor ; 4, oesophagus ; 5, in- ternal pterygoid ; 6, stylo-glossus ; 7, pos- terior belly of the digastric ; 8, a portion of the stylo-liyoid surrounding the tendon of the digastric ; 9, sterno-mastoid ; 10, upper belly of the omo-hyoid ; 11, stemo-thyroid muscle (represented somewhat too broad). The middle constrictor muscle arises from the upper surface of the cornua of the os hyoides, and from the stylo-hyoid ligament: its fibres, diverging greatly, pass back to the middle line of the pharynx behind, the lowest fibres inclining downwards, beneatli the inferior constrictor, the highest ascending and overlapping the superior constrictor, and the intermediate fibres running transversely. Relations.—This muscle is separated from the superior constrictor by the stylo- pharyngeus muscle and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, while between its origin and that of the inferior constrictor the superior laryngeal nerve pierces the thyro- hyoid membrane. Varieties.—Fibres of the middle constrictor have been observed to arise from the body of the os hyoides and the thyro-hyoid ligament, (sijndesmo-pharyngen&