349 branches of the aorta. Fig. 243.—View of the Thoracic and upper PART OF THE ABDOMINAL Aorta, showing their PRINCIPAL RELATIONS (A. T.) i a, tlie hyoid hone ; b, placed on the anterior scalene muscles, points to the upper part of the pneu- mogastric nerves; c, the trachea below the isthmus of the thyroid gland, and lower down the same letter is on the left bronchus ; c', one of the divisions of the right bronchus emerging from behind the aorta ; in the hollow of the aortic arch, above 5, are seen the cord of the ductus arteri- osus cut short, and the left recurrent nerve passing below the arch; 4-, is placed on the right side between the recurrent nerve and the vertebral artery as they pass upwards ; d, the oeso- phagus ; e, upon the right crus of the diaphragm, and farther down e', mark the receptaculum cliyli of the thoracic duct, and its com- mencement by the lumbar plexus of lymphatic vessels and efferent mesenteric lac- teal vessels ; /, on the third, seventh, and eleventh ribs, points to the vena azygos and superior inter- costal veins of the right side; g, kidney ; g', supra- renal body ; h, body of the fourth lumbar vertebra. I, sinus of the aortic arch or ascending part of the arch : below this the semilunar valves are seen closed and distended by injection ; I', posterior part of the arch, upon which the left pneumo-gastric nerve is seen descending; I", descending thoracic part of the aorta ; II, abdominal aorta emerging from be- tween the crura of the diaphragm. Fig. 243. iDiiuuimiltlti)! HBUUUfjtfify Branches of the arch and thoracic aorta; 1, right and left coronary arteries ; 2, inno- minate ; 3, left carotid; 4, left subclavian; 5, bronchial arteries ; 6, 6, oesophageal arteries : the lower figure points by a line to the thoracic duct; 7, intercostal arteries, marked in the sixth and seventh intercostal spaces. Branches of the abdominal aorta; 8, inferior diaphragmatic arteries cut short; 9, ccenac axis with the gastric, splenic, and hepatic arteries cut short ; 10, placed on the