BRANCHES OF INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 440 the scrotum and the upper part of the perinamm. Given off from the pudie artery in front of the haemorrhoidnl branches, it turns upwards parallel with the Pubic arch, crosses the transverse muscle of the perimeum, and runs forwards under cover of the superficial fascia, between the erector penis' and accelerator nrinaj muscles, supplying both. In this course the artery gradually becomes superficial, and is finally distributed to the skin of the scrotum and the dartos. It not unfrequently gives off the following branch. Fig. 286. Fig. 286.—Dissection op the Perineum in a Young Male Subject SHOWING THE I.LOOU- Yessels, &c. (A.T.) i This drawing is made from a preparation upon a modification of the plan of R. Quain’s 61st and 62nd Plates. The right side show's a superficial, the left a deeper view*. a, the anus, writh a part of the integument surrounding it ; b, left half of the bulb of the urethra exposed by the removal of a part of the bulbo-cavernosus muscle ; c, coccyx ; cl, right tube- rosity of the ischium ; c, c, superficial perineal fas- cia passing forward upon the scrotum ; /, right isehio-rectal fossa, from which the fat and fascia have not been removed ; !/, gluteus maximus mus- cle ; 1, placed on the right transversus perinasi muscle, points to the su- perficial perineal artery as it emerges in front (in this case) of the muscle ; 1', placed on the left side on the surface of the tri- angular ligament near its reflection into the super- ficial fascia, points to the superficial perineal artery cut short ; 2, on the right iscliio-cavernosus muscle, points to the superficial perineal arteries and nerves passing forward ; 2', the same on the left side, the vessels and nerves having been divided there ; 3, on the triangular ligament •of the right side points to the transverse perineal branch of the superficial perineal artery ; 4, on the left tuberosity of the ischium, points to the pudie artery deep in the ischio-rectal fossa ; 5, 5', the inferior hasmorrhoidal branches of the pudie arteries and nerves ; 6, on the left side, placed in a recess from which the triangular ligament or anterior layer of the subpubic fascia has been removed to show the continuation of the pudie artery, its branch to the bulb, and one of Cowper’s glands. (o) The transverse perineal artery, a very small vessel, is frequently a branch of the preceding, but in some instances arises from the pudie artery. It crosses the perinaium, and terminates in small branches which are distributed to ®