502 THE TOIITAL SYSTEM OF VEINS. and behind the pancreas, where it joins with the splenic vein to form the vena portrn. Fig. 320. Fig. 320. — Diagramma- The branches of the inferior mesen- teric vein correspond with the ramifications of the artery of the same name. They commence at the lower part of the rectum in the htemorr- hoidal plexus, and unite into a single vessel near the sigmoid flexure of the colon. From this point the vein proceeds upwards and inwards along the lumbar region, behind the peritoneum, crossing between the transverse mesocolon and the spine, or farther to the left, and then passing beneath and behind the pancreas, it reaches the splenic vein in which it terminates. tig Outline op the Portal Vein and its RELATION TO THE LlVER, &C. (A. T.) i Tlie liver is supposed to be turned upwards so as to present a portion of its under surface. a, gall-bladder; b, square lobe ; c, left lobe ; 1, trank of the vena port® ; 2, great or superior me- senteric vein ; 2', its middle colic branch, form- ing loops of communica- tion between the right and left colic veins ; 3, intestinal branches ; +, small pancreatico-duode- nal branch ; 4, right colic branch ; 5, ileo- colic ; 6, coronary vein of the stomach ; + +, right gastro-epiploic ; 7, sple- nic vein; 7', its branches to the spleen ; 7", its. branches to the stomach ; 8, inferior mesenteric vein; 9, left colic branch; 9', its communication with the middle colic; 10, sigmoid ; 11, superior haemorrhoidal ; 12, the right, and 13, the left division of the vena port;* in the transverse fissure of the liver; 14, the ob- literated cord of the um- bilical vein; 15, the ob- literated cord of the duc- tus venosus ; 16, part of vena cava inferior. Varieties.—In some cases the umbilical vein remains in some degree pervious from the point where it joins the left portal branch, up to the inner surface of the rectus muscle, and is joined in the latter situation by a branch of the deep epigastric vein, thus establishing a communication between the external iliac and portal veins. Tin's communicating branch, according to Luschka, is normal,