THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 9 what variously applied by anatomists, is most frequently employed to denote an eminence bearing a flattened articular surface. The cavities and depressions of bones are very various. An aperture or perfo- ration, when short, is named a foramen; when continued some way as a passage it is termed a canal or meatus. A narrow slit is named a fissure, an open excava- tion or hollow in one or in several bones together is termed a fossa. This term is also sometimes applied to the socket of a joint, as in the glenoid or shallower, and the cotyloid or deeper form of joint cavity. Sinus and antrum are names applied to considerable cavities in the interior of certain bones. Besides these, various other terms are employed which do not require explanation, such as 'notch, (incisura) groove, furrow, (sulcus), &c. The number of bones in the skeleton varies at different periods of life, some which are originally distinct becoming united together as the usually reckoned as distinct in middle life :— Single bones. Pairs. Total. The vertebral column . . 26 26 The skull . . 6 8 22 The hyoid bone . . 1 1 The ribs and sternum . . 1 12 25 The upper limbs . ... 32 64 The lower limbs . . ... 31 62 34 83 200 Besides the hones included in the above enumeration, there exist like- wise the small auditory ossicles, and various bones formed in tendons and called sesamoid, such as the patella, and those of the thumb and great toe, usually amounting to 8 pairs or 16 in all. I.—THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The vertebral column is composed of a series of bones called verte- bra, which are united together, for the most part, by joints and elastic substance in such a manner that, although the amount of motion allowed between each pair is slight, the aggregate is sufficient to give the column very considerable flexibility. The vertebrae are originally thirty-three in number. Of these, the twenty-four upper remain separate in the adult, retaining their mobility, and are hence called moveable vertebrae. They are succeeded by five others, which rapidly diminish in size from above downwards, and which are united into one mass called the sacrum ; beyond the sacrum are four dwindled terminal members of the series, which as age advances, likewise become more or less united, and form the coccyx. These sacral and coccygeal vertebra? have thus been called the fixed or united vertebrae. General characters of the Vertebrae.—The general characters are best seen in the vertebrae placed near the middle of the column, of which the sixth dorsal vertebra, shown in Fig. 8, may serve as an example. Each has more or less the form of a ring, and presents for consideration a body, arch, and processes. The body or centrum (Owen), is a short cylinder or disc, which forms the anterior part of the vertebra. Its superior and inferior surfaces are nearly flat. Its anterior aspect is convex from side to side, but slightly concave from above downwards. Its posterior surface forms part of the ring, and is slightly concave from side to side. These vertical surfaces