Fig. 290. BRANCHES OF EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 452 the Vessels of the Groin to a Quain). ^ Fig. 290.—View of the relation of The epigastric artery is accompanied by two veins, which unite into a single trunk before ending in the external iliac vein. In its course upwards from Poupart’s ligament to the rectus muscle,, the artery passes close to the inner side of the internal abdominal ring ; and the vas deferens, entering through the ring, turns behind the artery in descending into the pelvis. Branches.—These are small but numerous. («) The cremasteric artery, a slender branch, accompanies the spermatic cord, and, supplying the cremaster muscle and other coverings of the cord, anasto- moses with the spermatic artery. (Jj) . Several muscular branches arise from each side of the epigastric artery, ramify in the rectus muscle, and communicate with the branches of the lumbar and circumflex iliac arteries. (c) Superficial branches perforate the abdominal muscles, and join beneath the skin with branches of the superficial epigastric artery. (d) The pubic is a small branch, which ramifies behind the pubes, and commu- nicates by means of one or more descending twigs with a similar branch from the obturator artery. Femoral Hernia, &c. (from R. In the upper part of the figure a portion of the flat muscles of the abdomen has been removed, displaying in part the transversalis fascia and peritoneum ; in the lower the fascia lata of the thigh is in part removed and the sheath of the femoral vessels opened. a, anterior superior spinous process, of the ilium ; b, aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblique muscle; c, the perito- neum and fascia transversalis ; d, the iliac portion of the fascia lata near the- saphenic opening ; e, sac of a femoral hernia opened ; 1, femoral artery ; 2, femoral vein at the place where it is- joined by the saphena vein ; 3, deep epigastric artery and vein ; -f-, placed upon the upper part of the femoral vein close below the common trunk of' the epigastric and an aberrant obtu- rator artery ; the latter artery is seen in this case to pass close to the veiis> between it and the neck of the hernial tumour. 2. The deep circumflex iliac artery, smaller than the preceding- vessel, arises from the outer side of the iliac artery near Poupart’s liga- ment, and is directed outwards behind that band to the anterior supe- rior iliac spine. Following thence the crest of the hip-bone, the artery ,rjves branches to the iliacus and abdominal muscles, and anastomoses with the ilio-lumbar artery. In its course, outwards, this artery lies in front of the transversalis fascia, at the junction of this with the fascia iliaca. . Two veins accompany the circumflex iliac artery ; these unite below