187 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. ' x,—MUSCLES AND FASCI2E OF THE UPPER LIMB. A certain number of muscles situated superficially on the trunk pass to the bones of the shoulder and humerus, so as to attach the upper limb to the body. These muscles, from their position, form a division of the muscles'of the trunk, but considered with reference to their destination and action they may be held as belonging to the upper limbs, and will therefore be so described in the present section. The muscles referred to are, posteriorly, the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, the rhomboidei, and levator anguli scapulae ; and, anteriorly, the two pectoral muscles, the subclavius, and the serratus magnus. Along with these might also be included the clavicular part of the sterno-cleido- mastoid muscle and the omohyoid ; but as these last have important relations with parts situated in the neck, they are more conveniently described among the muscles of that region. X. BETWEEN THE TRUNK AND THE UPPER LIMB POSTERIORLY. Fascia:.—The superficial fascia covering the muscles which pass from the trunk to the shoulder and upper limb posteriorly forms a layer of considerable strength with embedded fat lying below the skin : it is continuous with that of the neck above, that of the axilla and breast in front, and that of the abdomen and hips below. The deep fascia of the back forms a dense fibrous layer closely invest- ing the superficial muscles to which it furnishes sheaths : at the outer margins of the trapezius and latissimus dorsi muscles it is continuous with the deep fasciae of the neck, breast, axilla, and abdomen, and turns round beneath the edges of the muscles so as to complete their sheaths and separate them from the subjacent layer of muscles. It is attached to the skeleton along the line of the spines of the vertebral, and dorsum of the sacrum, to the occipital bone, the spine of the scapula, and the crest of the ilium. In the loins there is a strong, flat, shining tendinous structure called the lumbar aponeurosis, to which the latissimus dorsi and other muscles are attached posteriorly ; but this will be most conveniently described along with the muscles of the back. Muscles.—The trapezius muscle (cucullaris) arises by a thin apon- eurosis from the protuberance of the occipital bone, aud the inner third of its superior curved line, from the ligamentum nuclue, and from the spines of the last cervical and all the dorsal vertebras, as well as from the supraspinous ligaments. From this extended line of origin the fibres converge to their insertion : the superior fibres, descending and turning forwards in the neck, are inserted into the external third of the clavicle at its posterior border ; the succeeding fibres pass transversely to the inner border of the acromion process and upper border of the spine of the scapula, while the inferior fibres, ascending obliquely, terminate in a flat tendon which glides over the triangular area at the base of the spine or the scapula, and is inserted into the rough mark at the root ot the spine. The greater part of the line of origin presents only a small admixture of tendinous fibres, but opposite the seventh cervical