SACRO-ILIAC ARTICULATION. VOL. I. M 1G1 occur till a more advanced age; the pieces of the coccyx uniting one to another in the first place., and the joint between the sacrum and coccyx not ossifying till old age. The mobility seems to increase during pregnancy. The SACRO-ILIAC articulation, often named the sacro-iliac syn- chaldrons, is formed between the auricular surfaces of the sacrum and ilium, which are bound together by a plate of cartilage, and by strong ligaments (see fig* 148). The auricular cartilaginous plate unites the bones with great firm- ness When the ilium and sacrum are forcibly torn asunder, this plate usually separates into two layers, one of which adheres to the surface of each hone In some instances a small canty naturally exists between these two plates of cartilage, and in advanced life small spaces con- taining o-lairy fluid are liable to he formed between them. Even when separate in part, however, these plates are very closely applied, and admit only a limited amount of movement. The cavity of this articu- lation becomes more apparent, and the ligaments somewhat looser before parturition. . . „ . , „ The posterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of a large number or strong irregular fibres extending across the interval between the pos- Fig. 146. Fig. 146.—Ligaments op the Pelvis and Hip-Joint, seen from behind, from a Female Subject. (A. T.) $ • I 1, ilio-lumbar ligament: above it the last lumbar intertransverse ligament; 2, posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, the short and the oblique ; 3, great sacro-sciatic ligament; 4, lesser sacro-sciatic ligament; 5, obturator membrane ; 6, posterior ligament of symphysis pubis ; 7, 7, continuation of supraspinous ligaments from the lower lumbar vertebra: over the sacral spines ; 8, transverse process of last lumbar vertebra, to which from above is seen descending the last intertransverse ligament, and from below ascending the sacro-vertebral ligament; 9, posterior surface of the capsular ligament of the hip- joint. The posterior ligaments passing between the sacrum and coccyx are also partially ' shown.