•100 THE ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. extends from tlie lower border of the posterior fold of the axilla, to about a finger’s breadth below the bend of the elbow, or to a point opposite the neck of the radius, where it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. The vessel gradually inclines from the inner side to the fore part of the limb, lying in the depression along the inner border of the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles ; and its direction may be marked out by a line drawn from midway between the folds of the axilla to the middle point between the condyles of the humerus. To command the flow of blood through the artery at its upper part, pres- sure should be directed outwards, while over the lower end of the vessel the pressure should be made from before backwards. The brachial artery lies beneath the integument and fascia of the arm as far as the bend of the elbow, where it sinks deeply in the in- terval between the pronator teres and supinator longus muscles, and is covered by the semilunar fascia, a fibrous expansion given from the tendon of the biceps to the fascia of the forearm. It rests at first on the long head of the triceps muscle, the musculo-spiral nerve, and the superior profunda artery intervening ; it then inclines forwards over the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle, and lies thence to its termination on the brachialis anticus. At its outer side it is in appo- sition first with the coraco-brachialis, and afterwards and for the greater part of its length with the biceps, the inner border of one or both muscles sometimes slightly overlapping it. Relation to Veins.—Venae comites are in close contact with the brachial artery, short transverse branches of communication passing from one to another, so as at many points to encircle it. Superficial to the aponeurosis, the basilic vein is placed over or to the inner side of the artery in the lower half or more, or in the whole length of its course, according the level at which the vein dips down to join the veme smites • and at the bend of the elbow the median basilic vein crosses 3vcr the artery, the aponeurotic insertion of the biceps lying between them. Fig. 262. Fig. 262.— Superficial Dissection of thb Blood-Vessels and Nerves at the Bend of the Arm (from R. Quain). a, two brandies of tlio internal cutaneous nerve ; a' a", the descending twigs of the same ' nerve ; b, placed over the biceps near its inser-1 tion and close to the external cutaneous nerve; V, anterior twigs of the same nerve accompany- ing the median vein ; 1, placed on the fascia of the arm near the bend of the arm, above the place where it has been opened to show the lower part of the brachial artery with its rente comites, of which one is entire, marked 2, and the other has been divided ; +, is placed between the artery and the median nerve ; 3, basilic vein; 3', 3', ulnar veins ; 4, cephalic vein ; 4', radial vein ; 5, 5, median vein; 3', 5, median basilic vein ; 4', 5, median cephalic veiu.