357 COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES. 1' placed on the left stemo-thyroid muscle, points to a part of the left common carotid ; 2 internal carotid ; 2', upper part of the internal jugular vein, which lias been removed between i and 2' •• 3 and 4, external carotid ; 3 is placed at the origin of the superior thyroid artery • A at that of the lingual ; farther up the vessel may be seen the separa- tion of the sterno-mastoid twig and the facial and occipital branches from the main vessel ; 5, is placed on the thyro-hyoid muscle between the hyoid and laryngeal branches of 5', the superior thyroid artery; 6, the facial artery passing over the base of the jaw ; 7, the superficial temporal artery ; 8, the first part, 8', the third part of the subclavian artery ; 8", the subclavian vein separated from the artery by the scalenus anticus muscle ; 9, is placed on the scalenus anticus muscle in the angle between the transversalis colli and suprascapular branches of the thyroid axis ; 10, outer part of the suprascapular artery; 10' transverse cervical branches passing into the deep surface of the trapezius ; 10", the posterior scapular artery, rising directly from the third part of the subclavian artery ; 11, on the scalenus anticus muscle, points to the inferior thyroid artery near the place where the ascending cervical artery of the neck is given off; the phrenic nerve lies on the muscle to the outside of the figure at /, the suprasternal twig of the suprascapular artery is shown. they differ materially in their place of origin, and consequently in their length and position, at their commencement. On the right side the carotid artery commences at the root of the neck behind the upper part of the stemo-clavicular articulation, at the bifurcation of the innominate artery ; but on the left side the carotid arises within the thorax, from the highest part of the arch of the aorta, very near the origin of the innominate artery. The left carotid is thus as a whole longer than the right, and its first part is placed at some depth within the thorax. While within the thorax, the left carotid ascends obliquely behind and at some distance from the upper piece of the sternum and the muscles (sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid) connected with that part of the bone ; it is covered in front by the remains of the thymus gland, and is crossed by the left innominate vein. This part of the artery lies in front of the trachea, and of the oesophagus, which, at the root of the neck, deviates a little to the left side ; the thoracic duct is also behind it. The left carotid artery here lies between the innominate and the left subclavian arteries, and the vagus nerve is to its outer side. In the neck the common carotid artery of either side reaches from behind the sterno-clavicular articulation to the level of the upper border ■of the thyroid cartilage, where it divides into two great branches, of which one is distributed to the cranium and face, and the other to the brain and eye. These divisions have, from their destination, been named respectively the external and internal carotid arteries. The oblique course taken by the common carotid artery along the side of the neck is indicated by a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular arti- culation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process of the temporal bone. At the root of the neck, the arteries of opposite sides are separated from each other only by a narrow interval, corresponding with the width of the trachea ; but, as they ascend, they are separated by a much larger interval, corresponding with the breadth ot the pharynx and larynx. The carotid arteries have the appearance of being placed farther back at the upper than at the lower part of the neck, owing to the forward projection of the larynx above. - 11jc common carotid artery is enclosed, together with the internal jugular vein and the vagus nerve, in a common sheath, which is continuous with the deep cervical fascia; the nerve, artery and vein aie, however, each contained in a separate fibrous investment