u VERTEBRAL COLUMN. dorsal vertebra;, and distinguished by the absence of costal articular surfaces. Fig. 9. Fig.9.—ThirdLumbarVertebua.(A.T.)4 A, from above ; B, from tbe right side. 1, the body ; 2, the pedicle and inter- vertebral notch ; 3, the lamina ; 4, the vertebral ring, somewhat triangular ; 5, the spinous process ; 6, transverse process ; 7, 7/ superior and inferior articular pro- cesses ; e, the mammillary tubercle, appa- rently on the superior articular process ; /, the accessory tubercle, between the ar- ticular and transverse processes. The hodij has a greater diameter transversely than from before back- wards, and viewed from above or below its surface presents a reni- form outline. That of the fifth lumbar vertebra is considerably deeper in front than behind. The lamina, are shorter, deeper, and thicker than those of the dorsal vertebrae. The superior notches are shallow, the inferior deep. The spinous process projects horizontally backwards. It has con- siderable breadth from above Fig. 10. downwards, and is thickened and rough along its posterior edge. Fig. 10.—Two Lower Dorsal and two Upper Lumbar Vertebra. (A. T.) 4 with portions of the eleventh and twelfth ribs of the right side : viewed from behind, cliiefly to show the relations of the trans- verse processes and adjacent tubercles. 1, body of the eleventh dorsal vertebra ; 5, spinous process of the second lumbar ; 6, costal tubercle of the transverse process; 7, 7', superior and inferior articular pro- cesses ; c, mammillary, and /, accessory tubercle ; c, c, two ribs. These indica- tions are placed only on the alternate verte- bral to avoid crowding the figure. The transverse jwoccsses, long and somewhat spatula-sliaped, project directly outwards. Their extremities lie in series with the external tubercles of the lower dorsal transverse processes, and ,vith the ribs. Behind each at its base is a small process pointing lownwards, which corresponds to the inferior tubercles ol the dorsal trans- rerse processes, and is called the accessory process (anapopliysis, Owen).