108 BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. posterior intertrochanteric tine, which passes downwards and inwards to Fig. 96.—Femcr of a Male from before. (A.T.) 4 1, shaft ; 2, head ; 3, neck ; 4, great tro- chanter ; 5, small trochanter; 6, anterior inter-trochanteric line; 7, internal articular condyle ; 8, external articular condyle ; 9, in- ternal tuberosity ; 10, external tuberosity; 11, the patella articular surface ; above it, 12, the flat part of the femur sometimes called the suprapatellar surface; 13, the depression for the tendon of the popliteus muscle. the small trochanter, and limits the neck posteriorly. The small tro- chanter, a conical rounded eminence, projects from the posterior and inner aspect of the bone, and gives at- tachment to the tendon of the psoas and iliacus muscles. The anterior intertrochanteric line is a rough ridge limiting the neck in front between the two trochanters ; it indicates the superior border of the crureus and vastus interims muscles, and is con- tinuous beneath the great trochanter with the line which limits the vastus externus. The shaft is slightly arched from above downwards, with the con- vexity forwards. It is expanded at its upper and lower ends. Towards the centre it is nearly cylindrical, but with an inclination to the prismatic form. Its anterior and lateral sur- faces, smooth and uniform, are covered by the crureus and vasti muscles. The elevation which sepa- rates the anterior from the internal surface is at the upper part strongly marked and inclined forwards, giving the appearance to the bone as if the forward inclination of the neck were produced by a twisting outwards of the upper end of the shaft. The lateral surfaces in the middle of their extent approach one another behind, being only separated by the linea aspera. The tinea asperci is a pro- minent ridge, extending along the central third of the shaft posteriorly, and bifurcating above and below. It inclines slightly inwards in the mid- Fig. 96. ' \ •til, J1 JIlULillUo DllgULUAJ iunwAVAu ’ die, so as to make the external surface of the shaft seem concave in that