VARIETIES OF THE AORTIC ARCH. 351 3. The Varieties in the Aortic Arch itself, along with which must be included ■ those of the ductus arteriosus, are intimately connected with the mode of develop- ment of the fourth and fifth foetal branchial arteries. The natural aortic arch of man, and of all mammalia, is a left one produced by the persistence and develop- ment of the fourth left branchial arch : in birds it is the right arch which forms the permanent aorta ; and in reptiles both the right and left fourth arches I remain patent. Here it may be proper to call attention to the complete lateral transposition, ?'. e., from right to left and vice versa, which affects the aortic arch and pulmonary vessels, as well as the other parts of the heart, when transposed with or without the transposition of other viscera. Several cases of this kind have been accurately recorded by various observers, and are usually unattended with any disturbance , of the functions or otherwise unnatural condition of structure. There is, in fact, only a change of position, which may be best described by comparing it to that in which the natural parts would appear if viewed by reflection from a mirror. Although this transposition gives rise to no perceptible lesion of fmiction, yet from the direction of the apex of the heart towards the right, and other differences from the natural position, its existence is capable of being ascertained during life. Fig. 244.—Diagram of xnE Foetal Aortic Arches, showing tiieir transforma- tions INTO THE PERMANENT VESSELS OF the Mammal (after Rathke). A.T. A, to the right of the primitive arterial bulb, now divided into aortic and pulmo- nary stems, the latter in front ; a, the right, a', the left aortic roots ; A', the descending aorta ; on the right side, the double out- lines, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, indicate the five primi- tive branchial vascular arches ; on the left side, I, II, III, IV, mark the seat of the four branchial or pharyngeal clefts ; c, the place of division of the aortic arches into two anteriorly, between the common carotid arteries ; ce, the permanent external caro- tids ; ci, the right, ci', the left internal carotids ; s, the right, s', the left subcla- vians ; p, the right, v', the left vertebrals ; the fourth right arch forms the innominate trunk, and passes on to v and s, the right vertebral and subclavian arteries ; the fourth left arch passes to a’ as permanent aortic arch P, pulmonary arteries springing from the fifth left arch, which at d is continued into the left aortic root as ductus arteriosus; Pn> right, pn', left pneumogastric nerves. T seated in deep shade. Fig. 244. permanent systemic arteries are repre- knm^an°fiC arc\hfrs1been observed completely double in two remarkable cases, a‘: tbo*e of Malacame and IlQmmel, and various less complete cases of a • ‘ kind have been observed. Ilommel’s case admits of being explained on remS?10n SHnply,°f both the riSbt aml left fourth branchial arches having BiSd Cqiial development- Tbe P^monary artery was embraced cln i 11? ?f ma? aortlc stem ; the ri°ht ancl left aortic arches common carotifamf ^ ^ ^ fuUet m a ring’ and eacb arch Sfave rise to a case is diffmw * flbclavmn artery in the order now mentioned. Malacame’s •abnormal nmdo Sefms t0 have been complicated with some remarkable Hommel’s case ? the ai'terial stem' Tlie two arches, as in heart, so as to recehl tf* tracbea and gullet, but they divided close to the a subclavian an extl^vi pubnonary stem between them ; and each gave rise to > emal, and an internal carotid artery, in the order now stated,