MUSCLES OF TIIE ORBIT. 277 Nerves.—Five of the muscles of the orbit, viz., levator palpebrse supe- rioris, the superior, internal, and inferior recti and the inferior oblique, are under the influence of the third pair or common oculo-motor nerve ; the external rectus is supplied by the sixth pair, or abducent ocular, and the superior oblique by the fourth pair, or trochlear nerve. From what is stated hereafter as to the action of the muscles, it will appear that in all the consentaneous movements of direction of the two eyes muscles are in action which receive their motor nerves from two different sources. Actions. —The levator palpebras superioris is, as its name implies, simply an elevator of the upper eyelid, acting in this as the antagonist of the upper pal- pebral part of the orbicularis muscle. The eyeball is so situated in the structures which surround it in the orbit that it is capable of free motion on a central fixed point: but it does not appear to shift its place as a whole within the orbit, nor to undergo perceptible change of form from the action of the muscles. The position of the point round which the movements of the eyeball take place is nearly in the centre of curvature of the posterior wall, and from half a line to a line behind the middle of the antero- posterior axis of the eyeball. The movements of the eyeball may be conveniently reduced to four kinds, viz., 1, simple lateral movements in a horizontal plane ; 2, simple movements of eleva- tion or depression; 3, oblique movements of elevation or depression, and 4, movements of rotation. In the first two kinds the vertical meridian of the eye is not subject to any change of inclination ; in the third kind the movements of direction are accompanied by a small amount of rotation or inclination of the vertical meridian to one or other side ; and in the fourth kind, when simple, the whole movement is one of inclination of the vertical meridian. These movements however, unless perhaps the first, are seldom simple, but more frequently different kinds are combined together. The three first kinds constitute the various move- ments of direction by which the visual axis is turned within certain limits to various points in space; the extent of motion being about 90° in the vertical and 100° in the horizontal direction. Simple movements of rotation do not appear to occur to any considerable extent, and it has been ascertained by experiment that they do not, as was supposed by Hueck and others, maintain the eyeballs in a fixed position dming inclined movements of the head. In these different movements the six muscles of the eyeball may advan- tageously be considered as acting in three pairs. 1st. In the horizontal move- ments the internal and external recti muscles are the sole agents, the one acting as an adductor and the other as an abductor ; and this movement they effect without any rotation, their line of action being exactly in the horizontal plane of the eyeball. 2nd. It is different with the superior and inferior recti; for while these muscles undoubtedly are respectively the most direct elevators and de- pressors of the cornea, they have both a tendency, from the line of their action being to the inside of the centre of motion of the eyeball, to produce inward direction with a small amount of rotation. This tendency is corrected by the association of the oblique muscles in all upward and downward movements ; the inferior oblique being associated with the superior, and the superior oblique with the inferior rectus muscle. The simple action of the superior oblique muscle, when the eye is directed straight forward, is to produce a movement of the cornea downwards and outwards, that of the inferior oblique to direct the ■cornea upwards and outwards, and in both with a certain amount of rotation, ough in different directions in the two cases. But these movements caused _ y t io oblique muscles are precisely those which are required to neutralise the inward direction and rotatory movements produced by the superior or the in erior rectus, and accordingly, by the combined action of the superior rectus aiu. . e ^rtcrior oblique muscles a straight upward movement is effected, while a smu ar effect in the downward direction results from the combined action of e interior rectus and superior oblique muscles. , I been further shown that in all the oblique movements of direction a lma 10T^ takes place of the action of the oblique writh that of the recti p ,cf.' ere> however, two recti muscles are in action and are associated with i lque muscle; as, for example, in the upward and inward direction, the