582 THE BEACI-IIAL PLEXUS. BRACHIAL PLEXUS. This large plexus, from which the nerves of the upper limbs are supplied, is formed by the union of the anterior trunks of the four lower cervical and first dorsal nerves ; and it further receives a fas- ciculus from the lowest of the nerves (fourth), which goes to form the cervical plexus. The plexus extends from the lower part of the neck to the axillary space, and terminates opposite the coracoid process of the scapula in large nerves for the supply of the limb. The manner in which the nerves are disposed in the plexus is liable to some variation, but the following may be regarded as the arrange- ment most frequently met with. The fifth and sixth cervical join together at the outer border of the scalenus medius to form an upper trunk ; similarly the eighth cervical and first dorsal unite together between the scaleni muscles to form a lower trunk, while the seventh cervical remains single, forming a middle trunk. Soon after passing the outer border of the scaleni muscles each pri- mary trunk divides so as to form an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branches of the upper and middle trunks unite together to form what is called the upper or outer cord of the plexus ; the ante- rior branch of the lower trunk forms by itself the lower or inner cord of the plexus, and the posterior branches of all three trunks unite together to form the middle or posterior cord. The cords thus formed lie side by side in the fore part of the plexus, and external to the first part of the axillary vessels, but lower down they are placed, one on the outer side of the axillary artery, one on the inner side, and one behind that vessel, and are continued into the principal nerves for the arm. Varieties.—Instead of three primary trunks, only two are found in a great number of instances. This arises from the frequent union of the seventh nerve with the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth nerves, which takes place at the outer border of the scaleni muscles. The fasciculi which unite to form the posterior cord are generally separated at a higher level than the formation of the two other cords, but they are also frequently given off as low as the clavicle, or even farther down. As regards position, the fifth and sixth nerves or the fifth alone not unfrequently pierce the upper fibres of the anterior scalenus muscle: the fifth nerve has even been found to pass altogether in front of that muscle. (Turner, Nat. Hist. Review, 1S64, and Journ. of Anat., 1872; Henle, Systematic Anatomy, vol. iii.; Lucas, Guy’s Hosp. Reports, 1875, &c.) Branches.—The branches proceeding from the plexus are numerous, and may be conveniently divided into two classes—viz., those that arise above the clavicle, and those that take origin below the bone. BRANCHES ABOVE THE CLAVICLE. Above the clavicle there arise from the trunks of the brachial plexus, the posterior thoracic and suprascapular nerves, a nerve for the rhom- boid muscles, another for the subclavius, irregular branches for the scaleni and longus colli, and a branch to join the phrenic nerve. Small muscular branches.—The branches for the scaleni and longus colli muscles spring in an irregular manner from the lower cervical nerves close to their place of emergence from the vertebral foramina. The branch for the rhomboid muscles arises from the fifth nerve, and is directed backwards to the base of the scapula through the fibres of the middle calenus