MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 198 sets, internal and external, proceeding respectively from the inner and outer divisions of the plexus, the outer supplying the great pectoral muscle, the inner both it and the lesser pectoral. Actions of the muscles passing- between the Trunk and Upper Limb. Considered with reference to the movements of the limb upon the trunk, the upper part of the trapezius, the levator scapulae and the rhomboid muscles' are elevators of the shoulder ; the lower part of the trapezius, the pectoralis minor, and the subclavius are depressors ; the serratus magnus as a whole carries for- ward the base of the scapula, and the rhomboidei draw it back; the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major depress the humerus and cany it towards the middle line, behind cr in front, according as the one or other muscle is in aetion. More particularly, the superior fibres of the trapezius elevate the clavicle ; the middle fibres acting on the acromion have also some elevating action, but tend rather to cany back the scapula towards the spine ; the inferior part of the muscle acting upon the spine of the scapula would of itself depress that bone while it carried it inwards towards the dorsal spines, but acting in concert with the upper two-thirds of the muscle, a rotation is produced in the scapula round a central point, in such a manner that while the whole bone, and more especially the acromion, is raised and carried towards the dorsal spines, the upper angle of the scapula is somewhat depressed and carried inwards, while the lower angle is earned outwards and elevated. The levator anguli scapula? and rhomboidei elevate the superior angle and base of the scapula, thus counteracting in some degree the rotating action of the trapezius. In this manner, when the trapezius, levator, and rhomboid muscles act together, the scapula is raised without rotation, and its base is earned at the same time inwards towards the dorsal spines. The subclavius depresses the clavicle, and may also act as a support to the stemo-clavicular articulation. The pectoralis minor draws the coracoid process downwards and forwards, and tends to throw the lower angle of the scapula backwards. The serratus magnus muscle, by withdrawing the base of the scapula from the spinal column, enables the arm when raised from the shoulder to be still farther out- stretched, as in the movement termed extension in fencing. It comes powerfully into action in all movements of pushing ; it likewise combines with the trapezius in rotating the scapula. In forced inspiration, the scapula being fixed by the muscles which attach it to the trunk posteriorly and superiorly, the serratus magnus assists in dilating the chest by raising and expanding the ribs. The latissimus dorsi carries the elevated arm downwards and backwards, rotat- ing it at the same time inwards, so as to make the palm look backwards, thus accomplishing such a movement as is made by the arm in swimming. By pass- ing over the angle of the scapula it binds that process to the trunk, preventing its projection backwards ; and by being folded round the outer border of the scapula, it limits the projection outwards of the same angle when the arm is raised. The pectoralis major muscle, while it combines with the latissimus dorsi in depressing the humerus from the raised position, opposes that muscle by drawing the limb forwards. It is placed upon the stretch when the arms are thrown backwards, and is most shortened when they are folded across the chest. In the remarkable case of Groux, affected with congenital cleft sternum, when the shoulders were fixed backwards, the action of the great pectoral muscles tended to separate the two segments of the sternum, and increased the space in which the motions of the heart could be observed through the integuments. Considered as acting on the trunk from the upper limb in a fixed condition, these muscles all tend to draw the trunk of the body towards the limb, as in climbing, or other like efforts. The latissimus dorsi muscles, if acting on both sides, carry the body upwards and forwards, as in the use of crutches. The pectorales and latissimus dorsi are also muscles of forced inspiration, tending to raise and expand the ribs, more especially when the shoulders are fixed and the arms are elevated. The upper parts of both trapezii acting on the occipital bone aid the stemo-mastoid muscle in throwing forward the chin ; and if one muscle only acts, it aids in rotating the head.