21 OSSIFICATION OF THE VERTEBIUE. seventh usnally presents a separate osseous nucleus, and small nuclei have also been observed by Meckel in those of the second, fifth, and sixth vertebrae. These epiphyses generally appear from the eighteenth to the twentieth year, and are not wholly united to the rest of the vertebra before the twenty-fifth year. The Atlas & Axis.—The ossification of the atlas and axis differs consider- ably from that of the other vertebras. In the atlas, the body being absent, the anterior arch is formed by a strip of cartilage in which ossification, commencing by one or two centres, only appears in the course of the first year after birth. The neural arch, together with the processes, is formed from two lateral centres cor- responding with those of the other vertebras, and which begin to ossify about the 7th or 8th week. Their union posteriorly occurs in the 3rd year, and is frequently preceded by the formation of a distinct spinal nucleus. Their union with the nucleus of the anterior arch does not take place till the 5th or 6th year. In the axis the arch and processes are formed from two centres corresponding to those of the other vertebras, and appealing about the 7th or 8th week. Ossifi- cation begins in the body about the 6th month, from one or sometimes two centres, occupying the lower part of the common cartilage of the body and odon- toid process. In the upper pai-t of this cartilage, a little later, two collateral centres appear for the odontoid process; these soon unite into one, and become ossified to the body of the axis in the 3rd year. There is frequently also a dis- tinct centre in the apex of the process. (Humphry.) This separate ossification of the odontoid process is important in connection with the view that it is the displaced body of the atlas. Sacral Vertebrae.—Each of the sacral vertebrae presents three primary centres of ossification, one in the body and a pair in the arch. The centres of the bodies Fig. 20. c Fig. 20.—Ossification of the Sacrum. (R. Quain.) A, sacrum of a foetus before six months, seen from the front, showing the ossific centre in the body of each vertebra, from 1 downwards. B, at birth ; 2,2, additional centres for the lateral masses. C, about twenty-three years ; 3, 3, epiphysial plates still visible above and below the first vertebral body, the fissures still remaining between the first and second and the second and third lateral masses ; 4, 4', lateral epiphysial plates. D, upper surface of first sacral vertebra at four or five years, 1, and2, as in A and B. (A.T.) A & B, nearly full size ; C, one-fourth ; D, one-third. of the first three vertebrae appear about the 8th or 9th week, those of the two following vertebrae somewhat later. The laminae begin to ossify about the 6th month, but the time of union with the bodies differs in the different vertebrae ; taking place as early as the 2nd year in the lowest, but not till the 5th or 6th year in the uppermost. In each of the first three vertebrae, and sometimes only of two, the anterior part of the lateral masses on each side is formed from an additional nucleus which appears at the outer margin of the anterior sacral foramen from the 6th to the 8th month. These unite to the bodies later than ie arches. In the case of the two lower vertebrae, the lateral masses arc formed y extension of ossification from the primary lateral nuclei. On the body of