VARIETIES OF TIIE BRACHIAL ARTERY. 403 J arc]1) from which the pronator teres in those cases arises, and which descends to i the inner condyle from the occasional prominence called the supra-condylar I Fig. 264.—Dissection of the Right Arm, show- ing AN EXAMPLE OF HIGH SEPARATION OF THE Radial Artery from the Brachial, and an ENLARGED MEDIAN ARTERY IN THE FORE- 1 arm (from Tiedemann). j 1, on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, points ; to the upper part of the brachial artery ; 2, the *. brachial artery after giving off the radial; 3, the i radial rising in the upper third of the arm and t descending in its usual situation in the fore-ann ; i 3', its superficial volar branch ; 4, the ulnar i artery in its usual course, forming at 5, the j- superficial palmar arch, from which three of the j palmar digital arteries and the princeps pollicis [ take origin ; the radial supplying the branches | to the index finger and one side of the middle i finger; 6, the superior profunda branch of the ! brachial artery ; 7, muscular branches ; 8, anas- i tomotic ; 9, recurrent radial ; 10, anterior inter- g osseous giving an unusually large median branch i which descends over the wrist to unite with the j superficial palmar arch. •j process. Sometimes this disposition occurs { without the development of any bony promi- ■ nence. ej As an extremely rare condition, the artery $ has been found divided into two vessels near g its commencement, the artery being single >} above and below. In a very few cases the three arteries of 1 the fore arm, radial, ulnar, and interosseous, ( have arisen together from the end of the I brachial trunk, at the usual distance below 9 the elbow. High division.—The most frequent change i from the ordinary arrangement of the 1 brachial artery is connected with its division into terminal branches. Out of 481 examples recorded by Richard L Quain from observations made, some on the •J right and some on the left side of the body, the vessel was found in 386 to divide at its 3 usual position, a little below the elbow-joint. • In one case only (and that complicated by 'I another peculiarity, viz., the existence of a tux abcrrans proceeding from the axillary to - the radial), was the place of division lower t. than usual, being between two and three 4 inches lower than the elbow-joint. In 64 ft cases the brachial artery divided above the | usual point, at various heights upwards to I the lower border of the axilla. The branch J prematurely separated from the rest of the I trunk in an early division, is, in the pro- portion of nearly three cases out of four, Fig. 264. d n 2