405 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF BRACHIAL ARTERT. vessels is not the same in the right and left arms In 61 bodies in;whichthe high division existed, it occurred only on one side m 43 ; on both sides, m different positions, in 13 ; and on both sides, in the same position, in the remaining o. Fig. 265 —Aberrant Artert, separating from the BRACHIAL AT THE MIDDLE OF THE ARM, PASSING V ITU the Median Nerve through the Internal inter- muscular Septum, and joining farther dov. the regular Ulnar (from R. Quain). j «, biceps muscle ; b, triceps ; c, c, divided pronator teres ; d, d, d', median nerve, diverted from its usual course, and passing with tlie aberrant artery through the internal intermuscular septum ; e, c, e, ulnar nerve in its usual course ; 1, brachial artery, giving o an aberrant artery at the middle of the arm ; 2, the usua radial artery ; 3, aberrant artery, with the median nerve twining round it, passing at 3, through the internal intermuscular septum ; 3", the same farther down, and communicating at 4' with the first part oE the normal ulnar artery, 4, given off from the brachial. Branches.—It has been already mentioned that the superior profunda may give origin to the pos- terior circumflex artery, and that its own origin is sometimes transferred to a branch arising from the axillary artery. The inferior profunda is likewise occasionally absent, and on that account has not been recog- nised by some anatomists as a regular branch of the brachial artery. The anastomotic artery is sometimes much re- duced in size, and in that case the inferior profunda takes its place behind the humerus. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. Fig. 265. The brachial artery may be application of a ligature easily reached for any part of its 3 the application of a ligature m 3 course. In the middle third of the arm its posi- >: tion on the inside of the biceps muscle, where its a pulsation may be felt, is a sufficient guide for the 4 incision. From the thinness of the parts covering i the artery, however, and the proximity of super- j ficial veins, especially the basilic, the integuments ; and fascia must be divided with caution. Alien 1 the fasci^ has been cut through the median nerve < generally comes into view, as it lies in front of 3 the artery. Occasionally it is found necessary to divide some muscular fibres i before the artery is reached. In the lower third of the arm, the median nerve being placed to the inner a side, the artery is more fully exposed after division of the fascia, but here care 4 is necessary in passing the ligature round the artery, to avoid the venae comites 4 or their communicating cross branches, which cling veiy closely to the artery. From the very frequent occurrence of varieties in the mode of division of the n-achial artery into the vessels derived from it, the surgeon must be prepared for j many deviations from the usual position of the parts, and especially for the j presence of two arteries in place of one in the lower third of the brachial region. I| In such cases the two arteries are most frequently close together and nearly parallel, md it will be easy to tie both vessels, should this be rendered necessary by the aature of the injury for which the operation is performed. But. as will be seen :rom what has previously been said of the abnormal forms of the brachial artery,