336 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF IIERNIJE. those vessels. The deep epigastric artery is close to the inner border ot the internal ring, and the femoral vessels are beneath it, and rather to its inner side. Fig. 233. Fig. 233.—Deeper Dissection of the Abdominal Wall in the Groin. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle having been divided and turned down, the internal oblique is brought into view with the spermatic cord escaping beneath its lower edge ; 1, aponeurosis of the external oblique ; 1', lower part of the same turned down ; 2, internal oblique muscle ; 3, spermatic cord ; 4, saphenous vein. The spermatic cord, which occupies the inguinal canal, is composed of the arteries, veins, lymphatics, nerves, and excretory duct (vas deferens) of the testis, together with a quantity of loose areolar tissue mixed up with those parts. The coverings given from the constituent parts of the abdominal wall to the spermatic cord, besides the integuments, are, from the external ring a prolongation of the intercolumnar or spermatic fascia; the cremasteric muscle and fascia from the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, and a thin, funnel-shaped prolongation of the trans- versalis fascia from the edge of the inner ring (infundibuliform fascia). Lastly, on the inside of the abdominal walls is the peritoneum, and a thin layer of areolar tissue lying between the peritoneum ancl fascia trausver- salis, and usually containing a small quantity of sub-peritoneal fat. Varieties of inguinal hernias.—Two principal forms of inguinal hernia are described which are distinguished according to the part of the canal in which they first enter, as well as by the position which they bear with respect to the epigastric artery. Thus, when the hernia takes the course of the inguinal canal from its commencement, it is named oblique, because of the direction of the canal, or external, from the position which its neck bears with respect to the epigastric artery- On the other hand, when the protruded part, without following the