MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 214 ol the deep flexor tendons, and in the case of the two inner muscles also from the ulnar border of the second and third, and proceeding forwards to the radial sides of the fingers, each is inserted into an expansion of the extensor tendon on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal phalanx ot the finger. Varieties.—The flexor profundus often presents varieties in its origin, deriving fibres from the radius in some instances, a distinct slip from the coronoid process, of the ulnar in others, and more rarely from the inner condyle of the humerus. It is not unfrequently connected with the flexor sublimis, or with the flexor longus pollicis. The distinct slip from the coronoid process constitutes in nume- rous cases an accessory or supplemental muscle which joins very variously one or more of the perforating tendons. The varieties of the lumbricales muscles are of frequent occurrence. Their number is sometimes diminished to three, and in rare instances is increased to five or six. The destination of one or two of them is often changed, and one finger . (most frequently the third or fourth) has sometimes two inserted into it. Lastly, one muscle may be inserted into two fingers. The fourth has been observed to take the place of the fourth perforating tendon of the flexor profundus. The flexor longus pollicis muscle, placed side by side with the flexor profundus digitorum, arises from the anterior grooved surface of the radius from the oblique line to the edge of the pronator quadratus; it arises also from the adjacent part of the interosseous ligament, and sometimes by a rounded fleshy and tendinous slip, distinct from the rest of the muscle, from the inner part of the coronoid process. The muscle ends in a tendon which passes behind the annular ligament of the wrist close to the trapezium, turns outwards between the two heads of the flexor brevis and between the sesamoid bones, and, entering a canal similar to those of the other flexor tendons, is finally inserted into the base of the second phalanx of the thumb. Varieties.—A very common variety in this muscle (in two-fiftbs of subjects dissected by Macalister) is tbe existence of a second or accessory tendon for tlie thumb : this may arise from the flexor sublimis, the coronoid process, or some- times as far up as the internal condyle. The flexor longus pollicis is also some-- I times connected by a slip with the flexor sublimis or profundus, or the pronator teres. A tendon of insertion into the index finger has also been observed. The pronator quadratus, placed close to the bones behind the last two muscles, arises from the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulnar for about two inches above its carpal extremity; its fibres cross the lower part of the forearm, some transversely and others obliquely, and they are inserted for an equal distance into the fore part of the radius. Varieties.—The pronator quadratus is subject to varieties, chiefly as follows 1, It may be entirely absent, but this is rare ; 2, it is subdivided into two layers, or occasionally into three; 3, it extends farther upwards on the bones of the forearm than usual: 4, it is prolonged downwards on the carpus, in some cases as a radio-carpal, and in others as an ulno-carpal muscle (Macalister, Journ. of Anat., vol. v., W. Gruber, loc. cit.). Nerves.—The muscles of the pronator and flexor group receive their nerves in great part from the median ; only one muscle being wholly supplied from the ulnar nerve. The branches from the median are distributed to the muscles in two groups, one to the superficial and another to the deep set. From these the anterior interosseous is a distinct branch, which accompanies the anterior inter- osseous vessels in front of the interosseous ligament, and ends in the pronator