105 the pelvis. interval between the sacrum and coccyx and the ischium on each side is bridged over in the recent state by the sacro-sciatic ligaments, which therefore assist in bounding the outlet of the pelvis Position of the Pelvis.—In the erect attitude of the body, the pelvis is so inclined that the plane of the brim of the true pelvis forms In anrie with the horizontal, which varies in different individuals from Fig. 92. Figs. 92 & 93. Sketches of the Male and Female Pelvis as seen from above AND IN FRONT. (A. T. ) GO0to G5°. Thebase of the sacrum -was found by Niigelc in a large number of well-formed female bodies to be about 3| inches above the upper margin of the symphysis pubis ; the level of the top of the coccyx he found varying from 22 lines above the apex of the pubic arch to 9 lines below the same point, and on an average to be 7 or 8 lines above it (Niigele, “Das weibliche Becken,” &c., Carlsruhe, 1825 ; Wood, article“ Pelvis” in the Cyclopedia of Anatomy and Physiology). The pelvic aspect of the sacrum, near its base, looks much more down- wards than forwards, hence the sacrum appears at first sight to occupy the position of the keystone of an arch ; but being in reality broader at its pelvic than on its dorsal aspect, it is a keystone inverted, or having its broad end lowest, and is supported in its place chiefly by cartilage and ligaments, but also to a slight extent by the inward projection of the anterior margin of the iliac articular surface. The line of pressure of the weight of the body on the sacrum is directed downwards towards the symphysis pubis, and the resistance of the head of the thighbone on each side is directed upwards and inwards. Fig. 93. In fig. 90 of the fe- male pelvis the lines are shown in which the di- mensions of the pelvis are usually measured at the brim. a, p, antero-posterior or conjugate diameter ; t, r, transverse or widest diameter; o, b, o, b, oblique diameters. In the original speci- mens, which were se- lected as giving the full average dimensions, the following were the mea- surements in inches :— Antero-posterior dia- meter — female, 44 ; male, 4. Transverse diameter—female 51 ; male, 44. Oblique dia- meter—female, 5 ; male, 4b