THE RIBS. and indented at its lower part, as occurs especially from the pressure of the cobbler’s last. Two small nodules of bone, ossa suprastcrnalta, have been found in some rare cases at the sides of the incisura close to the clavicular notches, sometimes being- united by bone, at others by ligament to the sternum. (Breschet, “ Annales dcs Sciences Naturelles,” 2nd series, v. 10, p. 91 ; and Luschka, “ Die Halsrippen und die Ossa suprastemalia,” Vienna, 1859.) Their position is indicated by the asterisks (**) in figure 26, E. They derive an additional interest from the occur- rence of suprasternal bones in some animals. The ribs (cosfce), twelve in number on each side, constitute a series of arched and highly elastic bones, which extend outwards and forwards from the vertebral column, and form the lateral walls of the thorax. Their anterior extremities give attachment to cartilaginous prolonga- tions—the costal cartilages, the first seven pairs of which pass forward Rig. 23.—Thk First, Sixth, and Twelfth Ribs of the Right Side. (A. T.) ^ A, the sixth seen from above and the outer side; B, the same rib viewed from below and within ; C, the first rib viewed from above and without ; D, the twelfth rib viewed from above and within. 1 the head in C & D, the inter-vertebral ridge in B ; * * the costo-central facets ; 2, the neck ; 3, the tubercle, in B presenting the rough tubercle and the smooth facet for articulation with the transverse process ; 4, the lower border with the ridge and sub- costal groove ; 5, the upper border; 6, the oval pit for the attachment of° the costal cartilage ; 7, in the first rib, C, the scalene tubercle or spine, and near it the smooth groove for the subclavian artery. to the sternum. On this account the first seven pairs of ribs are called sternal, and the remaining five pairs asternal ribs. Of these asternal ribs each of the upper three has its cartilage attached along its superior border to the cartilage of the rib above it, while the last two bcim>- entirely free from such attachment are called floating ribs. General characters of the ribs.—These are best marked in the ms near the middle of the series. The posterior extremity is thick- ened, and is termed the head or capitulum; it presents a superior and an inferior oblique articular surface for articulation with the bodies of THE RIBS. s