341 FEMORAL HERNI2E. is found to be divided into three compartments, by fibrous septa; the outer compartment containing the femoral aitciy, the middle, the Fig. 239.—The Groin of the Right Side dissected so as to display the Deep Femoral Arch. 1, the outer part of the femoral arch ; 1', part of the tendon of the external oblique muscle, with external inguinal ring, projecting through which is seen a portion of the sper- matic cord cut; 2, the femoral arch at its insertion into the spine of the pubis, and to the outer side the libres of Gunberaat s ligament; o, the outer part of the femoral sheath ; 4, the spermatic cord ; 5, the deep femoral arch—its inner end, where it is fixed to the pubis; 6, internal oblique muscle ; 7, transversalis ; below this the transversalis fascia continued into the femoral sheath under the deep femoral arch ; 8, con- joined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles ; 9, a band of tendinous fibres directed upwards behind the external abdominal ring. Fig. 239. femoral vein, and the inner being occupied merely by lymphatic vessels, a gland, and some fat. This inner compartment is about half an inch long, and from its being the passage through which the hernia descends, has-been called the femoral or crural canal. The upper extremity of : the canal presents a rounded aperture towards the cavity of the j abdomen, usually of sufficient size to admit the point of the forefinger ; i its size, however, varies in different persons, and it is larger in the ! female than in the male. This aperture is called the femoral ring, and . is covered when viewed from the inside by peritoneum, and beneath ! that by the subperitoneal connective tissue, which here forms the crural . septum (Cloquet). On three sides the ring is bounded by very un- ! yielding structures. In front are the femoral arches, the superficial being formed by Poupart’s ligament, and the deep by a strong bundle it of fibres, which, springing from the under surface of Poupart’s ligament outside the femoral vessels, extends across the forepart of the femoral !j sheath and widening at its inner end, is fixed to the pectineal line behind Gimbernat’s ligament. Behind the ring is the hip-bone covered : by the pectineus muscle and the pubic layer of the fascia lata ; on the outer side lies the external iliac vein, but covered with its sheath ; and on the inner side are several layers of fibrous structure connected with c the pectineal line—namely, Gimbernat’s ligament, the conjoined tendon of the two deeper abdominal muscles, and the fascia transversalis, with the deep femoral arch. The last-mentioned structures—those bounding u the ring at the inner side—present respectively a more or less sharp r margin towards the opening. a _ Relations to blood-vessels.—Besides the femoral vein, the posi- < tion of which has been already stated, the epigastric artery is closely G connected with the ring, lying above its outer side. It not unfre- ouently happens that an aberrant obturator artery descends into the