142 ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. fibres are seen on removing by horizontal section a portion of the rib and transverse process, and forcibly drawing the one from the other. Fig- 128. Fig. 128.—IIorizontai. Section op a Dorsad Vertebra, with THE ADJACENT PORTIONS OF TWO Ribs. § 1, the rib ; 2, transverse pro- cess ; 3, anterior costo-central liga- ment ; 5, posterior costo-transverse ligament; 6, interosseous or middle costo-transverse ligament. The superior costo- transverse ligament, an- terior or tony, consists of fasciculi of fibres, passing from the neck of the rib obliquely upwards and outwards to the lower margin of the transverse process next above it. It does not exist in the articulation of the first rib. There are no synovial joints, but only posterior costo-transverse ligaments, between the two lowest ribs and the transverse processes. The costo-sternal articulations, situated between the anterior ■extremities of the cartilages of the sternal ribs, and the corresponding fossae in the margins of the sternum, consist of small synovial capsules covered and supported by anterior, posterior, upper and lower ligaments. The anterior ligamentous fibres are thin, scattered, and radiated, passing from the extremity of the cartilage to the anterior surface of the sternum, where they interlace with those of the opposite side, and are blended with the aponeurosis of the pectoralis major muscle ; the posterior fibres are similarly disposed, but not so thick or numerous, and connect the thoracic surfaces of the same parts ; the upper and lower ligamentous fibres are inconsiderable, and are placed above and below the joint. Synovial cavities are interposed between the end of the cartilage of each true rib (excepting the first) and the sternum, that -of the seventh is single ; the others are usually divided into an upper and lower cavity by interarticular fibres attached to the end of the cartilage and to the sternum. The cartilage of the first rib is almost always directly united to the sternum. A thin fasciculus of fibres connecting the cartilage of the seventh rib, and sometimes likewise that of the sixth, with the xiphoid car- tilage, is called the costo-xiphoid ligament. Articulation of the cartilages one with another.—The cartilages of some of the ribs, viz., from the sixth to the ninth, have a part of their adjacent borders smoothed into articular surfaces, which are held in connection by ligamentous fibres, lined by synovial membranes. Some of the articular surfaces are occasionally found to be wanting. Connection of the ribs with their cartilages.—The external extremities of the cartilages are fixed into the oval depressions on the ends of the ribs, and the union receives support from the periosteum. Ligaments of the sternum.—The manubrium, body, and xiphoid process of the sternum, so long as they are not united by bone, are connected by intervening cartilage, and by anterior and posterior liga- ments, which have chiefly a longitudinal direction. The whole sternum