C02 THE LUMBAR NERVES. second lumbar nerve, but receives also a few fibres from the con- necting cord between that and the first nerve. The nerve descends obliquely through the psoas muscle, and afterwards on its fore part, towards Poupart’s ligament, dividing at a variable height into an internal or genital, and an external or crural branch. It often bifurcates close to its origin from the plexus, in which case its two branches perforate the psoas muscle in different places. («) The genital branch (external spermatic, Schmidt) lies upon or near the ex- ternal iliac artery, and sends filaments along that vessel; then perforating the transversalis fascia, it passes through the inguinal canal with the spermatic cord, and is lost upon the cremaster muscle. In the female it accompanies the round ligament of the uterus. (b) The crural branch (lumbo-inguinal nerve, Schmidt) descends upon the psoas muscle beneath Poupart’s ligament into the thigh. Immediately below that ligament, and at the outer side of the femoral artery, it pierces the fascia lata, and supplies the skin on the upper part of the thigh, communicating with the middle cutaneous branch of the anterior crural nerve. Whilst it is passing beneath Poupart’s ligament, some filaments are prolonged from this nerve on the femoral artery. It is stated by Schmidt, that when the crural branch of the genito-cmral nerve is large, and commences near the plexus, he has observed it to give a muscular branch to the lower border of the internal oblique and transver- salis muscles. External cutaneous nerve. This nerve, commencing from the loop formed between the second and third lumbar nerves, on emerging from the outer border of the psoas muscle, crosses the iliacus muscle below the ilio-inguinal nerve, and passing beneath Poupart’s ligament, reaches the thigh beneath the anterior superior iliac spine, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch distributed to the integument of the outer side of the hip and thigh. (a) The posterior branch perforates the fascia lata and subdivides into two or three others, which turn backwards and supply the skin upon the outer surface of the limb, from the upper border of the hip-bone nearly to the middle of the thigh. The highest among them are crossed by the cutaneous branches from the last dorsal nerve. (b) An anterior branch, the continuation of the nerve, is at first contained in a sheath or canal formed in the substance of the fascia lata ; but, about four inches below Poupart’s ligament, it enters the subcutaneous fatty tissue, and is distri- buted along the outer part of the front of the thigh, ending near the knee. The principal offsets spring from its outer side. In some cases, this branch reaches quite down to the knee, and communicates there witli the internal saphenous nerve. Obturator nerve. The obturator nerve is distributed to the adductor muscles of the thigh, and to the hip and knee-joints. It arises from the lumbar plexus by two roots, one from the third and the other from the fourth lumbar nerve. Having emerged from the inner border of the psoas muscle, opposite to the brim of the pelvis, it runs along the side of the pelvic cavity, above the obturator vessels, as far as the opening in the upper part of the thyroid foramen, through which it escapes from the pelvis into the thigh. Here it immediately divides into an