II SPHENOID BONE. separated from it by a thin lamella, the processus cochlear if or mis, is a small passage which lodges the tensor tympani muscle. The posterior border articulates with the basilar process of the occipital bone, and bounds the foramen lacerum posterius. Small Foramina.—The opening of the aqneductus vcstibuli is a narrow fissure, covered by a depressed scale of bone, and situated on the posterior surface of the petrous bone, about three lines behind the internal auditory meatus ; that of the aqneductus cochlea; is a small foramen, beginning in a three-sided wider depression in the posterior margin, directly below the internal auditory meatus. In the plate between the jugular fossa and the carotid canal is the foramen by which the nerve of Jacobson passes to the tympanum. In the ascending part of the carotid canal is the minute foramen for the tympanic branch of the carotid plexus. In the jugular fossa are a groove and foramen for the auricular branch of the vagus nerve ; and parallel to the hiatus Fallopii, close to the canal for the tensor tympani muscle, are a groove and foramen for the small superficial petrosal nerve. The description of the small bones of the ear with the tympanum and internal ear, will be found in the chapter on the Organs of the Senses. THE SPHENOID BONE. The sphenoid, or wedge-shaped bone, is placed across the base of the skull, near its middle. It enters into the formation of the cavity of the cranium, the orbits, and the posterior nares. It is of very irregular shape, and consists of a central part or body, a pair of lateral expan- Fig. 36. Fig. 36.—The Sphenoid Bone from above and behind. (A. T.) g . b tbe basilar surface, sawn separate from the occipital bone ; 2, Dorsum 561102 or inclined surface of the body terminating superiorly in the two posterior clinoid processes • o, is placed on the olivary eminence or process, and between it and 2 is the sella turcioa ’ or pituitary fossa ; in front of 3 is the transverse groove of the optic commissure • 4 the •side of the body with the sigmoid groove of the internal carotid artery and cavernous sinus ; 5, the lesser wing ; x, the anterior clinoid process ; 6, the ethmoid spine • 7 the cerebral surface of the greater wing ; 8, the upper angle of the greater wing, which • dl^tes with the parietal bone ; 9, the spinous process ; 10, the external, and 11 the tendon1 of tC,lyg?ld ljrocess 5 H. 1S placed opposite the hamular process and groove for the of.tl,e tens°r palati muscle ; 12, the optic foramen, 13, the sphenoidal fissure oi- forampn ala?erum orbdal.e ; 14, the foramen rotund urn ; 15, the foramen ovale ; 16 the foramen. 'pm°SUm ’ 17’ “ placed above tbe posterior opening of the pterygoid or Vidian