Fig. 306. ternal Veins of the Cranium 432 VEINS OP TIIE HEAD AND NECK. Fig. 306.—Sketch of the In- the dura mater converge to a common point, which corresponds with the internal occipital protuberance, and is called the confluence of tlxe sinuses or torcular Herophili. Tire form of the torcular is very irregular. Five or six apertures open into it: viz., one from the longi- tudinal, and one from the straight sinus ; two from the right and left lateral smuscs ; and one or two from the posterior occipital sinuses. and Nose. $ a, torcular Herophili; l, su- perior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater ; c, inferior longitudinal sinus ; d, straight sinus; e, in- ternal veins of the brain, or veins of Gralen ; g, occipital sinus ; h, superior petrosal sinus ; i, inferior petrosal sinus ; h, nasal veins on the septum ; some of which superiorly form the commencement of the superior longitudinal sinus, and others lower down pass out by the spheno-palatine foramen. The superior longitu- dinal sinus (s. falciformis superior), commencing at the crista galli, extends from before backwards, in the upper border of the falx cerebri, gradually increasing in size as it proceeds. It is three-sided, and is crossed obliquely at the inferior angle by several bands, the chorclce Willis it. The veins from the cerebral surface open into this sinus chiefly towards the back part; and in such a way that the apertures of the greater number of them are directed from behind forwards, contrary to the direction of the current within it. The longitudinal sinus communicates with the veins on the out- side of the occipital bone, by a branch (one of the “ emissary veins,” Santorini) which passes through a hole in the parietal bone. The inferior longitudinal sinus (s. falciformis inferior) is very small, and has so much of a cylindrical form, that it is sometimes named inferior longitudinal vein. Placed in the inferior concave border of the falx cerebri, it riuis from before backwards, and opens into the straight sinus on reaching the anterior margin of the tentorium cere- belli. It receives branches from the surface of the falx cerebri, and sometimes from the flat surface of the hemispheres. . The straight sinus (s. tentorii) runs backwards in the base of the falx cerebri, gradually widening as it approaches the torcular Herophili, in which it terminates. Besides the inferior longitudinal sinus, the venae Galeni and the superior veins of the cerebellum open into it. The lateral sinuses (s. transversi) are of considerable size. Their direction conforms to that of the groove marked along the inner sur- face of the occipital and other bones, and extending from opposite the internal occipital protuberance to the foramen jugulare. The sinus of the right side is usually larger than that of the left ; both commence at the torcular Herophili, and'terminate in the jugular veins. The lateral sinuses receive the blood transmitted from both the longitudinal siuuses,