COMPARISON OF SHOULDER AND PELVIC GIRDLES. 123. Homological Comparison of Upper and Lower Limbs. — A certain, anatomical correspondence between tlie upper and lower limbs, which is apparent to common observation, is admitted in even a fuller degree by most scientific- anatomists as the result of a careful comparison of tlie form, structure, and relations of their bones, as well as of then- other parts. But very different views have been taken of the nature and extent of the comparison which may be made between them. Thus Vicq d'Azyr compared the bones of the upper limb of one side of the body to the bones of the lower limb of the other ; and Bourgery and Cruveilhier regarded the upper end of the tibia as homologous with that of the ulna, while they compare its lower end to that of the radius. But all sucli fanciful views have now yielded to the fuller appreciation of homologicaL correspondence which has resulted from a more careful comparison of structure in a wide series of animals, and the study of their transformations in embryonic development; and thus the general conclusion has been formed, that the thoracic- and pelvic limbs are constructed on the same general type in man and animals, both as regards the attaching girdles of the shoulder and pelvis, and in the three several sections of which each limb is composed. There are, however, certain modifications of that general plan, leading to considerable differences in. the form, size, and number of the individual parts in different animals, which appear to be in a great measure related to the different uses to which the upper and lower limbs are respectively applied ; as, for example, in the upper limb of man, the breadth of the shoulders, caused by the interposition of the clavicle, the greater extent of motion in the shoulder joint, the eversion of the humerus, and the forward flexed attitude of the elbow-joint, the arrangements for pro- nation and supination by rotation of the radius and hand, and the opposability of the thumb, all have reference to the freedom, versatility, and precision of the movements of the upper limb as an organ of prehension and touch : while in the lower limb, the comparatively fixed condition and arched form of the pelvic girdle, the greater strength of the bones, the close-fitting of the hip-joint, the inversion of the femur, the backward flexure of the knee-joint, the arched form of the foot, and non-opposability of the great toe, have all manifest relation to the support of the trunk and pelvis, and their movements upon the lower limbs. In the lower animals, greater modifications in the form of both limbs are to be observed, obviously adapted to their different functions in each case. Without attempting to follow out this subject by any detailed reference to- comparative anatomy or development, it may be useful to state here shortly the more probable conclusions which have been formed by the most recent inquirers- with respect to the homological correspondence of the several parts of the upper and lower limbs.* Shoulder and Pelvic Girdles. With respect to the attaching bones of the two limbs, it is generally held that the blade of tlie scapula corresponds with the ilium, each of them forming the dorsal section of their respective arches ; and the greatest difference between them consisting in the scapula being entirely free from bony articulation with the vertebral column, and capable therefore of considerable motion, while the ilium is firmly jointed to the lateral mass of the : sacrum. The ventral part of the shoulder-girdle, completed by the articulation of the clavicles with the sternum, presents no doubt at first sight some similarity to the meeting of the ossa pubis at the symphysis ; and thus at one time the clavicle and the pubis were looked upon as homologous bones. But the fuller knowledge of comparative anatomy has more recently led to the adoption of a ■ different view, according to which it appears more probable that the pubis repre- sents rather the epicoracoid bone of the Monotremata and of Reptiles, while, as before believed, the coracoid process of man. originally separate, and typically a 1 distinct bone, is represented in the pelvic girdle by the ischium. Thus. then, it < appears that the clavicle is not repeated in the lower limb girdle; and in the i p ace of the very imperfect coracoid process of man and most mammals, there U ^ *3 r*s|‘t to mention that, while in the comparison here given most British and A)Can authors coincide, opinions widely different from these are held by several com- Wyman° ^‘?'^ini8ts of distinction in America, among whom may be mentioned Agassiz,