241 tiie adductor muscles. I expanded portion into the inner side of the tibia, on the same plane , with but higher than the semitendinosus, and under the expanded 1 tendon of the sartorius. Relations. This thin muscle is covered by the fascia lata, except in a small part inferiorly, where it is overlapped by the sartorius ; the deep surface rests i against the adductor brevis, adductor magnus, semimembranosus, and the in- l tcmal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. A bursa separates it from that ( ligament. The pectineus muscle, flat and somewhat quadrangular, arises from r the pectineal line, and from the surface of bone in front of it, between the iliopectineal eminence and the pubic spine. Inclining outwards and , backwards as it descends, it is inserted by a flat tendon into the femur : behind the small trochanter, and into the upper part of the line which i connects the linea aspera of the femur with that prominence. Relations.—The pectineus is in contact, by its anterior surface, with the fascia : lata and the femoral vessels ; by the posterior surface, with the obturator vessels i and nerve, and the external obturator and adductor brevis muscles. By the ■; outer border it touches the psoas magnus ; by the inner border, the adductor ij longus. Varieties.—The pectineus is frequently divided into two parts, which are ,1 separate superiorly and have their nerves from different sources, viz., the inner i from the obturator and the outer from the anterior crural nerve. This division t occurs naturally in many animals. The adductor longus, a flat triangular muscle, internal to the pcc- ii tineus, and lying in the same plane, arises by a short tendon from the ! body of the pubes below the crest and near the angle, and is inserted ’. into the inner margin of the linea aspera between the vastus internus and the adductor magnus. Relations.—This muscle is covered by the fascia lata, the sartorius, and the • femoral vessels ; the posterior surface rests superiorly on the adductor brevis, and C inferiorly on the adductor magnus. Externally it is separated by a small interval ii from the pectineus, and internally it is in apposition with the gracilis. It forms & the inner boundary of Scarpa’s triangle, < The adductor brevis, thick above and broad below, arises by a « narrow origin, about two inches deep, in contact with that of the gracilis, from the anterior surface of the body, and the descending ramus of the pubes ; directed obliquely backwards and outwards, it is inserted by a flat tendon into the whole of the oblique line leading from the I; small trochanter of the femur to the linea aspera, immediately behind j the insertion of the pectineus. ft Relations. The adductor brevis is concealed at its origin by the adductor ongus and at its insertion in part by the pectineus; it is crossed by the super- J C1~ division of the obturator nerve, and by the profunda femoris artery; it i °n ^1G ac^uctor magnus and deep division of the obturator nerve, and by i s cep surface is in contact superiorly with the obturator extemus, the internal circumflex artery passing between. « ,!1C adductor magnus muscle arises from the lower part of the body 16 external to the origin of the adductor brevis, from the c ,°, tae and ischium, and from the tuberosity of the ischium „n je P1!.,10 arch- . The muscular fibres diverge from their origin, thp rmV i ^ie r^s a f'atL fr°ra their central pivot: those from vol T’ S l0r*'er ^ian rest5 pass transversely outwards, and arc a