234 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. of which they may be said to form a considerable portion. The muscle consists of numerous short fibres extending obliquely between two aponeurotic expansions, which are continued upwards and downwards on the opposite sides of the muscle for three fourths of its length from the superior and inferior tendons. Relations.—The inferior tendon of the semimembranosus muscle is separated from the tendon of the inner head of the gastrocnemius by a large bursa. The muscle rests on the adductor magnus. The hamstring muscles descend in contact with one another, being bound down by the fascia lata ; but interiorly they diverge, the biceps passing to the outside, and the semimembranosus and semitendinosus to the inner side of the knee, forming the superior borders of a diamond-shaped hollow at the back of the knee —the popliteal space. The great sciatic nerve is concealed by them while they are in contact, and its principal division, the internal popliteal, lies in contact with the semimembranosus muscle in the popliteal space, while the smaller or external popliteal division runs along the edge of the biceps muscle. Varieties.—The semimembranosus muscle has been found absent; again it has been found double, or it may have its origin for the most part from the great sciatic ligament. Nerves.-—The hamstring muscles are all supplied with branches from the great sciatic nerve. Actions.—The hamstring muscles extend the hip and flex the knee. It is to be observed, however, that in ordinary circumstances these movements take place together, and that therefore it is by the occurrence of simultaneous action of other muscles that it is determined whether flexion of the one or extension of the other will occur. The short head of the biceps is the only flexor of the knee which passes over that joint alone. The action of the whole muscle produces external rotation of the leg. ANTERIOR MUSCLES OP THE THIGH. The ILIO-PSOAS muscle, the great flexor of the hip-joint, is divisible into two parts, a broad outer part, the iliacus, and an elongated inner part, the psoas magnus, which are inserted together into the small trochanter. The iliacus muscle arises from the iliac fossa of the innominate bone, and from the anterior border of the same, likewise from the base of the sacrum, the ilio-lumbar ligament, and the capsule of the hip- joint. Its fibres converging, as they pass downwards and inwards, are inserted for the most part into the tendon of the psoas muscle ; while some are prolonged to a special triangular impression on the upper part of the femur, in front of and below the small trochanter. Relations.—Above Poupart's'ligament this muscle is covered by the iliac fascia, the external iliac artery, the ilio-inguinal and external cutaneous nerves. Outside the pelvis it lies on the capsule of the hip-joint; in front of it lie the anterior crural nerves; at its outer border are the origins of the sartorius and rectus femoris muscles, and at its inner is the psoas. Variety.—The chief variety consists in the presence of the iliacus minor or ilio-capsularis, a small detached portion of the iliacus major. It arises from the anterior inferior spine of the ilium, and is inserted into the anterior intertro- chanteric line of the femur. It is closely united to the front of the capsule o the hip-joint. The psoas magnus muscle arises by five fleshy slips from the anterioi surface and lower margin of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrm near their bases ; also from the bodies of the last dorsal ana ,1