80 BONES OF THE HEAD. been given to this subject, on the Continent by Caras, V. Baer, R. Wagner \ n chow, Welcher, Huschke, Lucaj and others, and in this country by Busk, Huxley, Cl eland, and Barnard Davies. From the researches of these authors the general conclusion may be drawn, that external measurements alone are insuffi- cient to supply all the information required as to the form and relations of the parts of the skull, and that it is necessary to combine with them numerous measurements which can only be made in the skull opened by a mesial vertical section. The observations of Virchow, Huxley, and Cleland have also shown the Big. 67. Fig. 68. Fig. 67.—Skull op European tending towards the Brachycephalic Form (Carpenter), Fig. 68.—Strongly Dolichocephalic Skull op European (Carpenter). | importance which is to be attached to the relations of the basi-cranial axis as a very uniform standard of reference for comparing the direction and dimensions of other parts. Without going into farther detail here, it may be mentioned that the angle formed by the basicranial axis with the line of the cribrethmoid plate, the “ ethmo-cranial ” angle of Huxley, and nearly the “ saddle-angle ” of Virchow, is about 140° in British and Western European skulls, diminishing in the highest forms, and opening out in the lower, till in quadrupeds the two lines ran almost into one ; and that the “ premaxillary ” angle of Huxley, between the anterior extremity of the basicranial axis and the front of the incisor ridge of the upper jaw, gives a reliable estimate of the degree of facial projection; varying in diffe- rent skulls from 83° to 110°, so that the angle above 96° is indicative of progna- thism, below it of orthognathism. (On the foregoing subject consult, in addition to the works of Camper, Cuvier, Blumenbach. Lawrence, Carpenter, and other authors quoted, the following : viz., Transl. of the Memoir of Retzius in the Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Review, 1860 ; Owen, in Trans. Zool. Soc., vol. iv., 1851 ; Busk’s papers in Trans. Ethnol. Soc. Lond., vol. i., 1861, and Joum. of Anthrop. Inst., vol. iii.; Huxley’s Lect. “ Man’s Place in Nature,” and in Joum. of Anat. and Physiol., vols. i. and ii.; Thumam and Davies, “Crania Britannica,” and Davies, “ Tliesanras Craniorum,” 1867 ; Cleland’s Memoir in Philos. Trans., 1869; as also Virchow, in his work on the “ Development of the Cranial Basis,” 1857, and in Germ. Quart. Mag., Nov. 1871 ; Huschke, Schadel, Him, and Seele, Sec., 1854; and Lucae, Zur Morphol. der Rassenschadel, 1861-64.) IV. Irregularities of Form.—The most frequent irregularity in the form of the skull is want of symmetry. This sometimes occurs in a marked degree, and there is probably no skull perfectly symmetrical. The condition which has been ob- served to co-exist most frequently with irregular forms of skull is synostosis, or premature obliteration of certain of the sutures. The cranial bones increase in size principally at their margins ; and when a suture is prematurely obliterated the growth of the skull in the direction at right angles to the line of suture may be supposed to be checked, and increased growth in other directions may take place to supply the defect: but this condition is not constant (see Huxley, loc cit ; Virchow, “ Gesammelte Abhandlungen,” 1856; J. Barnard Davies,