tiie vertebral articulations. 133 the manner of a wheel rolling on the ground, this movement being usually accompanied by a certain amount of gliding. Circumduction is the movement performed when the shaft of a long bone or a part of a limb describes a cone, the apex of which is placed in the joint at or near one extremity of the bone, while the sides and base of the cone are described by the rest of the moving part. Rotation signifies movement of a bone round its axis without any great change of situation. Gliding is applied to that kind of movement in which the surfaces of adjacent bones are displaced without any accompanying angular or rotatory motion, as in the movement of flat surfaces over each other in some of the carpal and tarsal articulations, or in the movement of advance and retreat of the lower jaw. In the various joints provided with synovial cavities, the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones are so formed as usually to be in close apposition or contact; but in certain positions they are not entirely so. and there are even instances in which the separation of the surfaces must be considerable, as in the case of the patella, in some positions of the knee. In these cases the vacuity is filled up by folds of the synovial membrane, or by fatty processes connected with it. ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. ARTICULATIONS OP THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The moveable vertebrae are connected together by elastic discs inter- posed between the bodies ; by synovial joints between the articulating processes ; and by ligaments. The intervertebral discs are plates of composite structure placed between the bodies of the vertebrae from the axis to the sacrum. Each is composed of a fibro-laminar part externally, and of a pulpy substance in the centre. Fig. 116.—A Lumbar Vertebra, seen from Fig. 116. ABOVE, WITH PART OF THE INTERVERTEBRAL Disc adhering to the body. A 1, 1, the concentric arrangement of the fibrous laminae ; 2, the central soft cartilaginous or gelatinous substance. The laminar part forms more than half of the mass, and consists of con- centric laminae of fibro-cartilage and fibrous tissue alternating one with another. These laminae are not cpiite vertical, for if a vertical section of a disc be made, a certain number of the layers nearest to the circumference of the disc will be seen bulging outwards, while others situated more deeply and less closely compacted together arc convex towards the centre; and when the spine is bent in any direction, the curves of the different layers are augmented on the side towards which the column is inclined. The individual layers consist chiefly of fibres extending oblicpiely between the vertebrae and firmly