225 ACTION OF MUSCLES OF FOREARM AND HAND. the fingers is either completed or is opposed by any resistance, as when the over-extended hand is pressed against a surface in pushing, or in the support of the body. Extension of the wrist, in a similar manner, is accomplished not only by the three muscles specially devoted to that fimetion, but also by the extensors of the fingers. To ensure the efficient action of the long extensor and flexor muscles of the fingers it is necessary that there should be simultaneous action of the flexors and extensors of the wrist respectively ; for the wrist-joint must be fixed backwards by its extensors in order that the long flexors of the fingers may act, and the wrist must be fixed forwards by its flexors in order that the long extensors may act upon the fingers. The,flexor communis digitorum sublimis and the flexor profundus bend respec- tively the second and the third phalanges of the fingers, while the extensor com- munis extends the first phalanx. The four lumbricales, on the other hand, and the seven interossei muscles have a double action, in consequence of their insertion into the lateral expansions of the extensor tendons, and of some of the interossei directly into the first phalanges. This action consists first, in the flexion of the fingers at the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, and second, in extension of the second and third phalanges. The lumbricales and interossei, therefore, are antago- nists to both the long flexors and to the long extensor. This partial and combined action of the long and short muscles upon the fingers, of which the movements made in forming the hair-stroke in writing may be taken as an example, has been well known for a considerable time, especially as regards the lumbricales, but it has recently been confirmed and elucidated as regards the interossei by the electro-physiological experiments and pathological observations of Duchenne, whose interesting work as quotod below,* may be advantageously consulted on this and other muscular movements. With respect to the interossei, it is further to be observed that, besides being flexors of the first and extensors of the second and third phalanges in the manner previously stated, they severally exercise an abducting or adducting action on certain fingers, or direct them away from or towards the middle line of the hand, according to the places of their respective insertions : and thus the four dorsal interossei are abductors of the index, middle and ring fingers, and the three palmar interossei are adductors of the index, fourth and fifth fingers respectively. When the thumb is opposed to the other fingers, the metacarpal bone is drawn forwards, chiefly by the opponent, the adductor, and the flexor brevis muscles. The precise action of the abductor is to draw the thumb forwards. The extensor ossis metacarpi is entirely an abductor, as indicated by the name given to it by Albinus. The extensor primi inter nod ii likewise is an abdnetor as well as an extensor of the first phalanx. The extensor secundi internodii extends both phalanges and also draws the metacarpal bone backwards. The,add actor and the inner fibres of the flexor brevis adduct the thumb. A combination of the actions of the different muscles in succession produces circumduction. Tire little finger is withdrawn from the others by its abductor, as the ring- finger is withdrawn from the middle finger by the fourth dorsal interosseous muscle ; and the abductor acting with the long flexors, likewise assists the flexor brevis in keeping the first phalanx firmly down in grasping. While the palmaris long us has the effect of tightening the palmar fascia, the pulmaris brevis assists in deepening the hollow of the hand by raising the inte- gument on the inner side, so as to increase the hypothenar prominence. * Dr. D. B. Duchenne, “ Physiologie des Mouvements, &c.,” Paris, 1867. VOL. i. Q