117 THE PHALANGES. uected with only three bones, its facet for articulation with the external cuneiform being absent. The tarsal extremity of the first metatarsal bone presents a slightly concave articular surface, and is broad below and narrow above. That of the fifth presents externally a large rough tuberosity which projects beyond the other bones at the outer side ot the foot ; and the line of its articulation with the cuboid bone is so oblique that, if prolonged inwards, it would reach the digital end of the first metatarsal bone. The tarsal ends of the remaining three bones are broad and flat above, rough and narrower below, and by their wedge- like form assist in producing the transverse arch of the foot. The shafts present in the greater part of their extent. a prominent border looking upwards, which in the middle three projects between the dorsal interosseous muscles on each side. The heads, or distal ends are smaller than the proximal, and are marked on their sides by depressions and tubercles. Their articular sur- faces, smooth and convex, are prolonged on the inferior aspect, where they terminate in bifid margins. That of the first metatarsal bone pre- sents interiorly a ridge in the middle, with grooved depressions placed one on each side and corresponding to the position of the sesamoid bones. THE PHALANGES. The phalanges of the toes correspond so nearly in general conforma- tion with those of the fingers that it will only be necessary in this place to state the points in which they ditfer from the latter. The phalanges of the four outer toes are much smaller than the corresponding phalanges of the hand ; but those of the great toe are larger than those of the thumb. The shafts of the first row of pha- langes in the four outer toes are compressed laterally and narrowed in the middle ; those of the second row, more especially the fourth and fifth, arc very short, and consist of little beyond what is necessary to unite their articular extremities. The last two phalanges of the little toe are in adults not unfrequently connected by bone into one piece. Sesamoid Boxes.—Two sesamoid bones lie side by side in the plantar wall of the first metatarso-phalangeal joint, and glide in the grooves on the head of the first metatarsal bone. Small sesamoid bones sometimes occur in the corresponding joints of the other toes. THE BONES OP THE POOT AS A WHOLE. The foot is narrowest at the heel, and as it passes forwards becomes broader as far as the heads of the metatarsal bones. The posterior ex- tremity of the calcaneum is inclined slightly inwards. The astragalus, ' overhanging the sustentaculum tali, inclines inwards from the calcaneum so much that its external superior border is directly over the middle line of the calcaneum, and hence the internal malleolus appears more prominent than the external. The foot is arched from behind forwards, 1 the posterior pier of the arch being formed by the heel, the anterior by the balls of the toes. The arch, indeed, may be considered as i double in front, with a common support behind. The internal division of the arch is that which bears the greater part of the weight of the body, and is most raised from the ground ; it consists of the calcaneum in its posterior two-thirds, the scaphoid and cuneiform bones, and the f three inner toes; the outer arch is formed by the calcaneum in its