235 TENSOR VAGINJE FEMORIS MUSCLE. all the lumbar vertebrae in the following manner Each slip takes n origin from an intervertebral disc, and from the contiguous margins o ■the bodies of two vertebras, the highest being attached to the neig - Ibouring margins of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, and ie 4 lowest to the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae with the intervertebral ' substance between them. These attachments are connected by thin i tendinous arches extending over the middle of each vertebra, coveimg the lumbar vessels and communicating branches of the sympathetic 7nerve, and giving origin to other muscular fibres. The various bundles jjof fibres speedily unite to form a thick elongated muscle, which luns i along the brim of the pelvis, and emerging from the abdomen beneat i ■Poupart’s ligament is inserted into the small trochanter of the lemui ■by means of a tendon, which is placed at first within the substance of i the muscle, and afterwards at its outer side, receiving in this mannei i the fibres of the iliacus as well as those of the psoas. Relations.—The psoas muscle, at its superior extremity, passes behind the dia- phragm, below tlie arch of the ligamentum arcuatum internum. Posteriorly it is in contact with the quadratus lumborum muscle and the os innominatum. Resting on its inner border along the margin of the pelvis, is the external iliac artery, and deeply in the substance of the muscle is -the lumbar plexus of nerves. The ilio-ingninal and external cutaneous nerves cross the iliacus muscle. ; and the anterior crural nerve descends on the tendon of the psoas. The iliac l fascia extends over the surface of the whole ilio-psoas muscle in the abdomen. After emerging from the abdomen beneath Poupart’s ligament, and turning ii 'over the brim of the pelvis, the tendon of the psoas rests on the capsule of the hip- ■ joint, on which it glides by means of a large synovial bursa, which occasionally com- ■'j municates with the interior of the joint; its outer margin is in contact with the < rectus muscle, and its inner margin is separated from the pectineus by the in- U temal circumflex artery. Variety.—The psoas parvus, an occasional muscle, placed on the surface of the psoas magnus, arises from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra}, and from the fibro-cartilage between them, and soon ends in a flat tendon, which [passes along- the front and the inner side of the psoas magnus, to be inserted into the ilio-pectineal line and eminence. This muscle, although it is well developed and constant in animals, is most frequently absent in the human subject. It was found in only one of twenty bodies examined by Theile with special refer- ence to its existence. When present, it is liable to many changes in the place of origin ; thus, it may be connected only with the first lumbar vertebra, or with the second and the intervertebral substance above it, and it has been observed to i commence by two parts or heads separated by an interval. The tensor vaginas femoris, or ilio-aponeurotic muscle of the ■thigh, arises by muscular and tendinous fibres from the external surface f of the iliac crest close to its fore-part, and from part of the notch ■ between the two anterior iliac spines, external to the attachment of the I sartorius; and passing downwards and a little outwards it is inserted between two laminae of the fascia lata, from three to four inches below the ■W great trochanter of the femur. The outer of these laminae is continued upwards on the muscle in its wdiole extent, being part of the general investment of the limb, the deeper is connected above with the origin i‘ of the rectus muscle, and with the fibres attaching the gluteus minimus : to the hip-joint. The part of the fascia, made tense by the action of the muscle, forms a strong tendinous band, which descends to the outer surface of the anterior tuberosity of the tibia. Relations.—This muscle lies upon the anterior border of tlie gluteus minimus, ic upper parts of the rectus femoris and vastus extemus muscles, and the