OSSIFICATION OF THE HUMERUS. 97 from two separate centres, the one appearing about the 6th week, for the shaft and acromial end, the other appearing about the 18th to the 20th year for an epi- physis at the sternal end. The epiphysis is united to the shaft about the 25th year. In the humerus an ossific nucleus appears near the middle of the shaft in the 8th week. It gradually extends, until at birth only the ends of the bone are cartilaginous. About the beginning of the 2nd year the nucleus of the head appears, and during the 3rd year that for the great tuberosity. The lesser tuberosity is either ossified from a distinct nucleus which appears in the 5th year, or by extension of ossification from the great tuberosity. These nuclei unite together about the 5th year to form an epiphysis, which is not united to the shaft till the 20th year. In the cartilage of the lower end of the bone four separate nuclei are seen, the first appearing in the capitellum in the 3rd year. Fig. 84. Fig. 84.—Ossification of the Humerus (R. Quain). A, from a full grown fetus ; B, at two years ; C, in the third year ; D, at the beginning of the fifth year ; E, at about the twelfth year; F, at the age of puberty. 1, the primary centre for the shaft ; 2, nucleus for the articular head ; 3, that for the great tuberosity ; 4, for the radial condyle and adjacent part of the trochlea ; 5, for the inner or trochlear eminence ; 6, for the inner part of the trochlea ; 7, for the external or capitellar eminence. In this and the following figures the more advanced bones are shown on a smaller scale than the earlier ones. The nucleus of the internal condylar eminence appears in the 5th year, that of the trochlea in the 11th or 12th year, and that of the external condylar eminence in the 13th or 14th year. The nucleus of the internal condylar eminence forms a distinct epiphysis which unites with the shaft in the 18th year; the other three nuclei coalesce to form an epiphysis, which is united to the shaft in the 16 th or 17 th year. The radius is developed from an osseous nucleus, which appears in the middle of the shaft in the 8th week, and from an epiphysial nucleus in each ex- tremity which only appear some time after birth. The nucleus in the carpal extremity appears at the end of the 2nd year, while that of the head is not seen till the 5th or 6th year. The superior epiphysis and shaft unite about the 17tli or 18th year; the inferior epiphysis and shaft unite about the 20th year. The ulna is ossified similarly to the radius, but ossification begins a few days later. The nucleus of the shaft appears about the 8th week, that of the carpal vou. i. „