533 tiie fifth fair. summit of the petrous part of the temporal bone. Here the larger root alters in appearance : its bundles of fibres diverge and enter the Gas- serian mano-lion. The fasciculi divide and unite m the expanded part oftKeSe, so as to form a ptatiform network The smaller root passes inside and beneath the ganglion, without its nen e-fibics being incorporated in any way with it, and joins outside the skull the lowest of the three trunks which issue from the ganglion. Fig. 335. Fig. 335.—General Plan op the Branches op the Fifth Pair (after a sketch by Charles Bell), i 1, lesser root of the fifth pair ; 2, greater root passing forwards into the Gasserian gang- lion ; 3, placed on the bone above the ophthal- mic nerve, which is seen dividing into the supra- orbital, lachrymal, and nasal branches, the latter connected with the oph- thalmic ganglion ; 4, placed on the bone close to the foramen rotundum, marks the superior max- illary division, which is connected below with the sphenopalatine ganglion, and passes forwards to the infraorbital foramen; 5, placed on the bone over the foramen ovale, marks the submaxillary nerve, giving off the anterior auri- cular and muscular bran- ches, and continued by the inferior dental to the lower jaw, and by the gustatory to the tongue; a, the submaxillary gland, the submaxillary ganglion placed above it in connection with the gustatory nerve ; 6, the chorda tympani; 7, the facial nerve issuing from the stylo-mastoid foramen. The ganglion of the fifth nerve or Gasserian ganglion (ganglion semi- lunare), occupies a depression on the upper part of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, near the apex, and is somewhat crescentic in form, the convexity being turned forwards. It is flattened and striated on the surface. On its inner side the ganglion is joined by filaments from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic nerve, and, according to some anatomists, it furnishes from its back part filaments to the dura mater. Distribution.—From the fore part, or convex border of the Gas- serian ganglion, proceed the three large divisions of the nerve. The highest (first or ophthalmic trunk) enters the orbit ; the second, the upper maxillary nerve, is continued forwards to the face, below the orbit; and the third, the lower maxillary nerve, is distributed chiefly to the^ external ear, the tongue, the lower teeth, and the muscles of masti- cation. The first two trunks proceed exclusively from the ganglion