THE ANKLE-JOINT. 173 a small aperture for the passage of the anterior branches of the peroneal vessels. Fig. 154.—Articulations of the Knee, Leg and Ankle, seen FROM BEFORE. g 1, superior anterior tibio-fibular ligament; 2, interosseous mem- brane ; 3, the anterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament; 4, internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint ; 5, middle vertical part (cal- caneo-fibular) of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint; 6, anterior part (talo-fibular) of the same ; 7, anterior ligament of the ankle-joint. Lower tibio-fibular articulation.—The inferior extremities of the tibia and fibula are in contact by surfaces which for the most part are rough and bound together by ligament, but near their lower edges are smooth and covered by cartilage. The tibial sur- face is concave, the fibular convex ; but the lower edges of botli surfaces are straight. The strong short fibres which pass directly between the opposed sur- faces form the inferior interosseous ligament. The anterior ligament is a flat band of fibres, extended obliquely over the lower part of the bones, the direction of its fibres being downwards from the tibia to the fibula. The posterior ligament, some- what triangular, is similarly disposed behind the articulation ; its outer surface is covered by the peronei muscles. The transverse ligament, longer and narrower than the preceding, is placed imme- diately below it; its fibres are horizontal, and extend from the external malleolus to the contiguous part and hinder border of the articular surface of the tibia; it closes the interval between the bones. The synovial cavity lying between the small articu- lar surfaces is an extension of that of the ankle-joint. THE ANKLE-JOINT. Fig. 154. In this articulation, which is a hinge joint, the inferior extremi- Fig. 155.—The Lower Tibio-Fibular Articulation and Fig. 155. Ankle-Joint, from behind. 1, inferior posterior tibio-fibular ligament; 2, transverse ligament; 3, posterior fibres of tbe internal lateral ligament of tbe ankle-joint; 4, middle, and 5, posterior part of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint; 6, posterior talo-calcaneal ligament. ties of the tibia and fibula are united so as to present a three-sided hollow, which embraces the astragalus, and renders lateral movement impossible when the ligaments are tense. The internal lateral or deltoid ligament is a fiat fasciculus of fibres, much broader at the lower than at the upper part. One ex- tremity is attached to the groove on the inferior border of the internal