393 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. important parts, and the large size of its branches, render operations on this vessel peculiarly difficult. The third division of the artery, situated beyond the anterior scalenus muscle is the part which is most favourably circumstanced for the application of a ligature. Here the vessel is nearest to the surface, and most remote from the origin of the large branches. The subclavian artery is generally most easy of access above the clavicle while the parts are in then- natural position, but when they are displaced by an aneurism in the axilla, the clavicle may be so much elevated by the tumour, as to be placed in front of the vessel, or even above it; and such a condition may require special modifications of the operation. In the operation of passing a ligature round the third part of the subclavian artery, an incision is to be made a little above the most prominent or convex part of the clavicle, opposite the place where the vessel lies, and parallel with it. By drawing the integument downwards over the clavicle, the parts covering the bone may be divided with freedom. Along with the integument, the platysma and several nerves are divided in this incision, but no vessel is endangered, except in those rare cases in which the cephalic vein or the external jugular- crosses over the clavicle. It will, in most cases, be an advantage to add a short vertical incision, directed downwards to the middle of the horizontal one. Should the stemo-mastoid muscle be broad at its lower end, or should the interval between that muscle and the trapezius be insufficient for the farther steps of the operation, a portion of the former muscle, or even of both muscles, must be divided. The external jugular vein, joined by the veins from the shoulder, is usually over the artery, and it must be held aside, or it may be necessary to divide . it. If divided, the lower end of the vessel requires the application of a liga- ture as well as the upper one, in consequence of the reflux of blood from the subclavian vein. The omo-hyoid muscle will also be turned aside if necessary. At this stage of the operation, in the usual position of the clavicle, the first rib is the best guide to the vessel. At this place the brachial nerves are close to the vessel, so that great care must be exercised in passing the ligature round the artery. But if it is found necessary to raise greatly the outer end of the clavicle, then it will, in many cases, be more easy to place the ligature on the artery inside the insertion of the scalenus muscle, or even behind that muscle. Above the first rib, the situation of the vessel may be ascertained by means of the brachial nerves and the scalenus muscle; and, before the membrane covering them is divided, the position of these structures may be ascertained by the cord-like feel of the nerves, and the smooth, flat form of the muscle. M ith reference also to the choice of the exact place at which the ligature is to be passed round this part of the artery, it should always be borne in mind that a very considerable branch may be given off from the main artery, immediately beyond the scalenus muscle, or at some other part of the vessel. This branch is most frequently one corresponding to the posterior scapular; but in carer cases may be the sirperficial cervical or suprascapular. The second division of the subclavian artery, or that situated behind the scalenus anticus muscle, is the part which rises highest in the neck, and on this account it may be advantageously selected for the application of a ligature when the vessel is difficult of access beyond the muscle. The chief objection to operating on this part of the artery arises from the contiguity of the large branches. Care is necessary in dividing the scalenus muscle to avoid the phrenic nerve and the internal jugular vein. Moreover, the fact of the close apposition of the subcla- vian artery -with the pleura, except where it rests on the rib. must be borne in mind. Difficulties also arise from the occurrence of an unusual position of the artery, as when it passes through the substance of the anterior scalenus, or when it is mJ?orik °f that muscle ; but such cases are of very rare occurrence. e first part of the subclavian artery on the left side may be said to be maccessible for the application of a ligature, in consequence of its depth and its c ose connection with the lung and other important structures, such as the internal jugular and left innominate veins.