THE RENAL AND SPERMATIC ARTERIES. 433 aorta, about half an inch below the superior mesenteric artery, that of the right side being rather lower down than that of the left. Each is directed outwards, so as to form nearly a right angle with the aorta. In consequence of the position of the aorta upon the spine, the right renal artery has to run a somewhat longer course than the left, in order to reach the kidney. The artery of the right side crosses behind the vena cava, and both right and left arteries are overlapped by the accom- panying renal veins. Previously to reaching the concave border of the kidney, each artery divides into four or five branches, the greater number of which usually lie intermediate between the vein in front and the pelvis of the kidney behind. These branches, after having- passed deeply into the fissure of the kidney, subdivide and are distri- buted in the gland, in the manner described in the account of the structure of that organ. Branches.—The renal artery, before passing into the glandular substance, furnishes a small branch to the suprarenal capsule, a second to the ureter, and several others which ramify in the connective tissue and fat behind the kidney. Varieties. —The renal artery may be replaced by two, three, four, or even five branches ; and the greatest difference as to the origin of these vessels is found to exist even on opposite sides of the same body. As they usually arise in suc- cession from the aorta itself, it would seem as if the deviation were merely an increased degree of that in which the renal artery dirides into branches sooner than usual after its origin. In some cases a renal artery has been seen to proceed from the common iliac ; and in one case, described by Eustachius, from the internal iliac. Portal found in one instance the right and left renal arteries arising by a common trunk from the fore part of the aorta. In another case, one of several arteries arose from the front of the aorta at its bifurcation ; or from the left common iliac at its origin. The branches of the renal artery, instead of entering at the hilus, sometimes reach and penetrate the gland near its upper end, or on its anterior surface. The right renal artery has been seen to cross the vena cava in front instead of behind. Supernumerary branches are also frequently found. The most common are, the diaphragmatic from the inferior suprarenal; a hepatic branch from the right renal; branches to the small and large intestines ; the middle suprarenal ; the spermatic, and various lumbar arteries. Lastly, cases occur, though very rarely, in which one of the renal arteries is wanting. Spermatic and ovarian arteries.—The spermatic arteries, two small and very long vessels, arise close together from the fore part of the aorta a little below the renal arteries. Each artery is directed down- wards and outwards, resting on the psoas muscle ; it crosses obliquely the ureter and, afterwards, the external iliac artery, and turns forward to the internal abdominal ring. There it comes into contact with the vas deferens, and, separating from the peritoneum, passes with the other constituents of the spermatic cord along the inguinal canal, and descends to the scrotum, where it becomes tortuous, and reaching the back part ol the testis anastomoses with the artery of the vas deferens, and finally divides into branches which pierce the fibrous capsule of the testis. In the female, the ovarian arteries, corresponding to the spennatic arteries in the male, are shorter than these vessels, and do not pass out ol the abdominal cavity. The origin, direction, and connections of the ovarian artery in the first part of its course are the same as in the male; but at the margin of the pelvis it iuclines inwards, and running tortu- yol. x.