ARTICULATIONS OF THE HEAD. 144 TEMPORO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION. The lower jaw articulates by its condyle on each side with the smooth surface of the temporal hone, extending over the part of the glenoid Fig- 130. Fig. 130.—A PORTION OP THE SkUli, with the Lower Jaw and Hyoid Bone, seen from THE RIGHT AND OUTER SIDE. (A. T., after Arnold.) J 1, the external lateral ligament; 2, a part of the capsule of the joint; 3, styloid process ; 4, stylo- maxillary ligament; 5, stylo-hyoid ligament; 6, lesser cornu of the hyoid bone with some short liga- ments attaching it to the body and great cornu ; 7, the body ; 8, the great cornu. fossa in front of the Glaser- ian fissure and the anterior root of the zygoma. The joint is divided by an in- terarticular fibro-cartilage into an upper and a lower synovial cavity. The external lateral ligament is a short fasciculus of fibres, attached above to the external surface and the tubercle of the zygoma ; Fig. 131. Fig. 131.—A portion op the Skuld and Lower Jaw with halp the hyoid bone, seen from the inside. (A. T.) i The numbers are the same as in Fig. 130 ; 3, the styloid process, detached from the skull; 7, the posterior and inner sur- face of the right half of the body of the hyoid bone ; 9, the internal lateral liga- ment of the temporo-maxillary joint; 10, the upper opening of the inferior dental canal. and below, to the external surface and posterior border of the neck of the lower jaw, its fibres being directed downwards and back- wards. Thin and short additional ligamentous fibres cover the syno- vial membrane in front and on the inside, forming an irregular cap- sule round the joint The internal lateral ligament, thin, loose, and elongated, lies at (some distance from the joint. It extends from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone downwards and a little forwards, to be attached to the inner border of the inferior dental foramen. Between it and the lower jaw are placed the external pterygoid muscle, the internal max- illary artery, and the inferior dental nerve. It has no immediate