16 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. In the groove between the two rows are placed the four posterior sacral foramina, which arc smaller than the anterior. The part of the sacrum external to the foramina constitutes the lateral mass, and is broad and thick superiorly, but narrowed inferiorly. The outer aspect of the upper part presents in front a large uneven Fig. 12. Fig. 12.—Sacrum and Coccyx op the Male viewed from behind. (A. T.) i 1, Body of the first sacral vertebra; 4, 4, sacral canal; and behind this, the series of four united lamina; and spinous processes ; 6, 6' line of tubercles corresponding to transverse processes ; 7, T, line of articu- lar processes, with four adjacent posterior sacral foramina; l, l, auricular or iliac articular surface ; in the coccyx, c, body of the last vertebra ; t, transverse process ; 7, cornu or superior articular process. surface, covered in the recent state with cartilage, which articu- lates with the ilium, and is called from its shape the auricular sur- face : behind this it is rough and very uneven, for the attachment of ligaments. Lower down, the margin becomes narrowed and sinuous, terminating in the pro- jection called the inferior lateral angle, below which the breadth of the bone is suddenly contracted so as to form a notch with the adjacent part of the coccyx. The base or upper surface of the first vertebra bears considerable resemblance to the upper surface of the last lumbar. In the midd e it presents the reniform surface of the body, behind which is the triangular aperture of the sacral canal, bounded by the depressed Fig. 13, Fig. 13.—Upper Surface or Base of the Sacrum of a Male. (A. T.) g 1 the body ; 4, the foramen, ring, or sacral canal ; 5, the spinous process of the first sacral vertebra’; 6, the part corresponding to a transverse process, in front of which is the large lateral mass ; 7, 7' the superior and inferior articular processes ; c, the mam- millary tubercle ; /, the accessory tubercle, slightly seen. laminae On each side of the apertn^jn^Mar process, exactly resemblmg the supenOT process of intervertebral foramen. me “s the iliac fossa of the pelvis.