MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 261 III. MUSCLES AND FASCLZE OF THE HEAD AND NECK. EPICRANIAL REGION. Fascia.—The superficial fascia is little developed on the head and neck generally, and is in great measure blended with structures described under other names. A layer of considerable firmness, however, inter- venes between the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscle and the skin, uniting them together: from the surface of the occipital part of the muscle it becomes continuous with a superficial covering of the posterior muscles of the neck, and on each side of the epicranial apo- neurosis it descends over the temporal fascia, and contains between its laminae the external muscles of the ear, with the superficial temporal vessels and nerves. Muscles.—Under the title of occipito-frontalis muscle are compre- hended the occipital and frontal muscles, united together by a thin aponeurosis which extends over and covers the upper part of the cranium. The occipitalis muscle, thin and subcutaneous, is attached inte- riorly by short tendinous fibres to the external two-thirds, sometimes less, of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and to the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, immediately above the attachment of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Its fleshy fibres, from one to two inches in length, are directed upwards, and terminate in distinct tendinous fibres, continuous with the epicranial aponeurosis. The interval between the muscles of opposite sides is occupied by the aponeurosis. The frontalis muscle, larger and of a paler colour than the occi- pitalis, arises superiorly in a convex line from the epicranial aponeurosis, Avhile interiorly its innermost fibres are continuous with the pyramidalis nasi muscle; some take attachment to the internal angular process of the frontal bone, and the others are blended with the corrugator supercilii and with the orbicularis palpebrarum as far as the outer side of the orbit. The fibres are nearly vertical, running slightly inwards; the margins of the right and left muscles are united for a short dis- tance above the root of the nose, but are separated by an angular interval superiorly. The epicranial or occipito-frontal aponeurosis extends over the upper surface of the cranium uniformly from side to side, without division. Posteriorly it is attached- to the occipitales muscles, and to the protuberance and superior curved lines of the occipital bone, and anteriorly it terminates in the frontales muscles, while laterally it pre- sents no distinct margin, but below the temporal ridge becomes thinner and less aponeurotic, and gives attachment to the superior and anterior auricular muscles. Its fibres are chiefly longitudinal, and are most distinctly tendinous where they give attachment to the occipitales muscles. Its outer surface is firmly bound to the skin by an abundant network of connective tissue, constituting the so-called superficial fascia, by the meshes of which the subcutaneous fat is divided into granules; while its deep surface glides upon the subjacent pericranium, to which it is loosely attached by a delicate connective tissue devoid of fat. Varieties. Both parts of the occipito-frontalis muscle are subject to variation in their fulness or extent, and in their places of attachment. The occipitalis some- times approaches the middle line, and is occasionally broken up into separate