MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 2S2 tendon is connected with the body and great cornu of the os hyoides bv a broad band oi. aponeurotic fibres in the form of a loop, and lined win. synovial membrane, and by the fleshy fibres of the stylo-hyoid muscle through which the tendon passes. e> Iirlatwrut. The anterior belly, placed immediately beneath the deep cervical iascia, rests on the mylo-hyoid muscle ; it is connected with its fellow of the opposite side by dense fascia, and occasionally is united by muscular fibres to it or to the mylo-hyoid muscle. The posterior belly is covered by the mastoid process and the muscles arising from that bone, and crosses the external carotid artery, and the internal jugular On the right side, the platys- ma alone has been removed on the left side both the bellies of the digastric, the stylo-hyoid, the mylo-hyoid, the stemo-hyoid, and omo- hyoid muscles have been re- moved : a, symphysis ; b, angle of the lower jaw; c, middle of the body of the hyoid bone ; cl, mastoid pro- cess ; e, placed on the front of the thyroid cartilage, points to the thyro-hyoid muscle ; f, upper part of the sternum ; g, lateral lobe, and +, isth- mus of the thyroid gland; above +, the front of the cricoid cartilage covered by the crico-thyroid muscle ; 1, posterior belly; 1', anterior belly of right digastricmuscle; 2, right mylo-hyoid; 3, left genio-hyoid ; 4, liyo-glossus ; 5, stylo-glossus ; 5', a portion of it seen on the right side ; 6, stylo-hyoid of the right side ; 7, stylo-pharyngeus of the left side ; 8, placed on the levator scapulae, points to the left middle constrictor of the pharynx ; 9, placed on the middle scalenus, points to the left inferior constrictor; 10, right sterno-liyoid ; 11, placed on the left sterno-tbyroid, points also to the lower part of the right muscle ; 12, placed on the right sterno-mastoid, points to the upper and lower bellies of the right omo-hyoid. Fig. 208.—View op the Sub- maxillary Muscles and the Depressors op tub IIyoid Done and Larynx, FROM BEFORE. (A. T.) £ Varieties.—Tlie digastric muscle is subject to many variations. Tire posterior belly may receive an accessory slip from the styloid process (Wood), or from the angle of the lower jaw (Henle). It has been seen arising from the styloid process. Rarely the muscle is monogastric, the posterior belly alone being present and being inserted into the ramus of the jaw (McWhinnie). The anterior btlly is frequently divided into two or more parts, one or even two of which may cross the middle line and decussate with similar slips from the muscle of the opposite side; or a slip sometimes passes to the median raphe of the mylo-hyoid, with which and its fellow of the opposite side it becomes incoi-porated. The tendon of the digastric has been seen in front of, or more rarely behind the stylo-hyoul instead of passing through it. The mcnto-lnjoid (Macalister) is an occasional mesial slip found passing