THE CRANIAL NERVES. 538 a. The temporal branch is contained in an osseous groove or canal in the outer wall ot the orbit, and leaves this cavity by a foramen in the malar bone. ^hen about to traverse the bone, it is joined by a com- municating filament (in some cases, by two filaments) from the lachrymal nerve, Ihe nerve is then inclined upwards in the temporal fossa be- tween the bone and the temporal muscle, and perforating the aponeurosis over the muscle an inch above the zygoma, ends in cutaneous fila- ments over the temple. The cutaneous ramifications are united with the facial nerve, and sometimes with the auriculo-temporal branch of the third division of the fifth. b. Ihe malar branch lies at first in the loose fat in the lower angle of the orbit, and is continued to the face through a foramen in the fore part of the malar bone, where it is frequently divided into two filaments. It is distributed to the skin over the malar bone. In the prominent part of the cheek this nerve communicates with the facial nerve. > Fig. 337. Fig. 337.—Superior Maxillary Nerve and some op the Orbital Nerves (from Sappey after HirseMeld and Leveille). § 1,' tlie Gasserian ganglion ; 2, lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic nerve ; 3, trunk of the superior maxillary nerve ; 4, its orbital branch, joining, at 5, the palpebral twig of the lachrymal; 6, origin of its malar twig ; 7, its temporal twig ; 8, spheno-palatine ganglion ; 9, Vidian nerve ; 10, its upper branch or great superficial petrosal nerve proceeding to join the facial nerve (11) ; 12, union of the lower branch of the Vidian nerve with the carotid branch of the sympathetic ; 13, 14, posterior dental nerves ; 15, terminal branches of the infraorbital nerves ramifying on the side of the nose and upper lip ; 16, a branch of the facial uniting with some of the twigs of the infraorbital. Posterior dental branches.—The posterior dental branches, two in number, are directed downwards and outwards over the back part and tuberosity of the maxillary bone. One of the branches enters a canal in the bone by which it is con- ducted to the teeth, and gives forwards a communicating filament to the anterior dental nerve. It ends in filaments to the molar teeth and the lining membrane of the maxillary sinus, and near the teeth joins a second time with the anterior dental nerve. The anterior of the two branches, lying on the surface of the bone, is distributed to the gums of the upper jaw and to the buccinator muscle.