TIIE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 3S0 and rests between the scalenus anticus and scalenus medius muscles on tlic first rib. At the outer border of the first rib it ceases to be called subclavian, and is continued into the axillary artery. Each subclavian artery is conveniently divided into three parts,—the first part extending from the origin of the vessel to the inner border of the anterior scalenus muscle ; the second consisting of the portion of the vessel situated behind that muscle ; and the third reaching outwards to the external border of the first rib. In examining each of these portions in detail, it will be necessary in the first part to give separate descriptions for the right and the left sides, as there is a material difference in the origin, course, and relations of the two vessels. THE FIRST PART OF THE RIGHT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY commences close to the trachea, at the division of the innominate artery, behind the upper part of the sterno-clavicular articulation, and ends at the inner margin of the anterior scalenus muscle. Separating from tlie carotid artery, it arches upwards and outwards, and ascends above the level of the clavicle to an extent which varies in different cases. It is deeply placed, being covered by the platysma, the sterno-mastoid, the sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, and the deep cervical fascia. It is in contact with the pleura inferiority, and is separated by an interval from the longus colli muscle behind. Relation to Veins.—The subclavian vein lies lower than the artery, close under the clavicle. In its course to join this vein, the internal jugular passes in front of the artery near the scalenus muscle, as do also, nearer the middle line, the anterior jugular and vertebral veins. Relation to Nerves.—The vagus nerve passes in front of the artery on the inner side of the internal jugular vein, and its recurrent laryngeal branch, turning round below the artery, ascends behind. Some cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve pass down over the artery, while the main trunk passes behind. THE FIRST PART OF THE LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY arises from the upper surface of the arch of the aorta, at the left end of its transverse portion, and ascends to the margin of the first rib, behind the insertion of the anterior scalenus muscle. It is, therefore, longer than the first part of the right subclavian, and ascends at first almost vertically out of the chest, instead of arching, like that vessel, outwards across the neck. It is at first overlapped by the left lung, and is covered in front and on the left side by the pleura ; it rests on the longus colli muscle, and lies, for a short space, in front of the oesophagus (here deviating to the left side), and the thoracic duct. To the inner or right side of the vessel are situated the left carotid artery and the trachea, and further up the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. Relation to Veins.—The internal jugular vein is immediately before the artery, where it turns outwards from the thorax, close to the scalenus muscle ; and the left innominate vein is likewise anterior to it. Relation to Nerves.—The pneumogastric nerve is anterior to the first part of the left subclavian artery, and parallel with it, the recurrent branch on this side turning round below the arch of the aorta. The phrenic nerve descends over the artery along the inner margin of the scalenus muscle, immediately outside the thyroid axis. The cardiac nerves of the left side, descending from the neck, are close to the artery. , . ,. THE SECOND PART OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY, the short portion COn-