571 POSTERIOR DIVISIONS OF SPINAL NERVES. spinal cord being nearly opposite the foramina by which they respec- tively leave the canal, these roots are comparatively short. But the distance between the two points referred to is gradually augmented from nerve to nerve downwards, so that the place of origin of the lower cervical nerves is the breadth of at least one vertebra, and that of the lower dorsal nerves about the breadth of two vertebras above the fora- mina by which they respectively emerge from the canal. Moreover, as the spinal cord extends no farther than the first lumbar vertebra, the length of the roots of the lumbar, sacral and coccygeal nerves increases rapidly from nerve to nerve, and in each case may be estimated by the distance of the foramen of exit from the extremity of the cord. Owing to their length, and the appearance they present in connection with the spinal cord, the aggregation of the roots of the nerves last referred to has been named the u cauda equina.” The direction the roots take within the canal requires brief notice. The first cervical nerve is directed horizontally outwards. The roots of the lower cervical and dorsal nerves at first descend over the spinal cord, held in contact with it by the arachnoid, till they arrive opposite the several intervertebral foramina, where they are directed horizontally outwards. The nerves of the cauda equina run in the direction of the spinal canal. Division of the nerves.—The two roots of each of the spinal nerves unite immediately beyond the ganglion, and the trunk thus formed separates, as already mentioned, into two divisions, an anterior and a posterior, which are called primary branches or divisions. In the detailed description of the spinal nerves which follows, we shall begin with their posterior primary divisions, calling attention first to certain characters common to the whole of them, and afterwards stating separately the arrangement peculiar to each group of nerves (cervical, dorsal, &c.). POSTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISION'S OF THE SPT1STAT. NERVES. The posterior divisions of the spinal nerves are, with few exceptions, smaller than those given to the fore part of the body. Springing from the trunk which results from the union of the roots of the nerve in the intervertebral foramen, or frequently by separate fasciculi from each of the roots, each turns backwards at once, and soon divides into two parts, distinguished as external and internal, distributed to the muscles and the integument behind the spine. The first cervical, the fourth and fifth sacral and the coccygeal nerve are the only nerves the posterior divisions of which do not separate into external and internal branches. _ The Sub-occipital Nerve.—The posterior division of the sub-occi- pital nerve, which is the larger of the two primary divisions, emerging over the arch of the atlas, between this and the vertebral artery, enters the space bounded by the larger rectus and the two oblique muscles, and divides into branches for the surrounding muscles. ft. One branch descends to the lower oblique muscle and gives a filament, through or over the fibres of that muscle, to join the second cervical nerve. b. Another ascends over the larger rectus muscle, supplying it and the smaller rectus. c. A third enters the upper oblique muscle. . d. A fourth sinks into the complexus, where that muscle covers the nerve and its branches.