THE CRANIAL NERVES. 548 external rectus muscle, it is beneath the other nerves, but above the ophthalmic vein. While passing along the internal carotid artery in the cavernous sinus, it is joined by several filaments of the sympathetic from the carotid plexus. According to Bock it is joined in the orbit by a filament from Meckel’s ganglion.—(“ Beschreibung des Fiinften Ncrvcnpaares.” 1817.) Varieties.—Absence upon one side lias been recorded, its place being supplied by a branch from the third nerve. (Generali.) SEVENTH PAIR OF NERVES. In the seventh cranial nerve of Willis are comprised two nerves haying a distinct origin, distribution, and function. One of these, the facial, is the motor nerve of the face; the other, the auditory, is the special nerve of the organ of hearing. Both enter the internal auditory meatus in the temporal bone, but they are soon separated from each other. The facial nerve being the firmer of the two, was termed the portio dura, the other being called the portio mollis. FACIAL NERVE. Surface attachment.—The facial nerves appear, on each side, at the inferior margin of the pons, and in a line with the roots of the fifth pair. Each nerve emerges from the medulla oblongata, in the outer- part of the depression between the olivary body and the diverging resti- form body (inferior peduncle of cerebellum), and is often firmly ad- herent, as a flattened band, to the lower edge and even for a short distance to the upper surface of the pons. On its outer side is the auditory nerve. A separate fasciculus of the facial nerve (iintermediate . part) is sometimes attached to both auditory and facial nerves. Deep origin.—The fibres of the facial nerve course backwards, in- wards, and a little upwards to reach the outer side of the column of nerve-cells, which lies beneath the eminentia teres (common nucleus of sixth and facial nerves). In it many of the fibres end. A few pass ' inwards, and cross at the raphe to the opposite side of the medulla. Other fibres ascend to the upper extremity of the nucleus, around which they turn, and descend, as a compact bundle, on its inner side. These fibres finally radiate forwards and outwards to the column of nerve- cells, prolonged downwards from the motor nucleus of the fifth nerve, and also to the superior olivary body. Course.—The facial nerve is inclined outwards with the auditory nerve, from its place of origin, to the internal auditory meatus. The facial lies in a groove on the auditory nerve, and the two are united in the auditory meatus by one or two small filaments. At the bottom of the meatus the facial nerve enters the aqueduct of Fallopius, and follows the windings of that canal to the lower surface of the skull. The nerve passes through the temporal bone at first almost horizontally outwards, between the cochlea and vestibule ; on reaching the inner wall of the tympanum it is turned suddenly backwards above the fenestra ovalis towards the pyramid. At the place where it bends, the nerve presents a reddish gangliform enlargement, sometimes called the genicu- late ganglion, which marks the place of junction of several nerves. Opposite the pyramid it is arched downwards behind the tympanum to the stylo-mastoid foramen, by which it leaves the osseous canal. It is then continued forwards through the substance, of the parotid gland.