279 MUSCLES OF MASTICATION. ; projecting clown between the muscular fasciculi, to which they afford an | extensive surface of origin : its fibres proceed downwards and a little i backwards to be inserted into the lower half of the ramus of the jaw, :i extending as far as the angle. The deep part of the muscle, of a tri- ! angular form, consists of fibres which are much shorter than those of a the superficial part, and are directed downwards and forwards. They j irise from the posterior third of the lower border and from all the deep >, surface of the zygomatic arch, and, becoming united with the superficial part, are inserted into the upper half of the ramus of the jaw, includ- j ing the coronoid process: only the upper and back part of this portion i of the muscle is left uncovered by the superficial portion. Relations.—The external surface of the masseter muscle is covered for the most < part only by tlie skin and fascia ; it is, however, overlapped behind by the parotid 6 jland, and crossed by its duct; the branches of the facial nerve and the trans- verse facial artery also rest upon it. Its inner surface is towards the buccinator, from which it is separated by soft adipose tissue ; it is in close contact with the - ramus of the jaw, and covers a nerve and vessels which enter it over the sigmoid aotch of that bone. The temporal fascia is a dense white shining aponeurotic structure, which covers the temporal muscle above the zygoma, and gives attach- ment to some of its fibres of origin. It is attached superiorly to the posterior border of the malar bone and to the temporal ridge on the frontal, parietal, and temporal bones; while interiorly, where it is sepa- rated by a quantity of fat into two layers, it is attached to the zygoma, i the superficial layer to the outer surface, and the deep layer to the inner I surface of that process. This dense fascia is separated from the integu- i ments by the layer of thin membrane descending from the epicranial aponeurosis, and by the auricular muscles; and from the temporal muscle below, by a layer of fat. The temporal muscle is fan-shaped, and arises from the whole surface of the temporal fossa, with the exception of the anterior or i malar wall, and from the deep surface of the temporal fascia, as it * passes down over it to the zygoma ; some of its posterior fibres arising i from this fascia blend with the deep fibres of the masseter muscle. The direction of the anterior fibres is nearly vertical, that of the middle ■ fibres oblique, and that of the posterior fibres at first horizontal. The fibres converge as they descend, and all terminate in a tendon, which, emerging from the interior of the muscle, is implanted into the inner • surface and anterior border of the coronoid process of the lower jaw- bone, as far down as the union of the body and ramus of the jaw. . Relations. The upper part of the muscle is closely covered by the temporal fascia; the lower and anterior part is imbedded in fat continuous with that I fie3 between the masseter and buccinator muscles; the insertion of the endon is mainly concealed by the lower jaw. Between the muscle and the bone o the temporal fossa are the deep temporal arteries and nerves, which penetrate substance. In contact with the deep surface of the muscle near its insertion e juccal nerve descends, and at the posterior border of the insertion the masseteric nerve and artery emerge. n . lc lu^ernal pterygoid muscle arises from the pterygoid fossa ; its ,, r^s’ tendinous and fleshy, being attached mostly to the inner surface ,i le G^tcrnal pterygoid plate, and that portion of the tuberosity of • ha afc.e'bone which is situated between the pterygoid plates. Thence s me med downwards, with a direction backwards and outwards, and