449 ILIO-LUMBAR AND LATERAL SACRAL ARTERIES. Varieties.—The ilio-lumbar artery sometimes arises from the internal iliac above the division of that trunk ; and more rarely from the common hac The iliac and lumbar portions sometimes arise separately from the paient trunk. Fig. 287.—Arteries of the Back of the Pelvis and Upper Part of the Thigh (from Tiedemann). \ a, crest of the ilium ; b, tuber- osity of the ischium and lower attachment of the great sacro- sciatic ligament; c, great tro- chanter ; d, integument round the anus; e, great sciatic nerve; 1, trunk of the gluteal artery as it issues from the great sacro-sciatie foramen, the superficial branches cut short, the deep arch seen pass- ing round on the upper part of the gluteus minimus muscle ; 2, placed on the great sacro-sciatic ligament, points to the pudic artery at the place where it winds over the hack of the spine of the ischium; 2', the continuation of the artery towards the perineum on the in- side of the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium ; 3, 3, the sciatic artery, the upper figure placed on the pyriformis muscle, the lower on the great sciatic nerve ; 4, 4', first perforating branch of the femoral anastomosing with the pos- terior branch of the internal circum- flex artery, which appears between the quadratus and the abductor mus- cles ; 5 and 6, part of the second and third perforating arteries. Fig. 287. When the lowest of the lumbar arteries is wanting it is replaced by a branch from the ilio-lumbar, which is increased in size, and by a small offset from the middle sacral artery. The lateral sacral arteries are usually two in number on each side, though occasionally they are united into one. The two arteries arise close together from the posterior division of the internal iliac. One is distributed upon the upper, and the other upon the lower part of the sacrum. Both arteries pass downwards, at the same time inclining somewhat inwards, in front of the pyriform muscle and the sacral nerves, which they supply with twigs, and reach the inner side of the anterior sacral foramina. Continuing to descend, the lower one approaches the middle line, and anastomoses with the middle sacral artery. Branches.—The lateral sacral arteries give off a series of branches which enter the anterior sacral foramina. Each of these, after having furnished within the foramen a spinal branch, which ramifies on the bones and membranes in the interior of the sacral canal, escapes by the corresponding posterior sacral foramen, and is distributed upon the dorsal surface of the sacrum to the skin and muscles. VOL. i. G G