374 ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. of them anastomose with the ascending cervical branch of the subclavian artery. 00 The meningeal branches are terminal twigs, • which pass through the foramen lacerum posticum and anterior condylar foramen, to end in the dura mater. Varieties.—This artery varies greatly in its place of origin from the carotid. It occasionally springs from the occipital or internal carotid, and, in a few instances, it has been seen double. INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The internal carotid artery is distributed to the brain, to the eye ■with its appendages, and in part to the forehead. It extends directly upwards from the termination of the common carotid artery, opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, to the carotid foramen of the temporal bone. Entering the cranial cavity through the carotid canal, it crosses the foramen lacerum medium, and turning upwards on the side of the sphenoid bone, it passes forward on the carotid groove of that bone. Thence it turns abruptly upwards on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, and divides opposite the inner end of the Sylvian fissure of the brain, into the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. In the neclc, the internal carotid artery varies in length according to the height of the division of the common carotid. It rests on the rectus anticus major muscle, and has the pharynx and tonsil on its inner side. The internal jugular vein is in contact with it as far as the base of the skull, lying on its superficial and posterior aspect: and placed more deeply behind it are the vagus nerve and main trunk of the sympathetic. At its commencement the artery is covered only by the sterno-mastoid muscle, by the platysma myoides, and by fascia, and lies to the outer side of the external carotid. It soon, however, becomes concealed by the parotid gland, and lies internal and posterior to the external carotid trunk, and is crossed first by the occipital artery, and by the hypoglossal nerve and the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, three structures which lie superficial to both carotid arteries ; and higher up, by the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which, together with, in some cases, the pha- ryngeal branch of the vagus nerve, pass forwards between the external and internal carotid arteries. Within the cranium, the internal carotid artery has a very tortuous course, curving forwards and inwards within the carotid canal, then turning upwards to reach the sphenoid bone, on which it is at first directed horizontally forwards, and afterwards resumes the vertical position on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process. In this part of its course the artery is accompanied by the carotid and caver- nous plexuses of the sympathetic nerve. After leaving the carotid canal, it lies in the floor of the cavernous sinus, jmd in contact with it externally are the nerves which pass through the sphenoidal fissure. Opposite the anterior clinoid process it pierces the layer of dura mater which forms the roof of the sinus, and becomes invested with arachnoid membrane. Varieties. In very rare cases of abnormal arrangement of the arch of the aorta, the internal carotid artery has arisen as a primary trunk. A few examples of its entire absence are recorded.