438 COMMON ILIAC ARTERY. Ihe common iliac artery of the right side is separated from the front of the last lumbar vertebra, the two common iliac veins being inter- posed. The artery of the left side is crossed by the branches of the inferior mesenteric vessels. Relation to Veins.—The left iliac vein, supported on the last lumbar vertebra, lies to the inner side of, and below the left artery. On the right side there are three veins in proximity to the artery; the right iliac vein lying behind the lower part of the vessel, the left iliac vein Fig. 281. Fig. 281.—View op THE RIGHT SIDE OP a Male Pelvis ' Showing the ex- ternal and in- ternal Iliac Ar- teries and their branches. (A.T.) ^ The viscera of th& pelvis have been re-1 moved as well as the ; internal iliac veins: the larger nerves have been,' retained, a, body of the fifth lumbar ver- tebra ; b, anterior and,i superior spine of the right ilium; c, left auricular surface of the sacrum ; c', third, piece of the sacrum; cl, first piece of the coccyx ; c, short sacro® sciatic ligament; /, tuberosity of the is- chium covered inter- nally by the great j sacro-sciatic ligament; //, obturator foramen; 1, iliacus muscle; 1, abdominal aorta; l'» middle sacral artery; : 2, 2, common iliac ar- teries ; 2', right exter-. nal iliac ; 3, vena cava inferior; 4, 4, com- mon iliac veins ; the number on the right points by a line to the right internal iliac artery ; 4', right external iliac vein ; 5, placed on the lumbo-sacral nervous trunk, points to the posterior division of the internal iliac artery giving off the gluteal; 5', ilio-lumbar artery ; 5", lateral sacral artery with branches passing into the anterior sacral foramina ; 6, placed on the anterior division of the first sacral nerve, points to the sciatic artery coming from the anterior division of the internal iliac ; 7, pudic artery ; 7', the same artery passing behind the spine of the ischium, and proceeding within the ischium and obturator internus muscle, accompanied by the pudic nerve towards the perinmum; towards /, inferior liamorrhoidal branches are given off ; 7", superficial perineal artery and nerve ; 8, hypogastric artery, with the obliterated remains of the umbilical artery cut short, and 8', superior vesical branches rising from it ; 9, obturator artery with the corresponding nerve and vein ; 9, the pubic twigs which anastomose with descending twigs of the epigastric artery; 1®, inferior vesical ; 11, middle haunorrhoidal vessels rising in this instance from the pudic; 12, epigastric artery winding to the inside of +, + , the vas deferens and spermatic cord; 13, circumflex iliac artery; 14, spermatic artery and vein divided superiorly; 15, t'n83 of the ilio-lumbar artery proceeding to anastomose with the circumflex iliac.