84 BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. usually pierces the inferior surface of the spine, and others are to he lound on the anterior surface of the bone, near the neck. THE CLAVICLE. The clavicle or collar-bone extends transversely outwards, with an inclination backwards, from the summit of the sternum to the acro- mion process of the scapula, and connects the upper limb with the trunk. It is curved somewhat like an italic f: the convexity of the internal curve is directed forwards, and extends over two-thirds of the length of the bone ; that of the outer curve looks backwards, and is most marked near the outer fourth of the bone. The clavicle, towards its scapular end, is compressed and broad from above downwards, but in the extent of its inner curve it is more or less prismatic or cylindrical. In its description, four surfaces of the sliaft may be distinguished, together with the two extremities. Fig. 70. Fig. 70. —The Right Cla- vicle. (A. T.) i . A, from above; B, from below. 1, sternal end ; 2, acromial end ; 2', small facet for arti- culation with the acromion ; 3, groove on the lower surface for the subclavius ** muscle ; 4, rough elevation at the place of attachment of the coraco-clavicular liga- ments ; 5, rough depression at the place of attachment of the costo-clavicular or rhomboid ligament; 6, in front, the mark of the attachment of the pectoralis major ; 7, that of the deltoid muscle. The superior surface is broadest in its outer part; it is principally subcutaneous, but near the inner extremity presents a slight roughness,, marking the clavicular attachment of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle- The anterior surface opposite the outer curve is a mere rough border,, from which the deltoid muscle takes origin, but in the inner half of its extent is broadened out into an uneven space more or less distinctly separated from the inferior surface, and giving attachment to the- pectoralis major muscle. The posterior surface is broadest at the inner extremity, and smooth in the whole extent of the internal curvature ; but towards its outer extremity it forms a narrow rough border which, separates it from the superior surface, and gives attachment to the trapezius muscle. On the inferior surface an elongated roughness near the scapular extremity marks the attachment of the coraco-clavicular ligaments; extending inwards from this, over the middle third of the bone, is a groove in which the subclavius muscle is inserted ; and near the sternal end is a smaller rough depression, to which the costo- clavicular ligament is attached. On this surface also is found the open- ing of a small nutritious foramen. The sternal end is the thickest part of the clavicle. It presents a somewhat triangular concavo-couvex surface, with its most prominent