11 VARIOUS FORMS OF THE SKULL. and stapes (according to Huxley and Parker) ; and 5th, the lower or thyro-hyoid ; following which, 6th, &c., are the branchial plates, which, though never attaining even the cartilaginous condition in the foetus of man and the higher animals, yet give indications of the tendency to the continuation backwards of visceral arches in the region between the head and the trunk. The origin of the walls of the cranial cavity from the same embryonic elements as the vertebrce, and the prolongation of the notochord of the embryo into the substance of the hasioccipital and part of the basisplienoid bones, are of themselves strong arguments in support of the central character of these two osseous elements. But. on the other hand, it is to be remarked that the notochord does not reach the region of the sella turcica, but is directed towards the dorsum sellar, and thus leaves a part of the basisphenoid and the whole of the presphenoid and meseth- moid unoccupied by any true central or vertebral axis. And according to Parker's views the last-named parts, arising in the trabeculae cranii, are originally double, and only secondarily become mesial and single. Further, it is contended that there is not, as occurs throughout the whole of the vertebral column, any primary divi- sion of the formative cartilage marking out four or even two of these centres of the basis of the skull, and it is only after ossification has begun separately in each that the divisions between them become apparent. The similarity of construction, then, implied in the vertebrate theory of the skull belongs chiefly to the region of the occipital bone ; and while it may be admitted that in other parts of the skull further forward there are circumstances of correspondence with the vertebrate plan, yet in these there are also differences, and we must therefore await the fuller and more certain determination of several homological points, at present involved in doubt, before any general theory of cranial morphology worthy of general adoption can be framed. (See especially W. K. Parker’s paper on the “ Structure and Development of the Skull in the Pig,” Phil. Trans., 1873 ; and in addition to the works previously referred to, Cleland, “On the Relations of the Vomer,” &c., Trans. Roy. Soc., 1S62: Spix, “ Cephalogenesis,” 1815 ; Hallman, “ Die Vergleich. Anat. des Schlafenbeins ” 1837. THE VARIOUS FORMS OF THE SKULL. I. Differences according' to Age.—In the earlier stages of its development the posterior part of the cranium bears a very large proportion to the anterior part ; so much so, that in the second month of foetal life the line of the tentorium cerebelli is vertical to the basis cranii, and divides the cranial cavity almost Fig. 65.—Lateral View of the Child’s Head at Birth (from Leisliman). 4 This figure shows the peculiarly elongated form of the skull in the child, and the small proportion which the facial bears to the cranial part, and also the interval left between the parietal, occipital, and temporal bones sometimes called lateral fontanelles. The lines indicate the various dia- meters. equally into two parts. The pari- etal region then increases rapidly in volume, along with the in- creased development of the cere- bral hemispheres ; the frontal region next augments; and again, in the latter part of foetal life, the occipital region increases as the cerebrum extends backwards (Cleland). At the time of birth the parietal region has reached its largest development in proportion to the occipital and frontal regions. The greatest frontal breadth is then smaller in proportion to that between the parietal eminences than afterwards. In the Fig. 65. f