152 ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. extends from the centre of the head of the radius to the styloid process of the Fig. 138. Fig. 138.—A, Front, and B, BACK VIEW OF THE Articulations of the Forearm, Wrist and Hand, j 1, the internal lateral ligament of the elbow-joint; 2, the external lateral; 8, the anterior ; 4, the posterior ; 5, orbicular ligament of the radius ; 6, interosseous mem- brane ; 7, oblique or round ligament; 8, internal lateral ligament of the wrist ; 9, external; 10, anterior ; 11, posterior; 12, palmar, and 13, dorsal carpo-metacarpal ligaments ; 14, ligaments connecting metacarpal bones; 15, transverse metacarpal ligament; 16, carpo-meta- carpal ligament of the thumb ; 17, lateral liga- ments connecting the phal- angeal with the metacarpal bones; 18, lateral ligaments of the phalanges. THE ELBOW-JOINT. The lower extremity of the humerus is in contact with the ulna P? h\ M and radius at the elbow, and forms with them a hinge-joint. W The greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna arti- culates with the troch- lea of the humerus, so as to admit of flexion and extension only; while the cup-shaped depression on the head cf the radius is fitted to turn freely on the rounded capitulum. These bones are united principally by lateral ligaments. The internal lateral ligament, composed of diverging and radiat- ing fibres, is divisible into an anterior and a posterior part. The anterior part radiates from the front of the internal condylar eminence of the humerus, and is inserted into the coronoid process, along the inner margin of the sigmoid cavity. The posterior part, of the same triangular form, passes from the under and back part of the condylar eminence downwards to the inner border of the olecranon ; and some fibres are connected with a small transverse band, which passes over the notch between the olecranon and the coronoid process. The external lateral ligament, intimately connected with the tendinous attachment of the extensor muscles, is shorter and much