THE CRANIAL NERVES. 580 and are separated one from the other by the nasal branch of the oph- thalmic nerve. 1 The upper, the smaller part, is directed inwards over the optic nerve to the superior rectus muscle of the eye and the elevator of the eyelid to both of which muscles it furnishes branches. The lower and larger portion of the nerve separates into three branches; of these one reaches the inner rectus; another the lower rectus; and the third, the longest of the three, runs onwards between the lower and the outer rectus, and terminates below the ball of the eye in the inferior oblique muscle. The last-mentioned branch is connected with the lower part of the lenticular ganglion by a short thick cord, and gives two filaments to the lower rectus muscle. The several branches of the third nerve enter the muscles to which they are distributed on the surface which in each is turned towards the eyeball. Varieties.—A branch of the third nerve has been found supplying the external rectus in a case in which the sixth nerve was wanting (Generali, quoted by Henle). The branch to the inferior oblique muscle was seen by Arnold to pass through the lower part of the lenticular ganglion ; and by Henle to pierce the inferior rectus. In the outer wall of the sinus the third nerve is said to be connected with the first division of the fifth nerve, and with the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. Position of certain nerves at the cavernous sinus, and as they enter the orbit.—There are several nerves, besides the third, placed close together at the cavernous sinus, and entering the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure. To avoid repetition hereafter, the rela- tive positions of these nerves may now be described. The nerves thus associated are the third, the fourth, the ophthalmic divisions of the fifth, and the sixth. At the cavernous sinus.—In the dura mater which bounds the cavernous sinus on the outer side, the third and fourth nerves and the ophthalmic division of the fifth are placed, as regards one another, in their numerical order both from above downwards and from within out- wards. The sixth nerve is placed separately from the others close to the carotid artery, on the floor of the sinus and internally to the fifth nerve. Near the sphenoidal fissure, through which they enter the orbit, the relative position of the nerves is changed, the sixth nerve being here close to the rest, and their number is augmented by the division of the third and the ophthalmic nerves—the former into two, the latter into three parts. In the sphenoidal fissure.—The fourth and the frontal and lachrymal branches of the fifth, which are here higher than the rest, lie on the same level, the fourth being the nearest to the inner side, and euter the orbit above the muscles. The remaining nerves pass between the heads of the outer rectus muscle, in the following order from above downwards; the upper division of the third, the nasal branch of the fifth, the lower division of the third, and, lowest of all, the sixth. FOURTH PAIR OF NERVES. The fourth (nervus trochlearis, n. patheticus) is the smallest of the cranial nerves, and is distributed entirely to the upper oblique muscle of the orbit. Surface attachment.—Each nerve appears at the outer side of the