31 BONES OF THE HEAD.—OCCIPITAL. body, and imperfect union of tlie first, second, and third pieces of the body, while the third and fourth are united. D, example of a sternum at birth with an unusual number of ossific centres, six in the manubrium, 1', which is very uncommon ; two pairs in the lower pieces of the body 3' & 4', which is not unusual; 2, the single centre of the first piece of the body. E, example of the perforated sternum, which probably depends upon the imperfect union of the pairs of ossific nuclei sho%vn in D in the lower part of the body ; this figure also shows two epistemal bones or granules, * *. C, and E, are reduced below the size of nature. a single centre in the prestemum. The next centre appears at the seventh month in the upper segment of the mesostemum, and ossification follows in the next two segments shortly before birth. In the lower segments, ossification begins in the first year or later, and in the metastemum not before the sixth year, and often much later. In the prestemum occasionally two centres of ossi- fication appear, one above the other. In the upper segment of the mesostemum the centre is most commonly single, but in each of the following segments there are frequently two placed one on each side of the middle line. The lower seg- ments of the mesostemum unite together after puberty, but the upper one often remains separate till after the twenty-fifth year. The metastemum is united to the mesostemum in middle life, the prestemum in more advanced life. The bony parts formed from the lateral centres of the lower segments of the meso- stemum, as well as of the metastemum, not unfrequently remain separate for a considerable time, and occasionally, by defect of ossification or non-union across the middle line, have a permanent median aperture in the bone—the so-called foramen sternale. The metastemum is sometimes bifid, and in rare cases the mesostemum has been found divided to a greater or less extent from below upwards, constituting the malformation of fissura stemi, and connected in some instances with ectopia cordis. (See the case of E. Groux, described by Allp-n Thomson in the Glasgow Med. Journal, 1858.) III.—THE BONES OP THE HEAD. The skull, comprising the bones of the head, is of a spheroidal figure, compressed on the sides, broader behind than before, and supported on the vertebral column. All its bones, with the exception of the lower jaw, are almost immovably united together by lines and narrow surfaces, more or less uneven, termed sutures. The skull is divided by anatomists into two parts, the cranium and the face. The cranium protects the brain ; the face surrounds the mouth and nasal passages, and completes with the cranium the orbits or cavities for the eyes. The cranium is composed of eight bones, viz.: the occipital, two parietal, the frontal, two temporal, the sphenoid, and the ethmoid. The face is com- posed of fourteen bones, of which twelve are in pairs, viz.: the superior maxillary,, malar, nasal, palate, lachrymal, and inferior turbinated bones; and two single, viz., the vomer, and the inferior maxilla. There is also suspended by ligaments from the under surface of the cranium, the hyoid bone, which may be classed with the bones of the head. THE OCCIPITAL BONE. The occipital bone is situated at the lower and back part of the cranium. In general form it is rhomboidal, and through its lower and anterior part passes a large oval foramen, forming the communication between the cranium and spinal canal. The portion of the bone behind the foramen is tabular, the narrower part in front forms a thick mass named basilar process, and the parts on the sides of the foramen, bearing