TEMPORAL ARTERY. 3G9 external carotid artery ; 16, trunk of the internal carotid artery ; 17, 17, inside the thvroid axis of the subclavian artery, and on the inferior thyroid artery where it is distributed in the gland ; 18, superior thyroid artery, anastomosing in the gland with the inferior thyroid ; 19, lingual artery, brought into view by the removal of the lower part of the hyo-glossus muscle ; 20, facial artery, giving off the palatine, tonsillitic and submental; 21, inferior labial ; 22, coronary artery ; 23, occipital artery ; 24, pos- terior auricular artery ; 25, superficial temporal artery ; 26, internal maxillary artery ; 27, transverse facial, given off in this instance directly by the external carotid 4 artery. ' i i > artery is deeply seated in the parotid gland, through the substance of which it runs nearly horizontally forwards ; getting between the parotid duct and the zygoma, it rests on the masseter muscle, and is accompanied by one ox- two transverse branches of the facial nerve. It gives small vessels to the parotid gland, the masseter muscle, and the neighbouring integument; and divides into three or four bi'anches, which are disti'ibuted to the side of the face, anasto- mosing with the infra-orbital and facial arteries. (J) The middle temporal branch. This arises close above the zygoma, and immediately perforating the temporal fascia, sends branches to the temporal muscle, which communicate with the deep temporal branches of the internal maxillary artery. An offset from this artery runs to the outer angle of the orbit, where it gives branches to the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. (c) The anterior auricular branches, two or more in number, superior and inferior. These branches arise above the middle temporal. They are distributed to the fore-part of the pinna, the lobe of the ear, and a part of the external meatus, anastomosing with the ramifications of the posterior auricular artery. (d) The anterior temporal branch, one of the two terminal branches of the temporal artery. This vessel inclines forwards as it ascends over the temporal fascia, and ramifies extensively upon the forehead, supplying the orbicular and occipito-frontal muscles, the pericranium, and the skin, and communicating with the supra-orbital and frontal branches of the ophthalmic artery. On the upper part of the cranium the branches of this artery are directed from before back- wards. When it is desired to take blood from the temporal artery, the anterior temporal branch is selected for the operation. (e) The posterior temporal branch. This is usually larger than the anterior, passes back on the side of the head, above the ear, and over the temporal fascia; its branches ramify freely in the coverings of the cranium, both upwards to the vertex, where they communicate with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, and backwards to join with the occipital and posterior auricular arteries. Varieties.—The temporal artery is frequently tortuous, especially in aged persons. Occasionally a large unusual branch runs forward above the zygoma, to the upper part of the orbit. The temporal artery sometimes joins with the ophthalmic and furnishes large frontal arteries. The anterior temporal branch is sometimes larger than the posterior, and passing backwards over the vertex of the head, communicates with the occipital. The transverse artery of the face varies in size ; occasionally it is much larger than usual, and takes the place of a defective facial artery. In some instances the transverse artery arises directly from the external carotid. 7. Internal Maxillary Artery.—The internal maxillary or deep •: facial artery, the larger of the two terminal branches of the external ! carotid, is concealed by the parotid gland at its origin below the con- i dyle of the jaw; it cuiwes horizontally forwards between the jaw and j the.internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary joint, then passes obliquely forwards and upwards on the outer surface of the external ' pterygoid muscle (not unfrequently beneath and within it), and opposite ; the interval between the two heads of that muscle, bends inwards to the spheno-maxillary fossa, where it ends by division into a number of ■ branches.