402 arteries of the upper limp. (a) r|''ic superior profunda artery arises from the inner and back part. of the_ brachial, just below the border of the teres major and inclines inwards and backwards, to reach the interval between the outer and inner heads of the triceps muscle. Accompanied by the musculo-spiral nerve, it winds round the back of the humerus, in the spiral groove, under cover of the triceps, and perforating the external intermuscular septum, reaches the external and anterior aspect of the bone.. There the artery lies deeply in the interval between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus muscles, considerably dimin- ished in size by having given off several branches, and descends to the elbow, where it anastomoses with the recurrent branch of the radial artery. Branches.—The superior profunda gives off branches in its first part to the deltoid, coraco-brachialis, and triceps ; and many to the last-named muscle, whilst it is between it and the bone. In this position it also gives one long branch, which descends perpendicularly between the muscle and the bone to the back part of the elbow-joint on the outer side, where it anastomoses with the inter- osseous recurrent branch; and another which anastomoses on the inner side > with the ulnar recurrent and the anastomotic or the inferior profunda. (b) The inferior profunda artery of small size, arises from the • brachial artery a little below the middle of the arm, and is directed to the back part of the inner condyle of the humerus. Descending in company : with the ulnar nerve, it pierces the intermuscular septum, then lies on the inner surface of the triceps muscle, to which it gives branches, and entering the interval between the olecranon and inner condyle, it terminates by inosculating with the posterior recurrent branch of the ulnar artery, and with the anastomotic branch of the brachial. (c) The nutrient artery of the shaft of the humerus is a small branch given off by the brachial about the middle of the arm, or by one of its collateral branches. It inclines downwards, enters the oblique canal in the humerus near the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle, and is distributed in the interior of the bone. (cl) The anastomotic artery is a very constant branch of moderate size. Arising from the brachial artery about two inches above the bend of the arm, it is directed transversely inwards on the brachialis anticus muscle, above the inner condyle of the humerus, and, after perforating the intermuscular septum, turns outwards behind the humerus, between the bone and the triceps muscle, and forms with the superior profunda an arch across the humerus, immediately above the olecranon fossa (arcus dorsalis humeri posticus,—Haller). In front of thefrnunerus the anastomotic artery furnishes a branch which ramifies in the pronator teres, and anastomoses with the anterior ulnar recurrent branch. Behind the inner condyle another offset joins with the posterior ulnar recurrent, and behind the humerus several branches are given to the joint and the muscle. Varieties.—From their comparative frequency, and surgical interest, the peculiarities of the brachial artery, especially those which affect its trunk, deserve particular attention. Course.—The brachial artery sometimes lies in front of the median nerve, instead of behind it. The brachial artery has been seen, though rarely, to descend, accompanied by the median nerve, towards the inner condyle of the humerus, and regain its usual position at the bend of the elbow by passing forwards underneath a fibrous