470 ARTERIES OF THE LOWER limb. ??fc^ard8 7°n the tarsal k°nes covered by the 011 extensor muscle of the toes, then curving backwards towards the p;„ 3nl cuboid bone, divides into branches which take different directions over the tarsus. tig. 301.—Anterior view op the Arteries op the Leo and Dorsdsi op the Foot (from Tiedemann). \ The tibialis anticus muscle is drawn towards the inner side so as to bring the anterior tibial artery into view, the extensor proprius pollicis, the long common extensor of the toes, and the peroneus tertius muscles in their lower part, and the whole of the extensor communis brevis, have been removed. 1, external superior articular branch of the popliteal artery, ramifying on the parts surrounding the knee ; and anastomosing with the other articular branches, and with 2, the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial artery; 3, 3, anterior tibial, giving off muscular branches on each side ; 4, dorsal artery of the foot ; 5, external anterior malleolar artery coming ofi from the anterior tibial and anastomosing with the anterior peroneal artery which is seen descending upon the lower part of the fibula; the internal malleolar is represented proceeding from the other side of the anterior tibial artery ; 6, the tarsal branch of the dorsal artery, represented in this instance as larger than usual and furnishing some of the branches of the next artery ; 7, the metatarsal branch, giving off the dorsal interosseous arteries ; (in the first interosseous space the dorsal arteiy of the foot is seen to give off the anastomosing branch which unites with the deep plantar arch ;) between 8 and 8, the collateral branches of the dorsal digital arteries. Its branches supply the extensor brevis digitorum muscle and the tarsal joints, and anastomose with the external plantar, the metatarsal, the external malleolar, and the peroneal arteries. (b) The metatarsal artery arises farther forwards than the preceding vessel, and is directed outwards like it, beneath the short extensor muscle. Sometimes there are two metatarsal arteries, the second being of smaller size ; and not unfrequently, when there is but a single vessel of this name, it arises in com- mon with the tarsal artery. Its direction is necessarily influenced by these circumstances ; being oblique when it arises far back, and almost transverse when its origin is situated farther forwards than usual. It anastomoses with the tarsal and external plantar arteries, and gives off interosseous branches. The three interosseous branches are small straight vessels which pass forwards along the three outer interosseous spaces, resting upon the dorsal inter- osseous muscles. Somewhat behind the clefts be- tween the toes each divides into two branches, which run forward along the contiguous borders of the corresponding toes, forming their dorsal collateral