22C MUSCLES AND FASCI2E OF THE LOWER LIMB. II.—MUSCLES AND FASCI2E OP THE LOWER LIMB. The muscles which pass between the trunk and the lower limb, viz., the psoas, pyriformis, coccygcus, and part of the gluteus maximus, are so few in number and so intimately connected with others belonging strictly to the limb, that it is unnecessary to describe them as a dis- tinct group, as has been done in the case of the more numerous and considerable muscles which attach the upper limb to the trunk. FASCIZE OF THE HIP AND THIGH. The superficial fascia of the lower limb is similar to and continuous with that of other parts of the body. Over the gluteal region it is very thick, and assists in forming the prominence of the buttock. On the front of the thigh it is readily divisible into two layers. Of these the subcutaneous passes freely over Poupart’s ligament, and is continuous with the subcutaneous layer of the abdominal fascia ; internally it passes into the tunica dartos of the scrotum and superficial fascia of the perinaeum. The deeper layer is separated from the subcutaneous by the superficial vessels and lymphatics, and is continuous superiorly and internally with the deeper layer of the superficial fascia of the abdomen. It is firmly bound down to Poupart’s ligament, to the front of the fascia lata of the thigh at its upper part, and to the body and ramus of the pubis. It also covers in and partially fills up the saphenous opening of the fascia lata, where from its being perforated by numerous small foramina for the passage of blood-vessels and lymphatics, it receives the name of cribriform fascia. It is a very thin membrane,.! and does not contain much fat. It gradually disappears by becoming;[ incorporated with the fascia lata about three inches below the groin. The deep fascia or fascia lata of the thigh is a thin but strong | aponeurotic membrane, consisting of white shining fibrous tissue, quite i devoid of fat, and forming a continuous sheath round the limb. It is- attached superiorly to the posterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx,.[ to the crest of the ilium, to Poupart’s ligament, to the body and ramus- of the pubis, and to the ramus and tuberosity of the ischium. In the gluteal region it descends on the surface of the gluteus medius muscle, | as far as the upper border of the gluteus maximus, where it divides- into two layers, one of which passes on the superficial, the other on the deep surface of that muscle. After encasing the muscle, the layers- unite at its lower and external borders. Over the great trochanter, where the layers unite externally, and where also the fascia is much thickened, the upper fibres of the muscle are inserted between the layers. This thickened portion of the fascia may be traced downwards , on the outside of the thigh, from the crest of the ilium to the outer tuberosity of the tibia, and to the head of the fibula. This ilio-tibial band consists of dense glistening parallel fibres, and about the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the thigh it receives the insertion of the tensor vaginas femoris muscle. On the rest of the thigh the fascia lata varies in thickness. It is thinnest in the upper and inner part of the thigh, where it covers the adductor muscles. Near the knee it is considerably strengthened by tendinous expansions given off from the lower parts of the extensor and flexor muscles of the knee-joint. In front of the thigh, a little below and external to the inner end ol