Fig. 295.—View op the Popliteal Artery and its Fig. 295. ARTERIES OF TIIE LOWER LIMB. (5) The upper external articular artery passes outwards a little above the outer 462 00 The superior branches, three or four in number, are distributed to the lower ends of the hamstring muscles, as also to the vasti muscles, and anastomose with the perforating and articular arteries. BRANCnEs in the Right Leg (from Tiedemann). \ a, biceps muscle; h, semi-membranosus; c, semi- tendinosus; 1, the popliteal artery ; 2, 3, the superficial sural branches; 4, the outer, 5, the inner superior articular branch ; 6, the superior muscular ; 7, the inferior muscular or deep sural branches. (5) The inferior muscular branches, or sural arteries, usually two in number, and of considerable size, arise from the back of the popliteal artery, opposite the knee-joint, and enter, one the outer and the other the inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle, which they supply, as well as the fleshy part of the plantaris muscle. Over the surface of the gastrocnemius will be found at each side, and in the middle of the limb, slender branches, which descend a considerable distance along the calf of the leg, and end in the integument. These small vessels (superficial sural) arise separately from the popliteal artery, or from some of its branches. 2. The articular arteries. Two of these pass off nearly at right angles from the pop- liteal artery, one to each side, above the flexure of the joint, whilst two have a similar arrange- ment below it, and a fifth passes from behind into the centre of the j oint. (a) The upper internal articular artery winds round the femur just above the inner condyle; and, passing under the tendon of the great adductor and the vastus intemus, divides into two branches; one of these, comparatively super- ficial, enters the substance of the vastus, and inosculates with the anastomotic branch of the femoral, and with the lower internal articular artery. The other branch runs close to the femur, ramifies upon it, and also on the knee-joint, and communicates with the upper external articular artery. condyle of the femur, under cover of the biceps muscle, and, after perforating the intermuscular septum, divides into a superficial and a deep branch. The latter, lying close upon the femur, spreads branches upon it and the articulation, and communicates with the preceding vessel, with the anastomotic of the femoral, and with the lower external articular artery; the superficial branch descends through the vastus to the patella, anastomosing with other branches and assisting in the supply of the joint. (c) The lower internal articular artery passes downwards below the internal tuberosity of the tibia, lying between the bone and the internal lateral ligament; its branches ramify on the front and inner part of the joint, as far as the patella and its ligament. (e7) The lower external articular artery takes its course outwards, under cover of the outer head of the gastrocnemius in the first instance, and afterwards under the external lateral ligament of the knee and the tendon of the biceps muscle, passing above the head of the fibula. Having reached the fore part of the ’joint, it divides near the patella into branches, some of which communi- cate with the lower articular artery of the opposite side, and with the recurrent