THE SIIOULDER-JOINT. 119 down the humerus on the internal or inferior aspect, and is strongest on the superior aspect. It is so lax that the humerus separates from the glenoid cavity as soon as its muscular connections are detached. Superiorly and posteriorly the capsule is strengthened by the tendons of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor muscles, which are intimately connected with it as they pass over it to reach the great tuberosity of the humerus. Anteriorly the tendon of the subscapularis muscle comes into direct contact with the synovial membrane, which is prolonged upon it through an oval opening. The insertion of the capsule is likewise interrupted opposite the bicipital groove, to give passage to the long tendon of the biceps muscle. The coraco-humeraj, or accessory ligament, is a broad bundle of fibres extending obliquely over the upper and outer part of the articu- lation ; it is attached to the root of the coracoid process, and thence descends towards the greater tuberosity of the humerus, intimately connected with the capsule. A few fibres of the coraco-humeral liga- ment project into the joint, and are inserted into the inner and upper part of the bicipital groove ; these have been called the gleno-hwneral ligament, and are supposed to correspond with the ligamentum teres of the hip joint. Fig. 135. Fig. 135. A Section through the Shoulder-Joint, Tendon of the Biceps ani* Bicipital Groove, showing somewhat Diagrammatically the Synovial Cavity of the Joint, &c. (A. T.) * B, Outline of the same, to show the reflection of the Synovial Membrane over the Tendon. 1, outer part of the clavicle ; 2, the acromial end ; 3, the cavity of the shoulder- ioint close to the upper part of the glenoid head, where there are seen the section of the carti- lages on the head of the humerus and in the glenoid cavity of the scapula, the glenoid igament and the origin of the tendon of the biceps muscle ; 4, the glenoid ligament in the lower part of the cavity ; 5, the upper part of the capsular ligament and synovial mem- :a"V tl'e tendon of the biceps as it passes out of the joint into the bicipital groove ; ’ 0 > “e tubular prolongation of the synovial membrane round the tendon ; 7, the renection ot the synovial membrane on the humerus within the lower part of the capsular Hit; glenoid ligament is a firm fibrous band, about two lines thick, y\i,ci is fixed to the edge of the glenoid fossa, and thus deepens