540 THE CRANIAL NERVES. nerve, and tliree or four in number, are continued downwards beneath the proper elevator of the upper lip. Ramifying as they descend, these nerves are distri- buted to the integument, the mucous membrane of the mouth, the labial glands, and the muscles of the upper lip. Near the orbit the infraorbital branches of the superior maxillary nerve are joined by considerable branches of the facial nerve, the union between the two being named infraorbital plexus. Spheno-Palatine Ganglion. The spheno-palatine ganglion, frequently named Meckel’s or the nasal ganglion, is deeply placed in the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno-palatine foramen. It receives the two spheno-palatine branches which descend together from the superior maxillary nerve as it crosses the top of the fossa. It is of greyish colour, triangular in form, and convex on the outer surface. Its diameter is about the fifth of an inch. The grey or ganglionic substance does not involve all the fibres of the spheno-palatine branches of the upper maxillary nerve, but is placed at the back part, at the point of junction of the sympathetic or deep branch of the Yidian, so that the spheno-palatine nerves proceeding to the nose and palate pass to their destination without being incorporated with the ganglionic mass. Branches proceed from the ganglion upwards to the orbit, downwards to the palate, inwards to the nose, and backwards through the Yidian and pterygo-palatine canals. Ascending branches.—These consist of three or more very small twigs, which reach the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, and are distributed to the periosteum. Bock describes a branch ascending from the ganglion to the sixth nerve ; Tiede- mann, one to the lower angle of the ophthalmic ganglion. The filaments described hy Hirzel as ascending to the optic nerve, most probably join the ciliary twigs which surround that nerve. Descending branches.—These are three in number,—the large, the small, and the external palatine nerves, and are continued chiefly from the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary. They are distributed to the tonsil, the hard and soft palate, the gums, and the mucous membrane of the nose. a. The larger or anterior palatine nerve descends in the palato-maxillary canal, and divides in the roof of the mouth into branches, which are received into grooves in the hard palate, and extend forwards nearly to the incisor teeth. In the mouth it supplies the gums, the glands, and the mucous membrane of the hard palate, and joins in front with the naso-palatine nerve. When enter- ing its canal, this palatine nerve gives a nasal branch which ramifies on the middle and lower spongy bones; and a little before leaving the canal, another Branch is supplied to the membrane covering the lower spongy bone : these are inferior nasal branches. Opposite the lower spongy bone springs a small branch, which is continued to the soft palate in a separate canal behind the trunk of the nerve. b. The smaller or posterior palatine branch, arising near the preceding nerve, enters with a small artery the lesser palatine canal, and is conducted to the soft palate, the tonsil, and the uvula. According to Meckel, it supplies the levator palati muscle. , , e The external palatine nerve, the smallest of the senes, courses between tlie upper maxilla and the external pterygoid muscle, and enters the external palatine canal between the maxillary bone and the pterygoid process of the palate bone. At its exit from the canal it gives inwards a branch to the uvula, and outwards another to the tonsil and palate. Occasionally this nerve is altogether wanting.