251 TENDO ACHILLIS. septum which divides the muscle into lateral halves; while those from their superficial aspects pass with similar obliquity to the flat tendon on the surface of the muscle, the fibres placed at the sides forming the lateral borders and part of the deep surface ot the muscles. Thus the soleus is composed entirely of short oblique fibres of from one to two inches in length. Fi". 195.—Deep Posterior Muscles op the Leo. (A. T.) | a, popliteal surface of the femur ; b, bare surface of the upper fourth of the fibula, from which the soleus muscle has been removed ; c, malleolus in- temus ; d, malleolus extemus ; e, tuberosity of the os calcis, with a part of the tendo Achillis inserted into it, and the plantaris on its inner side ; 1, inner head of the gastrocnemius cut short at its origin ; 2, outer Lead; 3, plantaris ; 4, tendon of the semimem- branosus muscle near its insertion, seen spreading in three portions, viz., to the inside of the tibia, towards the popliteal fascia, and towards the ligamentum posticum ; 5, tendon of the biceps inserted into the head of the fibula ; 6, popliteus muscle ; 7, upper part of the origin of the soleus from the fibula, cut short ; 7', line of its tibial origin ; between these figures is seen the perforation in the upper part of the interosseous membrane ; 8, tibialis posticus ; 8', its tendon, passing between the flexor digitorum communis and the tibia ; 9, flexor digitorum com- munis ; 9', its tendon, with that of the tibialis pos- ticus, passing behind the malleolus internus ; 10, flexor longus pollicis ; 10', placed beside its tendon, where it passes over the tibia and astragalus ; 11, peroneus longus ; 11', its tendon behind that of the peroneus brevis, passing down behind the malleolus externus ; 12, peroneus brevis. Relations.—The soleus rests upon the flexor longus pollicis, flexor longus digitorum. and tibialis posticus muscles, together with the pos- terior tibial vessels and nerve, from which, how- ever, it is separated by the deep aponeurosis. Varieties.—To the soleus an accessory por- tion is occasionally added at its lower and inner part ; this usually ends on the inner side of the tendo Achillis, but it sometimes forms a tendon, attached separately to the os calcis. The tendo Achillis, the thickest and strongest tendon in the body, is formed by the union of the flat tendon of the gastro- cnemius with the thicker and more rounded tendon of the soleus. It is from three to tour inches long below the point where the muscular fibres of the soleus cease to be i a C e., it. It is inserted inferiorly into the back part of the ... ® ^ °y;, os calcis. A synovial bursa is interposed between the 11 part ot the tuberosity of the os calcis and the tendon.