HO ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. The ligamcnhim suspensonum dentis or middle odontoid ligament consists of fibres which pass directly upwards from the summit of the odontoid process to the margin of the foramen magnum. The occipito-axial ligament sometimes called apparatus ligamen- tosus colli, is the continuation upwards of the posterior common liga- ment, and by its breadth covers the cruciform and odontoid ligaments. It is attached above in the basilar groove, and below to the body of the axis. The anterior occipito-atlantal ligament extends from the ante- rior border of the occipital foramen, between the condyles, to the anterior arch of the atlas. It is thin, broad, and membranous; but in the median line it is strengthened by an accessory ligament, thick and round, placed in front of it, which is sometimes described as the com- mencement of the anterior common ligament. The anterior atlanto-axial ligament, likewise thin and mem- branous, except in the middle, where it is considerably thickened, extends from the anterior arch of the atlas to the body of the axis. The posterior occipito-atlantal ligament, thin and membranous, is attached superiorly to all that part of the margin of the occipital foramen which is behind the condyles, and inferiorly to the adjacent border of the arch of the atlas. It is partly blended with the dura mater. The posterior atlanto-axial ligament, similar to the preceding, connects the neural arch of the atlas with that of the axis, in the absence of ligamentum subflavum. Movements.—The atlanto-axial articulation is so constructed that the head, together with the atlas, is rotated on the axis ; the odontoid process serving as a pivot. The rotation is limited by the check ligaments. The occipito-atlantal articulation takes no part in rotation, but allows the head to be freely raised or depressed upon the vertebral column. When the atlas is placed symmetrically over the axis, it is seen that the opposing articular surfaces, instead of fitting one to the other, come very slightly into contact, the surface of the axis being inclined too little outwards, and presenting an antero-posterior convexity, to which there is no corresponding concavity presented by the atlas ; but a slight rotation brings the bones into a stable position, in which the anterior half of one articular surface of the axis and the posterior half of the other, are laid closely against the atlas. It will also be found that a small amoiuit of oblique motion between the atlas and occipital bone is permitted, by which the anterior half of one condyle and the posterior part of the other may be rested together on the atlas, and that that is the position of greatest stability. This oblique posi- tion is that into which the bones are brought when there is any lateral flexure of the column, as is the case in the most natural and easy attitudes. ARTICULATIONS OF THE RIBS. The articulations of the ribs may be divided into three sets, costo- central, costo-transverse, and costo-sternal. The costo-central ARTICULATION unites the head of the rib, in most instances, with the bodies of two vertebra* by two distinct synovial joints, supported by ligaments as follows. The anterior costo-central ligament, radiated or stellate, consists of three bundles, of which the middle one passes horizontally forwards upon the corresponding intervertebral fibro-cartilage, the superior ascends to the body of the vertebra above it, and the inferior descends