BONES OF TEE UPPER LIMB. 86 anterior and posterior faces by lateral lines, slightly marked in the upper and middle parts, but more prominent in the lower, where they pass into the condylar ridges. Superiorly on its anterior aspect is the bicipital groove, so named from lodging the long Fis- 72- tendon of the biceps muscle : this groove, com- mencing between the tuberosities, descends with an inclination inwards, and is bounded by two rough ridges, the external and most prominent of which gives attachment to the pectoralis major muscle, the internal to the latissimus dorsi and teres major. Towards the middle of the shaft, on the inner lateral line, is a rough linear mark where the coraco-brachialis muscle is inserted, and lower down there is a medullary foramen directed down- wards into the interior of the bone. On the external part of the shaft, near its middle, in a line ante- riorly with the external bicipital ridge, is a large, rough, and uneven surface, of a triangular shape, the impression of the deltoid muscle. Below this the external bicipital ridge is continued into a smooth elevation which, descending on the front of the shaft to the inferior extremity, separates an external from an internal surface, while at the sides two sharp edges, the external and internal condylar ridges spring from the eminences of the same name and ascend for some distance, separating the anterior from the flat posterior surface. About the middle of the shaft externally, a broad depres- sion, the spiral groove, winds downwards and for- wards, limited above by the deltoid impression and below by the external condylar ridge, and lodges the musculo-spiral nerve and the accompanying artery. Fig. 72.—Right Humerus from behind. (A. T.) J 1, 3, 8, & 10, the same as in Fig. 71 ; 15, is placed above the olecranon fossa. The inferior extremity is much enlarged later- ally, flattened from before backwards, and is curved slightly forwards. Projecting on either side are the external and internal condylar eminences (the condyles of most authors, epicondyle and epdrochlea of Chaussier), the in- ternal of which is much more prominent than the external, and is slightly inclined backwards. The inferior articular surface is divided by a ridge into two parts. The external part, articulated with the radius, con- sists of a rounded eminence directed forwards, called the capitellum, and a groove internal to it; it does not extend to the posterior sur- face. The internal part, the trochlea, articulates with the ulna, and extends completely round from the anterior to the posterior surface of the bone ; it is grooved down the middle like the surface of a pulley, and is somewhat broader behind than in front; anteriorly, its margins are inclined downwards and inwards ; posteriorly, upwards and outwards, and so that, seen from behind, it lies in the middle part