BOXES OF TIIE LOWER LIMB. 112 separated from the internal by a smooth rounded border, and from the external by a sharp ridge, inclined forwards above, to which the inter- osseous membrane is attached. Near the popliteal line is a large me- Fig. 100.—Right Tibia prom behind. (A. T.) £ • 6, and 0, as in the preceding figure ; 2', groove behind the internal tuberosity for the tendon of thesemi-mem- branosus muscle ; 10, inclined articular facet below and behind the outer tuberosity for the head of the fibula ; 11, oblique line of tibia, above which is the triangular popliteal surface ; 12, nutritious foramen directed downwards ; 13, triangular rough surface for the lower interosseous ligament, and small cartilaginous surface below it for articulation with the fibula ; 14, below a slight groove marking the place of the flexor longus pollicis muscle; 15, below the groove of the tendons of the flexor communis digitorum and tibialis posticus muscles. dullary foramen, directed downwards into the interior of the bone. The inferior extremity, much smaller than the superior, is expanded transversely, and projects downwards on its inner side, so as to form a thick process, the internal malleo- lus. Inferiorly it presents for articulation with the astragalus a cartilaginous surface, which is quadrilateral, concave from before backwards, and having its posterior border narrower and projecting farther downwards than the anterior; internally the cartila- ginous surface is continued down in a vertical direction upon the internal malleo- lus, clothing its outer surface somewhat more deeply in front than behind. The external surface, slightly concave, is rough superiorly for ligament, and smooth below for articulation with the fibula. The pos- terior surface of the internal malleolus is marked by a double groove for the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum, and more externally by a slight depression where the flexor longus pollicis lies ; the inner surface of the malleolus is subcutaneous. The tibia is slightly twisted, so that when the internal malleolus is directed inwards, the internal tuberosity is inclined backwards. THE FIBULA. Fig. 100. 6 The fibula, or peroneal lone, is situated at the outer side of the leg r it is nearly equal to the tibia in length, but is much more slender. Its inferior extremity is placed a little in advance of the superior; and its shaft is slightly curved, so as to have the convexity directed back- wards, and, in the lower half, slightly inwards towards the tibia.