THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 382 placed than the first part, it is covered by the platysma and the stemo- mastoid muscle, with layers of the cervical fascia. Behind, it rests against the middle scalenus muscle ; and below, it lies on the pleura. Relation to Veins and Nerves.—The subclavian vein is lower than the artery, and is separated from it by the anterior scalenus muscle. The phrenic nerve, which descends obliquely inwards over that muscle, usually crosses the first part of the subclavian artery of the left side close to the muscle, while on the right side, not having quite reached the margin of the muscle at the level of the artery, it is usually sepa- rated by the muscle from the second part of the artery. THE THIRD part of the subclaviah artery lies in a small triangular space, the sides of which are formed by the omo-hyoid muscle and clavicle, and the base by the anterior scalenus muscle ; the omo-hyoid is in some instances immediately over the artery. The subclavian artery is nearer to the surface here than elsewhere, being covered only bv the platysma and layers of the cervical fascia, but towards its termina- tion it becomes deeper, sinking under the clavicle and the subclavius muscle. Relation to Veins.—The subclavian vein continues to be anterior to, and lower than the artery. The external jugular vein lies over the artery, and receives on the outer side from the shoulder the two veins which accompany the supra-scapular and transverse cervical arteries. The veins in some cases form a sort of plexus over the artery. Relation to Nerves.—Above the vessel are placed the large brachial nerves, the lowest cord formed by the union of the last cervical and the first dorsal nerve being behind and in contact with it. The small nerve of the subclavius muscle passes down over the artery, and the space which lodges the artery is crossed in front by the superficial descending (clavicular) branches from the cervical plexus of nerves. Branches.—Four branches are usually described as arising from each subclavian artery. Of these, three, namely, the vertebral, the internal mammary, and the thyroid axis, generally spring close together from the first part of the artery, near the inner side of the anterior scalenus muscle ; while the fourth branch, the superior intercostal, is usually found internal to that muscle on the left side, but arising under cover of it, from the second part of the artery on the right. The vertebral artery springs from the upper and back part of the subclavian, and ascends in the neck to reach the interior of the skull; the internal mammary proceeds from the lower side of the vessel, and descends into the fore part of the chest and abdomen ; the thyroid axis arises from the front of the artery, and divides into three branches, one of which, the inferior thyroid, is distributed in the fore part of the neck, whilst the other two, the suprascapular and the transverse cervical, pass outwards across the neck to the shoulder ; lastly, the superior intercostal and deep cervical arise by a common stem from the back part of the artery, and pass into the upper part of the thoracic wall and the posterior muscles of the neck. The deep cervical is reckoned by some writers as a fifth branch of the subclavian artery, but it usually rises in common with the superior intercostal artery. Another branch, in the great majority of instances, arises from the third part of the artery. This is the posterior scapular artery, a branch which otherwise is derived from the transverse cervical, one of the divi- sions of the thyroid axis.