412 ARTERIES OF THE UITER LIMB. the annular ligament, arc given off from the upper or concave side of the palmar arch. (c) The digital branches, usually four in number, proceed downwards from the convexity of the palmar arch to supply both sides of the three inner fingers, and the ulnar side of the fore finger. The first dir/ital branch inclines inwards to the ulnar border of the hand, and, after giving minute offsets to the muscles of the little finger, runs along the inner margin of its phalanges. The second runs along the fourth metacarpal space, and at the root of the fingers divides into two branches, which proceed along the contiguous borders of the ring and little fingers. The third is similarly distributed to the ring and middle fingers ; and the fourth to the latter and the index fingers. The thumb and the radial side of the index finger are supplied from the radial artery. Fig. 269. Fig. 269.—Superficial Dissection of the lower Part of the Forearm and the Hand, show- ing the Radial and Ulnar Arteries, the Superficial Palmar Arch, and the accom- panying Nerves (from R. Quain). J a, placed on the deep fascia of the forearm, be- tween the tendons of the palmaris longus and flexor carpi radialis muscles ; b, points by a line crossing the pisiform bone to the ulnar nerve ; c, points to the styloid process of the radius and twigs of the radial nerve ; 1, radial artery lying on the flexor longus pollieis ; 1', the radial artery passing behind the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollieis and exteftsor prirni internodii pollieis ; 2, superficialis volie branch piercing the short muscles of the thumb and emerging below to join the superficial palmar arch ; 3, external branch of the princeps pollieis ; 4, radialis indicis ; a branch from the superficial arch is seen joining the internal branch of the princeps pollieis ; 5, ulnar artery lying upon the flexor digi- torum profundus ; 5', the same descending on the anterior annular ligament to form the superficial palmar arch ; 6, deep branch of the ulnar artery passing between the abductor and flexor minimi digiti to join the deep arch, accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve ; 7, branch of the super- ficial arch to the ulnar side of the little finger ; 8, division of the common branch to the 4th and 5th fingers ; 9, the same to the 3rd and 4th fingers ; 10, the same to the 2nd and 3rd fingers ; 7 and 8, are accompanied by the digital branches of the ulnar nerve, and 3, 4, 9, and 10, by the branches of the median nerve. The digital arteries are placed at first superficial to the tendous, and then they lie between them, accompanied by the digital nerves as far as the clefts of the fingers, where they are joined by the anterior interosseous arteries, branches of the deep arch. On the sides of the fingers, each artery lies beneath the corresponding uerve, and gives branches which supply the sheaths of the tendons and the joints, some of them anastomosing across the front of the bones with similar branches from the opposite side. At about the middle ot the last phalanx, the two branches for each finger converge and form an arch.