Fig. 29.—External surface BONES OF TILE HEAD. 34 Bone. (A. T.) J Fig. 29. mcnt to the rectus capitis lateralis muscle ; and superiorly a deep groove for the lateral sinus before it terminates in the jugular notch. The basilar process, or basi-occipital, projects forwards and upwards into the middle of the base of the skull. It increases in thick- ness and diminishes in breadth towards its extremity. Interiorly it gives attachment to the rectus capitis anticus major and minor muscles and the fibrous band of the pharynx. Its superior surface presents a smooth depression, the basilar groove, which supports the medulla oblongata, and close to each lateral margin a slight grooved mark, which indicates the place of the inferior petrosal sinus. THE PARIETAL BONES. The parietal bones form a considerable part of the roof of the skull. They have the shape of quadrilateral plates, convex externally, concave internally. They are a little broader above than below, and the anterior inferior angle is the most projecting. They articulate with each other in the middle line, with the frontal bone anteriorly, the occipital posteriorly, and the temporal and sphenoid below. On the outer surface, near its middle, a more marked convexity exists forming the parietal eminence. Below this is a curved line, OF THE RIGHT PARIETAL 1, posterior superior angle; 2, anterior superior angle ; 3, posterior inferior angle; 4, anterior inferior angle, articu- lating with the great wing of the sphenoid bone ; from 1 to 2, superior border in the sagittal suture ; from 2 to 4, anterior border in the coronal suture ; from 1 to 3, posterior border in the lambdoidal su- ture ; from 4 to 6, margin of the squamous suture ; from 3 to 6, the additamentum su- turse squamosffl ; 5, the tem- poral or semicircular line above which is the parietal eminence; S, parietal foramen. the parietal part of the temporal ridge, bounding a surface somewhat flatter than the rest, planum temporale, which forms part of the temporal fossa. Near the posterior and upper angle, is the small parietal foramen. The concave inner surface is marked by shallow depressions corre- sponding with the convolutions of the brain, and by narrower furrows branching upwards and backwards from the lower border for the middle meningeal vessels. The largest of these grooves running from the anterior inferior angle is sometimes converted into a canal for a short distance. A slight depression along the inner part of the superior border, forms with the one of the opposite side, the groove of the