VARIOUS FORMS OF THE SKULL. 79 Fig. 66. Fig. 66.—Prognathous Skull op a Native Australian (Carpenter). £ of the female is from SO to 90 cubic inches. As contrasting with this more developed condition may be mentioned the cranial capacity of the Australian, which averages from 70 to 80 cubic inches, and not unfrequently falls as low as 65 cubic inches. (See on this subject the further details under Size of the Brain.) Measurement and Classification of Differences.—The estimation of differ- ences in the form and size of skulls by a simple and accurate method is not easily accomplished, and their suitable arrangement and nomenclature is still more difficult. The method proposed by Camper, in which the degree of projection of the face as compared with the cranium is measured by the “ facial angle,” formed by the meeting of a line descending from the most projecting part of the forehead in front of the upper incisor teeth with another carried backwards from the anterior nasal spine at the level of the external auditory meatus, fails to take cognizance of the size of the cranium and many important features of difference, and is subject to various sources of fallacy from partial variations which do not affect the whole character of the skull. The “ occipital ” angle of Daubenton, which varies with the direction of the plane of the foramen magnum of the occipital bone, is mainly an indication of the attitude of the head in relation to the vertebral column. In man this plane looks down- wards and forwards, in the anthropoid apes downwards and backwards, aud in most quadrupeds nearly directly backwards, so as in them to bring the basicranial and the vertebral axis almost into the same line. The method of Blumenbach by the “ norma verticalis,” or perpendicular view from above, when combined with measurements, gives important information as to the size and form of the cranium, and the extent to which the zygomatic arches and jaws project beyond or are concealed by the cranial walls, and when combined with the lateral and front views of the head, as in the estimations of Pritchard, may give sufficiently clear views of the form of the cranium and face, their more or less oval form, and the degree of orthognathism or prognathism. The more recent classification of skulls by Retzius, in which cranial form and facial relation are both taken into account, is at once simple and comprehensive. In this system all those skulls in which the transverse diameter of the cranium bears to the longitudinal the proportion of 80 per cent, or above it are ranked as Brachycephalic, wide or short skulls, and those in which the proportion is lower than 80 per cent, are placed in the Dolichocephalic group, narrow or long skulls ; and under each of these primary divisions is established a subordinate one founded on the relation of the face to the cranium, under the names of the orthognathous and prognathous forms. Thus, the usual British skull and that of the natives of Western Europe belong to the orthognathous dolichocephalic type ; the African negro and Australian to the prognathous dolichocephalic; the Sclavonic nations are examples of the orthognathous brachycephalic, and the Mongolians of the prognathous brachycephalic type. For an approximate determination of the form and size of skulls it may be sufficient to ascertain the principal dimensions by external measurements in the horizontal, transverse and vertical diameters of the cranium, and in the vertical and transverse diameters of the face, and to measure the capacity of the cranium by means of suitable material introduced into its cavity: and it will add greatly to the value of these measurements if other dimensions are ascertained by mea- surements between different fixed points of the skull. But for the full description of all the varieties which occur, and the minuter appreciation of the relations of the several parts, a more elaborate system of measurement must be canied out. Considerable attention has in recent times