THE SMALL SCIATIC EE RYE 613 Small Sciatic Nerve. The small sciatic nerve (nervus ischiadicus minor) is chiefly a cutaneous nerve, supplying the integument of the lower part of the buttock, the back of the thigh, and upper part of the calf of the leg; it furnishes also branches to one muscle—the gluteus maximus. This nerve is formed by the union of two or more nervous cords, derived from the lower and back part of the sacral plexus. Arising below the pyriform muscle, it descends beneath the gluteus maximus, and at the lower border of that muscle comes into contact with the fascia lata. Continuing its course downwards along the back of the limb, it perforates the fascia a little below the knee. Fig. 374.—Deep Nerves in the Gluteal and Inferior Pudendal Regions (after Hirsclifeld and Le- veill6). | a, back part of the great trochanter ; b, tensor vaginas femoris muscle ; c, tendon of the obturator interaus muscle near its insertion ; d, upper paid of the vastus extemus; e, coccyx ; /, gracilis muscle ; between f and d, the adductor magnus, semitendinosus, and biceps muscles ; * placed at the meeting of the crura penis above the urethra; 1, placed upon the ilium close above the sacro-sciatic notch, marks the superior gluteal nerve, and on the divided parts of the gluteus medius muscle, the supe- rior branch of the nerve ; 1', on the surface of the gluteus minimus muscle, the inferior branch of the nerve ; 1", branch of the nerve to the tensor vaginae femoris ; 2, sacral plexus and great sciatic nerve ; 2', muscular twig from the plexus to the pyriformis ; 2", mus- cular branches to the gemellus superior and obturator interaus ; 3, lesser sciatic nerve ; 3', placed on the upper and lower parts of the divided gluteus maximus, the inferior gluteal muscular branches of the lesser sciatic nerve; 3", the cutaneous branches of the same nerve winding round the lower border of the gluteus maximus; 4, the continuation of the lesser sciatic nerve as posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh ; 4, inferior pudendal branch of the lesser sciatic ; 5, placed on the lower part of the sacral plexus, points to the origin of the pudic nerve ; 6, its perineal division with its muscular branches ; &, anterior or superior superficial perineal branch ; Q", posterior or inferior superficial perineal ; + +, distribution of these nerves and the inferior puden- dal on the scrotum ; 7, dorsal nerve of the penis. Branches.—A. The inferior gluteal branches, given off under the gluteus maximus, supply the lower part of that muscle.—A distinct gluteal branch com- monly proceeds from the sacral plexus to the upper part of the muscle. B. The cutaneous branches of the nerve principally emerge from beneath the lower border of the gluteus maximus, arranged in an external and an internal set. Others appear lower down. «. The internal are mostly distributed to the skin of the inner side of the thigh at the upper part. One branch, however, which is much larger than the rest, is distinguished as the inferior pudendal. Fig. 374.