THE PXEUMOGASTIilC NERVE. 5G1 inwards to the larynx beneath the internal carotid artery, and divides beneath that vessel into two branches, distinguished as external and in- ternal laryngeal, both of which ramify in the structures of the larynx. The external laryngeal branch, the smaller of the two divisions, gives backwards, at the side of the pharynx, filaments to the pharyngeal plexus and the lower constrictor muscle ; and it is finally prolonged be- neath the muscles on the side of the larynx to the crico-thyroid muscle in which it ends. In the neck this branch joins the upper cardiac nerve of the sympathetic. The internal laryngeal branch is continued to the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, where it perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane with the laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery, and distributes filaments to the mucous membrane : some of these are di- rected upwards in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane to the base of the tongue, the epiglottis, and the epiglottidean glands ; wrhile others are reflected downwards in the lining membrane of the larynx, extending to the corda vocalis, on the inner side of the laryngeal pouch. A slender communicating branch to the recurrent laryngeal nerve descends beneath the lateral part of the thyroid cartilage. A branch euters the arytenoid muscle, some filaments of which seem to end in the muscle, while others proceed through it to the mucous membrane. Recurrent laryngeal branch.—The recurrent or inferior laryngeal branch of the vagus nerve, as the name expresses, has a reflex course to the larynx. The nerve on the right side arises at the top of the thorax, winds round the subclavian artery, and passes beneath the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries in its course towards the trachea. On the left side the recurrent nerve is bent round, below and behind the arch of the aorta, immediately beyond the point where the obliterated ductus arteriosus is connected with the arch, and is thence continued upwards to the trachea. Each nerve in its course to the larynx is placed between the trachea and oesophagus, supplying branches to both tubes ; and each, while making its turn round the artery, gives nerves to the deep cardiac plexus. At the lower part of the cricoid cartilage the recurrent nerve distributes branches to supply all the special muscles of the larynx, except the crico- thyroid muscle, which is supplied from the upper laryngeal nerve. It likewise gives a few offsets to the mucous membrane, and a single com- municating filament which joins the long branch of the upper laryngeal nerve beneath the side of the thyroid cartilage. Cardiac branches.—Branches to the heart are given off by the pneumo-gastric nerve both in the neck and in the thorax. The cervical cardiac branches arise at both the upper and the lower part of the neck. The upper branches are small, and join the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic. The loiver, a single branch, arises as the pneumo-gastric nerve is about to enter the chest. On the right side this branch lies by the side of the innominate artery, and joins one of the cardiac nerves destined for the deep cardiac plexus ; it gives some filaments to the coats of the aorta. The branch of the left side crosses the arch of the aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus. The thoracic cardiac branches of the right side leave the trunk of the pneumo-gastric as this nerve lies by the side of the trachea, and some VOL. I.