THE AORTA. 354 separation between the two ventricles, where it divides into two branches. The smaller of these continues transversely in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle, approaching the termination of the transverse branch of the left coronary artery ; while the other branch runs longi- tudinally downwards along the posterior wall of the septum between the ventricles, giving branches to each ventricle and to the septum between them. In its course the right coronary artery gives, besides the offsets already noticed, small branches to the right auricle and ventricle, and also to the first part of the pulmonary artery. Along the right border of the ventricle a rather large branch usually descends, towards the apex of the heart, and gives offsets, in its progress, to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the ventricle. 246 * 246.—View of tiie Heart axd ' Coronarv Arteries from before (R...J Quain). ^ The pulmonary artery has been cut short close to its origin in order to show the first part of the aorta. 1, anterior part of the right ventricle ; 2, left ventricle ; 3, root of the pulmonary artery; 4, ascending pai of the arch of the aorta ; 4', the posterii or descending part of the arch; betw these is seen the transverse or middle part; from which thebrachio-cephalicarteries take their origin ; 4", the descending aorta;; 5, the appendix and anterior part of the right auricle ; 6, those of the left auricle ;•; 7, the right, and 7', the left innominate or. brachio-cephalic veins joining to form the vena cava superior; 8, the inferior vena cava below the diaphragm ; 9, one of the j large hepatic veins ; +, placed in the right t auriculo-ventrieular groove, points to the : right or posterior coronary artery ; placed in the anterior interventricular* groove, points to the left or anterior coro- nary artery. The left coronary artery is rather smaller than the preceding, and arises from the left anterior sinus ■ of Valsalva. It passes behind and then to the left side of the pul- monary artery, appearing between that vessel and the left auricular appendage. At first it descends obliquely towards the anterior inter- ventricular sulcus, where it divides into two branches. Of these, one pursues a transverse direction, turning outwards and to the left side in the groove between the left ventricle and auricle, and approaching at the posterior aspect of the heart the transverse branch of the right coronary artery ; the other branch, much the larger, descends on the anterior surface of the heart along the line of the interventricular groove, to the right of the apex. The left coronary artery supplies some small branches at its com mencement to the pulmonary artery, to the coats of the aorta, ana