237 QUADRICEPS EXTENSOR CRURIS MUSCLE. The sartorius is covered only by the fascia lata and the integument. It passes over the iliacus and rectus femoris mus- cles, the anterior crural nerve and fe- moral vessels, the pectineus, the adductor longus, adductor magnus, vastus intemus and seinitendinosus muscles. The inner border of this muscle and the most pro- jecting part of the adductor longus form the sides, and Poupart’s ligament forms the base, of a triangular space in the upper thud of the thigh, through the middle of which the femoral artery passes. This usually receives the name of Scarpa's triangle. Varieties—The sartorius has frequently been foimd divided into two parts similarly attached ; or the lower muscle is inserted into the femur or into the tendon of the normal one. The tendon of insertion has been found to end in the fascia lata or in the capsule of the knee-joint, absence of the muscle has also been noted. Total Relations.—In this long course the muscle is directed over the anterior part of the thigh, obliquely inwards in the upper third, and vertically at the inner i aspect of the limb as far as the knee ; : below this it turns obliquely forwards to p;g_ jgg. [ its place of attachment. The tendon of ?: insertion, broad and expanded, covers the t tendons of the gracilis and seinitendi- nosus (a synovial bursa being interposed), j and gives off one expansion which r strengthens the capsule of the knee- i joint by becoming incorporated with it, ! and another which blends with the fascia i of the leg. , Fig. 1SS.—Superficial Muscles of the Front of the Thigh. (A. T.) | a, anterior part of the crest of the ilium ; b, symphysis pubis; c, patella ; d, the an- terior tuberosity of the tibia ; 1, the inser- j tion of the external oblique muscle into the iliac crest ; 2, its aponeurosis at the linea semilunaris ; 3, the external abdominal ring ; 4, the gluteus medius; 5, tensor vaginae femoris at the place of its insertion into a portion of the fascia lata, which has been removed between 5 and 5', which latter part is seen descending to be attached to the tibia and fibula ; 6, the sartorius ; 6', the insertion of the sartorius ; 7, psoas and iliacus conjoined ; 8, pectineus; 9, adductor longus ; 10, gracilis; 11, part of the adductor magnus ; 12, vastus externus ; 13, rectus femoris ; 14, vastus intemus ; 14', its continuation on the outer side below ; 15, the biceps flexor cruris. . The quadriceps extensor cruris, the extensor muscle of the knee, - is divisible into four parts, one of which, the rectus femoris, descends 1 from the hip-bone and remains distinct, while the other three,