THE CRANIAL NERVES. set the nerves of the right and left sides, while they lie in contact with the oesophagus. Gastric branches.—The branches distributed to the stomach (gastric nerves) are the terminal branches of both pneumogastric nerves. The nerve of the left side, on arriving in front of the oesophagus, oppo- site the cardiac orifice of the stomach, divides into many branches: the largest of these extend over the fore part of the stomach ; others lie along its small curvature, and unite with branches of the right nerve and the sympathetic ; and some filaments are continued between the layers of the small omentum to the hepatic plexus. The right pneumo- . gastric nerve descends on the back of the gullet to the stomach, and distributes branches to the posterior surface of the organ : a part of this nerve is continued from the stomach to the left side of the coeliac. plexus, and to the splenic plexus of the sympathetic. Varieties. —1The pneumogastric nerve of the right side has been found in front of the sheath of the great cervical vessels (Quain). In several instances the origin of the descendens noni has been transferred to the trunk of the pneumo- gastric. Turner, who has recorded such cases, mentions also one in which the entire trunk of the hypoglossal nerve was intimately connected with the pneumo- gastric as low as the posterior belly of the digastric muscle. The superior laryngeal nerve has frequently been seen to give branches to the thyro-hyoid and stemo-hyoid muscles (Meckel, Reid, Cloquet, Krause). The recurrent laryngeal in rare cases supplies the crico-thyroid muscle (Reid). This nerve also, in those cases in which the right subclavian artery arises from the left side of the aortic arch, passes directly inwards to the larynx in the neck, and is not hooked downwards towards the thorax by the subclavian. This abnormality is explained developmentally by the origin of the subclavian from the right aortic root posteriorly, and by the closure of the fourth branchial arch, as well as of the. fifth, upon the right side. Summary.—The pneumogastric nerves supply branches to the upper part of the alimentary canal, viz., the pharynx, oesophagus, and stomach with the liver and spleen ; and to the respiratory passages, namely, the larynx, trachea, and its divisions in the lungs. These nerves give branches likewise to the heart and great vessels by means of their com- munication with the cardiac plexus. Each pneumogastric nerve i& connected with the following cranial nerves—the spinal accessory, glosso-pharyngeal, facial, and hypoglossal: also, with some spinal nerves ; and with the sympathetic in the neck, thorax, and abdomen. III. SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. The spinal nerve accessory to the vagus, or, as it is shortly named,, the spinal accessory nerve, consists of two parts : one (accessory) joins- the trunk of the pneumogastric ; the other (spinal) ends in branches to the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles. Surface attachment.—The accessory nerve arises by a series of roots, the upper of which are attached to the side of the medulla below those of the pneumogastric, while the remainder arise from the lateral column of the cervical portion of the cord as low down as the sixth or seventh pair of nerves. The lowest spinal roots are attached to the middle of the lateral column; the highest spinal roots arise close to the posterior nerve roots. Deep origin.—The upper roots pass inwards to a nucleus which lies, on each side, at the back of and close to the central canal. It contains large nerve-cells, and is continuous, above, with the column of