339 DIRECT INGUINAL HERXIiE. following the whole course of the inguinal canal, in the manner of the hernia above described, the viscus in this case is protruded from the A portion of the wall of tlie abdo- men and pelvis of the left side, seen from behind. 1, symphysis of the pubis; 2, irregular surface of the hip-bone separated from the sacrum ; 3, ischial spine ; 4, ischial tuberosity ; 5, obturator intemus; 6, rectus, covered with an elongation from 7, fascia transversalis; 8, fascia iliaca covering the iliacus muscle ; 9, psoas magnus cut; 10, iliac artery; 11, iliac vein; 12, epigastric artery and its two accompanying veins; 13, vessels of the spermatic cord, entering the abdominal wall at the internal ring the vas deferens joining them from below ; 14, two obturator veins ; 15, the obliterated umbilical artery. abdomen to the groin directly through the lower end of the canal, at the external abdomi- nal ring. At the part of the abdominal wall through which the direct inguinal hernia finds its way, there is recognised on its posterior aspect a triangular interval, Fig. 236.—Internal View of tiie Vessels related to the Groin. Fig. 236. the sides of which arc formed by the epigastric artery, and die margin of the rectus mus- cle, and the base by Poupart’s ligament. It is commonly named the triangle of Hessel- bach. Through this space the ceima is protruded, carrying ivnnw ^ a.sac from the fossa of the peritoneum internal to the obliterate sxterna^abdoraTnal i“g. * “ “ smai f°rCed onw"ds direotb into tb S'"5: !lclnia> taking them in the order which the dy applied to the protruded viscus, are the following Fig. 237.—A Direct Inouinal Her- nia on the Left Side, covered by the Conjoined Tendon of the Internal Oblique and Trans- versalis Muscles. 1, aponeurosis of the external ob- lique ; 2, internal oblique turned up ; 3, transversalis muscle ; 4, fascia transversalis ; 5, spermatic cord; 6, the hernia. A small part of the epi- gastric artery is seen through an opening made in the transversalis . fascia.