Fig. 283.—View of the distribution of the Arteries to the Viscera of the Female Pelvis, as seen on the removal of the left Os Innominatuh, &c. (from R. Quain). £ a, the left auricular surface of the sacrum ; b, the spine of the ischium with the short sacro-sciatic ligament ; c, the os pubis divided a little to the left of the symphysis ; d, placed upon the sigmoid part of the colon, and d! on the lower part of the urinary bladder, point to the ureter ; e, on the upper part of the body of the uterus, points by a line to the left ovary ; /, on the upper part of the bladder, points to the left Fallopian tube ;/', round ligament of the uterus ; 1, left external iliac artery cut short ; 2, left internal iliac artery ; 3, gluteal artery cut short ; 4, 4, left pudic artery from which a part has been removed ; 4', the same artery after it has re-entered the pelvis proceeding towards the muscles of the perinoeum, clitoris, &c. ; 5, placed on the sacral nerves, points to the sciatic artery ; G, 6', inferior vesical and vaginal arteries ; 6", branches from these to the rectum ; 7, uterine artery much coiled ; 8, the superior vesical, and 8', the remains of the hypogastric artery ; 9, 9, the left ovarian artery, descending from the aorta, and emerging from below the peritoneum ; 10, the superior hcemorrhoidal artery spreading over the left side of the rectum. The obturator artery, while it usually arises from the anterior divi- sion of the internal iliac artery, is sometimes derived from its posterior division. The artery is directed forwards along the inside of the pelvis to reach the groove at the upper part ot the thyroid foramen. By this aperture it passes out of the pelvis, and immediately divides iuto its 412 BRANCHES OF INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. This artery supplies small branches to the bladder and the ureter ; and, near its tennination, communicates with an offset directed inwards from the ovarian artery. Vaginal artery.—The vagina derives its arteries principally from a branch which corresponds with the inferior vesical in the male. The vaginal artery descends and ramifies upon the vagina, at the same time sending some offsets to the lower part of the bladder over the neck, aud others to the contiguous part of the rectum. Fig. 283.