MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 242 Fig. 190. inserted into the lower part of the linea quadrati, and into the lino prolonged from the linea aspera to the great trochanter ; others pass with increasing degrees of obliquity downwards and outwards, to be inserted into the whole length of the linea aspera, and into the line prolonged from it to the inner condyle for about an inch; finally, the posterior fibres which arise from the ischial tuberosity, descend almost vertically, form- ing the inner border of the mus- cle, and terminate in a narrow tendon, which is inserted into the tuberosity of the inner con- cede of the femur. Fig. 190.—Muscles of the Inner Side of the Thigh and Interior of the Pelvis. (A. T.) 1, iliacus ; 2, psoas magnus ; 3, ob- turator internus, with its fibres con- verging towards the lesser sciatic fora- men ; 4, pvriformis, with three heads of origin, and its fibres converging to- wards the great sciatic foramen ; 5, lumbar aponeurosis covering the erector spime muscle ; 6, gluteus maximus; 7, sartorius, 7', its tendon inserted below the tuberosity of the tibia; S, adductor longus ; 9, gracilis, 9', its in- sertion passing below that of the sar- torius ; 10, part of the adductor mag- uus ; 11, semimembranosus ; 12, semi- ten dinosus, 12', its insertion, and be- tween 9' and 12', the tendon of the semimembranosus passing to its inser- tion in the inner tuberosity of the tibia. Along the femoral attachment the insertion is interrupted by three or more tendinous arches through which pass the per- forating arteries, and below the level of the inferior bifurcation of the linea aspera, between the tendinous and fleshy portions of the insertion of the muscle, an interval is left for the trans- mission of the femoral vessels backwards into the popliteal space. Extending upwards from the opening for the femoral ves- sels, is an aponeurotic membrane which consists of transverse fibres passing from the surface of the vastus internus to the adductor maguns and adductor longus muscles. It becomes thinner as it ascends, and encloses a three-sided passage called Hunter's canal, which contains