VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 20 and is separated up to the third year by a narrow cartilaginous interval—the neurocentral suture. It would appear further, that while ossification in the centres of the arches commences first in the upper or cervical vertebrae, the osseous centres of the bodies appear earliest in the lower dorsal vertebrae. At the time of birth most of the vertebrae consist of three osseous pieces, cor- responding to the three original ossific centres. In the first year of infancy the osseous laminae of opposite sides become united in a number of the vertebrae, but not in all. The spinous processes, remaining cartilaginous for a time, are gradually completed by the growth of the cartilage and the extension of the bone into Fig. 17. A B * Fig. 17.—Ossification of the Ver- tebra:. (R. Qcain.) A, foetal vertebra, showing the three primary centres of ossification ; 1, 2, for the pedicles, laminae, and processes ; 3, for the body. B, dorsal vertebra from a child of two years ; 1 & 2 are seen to have en- croached upon the body at * the neuro- central suture and into the articular and transverse processes, and to have united behind in the spinous process, leaving the ends cartilaginous. C, dorsal vertebra at about sixteen or seventeen years, showing epiphyses on the transverse processes, 4 & 5, and spinous process, 6, and the upper epi- physial plate of the body, 7. D & E, parts of a lumbar vertebra of about the same age, showing, in addi- tion to the foregoing, 8, the lower epi- physial plate of the body ; 9 & 10, the epiphyses of the mammillary tubercles. them, and at the same time, by the ossific extension of the transverse processes and other parts, the vertebrae gradually attain to nearly their full size and shape about the age of puberty. At different periods subsequent to this, five sets of epiphyses, or supplementary centres of ossification, are added. Three of these are small portions of bone, placed on the tips of the spinous and transverse processes : the Fig. 13. B Fig. 18.—Ossification of the Atlas. (R. Qcain.) A, before birth ; 1 & 2, lateral centres of ossification ; the anterior arch is carti- laginous. B, in the first year ; 1 & 2, as before ; 3, ossific centre in the anterior arch. Fig. 19.—Ossification of the Axis AS SEEN IN FRONT. (R. QuAIN.) .A B A, from a foetus of seven months ; 3, the centre for the body; 4 & 5, two centres for the base of the odontoid process. B, shortly after birth ; 1 & 2 the lateral centres ; 3, centre for the body ; 6, the two centres for the odontoid process now united. other two are thin circular plates, one on the upper, the other on the lower surface of the body, chiefly at its circumference. In the lumbar vertebra two other epiphyses surmount the mammillary processes. The transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra is sometimes observed to be developed altogether from a separate centre. Most of the anterior divisions of the cervical transverse pro- cesses are ossified by the extension into them of osseous substance from the neighbouring posterior part of the process and from the arch ; but that of the