191 LATISSIMUS DORSI. Between the adjacent borders of the latissimns dorsi, trapezius, and rhom- boideus major, there is left, when the scapula is drawn forward, a triangular area in which a portion of one or two ribs and of an intercostal p. r ^ ^ space becomes superficial; this is taken advantage of for the purpose of auscultation. Fig. 1G5.—Deeper View op the Muscles op the Trunk, Shoulder and Hip. (After Bour- gery.) (A. T.) \ The trapezius, latissimus dorsi, deltoid, gluteus maximus and ex- ternal oblique muscles have been removed. The bones are lettered as in the preceding figure. 1, splenitis capitis and splenitis colli; 1', lower end of splenitis colli ; 2, complexus near its inser- tion ; 3, levator anguli scapnhe ; 4, rhomboideus minor ; above it +, a part of the serratus posticus supe- rior ; 5, rhomboideus major; 6, part of the longissimus dorsi ; 6', part of the tendons of insertion of the sacro-lumbidis ; 7, part of the spi- nalis dorsi ; 8, upper, and 8', lower part of the serratus posticus infe- rior ; 9, obliquus abdominis inter- nus ; 10, stipraspinatus ; 11, infra- spinatus ; 12, placed upon the long head of the triceps, points to the teres minor ; 13, teres major ; 14, serratus magnus ; 15, gluteus medius; 16, pyriformis; 17, portion of the obturator internus; + and + , superior and inferior gemelli ; 17', the intra-pelvic portion of obturator internus; 18, the tendon of the obtu- rator externus passing to its inser- tion ; 19, quadratus femoris ; 20, upper part of the adductor magnus. Varieties. — The number of dorsal vertebrae to which the latissimus dorsi is attached varies from four to seven or eight, and the number of the costal attachments is also incon- stant, being frequently dimin- ished and more rarely increased. Muscular bands (axillary arches) are sometimes seen to stretch from [the border of this muscle across the axilla to its anterior part, where they terminate various- ly , in the tendon of the greater pectoral, in the coraco-bracliialis muscle, the biceps, or in the iascia. There is also occasion- Mly a slip of attachment to the scapular part of the triceps.