201 THE TERES MINOS MUSCLE. tus, and by fleshy fibres into down. the bone for a short distance lower Relations.—The supraspinatus muscle is covered by the trapezius and the acro- mion process The suprascapular nerve and artery pass beneath it. The infraspinatus muscle is bound down by the aponeurosis which superiorly and externally divides so as to enclose the deltoid muscle. It is covered by the deltoid at its upper and outer part, and by the trapezius at its upper and inner part, by the latissimus dorsi at its lower angle, and in the intermediate portion it remains superficial. Varieties. The infraspinatus muscle is sometimes very closely united with the teres minor. The supraspinatus is very constant in its form and attachments. The teres minor muscle is placed along the outer border of the in- fraspinatus, and is intimately connected with that muscle. It arises by a scries of fibres from a naiTow obliquely grooved F'o- 170. surface on the dorsum of the scapula close to the axillary border, and from aponeurotic septa between it and the infraspinatus and teres major muscles, and is inserted bv tendon into the greater tuberosity of the humerus, immedi- ately below the infraspina- Fig. 170. — Muscles of the Right Shoulder and Arm, seen from behind. (A. T.) \ The .acromion process and a part of the spine of the scapula, with the deltoid muscle, have been re- moved. a, coracoid process ; b, triangular surface at the com- mencement of the spine; c, is close to the cut portion of the spine ; d, greater tuberosity; e, olecranon of the ulna; /, is close to the external condylar eminence and head of the radius ; 1, supra- spinatus muscle; 2, infraspinatus; 3, teres minor; below the figure is the triangular space ; 4, teres major; 5, part of latissimus dorsi; +, slip from the inferior angle of the scapula ; +, on the edge of the humerus, points to the ten- don of the latissimus dorsi and the quadrangular space ; 6, scapu- lar head of the triceps, passing above between the teres major and minor; 6', outer head ; 6", part of the muscle rising below the spiral groove, continuous with the inner head; 6"', part of the inner head; 7, anconeus. Tf>U+latWn?l-L. musc^e *s crossed behind by the deltoid, and in front is in ion with the long head of the triceps, and the capsule of the shoulder-joint.