j — TIIE ULNAR ARTERY. 407 ULNAR ARTERY. The ulnar artery, the larger of the two vessels into which the brachial I divides, extends along the inner side of the fore-arm into the palm of | the hand, where, joining a branch of the radial, opposite the muscles of the thumb, it forms the superficial palmar arch. In this course it 1 inclines at first downwards and inwards, describing a slight curve, the ; convexity of which is directed inwards, and passes under cover of the | superficial muscles arising from the inner condyle .of the humerus, viz., j the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor I sublimis, until it reaches the flexor carpi ulnaris near the. junction of j the upper with the middle third of the fore-arm ; at this point the j artery comes into contact with the ulnar nerve, which was previously j separated from it by a considerable interval, and changing its direction, ■j descends vertically with the nerve towards the inner border of the :i palm of the hand. Descending along the radial border of the tendon 1 of the flexor ulnaris muscle, the ulnar artery reaches the outer or radial : side of the pisiform bone, where, still accompanied by the nerve, it \ passes over the cutaneous surface of the anterior annular ligament of ; the wrist into the palm of the hand. Its disposition in the hand will > be separately described. In the first half of its course through the fore-arm, the artery is deep seated, being covered by the muscles arising from the inner condyle of the humerus which have been already enumerated. About the middle of the fore-arm it is overlapped by the fleshy part of the flexor carpi ulnaris ; but below that, it becomes more superficial, being over- laid by the tendon of the muscle, and covered by the skin, the fascia of the fore-arm, and a thin layer of membrane by which the vessel is bound down to the muscle beneath. At first the ulnar artery lies on •the insertion of the brachialis anticus into the coronoid process of the ulna ; then on the flexor profundus in the rest of the fore-arm, and lastly, on the annular ligament of the carpus. Below the point at which it emerges from under the flexor carpi ulnaris (or a little below the middle of the fore-arm), the tendon of that muscle is on its inner :! Dr ulnar side. Relation to Nerves.—The median nerve lies immediately on the inner side of the ulnar artery at its origin, but being directed down the middle Df the fore-arm it soon passes over the vessel, separated from it at the joint of crossing by the deep head of the pronator teres muscle. As :he ulnar nerve descends behind the inner condyle of the humerus, it is .’ernoved from the ulnar artery by a considerable interval at the upper 1 Part of the fore-ami ; but as the vessel inclines inwards, it approaches • nerve, and is accompanied by it in the lower half of its course—the lerve lying close to its inner side. A small branch of the ulnar nerve * lescends upon the lower part of the vessel. Relation to Veins.—Two veins (venae comites) accompany the ulnar fcrtery, and are frequently united by branches crossing it. Branches.—The ulnar artery gives oif in the fore-arm the anterior Jmd posterior recurrent, the interosseous, and several muscular I tranches. At the wrist it gives off the anterior and posterior carpal tranches. The anterior ulnar recurrent artery, a small branch, arches inwards tnd upwards from the upper part of the ulnar artery, in front of the nner p.orirlvlp mnninr. j.u~ 1 i ..._ i. i 1... nner condyle, runniug on the brachialis anticus muscle, and covered bv