303 SEMISPINALIS. MULTIFIDUS SPINiE. cissimus ; 7, ilio-costalis drawn slightly inwards to show the slips of insertion into the lumbar fascia and the various ribs ; inside the costal insertions are seen the origrns of the accessorius - 7' the ascendens cervicis continued upwards irom the accessorius; 8, spinalis dorsi' On the rinht side, 6, marks, in the lumbar region, the insertions of the longis- sirnus dorsi into the upper four transverse processes (the insertion into the accessory pro- cesses not being shown) ;.in the dorsal region the narrower tendons of insertion into the lower part of the dorsal transverse processes (the six lower only are represented) ; 6 the series of insertions into nine ribs ; 7, the ilio-costalis drawn outwards; /' placed between +llp Wst costai insertion of the ilio-costalis and the lowest origin of the accessorius ; 7" extension of the ascendens cervicis from the fifth rib towards the neck ; 9, 9, semi- sn’inalis colli - 10, 10, semi-spinalis dorsi; 11, 11, lower dorsal and lumbar parts of the multifidus spinas, which appears again above the semi-spinalis colli, over the upper 9-10 levatores costarum, long and short; 13, in the upper part of the figure, points by four lines to the rectus capitis posticus minor, rectus major, obliquus superior, and obliquus inferior muscles. Relations.—Tire complexus muscle is covered by the splenius, except at its lowest origins from the dorsal vertebrae and at the internal portion of its upper extremity ; the trachelo-mastoid and transversalis cervicis rest upon its series of origins, and the semispinalis colli, the posterior recti, and the obliqui capitis, together with the deep cervical artery, are concealed by it. The semispinalis muscle consists of fibres extending from trans- verse processes to spines, each bundle crossing over about five vertebrae. It is described in two parts. a. The semispinalis colli is the part under cover of the complexus. It arises from the internal tubercles of the upper four or five dorsal transverse processes, and is inserted into the spines of the cervical ■ .vertebras from the second to the fifth inclusive, being thickest at its • insertion into the second vertebra. &. The semispinalis dorsi, not covered by the complexus, consists of , 'narrow muscular buudles interposed between tendons of considerable i length, and forms an elongated thin stratum, especially towards its lower border. It arises from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae from the tenth to the fifth inclusive, and is inserted into the ! spines of the last two cervical and first four dorsal vertebrae. The multifidus spinse muscle reaches from the sacrum to the axis vertebra, passing up under cover of the semispinalis, and is much more | largely developed towards the lower than at the upper end of the column. In the sacral region the fibres arise from the deep surface of the tendinous origin of the erector spinas, from the groove on the back ■ of the sacrum as low as the fourth foramen, from the inner part of the posterior extremity of the iliac crest, and from the ligaments between that bone and the sacrum ; in the lumbar region they take origin from the mammillary processes ; in the dorsal region from the transverse processes ; and in the neck from the articular processes of the four lower cervical vertebrae. From these several points the muscular bundles ascend obliquely, to be inserted into the laminae of the vertebrae, and into the spines from their bases nearly to their extremities. The 4 fibres from each point of origin are fixed to several vertebrae, some being inserted into the side of the spinous process next above, and others ascending more and more vertically as high as the fourth from the place of origin ; the longer fibres from one origin overlapping those from the origin next above. The rotatores spinae are eleven pairs of small muscles, which may be regarded as the deepest fibres of the multifidus spinae in the dorsaL