119 OSSIFICATION OF TIIE FEMUR. ilium the tuberosity of the ischium, the anterior inferior spine of the ilium, and the symphysis pubis. These begin to ossify soon after puberty, and unite with the main bone from the 23rd to the 25th year. The pelvis of the foetus and young child is of very small capacity piopoi- tionally to the size of the body, and those viscera which are afterwards contained for the most part in the true pelvis occupy a part of the abdominal cavity. The inclination ofP the pelvis is considerably greater in early life than m the adult The femur is developed from one principal ossific centre foi the .haft which appears in the 7th week, and from four epiphyses, the centres for which appear in the following order A single nucleus for the lower extremity appears several weeks before birth, one for the head appears m the 1st year, one tor the Fig. 106. 15 Fig. 106.—Ossification of the Femur (R. Quain.) A, from a foetus under eight months ; the body is osseous, both ends are carti- laginous. B, from a child at birth, showing a nucleus in the lower epiphysis. C, from a child of about a year old, showing a nucleus in the articular head. D, at the fifth or sixth year. Ossification lias exteudcd from the shaft into the neck, and a nucleus has appeared in the great trochanter. E, near the age of puberty, showing more complete ossification and a nucleus in the lesser trochanter. 1, shaft; 2, lower extremity ; 3, head ; 4, great trochanter ; 5, small trochanter. C, D, & E are represented considerably, A and B very little, under the natural size. great trochanter in the 4th year, and one for the small trochanter in the 13th or 14th year. These epiphyses become united to the shaft in an order the reverse of that of then appearance. The small trochanter is united about the 17th year, the great trochanter about the 18th year, the head from the 18th to the 19th year, and the lower extremity soon after the 20th year. The neck of the femur is formed by extension of ossification from the shaft. The patella is formed in the 3rd month by a deposit of cartilage in the tendon of the quadriceps extensor cruris muscle. In this cartilage ossification begins from a single centre dining the third year, and is completed about the age of puberty. The tibia and fibula each present, besides the principal centre of ossification for the shaft, a superior and an inferior epiphysis. In the tibia the centre for the shaft appears in the 7th week ; that for the upper extremity, including the anterior and lateral tuberosities, appears most frequently before, but sometimes after birth ; and that for the inferior extremity and internal malleolus appears