MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 204 wards when it is raised, and rotate it outwards or inwards when hanging by the side. The teres major rotates the raised humerus inwards, the teres minor out- wards : acting together, they assist in depressing the arm. The deltoid muscle superficially, and the supra- and infraspinatus muscles, the teres minor and sub- scapularis, more deeply, afford important protection to the shoulder-joint, and by their tension prevent displacement of the head of the humerus. MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THE UPPER ARM. Fasclze.—The aponeurosis of the arm is composed chiefly of transverse fibres, held together by others having an oblique or longitu- dinal direction; it is thin over the biceps muscle, stronger where it covers the triceps, and particularly dense as it approaches the outer and inner condylar eminences of the humerus. It is pierced on the inner side of the limb by the basilic vein, below the middle of the arm. It is attached to the shaft and condylar eminences of the humerus by the two processes next to be described. The external and internal intermuscular septa are two fibrous partitions which bind the aponeurosis of the arm to the humerus, and with which the neighbouring muscles of the arm are intimately con- nected. The external intermuscular septum extends upwards from the outer condylar eminence along the outer lateral ridge to the insertion of the deltoid, from which it receives tendinous fibres. It is pierced from behind forwards by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior pro- funda artery. The internal septum, much stronger, extends along the ridge from the inner condylar eminence to the insertion of the coraco- brachialis muscle. It is traversed from before backwards by the ulnar nerve, and by the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries. At the bend of the elbow the aponeurosis is closely connected with the periosteum covering the condylar eminences of the humerus and the olecranon process of the ulna ; and it is strengthened by tendinous fibres sent from the triceps and biceps muscles. Muscles.—The coraco-brachialis muscle, elongated in form, arises from the tip of the coracoid process of the scapula, between the pector- alis minor and the short head of the biceps, with which latter it is for a short distance conjoined by an intermediate tendon. The lower part of the muscle is directly inserted into the inner border of the humerus near its middle, in a linear impression of from two to three inches in length, between the origin of the triceps and the brachialis anticus. Higher up its fibres are found inserted into a tendinous band which is prolonged upwards to the head of the humerus, forming a sliug over the latissimus dorsi. Relations.—This muscle is usually pierced by the musculo-cutaneous nerve; its outer border is in contact with the biceps muscle, and its inner with the brachial artery, by which it is crossed obliquely near its insertion. It lies m front of the tendons of the subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, and teres major, and is covered by the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles. Varieties.—This muscle has been shown by various authors to be subject to considerable varieties, which seem to indicate, according to ‘Wood, that it con- sists typically of three parts ; viz., 1, a superior short one rising from the coracoid process, or near it, and running over the capsular ligament, to be inserted close below the small tuberosity of the humerus ; 2, a second corresponding mos nearly to that usually described in human anatomy, of middle size, and place between the first and third ; 3, a third which is the longest and most superficially placed, and descends to the inner condyle, or near it, and in many instances is