259 ACTIONS OF THE MUSCLES OF TELE LEG AND FOOT. ( ho dorsal muscles are visible both from above and below. Two muscles . are found in each space, except the innermost, in which there is only one Fig. 200. B Fig. 200, A.—The Dorsal Interosseous Muscles from above, j 1, 2, 3, 4, tlie several dorsal inter- n osseous muscles : the final insertion o the extensor tendons into the phalanges >j of the toes is also shown in this figuie. { B.—The Plantar Interosseous Mus- cles FROM BELOW. 1 2, 3, the three plantar interossei ; J this figure also shows the long and shoit .3 plantar ligaments, and the insertion ot j the tendon of the peroneus longus mus- 4 cle into the first metatarsal bone. The dorsal interossei lie one in each interspace. Each muscle arises by two heads from the ad- jacent sides of two metatarsal bones ; their muscular fibres are attached pennately on the two sides of a central tendon which is inserted partly into the dorsal surface of the first phalanx and partly into the extensor apo- neurosis of the toe to which each belongs. The first two are inserted one on each side of the second toe ; the third and fourth arc severally inserted on the outer sides of the third and fourth toes. At the proximal ends of each muscle there is an interval between the two origins giving passage to perforating arteries as in the hand. The plantar interossei arise from the inner and under surfaces of the third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones, and are severally inserted in a a manner similar to the dorsal interossei, partly into the inner sides of the first phalanges of the third, fourth, and fifth toes, and partly into the extensor tendons of these toes. Nerves.—The flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor, the flexor brevis pollicis, j and the two inner lumbricales, are supplied by the internal plantar nerve ; all I the other plantar muscles, including the flexor accessorius and the interossei, are t supplied by the external plantar nerve, Actions of the Muscles of the Leg- and Foot.—There is only one muscle of the 5 leg, viz., th&popllteiui, which acts on the knee-joint alone. Its principal action is > that of a rotator inwards of the lower leg ; and it is interesting to observe that, ■ while inward rotation of the leg at the knee-joint occurs only in flexion, it is s in that position only that the tendon of the popliteus lies in its groove on the r. femur. i It may here be observed that owing to the difference in the direction of the I bend at the ankle, as compared with that at the wrist-joint, some confusion is J arise in the description of the action of the muscles of the leg upon the loot. As it is obvious from morphological considerations, that the anterior sur- ‘ ace of the leg and the dorsal surface of the foot belong to the general extensor .-in ace of the limb, corresponding with the back of the forearm and the dorsum ° 10 lanc^ > and that the back of the leg and the sole of the foot belong in the same way to the general flexor surface corresponding with the front of the fore- s 2