414 ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. Fig. 270. Fig. 270.—Deep Anterior. View op the Ar- teries op the Arm, Forearm, and Hand (from Tiedemann). \ The biceps bracliii, the pronator teres and mus- cles rising from the inner condyle, the supinator longus, the lower part of the flexor longus pol- licis and flexor profundus digitorum, the anterior annular ligament of the carpus and the muscles of the ball of the thumb, have been removed; n, pronator quadratus muscle; 1, lower part of the axillary artery continued into the brachial ; 2, superior profunda branch; 3, inferior pro- funda ; 4, anastomotic ; 5, upper part of the radial artery and radial recurrent ; 5', lower part of the radial artery, giving off the superficialis volse branch ; 5", the radial artery emerging from between the heads of the abductor indicis mus- cle ; 6, 6, the upper part of the ulnar artery with the anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent branches; 6', the ulnar artery approaching the wrist and descending into the superficial palmar arch which has been cut short; 6", the deep branch of the ulnar artery uniting with the deep palmar arch; 7 (marked only on one), three interosseous branches from the deep palmar arch joining the palmar digital arteries 8, 8, 8, which have been cut away from their origin from the superficial arch to near their division into the collateral digital arteries; the ulnar collateral of the little finger is represented as rising in this instance from the deep ulnar artery ; 9, placed between the prineeps pollicis and radialis indicis branches of the radial artery ; 10, lower part of the anterior interosseous artery passing behind the pronator quadratus muscle ; 11, anas- tomosis of the anterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries with recurrent branches from the deep palmar arch. extensors of the metacarpal hone and first phalanx of the thumb, and upon the external lateral ligament of the wrist-joint, to reach the back of the carpus. It then runs downwards for a short distance, is crossed by the tendon of the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, and reaching the upper end of the space between the first and second metacarpal hones, turns forwards into the palm of the hand, by passing between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. As it turns round below the end of the radius the artery is deep-seated, but afterwards comes nearer to the surface. It is accompanied by two veins and by some filaments of the external cutaneous nerve, and is crossed by subcutaneous veins and by filaments of the radial nerve.