547 THE SUBMAXILLARY GANGLION. Submaxillary Ganglion. The submaxillary or lingual ganglion is placed above the deep portion of the submaxillary gland, and is connected by filaments with the lingual nerve. It is about the size of the ophthalmic ganglion, and triangular or fusiform in shape. By the upper part or base it receives branches from nerves which may be regarded as its roots, whilst from the lower part proceed the filaments which are distributed from the ganglion. Connection with nerves—roots.—This ganglion receives filaments from the lingual nerve, and likewise, at its back part, a root which appa- rently comes from the lingual nerve, but is in reality derived from the chorda tympani, which is prolonged downwards in the sheath of the lingual nerve. It receives also small twigs from the sympathetic fila- ments on the facial artery. Branches.—Some nerves, five or six in number, radiate to the substance of the submaxillary gland. Others from the fore part of the ganglion, longer and larger than the preceding, end in the mucous membrane of the mouth, and in Wharton’s duct. According to Meckel (“ De quinto pare,'' &c.), a branch occasionally descends in front of the hyo-giossus muscle, and after joining with one from the hypoglossal nerve, ends in the genio-hyo-glossns muscle. It may be noticed that while the branches from the otic ganglion pass exclu- sively to muscles, the submaxillary ganglion gives no muscular offsets. Summary.—Cutaneous filaments of the inferior maxillary nerve ramify on the side of the head, and the external ear, in the auditory passage, the lower lip, and the lower part of the face ; sensory branches are supplied by it to the greater part of the tongue ; and branches are furnished to the mucous membrane of the mouth, the lower teeth and gums, the salivary glands, and the articulation of the lower jaw. This nerve supplies the muscles of mastication, viz., the masseter, temporal, and two pterygoid ; also the buccinator, the mylo-hyoid, and the anterior belly of the digastric ; and from the otic ganglion proceed the branches to the circumflexus palati and tensor tympani muscles. SIXTH PAIR OF NERVES. Surface Attachment.—The sixth cranial nerve (abducens) motor oculi externus, takes its apparent origin from between the pyramidal body and the pons Varolii by means of a larger and a smaller bundle. It is connected with the pyramid, and to a small extent with the pons also. Deep origin.—The fibres pass backwards and a little upwards through the fibres of the pons, parallel with the raphe, to reach a column of large nerve cells situated beneath the emineutia teres. The same nucleus gives origin to a large number of the fibres of the facial nerve, and is termed the common nucleus of the facial and sixth nerves. Course and Distribution.—The nerve enters the dura mater behind the dorsum sellae, and passing forwards in the floor of the cavernous sinus, close to the outer side of the carotid artery, enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, between the heads of the external rectus muscle, and is entirely distributed to that muscle, piercing it on the ocular surface. In entering the orbit between the heads of the n n 2