MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 213 Nerv-ess. All the muscles in front of the leg-, together with the extensor brevis digitorum, are supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. EXTERNAL REGION. The peroneus longus muscle arises from the head of the fibula, and from the upper two-thirds of the external surface of that bone ; from the lascia of the leg ; and from the intermuscular septa on either side. It ends above the ankle in a tendon which passes downwards behind that of the peroneus brevis in the hollow behind the external malleolus, and in the same sheath of the external annular ligament with it; it then inclines forwards over the outer margin of the foot, and enters the groove on the lower surface of the cuboid bone, proceeding inwards and forwards to be inserted into the lower part of the internal cuneiform and the tarsal end of the first metatarsal bone : an offset is continued from it to the base of the second metatarsal bone. Relations.—At its origin tbe peroneus longus lies between the extensor com- munis digitorum in front and the soleus and flexor longus pollicis behind ; in the lower part of the leg it lies behind the peroneus brevis. Beneath the external annular ligament the tendons of both peronei are surrounded by the same, synovial sheath. In the sole of the foot the tendon of the peroneus longus lies in a fibrous sheath formed by the long plantar ligament, and is enclosed by a tubular sheath of synovial membrane. A small sesamoid cartilage is sometimes found in that part of the tendon which lies in the groove of the cuboid. The peroneus brevis arises from the lower two-tliirds of the external surface of the fibula, internal to the peroneus longus, and from the intermuscular septa on either side. Its tendon passes behind the external malleolus, and inclining forwards, is inserted into the projec- tion at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. Relations.—In front it is in contact with the extensor longus digitorum and the peroneus tertius, and behind with the peroneus longus and flexor longus pollicis. Behind the malleolus it is enclosed in the same fibrous and synovial sheaths with the tendon of the peroneus longus, but over the calcaneum it traverses a separate sheath above that for the peroneus longus, but lined by an offset of the same synovial membrane. Varieties.—The following are the most common :—Tire peroneus accessorius (Henle) arises from the fibula between the peroneus longus brevis and joins the tendon of the former in the sole of the foot. The peroneus quinti diffiti arises from the lower fourth of the fibula under the peroneus brevis, and is inserted into the aponeurosis on the upper surface of the little toe ; or it may arise from the tendon of the peroneus brevis itself. (Haflet, Wood, Macalister.) Peroneus quart us (Otto) arises from the back of the fibula, between the peroneus brevis and the flexor pollicis, and is inserted into a tubercle on the os calcis, behind the tendons of the peroneal muscles. (Macalister.) Nerves.—The peroneus longus and brevis are supplied by the musculo-cutaneous branch of the popliteal nerve. POSTERIOR REGION. The muscles at the back of the leg consist of a superficial group inserted into the extremity of the calcaneum, and a deeper group covered in by a deep fascia and descending to the sole. The superficial group consists of three muscles ; two of them, placed one on the surface of the other, are of large size, the gastro- cnemius and soleus, form the bulk of the calf of the leg, and arc inserted into the heel by a common tendon—the tendo Achillis; the third, a small muscle, the plantar is, descends between the other two.