PECTGJJALIS MAJOR MUSCLE. 195 hyoid ; 3, upper, 3', lower belly of the omo-hyoid; 4, levator anguli scapulas; 4', 4", scalene muscles ; 5, anterior part of the trapezius ; C, deltoid ; 7, upper part of the triceps brachii in the left arm; 8, teres minor; 9, teres major; 10, latissimus dorsi ; 11 peetoralis major ; 11', on the right side its clavicular portion ; 12, part of the peetoralis minor ; 13, serratus magnus ; 14, external oblique muscle of the abdomen ; 15, placed on the xiphoid cartilage at the upper end of thejinea alba ; 15', is placed on the umbilicus ; 16, is placed over the symphysis pubis, and at the lower end of the linea alba, above 16, the pyramidal muscles are seen through the abdominal aponeurosis ; 15 to 17, the linea semilunaris at the outside of the rectus muscle, the transverse tendinous lines of which are seen through the abdominal aponeurosis ; 18, part of the gluteus medius ; 19, tensor vaginaj femoris ; 20, rectus femoris ; 21, sartorius ; 22, femoral part of theiliacus and psoas ; 23, pectineus; 24, adductor longus ; 25, gracilis. On each side of 16, the external abdominal ring i/i indicated. It is further prolonged upwards by a slip which runs over the bicipital groove to the great tuberosity, and gives an offset to the head of the humerus. The lower or doubled end of the tendon is closely united | with the insertion of the deltoid, and a slip is prolonged from its inferior i margin to the fascia of the arm. Fig. 167.—View op some op Fig. 167. THE BEEPEIt MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER AND TRUNK, FROM BEFORE. (A.T ) | On the right side the pec- toralis major and external oblique muscles have been re- moved. a, coracoid process of scapula ; b, manubrium of sternum; c, c, cartilages of the fifth ribs ; cl, ensifonn portion of the sternum ; 1, upper part of the levator anguli scapulas muscle; 2, on the middle of the clavicle, points to the subclavius muscle; 3, peetoralis minor ; 4, subscapu- laris ; 4', its insex-tion into the lesser tuberosity of the bump- _ ms ; 5, coraco-brachialis cut ! short; 6, coracoid, and 6'glenoid head of the biceps brachii, both ft cut short near the jslace where they unite into one muscle ; 7, )A on the tendon of the latissimus j dorsi, points by a line to the ten- t» don of the teres major, both I- cut short and passing to their ■h insertion inside the bicipital groove ; 8, folded tendon of the I peetoralis major ; 9, insertion ■ of the deltoid; 10, brachialis ■ anticus, embracing the insertion ■ seen °/ “‘T ,hcad of tho tricePs> the middle head of which i eighth ribs°Boiit tl S® .tencl0.ns °* t le latissimus and teres ; 12, 12, on the fifth am g ®, point to the insertion of the serratus magnus ; 13, 13', recti abdominis. nor margin^?hfp(!°!deil1 mfenor border of tlie peetoralis major forms the ante muscle fmm v- v, . . ^ > the superior runs parallel with that of the deltoic towards the fil, 1 18 separated only by a slight interval which becomes wide: of the acrnmioT? °’ and 111 w^ich run the cephalic vein and the humeral brand greater part of' -!°iacic Tho anterior surface is subcutaneous in th< 1 °f lts extent> temg covered only by some of the fibres of th<