EXTENSOR MUSCLES OF TIIE THUMB. 219 the groove on the outer border of the lower extremity of the radius, and is inserted in the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Relations. The upper part of this muscle is concealed by the common extensor, but it becomes superficial beneath, and together until the next muscle crosses the tendons of the radial extensors of the carpus, conceals the insertion of the supinator longus, and, beneath the extremity of the radius, crosses the radial artery. The extensor primi internodii pollicis muscle lies close to the lower border of the extensor ossis metacarpi, and is much smaller than that muscle ; it arises from the interosseous ligament and the radius near the middle of the forearm ; its tendon accompanies that of the extensor ossis metacarpi through the same compartment of the annular liga- ment, and passes on to be inserted into the proximal end of the first phalanx. The extensor secundi internodii pollicis muscle, much larger than the extensor primi internodii, which it overlaps, arises immediately below the extensor ossis metacarpi from the shaft of the ulna for two or three i inches, and from the interosseous ligament at its lower end for about Fur. 178. Fig. 178.—Superficial Mus- cles and Tendons on the Back of the Wrist and Hand (after Bourgery). The posterior annular liga- ment of the wrist is represented. 1, extensor ossis metacarpi pol- licis ; 1', its insertion ; 2, ex- tensor primi internodii pollicis; 2', its insertion ; 3, 3', tendon of the extensor secundi inter- nodii pollicis ; 4, extensor com- munis digitorum ; 4', tendon to the middle finger, receiving the insertion of the second and third dorsal interossei; 4", division of the tendon into three portions, of which the median is inserted into the second phalanx, the two lateral passing on to be inserted into the terminal phalanx ; the union of the tendons of the third, fourth, and fifth fingers is shown ; 5, extensor minimi digiti ; 5', its junction with the slip of the common extensor ; 6, placed on the lower end of the ulna, points to the extensor carpi ulnaris; 6', insertion of this muscle into.the base of the fifth metacarpal bone ; 7, part of the flexor carpi ulnaris ; 8, placed on the os magnum, points to the insertion of the extensor carpi radialis brevior ; 8', placed radialis^lrmn^ ^ie second metacarpal bone, points to the insertion of the extensor carpi pollicis ami !w‘{ tenclon °f the extensor indicis ; 10, small part of the adductor pumus, ana deep head of the flexor brevis abductor indiuisi • • +1 4.1 . mou uuioui mtciUSOUUUS Ul’ radial side in., .ot . tliree interosseous spaces are seen in succession, from the X1' hG of thc palmar, second dorsal, third dorsal, second palmar, fourth dorsal, and third palmar interossei muscles ; 12, abductor minimi digiti!