BONES OF THE HEAD. 36 torm the internal and external angular processes. The internal is but slightly marked ; the external is strong- and projecting, and articulates -with the malar bone. The temporal ridge springs from the external Fig. 31.—Frontal Bone from: BEFORE, SHOWING ITS EXTER- NAL Surface. (A. T.) 4 1, frontal eminence ; 2, nasal spine, and above this the ser- rated surface for articulation of the nasal and superior maxil- lary bones ; 3 to 4, supra-orbital edge—3, internal, and 4, exter- nal angular process ; 5, supra- orbital notch or foramen; 6, glabella ; 7, superciliary emin- ence and ridge; 8, temporal ridge, and behind this a part of the temporal fossa. process, and arches up- wards and backwards to be continued on the parietal bone : it separ- ates the temporal from the frontal part of the outer surface of the bone. Inferior surface.—The orbital surfaces are somewhat triangular, their internal margins being parallel, while the external are directed backwards and inwards. Close to the external angular process is the fossa lachrymalis, which lodges the lachrymal gland ; and close to the internal angular process is a small impression where the pulley of the trochlearis muscle is attached. Between the orbits in front is the serrated surface which articulates with the superior maxillary and nasal bones, and in the middle line a sharp process of variable length, the nasal spine, descends between the latter bones and the central plate of the ethmoid. Between the incisura ethmoidalis and the inner margin of the orbit is an irregular surface occupied with depressions forming the roofs of cells in the ethmoid bone. Traversing this surface are two grooves, which complete, with the ethmoid, the anterior and posterior internal orbital foramina. The anterior groove transmits the nasal twig of the ophthalmic nerve and the anterior ethmoidal vessels ; the other, the posterior ethmoidal vessels. Further forward, on each side of the nasal spine, is the larger opening of the frontal sinus, a cavity which extends within the bone for a variable distance behind the superciliary ridges. Outside and behind the orbital surface, there is a large serrated triangular area which articulates with the great wing of the sphenoid. Cerebral surface.—This surface forms a large concavity, except over the roofs of the orbits, which are slightly convex. Upon it are seen the impressions of the cerebral convolutions, which, with the inter- vening ridges, are strongly marked over the orbits. A groove, the sulcus frontalis, lodging the longitudinal sinus, descends from the middle of the upper margin of the bone, and is succeeded by the crista frontalis, a ridge which runs down to the lower margin. A small fora- men, usually formed in part by the central plate of the ethmoid, is