345 PULMONARY ARTERIES AND VEINS. p;„ 241. General View of tiie Heart and Blood-Vessels, from before and FROM THE RIGHT SIDE IN A MALE ADULT. | A, Right auricle; B, left auricular appendix; C, right ventricle ; D, part of the left ventricle ; I, aortic arch, and descending aorta ; II, trunk of the pulmonary artery dividing into its right and left branches, and connected to the aorta by the cord of the ductus arteriosus ; III, vena cava superior ; IV, vena cava inferior. 1, innominate artery and right carotid]; 1', left carotid ; 2, right and left subclavian arteries ; 3, intercostal vessels ; 4, inferior diaphragmatic arteries; below 4, the coeliac axis and superior mesenteric artery; 5, renal arteries ; 6, 6', the spermatic arteries ; below 6, the inferior mesenteric ; 7, 7', nght and left common iliac arteries ; 8, 8', external iliac arteries ; 9, left epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries; 10, 10', internal iliac arteries; and between these two figures, the middle sacral artery; 11, femoral arteries ; 2, profunda femoris artery of the left side. a, right brachio-cephalic vein ; the left; b, U, right and left subclavian veins ; b", the cephalic vein of the right arm ; c, c', internal jugular veins ; c", right facial vein joining the internal jugular ; d, external jugular veins formed by the posterior auricular and temporal; d\ anterior jugular veins with the transverse joining the external jugular; e, azygos vein passing over the root of the right lung ; /, the hepatic veins ; </, origin of the renal veins -; to the sides are seen the kidney and the suprarenal bodies ; ;/, right, c/', left ureter; h, right spermatic vein ; h1, the left, joining the left renal vein; i, i, common iliac veins; i', external iliac veins ; k, femoral veins ; l, saphenous vein of the right side. For fuller information on the natural and abnormal distribution of the blood-vessels, the reader may consult the works of Haller and Tiedemann, and more especially the “ Anatomy of the Arteries,” by Richard Quain, 1844; the third volume of Henle’s “ Systematic Work,” 1868, in which a connected view of the varieties is given ; and other ; special treatises. The sanguiferous system consists of two great divisions, compre- f hended in the lesser or pulmonic and the greater or systemic circula- tions. To the former belong the pulmonary arteries and veins, which I will be first described. PULMONARY ARTERIES AND VEINS. PULMONARY ARTERY. The main pulmonary artery is a short wide vessel, which carries f ^ie dark blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. It arises !I from the infundibulum or conus arteriosus of the right ventricle, and passes for the space of nearly two inches upwards, and at the same time ■ backwards and to the left side, to reach the concavity of the aortic arch, * . eie it divides into two branches—the right and left pulmonary arte- ries. The mode, of attachment of the main pulmonary artery to the base of the ventricle has already been fully noticed. At each side of its commencement is the corresponding coronary artery springing from the aorta, and close to its side are the two auricular appendages.0 It is at first m front of the aorta and conceals the origin of that vessel; but ngher up, where it lies in front of the left auricle, it passes to the left I p “?e ascending aorta, and is finally placed beneath the middle Un.ov vth° arC K . rjl|ic pulmonary artery and the aorta are united to- Cvliif'b P ,C?!inec^ve tissue and by the serous layer of the pericardium, bnih vJfitlle «pace of about two inches forms a single tube around neetprl ^jfc ler.to tlie leffc of ifcs point of bifurcation it is con- cord wl-nnb un(ler,fiide of tde aortic arch by means of a short fibrous ’ passes oblicpiely upwards, backwards, and to the left. This