257 MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. T j dig-iti, and is covered by the plantar fascia, which adheres very closely to the I posterior part of its surface, and gives origin there to some of its fibres; it e conceals the flexor accessorius, with the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, | the lumbricales, and the plantar vessels and nerves. Varieties. This muscle has been seen with only three tendons, that for the j little toe being absent; or with five tendons, two to the second toe. The slip to j the little toe frequently arises as a small fusiform muscle from the side of the 1 long flexor tendon, or from the flexor accessorius ; or it may arise by two heads, 1 one from the long flexor, the other from the inner tubercle of the os calcis. The abductor pollicis pedis muscle arises from the inner part of {the larger protuberance of the calcaneum, from the internal annular j ligament and the tendinous and fibrous structures on the inner border 1 of the foot as far forwards as the internal cuneiform bone, from the 2 septum between it and the flexor brevis digitorum, and from the plantar I fascia covering it. The fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which, after :I uniting with the internal head of the flexor brevis pollicis, is inserted into the inner border of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Relations.—It is covered by the thin internal division of the plantar fascia, j Its deep surface is in contact with the tendons of the tibialis anticus and pos- 1 ticus, and of the long flexor muscles, with the flexor brevis pollicis, and with the i plantar vessels and nerves. Varieties.—The abductor pollicis sometimes sends a slip to the base of the fj first phalanx of the second toe. Another slip is occasionally given to the skin of ;tj the ball of the great toe. The abductor minimi digiti muscle has a wide origin behind, f from the front of both tubercles on the under surface of the os calcis, C from the external intermuscular septum, and from the deep surface of the process of the plantar fascia which extends from the external j tubercle to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The fleshy fibres i end in a tendon, which after sliding along a smooth impression on the i inferior surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, is inserted 1 into the external surface of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Relations.—This muscle is covered by the plantar fascia. Its deep surface is 9 in contact with the external head of the flexor accessorius, the ligamentum. 2 longum plantEe, the peroneus longus, and the flexor brevis minimi digiti. Varietg.—The abductor ossis metatarsi minimi digiti is an occasional muscle f which arises from the external tubercle of the os calcis, and is inserted into the I spur-like process of the fifth metatarsal bone beneath the outer margin of ■i the plantar fascia. It may be adherent to the abductor minimi digiti, and it has been seen inserted into the middle or even the anterior part of the metatarsal < bone. It was first described as a human muscle by Wood, and it occurs nearly once in every two subjects. (Wood, Macalister.) The Second Layer of Muscles.—The flexor accessorius and the lumbricales muscles composing this layer, have been already described 1 (p. 253) with the tendons of the long flexor muscles, with which they are intimately associated. The 1 iiird Layer of Muscles.—The flexor brevis pollicis pedis arises by a flat tendinous process from the inner border of the cuboid bone and from the fibrous band sent to the cuneiform bones from the ■ of the tibialis posticus. The muscle is single and pointed 1 ? I11"’ out in front it divides so as to form two muscular bellies hi11 are inserted by tendons one into the inner border of the base of ie ist phalanx in union with the abductor pollicis, the other into the outer border in union with the adductor. VOL. I.