163 THE IIIP-JOINT. through which pass the obturator internus muscle and the internal pudic vessels and nerve. . . The pubic articulation, or symphysis pubis, is the connection ot the pubic bones in front, and is effected by fibro-cartilaginons plates and li"aments The adjacent surfaces of bone are each coated with car- ti?a"e and to this is attached the fibro-cartilage which unites them. The fibro-cartilage is thicker and stronger in front than behind, and generally contains a synovial cavity towards the uppei and back pait of the joint. The ligaments are named anterior, posterior, superior, and inferior. The anterior pubic ligament consists of irregular fibres passing obliquely across from bone to bone in front of the symphysis. The superior and posterior ligaments consist of only a few fibres on the upper and back part of the articulation. The inferior or subpubic ligament, thick and triangular, is attached to the rami of the pubic bones, giving smoothness and roundness to the subpubic angle, and forming part of the outlet of the pelvis. The obturator membrane, or ligament, is a fibrous septum attached to the border of the thyroid foramen, which it closes, except at the upper and outer part of its circumference, where a small oval canal is left for the obturator vessels and nerve. The membrane is fixed accurately to the bony margin at the upper and outer sides of the foramen, and to the posterior surface at the inner side. The obturator muscles are attached to its surfaces. Movements.—In ordinary circumstances there is very little movement allowed between the bones of the pelvis. In the erect posture the sacrum is thrown so much backwards that none of the advantage of the key-stone of an arch is obtained by the tapering of its form from base to apex. It is only by the sinuosities of its auricular surfaces that it directly presses on the hip-bones ; and as the width of the bone rather diminishes at the upper or ligamentous part, the principal strain is borne by the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, from which the sacrum is in great measure suspended (see fig. 148). The space which might be gained by the small amount of movement which is allowed between the bones •of the pelvis in the ordinary state is increased during parturition in this way. that the lower part of the sacrum being pressed backwards, the wider part of the wedge formed by this bone is forced farther between the ossa innominata, so as to separate them to a greater degree, and thus to increase the capacity of the pelvis. During pregnancy, also, a slight amount of separation may occur at the symphysis pubis from relaxation of the connecting parts. (See Wood, article “Pelvis” in “Cyclop aid. of Anat. and Physiol.Zaglas, in Monthly Joura. of Med. Science, 1861; J. M. Duncan, in Dublin Quart. Joum. of Med. Science, 1864, and Edin. Med. Joum. 1855 ; Struthers, “ Anat. Observ.”) ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. THE HIP-JOINT. This is a large ball and socket joint, in which the globular head of the femur is received into the acetabulum or cotyloid cavity of the innominate bone. The articular surface of the acetabulum is formed • by a broad riband-shaped cartilage occupying the upper and outer part, and folded round a depression which, extending from the notch, is >; hollowed out in the bottom of the cavity, and is occupied by delicate >( adipose tissue covered with synovial membrane, the so-called synovial I or Haversian gland. The articular surface of the femur presents a ■' little beneath its centre a pit in which the round ligament is attached.