TARSAL ARTICULATIONS. u* third and fourth metatarsal bones, after covering the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. The short or deep-seated plantar liga- ment lies close to the bones, being separated from the superficial part by some cellular tissue. Its breadth is considerable, its length scarcely an inch. One extremity is attached to the calcaneum in front of the long ligament, the other, somewhat expanded, to the under surface of the cuboid bone, internal to the tuberosity. The dorsal or superior ligament is a flat band ot fibres which connects the anterior and upper surface of the calcaneum ith the adjacent part of the cuboid bone. # . . . The internal or interosseous ligament is placed deeply in the hollow between the astragalus and os calcis, and is closely connected with the external calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. A separate synovial membrane lines this joint. Articulations of the Scaphoid, Cuboid, and Cuneiform Bones, ONE WITH ANOTHER.—Scapho-Cuboid Articulation.—The scaphoid and cuboid bones are connected by a dorsal ligament, composed of short Fig. 159. Fig. 159.—Ligaments of the Foot, from the outside and dorsal aspect. (A.T.) A 1, lower part of the interosseous membrane ; 2, lower anterior tibio-peroneal ligament; 3, lower postei-ior tibio-peroneal ligament ; 4, middle part of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, passing to the calcaneum ; 5, anterior part of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, passing to the astragalus ; below the last ligament the external calcaneo-talar ligament has not been represented in this figure ; 6, posterior part of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, passing to the astragalus ; 7, is placed above the interosseous calcaneo-talar ligament; 8, dorsal calcaneo-scaphoid ; 9, dorsal calcaneo-cuboid ; 10, part of the long plantar or calcaneo-cuboid ; 11, superior talo-sca- f phoid ; 12 and 13, second and third scapho-cuneiform, and between them one of tho intercuneiform ligaments ; 14, superior scaplio-cuboid ; 15, placed on the external mneiform bone, points to the cuneo-metatarsal ligaments from that bone to the second, diird, and fourth metatarsal bones ; 16, cuneo-metatarsal ligament, from, the first cunei- ' :orm to the second metatarsal bone ; between 12 and 16, are seen the cuneo-metatarsal j igaments which converge from the three cuneiform bones on the second metatarsal; 17, ; mbo-metatarsal ligament passing to the fourth metatarsal bone ; 18, that to the fifth, i 19 and x x, dorsal intermetatarsal ligaments; 20, lateral metatarso-digital ; 21, 22, i ateral digital. VOL. i. N