MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 228 MUSCLES OF THE HIP. The muscles of this region are the three glutei, the pyriformis, the obturator interims with the gemelli, the obturator externus, and the quadratus femoris. Fig. 184. Pig. 184.—Superficial Muscles of the Hip and Tuigii, seen from behind. A. T. j 1, gluteus medius, covered by the fascia lata ; 2, middle of the gluteus maximus ; 2', placed on the fascia lata below the place where the gluteus maximus is inserted into it, and above the insertion of the muscle into the femur ; 3, vastus extemus ; 4, biceps flexor cruris ; 4', tendon of the biceps, receiving on its outer side the oblique fibres of the short head; 5, 5', semitendinosus; 6, semimem- branosus ; 7, 7', gracilis ; 8, sartorius ; 9, ad- ductor magnus ; 10, outer, and 11, inner head of the gastrocnemius ; 12, placed in the pop- liteal space, points to the origin of the plantaris. The gluteus maximus is a very large and coarsely fasciculated muscle, somewhat quadrilateral in shape, which . arises from the posterior fifth of the iliac crest, and from the adjacent rough surface of the ilium ; from the posterior surface of the last piece of the sacrum ; from the side of the coccyx ; from the great sacro-seiatic ligament; and between the sacrum and the ilium, from the aponeurosis of the muscles of the back. Thence it passes downwards and outwards ; the fibres of its lower third are inserted into an elongated rough impression, ex- tending from the base of the great trochanter to the linea aspera ; and those of the upper two-thirds into a thickened portion of the fascia lata of the thigh over the great trochanter ; a few of the lowest fibres also ter- minate in the fascia. Relations.—Tlie lower border of the mus- cle lies in the fold of the nates. The deep surface rests on the gluteus medius and pyriformis muscles, the tendon of the ob- turator intemus, with the two gemelli. the quadratus femoris, a small portion of the adductor magnus, the great trochanter, the ischial tuberosity, and the origin of the hamstring muscles ; it covers also the sciatic artery and nerves as they emerge from the pelvis below the pyriformis, the superficial branch of the gluteal artery passing out above that muscle, and the pudic artery and nerve lying behind the spine of the ischium. Between the tendon of the muscle and the great trochanter of the femur, are