SUTRA-HYOID MUSCLES. 2S3 t from the body of the os liyoides to the chin. It sometimes consists of two i parallel bands, and Macalister suggests that it may be a differentiated portion of the platysma. The stylo-liyoid muscle lies close to the posterior belly of the ; digastric muscle, being a little behind and beneath it. It arises from the outside of the middle of the styloid process of the temporal bone, and inclines downwards and forwards, to be inserted into the os hyoides ; at the union of the great cornu with the body. Its fibres are usually divided into two fasciculi near its insertion, for the transmission of the / tendon of the digastric muscle. Relations.—The upper part of the stylo-hyoid muscle lies deeply, being covered 1 by the stemo-mastoid and digastric muscles, and by part of the parotid gland ; the middle crosses the external carotid artery; the insertion is comparatively I superficial. Varieties.—This muscle is sometimes wanting ; occasionally a second is present (stylo-hyoideus alter,—Alb.) The position too may be varied—it has been found to the inner side of the external carotid artery instead of over that vessel. (“ The Anatomy and Operative Surgery of the Arteries,” by R. Quain, plate 12, fig. 5. . Macalister, Journal of Anat., vol. v., p. 28.) The mylo-liyoid muscle arises from the mylo-hyoid ridge along the inner surface of the lower jaw, extending from the last molar tooth to the symphysis. The posterior fibres are inserted into the body of the Fig. 209.—A, the Lower Jaw and Hyoid Bone, from below, with the Mylo-Hyoid I Muscles attached. ! B, the same from behind, with TnE Mylo- Hyoid and Genio-Hyoid Muscles attached. t (A. T.) $ a, the symphysis ; b, the angle of the lower jaw ; c, the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone ; cl, in B, the inferior dental fora- men and upper end of the mylo-hyoid ridge ; 1, 1', the mylo-hyoid muscles ; 2, 2', the j genio-hyoid muscles from above ; 3, the cut ; ends of the attachment of the genio-glossi muscles to the superior genial spines. os hyoides; the rest, proceeding parallel to the fibres behind, and becoming gradually shorter, join at an angle with those of the corres- ponding muscle, forming with them a sort of raphe along the middle line, from the symphysis of the jaw to the os hyoides.' Thus the two muscles together form a floor below the anterior part of the mouth (diajphragma oris of Meyer). Relation*.—'The lower surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle is covered by the digastric muscle, the submaxillary gland, and the submental vessels and nerve. e cep surface which looks upwards and inwards, is in contact with the g'enio- yoi eus and part of the hyo-glossus and stylo-glossus muscles, the ninth and gus a oi y nerves, the sublingual gland, and the duct of the submaxillary gland. e posterior border alone is free and unattached, and behind it the duct of the submaxillary gland turns, in passing to the mouth.