PALATE BONE. 49 ascending process, for articulation with the inferior turbinated bone, and behind that process the lachrymal groove. Behind the lachrymal groove is the large opening into the sinus ; behind the sinus the sur- face is rough for articulation with the palate-bone ; and traversing the lower part of this roughness is a smooth groove, passing downwards and forwards from the posterior margin, and completing with the palate bone the posterior palatine or palato-maxillary canal. The orbital surface extends from the margin of the orbit to the spheno-maxillary fissure, and is bounded externally by the surface for the malar bone, and internally by the lachrymal groove and a rough edge which articulates with the lachrymal, ethmoid, and palate bones. A groove commences in its posterior border, and leads forwards into a complete canal, the infraorbital, which opens anteriorly at the infra- orbital foramen. The maxillary sinus, or antrum of Highmore is a large cavity lying above the molar teeth and below the orbital plate, lined in the fresh state by mucous membrane, and communicating with the middle meatus of the nose. Its orifice is considerably diminished by con- tiguous bones, viz., by the uncinate process of the ethmoid, the inferior turbinated bone, and the palate bone. THE PALATE BONE, The palate bone forms the back part of the hard palate, and the lateral wall of the nose between the superior maxillary bone and the internal pterygoid process. It consists of a horizontal and a vertical plate united at a right angle, and of three processes, viz., the Fig. 41.—The Palate Bone op the Eight Side. (A. T.) | A, from tlie outside and behind ; B, from the inside. 1, the upper surface of the palatine plate; 2, its posterior curved border or palatine arch ; 3, posterior nasal or palatine spine; 4, the rough surface of adjacent articulation rising superiorly into the vomeric crest in A ; 5, 5, the nasal process ; 6, the ridge or shelf support- ing the inferior turbinated bone; 7, the sphenoidal process; 8, in B, the orbital process, showing a cellular cavity; 8', in A, its orbital surface; 9, the spheno- palatine notch ; 10, 11, 12, the pyramidal process—10, rough surface of union with the external pterygoid plate, 11, with the internal plate, and 12, the inter-pterygoid smooth surface ; 13, 13, groove of the palato-maxillary or posterior palatine canal. Fig. 41. A pyramidal process, extending outwards and backwards from the junction of the horizontal and vertical plates, and the orbital and sphe- noidal processes, surmounting the vertical plate. The palate bone articulates with its fellow, and with the superior maxillary, ethmoid, sphenoid, vomer, and inferior turbinated bone. I he horizontal or palate plate presents pos- teriorly a thin free border, forming the limit of VOL. I, ° the hard palate, and E