8 OSTEOLOGY. animal constituent or organised basis of the bone-tissue, which retains not only the general form, but also the minute structure of the original bone. This is a tough, flexible, and mainly fibrous substance, which is capable ot being in great part resolved into gelatin by boiling. 1 he ends of the bones, when jointed moveably with others, are covered by a thin layer of dense permanent cartilage, called articular cartilage ; and the adjacent bones arc united together by fibrous ligaments which may be considered as continuous with the periosteum covering the rest ol the bones. In some instances distinct bones are directly united by means of ligament or cartilage wdthout any joint-cavity intervening. Thus the osseous system as a whole may be considered to be enveloped by a fibrous covering. The bones are originally formed by a process termed ossification from soft substance. This process commences in the greater number of bones in cartilage ; in some it begins in fibrous tissue or membrane; and in all instances the further growth of the bone substance takes place largely in the latter way. The deposit of bone begins generally at one spot, which is therefore called the original point or primary centre of ossifica- tion ; but there are sometimes several of these from the first. In most bones, after considerable advance in growth by extension from the original centre, ossification occurs at comparatively later periods in one or more separate points, forming secondary or tertiary centres ; and the portions of bones so formed, and remaining united to the main part for a time by intervening cartilage, are termed epiphyses. In many instances entire consolidation of the bone by the osseous union of the epiphyses does not take place till the full size has been attained, and this may be as late as the twenty-third or even the twenty-fifth year of life. In their outward form the bones present much diversity, but have been reduced by anatomists to the following classes:—1. Long or cylindrical, such as the chief bones of the limbs. These consist of a body or shaft, cylindrical or prismatic in shape, and two extremities which are usually thicker than the shaft, and have smooth cartila- ginous surfaces for articulation with neighbouring bones. The shaft is generally hollow and filled with marrow, by which sufficient size and strength are attained without undue increase of weight. 2. Tabular or flat bones, like the scapula, ilium, and the bones forming the roof and sides of the skull. 3. Short bones, which are more or less rounded or angular, as in the carpus and tarsus. 4. Irregular or mixed bones, mostly situated symmetrically across the median plane of the body, and often of a complex figure, such as the vertebrae. In these differently shaped hones the osseous substance occurs in two forms, viz., the compact and the spongy. There is, however, no essential difference in structure or properties between these beyond that of thickness or thinness of the component material. The surfaces of bones present various eminences, depressions, and other marks, to designate which the following terms are in common use. Any marked bony prominence is called a process or apophysis, the main part of the bone being sometimes named diaphysis; while processes originally ossified from a distinct centre are during their separate condition named epiphyses. A slender, sharp, or pointed eminence is named a spine, or spinous process ; a blunt one a tubercle ; a broad and rough one a tuberosity. The terms crest, line, and ridge are usually applied to a prominent border, or to an elevation running some way along the surface of a bone. A head (caput, capitulum, or capitelliun) is a rounded process supported on a narrower part named the neck (cervix). The term condyle, some-