THE ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 469 deeply placed at the upper part of the leg, where those muscles are fleshy ; but it is comparatively superficial below, between their tendons, and comes forward upon the tibia. At the bend of the ankle it is covered by the annular ligament, and is crossed from without inwards by the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis. In its oblique course downwards the anterior tibial artery lies at first close to the interosseous ligament, and is then at a considerable distance from the spine of the tibia ; but in descending it gradually approaches that ridge, and towards the lower part of the leg is supported on the anterior surface of the bone. Relation to Veins and Nerves.—The anterior tibial artery is accompa- nied by two veins (vena3 comites). The anterior tibial nerve, coming from the outer side of the head of the fibula, approaches the artery at some distance below the place where the vessel appears in front of the interosseous ligament. Lower down, the nerve for the most part lies in front of the artery, but often changes its position from the one side of the vessel to the other. Branches.—Besides numerous small muscular branches, the anterior tibial artery furnishes the following. (a) The recurrent artery, given off as soon as the anterior tibial reaches the front of the leg, ascends through the fibres of the tibialis anticus, and, ramifying on the outside and front of the knee-joint, anastomoses with the inferior articular and other branches of the popliteal artery. (]>) Tire malleolar arteries, two in number, external and internal, are given off near the ankle-joint, but are veiy variable in size and mode of origin. The internal branch passes beneath the tendon of the tibialis anticus to the inner ankle, and communicates with branches of the posterior tibial artery. The external branch passes outwards under the tendon of the common entensor of the toes, and anastomoses with the anterior division of the peroneal artery, and also with some ascending or recurrent branches from the tarsal branch of the dorsal artery of the foot.—These malleolar arteries supply articular branches to the neighbouring joints. DORSAL ARTERY OP THE FOOT. The dorsal artery of the foot (dorsalis pedis), the continuation of the anterior tibial artery, extends from the termination of that vessel at the bend of the ankle, to the posterior end of the first metatarsal space. At this spot it divides into two branches, of which one pro- ceeds forwards in the first interosseous space, whilst the other dips into the sole of the foot, and terminates by inosculating with the plantar arch. The dorsal artery of the foot lies in the interval between the tendon ot the proper extensor of the great toe, and that of the long extensor of the other toes ; and is covered by a deep layer of fascia, which binds it to the parts beneath. Near its end it is crossed by the innermost tendon of the short extensor of the toes. Two veins accompany this artery ; the anterior tibial nerve lies on its outer side. Branches.—The principal branches of the dorsal artery of the foot are directed outwards and forwards upon the tarsus and metatarsus, and are named accordingly. Some small offsets also run obliquely inwards, and ramify upon the inner side of the foot. +1 e-t;afsal branch arises from the artery usually where it crosses t le scaphoid bone, but its point of origin varies in different instances.