247 face of the base of the fifth metatarsal Varieties—The peroneus tertius is sometimes as large as the extensor longus ~ ~ ^ — ~i**—***-m,<*, m , -i r. ■ EXTENSOR BREVIS DIGITORUM. digitorum, from the lower fourth of the inner surface of the fibula, from the lower part of the interosseus membrane, and from the inter- muscular septum which connects it on the outer side with the peroneus brevis. Its tendon is inserted into the upper sur- bone. Fig. 192.—Superficial Muscles and Tendons on the Dorsum of the Foot and Lower Part of the Front of the Leo (after Bourgery). j a, the tibia ; b, the fibula ; c, the scaphoid bone ; d, internal cuneiform bone ; 1, the tibialis anticus muscle ; 1', its tendon descending in the groove of the internal cuneiform bone ; 2, extensor longus pol- licis ; 2', its expansion on the dorsum of the great toe ; 3, extensor communis digitorum dividing into its four tendons for the toes ; 3', its expansion, and 3", final insertion (upon the second toe); 4, peroneus tertius ; 4', its expanded insertion on the base of the fifth metatarsal bone ; 5, soleus; 6, peroneus brevis ; 7, extensor brevis digitorum ; 7', 7", placed on the transverse band of aponeurosis, marks the first and fourth tendons of the extensor brevis muscle passing to join those of the long extensor; 8, 9, part of anterior annular ligament, and ligamentum cruciatum ; between 8 and c, the slings enclosing the extensor longus pollicis and tibialis anticus ; below 9, the outer part of the ligamentum cruciatum enclosing the tendons of the extensor communis and peroneus tertius ; 10, 11, dorsal transverse meta- tarsal band of aponeurosis. Relations.—It is placed to the outer side of the long extensor of the toes, with which it is usually united at its origin, and it passes through the same compartment of the annular ligament with that muscle. digitorum; it has been observed to terminate on the fourth metatarsal bone ; and it is sometimes altogether wanting. The extensor brevis digitorum pedis arises from the outer surface of the os calcis in front of the groove for the peroneus brevis muscle, and from the lower band of the anterior annular ligament. It divides into four tapering slips each of which terminates in a tendon ; the first or most internal of these, sometimes reckoned as a distinct muscle, is inserted separately into the dorsal surface of the first phalanx of the great toe near its tarsal extremity ; and the other three become severally united to the outer border of the extensor tendons proceeding to the three next toes. Relations.—It crosses the dorsum of the foot somewhat obliquely, resting on the tarsus and metatarsus, and lying beneath the tendons of the peroneus tertius and long extensor of the toes. Its inner tendon also crosses the dorsalis pedis artery and the anterior tibial nerve. Varieties.—The tendons of this muscle vary considerably both as to number and position, they may be reduced to two, or one of them may be doubled. The inner part of the muscle very commonly forms a distinct extensor brevis hallveis being separate at its origin from the rest of the muscle; this is regarded by Henle as the normal arrangement.