330 MUSCLES OF THE PERIN2EUM. Varieties.-—It is sometimes absent, and at other times one or more small muscular slips arc found lying on the same plane with it, in front or behind. The ischio-cavernosus, or erector penis muscle, embracing the crus penis, arises from the inner part of the tuber ischii, behind the ex- tremity of the crus penis, and from the pubic arch along the inner and outer sides of the crus. From this origin the fleshy fibres are directed forwards to a tendinous expansion which is spread over the lower surface of the crus penis, and is inserted into the under and outer surfaces of that body towards the fore part. Varieties.—Houston has described (Dublin Hosp., Reports, vol. v.), under the name of comprcssorcs roue dorsalis penis, two slips of muscle, separated from the erectores penis on each side by an interval, though apparently belonging to them. They are said to arise from the pubic arch, above the origin of the erector muscles and the crura of the penis, and, passing upwards and forwards, are inserted above the dorsal vein, by joining each other in the middle line. These muscles, which are well developed in the dog and several other animals, are by no means constant in the human subject. The bulbo-cavernosus or ejaculator urines, may be considered as a single muscle, consisting of two symmetrical parts. The fleshy fibres of the muscle take origin behind from the central tendon of the perineeum, and from a median tendinous raphe interposed between the two halves of the muscle. The larger number of the fibres are directed round the bulb and the adjoining part of the corpus spongiosum urethrae, and join above that body with those from the opposite side by a strong aponeurosis. At the fore part, a portion of the muscle passes over the sides of the corpus cavernosum, ana is attached to that body in front of the erector penis : from its insertion a tendinous offset is said to be prolonged over the dorsal vessels of the penis (Kobelt). The posterior fibres, shorter than the anterior, are inserted into the front of the triangular ligament. The fibres which invest the most prominent part of the bulb are more or less distinct from those contiguous to them, and have been described by Kobelt as forming a separate muscle, to which he has given the name compressor hem is- plucrium bulbi. The fibres of this muscular slip are connected by a small tendon, above the urethra, with the corresponding part of the opposite side. The deep transversus perinsei muscle is a thin rather inconstant fasciculus which, arising from the margin of the pubic arch, is directed inwards and meets with its fellow of the opposite side behind the bulb, at the central point of the peri mourn. Its fibres conceal Cowper’s gland. The constrictor urethrae muscle consists of a number of transverse fibres extending across the arch of the pubis, some of them above and others below "the membranous portion of the urethra, and closely embracing it. In some bodies a tendinous raphe, placed over the middle of the urinary canal, separates each stratum into lateral halves. Relations.—This muscle rests in contact with the deep layer of the triangular ligament, which separates it from the anterior fibres of the levator ani. Circular fibres of Santorini (stratum internum circulare, Muller). Beneath the transverse muscle just described is a series of circular in- voluntary muscular fibres, entirely surrounding the membranous par