SPHENOID BONE. 43 The great wings, alee majores, project outwards and upwards from the sides of the body. The back part of each is placed horizontally, and occupies the angle between the petrous and squamous portions of the temporal bone ; from its pointed extremity it sends downwards a short and sharp projection, the spinous process. The upper and fore part is vertical, and three-sided, lying between the cranial cavity, the orbit, and the temporal fossa. The cerebral surface of the great wing is concave, and forms part of the middle fossa of the base of the cranium. The external surface (temporo-zygomatic) is divided by a ridge into an inferior part, which looks downwards into the zygomatic fossa, and an elongated superior part, looking outwards, which forms a part of the temporal fossa. The anterior surface looks forwards and inwards, and consists of a quadrilateral orbital portion, which forms the back part of the external wall of the orbit, and of a smaller inferior portion which overhangs the pterygoid process, looks into the spheno-m axillary fossa, and is perforated by the foramen rotundum. The external margins between the cerebral and external surfaces articulate with the temporal and parietal bones ; anteriorly, the margin between the orbital and external surfaces articulates with the malar bone. The margin below this forms the upper part of the posterior boundary of the pterygo- maxillary fissure ; internally, the cerebral and orbital surfaces come into contact at the outer border of the sphenoidal fissure; and superiorly, the cerebral, orbital, and external surfaces surround the triangular area which articulates with the frontal bone. The smaU wings, alee minores (wings of Ingrassias), extend nearly horizontally outwards from the fore part of the superior surface of the body. The extremity of each is slender and pointed, and comes very close to, but not into actual contact with, the great wing. The superior surface forms part of the anterior fossa of the base of the cranium, the inferior overhangs the sphenoidal fissure and the back of the orbit. Fig. 37. Fig. 37.—The Sphenoid Bone froh before. (A. T.) § The indications where marked are the same as in the preceding figure. 17, marks the anterior opening of the Yidian foramen or canal ; 18, the external or temporal surface of the great wing ; 19, its orbital surface ; 20, the sphenoidal turbinated or spongy bone ; above 20, the opening into the sphenoidal sinus ; 21, the sphenoidal spine ; 22, the rostrum, and above 22, the inverted laminre, which fit with the edges of the vomer.'