587 BRACHIAL CUTANEOUS NERVES. Small internal cutaneous nerve.—The smaller internal cutaneous •; nerve, or nerve of Wrisberg, destined for the supply of the integument ! of the lower half of the upper arm on the inner and posterior aspect, I commonly arises from the inner cord of the brachial plexus in union 1, with the larger internal cutaneous and ulnar nerves. In the axilla it lies close to the axillary vein, but it soon appears on the inner side of , that vessel, and communicates with the intercosto-humeral nerve. It then descends along the inner side of the brachial vessels to about the middle of the arm, where it pierces the fascia, and its filaments are thence continued to the interval between the internal condyle of the humerus and the olecranon. Branches.—In the lower third of the arm, branches of this small nerve are directed almost horizontally to the integument on the posterior aspect; and the nerve ends at the elbow by dividing into several filaments, some of which are directed forwards over the inner condyle of the humerus, while others are pro- longed downwards behind the olecranon. Connection with the intercosto-humeral nerve.—This connection presents much variety in different cases :—in some, there are two or more intercommunications, forming a kind of plexus on the posterior boundary of the axillary space ; in others, the intercosto-humeral nerve is of larger size than usual, and takes the place of the nerve of Wrisberg, only receiving in the axilla a small filament from the brachial plexus; and this small communicating filament represents in such cases the nerve of Wrisberg. Musculo-cutaneous nerve.—The musculocutaneous or external cutaneous nerve is deeply placed between the muscles as far as the elbow, and below that point is immediately under -the integument. Arising from the brachial plexus opposite the small pectoral muscle, it perforates the coraco-brachialis muscle, and, passing obliquely across the arm between the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles, reaches the outer side of the biceps a little above the elbow. Here it perforates the fascia, and nearly opposite the elbow-joint it passes behind the median- cephalic vein, and, inclining outwards, divides into two branches which supply the integument on the outer side of the forearm, one on the anterior, the other on the posterior aspect. A. Branches in the arm :— a. A branch to the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps is given off before the nerve pierces the former muscle ; and other filaments are furnished to the coraco-brachialis, while the nerve lies among its fibres. 1). Branches to the biceps and brachialis anticus are given off while the nerve is between those muscles. c. Small filaments are given to the humerus and elbow-joint. B. Branches in the forearm :— a. The anterior branch descends near the radial border of the forearm. It is placed in front of the radial artery near the wrist, and distributes some filaments over the ball of the thumb. Piercing the fascia, it accompanies the arteiy to the jack part of the carpus. This part of the nerve is connected at the wrist with a branch of the radial nerve. k.?h& posterior branch is directed outwards to the back of the forearm, and rami es in the integument of the lower third, extending as far as the ■wrist. It communicates with a branch of the radial nerve, and with the external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. , Summary. The musculo-cutaneous nerve supplies the coraco- brachialis, biceps, and brachialis anticus muscles, aud the integument