4S6 VEINS OF TIIE HEAD AND NECK. these are more numerous in the deep than in the subcutaneous veins. Valves are constantly to be found at the entrance of branches in the- main vessels. SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF THE UPPER LIMB. The superficial veins of the upper limb arc much larger than the deep ; they lie between the skin and the fascia. At the upper part of Fig. 310. Fig. 310.— Sketch of the Superficial Veins of the Arm and Forearm fro it before, h 1, biceps muscle; a, radial veins : l, cephalic vein; c, ulnar veins ; d, some of the posterior ulnar veins ; c, basilic- vein dipping below the fascia ; f, median vein ; y, median basilic ; li, median cephalic. the forearm they are most frecpiently collected into three trunks, the radial, ulnar, and median veins. At the bend of the elbow the median vein divides into an outer and an inner vessel, named respectively median cephalic and median basilic, one- of which joins with the radial to form the cephalic vein, while the other joins with the ulnar to form the basilic. The two principal cutaneous veins of the forearm, the radial and the ulnar, commence on the dorsal surface of the hand, by a sort of plexus,, formed by the convergence of numerous small veins, which proceed from the dorsal surfaces of the fingers. The radial cutaneous vein commences by branches upon the dorsal surface of the thumb and fore finger. These ascend over the outer border of the wrist, and form by their union a large vessel, which passes along the radial border of the fore- arm, receiving numerous branches from the auterior and posterior surfaces. At the bend of the arm, in the groove external to the biceps muscle, it unites with the median-cephalic division of the median vein, to form the cephalic vein. The cephalic vein ascends along the outer border of the biceps muscle in the interval between the great pectoral and deltoid muscles, and finally, dipping in between those muscles, terminates in the axillary vein, between the coracoid process and the clavicle. The ulnar cutaneous veins are two in number, one on the front, the other on the back part of the forearm. The posterior ulnar cutaneous vein, begins on the back of the hand by branches, which unite to form a vein placed over the fourth metacarpal space, and called by some of the older anatomists “ vena salvatella.” This proceeds along the ulnar border of the forearm on the posterior aspect, and, below the bend of the elbow, turns forwards to join the anterior ulnar cutaneous vein, which ascends from the anterior surface of the wrist. At the bend of the elbow, the common ulnar cutaneous unites with the median basilic division of the median to form the basilic vein.