twigs on the meningeal artery; 5, facial THE CRANIAL NERVES. 5.r>0 descends in close contact with it, and is partly distributed to the submaxillary ganglion and partly blended with the lingual nerve in its distribution to the tongue. As this nerve crosses the tympanum, it is said to supply a twig to the laxator tympani muscle. The nerve to the stapedius muscle arises from the trunk of the facial opposite the pyramid, and passes obliquely inwards to the fleshy belly of the muscle. Fig. 343.—Geniculate Ganglion of the Facial Nerve and its Connec- tions from above (from Bidder). The dissection is made in the middle fossa of the skull on the right side; the temporal bone being removed so as to open the meatus intemus, hiatus Fal- lopii, and a paid of the canal of the facial nerve, together with the cavity of the tympanum, a, the external ear; b, middle fossa of the skull with the meningeal artery ramifying in it: 1, facial and auditory nerves in the meatus auditorius intemus ; 2, large super- ficial petrosal nerve; 3, small super- ficial petrosal nerve lying over the ten- sor tympani muscle ; 4, the external superficial petrosal joining sympathetic and chorda tympani; 6, nerves of the eighth pair. The chorda tympani is regarded by some anatomists as a continua- tion of the great superficial petrosal nerve. According to Owen, in the horse and calf, the portio dura being less dense in structure, the Vidian branch of the fifth may be distinctly seen crossing the nerve after penetrating its sheath, and separating into many filaments, with which filaments of the seventh nerve are blended, while a ganglion is formed by the superaddition of grey matter ; and the chorda tympani is continued partly from this ganglion, partly from the portio dura. (Hunter’s Collected Works, vol. iv., p. 194, note.) Posterior auricular branch.—This branch arises close to the stylo-mastoid foramen. In front of the mastoid process, it divides into an auricular and an occipital portion, and is connected with the great auricular nerve of the cervical plexus. It is said to be joined by the auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve. a. The auricular division supplies filaments to the retrahent muscle of the ear, and ends in the integument on the posterior aspect of the auricle. b. The occipital branch is directed backwards beneath the small occipital nerve (from the cervical plexus) to the posterior part of the occipito-frontalis muscle ; it lies close to the bone, and besides supplying the muscle, gives upwards filaments to the integument. Digastric and stylo-hyoid branches.—The digastric branch arises in common with that for the stylo-hyoid muscle, and is divided into numerous filaments, which enter the digastric muscle : one of these sometimes perforates the digastric, and joins the glosso-pharyngeal nerve near the base of the skull. The stylo-hyoid branch, long and slender, is directed inwards from Fig. 343.