MUSCLES OF TIIE ABDOMEN. 324 anterior wall of its slieath, causes the formation of corresponding transverse folds during its contraction, and may enable the separate paxts of the muscle to act on different portions of the abdominal wall. The pyramidalis muscle strengthens the inferior part of the rectus. Lining fascia of the abdomen.—On the inner surface of the wail oi the abdomen is a membranous structure which lines the visceral aspect of the deepest stratum of muscles ; it is divisible into two principal parts, the fascia transversalis and fascia iliaca. The fascia transversalis is named from its position on the deep surface of the transversalis muscle. It is strongest in the lower part of the abdomen, where the muscular and tendinous support is somewhat weaker.. Followed upwards from this situation, the transversalis fascia becomes gradually less strong, and beyond the margin of the ribs it forms a thin covering for the under surface of the diaphragm. Along the inner surface of the iliac crest, between the iliacus and transversalis muscles, the fascia is attached to the periosteum. For about two inches inwards from the anterior superior iliac spine, it is closely connected with the posterior surface of Poupart’s ligament, and is there directly continuous with the fascia iliac. At this place also, and to the same extent it is attached to the fascia lata. About midway between the iliac spine and the pubis, the external iliac artery and vein, as they pass out into the thigh, intervene between the fascia transversalis and the fascia iliaca, and from this point to the edge of Gimbernat’s ligament the fascia transversalis is prolonged downwards under the crural arch, and over the artery and vein, forming the anterior portion of the funnel-shaped femoral sheath. As this prolongation of the fascia passes under Poupart’s ligament, it is strengthened by a dense band of fibres (the deep crural arch) which arches over the vessels, and is inserted into the pubic crest and pectineal line behind the conjoined tendon of the transversalis and internal oblique. It includes beneath it, internal to the vessels, a space between Gimbernat’s ligament and the vein, suffi- ciently large to admit the point of the little finger; this is called the crural ring, and is the space through which femoral hernia descends. About half way between the anterior superior iliac spine and the sym- physis pubis, and about half an inch above Poupart’s ligament, the spermatic cord in the male, or the round ligament in the female, pierces the fascia transversalis. The opening thus made is called the internal or deep abdominal ring; the fascia above and internal to it is thin, hut below and external to it is firm and thick, and forms a distinct crescentic margin, over which the cord or round ligament passes ; from the borders of the opening a delicate funnel-shaped covering, the infundibuliform fascia, is prolonged downwards on the emerging structure, and forms in cases of oblique hernia one of the coverings of the tumour. The fascia iliaca, stronger than the fascia transversalis, lines the back part of the _ abdominal cavity, and covers the iliacus and psoas muscles. The densest portion of its fibres is stretched transversely from the iliac crest, over the margin of the psoas muscle to the brim of the pelvis, where it is intimately blended with the periosteum. Superiorly, this membrane, becoming much weaker, is connected internally with the sacrum, and by small and distinct processes with the intervertebral substances and the neighbouring margins of the lumbar vertebra;; and finally it becomes blended with the fascia which covers the diaphragm and forms the ligamentum arcuatum externum. The external iliac-