ARTICULATIONS OF THE U1TER LIMB. 154 olecranon process, thus completing the capsule of the joint be- hind. The synovial membrane extends upwards on the humerus so far as to line the fossae for the coronoid and olecranon processes, and is loose and vascular in the latter positions. It is also prolonged round the neck of the radius, and lines the annular ligament. Movements.—Flexion and extension are the only movements which can take place between the humerus and ulna ; and these are limited by the locking of the coronoid and olecranon processes in the respective fossae of the humerus which receive them. The path of motion is in a nearly vertical plane, with a direction slightly outwards. The inner lip of the trochlea being prominent below, forms an expansion which corresponds to an inward projection of the coronoid part of the ulnar surface, and is only brought into use in flexion ; and the outer lip of the trochlea, being everted at the upper and back part, forms a surface which is only in use in complete extension, and which then corresponds to a surface on the outer aspect of the olecranon, which comes into contact with no other part of the humerus. In flexion and extension the radius moves by its cup-shaped head upon the capitulum, and on the groove between that process and the trochlea, by a ridge internal to the cup. It is most completely in contact with the humerus in the position of semi-flexion and semi-pronation. In full extension and supination, the anterior margin of the head of the radius is barely in contact with the inferior surface of the capitulum. In full flexion the margin of the head of the radius rests against the pit above the capitulum. THE WRIST-JOINT AND ARTICULATIONS OP THE HAND. The radio-carpal articulation, or wrist-joint, is formed between the radius and triangular fibro-cartilage above, and the scaphoid, semilunar and cuneiform bones below. The superior surface, concave both transversely and from before backwards, is subdivided by linear ele- vations into three parts corresponding to the three bones below, the innermost part being formed by the fibro-cartilage. The inferior surface, convex in both directions, is prolonged further down upon the carpal bones behind than in front. The internal lateral ligament is a rounded cord passing directly downwards from the extremity of the styloid process of the ulna, to the cuneiform bone ; it also sends some fibres to the anterior annular ligament and the pisiform bone. The external lateral ligament extends from the styloid process of the radius to a rough surface on the outer side of the scaphoid bone, some of its fibres being prolonged to the trapezium, and also to the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. The anterior ligament, broad and membranous, consists partly of fibres which have a nearly transverse direction, partly of others which diverge as they descend from the anterior border of the radius to the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones ; some of them are continued to the os magnum. The posterior ligament extends obliquely downwards and inwards, from the extremity of the radius, to the posterior surface of the first row of the carpal bones, especially the cuneiform bone ; its fibres are prolonged some distance on the surface of the carpal bones. The” synovial membrane is reflected from the radius and the triangular fibro-cartilage, on the surrounding ligaments, and, after lining these, passes to the margins of the opposed surface of the carpal bones.