350 THE AORTA. aorta below the superior ^mesenteric artery (cut short) and the origin of the renal orterio . a little below this the origin of the spermatic arteries ; below //, the inferior mesent J • artery, 11, 11, two of the lumbar arteries. heart, comparatively small, arise from the two anterior sinuses of Valsalva, and are distributed to the walls of the heart. The other three are lanm primitive trunks, which supply the head and neck, the upper limbs and, in part, the thorax, and usually arise from the middle or highest part of the arch, in the following order :—first, the innominate or brachio-cephalic artery ; second, the left carotid; and, third, the left subclavian artery. The origin of the left carotid artery is usually somewhat nearer to the innominate artery than it is to the subclavian artery of its own side. Varieties.—It will be proper in this place to refer to the varieties which affect the whole aorta, as well as to those of the pulmonary arteries. The fonner may be distinguished, according as they occur in the whole length of the vessel, or belong to one or other of its parts, those which are very frequent in the arch being especially deserving of notice. These last are of peculiar interest, but as the full explanation of their mode of formation is connected with the history of foetal development, the reader is referred to the chapter on that subject for elucidation of the present outline of the nature of the varieties which is intro- duced in this place. 1. The Aorta may vary in its position and extent. Thus the height to which the arch rises in the upper part of the chest is found to be subject to variation to the extent frequently of from one to two vertebral spaces ; more rarely to a greater extent, so that while in some instances the summit of the arch has been on a level with the top of the sternum, in other cases it has been as low as the fourth or fifth dorsal vertebra. The distance to which the aorta extends downwards depends on the seat of its division into the common iliac trunks, which frequently varies to the extent of one of the lumbar vertebrae, so that the place of division may be as low down as on the fifth, or as high up as on the third. In other rarer cases the division occurs still higher. The position of the aorta with reference to the middle line or vertebral column is also subject to some variation, but such deviation to the side is more frequently the result of pathological changes than of congenital malformation. A very remarkable malformation of the aorta consists in the greater or less division of the vessel through a part or the whole of its channel into two closely united tubes, by a median septum running through the cylindrical tube from before backwards, or slanting from side to side, as in the cases observed by Cruveilhier, Vrolik, Schroder Van der Kolk, and Alien Thomson, which when not due to pathological changes may admit of explanation on the supposition of the fusion of the original double embryonic aorta having remained incomplete. 2. The Varieties of the Stems, or main trunks of the aorta and pulmonary artery, are intimately connected and usually associated with malformations of the heart, and frequently with the persistence of the ductus arteriosus. These first pai*ts of the two great arteries, specially enclosed by the pericardium, are derived from the arterial bulb of the foetal heart, and are liable to variations which may lie traced to deviations from the natural mode of their septal division, and of their union with the left or right ventricles of the heart respectively. Thus these two arterial trunks may be transposed, or each one may be connected with the ventricle to which it does not naturally belong, i.e., the pulmonary artery with the left, and the aorta with the right ventricle. Or the arterial trunks may communicate together more or loss freely by deficiency of the septum between them. Or one of the vessels may be nearly' or entirely obliterated ; while the other, from unnatural openings left between them, serves as the channel for the stream of blood belonging to both vessels. Or the aorta and pulmonary arteries may be entirely united in one simple stem in connection with a simple heart similar to that of fishes.