Fig. 145. ARTICULATIONS OF THE I'ELYIS. ICO of hip-joint : the figure is placed on its ilio-femoral band; 9, the upper part of the back pai't of the iliac fossa, where its fibres expand somewhat, so as to give it a triangular form. Articulation of the Sacrum and Coccyx, and of the Pieces OF THE Coccyx.—These articulations are effected by an anterior liga- ment, consisting of irregular fibres placed in front of the bones, a pro- longation of the anterior common ligament of the vertebrae; by a posterior ligament more strongly marked, the fibres of which descend upon the bones of the coccyx from the margin of the inferior orifice of the sacral canal; by fibrous bands extending between the cornua of the sacrum and coccyx; and by intervertebral discs between the con- tiguous surfaces of the bones. A distinct cavity is stated by Cruveilliier (“ Anatomie descriptive,” tom. i. p. 305. Paris, 1862), to be present in tbe centre of the disc in those cases in which the coccyx is freely moveable. This is in conformity with the more recent observations of Lusehka on the other intervertebral discs. In the male, after middle life, the union between the sacrum and coccyx, and between the pieces of the latter, is usually ossific. In the female this change does not generally Fi". 145.—Articulations op the Pelvis and Hip-Joint, seen from before. The ANTERIOR HALF OF THE CAPSULAR LIGAMENT OF THE LEFT HlP-JOINT HAS BEEN REMOVED, AND THE FEMUR ROTATED OUTWARDS. (A. T.) £ 1,1, anterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae passing down to the front of the sacrum and coccyx ; 2, ilio-lumbar ligament ; 3, anterior sacro-iliac liga- ment • between 2 and 3, on the right side, the sacro-vertebral ligament is shown, but not with sufficient distinctness; 4, placed in the great sacro-sciatic foramen, points to the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament; 5, a portion of the great sciatic ligament; 6, the anterior ligament of the symphysis pubis ; 7, the obturator membrane ; 8, the capsular ligament divided capsular ligament of the left hip-joint near the place of its attachment to the border of the acetabulum ; 10, placed on the os pubis of the left side above the trans- verse ligament of the acetabular notch. The head of the femur is withdrawn partially from the socket so as to show the round ligament stretched from the transverse ligament.