BONES OF TIIE HEAD. 62 between the maxillary and palate bones. Anteriorly, in the middle line, is the anterior palatine foramen, with the four smaller foramina contained within it; posteriorly, on each side, at the base of the alveolar arch, is the posterior palatine foramen, and externally and posteriorly to that, the posterior and external small palatine foramina. The palate is surrounded in front and on the sides by the alveolar arch bearing the teeth of the upper jaw. The middle chviswn extends back to the front of the foramen magnum. Its central portion has been called the guttural fossa. In the middle line is the basilar process of the occipital bone, and in front of that the body of the sphenoid bone, covered anteriorly by the extremity of the vomer. On each side, the petrous portion of the temporal bone reaches as far forwards as the extremity of the basilar process; and between the petrous and squamous portions of the temporal is the back part of the great wing of the sphenoid bone. Between this division of the base of the skull and the palate are the posterior nares, separated by the vomer, and bounded above by the body of the sphenoid bone, below by the horizontal plates of the palate bones, and on the sides by the internal pterygoid processes. Between the pterygoid plates is the pterygoid fossa; and placed in an oblique line backwards and outwards from this are the foramen ovale, foramen spinosum, and processus spinosus; while behind and parallel to these is a groove for the Eustachian tube, formed by the margins of the sphenoid bone and pars petrosa, leading into the Eustachian orifice, and in a line with the fissure of Glaser. Between the apex of the pars petrosa, the basilar process, and the sphenoid bone, is the foramen lacerum medium, on the external wall of which opens the carotid canal, and on the anterior the Vidian canal; it is closed interiorly by a plate of cartilage, and its area is crossed by the internal carotid artery and the Vidian nerve. Behind the pars petrosa, and bounded posteriorly by the jugular fossa of the occipital bone, is the foramen jugulare, or foramen lacerum posterius: it is divided into a large rounded part situated externally and posteriorly, bounded in front by the jugular fossa of the temporal bone, and occupied by the jugular vein; and a narrow angular part situated anteriorly and in- ternally, bounded by a portion of the pars petrosa distinct from the jugular fossa, and transmitting the eighth pair of cranial nerves. These two parts are sometimes separated by a spiculum of bone. In front of this is the carotid foramen, on its outside is the stylo-mastoid foramen and styloid process, and internal to it is the anterior condyloid foramen. The posterior division presents on each side of the foramen magnum, from within outwards, the occipital condyle, the rough surface for the rectus capitis lateralis muscle, the occipital groove of the temporal bone, the digastric fossa, and the mastoid process. Behind the foramen mag- num is the tabular part of the occipital bone, with its ridges and muscular impressions. THE INTERIOR OF THE CRANIUM. The walls of the cranium consist of two layers of compact bony sub- stance, the outer and inner tallies, and an intervening cancellated substance, called diploe. The inner or vitreous table, has a smooth, close-grained, shining appearance, is hard and brittle, and presents