Digitized by the Internet Archive , in 2016 i https://archive.Org/details/b21980160_0001I - c ::-^ ^ V *. , :, ^ Tffr-—-2^2;' • if i } X ' fS Y S T E M * Vh SURGERY. B Y A- BENJAMIN BELL, member of t,he royal colleges of surgeons OF IR'ELAND and EDINBURGH, ONE OF THE SURGEONS TO THE ROYAL INFIRMARY, AND FELLOW OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH. ILLUSTRATED WITH CQPPERPLATESr VOLUME sL i ■ The second EDITION, corrected. EDINBURGH: Printed for CHARLES ELLIOT, Edinburgh5 AND G. G. J. and J. ROBINSON, London. M,DCC,LXXXV.I \ { 1 i ■ < ^ f ♦i- 1 . : oV L U a <J V :. i' ^ ?• ■T O ALEXANDER MONRO, M. D. President of the Royal College ^oF Physicians, anb Professor op Medicine, Anatom^, and Surgery, IN the University of Edinburgh. S I R, The chair you have fo long and fo ably filled in this Univerfity, and the rank you hold in your pro- felfidn, point you but as a fit patron of fuch attempts as are made by your countrymen, for the improve- ment of the Art of Surgery. But I am actuated by another motive when I addrefs you on this occafion. For, having commenced the ftudy of anatomy under your aufpices, I confider myfelf as in- A 2 debtediv DEDICATION. \ debted to you in a particular man- ner, for any anatomical knowledge of which I am pofTelTed. I have therefore to delire, that you will accept of this public teftimony of my gratitude; and, if this Firll Vo- lume of a Syftem of Surgery merits any fhare of your approbation, may I requefl:, as an additional obliga- tion, the favour of that protedlion, which your countenance will be fure to afford it? I remain, very re^ fpedfully, S I R, Your obedient humble fervant, Benjamin Bell. Edin. Nov 7 '1782. jPREFACE SOME years ago I publifhed a Volume of Obfervations on different parts of Surgery ; and the indulgent reception with which it was favoured, has encouraged me to lay another vo- lume before the Public : This, as well as the former, is intended as part of a work, which, when completed, will form a general Syflem of Modern Surgery. In announcing an undertaking fo arduous and fo extenfive, it may be proper to explain the reafons which induced me to enter upon it, and to point out the plan upon which I intend to pro- ceed. The learned and judicious Helfter publifhed the laft edition of his Syftem of Surgery fo long ago as the year 1739. In this work, the author comprehends whatever the experience of former times had approved as ufeful; and adds fuch ob- fervations as his own knowledge in Anatomy and praftice in Surgery fuggefted. This was the firft, and it ftill remains the only complete Syftem of Surgery of which we are poffefled. ^ 3 SinceVI PREFACE, Since this publication of Heifter’s, many va- luable difcoveries and important improvements have been introduced ; and the Public has at different times been favoured with accounts of them by their refpedlive authors. But thefe pub- lications treat of various fubjefts, and are all ne- ceffarily unconnected with each other ; fo that the additional knowledge with which our art has been of late enriched, lies in a very diffufed, and to many perhaps in an inacceflible, fituation. It is true, that fome attempts have been made towards a full fyftematic arrangement of chirur- gical fubjeCls. Plainer publifhed his Inftitutes of Surgery in the year 1745 ; and Ludwig fa- voured the world with a fimilar publication in 1767. But both thefe works may be properly confidered as heads of leCtures which were read by thofe celebrated profelfors at Leipfic ; and al- though pofTeffcd of much merit, they are too concife to give a clear and diflinCl idea of the various topics of which they treat. In confequence of this, the young ftudent in the art, as well as the intelligent praCfitioner who is defirous of information, is obliged to con- fult a great variety of publications, which he fre- quently finds much difficulty in procuring, and which his other occupations will not always al- low him fufficicnttime to perufe. ' ■ ‘ InducedPREFACE. vii Induced by thefe confideratlons, and having frequently experienced much inconvenience from the want of a well-digefled Syftem of Surgery, I have been led to attempt the prefent work: Which, though it may not afford much new information to praditioners of experience and refledion, who are accuflomed to perufe every publication that appears; yet to the younger part ^of the profef- fion, and to all thofe whofe opportunities of ac- quiring knowledge have not been confiderable, I flatter myfelf it may prove ferviceable. My defign is, to exhibit a view of the art of Surgery, as it is at prefent pradifed by the moll expert furgeons in Europe, as far at leafl as my own obfervation in the courfe of attending different Hofpitals, joined to the advantages of reading and correfpondence, have enabled me to do fo. It may be proper to remark, that a number of improvements fuggefled at different times in va- rious parts of Surgery, are here purpofdy omit- ted, jWithih thefe laft thirty or forty years, fuch a rage has prevailed for the invention of new in- ftruments, that it has become fafhionable to ac- company every publication with fomething new and Angular of this kind. Some .of thefe have undoubtedly been produdive of much advan^ tage : But the greateft part of them tend more ' ^ A 4 tovlii PREFACE. to evince the ingenuity of their authors, than to render the operations for which they were in- tended, more cafily accomplifhed ; for, although facility in performance is one great obje61:in every furgical operation, yet the ends we have in view are in general attained by very Ample means. Indeed, one objed of the prefent publication, is, an endeavour to diveft the art of all that ufe- lefs machinery with which it has been encum- bered j and to retain only what appears evident- ly to reft upon the folid bafts of experience. I have therefore been particularly attentive, in ad- mitting nothing which 1 have not myfelf found confirmed by trial, or which I have not known to prove ufeful in the hands of others. My connexion w'ith a large hofpital, the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, to which the greatefl part of the poor in Scotland requiring the affift- aitce of chirurgical operations, are accuftomed to relort, together with that private pratlice which has fallen to my (hare, have given me opportu- nities, both of repeatedly performing every opera- tion myfelf, and of being frequently prefent when they were performed by fome of the moft expert furgeons of this place; a circumftance which en- ables me to fpeak with fome degree of confidence, though, 1 hope, with due caution, of each. With- out fuch advantages, I fliould not have thought my-PREFACE. ix myfelf juftifiable in undertaking the prefent Work; for it is chiefly by hofpital pradice that any indivi- dual can acquire fuch experience in the great va- riety of chirurglcal operations, as to be able to form any accurate ideas concerning them. It is not propofed in the courfe of the follow- ing Work, to attempt a particular fyflematic ar- rangement of the fubjeds of which it treats. Ar- rangements of this kind have indeed been em- ployed with advantage in different branches of fcience : The ftudy of Natural hiftory has been much facilitated by their means; and a knowledge of the more general difeafes to which the human body is liable, is perhaps acquired with more eafe by the comprchenflve views which a well digeft- ed nofological fyftem gives of them. But, as diforders of every kind requiring the affiftance of the operative part of Surgery, are perfedly local, and unconneded with one another by means of fymptoms common to each ; and as it feldom hap- pens, that there is much fimilarity in the means neceflary for the removal of fuch difeafes; the parade of claffification under fuch circumftances, although it may ferve. to difplay the fancy of an author, can have no eflfed either in rendering the fludy of Surgery more eafy, or the pradice of it more attainable. , Yet when one fubjed is naturally conneded withPREFACE. s: with another, I (hall not any-where attempt to feparate them j and when the dcfcription of any operation can be more eafily underftood from what has been faid concerning another, I fhall confider them in immediate fucceflion : But, in other inftances, where no connexion can be tra- ced between the different articles treated of, no methodical arrangement can be with advantage attempted. Were I to endeavour to trace the fucceffive im- provements which have been made in furgery within thefe laft fifty or fixty years, I fhould often find it difficult, and fometimes impoffible, to de- termine by whom the pradice, as it is now efla- blifhed, was introduced ; and in order to give a fair account of the progrefs of the different ope- rations of furgery, from their rude to their im- proved ftate, I fhould be under the neceffity of entering into a full chronological hiflory of each. While inquiries of this kind could ferve no ufe- ful purpofe, they wotild tend to render more pro- lix, a work, which, from the variety of its fub- jefts, muff neceffarily extend to a great length. I fhall therefore in general decline them. On fome occafions, however, when the author of any remarkable improvement is known with certain- ty, I fhall not fail to give him all the credit which his difcovery feems to merit. SuchP R E F x\ G E. %i Such of my readers as are fond of theoretical dlfquifitions, will, I am afraid, be frequently dif- appointed. When the fubjeft under confidera. tion can be rendered more clear and intelligible by it, I have occafionally employed fuch reafon- ing as experience and common fenfe feem evi- dently to fupport; but I have every-where ftudi- oufly guarded againfl: entering on the difcuflion of doubtful and fpeculative opinions. In confidering the different fubjefls, the appear- ance or fymptoms of the diforder—the ufqal cau- fes known to induce it—-its probable confequen- ces—and the beft method of treatment—are par- ticularly defcribed in fuccellion : and when an operation of importance is to take place, the parts which lie contiguous, but which the ope- rator ought to avoid, are pointed out, as well as thofe which he is under a necellity of dividing. In defcribing the different operations, I have uniformly adhered to the method at prefent prac- tifed by the beft furgeons, excepting in fuch in- ftances where improvements of my own are pro- pofed ; and none of thefe are any-where recom- mended, the utility of which has not been afeer- tained by repeated trials. In a work of this nature, it muft unavoidably happen, that on feveral occafions I differ in opi- nion from various refpeftable authors j but where- ■everxit PREFACE. ever I do fo, no other motive, I hope, will ap- pear for it, than a wi(h to render more perfeft, an art which 1 am attempting to defcribe and il- luftrate. I am fully aware of the difficulties to be en- countered in carrying on and completing this de- fign; and am fo diffident of my abilities tp do juftice to the undertaking, that, even after a con- fiderable part of the materials are prepared, I have chofen this mode of publifhing it in feparate volumes, that I may thereby haVe an opportunity of difcovering the fentiments of the public, with regard to its merit and utility; a circumftance, by which I will be in a great meafure determi- ned in the farther execution of my plan. CON-CONTENTS. CHAP. I. Page (ySuTURES, “ 17 SECTION I. Of Sutures in general, - - 17 SECTION II. Of the interrupted Suture, - 19 SECTION III. Of the filled Suture, - 24 SECTION IV. Of the Glovers Suture, - ^ 2(5 SECTION V. Of the Twifled Suture, - 27 CHAP. II. (yA Ligature of Arteries, and other means employed by Art for putting a flop to HeMORRHAGIES, - - 28 CHAP. III. Q/'Blood-Letting, - 77 SECTION I. Of Blood-letting in general, - 77 SECTION II. Of a Thrombus or Ecchymofs 107xiv CONTENTS. SECTION III. Of Wounds of the Arteries, - i i i SECTION IV. Of wounds or Pricks in the Nerves and Tendons, - - 119 SECTION V. Of Blood-letting in the Arm, - 148 SECTION VI. Of Blood-letting in the Jugular Vein, 154 SECTION VIE Of Blood-letting in the Ancles and Feet, 157 SECTION VIIL Of Arteriotomy, - - 160 SECTION IX. Of Topical Blood-letting, - 166 CHAP. IV. Of Aneurisms, - 178 SECTION I. General Remarks on Aneurifms, > 178 SECTION II. Of the Treatment of Aneurifms, - 216 CHAP. V. (yHERNI^, - 254 SECTION I. Of Hernics in general, - 254CONTENTS. XV SECTION II. Of the Bubonoceley - - 511 SECTION III. Of the Hernia Congenitay - 352 SECTION IV. Of the Crural or Famoral Herniay - 35 ^ SECTION V. Of the Exomphalosy or Umbilical Hernia, ^66 SECTION VI. Of Ventral Herniay - 372 SECTION VII. Of the Hernia of the foramen Ovale, 373 SECTION VIII. Of the Hernia Cyflica, or Hernia of the Uri- nary Bladdery - - 377 CHAP. VI. Hydrocele, 382 SECTION!. General Remarks on the Hydrocele, 382 SECTION II. Of the Anafarcous Hydrocele of the Scrotufn, 393 SECTION m. Of the Hydrocele of the Tunica VaginalisTeJlis, i\o6 SECTION IV. Of the Hydrocele of a Hernial Sac, . ^61 \CONTENTS. xvi S E C T 1 O N V. Of the Anafarcous Hydrocele of the Spermatic Cord, - ' - SECTION VI. Of the Encyfled Hydrocele of the Spermatic Cord, k - ^7^ C H A P. VII. HiEMATOCELE, . - 485 CHAP.' VIII. Of the Varicocele, CiRSGCELE, Sperma- tocele, and Pneumatocele, 495 CHAP. IX. Of the Sarcocele, or Scirrhous Tes- ticle, - ■ - 501 CHAP. X. Of the Diseases f the Penis, - 531 SECTION I. Of the Phymofs, - - 531 SECTION II. Of the Paraphymjis, • $39 SECTION III. Of Amputation of the Penis, ^c. .543 Explanation Plates, 55* IA 5 T R E A T I S E O N T H E THEORY AND PRACTICE O F SURGERY. CHAPTER I. Cy'SuTURES. SECTION I. Of Sutures In general, AS futures of one kind or another are found necelfary, not only in every large wound, but in almoft every opera- tion of importance^ the confideration of VoL, I» B thisOf Sutures^ i8 Chap. I. this fubjedl feems firft to require our at- tention. A variety of futures have been pra(5Hfed by furgeons, each of which has from* long experience been applied to a particular pur- pofe, viz. The interrupted future j the quill- ed future; the glover’s, and the twilled future., Many others are enumerated by ancient writers : but the four now men- tioned are the only fpecles of futures at prefent in ordinary ufe; and even of thefe, fome, we think, might with propriety be omitted. The intention of every future, is to unite parts, which either by accident or defign have been divided. Another mode of ef- feifling this, is through the intervention of adhefive plalters ; and this by furg'eons has been termed the falfe or dry future; in oppolition to the others pe,rformed by the needle, which are denominated the true or bloody future.—But as the confi- deration of this fubjecd, namely, the ufe of adhefive plallers in wounds, will be more properly introduced in a fubfequenc partOf Suturest Seel. IL 2?9 part of this work, we fhall not in this place enter upon its difeuffion. S E C T I O N ir. Of the Interrupted Suture* \ IN deep wounds, when a reunion of the divided parts is intended, this is the fu- ture to which we generally have recourfe j but from what will be afterwards more fully explained when treating of wounds, it does not feem to be fo well adapted to this purpofe as the twilled future. When it is determined, however, to make trial of the interrupted future, the following is the eafieft mode of doing it. In every wound where futures are found necelfary for the retention of parts, it has commonly been confidered as good prac- tice, to carry the needle and ligature to the bottom of the fore, fo as to give as little room as polTible for matter collecfling un- derneath ; and the ufual mode of effe6l- ing this, is by introducing the needle from B 3 without2d Of Sutures, Chap. I. without inwards, and again from the bot- tom of the wound to the fame diftance on the oppoQte fide. But this future, it may be remarked, is much more neatly, and at the fame time more eahly performed, by palling both ends of the thread from with- in outwards ; which is readily done by ufing two needles upon each thread, in- ftead of one. A needle being put upon each end of the fame thread, and each needle being inferred at the bottom of the fore, and puflied outwardly fo as to pafs out at a proper diftance from the edge of the wound, the needles are then to be taken off, and the threads allowed to remain till all the ligatures are palled which the ex- tent of fore feems to require. The number of ligatures necelTary for any wound, muft in a great meafure de- pend upon the extent of divided parts. By authors in general it has been laid down as an eftablilhed rule, that one future is fully fufticient for every inch of wound. It will frequently indeed happen, that this number is found fufticient; but infome in- ftances.Se<fl. II. Of^ Sutures. 21 fiances, particularly where mufcular parts are deeply cut tranfverfely, and where con- fequently a great degree of retracflion oc- curs, a greater number of flitches are ne- ceflary: Whenever a number of angles, too, occurs in a wound, more ligatures are re- quired than in a ftraight wound of the fame extent; for, at every angle, however inconfiderable it may be, there ought to be a future. In pafTing the ligatures, great care is neceffary to pierce the fkin at a fufficient diflance from the edge of the wound; for, if they do not comprehend a thicknefs of parts in fome meafure proportioned to the depth of the wound, and to the extent of retradion which may be expeded, they will very readily cut through the parts entirely. ■=—By fome authors we are direded to enter the ligatures, at a diflance from the edges of the fore nearly equal to the depth of the wound. This rule, however, will by no means be found to anfwer in pradice. Thus, in a very deep wound, for inflance of about three inches, no neceffity can oc- B 3 cur2 £ Of Sutures, Chap. I, cur for carrying the ligatures three inches from the edges of the fore ; and again, in very fuperficial cuts, itfometimes happens, that the ligature ought to be paffed out at a diftance from the edges of the wound greater than its depth. It ought not, in almoft any cafe, to be lefs than half an inch from the edge of the fore; and it will feldom happen, even in the largeft wounds, that an inch is not found to be a fuIEcient diflance. It will be readily underftood, that the flrength of the ligature and lize of the needle ought always to be proportioned to the depth of the fore and retradlion of parts. The feveral fizes of needles repre- fented in Plate I. are fuch as have been found neceffary in pradlice; and the li- gatures to be ufed along with them ought to be fuch as nearly, though not entirely, to fill the eyes of the different needles. In order to make the ligatures pafs more eafily, to render them more durable, and at the fame time to make them more fufceptible of a flattened form, which doesriate T.' ■ 'if )Of ^uliires. 23 Sea. II. does not fo readily cut through the con- tained parts as a round one, they ougbc all to be well covered with fine bees- wax. As foon as the threads are all pafTed, the lips of the wound ought to be prefTed to- gether and fupported by an afliftant till all the ligatures are firmly tied; beginning either in the middle of the wound, or at one end, as the operator inclines. In ty- ing the knots, it is ufual to pafs the ends of the threads twice through the firft noofe, in order to prevent their yielding ; and when this is done, it is alleged by fome that there is no neceflity for more than one knot upon each ligature; but as two knots are very eafily made, and as every chance of their yielding is thereby effec- tually prevented, this precaution ought never to be omitted. It is a practice with fome furgeons to infert a piece of lint be- tween the firft and fecond knots, or be- tween the firft knot and the fltin below, in order to fave the parts underneath from the preffure of the knots; but as in reality all B 4 fuch24 Of Sutures, Chap. I, fuch means of protedlion afford no advan- tage of importance, and as they prevent the knots from being made with exadf nefs, they ought therefore to be laid entirely afide. By fome writers on this fubjedl, we are defired not to bring the ■knots of ligatures immediately upon the edges obthe wound, but rather to carry them to one fide, over upon the found teguments i but whoever has tried both methods, will at once be fen- fible, that this is by no means an improve- ment j for in no way can both fides of the fore be equally fupported, but by the knots being paffed immediately above the lips of the divided parts. SECTION III. Of the filled Suture. A S the quilled future is flill employed by fome practitioners, it is here thonght neceffary to defcribe the mode of perform- ing it. In deep wounds attended with much re- traction, it is always a neceffary precau- tion,Se(5l. III. '25 Of Sutures^ tion, to afEft the operation of the liga- tures, by means of bandages fo applied as 'to afford as much fupport as poffible to the divided parts ; But, even with every affift- ance of this nature, it now and then hap^ pens, that the divided parts cannot be kept together, retraclion occurs to a greater or ieffer degree, and the ligatures of courfe cut afunder the foft parts they were at firft made to furround. With a view to prevent this receding of the teguments and other parts, it was long ago propofed to add to the interrupted fu- ture what was fuppofed would afford an additional fupport; viz. quills, or pieces of plafter rolled up into the form of quills, one of which being placed on each fide of the wound, the doubling of the ligature is made to include the one, and the knot to prefs dire(5lly upon the other, inflead of being made immediately on the edges of the fore as was diredted for interrupted fu- tures. It is at once evident, however, that the ligatures muft here make the fame degree ofChap. I. Of Sutures, of prefTiire on the parts through which they pafs, as they do in the interrupted future; and this being the cafe, it is equal- ly obvious, that the interpofition of thefe fubftances cannot be of any ufe. This fu- ture is accordingly now very rarely, prac- tifed, and it is probable that it will be loon laid entirely afide. SECTION IV. Of the Glo’ver's Suture, future receives its name from be- ing that which the glovers commonly ufe. As it is exceedingly fimple, and very univerfally known, it does not here require a particular defcription : We lhall there- fore juft ftiortly obferve, that it confifts in a feries of ftitches all connedled with one another, and continued in an oblique Ipiral direction along the courfe of the divided parts intended to be kept toge- ther. This future has hitherto been univer- fally employed for reuniting fuch parts of'ly tSea. V. Of Sutures, the inteHines as have been divided by wounds : bur, when treating of accidents of this kind, I fhall endeavour to {how, that the fame end may be more perfeaiy attained, and probably with lefs danger, by means of the interrupted future ; fo that as this future has almofi: never been applied to any other purpofe, it will like- wife in all probability foon fall into dif- ufe. SECTION V, Of the Twijled Suture. gY the term twifted future is meant, that fpecies of ligature, by which parts, either naturally or artificially feparated, are united together, by means of flrong threads properly twifted round pins or needles puflied through the edges of the divided parts. This future is commonly employed for the purpofe of uniting the parts in cafes of hare-lip; and this indeed is almoft the only ufe to which it has been hitherto applied: ButOf Sutures, 2S Chap. I. But we may here remark, that it may with great advantage be put in pradlice in a va- riety of other cafes, particularly in all artifi- cial or accidental divifions either of the lips or cheeks ; and, in every wound in other parts that does not run deep and in which futures are necelTary, this future is prefer- able to the interrupted or any other. In very deep wounds, for inftance in all wounds extending to a greater depth than an inch and a half, the interrupted future is the only one that is admiflible ; for, in all fuch deep cuts, the pins necefiary in the twifted future cannot with propriety be employed, as they cannot be introduced to fuch a depth, and afterwards fo twifted with ligatures as to reunite the divided parts, without great pain to the patient. In fuch wounds, therefore, we muft of ne- ceflity have recourfe to the interrupted fu- ture. But it may be here remarked, that wounds of this depth requiring the aid of futures, are very rarely met with: fo that, in by much the greateft proportion of wounds where futures are advifable, the twiftedSea. V. Of Sutures, 29 twifted future will be found praaicable; and whenever it is fo, it ought certainly to be preferred to every other, as being obvioufly better calculated, even than the interrupted future, for the retention of di- vided parts. The pins made ufe of for twilling the threads upon, ought to be made of a flat form, fo as not to cut the parts through which they pafs, fo readily as the ligatures employed in the interrupted future: And thus one great objeaion to the latter is very efFeaually obviated; for, every praaitioner mufl be fenfible of this being the greatefl inconvenience attending the interrupted future, that when mufcular parts are divided, fo as to produce mucli retraaion, the ligatures employed for re- taining them, almoll conllantly cut them through before a reunion is accomplifhed ; whereas, the llatnefs of the pins ufed in the twilled future, and upon which, it may be remarked, the whole prelTure produced by the ligatures is made to rell, proves in ge- neral a very effeaual preventative againll this occurrence. TheOf Sutures. Chap'. 1. The pins ufed in this operation, have commonly been made of diver ; and, in order to make them pafs with greater eafe, fteel points have been added to them. As gold pins, however, are capable of recei- ving a fuilicient degree of fliarpnefs, which renders the intervention of fteel points quite unnecelTary; and as gold is more cleanly than diver, from its not acquiring do readily that kind of cruft which immer- don in iluids is apt to produce upon the other; pins of this metal are therefore pre-* ferable. The form and dze of pins reprefented in Plate II. are what experience has fhown to be the moft ufeful for every ordinary purpofe; but, for particular ufes, the dze muft no doubt be fubjedl to varia- tions. The manner of performing this opera- tion is as follows : The divided parts in- tended to be reunited, muft by the hands of an adiftant be brought nearly into con- ta6l; leaving juft as much fpace between the edges of the fore, as to allow the fur- I geoaSea. V. Of Sutures. 3^ geon to fee that the pins are carried to a proper depth. This being done, one of the pins inuft be introduced through both fides of the wound, by entering it on one fide externally, pufhing it forwards and inwards to within a little of the bottom of the wound, and afterwards carrying it outwardly through the oppofite fide, to the fame diftance from the edge of the fore that it was made to enter at on the other. The difiance at which the needle ought to enter from the edge of the fore, mufi be determined by the depth of the wound, and by the degree of retraaion produced in the divided parts. In general, however, it is a proper rule in deep wounds, to carry the pins to a difiance from the edges of the fore, nearly the fame with the depth to which they penetrate : And it may be alfo remarked, that, whatever the deepnefs of the wound may be, the pins ought to pals within a very little of its bottom ; other- wife the parts which lie deep will run a rilk of not being united, a circumfiance which3-2 Of Sutured, Chap. li •which will frequently give rife to trouble- ' Ibme colle6lions of matter. In paffing the pins through the different fides of the wound, if the fkin and other ■ teguments are not more firm than ordi- nary, it may commonly be done by the fingers alone, and particularly if the pins are made with fmall heads or knobs for the fingers to prefs upon; but when firm- nefs of parts and other circumftances ren- der the entrance of the pins difficult, the inflrument termed Porteaiguille very ef- fe<5lually removes this inconvenience.—In Plate II. is reprefented the mofl convenient i form of this inflrument that has yet been invented. The firft pin being paffed in this man- ner very near to one end of the fore^ and the parts being flill fupported by an affiftant, the furgeon, by means of a firm ^ waxed ligature paffed three or four times ; round and acrofs the pin^ fo as nearly to defcribe the figure of 8, is to draw the parts through which it has paffed into dofe contadl; and the thread being now I fecured Iriafe IT. A - • r /.\ . V {*tf V- ■H: I ■f. • ' ■ r I ' . . /33 of Sutures» Sea. V. now fecured with a loofe knot, another pin muft be introduced in the fame manner ac a proper diftance from the former; and the thread with which the other was fixed, being loofed, and in the fame man- ner carried round this pin, others muft be introduced at proper diflances along the whole courfe of the wound, and the fafne ligature ought to be of a fufEcient length for fecuring the whole. The number of pins to be ufed, mufl be determined entirely by the extent of the wound. Whenever this future, however, is pra(5tifed, v/hether the wound be large or of very fmall extent, a pin ought to be introduced very near to each end of it, otherwife the extremities of the fore are apt to feparate fo as not to be afterwards eafily reunited. In large wounds, if the pins be introduced at the diftance of three quarters of an inch from one another, ic will, in general be found fufticient j but, in. cuts of fmaller extent, a greater number of pins become neceftary in proportion to the dimenfions of the fores. VoL. I. G Thus,Chap. I. 34 Of Sutures, Thus, in a wound of an inch and half in length, three pins are abfolutely requi- fite; one near to each end, and another in the middle of tlie fore: Whereas, five pins will always be found fully fufficient for a wound of three inches and a half in extent, allowing one to be within a quarter of an inch of each extremity of the wound, and the others to be placed along the courfe of the fore at the diftance of three quarters of an inch from one another. The pins being all introduced and fe- cured in the manner direc^led, nothing remains to be done, but to apply a piece of lint wet with mucilage, all along the courfe of the wound, with a view to ex- clude the external air as effedlually as poffible. In order to prevent the ends of the pins from preffmg upon and hurting the flcin below, it is ufual to apply a fmall bolder of linen or charpie under each of them; but as this always does mifchief, by tend- ing to prefs upon the pins, fo as to force them to a6l upon the foft parts thro’ which theyOf Sutures, 35 Sea. V. they have palTed, every thing of this kind ought to be omitted. When, however, the patient happens to complain of being hurt by the ends of the pins, this may be eafily prevented, by introducing between them and the fkin pieces of thin linen fpread with any adhefive plafter. In order to give every chance of fuccefs to this operation, it has been commonly advifed, immediately after the pins are fe- cured, to apply the uniting bandage over the whole, fo as to afford as much fupport as poflible to the contiguous parts. The lead refleaion, however, renders it evident, that every degree of preffure made in this manner mufl do mifchief; for, the bandage being made to reft immediately upon the pins, a confiderable degree of pain and confequent inflammation muft of courfe be produced by it: And in facfl this is fo much the cafe, that, in every inftance in which I have feen this bandage applied, it either did harm, by exciting inflammation in confequence of too much preffure upon the pins; or, if that effecft was not pro- C 2 duced,Of Sutures» Chap, r. 3^ duced, no advantage was received from it, from the bandage not being applied with fuch tightnefs as to afford any fupport whatever to the parts below. The next point to be determined, is, the time the pins fliould be allowed to re- j main. When they remain long, they gene- i rally do harm, by the unneceffary irritation \ and confequent retraflion of parts with J which they are always attended; and again, if they are not continued for a fufEcient h , gth of time, that degree of adhefion is not produced between the divided parts that is neceffary for their future retention, fo that the effedl of the operation comes to be in a great meafure, if not entirely, ioft. : In wounds of no great depth, for in- flance of about three quarters of an inch, a fufEcient degree of adhefion always takes place in the fpace of five days ; and fix, or at mofl feven days, will generally be found. j fufEcient for wounds of the greateft depth. | But with refpedl to this circumftance, it ; mufl always be under flood, that the pa- tien TsV. 37 « Of Sutures„ tient’s ftate of health will have a coniider- able influence on the time neceflary for producing adhefion between divided parts/ In fpecifying the time required for this purpofe, the operation is fuppofed to have been done in a found and healthy ftate of the conftitution. When the patient la- bours under any diforder w'hich affedts the general fyftem, by cutaneous eruptions or otherwife, it is impoffibie to afcertain this circumftance with preciflon: In fuch cafes we muft be 'determined by the na- ture and ftate of the difeafe prefent at the time. As foon as the pins are withdrawn, the uniting bandage may be applied with great advantage in order to fef ve as a fup- port to the parts newly united; but, as flips of leather fpread with ordinary glue, when applied to each fide of the cicatrix, may, by means of ligatures properly con- nedted with them, be made to anfwer this purpofe in a more efiedlual manner, this mode of fupporting the parts ought of courfe to be preferred. G 3 AsChap. I. Of Sutures, 3^ As the twifled future when properly performed is a very neat operation, as its confequences are in general of importance, and as it may with much advantage be made to fuperfede the ufe of almoft every other future, a few inftances only excepted, I have therefore thought it proper to con- fider it wdth more attention than has hi- therto been commonly bellowed upon it. C H A P. II. Of the Ligature of Arteries, and other means employed hy art for putting a fop to Hemorrhagies. F every fpecies of wound, whether ac- cidentally produced, or effedled by the hands of a furgeon, the firll circumftance to be attended to, is the degree of hemor- rhagy that takes place. In all fuch occur- rences, the blood is difcharged, either from oneChap. II. Of Arteries^ ^c. 39 one or more large arteries; or,is produced by a general oozing from the fmailer vef- fels over the furface of the fore: To the former of thefe caufes we fhall firft attend, and fhall afterwards proceed to the con- fideration of the latter, A furgeon being called to a perfon iofing much blood from the divifion of any of the larger veffels, the firft flep to be taken, is, by means of flrong compreflion, to effedt a temporary ftoppage of the difcharge, till by the application of ligatures a more ef~ fedtual remedy is obtained. In the head, as well as in the trunk of the body, the eafieft method of applying preffure of this kind, is, by means of dofiiis of lint or of foft linen, held firmly upon the mouths of the bleeding veffels, either by the hands of an afliflant, or by the ufe of a proper bandage: Or, when preffure can be effedlu- ally applied to the fuperior part of the ar- tery, it anfwers better; as it not only fe~ cures the veffel equally well, but admits of the neceffary ligature being applied with greater freedom. C 4 When,Of the Ligatiire Chap. II, 40 When, again, accidents of this nature occur in any of the extremities, and where prefTure can be made with eafe on the fupe- rior parts of arteries, for fuch cafes we are in pofTeflion of a remedy, which, when fldlfully applied, never fails to put an im- mediate flop to all farther lofs of blood. What is here meant, is, the Tourniquet. Till the invention of this inftrument, which was not known before the laft cen- tury, Surgery remained extremely defedive indeed. No operation of importance could be undertaken on any of the extremities but with great hazard to the patient; and the effe(fl:s of large wounds muft frequently have proved mortal, from the want of this affiftance, which otherwife might not have been in any degree hazardous. As the invention of the tourniquet is claimed by different perfons, and even by different nations, we fhall not here pretend to fay from whence it originally came: but whoever had the merit of it, the firft inftru- ment of this kind with which the world was made acquainted, was exceedingly fimple;Chap. II. of Arteries^ fimplc; fo much fo, indeed, that it now appears very furprifing that the difcovery' fliould have been left for fuch a late pe- riod. A fmall culhion being placed upon the courfe of the principal artery of a limb, a circular rope or bandage was made to pafs twice round it; and a fmall wooden handle being then introduced between one of the folds of the bandage, for the purpofe of twilling it, the cufhion by thefe means was prelTed with fo much force upon the artery, as to put an effedlual flop to the courfe of the blood through the under part of the limb. Mr Petit, an eminent furgeon of Paris, was the firft who propofed a confiderable improvement on this inflrument, by con- nedling the circular bandage with a fcrew, which was fo contrived as to produce the prefTure chiefly on the principal arteries, without materially affec^ling the reft of the limb. It had this advantage over the other inftrument, that the operator himfelf could pianage it, without being under the necef-4^ Of. the Ligature Chap. II. fity of employing an alTiftant; but it was liable to one great inconvenience from the very circumftance which by the inven- tor was confidered as an improvement. This inftrument of Mr Petit being made to adl upon the principal arteries only, the fmaller veflels communicating with thefe, by not being properly compreffed, dif- charge blood freely from the inftant they are cut; and as this proves a very trouble- fome circumftance in the courfe of opera- tions, different improvements have of lace been made upon it. The pattern in Plate III. is the refult of all thefe. By means of this inftrument in its now improved ftate, the blood in any limb is very eafily and effecftually commanded; and as it grafps the whole member equally, all the collateral branches as well as the prin- cipal arteries are equally compreffed by it. It has this material advantage, too, over every other inftrument of this kind, that, when properly applied, a fingle turn, or even half a turn of the ferew, is fufficient for producing either a flow of blood, or forPlafcHlLChap. II. of Arteries^ <^>c, 43 for putting a total flop to it.—The man- ner of ufing it is this. Let a culliion of three inches in length by one inch and half in diameter, be pre- pared of a linen roller, and be made tole- rably firm, but yet not fo hard as to ren- der the prefTure produced by it very pain- ful : This being placed upon the courfe of the principal artery of the limb, is to be firmly fecured in that^fituation by one or two turns of a circular roller, of the fame breadth with the cufhion itfelf. The inflrument A, with the firap con- nected with it, being now placed upon the limb, with the handle of the fcrew B on the fide of the member oppofice to the cufhion upon the artery, the fhrap G is to be carried round the limb direCtly over the cufhion, and to be firmly connected on the other fide to the buckle D. In thus connec- ting the ftrap and buckle together, parti- cular attention is necefiary in doing it with great firmnefs, fo that the fcrew may after- wards operate with as much advantage as poffible, in producing a fufficient degree of prefTure.44 Of the Ligature Chap. II. prefTure. When proper attention is paid to this circumftance, a fingle turn of the fcrew, as we have faid, proves fufficient for putting an entire flop to the circulation of blood in the limb : but when the (Irap has not at firft been made very tight, fe- veral turns of the fcrew become necef- fary; an occurrence which may be always eafily prevented, and which, when not at^ tended to, proves often very embarraffing in the courfe of an operation. Whenever it is determined, therefore, that any farther lofs of blood from a divi- ded artery is to be prevented, prelTure on the fuperior part of the veffel ought to be immediately applied by the hands of an affiftant, or a proper bandage, when the cut is on the head or trunk of the body ; and by means of the tourniquet, when any of the extremities are wounded. The patient being in this manner fecured from immediate danger, the pradlitioner muft now proceed to the eafieft and moft effectual mode of preventing a return of hemorrhagyChap. II. tf Arteries^ Esfr. 4j 1 ance hemorrhagy on the removal of the tourni- quet. The ancients, as we have feen,"were ig- norant of the ufe and application of the tourniquet, and they were equally deficient in the employment of means for giving a permanent fecurity againft the flow of blood from divided veflels: It will there- fore readily occur to every modern prac- titioner, that in this imperfedl ftate of Chirurgical knowledge, when any capital operations were attempted, they muft have run a much greater riik of doing mifchief, than of procuring any advantage to their patients. To the fmaller velTels they ap- plied doflils of linen covered with aftrin- gent powders ; and for the larger arteries, fearing with hot irons was their only re- fource. Of this laft remedy, however, although it commands a temporary ftoppage of the blood in every cafe of hemorrhagy, the effeds are by no means to be depended on; for, in general, the pulfation of the larger arteries very fbon overcomes all the reilft-46 Of the Ligatured Chap. II. ance produced by the application of the cautery. In ancient times, however, when this was the moft elFe(5tual remedy with which the world was acquainted, pradlitioners were under theneceflity of having recourfc to it; and, at that period, it is not furpri- ling to find them exercifing their genius in inventing a variety of ftyptic applications: But fince furgery became enriched with that material improvement of fecuring the larger arteries by means of ligatures, a practice eafily effe<5led, and with very little pain to the patient, it is furprifing to find that remedies of this kind are ftill fearched after. If the ufe of ligatures were in itfelf attended with much difficulty, if by experi- ence it had been found to be produdlive of many bad confequences, or, if it had been frequently known to fail in anfwering as a full fecurity againft the hemorrhagies of the larger arteries ; in any of thefe events, it ought to be the bufinefs of prad.itioners to endeavour to procure a more effeclual remedy. But, as the ligature of arteries is very47 Chap. II. of Arteries, very fimple in its nature; as the pain ari- fing from it is trifling; as few inftances occur of any thing bad being produced by it; and efpecially, as, when properly per- formed, it never fails of proving a fure preventative againft all lofs of blood from the larger arteries ; there can be no good reafon for anxioufly feeking after other re- medies. Agaric and other fungous fubfiances have been much extolled for their fly ptic powers; and chalybeate folutions, as well as all the variety of mineral acids, have in different forms been held forth to the public as ef- fecSlual remedies of this nature ; not only as noflrums by thofe of lefs liberal prin- ciples, but,vrhat is more furprifing, in fome inftances by pradlitioners of chara(fter. With the former clafs of men this hap- pens as a common occurrence in the courfe of their profeflion, and is therefore to be expe(5led; but, a perfeverance in queft of any new remedy of this kind on the part of Surgeons of reputation, who are already well acquainted with the effe(5ls of liga- 3 tures4^ Of the Ligature Chap. tures in cafes of hemorrhagy, and who alfo know that the pradlice is feldom at- tended with bad confequences, muft pro- ceed from a degree of nicety and refine- ment, which may create much trouble to themfelves, and which in all probability can never be producflive of any pracflical advantage. We fhall therefore venture to lay it down as an eftabliflied maxiih in furgery,That in every cafe of hemorrhagy from any of the larger arteries, no ftyptic application what- ever ought to be trufted to, the ligature being the only remedy to be depended on. We now proceed therefore to the confidera^ tion of the eafieft and moft efiPedlual mode of carrying this application into execution. Various methods have been invented for fecuring arteries by means of ligatures. The pradlice now in ordinary ule, is, by means of a curved needle, to pafs a ligature of fufficient ftrength round the mouth of the bleeding vefiel, including a quarter of an inch all round of the contiguous parts* and * Sharp’s Surgery—On Amputation.49 C!iiap. it. bjArteries^ ^c, ilnd afterwards to form a knot of a proper tightnefs upon the vefTel and other parts comprehended in the nbofe. One great objedlion, however,to this me- thod, is, that the nerves accompanying the; blood-ve{Tel|S, together with a confiderable portion of the mufcular fubftance through •which they pafs, muft always be furround- ed with every ligature formed in this man- ner. From this circumftance much more pain is produced than is neceffary, by the nerves and other parts being at the fame time comprelTed with the arteries • and^ on fome occafions, the fame caufe has evi- dently given fife to violent convulfive af- fedtions, not only of the part chiefly aflTedl- ed, but of the whole fyftem. Spafmodic twitches are frequently found to occur after the amputation of limbs, and are often the fource of much diftrefs. In fome inftances they are no doubt to be confidered as the effedl of other caufes; but in various cafes it has happened, that demonflrative proof has been obtained of their arifing from the ligatures of arteries VoL. I. D applie45^ Of the Ligature Chap. II. applied in an improper manner. When fuch convulfive afFe6tions occur after am- putations, and the ufual means of pre- venting them are found to fail, effedlual relief may be frequently obtained by de- ftroying the ligatures altogether, fo as to remove the comprefTion upon the nerves; care being taken at the fame time to re- new the ligatures upon the arteries imme- diately, without comprehending any of the contiguous parts. Thus, it is not to the fimple ligature of vefTels, but to the improper manner in which the operation is performed, that is, the including of nerves and other parts, inftead of tying the arteries alone, that the bad fymptoms occurring in fuch cafes are to be attributed. Pra(fiitioners have commonly been afraid of lying up blood-velfels by themfelves without the intervention of fome of the furrounding parts, on this fuppolition, that the coats of arteries are not of fufficienc hrmnefs to .bear that degree of compref- fion,Chap. II. of Arteries^ Isc, 55 hon necefTary for the prevention of hemor- rhagy. This, however, originates from an idea that the coats of arteries are not fo ftrong as they really are; and that a great de- gree of force is necefTary for comprefling their fides into clofe contac5l with one ano- ther. But it is now well known, that even very fmall arteries are pofTeffed of much firmnefs j and it is alfo certain, that even in the largeft arteries of the arm or thigh, a very flight degree of comprefTion is fully fufEcient, not only for reftraining hemor- rhagy, but for fecuring the ligature on the very fpot to which it is firft applied : And in fmall vefTels the force necefTary for this purpofe is trifling indeed; being far lefs than is commonly applied. Although the circumftance we are nov^r infilling upon may notiat firfl fight feem to be of much importance, yet in fadl it, merits very particular attention. Even of itfelf it is a matter of no fmall confe- quence, but it is the more material when D 2 we52 Of the Ligature Chap. IL we confider it as connected in many in- fiances with circumftances on which the life of a patient may in a great meafure depend ; and we know well too, that fuc- cefs in furgical operations depends more on a minute attention to every circum- flance relating to them, than on particular dexterity in any one part of them. It has alfo been obje<5led to this mode of fecuring blood-veffels by themfelves, that the ligatures, although they fhould not cut the arteries through, yet that they are more apt to flip than when fome of the furrounding parts are comprehended along with them; and, in fome inftances, it is faid that arteries retradl fo far, that they cannot in any other way be laid hold of, than by means of the crooked needle in the ordinary method. Long and repeated experience, however, of a few individuals, in regard to this mode of taking up arteries by themfelves, has put the fadl beyond a doubt, that it is as fecure as any other yet invented*.— Fatal * See an effay upon this fubjeft, by the ingenious Mr Aitken, furgeon in Warrington.Chap. II. of Arteries^ ’iAc. 53 Fatal hemorrhagies after capital opera- tions, either from inattention, or fome other caufe, do now and then indeed hap- pen in the hands of the molt able prafti- tioners ; but occurrences of this nature have as frequently happened when the curved needle was employed, as when the blood-velTels were fecured by themfelves without any of the contiguous parts being included. From the refult of my own experience, indeed, I fhould be induced even from this confideration, to draw a conclufion in favour of the method we have been en- deavouring to recommend. For, in the courfe of praflice, both among hofpital pa- tients and in private, I have known different deaths occur from the bleeding of flumps after the amputation of members: Whether this proceeded from the ligatures having flipped from fome of the arteries; or from this circumftance, that fome of the veffels which did not appear during the operation, had been of courfe paffed over without be- ing obferved and had afterwards burft our, D 3 I54 Of the Ligature Chap. II, I fliall not pretend to determine; but in all of thefe, the crooked needle only had been ufed during the operation; and it has fo hap- pened, that I never met with a fingle in- fiance of a fimilar occurrence where the arteries were fecured by themfelves by means of the tenaculum, an inftrument to be afterv^rards taken notice of. In a few inftances it may happen, that a bleeding vefTel, from lying at the bottom of a deep wound, cannot be laid hold of in any other manner than by the curved needle being made to pafs round it. Such occurrences, however, are exceedingly rare; infomuch that I have feldoin known an inftance in which hemorrhagy could not be as elfedlually reftrained by the mode now to be pointed out, as by the ufe of the crooked needle. In all operations whatever, to fave unne- celTary pain ought to be a very capital ob- jedl. In every bufinefs of this kind, the obje6l in view ought no doubt to be at- tained in the moft complete manner; but that mode of operation, which is as com-Chap. II. cf Arteries^ ^c. 55 plete as any other, at the fame time that it is the leaft painful to the patient, is un- doubtedly in every inflance to be pre- ferred. Now, with refpedl to the point in queftion, as we have already clearly fhown, that arteries may be tied with as much fafety in every refpedl, by themfelves, as when connecfled with any of the neigh- bouring parts, the difference of pain pro- duced by the two modes of operating, ought at once to determine in favour of the former. When any of the contiguous parts, par- ticularly when the nerves which generally accompany the blood-veffels, are included in the fame ligature with an artery, which when the curved needle is employed is a circumflance fcarcely to be avoided, every pracftitloner knows that tying the knot in this manner is frequently complained of by the patient in very fevere terms. I have on many occafions known patients who have borne the amputation of limbs, and of cancerous breafts, without flirink- ing, complain bitterly of the fevere pain D 4 pro-56 Of the Ligature Chap. II. produced by the method of fecuring arte-? ries with the -crooked needle. And on the contrary, ^he pain attending the method now propofed, is fo trifling, that, when properly done, even the moll timid patients very feldqm complain of it. For fome time after I firft began to nfe the tenaculum, curioflty induced me, on different occafions, to put the matter - under confideration to the tefl: of experi- ment : And to render the trial as fair and decifive as poflible, it_ was always made upon the fame fubjed:, under the fame operation. Different veffels were fecured in the ordinary manner by the crooked needle; whilfl others were laid hold of by the tenaculum : But fo great was the dif- ference in point of pain, that the one was uniformly allowed m give very little uneafinefs ; whereas it frequently hap- pened, that the other was complained of as the moft painful part of the whole ope- ration. Among other advantages which the ty- ing of arteries by means of the tenaculu^i has57 Chap. II. of Arteries^ has over the old mode of operating, there is ftlll one we have not yet taken notice of. It often happens after amputations, and other operations where the larger arteries have been tied, that the ligatures do not come eahly away, from being made to run. fo deep as with the curved needle is com- monly necelTary. In fome inftances much pain and trouble has occurred from this circumftance, the ligature remaining quite immoveable for a great many weeks; And after all, I have feen it necelTary for the furgeon, to put the patient to a great deal of pain, by being obliged to cut out the threads with a fcalpel. But when the te- naculum is ufed, every rifk of this kind is avoided, from the ligatures generally dropping of their own accord, in the the courfe of the third or fourth drelTing of the fore. From what has been faid, therefore, we Ihall confider it as a prad;ice that ought to be eftablifhed, that in forming the ligature of arteries, the nerves and other contiguous parts fhould be carefully avoided. ForOf the Ligature Chap. II, For the purpofe of effeding this with eafe and fafety, various kinds of the inftru- ment termed a forceps have been invented; with thefe, the arteries of a fore are laid hold of and pulled out, fo as to admit of the application of ligatures. For the larger blood-veffels, the forceps has been found to anfwer conveniently enough; but, in the fmaller arteries, they are by no means fo fit for the purpofe as the inftrument or hook I have been recom- mending, termed a tenaculum, and repre- fented in Plate I. And as a hook of this form anfwers equally <well in the larger ar- teries likewife, the ufe of the forceps may therefore be laid entirely afide. The man- ner of ufing the tenaculum is this. In order to deted the arteries to be tied, the tourniquet with which they are fecured, mud be flackened a little by a turn or two of the fcrew; and the moment the largeft artery of the fore is difcovered, the furgeon fixes his eye upon it, and im- mediately reftrains the blood again by means of the tourniquet. An affiftant now'59 Chap. II. of Arteries, Itfc: now forms a noofe on the ligature to be made ufe of; and this noofe being placed immediately over the end of the artery, fo as to include it with certainty, the ope- rator then pufhes the fliarp point of the tenaculum through the fides of the veffel, and at the fame time pulls fo much of it out, over the furface of the furrounding parts, as he thinks is fuUicient to be in- cluded in the knot which the affiftant is now to make. In forming this ligature, the furgeon’s knot, as it is termed, which conhfts in palling the thread twice through the firft noofe is certainly preferable to every other, from its being lefs liable to yield or flip. And as fome additional fe- curity is obtained by forming a fecond knot above the firft, this precaution ought never to be omitted. It is eafily done; and on fecurity in this point, the patient’s life may in a great meafure depend. The degree of ftrength of the ligature muft always be proportioned to the fize of the veffels; but this is a circumftance to be 8,t all times determined by the judgment of6c Of the Ligature Chap. II. of the pradlltioner, as muft alfo the force to be employed in forming the knots. To what v/as already faid upon this point I fliall juft add, that a very fmall force is fully fufficient for fecuring even the largeft ar- teries ; and that, after fuch a force has been applied as evidently reftrains the far- ther lofs of blood, a very trifling additional compreftioii is all that is neceflary. The principal artery being in this man- fier fecured, all the veftels of the part muft one after another be taken up in the fame manner, by firft loofening the tourniquet in order to difcover them, and afterwards applying the ligature to each in the man- ner diredled. It often happens, however, that the lofs of blood the patient has fuftained; a ten- dency to deliquium which may take place for the time; the fear belabours under; and the degree of cold to which the fore is ex- pofed, have all together fuch an effe(5l upon the fmaller arteries, as to prevent them for the time from difcharging their contents; and as arteries left in fuch a ftate without beingDI Chap. II. of Arteries, being fecured, generally burft out on the removal of thefe caufes, a circumftance which always occalions much trouble to the pradlitioner, as well as a great deal of pain and rilk to the patient, every fur- geon ought to pay the niceft attention to this point. The tourniquet fhould be made perfedl- ly loofe; any coagulated blood on the fur- face of the fore ought to be carefully waftied off with a fpunge and warm wa- ter; and the patient, if faintilh, ought to get a glafs of wine, or fome other cordial; and after all, the furgeon ought to exa- mine, with the mofl minute attention, the ufual courfe which the velTels of the part are known to take. This being done, every artery of the part, even the fmalleft that can be diflin- guifhed, ought to be fecured with a liga- ture : For fuch velTels as appear exceeding- ly trifling while the part is yet expofed to the air, nay even the fmalleft branches of arteries that happen to be negledled, will be capable of difcharging very conflder- 'X ablei)2 Of the Ligature Chap. IL able quantities of blood after the patient becomes warm in bed, when the folids are thereby relaxed and the fluids ex- panded ; and, as little or no injury can ever be done by the proper application of ligatures to all the arteries that prefent themfelves, the greateft attention ought at all times to be paid to this circum- llance. I have infilled the more on this, from having frequently obferved much uneafi- nefs and diftrefs produced by a want of proper attention to this part of an opera- tion. When the principal arteries of a flump have been taken up, and a little blood'con- tinues to be difcliarged, but appears to come from a few fmali vefTels only, the furgeon, unlefs he is much accullomed to occurrences of this nature, is induced to think, that as they are very trifling to ap- pearance, fo he need not be at the trouble of tying them, as the neceflary compreflion of the bandages proper for the wound will in'all probability effedl a total floppage of s the,Chap. II. of Arteries^ ^c. 6^ the hemorrhagy. In a general oozing of a fmall quantity of blood from the whole furface of a fore, and when no particular velTel can be diftinguiflied, there is a ne- ceffity for trufting to this remedy; but, whenever an artery can be difcovered, of whatever fize it may be, it ought unque- ftionably to be fecured by a ligature. It very rarely happens that any inconvenience occurs from ligatures when properly ap- plied ; but many lives have been loft from a remilfnefs in this article. I have known different inftances of this, and the faihe muft have occurred to others. When, from the deepnefs of a wound, or from any other caufe, fome particular arte- ry cannot be properly fecured by the tena- culum; in this cafe we are under the necef- iity of employing the crooked needle, and the following is the mode of ufing it. The operator ought to be provided with needles of various fizes, and of different forms. The needles in ordinary ufe, are for many purpofes quite too much crooked; for, in general, they are more eafily ma- naged^4 Ligature , Chap. iL naged when their, curvatures are not fo confiderable. The fame kinds of needles that are found neceffary for the interrupted future, as re- prefented in Plate I. anfwer equally well for the ligature of arteries. The needles in common ufe are made triangular with three edges, one on each lide, and a third on the concave part of the needle. There is no real neceflityi however, for more than two : Indeed the needle enters more eafily with two. than with three edges; and as the third edge on the concave fide, renders them more liable to injure arteries and ether parts in the courfe of their introdueflion, this addition ought to be omitted. A needle of this fhape, armed with a li- gature of a fize proportioned to itfelf and to the vefifel to be taken up, is to be intro- duced at the diftance of a fixth or eighth part of an inch from the artery, and pulh-' ed to a depth fufficient for retaining.it, ai-. the fame time that it is carried fully one- half round the blood-velTel. It miift now beChap. It. of Arteries^ ^c. 6$ be drawn cut; and being again puflied. forv/ard till it has completely encircled the mouth of the artery, it is then to be pulled out, and a knot to be tied of a fuf- ficient firmnefs, as was already direcfled when the tenaculum is ufedi In this manner, either by the life of the crooked needle, or of the tenaculum* every hemorrhagy depending upon a di- vifion of one or more large arteries* may in general be very eafily reftrained; but it frequently happens, that confiderable quantities of blood are difeharged, not from any particular vefTel, but from all the fmall arteries over the furface of the fore. In wounds of great extent* particu- larly after the extirpation of cancerous breafts, and in other operations where extenfive fores are left* this fpecies of he- morrhagy often proves very-troublefome from being exceedingly difEcult to fup- prefs. Bleedings of this kind feem evidently to proceed from two very different and oppo- fite caufes ; a circumftance which, in the VoL. I* B treat‘d66 Of the Ligature Chap. II. treatment of them, is a matter requiring very particular attention. First, We now and then find efFufions of this nature occurring in ftrong robuft people, where they evidently proceed, either from too great a quantity of blood contain- ed in the veffels, or from an excefs of tone in the veflels themfelves; or, perhaps, from a combination of both thefe caufes. But, SECONDLY, Such cvacuatioiis undoubtedly happen mod frequently in conftitutions quite the reverfe of the former, viz. in fuch as are very relaxed and debilitated; either from a putrid difiblved ftate of the blood, or from a want of tone in the containing veflels, or in fome inftances from a con- currence of both. In conftitutions perfe6Ily healthy, when the fluids are not tainted with any degree of putrefcency, and the folids are pofiTefiTed of their natural tonic powers, on the oc- currence of wounds even of the moft ex- tenfive nature, as foon as the larger arte- ries are fecured, all the fmall veflels that have been divided, in confequence of that con-6; ■Chap. il. of Arteries^ ^c, contracftile power with which in a ftate of health they are endowed, and from the fti- ‘mulus of the external air to which they are now expofed, are diminiflied not only in their diameters, but alfo in their length; in confeqlience of which, they recede con- liderably within the furface of the fur- rounding parts. This caufe of itfelf would probably in the greateft number of inftances prove fufhcient for reftraining all lofs of blood from the fmaller arteries; but, in the found ftate of conftitution of which we have nov^ been fpeaking, another very powerful agent is provided by nature for producing the fame effecft. From the extremities of the divided veffels which at firft difcharged red blood only, there now, in their con- traded ftate, oozes out a more thin^ though vifcid fluid, containing a Certain propor- tion of the coagulable parts of the blood; and this being equally diftributed over the furface of *the wound, by its balfamic ag- glutinating powers, has undoubtedly a very E 2 €on^68 Of the Ligature Chap. II. Confiderable influence in reflraining all fuch hemorrhagies. In conftitutions altogether healthy, where neither of the ftates of difeafe we have al- luded to preponderates over the other, we find, that, as foon as the larger arteries of wounds are fecured, nature, in the manner already defcribed, generally puts a flop to all farther difcharge. So that, whenever the contrary happens, by a tedious oozing continuing from the furface of the fore, we ought then to pay particular attention to the habit of body with which it is con- nected. When fuch an occurrence happens in ^ patient, young and vigorous, and where the tone of the mufcular fibres is evidently great, the mofl effectual means of putting ^ flop to the difcharge, is to relax the vaf* cular fyflem, either by opening a vein in foine other part, or, what gives flill mor^ immediate relief, by untying the ligature on one of the principal arteries of the_part, Ib as to allow it to bleed freely: Thofe vio- lent fpafmodic twiccjhings too, fo frequent after6g Chap. II. of Arteries^ after operations on any of the extremities, when they do not depend on a nerve be- ing included in the ligature with the ar- tery, are in this manner more effedlually relieved than by any other means. By the fame means, the patient, from being in a febrile heat and much confufed, foon becomes very tranquil; The violent pulfation of the heart and larger arteries abates, and, the blood not being propel- led with fuch impetuolity into the fmaller veffels of the part, they are thereby left at more liberty to retracfl j and as in this ftate they do not pour forth red blood fo freely, they are the more readily covered with that vifcid glutinous fluid which we have already fhown to be one of the mofl: important means intended by nature for the prevention of fuch hemorrhagies. At the fame time that by the means recom- mended we endeavour to allay the com- motion produced in the fyftem, the patient ought to be kept exceedingly cool; wine and other cordials fliould be rigidly avoid- ed j cold water, acidulated either with the E 3 mineralOf the Ligature Chap. II. 70 mineral or vegetable acids, ought to be the only drink; motion of every kind, particularly of the part affedled, fhould be guarded againft; and the wound being gently covered with lint or foft charpie, ought to be tied up with a bandage fo ap- plied as to produce a moderate degree of preffure on the extremities of the divided parts. In every extenlive wound attended with hemorrhagies of this kind, and particularly when violent fpafmodic affedlions of the mufcles fupervene, together with the means already recommended, large dofes of opi- ates are found highly beneficial; for what- ever hurtful efFetSIs may have been appre- hended from opiates in fome inflamma- tory affeclions, every pradlitioner who has ventured on a free ufe of them mull ad- mit, that in all occurrences of this nature their influence far furpafles that of any other remedy. As foon therefore as a fuffident quan^ tity of blood has been difcharged, and the ^pund is drefled and the patient laid to reft,71 Chap. II. of Arteries^ reft, a dofe of opium proportioned to the violence of the fymptoms ought to be ex- hibited. It fhould be remarked, how- ever, that, in all fuch circumftances, much larger dofes of the remedy are neceflary, than in ordinary cafes requiring the ufe of opiates. Small dofes, inftead of an- fwering any good purpofe, feem fre-^ quently rather to aggravate the various fymptoms; fo that, whenever they are here employed, they ought always to be given in quantities fufficient for the in- tended effecft. Although hemorrhagies of this nature do now and then occur in firm vigorous conftitutions ; yet they undoubtedly hap- pen much more frequently in relaxed en*^ feebled habits, where the folids have loft part of their natural firmnefs, and the fluids have acquired fome degree of putrefcency. As the vefTels in this fituatlon are fuppofed to have been deprived of that degree of tone of which we wifli them to be poflef- fed, inftead of reftraining the patient from the ufe of cordials, as is done ufually in E 4 • everyOf the Ligature Chap. II, 72 every cafe of heraorrhagy, a moderate ufe of generous wine ought to be immediately prefcribed; for nothing, it may be obfer- ved, tends fo much in fuch circumflances to reftrain hemorrhagies, as a welKdireded ufe of proper cordials. By tending to in- vigorate and brace the folids, they thereby enable the arterial fyftem to give a due refiftance to the contained fluids; and the fame cadfe, it may be obferved, has a con- fiderabie influence in reftoring to the fluids that vifcidity of which in all fuch inftances we foppofe them to be deprived. Whenever, therefore, fuch tedious her- morrhagies occur in relaxed debilitated habits, a free ufe of Port,' Madeira, or any other wine whofe ftrength and goodnefs can be depended on, ought to be immediate- ly allowed; a nourifhing diet alfo becomes proper; the patient ought to be kept cool; and the mineral acids, from their known utility in every fpecies of hemorrhagy, ought alfo to be prefcribed. Reft of body is here proper too; and opiates, when in- dicated either By pain or fpafmodic aflec-Chap. II. of Arteries^ \Ac, I tions of the mvifcles, ought never to be omitted. Together with thefe remedies adapted to the general fyftem, particular drellings, appropriated to the ftate of the parts to which they are to be applied, have been found very beneficial. We have already remarked, that in firm healthy conftitu- tions, as foon as the difcharge of blood which naturally occurs in every large wound is over, the parts come foon to be covered with a vifcid coagulable efFufion from the mouths of the now retradled ar- teries ; but in conftitutions of an oppofite nature, where the folids are much relaxed, the blood in general is found in fuch a difTolved flate as to afford no fecretion of this nature. In order therefore to fupply as much as poffible the deficiency of this natural bal- fam, different artificial applications have been invented. Dufting the parts with ftarch or wheat-flour has fometimes been found of ufe; and I have known gum arajbic74 Of the Ligature Chap. II. arable in fine powder to anfwer when thefe have failed. Applications of this kind, indeed, have been ufed with fiiccefs in all fuch hemor- rhagies, with whatever habit of body they happen to be connected ; but they have al- ways proved more particularly ferviceable in relaxed conftitutions, attended with a dilTolved ftate of the blood and an enfeebled mufcular fyftem. We may here ufe with freedom too, a remedy which in fuch cir- cumftances generally proves ferviceable, but which in conftitutions of an oppofite nature ought never to be employed. The remedy alluded to is alcohol, or any other ardent fplrits, impregnated with as great a quantity as they can dilfolve of myrrh or any other of the heating vifeid gums. The * balfamum traumaticum of the fliops, a re- medy of this nature, has long been famous for its influence in fuch cafes: but that in- diferiminate ufe of this and fimilar applica- tions which has long prevailed with fome pradlitioners, I am confident has done much harm j for, as they are all poflefled of very ftimulatingChap. II. of Arteries^ 75* fUmulating powers, they of courfe tend to" aggravate every fymptom in wounds con- nected with a tenfe date of fibres, w'hen much pain, and efpecially when fpamodic mufcular affedtions prevail. But, in con- ftitutions of an oppofite nature, where the blood appears to be in adiffolved (late, and where the arterial fyftem feems evidently to require a flimulus, remedies of this clafs come to be very ufeful: Infomuch that, in every conflitution of this kind where he- morrhagies prove troublefome, no applica- tion whatever is found to anfwer better, than charpie immerfed in an agglutinating fpirituous balfam of this nature. By a due perfeverance in one or other of the plans here pointed out, it will feldoin happen that hemorrhagies of this nature are not at laft reftrained: But when the contrary does occur; when, notwithfland- ing the ufe of the remedies recommended, a difcharge of blood flill continues; to- gether with the means already advifed, an equal moderate prefTure ought to be ap^ plied over the whole furface of the fore, to be7 6 Of the Ligaturey ^c. Chap. II, be continued as long as the neceflity of the cafe feems to indicate. In finiftiing the dreflings of fuch wounds, after the charpie and comprefTes have been applied, a b"kndage ought to be adapted to th’e part in fuch a manner as to produce as equal a degree of prefTiire over the fur- face of the fore as poffible. But it fome- times happens, that no bandage whatever can be fo applied as to produce the defired effedl; and in fuch cafes, the hand of an afllftant is the only refource. In fuch in- flances, a perfon’s hand being firmly ap- plied over the dreffings, fo as to produce a very equal degree of preiTire, will co.n- monly fucceed when no other remedy is found to have much influence. Having thus endeavoured to point out the moft effectual means of putting a flop to morbid hemorrhagies, we fhall now proceed to confider the different modes em- ployed by art, for effedling a difcharge of blood when indicated by the prefence of fome diforder in the confUtution. CHAP.Sea. I. Of Blood^lettwg, 77 CHAP. III. Q/'Blood-letting. SECTION I. Of Blood-letting in general, jgLOOD -LETTING, whether we confider it as to its influence on the fyftem, or with refpea to the nicenefs and even dif- ficulty of the mode ufually employed for effbaing it, is perhaps one of the mofl: im- portant operations in furgery. From its being fo frequently put in praaice, and from every pretender to any knowledge in, the healing art being able to perform it without any apparent difiiculty, the pub- lic have been induced to confider it as trivial with refpea to its execution; but every praaitioner of charaaer mufl: ac- knowledge, that, in order to perform this operation78 Of Blood-letting. Chap. Ill* operation properly, the greateft nicety, fteadinefs, and exadlnefs, are neceffary. All the other operations in furgery I have fre- quently feen vv^ell performed; but I can with freedom fay, that I have feldom feen blood-letting with the lancet done very cor- redlly: When properly performed, it is really a neat operation ; but when not done with exadlnefs, it is the very reverfe. It is not here meant to enter into the conlideration of the various caufes which in different circumftances point out the propriety of abftradling blood from the fyftem ; nor is it intended to enter upon a particular difcuffion of the different effedls produced by general and topical blood-let- ting: Thefe confiderations, as being highly important, would of themfelves extend to a very great length; and befide$, are of fuch a nature as renders it impoffible to enter minutely upon their difcuflion in any fy- ftem of furgery* All that is here intended, is to defcribe as clearly as poflible the va- rious modes of performing the operation of blood-letting. I In79 Se(5l. L Of Blood-letting, In all inflammatory aftedllons produ- cing a general diforder of the fyftem, the method of taking away blood as now efta- bliflied by immemorial pra(5lice, is, by fuch means as difcharge the quantity to be taken in a fliort fpace of time, by an open- ing made with a lancet, either in an artery or in a vein. Whether there is any real difference in the effects produced by thefe two modes of difcharging blood, it may be diflic Lilt to determine with any preci- fion ; but there is reafon to fuppofe, that, independent of the quantity taken, the difference is of lefs importance than is commonly imagined. The latter of thefe termed Phlebotomy, and the former Ar- teriotomy, are the means employed for what wc term general blood-letting; the particular confideration of which we fhall prefently attend to. But it often happens, in diforders of an inflammatory nature, where there is evi- dently a fixed local affedlion, and where no great degree of fever takes place, that general blood-letting has not much influ- enceSo Chap. IIL Of Blood-letting. ence in mitigating the fymptoms; and in fuch circumftances confiderable advantage is frequently obtained by difcharging blood from the part immediately affeded, by di- viding a number of the fmall veiTels which fupply it; and this we term Topical or Loccd blood-letting. The means employed by art for difcharging blood in this man- ner (hall be afterwards treated of, and we now return to the particular confideracion of phlebotomy. Wherever a vein of a tolerable fize can be reached with fafety, an opening for the difcharge of blood may be made in it with a lancet; but the following are the parts from whence blood is ufually taken in this manner; viz. from the veins of the arm at the flexure of the cubitus; from the jugular veins; and from the veins of the ankles and feet. On particular occaflons, too, blood is advifed to be taken from the veins of the hand, of the tongue, &c. There are fome general rules and obfer- vations which relate equally to this opera- tion in whatever part of the body it is prac- I tifed jSed. I. Of Blood-ldthigi 81 tifed; thefe we fhall in the firft place point out with as much accuracy as pofliblcj and lhall afterwards proceed to treat par- ticularly of blood-letting in the arm and other parts. I. In this as in every other operation, the fituation of the patient, and of the ope- rator likewife, ought to be precifely fixed* As the fituation of a patient during the operation of blood-letting, has a confider- able influence on the effeds produced by the evacuation upon the fyftem, this cir- cumftance therefore merits our particular attention. In fome diforders, it is the objed of this remedy, to evacuate a confiderable quantity of blood without inducing faint- ing : When this is the cafe, and when from former experience it is known that the patient to be operated upon is liable du- ring the evacuation to fall into, a faintifh date, a horizontal pofture, either upon a bed or on a couch, ought to be preferred to every other; for every praditioner is now well acquainted with this fad, that faint- VoL. I. F ing82 Of Blood-letting, Chap. III. ing does not fo readily occur in a horizontal as in an ere<5l pofture. It now and then happens, however, that one material advantage expe(5led from the operation of blood-letting, is the inducing a flate of deliquium ; as for inftance, in cafes of ftrangulated hernia, where a ge- neral relaxation of the fyftem is fometimes delirable. In all fuch circumftances, in- ftead of a horizontal pofture, the more ered; the patient is kept, the more readily will a ftate of fainting be induced; So that the particular objed in view from the operation, muft at all times determine this matter. While we thus attend particularly to the pofture of the body at large, the particu- lar polition of the limb or part to be ope- rated upon muft not be negleded. In every operation it is a matter of much importance to have the patient feated in a proper light, but in none is it more material than in blood-letting. The beft general rule that can be given upon this point is, that the patient ought to be fp placed,Seel. L Of Blood-lettings Sj - F 2 entirely placed, as that the principal light of the apartment lliall fall diredlly upon the part to be operated upon, fo that the vein to be opened may be made as apparent as pof- fible. When clear day-light can be ob- tained, it ought to be preferred; but when this cannot be procured, one or more candles fhould be ufed. But, whatever may be the pofition of the part itfelf, and whether the patient is to be placed on a bed or on a chair, the furgeon ought always to be feated. The operation may, no doubt, be done while the furgeon is Handing; and it is moft frequently indeed performed in this manner: but it can never be done either with fuch fteadinefs or neatnefs, as when the operator is firmly feated on a chair. II. From the coats of veins being more flaccid than thofe of arteries, and from the blood not circulating with fuch rapidity in the former as in the latter, an opening made in one of thefe will feldom difeharge blood freely, unlefs the vein be either cut84 Of Blood-letting, Chap. III. entirely acrofs, which in general would be produclive of difagreeable confequcoces, or unlefs the blood be prevented from re- turning to the heart, by means of a liga- ture placed between the heart and that part of the vein in which the opening is to be made. The patient being properly feated, the next ftep muft therefore be, by means of a proper bandage fo to comprefs the vein in- tended to be opened, as to prevent the blood from returning to the heart; and for the fame reafon, an equal degree of preffure, it is obvious, ought to be applied to all the other veins of the part; for, if this cireum- ftance lliould not be attended to, the com- munication preferved by the collateral cor- refponding branches, vsrould render the prelTure upon any one particular vein of very little importance. But, independently of its producing a more free difcharge of blood, than could be otherwife obtained, this prefTure upon the veins, by caviling an accumulation of their contents, tends to bring them more evidently into view, and confequentlySedl. r. Of Blood~letting. 85- confequently renders it eafier for the ope- rator to effedl a proper opening than he would otherwife find it. Although compreflion, however, to a certain extent, is neceflary for this purpofe of accumulating a quantity of blood in the veins, and for afterwards difcharging it at an opening made by the lancet, it is at the fame time perfedlly evident that any con- fiderable degree of prelTure, inftead of for- warding thefepurpofes,muftobftru6l them entirely ; for, if the preflure intended to be applied to the veins only, fhould acci- dentally be carried fo far as to reft mate- rially upon the arteries connedted with them, all farther accefs of blood to the veins would be thereby cut off, fo that no eva- cuation of importance could take place at any opening to be made in them. When- ever it is intended, therefore, to evacuate blood in this manner, a good deal of nicety is requiiite in applying this preflure upon the veins : It ought always to be car- ried fo far as effedlually to comprefs the veins of the part, but never to fuch a length F 3 asOf Blood-letting, Chap. III. 86 as to obftrudi the circulation in the corre- fponding arteries. When we fee that the prelTure has the efFg£t of railing the veins, and if at the fame time the pulfation of the artery is dillindlly felt in the inferior part of the member, we may then be cer- tain that it is applied to a very proper de-r gree, and that it ought not to be carried farther : For by the fwelling of the veins, we are fure that they are fufficiently com- prelfed ; and by the arteries continuing to beat, it is evident that a continued flow of blood may be expelled, III. The reflux of blood to the heart being in this manner prevented, the next point to be determined, is, the bell me- thod of making an opening into the vein. Different inftruments have been invented for this purpofe ; but there are two only which have been retained in ufe, and which are all, therefore, that here require to be mentioned. Thefe are, the Lancet and the Phleme. This laft, on being placed im- mediately on the part to be cut, is by me9.ns of a fpring ftruck fuddenly into the veip, andSedl. I. Of Blood-letting, gy F 4 of and produces an opening of the exa<fl fize of the inftrument employed. The phleme, in many parts of Germany, has acquired fome reputation, particularly in taking blood from the jugular vein : But there are various obje<5lions to this inftru- ment, which will probably prevent it from ever coming into general ufe; and thefe particularly are, that we are obliged, from the nature of the inftrument, to regulate the deepnefs to which it is to go, before it is applied; Now we know well, that in blood-letting this is acircumftance of which we are never by any means certain; for we frequently, after the introduction of a lan- cet, find it neceftary to go much deeper than was at firft expeCled; fo that, when a phleme is ufed, unlefs we employ one on every occafion of a length which cannot be frequently required, we muft often meet with difappointments. But the moft material objection to this inftrument is, that where there are arteries or other parts lying below the veins, and in any danger of being hurt by the operation88 Of Blood-letting, Chap. III. of blood-letting, the rifle is mnch greater with the phleme than with the lancet; For when the lancet is ufed, after the vein is once opened, the orifice may be enlarged at plea- fure without any additional rifle, merely by carrying the inftrument forward along the courfe of the vein at the fame depth to which it was at firfl introduced; whereas the phleme, as foon as it enters the vein, muft for certain pafs diredlly downwards as far as its length will permit it to go; a cir- cumflance w'hich adds greately to the rifk of wounding the parts underneath. Independently of this too, by the ufe of the lancet, we have it much more in our power to command an orifice of a deter- mined fize than when the phleme is ufed: So that without hefitation, we may venture to pronounce the phleme to be an inftru- raent in no degree neceffary; but for fuch as incline to ufe it, themofl convenient form of one is reprefented in Plate 111. fig. 2. The manner of ufing the phleme is as follows. The bandage for producing the turgefcency of the veins being applied in the■JI ' 1 s''. ’V / J 1 I i \Se6l. I. Of Blood-letting, the manner already direded, the point of the inftrumenty^, with the fpring properly bent, muft be fo placed upon the part of the vein to be opened, that an orifice of an oblique diredlion may be made in it on the fpring B being let loofe. The fubfe- quent management is the fame here as when the lancet is ufed, and will be pre- fently pointed out. When it is determined to employ the lancet, the form of the inftrument is evi- dently the firft circumflance requiring our attention; although we may here'remark, that this goint is feldom fo particularly attended to as it ought to be. The form of lancet in ordinary ufe, as reprefented in Plate IV. fig. 5. is an inftru- ment which ought to be laid entirely afide. For opening abfcefles it is very well calcu- lated, but for the operation of blood-letting it ought never to be ufed. The capital objedlion to this form of lan- cet, is, that the broadnefs of its flioulders produces always a wound in the external teguments of perhaps three times the fize ofOf Blood-letting, Chap. Ill, ^0 of the opening made in the vein ; a cir- cumftance which adds no advantage what- ever to the operation: On the contrary, it produces much unneceffary pain in the fir ft inftance; it renders it frequently a very difficult matter to command a ftoppage of the blood; and the wounds produced by it are commonly fo extenfive as to render them very liable to terminate in partial fuppurations, an occurrence which always proves painful and difagreeable to the pa- tient. The fpear-pointed lancet, on the con- trary, as reprefented in Plate IV. fig. 3. and 4. is an inftrument in every refpedl well calculated for the purpofe of venaefeiftion. From the acutenefs of its point, it enters the teguments and vein with very little pain; which, we may here obferve, is with many patients a circumftance of no fmall impor- tance: We are fure of making the opening in the vein equal, or nearly fo, to the ori- fice in the external teguments; And the difeharge of blood produced by an opening made with one of tliefe lancets, is commonly putSe<5l. I. Of Bloodletting'* put a flop to with great eafe, immediately on removing the ligature upon the vein. For thefe reafons, therefore, the fpear- pointed lancet is highly preferable to every other : And although, with timid prac5li- tioners, the acute point of this inftrument may appear to require more dexterity in ufing it than the brbad-fliouldered lan- cet ; yet the difference in this refpebl is fo inconfiderable, that very little expe- rience muft, with every pradlitioner who gives it a fair trial, very foon counterba- lance all fuch objeclions. Indeed no fur- geon ought to be trufled in letting blood with the one, whofe fteadinefs and dexte- rity would be in any degree doubted with the other. IV. The form of lancet being thus fixed upon, we come now to fpeak of the me- thod of ufing it. The furgeon and patient being both properly feated, and the ligature having been applied for a fliort fpace of time in order to produce fome degree of fwelling in the veins, that vein is to be made ^'hoice of, which, at the fame time that it92 Of Blood-letting, Chap. Ill, it appears confpicuoufly enough, is found to roll lefs than the others on being prelTed upon by the fingers. There are fome veins which roll fo much, from being loofe and unconnedled with the cellular fubftance of the part, that although they may rife fuffi- ciently, yet are much worfe to operate up- on than others which lie at a much greater depth. That vein therefore is to be prefer- red which not only rifes fo as to become perfe<flly evident, but which appears to be connedled with fome degree of firmnefs to the contiguous parts. It is ibarcely thought necefiary to obferve here, that when a vein appears to be fo immediately connedled with a contiguous artery or tendon, as evidently to produce fome rifk of wound- ing thefe parts dn the operation, if an- other vein not liable to fuch hazard can be procured, it ought undoubtedly to be preferred. Veins may lie diredlly above both arteries and tendons, and yet no manner of rilk be incurred by opening them, provided the operator is fufficiently fteady and atten- tive ;93 Of Blood-letting, Sea. I. tive; but it does now and then happen, that veins are fo nearly and intimately conneded with thefe parts, as to render it hazardous even for the moft dexterous fur- geon to attempt this operation. The vein being at laft made choice of, the furgeon, if he is to ufe his right-hand in the operation, takes a firm hold of the member from whence the blood is to be drawn, with his left, and, with the thumb of the fame hand, he is now to make fuch a degree of preffure upon the vein, about an inch and half below the ligature, as not only to render the fliin and teguments fomewhat tenfe, but at the fame time to in- terrupt for a little all communication be- tween the under part of the vein, and that portion of it lying between the ligature and the thumb placed as thus diredled. The lancet being bent to fomewhat more than right angles, the operator now takes it between the finger and thumb of his right- hand ; and, leaving at leaft one half of the blade uncovered, he refts his hand on the middle finger, ring-finger, and little finger,94 Of Bloodletting, Chap. I1I« fingei*, all pladed as conveniently as pof-* fible in the neighbourhood of the vein from whence the blood is to be taken, and ha- ving puftied the point of the inftrument freely through the Ikin and teguments in- to the vein, he now carries it forward in an oblique dirc<5lion, till the orifice is of the fize he inclines to have it; taking care^ during the time of pufliing on the lancet, that its point be kept in as ftraight a di- re<5lion as poflible, for fear of dipping into the parts below. The inftrument is now to be withdrawn, and the furgeon removing the thumb of his left hand, is to allow the vein to empty itfelf freely into the cups provided for the purpofe. It is here of importance to obferve, that, during the time the blood is difcharging, the member ought to be kept in exa<ftly the fame pofture it was in when the lancet was firft introduced; Otherwife, the orifice in the fldn is apt to flip over the opening in the vein; a circumftance which always proves inconvenient, and on fome occafions I produces95 Sea. I. Of Blooa-kttmg, produces a good deal of trouble by the blood from the vein infinuating itfelf into the furrounding cellular fubflance. In taking hold of the lancet, "we have di« reaed the fcales to form rather an acute angle with the blade of the inftrument. It will even anfwer when they are at right angles; but a farther feparation proves al- ways troublefome, by throwing the fcales too much back upon the operator’s hand# The length of inftrument left out from between the finger and thumb is another circumftance requiring our attention; for unlefs a fufficient quantity of it is left un- covered, the operator cannot aa with free- dom. In lancets of an ordinary length, one half of the blade, as I have already remarked, or very nearly that quantity, ought always to be left out. The entry of the lancet into the vein is the next circumftance we have defired to be attended to. By very little attention the entrance of the inftrument into the vein may be diftinaiy perceived; for as foon as its point has entered the cavity of the veflel, thei hand. 56 Of Blood-^ktting, Chap. HI* the refiftance to its farther progrefs is evi- dently found to be much diminifhed; and immediately on the opening being in any degree enlarged, the blood begins to rufli out, which is the cleared proof of the ope- ration being fo far complete. On being thus rendered fure that the lancet has got into the vein, we have alfo defired that it may be carried forward in an oblique di- rection, taking care to keep the point of the inftrument in the fame degree of ele- vation from the inftant it has paffed fairly through the coats of the vein; and to this part of the operation we would beg the mod particular attention. To the want of neceflary caution in this matter, or ra- ther to the improper regulations held forth upon it by every writer on this fubjedt, much of the rilk attending this operation ought to be attributed. The propriety of an oblique direction for the courfe of the orifice is very obvious: For, when made altogether longitudinal, the fides of the wound are apt to fall im- mediately together, fo as not to admit of a free difeharge of blood j and, on the otherOf Blood-letting, 97 Se(5l. I. hand, when the vein is cut entirely acrofs, troublefome confequences commonly en- fue from the wound being very difficult to heal: An orifice fomewhat oblique with re- fped; to the courfe of the vein, is therefore preferable to either. But the material cir- cumflance to be kept in view is the direc- tion of the point of the lancet after it has got fairly into the vein. By almoft every author who has written upon blood-letting, as foon as the lancet is known to have got into the vein, in order to extend the orifice to a fufficient length, we are diretfled, very properly, to carry the inflrument forward: But in what manner are we defired to do fo ? By railing the heel of the lancet, as it is termed, at the fame time that the point and edge of it is in fome degree pufhed forward, fo as to make the point of the in- flrument the centre of motion. The reafon of this laft precaution is, that the internal orifice of the vein may not be farther extended upwards than the external wound in the fkin and other teguments; as ecchymofes, or effufions VoL. I. G ofOf Blood-letting, Chap. III. g8 of blood into the cellular fubftance, have with the broad-lhouldered lancet been, found frequently to occur from a contrary management. But when the fpear-pointed lancet is ufed, this is an occurrence which may be always avoided; as, from the nar- row point of the inftrument, it may with fafety be carried on in the cavity of the vein as far as is necelTary. The orifice produced by it in the vein, muft, when the operation is properly done, be always of very nearly the fame extent as the external wound in the teguments: And by the fame manage- ment we avoid that capital rifle which it is evident muft always occur from an implicit obedience to the direeflion alluded to; for one certain efifeeft of raifing the heel, or back part of the lancet, is, that the point of the inftrument muft in the fame pro- portion be deprefled; and the confequence of lowering the point of the lancet, already perhaps Aiding along the under fide of the vein, muft at once appear to be very ha- zardous. For in fuch circumftances, if the point of the inftrument be depreflTed, which muftOf Blood-letting, 99 Sedl. I. muft undoubtedly happen if the back part of it be elevated, it muft for certain pafs through the back part of the vein; fo that if either an artery, nerve, or tendon, lie con- tiguous, they muft of neceflity be 'W'ound- ed; and I am perfecflly convinced, that this caufe alone has frequently been the origin both of wounded arteries, and of pricks in the nerves and tendons. So that as the hazard of the pracflice, whenever it is atten- tively confidered, muft at once appear evi- dent, and as the fuppofed inconvenience arifing from a contrary mode of operating is effedtually prevented by the ufe of the fpear-pointed lancet, all fuch rifles there- fore fhould be carefully avoided. With refpeeft to the fize of orifice in cafes of blood-letting, this circumftance muft at all times be determined by the nature of the diforder for which the evacuation is preferibed. When a fuddeil lofs of a confiderable quantity of blood is intended, either with a view to produce a ftate of fainting, or for any other reafon, a free large orifice is abfolutely neceffary; but in G 2 ordinary100 Of Blood-let ting t Chap. Ill, ordinary pradlice, no neceflity occurs for this. In ufing a fpear-pointed lancet, an ori- fice of about an eighth part of an inch in length will in general anfwer every pur- pofe; but when a lancet with broad fhqul- ders is ufed, an opening of twice that fize is little enough, for with fuch an inftrument the orifice in the vein can feldom be above half the extent of the external opening.* After withdrawing the lancet from the orifice, we have diredled the thumb of the left-hand to be removed from the place it was made to occupy. Many circumftances may appear to be related here with unne- cefifary minutenefs, and this among others may pofllbly be confidered as one; but in an operation of importance, every parti- cular requires much attention. Now, one material ufe of the thumb placed below the part where the lancet was dire(5led to enter, is, to keep the teguments and vein firm, fo as to prevent the latter from rolling. But another advantage occurring from it is, that by making a fufficient degree of preffure upon101 Of Blood-letting, Sc(5l. I. upon the vein, it thereby prevents any con- fiderable quantity of blood from efcaping between the time of removing the lancet, and the application of one of the cups for receiving the blood from the orifice in the vein. During this period it frequently happens, that a good deal of blood is dif- charged, to the great annoyance both of the patient, the operator, and byftanders ; a circumftance which, with a little attention, may be always effedlually prevented. V. When the vein is properly cut, and the orifice is made fufhciently large, it rare- ly occurs that any difficulty is experienced in procuring all the blood that is wanted. But it now and then happens otherwife, ei- ther from the orifice of the flvin and other parts having receded from the opening in the vein, or from the patient having become faintifh ; a fituation always unfavourable to a free difcharge of blood. When this lafl circumftance occurs, a ftream of frefli ^ir ought to be admitted to the apartment, wine or fome other cordial fhould be ad- miniftered, and the patient ought to be laid G 3 into102 Of Blood-letting. Chap. Ill, into a horizontal pofture. By thefe means the faintilhnefs will in general be foon re- moved ; but if ftill the blood ftiould not flow freely, the member ought to be put into all the variety of pofitions that can probably afllfl; in bringing the opening of the fldn and other teguments to correfpond with that of the vein, which will foon be known to have happened by the blood beginning inftantly to flow. Throwing the mufcles of the part into conftant adlion, by giving the patient a cane or any other firm fub- flance, to turn frequently round in his hand when the operation is done in the arm, will often anfwer in producing a conftant flow of blood from a vein, when every other means has failed: And laftly, when the pulfe in the inferior part of the member is felt very feeble, or efpecially if it can- not be diftinguifhed at all, we may be thereby rendered certain that the ligature is too tight, and may in general have it in our power to produce an immediate flow of blood by removing the comprefTion thus103 Sea. I. Of Blood-letting. thus improperly made upon the arteries of the part. VI. A quantity of blood proportioned to the circumftances of the diforder, being thus difcharged, the prelTure upon the fuperior part of the vein fliould be immediately re- moved ; and this being done, if the fpear- pointed lancet has been ufed, all farther difcharge of blood will in general flop im- mediately. The contrary, however, fome- times occurs, ^and blood continues to flow freely even after the ligature is removed. When this is the cafe, the operator ought to comprefs the vein both above and below the orifice by means of the finger and thumb of one hand, fo as to prevent any farther lofs of blood: And this being done, the limb ought to be waflied and entirely cleared of any blood that may have fallen upon it; and the orifice being alfo cleared of every par- ticle of blood, the fides of it lliould be laid as exacSlly together as pofiible,and a piece of what is named court-plafter, or any other that is fufficiently adhefive, being fo ap- plied as to retain them, it will feldom hapr G 4 pei>104 Of Blood-letting. Chap. Ill, pen that any kind of bandage is neceflary: put when the blood has iffued with un- common violence during the operation, and has been difhcult to command after the removal of the ligature, in fuch in- flances it will be prudent to apply a fmall comprefs of linen over the plafter, and to fecure the whole with a linen roller pro- perly applied round the member. Before applying the plafter, we have di- recfted the orifice to be perfedlly cleared of every particle of blood ; and this, it may be obferved, is a circumftance of more im- portance than is commonly imagined; for, by not attending particularly to this point* and from want of exatftnefs in clofing the lips of the orifice, painful fwellings and confequent fuppurations are often induced, which a very little attention would have eafily prevented. In every inftance when the operation is properly done, the wound ought to heal by what furgeons call the firft intention, that is, by the parts adhe- ring to one another without the formation of matter; but this can feldom happen if the lips of the fore have not been very neat- hSe(5l. I. Of‘Blood-letting, 105 ly laid together after all the blood has been perfectly cleared away. Another argument of importance, too, occurs for neatnefs in this matter. Among other troublefome confequences arifing now and then from blood-letting, inflam- mation produced in the cavity of the vein has in fome inflances been known to occa- fion much mifchief; and as nothing tends more to produce it than the admiffion of air to the part, by the orifice in the vein not being properly clofed, this circumftance of itfelf ftrongly points out the propriety of the caution here given: For although fuch inflammatory affedlions in the inter- nal furfaces of veins are not by any means to be confidered as frequent, yet it is cer- tain they do now and then occur; and as the confequences arifing from them, efpe- cially if fuppuration is induced, muft com- monly terminate fatally, they ought cer- tainly, by every means in our power, to be flri6lly guarded againft. VII. We come now to fpeak of fome troublefome confequences which on fome occafionslo6 Of Blood-letting. Chap. Ilf. occafions are found to occur from blood- letting, and which every operator ought to be as much as pofllble prepared to remedy. The mod; material of thefe are, fmall tu- mors occalioned by effufions of blood from the orifice of the vein into the furround- ing cellular fubftance; wounds of the ar- tery lying contiguous to the vein; pricks of the nerves and tendons; and laftly, inflam- mation, induced in the internal cavity of the vein, as we* have juft now mentioned. Thefe we fliall now, under feparate heads, proceed to treat of particularly S E C- * Among other reafons which we have given for preferring a fpear-pointed lancet, it was obferved, that by means of it the operation of blood-letting is attend- ed with much lefs pain than when the broad-fhouldered lancet is ufed: And the prevention of pain is a mat- ter of fuch importance, that nothing fliould be omitted that can in any degree contribute to it. In every operation it is of much confequence to have all the neceflary inftruments in the moft complete or- der*, but in no inftance is it of fuch importance to attend to this circumftance as in blood-letting. Well- tempered lancets will no doubt anfwer tolerably well, even after they have been frequently ufed; infomuch thatSedl. II. Of Blood-letting. ioy> SECTION II. Of a Thrcmbus^ or Ecchymofs. have already dehred, that in the operation of blood-letting, the mem- ber fliould be retained in the very fame pofture it was in when the lancet was in- troduced, till the whole quantity of blood intended to be taken is evacuated. When this diredlion is not duly attended to, it commonly happens, that a fmall tumor is railed immediately above the ori- fice that I have heard even well-employed furgeons affert, that they have ufed one or two lancets only during the courfe of many years pra£l;ice, without ever having them touched by a cutler. But it is very certain, that every time a lancet is ufed, it mull be injured more or lefs ; fo that, as the prevention of pain is with moft patients a matter of no fmall confequence, I think it ought to be laid down as a fixed rule never to ufe the fame lancet twice, without putting it into the hands of a cutler. This I have long been in the pradlice of doing, not only with lancets, but with every cutting inftrument; and the trouble and expence attending it is very inconfiderable, when compared with the ad- vantages refulting from it.io8 OJ'Blood-letting, Chap. Ill, fice in the vein, by the blood infinuating itfelf into the cellular fubflance of the neighbouring parts. Such a tumors when round and finall, is termed a Throm- bus ; and when more diflPufed, an Ecchy- mofis. * Immediately on the appearance of fuch fwellings, the ligature ought to be removed from the fuperior part of the vein; and the member being brought into that pofture which it was in when the lancet was firft introduced, the ligature may be again re- newed ; and it will thus be frequently found that a free return of blood will be induced, which commonly carries off the fwelling altogether, or at leafl prevents it from pro- ducing any farther obftrudlion to the dif- charge of blood. But it does now and then happen, that thefe fwellings come at once to fuch a fize, as entirely to preclude every poffibility of finifhing the operation at the orifice firft made in the vein. Even here, however, the ligature ought to be imme- diately removed, as the moft effectual me- thod of preventing an increafe of the tu- mor.Sea. II. Of Blood-letting, 109 mor. By centinuing the bandage on the vein, the blood ftill continues to be forced in great quantities into the furrounding cellular fubftance; and by the fame means fuch fwellings are induced, as now and then give a* great deal of trouble, which by a contrary management might eafily have been prevented from coming to any con- fiderable height. In fuch occurrences, as it is in vain to expea any confiderable quantity of blood from the orifice firft made, the next flep to be taken, is, to finifli the operation, not by another opening in the fame vein, which in fuch circumftances would feldom be found to bleed freely, but in any other that lies moO: convenient. When tumors of this kind do not arrive at any great fize, very little is necelfary to be done for their difperfion, as the effufed blood is commonly foon abforbed. When it is found neceflary, however, to have re- courfe to difeutient remedies, thofe of the aftringent kind are by far the moft ef- feaual i and of this clafs brandy or any otherno Of Blood-letting. Chap. Ilf* other ardent fpirits are perhaps as ufeful as any. Comprefles wet in a weak folu- tion of crude fal ammoniac in vinegar, and applied with a very moderate degree of preffure, have likewife been found very effedlual in difcufling fuch fwellings. Inftances, however, do now and then occur, though by no means very frequently, of the blood colle(5ted in fwellings of this nature being in too great quantities to be all abforbed : and when this happens to be the cafe, as no good fuppuration can be induced where there is nothing but red blood contained in the tumor, it ought to be immediately laid open as foon as there is reafon to fuppofe that no farther dimi- nution of fize will probably occur from abforption. This being done, and the coa- gulated blood being evacuated, the fore falls to be treated like any ordinary wound. But occurrences of this nature, are in general of very little importance when compared with other accidents which now and then proceed from blood-letting. The 2 firftIII Sedl. HI. Of Bhod-htting, firfl of thefe we are to treat of are wounds of arteries. SECTION III. Of Wounds of the Arteries, TN the fmaller arteries, as for inftance in any branch of the temporal artery, openings may be made without much rilk; but we know from long and repeated ex- perience, that wounds in the larger arteries often prove hazardous, and very feldom heal without a great deal of trouble. When in blood-letting we have reafon to fufpecft that an artery has been wounded through the orifice made in the vein, and that blood is difcharging at the fame ori- fice both from the artery and the vein, it becomes a matter of importance for an operator to know with precifion whether it is fo or not. There is only one method by which a complete degree of certainty can be obtained on this point; and it is this: When the blood is difcharged from the vein only, if a degree of preflure be applied both112 Of Blood-letting* Chap. III. both Immediately above and below the orifice fufhcient for comprefTmg the fides of the vein together, all farther evacuation of blood fhould inflantly flop, even though the prefTure is not fo confiderable as to affedl the artery below ; but on the con- trary, if part of the blood be thrown out from the wounded artery, this prefTure upon the vein, inftead of putting a flop to the difcharge, fhould rather tend to make it more confiderable. When at the fame time the blood is difcharged per faltum^ this will no doubt ferve as a corroborating circumftance: But this teftof itfelf, we may remark, is by no means fo decifive as is commonly imagined ; for, an orifice made in a vein lying diredtly above and imme- diately contiguous to a confiderable artery, receives the influence of the arterial pulfa- tion to fuch a degree, as to difcharge blood very nearly in the fame manner as if the artery itfelf was cut. No other proof, however, is neceflary of the artery being wounded, than the one we have already mentione d j for, if after the vein is tho- 2 roughlyIII. Of Blood-letting, 113 roughly coraprelTed both abov6 and below the orifice, blood ftill continues to be dlfcharged in great quantities and with any confiderable force, our fufpicions of the artery being wounded are then reduced to the utmoft degree of certainty. Allowing this to be the cafe, that in fuch clrcumftances we are rendered certain of the lancet having pierced the artery, what remedy ought we to have recourfe to? Not the means ufually advifed, but the very reverfe. In all fuch occurrences, we are con- ftantly dlrevfled to tie up the part with as much firmnefs as pofTible, in'the firft place with different compreffes placed over the orifice of the vein ; and leafl thefe fhould not produce a fuflicient degree of prefTure, a piece of money or other hard fubftance is defired to be added, and the whole to be fecured with .a roller very tightly applied. But what effedt ought we reafonably to expedl from much prefTure applied in this manner? We cannot fuppofe it was ever intended that any prefTure of this kind VoL, I. H fliouldII4 Of Blood-letting. Chap. KL fliould be fo confiderable as to comprefs the artery itfdf; for by that means when the principal artery of a part is wounded, a total (lop would be put to the circulation in the whole limb: And if the prelTure, on the contrary, is to be applied in fuch a degree as to comprefs the fides of the veins only, one certain effe6l of this muft be, to occafion a confiderable refiftance to the flow of blood from the artery ; and that fluid being thus obftrufled in its natural courfe, will neceflarily be much more readily ef- fufed at the opening in the artery, than if the veins had been all left free and pervi- ous to receive and tranfmit it. In all fuch cafes, therefore, inftead of applying much prefliire, we ought to at- tempt every means of relaxing the veins to the utmoft ; and in order to command the blood, the lips of the wound £hould be laid together, and retained by ftraps of adhefive plafter only, without any ban- dage whatever. And as there is not a more effectual method of relaxing the fyftem at large, and the vafcular fyftemSed. III. Of Blood-letting i iij in particular, than by difcharglng large quantities of blood very quickly, fo foon as it is known that an artery has been ac- cidentally opened, it ought to be imme- diately determined to evacuate by the ori- fice newly made, as much blood as the patient can eafily bear to lofe. By thefe means, and by enjoining ftri(5l attention to reft of body, in order to prevent as much as poftibie the undue acftion of the arterial fyftem, and by keeping the body cool, with the ufe of gentle purgatives, a low diet, and farther blood-lettings when neceftary, there may always be at leaft fome chance of fuch wounds in arteries being brought to reunite : Whereas a contrary management,in which much preftureupon the veins is advifed, muft univerfally do mifchief, by forcing the artery to empty itfelf at the only paflage the blood in fuch circumftances can be difcharged at, Ws. the opening newly made by the lancet; and by fuch treatment many aneurifmal fwel- iings, I am confident, have been produced, H 2 whichii6 • Of Blood-letting. Chap. III. which by the management now pointed out might ealily have been prevented. In cafes of wounded arteries however, it will frequently happen, that no treatment whatever will fucceed; the orifice in the -artery will not reunite, and blood in confi- derable quantities is effufed into the conti- guous parts. Even in this date of the com- plaint, drong predure is advifed, with a view to didlpate the tumor: But unlefs the fwelling is of a very foft nature,, and unlefs the blood contained in it dill remains in a date of duidity, no predure whatever can have any induence in difcuding it; for, whenever the accumulated blood has acquired any moderate degree of drmnefs, we cannot fup'pofe that predure will have any ede6t in driving it back by the padage from whence it originally came. Nor does it appear, that in fuch circumdances, com- predion is of any life in forwarding the abforpcion of extravafated blood. From theory alone we might readily be induced to draw this concludon; but in f^dl we do not know a dngle indance in which pref- fureSc(5l. III. Of Blood-letting, 117 fure in fuch cafes appeared to be produc- tive of any advantage. ' There is indeed a particular fpecies of fwelling, which now and then occurs on an artery being in this manner wounded by a lancet that has previoufly paffed through a a neighbouring vein, and in which mode- rate preffure has proved ferviceable. When an artery thus wounded, lies quite conti- guous to the correfponding vein, the open- ing between the two veffels on fome occa- lions continues pervious after the external orifice in the vein is clofed, fo as to produce a direcft communication between the one and the other; and the vein in this man- ner receiving the full force of the arterial pulfation, at the fame time that its coats are not pofTeffed of a firmnefs fufEcient to refift it, a fwelling of the vein comes of courfe to be produced. In all fuch inftances, moderate preffure, we may readily fuppofe, muft be of very great ufe, by ferving as a fupport to the diftended vein, and by thus preventing any farther increafe of its bulk; but in no other fwelling arihng H 3 fromn8 Of Blood-letting, Chap. Ill, from blood effiifed from an artery can prelTure be of any ufe; on the contrary indeed, for the reafons already enumerated, there is great caufe for fufpe6ling that it has frequently done much mifchief. When we are rendered quite certain that an ar- tery has been opened, and that the tumor produced by it is owing to blood collected in thecellular membrane around it, if keep- ing the limb in an eafy relaxed poftur.e, and the veins perfedHy free from prefTure, to- gether with the other means formerly pointed out, do not prevent a farther in- creafe of the fwelling, no other mode of treatment with which we are acquainted will have much influence. The tumor flill continuing, by the com- munication between it and the artery be- ing conftantly kept up, and none of the means employed for its difperfion having any influence, the diforder in that date is to be confidered as forming a fpecies of aneurifm, an ailment of which we will |;reat more particularly afterwards. SEC-U9 Sedl. IV. Of Blood-letting. SECTION IV. Of Wounds or Pricks in the Nerves and Tendons. T HE diforder we have now been de- fcribing, 'viz. wounds of the arteries, as well as fimilar afFe<5lions of the tendons, ought never to happen in the hands of a furgeon who pretends to any tolerable de- gree of fteadinefs; for, as the arteries and tendons are both parts which previous to the operation may be eafily didinguifhed by the finger, fo as that their fituation may be afcertained with exatTnefs, it mu(t al- ways be the fault of the furgeon, if the point of his lancet is not fo dire(5i:ed as to avoid them. One principal caufe of fuch accidents occurring in blood-letting, is, as we have already iliown, the ordinary prac- tice of depreffing the point of the lancet, after it has entered the cavity of the vein. This, however, we have demonftrated to be always unneceffary, and in many in- ftances to be productive of very pernici- ous effects. But although, by proper at- H 4 ' tentionOf Blood-letting. Chap. IIL 120 tendon to this part of the operation, we may always with certainty avoid the ar- teries and tendons ; yet it may be faid, that the nerves, which in general are fo fmall as not to be previoufly diftinguifhed, run at all times a great rifk of being wounded, and that the accidents which now and then occur from wounded nerves, are well known to be produ6dve of as dreadful con- fequences as have ever fucceeded to the ope- ration of blood-letting. But although the nerves from the fmall* nefs of their fize cannot previoufly be di- ftingullhed by the fingers ; yet, if fufiicient attention be given to the diredlion of the point of the lancet, fo as to avoid with certainty carrying the inftrument through the back part of the vein, the fame means which tend to fecure the arteries and ten- dons, will with almoft equal furenefs prove a fafeguard to the nerves: For, if the ope- rator enters his lancet, as he ought always to do, on the fuperior part of the vein, and if he does not cut the vein entirely acrofs by pufliing the lancet through to the op^ politeSe(5l. IV. Of Blood-letting. I2I polite fide of it, he can never run any rifle of wounding the contiguous nerves : for thefe, though they run fo near to the veins, yet either lie immediately below them, or at lead: are fituated fo far down upon their fides as to be out of all rifle of being wounded, if the lancet is made to enter where it ought to do; and it mufl always be the furgeon’s fault if the inftru- ment is pufhed out at the oppofite fide of a vein. I may venture to affert, that no inconvenience of this kind ever hap- pens, fr6m the wound made by a lancet in entering the anterior part of a vein: It is always on the oppofite fide of the vein that any mifehief of this kind is produced, when the lancet, as we have already ob- ferved, is pufhed entirely through; which it never ought to be, and which every furgeon ought to have fteadinefs enough to prevent. But although a very ordinary degree of caution would eafily prevent every occur- rence of this nature; and although, when accidents of this kind do-happen, the fur-^ geon122 Of Blood-letting, Chap. III. geon is almofl in every inflance to blame; yet experience has on different occafions evinced, that, either from the want of at- tention, or from the operator not being poffeffed of a fufEcient degree of fteadinefs, however eafily fuch inconveniences ought to be prevented, yet ftill they do frequent- ly occur. Nerves, and even tendons, are fometimes pricked; and the dreadful train of fymptoms which fuch accidents com- monly produce is almofl: inevitable. It fometimes happens immediately on the introdudion of the lancet, that the pa- tient complains of a mofh exquifite degree of pain; and when this occurs, we may reft affured that either a nerve or tendon has been wounded. On fome occafions, by proper management, fuch as evacuating a confiderable quantity of blood at the ori- fice newly made, by keeping the part at perfecft reft, and preferving the patient in as cool a ftate as poffible, the pain at firft complained of will gradually abate, and at laft go off entirely without any bad confe- quence whatever. AtSe£l.lV. Of Blood-letting, 121 At other times, however, this pain which occurs inftantaneoufly on the introdu(5lion of the lancet, inftead of abating, begins foon to increafe ; a fullnefs, or fmall degree of fwelling, takes place in the parts contiguous to the wound; the lips of the fore become ' fomewhat hard and inflamed ; and in the courfe of about twenty-four hours from the operation, a thin watery ferum begins to be difcharged at the orifice. If, by the means employed, relief is not foon obtained, thefe fymptoms generally continue in nearly the fame ftate, for two, or perhaps three days longer. At this time the violent pain which at firft took place be« comes flill more diftrefling; but inftead of being fharp and acute as before, it is now attended with the fenfation of a burning heat, which ftill goes on to increafe, and proves during the whole courfe of the ail- ment a fource of conftant diftrefs to the patient. The fullnefs and hardnefs in the lips of the wound begin to increafe, and the fwelling in the neighbouring parts gradually extends over the whole member j from ■ r124 Of Blood-letting. Chap. III. from the foot upwards over the thigh, when,the operation has been done in the lower extremity; and from the elbow down the fore-arm, and along the hume- rus over to the pedtoral mufcle and other contiguous parts, when the accident has occurred at the ufual place of blood-letting in the arm. The parts at laffc become exceedingly tenfe and hard; an eryfipelatous inflam- matory colour frequently appears over the whole member; the pulfe by this time has generally become very hard and quick; the pain is now intenfe, the patient ex- ceedingly reftlefs; twitchinge of the ten- dons occur to a greater or lefler degree; on fome occafions, a locked jaw and other convulfive affe^lions fupervene; and, all, thefe fymptoms continuing to increafe, it moft frequently happens, that the fuffer- ings of the unfortunate patient are termi- nated by death only. Blood-letting, from being, fo very gene- rally pra(5lifed, may by many be confi- dfired as an operation by no means either fo12 S Sedl. IV. Of Blood-letting, fo difficult in execution, or fo dreadful in its confequences, as is here reprefented. Such inflances indeed are not to be confi- dered as frequent occurrences ; but they happen often enough to convince us of the neceffity of very great caution in this ope- ration. In the courfe of my experience I have known feveral inftances where the confequences of blood-letting have proved fatal, and the dreadful train of fymptoms we have already enumerated uniformly occurred in all of them. Different opinions have prevailed re- fpe(5tlng the caufe of thefe fymptoms : By fome they have been imputed to wounds of the tendons; and by others the tendons are fuppofed to be fo entirely deftitute of fenfibility, as to be quite incapable of pro- ducing fo much diflrefs ; fo that wounds of the nerves they confider in all fuch oc- calions as the true caufe of the various fymptoms we have mentioned. On one or the other of thefe fuppofi- tions- the various phenomena which occur in this diforder have been explained, till aI 126 Of Blood-letting, Chap. Ill, a different dpinioti was at laft fuggefted by the ingenious Mr John Hunter of London. Mr Hunter fuppofes, that all the fymptoms thus induced by the opera- tion of blood-lettings may be more rea- dily accounted for, from an inflamed Hate of the internal furface of the vein, than from any other caufe. Such a flate of the vein he has often traced in horfes that have died of fuch fymptoms from venaefedion, where the internal coat of the vein was always found much in- flamed, not only in the neighbourhood of the part where the orifice was made; but on fome occafions the inflammation ex- tended along the whole courfe of the vein, and feemed at laft to reach the heart it- felf. Some inftances too have occurred, of the fame appearances in the human body, where the veins after death were found in a ftate of high inflammation. And on other occafions, inflammation having in this manner been once excited, has been known to terminate in fuppu- ration; and the matter thus produced, i being127 Se(fl. IV. Of Blood-letting, being in the courfe of circulation carried to the heart, Mr Hunter fuppofes that in fuch cafes death may have been induced by that caufe alone. There can be no reafon to doubt the fa(5l held forth by Mr Hunter, that in fuch inftances, the vein in which the orifice has been made, has frequently after death been found greatly inflamed: But how- ever ingenious his arguments may be, for concluding that this ftate of the vein is the original caufe of all the bad fymptoms enumerated; and although we muft allow, that fach an inflammatory afiedlion of a vein mull; have a conflderable influence in aggravating the various fymptoms previ- oufly induced by other caufes ; yet I think vve may very fairly conclude, that it could not probably in any one inftance be able to account in a fatisfadlory manner for their firfl; produdlion. In all the inftances of this dreadful com- plaint which I have had an opportunity of feeing, the patient at the very inftant o£^ the operation felt a very unufual degree of128 Of Blood-ktiifig, CIi^p. IIL of pain. In fbme cafes, the violence of the pain was almoft infupportable. Now this we can never fuppofe to have been produced by the mere pundture of a vein; for altho’ the coats of veins are not perhaps entirely deftitute of feeling, yet we know well, that they are not endowed with fuch a degree of fenlibility as to render it probable fuch iii- tenfe pain could ever be induced by their being pundfured in any way whatever. This inflamed flate of the veins therefore, as detedled by Mr Hunter after death, muft be confidered rather as being produced by, than as being produdlive of, fuch affec- tions ; and that fuch ailments fliould fre- quently produce an inflammation of the contiguous veins, is a very probable con- jedlure. In the courfe of about forty-eight hours from the operation, when the febrile fymptoms are juft commencing, fuch a degree of hardnefs and evident inflam- mation is induced over all the parts con- tiguous to the orifice, that it would be furprifing indeed, if the vein, which is thus perhaps entirely furrounded with i partsSedl. IV, Of Blood-letting, 129 parts highly inflamed, fliould not be in- flamed likewifc. We fliall therefore proceed upon the fuppofltion of this inflamed ftate of the veins being a confequence, rather than the caufe, of fuch ailments; and of courfe we now revert to one or other of the opinions long ago adopted on this fubje^ft, that all the train of bad fymptoms found on fome occafions to fucceed to venasfecflion, pro- ceed either from the wound of a nerve or of a tendon. That a partial wound of a nerve will now and then produce very diftrefling fymptoms, no pra(5litioner will deny : But it has been attempted to be fhown, as we have already remarked, that tendons are almoft totally deftitute of fenfibility; and it has therefore been fuppofed, that their being wounded, can never account for the various fymptoms known to occur in fuch cafes. There is great reafon, however, to think, that in different inflances the fame train of fymptoms have been induced by different Yol. I. 1 caufesja 30 Of Blood-letting. Ghap. IIL caufes ; that in one inflance a wounded nerve, and in others pricks of the tendons, have given rife to them. Being decidedly of this opinion myfelf, I think every perfon inufl be fo, who has paid much attention to the fubjedl:; but as the fame method of treatment proves equally applicable, whe- ther the difeafe has originated from the wound of a nerve or of a tendon, we do not think it neceffary to enter here into a more minute difcuffion of the queftion. Havino; alreadv in a former fedlion fhown how fuch accidents may be almofl always avoided, we fliall now proceed to confider the means belt calculated for preventing the fymptoms coming to a great height, when it is difcovered that either from in- advertence or any other caufe the mifchief has adiually happened. Whenever a patient at the time of the operation complains of a very exquifite degree of pain, we may always be certain that fome parts have been wounded which ought not to have been touched. When this unfortunately happens, if proper atten- tionSed. IV. Of Blood-htthg. T31 tion be given immediately, much may be done to obviate the acceffion of thofe fymp- toms which fuch a caufe will otherwife certainly induce. Ill order therefore to prevent as much as poffible the confequent inflammation and other fymptoms which ufually enfue, a confiderable quantity of blood fliould be immediately difcharged at the orifice juft made 3 the limb, for feveral days at leafl, ought to be kept in a ftate of perfedt reft, care being at the fame time taken that the mufcles of the part be all preferved in as relaxed a ftate as poftible; the patient fhould be kept cool; on a low diet; and, if neceflary, gentle laxatives ought to be adminiftered. By fuch management alone, the fatal fymptoms w”e have enumerated, may fre- quently be prevented ; and when they do occur in cafes where the above precau- tions have not been taken, they may be confidered to be as much the confequence of negligence in the fubfequent treatment, I 2 - as^3^ Blood-letting, Chap. Ilh; as of any thing peculiarly bad in the na- ture of the original accident. When notwithftanding, however, of the means recommended, the fymptoms, in- ftead of diminifhing, rather become more violent, if the lips of the orifice turn hard and more inflamed, if the pain becomes more confiderable, and efpecially if the fwelling begins to fpread, other remedies come then to be indicated. In this flate of the complaint, topicaj blood-letting, by means of leeches applied as near as poffible to the lips of the wound, frequently affords much relief; and when the pulfe is full and quick, it even becomes neceffary to eva- cuate large quantities of blood by open- ing a vein in fome other part. The external applications ufually em- ployed in this ftate of the complaint, are, warm emollient fomentations and poultices, and in fimilar affe(ftions of other parts no remedies with which we are acquainted would probably be found more fuccefsful;^ for as warm fomentations and cataplafms tend in general very powerfully to promote the■Seel. IV. Of Blood-letting', the formation of pus, and as nothing would fo certainly relieve the fymptoms which ufually occur here* as a free fuppuration, applications of this nature were made there- fore with fome apparent propriety : But from all the experience I have had in af- ' fe6lions of this kind fucceeding to blood- letting, I am now perfecflly convinced, that little or no advantage is ever to be ex- pecfled from remedies of this clafs. On the idea of being able to induce a free and kindly fuppuration on the wound, and ha- ving great reafon to think, from its elfecfls in fimilar cafes, that all the fymptoms would be thereby rendered more mild, I mufh own that in feveral cafes I went into the ufe of applications of this kind to the greateft poflible degree. Unfortunately, however, the advantages refulting from them never anfwered my expeflations; fb that at laft I was induced to make trial of a very different fet of remedies. Although, at the time of thus ufing ap- plications of the warm emollient kind, I ,did cot attend particularly to the caufe of I 3 theiy. Of Blood-letting. Chap. III. 134 their failure, yet'I now think that this cir- cumftance may be very eafily accounted for. The parts here principally concerned being almoft entirely membranous, and being therefore, as we have elfevv^here fliown *, incapable of yielding purulent matter, a continued courfe of warm ap- plications, inftead of producing the wiflied for eifecl, muft in all probability rather thid to aggravate all the fymptoms ; for when fuch remedies do not induce a free fuppuration, the heat they convey to the parts, by acling as a perpetual flimulus, muft rather tend to increafe the inflamma- tion : And in fact we find, in the com- plaint 'now under confideration, that all fuch applications, inftead of being produc- tive of any advantage, rather do harm. The heat of the part is here one of the moft diftrefung fymptoms ; fo that, inftead of aflbrding relief, warm emollient applica- tions rather tend to augment this very tor- menting fource of uneafinefs. The lips of the * Vide Treatife on Inflammation and its confe* quences.Se6l.IV. Of Blood-letting, 135 the wound, from not being capable of pro- ducing a good fuppuration, are, by the ad- ditional heat .applied to them through the medium of fuch applications, rendered ftili more hard, fwelled, and of courfe more painful, and the fvvelling of the contiguous parts alfo becomes more diffufed over the reft of the member. By Ambrofe Pare, Dionis, Heifler, and others, inflead of emollient remedies, oil of turpentine, tinflure of myrrh, and other heating applications, are recommended. That thefe would not prove effe(ftual, I cannot from experience pretend to fay; for, fufpe<5ting their powerful ftimulating elFedls might in cafes of this nature prove too irritating,, for parts already by difeafe rendered exquiiitely fenfible, I have never ventured to ufe them : But I can from repeated experience affert, that cooling aflringent applications, afford much more eafe, and upon the whole, in all fuch ail- ments, prove much more effedlual, than warm emollients ; and of this clafs the mofl effectual I have ever ufed, are the fa- I 4 turnine136 of Blood-letting, Chap. III. turnine applications. The parts chiefly afFecfted being alternately covered with cloth's wet with a folution of faccharum faturni, and pledgits fpread with Gou- lard’s cerate, are kept more cool and eafy than by any other remedy I have ever hap- pened to ufe. In all fuch cafes, therefore, as foon as a number of leeches proportioned to the violence of the fymptoms have been ap- plied to the parts chiefly affected, and have difcharged a fufficient quantity of blood, the fvveliing ought to be covered with pieces of foft linen wet in the faturnine folution ; and thefe being kept conftantly moift for the fpace of a few hours, fhould be fuccecded by Goulard’s cerate; and thus every part in any degree affedled, ought to be alternately covered with one or other of thefe applications, as long as any degree of fwelling remains. The febrile fymptoms which occur, muff at the fame time be attended to, by keep- ing the patient cool; on a low diet; prefer- ying a lax ftate of the bowels; and, if ne- ceffary^Se(5l. IV. Of Blood-letting, 1^37 cefTary, farther quantities of blood ought to be evacuated. For the violence of the pain, which is fometimes fo exceffive as to deftroy the patient’s reft entirely, opiates ought to be freely exhibited ; and when twitchings of the tendons and other convuHive fymptoms fupervene, medicines of this kind become ftill more particularly neceflary. In order, however, to have a proper influence in this ftate of the complaint, opiates ought to be given in very full dofes; otherwife, inftead of anfwering any good purpofe, they con- ftantly tend to aggravate the different fymp- toms, not only by increafing the heat and reftleffnefs, but by having an evident in- fluence in rendering the fyftem more fuf- ceptlble than it was before of the pain and other diftreffmg effedls produced upon it by the wound : Whenever opitates there- fore are in fuch circumftances employed, the dofes ought always to be confiderable. It often happens, however, in this very alarming diforder, either from negledling the matter altogether on the accident firfl happening^Of Blood-letting. Chap. III. 138 happening, as is too frequently the cafe, or from an improper fubfequent treatment by warm emollient applications, that opi- ates and all the other remedies enumera- ted are afterwards ufed without any ad- vantage whatever: The fever, pain, and f'vvelling of the parts continuing, convul- five affedlions of the mufcles at laffc oc- cur; all tending to indicate the mofl im- minent danger. In this lituation, if we have not immediate recourfe to fome ef- feduai means, the patient will foon fall a vidim to the diforder; and the only re- medy from which much real advantage is to be expeded, is 2. free and extenfi've dl- vfton of the parts in which the orifice producing all the mifchief was at firft made. We know well from the repeated experience of ages, that much more pain and diftrefs of every kind is commonly produced by the partial divifion either of a nerve or of a tendon, than from any of thefe parts being at once cut entirely acrofs. Now, the intention of the opera- tion here recommended, is, to produce a completeSe6l. IV. Of Blood-letting, *39 complete divifion of the nerve or tendon we fuppofe to have been wounded by the point of the lancet, and which we confi- der as the foie caufe of all the fublcquent diftrefs. The operation now recommended being attended with a good deal of pain, and be- ing put in practice for the removal of fymp- toms from which it is perhaps difficult to perfuade the patient that much danger is to be apprehended, all the remedies we have mentioned fliould be firft made trial of be- fore it is propofed: But at the fame time, care ought to be taken, that the diforder be not allowed to proceed too far before we haverecourfe to it; for if the patientfliould be previoufly much weakened by the feve- riffifymptoms having continued violent for any length of time, neither the remedy now propofed, nor any other with which we are acquainted, would probably have much influence. As foon therefore as the courfe already preferibed has been fairly tried, and is found to be inadequate to the ef- fedls expected from it, we ought imme-» diatelyOf Blood-letting, Ghap. Ill, 1^0 diately to have recourfe to a free divlfion of the parts chiefly aflPedled; and the man- ner of doing it is this. As all the contiguous parts are nowfup- pofed to be much fwelled and in a ftate of high inflammation, it is impoflible to get proper accefs either to the nerve or tendon, but by means of a large and extenfive in- cifion; and as this cannot be effedled "with- out fome rilk, of opening at leaft fome large branches of arteries, the firfl; ftep to be taken in this operation is, to fecure the parts, againft the effedls of fuch an occur- rence, by the application of the tourniquet on the fuperior part of the member. This precaution is neceflary, not only for guard- ing againft the lofs of blood which would enfue from a divifion of any of the large arteries, but for preventing that interrup- tion which would otherwife be occafioned by a conftant difcharge of blood from the fmaller veflTels during the operation. The tourniquet indeed is more particularly re- quifite with a view to the prevention of this laft inconvenience, than for any other reafon;Sedl. IV. Of Blood-lettings reafon; for although It is proper by means of it to guard againft the effedls to be ex- pedled from a divihon of any of the large arteries, yet with proper caution fuch an occurrence may in moft cafes be very eafily avoided. The tourniquet then, being properly ap- plied, a tranfverfe incilion fhould be made with a common fcalper"^, upon the parts chiefly affedled, and it ought to run in a direction exafUy acrofs the original ori- fice in the vein. In every furgical operation, raflinefs is undoubtedly improper, and is often pro- ducflive of difagreeable confequences ; but unneceflary caution, which almofl: con- flantly proceeds from the operator being inaccurate and confufed in his ideas of the anatomy of the parts, generally produces fuch a, degree of timidity, as ultimately proves more hurtful to the patient, than even an unufual degree of boldnefs ; for in every operation where an incifion is neceflary, if the firlt cut is not made fully fufficient * For the mofi: proper form of a fcalpel, fee Plate IV,142 Of Blood-letting, Chap. III. fufEcient for the intended purpofe, all the fubfequent fteps of it are commonly either much retarded, or perhaps rendered en- tirely inelfe(5lual. In no operation whatever, is it more ne- cellary than in this, to adl with proper freedom in laying the parts fufficiently open by the external incifion. A fmall in- cifion puts the patient to nearly the fame degree of pain as a larger cut; and it has this material inconvenience, that the fur- geon cannot go on with the future fteps of the operation, with fo much eafe and ex- pedition as when an extenflve opening is made at firft. The external teguments being thus freely divided, the operator is now to proceed in a gradual manner, making one flight in- cifion after another, taking care, if pof- fible, to avoid wounding either the larger arteries or veins;, and he is to go on in this way, to endeavour to deteeft the wounded nerve; or if there is no pofTibility of doing fo, even by great caution and nicety in wiping away with a fpunge every particle 3Sedl. IV. Of Blood-letting, of blood as he goes along, he muft flill continue to proceed in this flow gradual manner, till he has divided every part be- tween the fliin and periofteum ; the ten- dons, larger arteries, and veins, excepted. At this time the tourniquet fhould be loofened; and in all probability, the pa- tient will be found to exprefs much fatif- fa(!dion at what has been done : For, if the part is thus divided which originally had been pricked by the lancet, and from whence all the fubfequent diflrefs pro- ceeded, an immediate relief will now be obtained ; but on the contrary, if the pain ftill continues violent, we are thereby ren- dered almoft certain that the mifchief lies altogether in one or other of the tendons. An accurate examination, therefore, mull now be made, by clearing the parts effec- tually with a fpunge; and that tendon ly- ing moft contiguous to the vein in which the orifice was made, will in all probabi- lity be found either wounded, or in an evident ftate of inflamrhation; but at all events, whether any fuch appearances are detedled144- Blood-letting, Chap. Ill, detedled or not, no hefitation whatever fhould occur as to the propriety of divi- ding that tendon which lies mofb contiguous to the vein ; or if two or even three tendi- nous extremities fliould happen to lie in the way, and to be all therefore equally liable to fufpicion, they ought all un- doubtedly to be cut entirely acrofs; and this being properly elFecfted, it will feldom happen that relief is not immediately de- rived from it: And at any rate, this be- ing done, every attempt will have been made from w^hich we could expefl any benefit. The parts having been thus freely divi- ded, the tourniquet muft now be made as flack as poffible; and fuch arteries as have been wounded muft be properly fecured. The parts are then to be covered with foft eafy dreffings, and to be afterwards treated in the fame manner as a wound from any other caufe. The remedy here recomniended, if every circumflance is not duly attended to, may probably be confidered as fevere j for fuch 3 anSc(5t. IV. Of Blood-ktthig, 145 an incifion carried to fuch a depth, muO: no doubt be attended with much pain ; and the divifion of one or more tendons runs a confiderable rilk of producing at lead a partial lamenefs, and that too proba- bly for life, of the whole member: But if we confider for a moment the importance of the object in view, every confideration of this kind mull immediately lofe all weight. It is not a trifling advantage we are in pur- fuit of, nor can fuch a painful operation be ever with propriety recommended except in very urgent circumftances. In the prefent inftance, however, it is clear that the pa- tient’s life is in all probability to depend oii the event of this operation ; fo that the mod timid operator, if he is at all capable of rededlion, mud admit the propriety of putting it in pradlice; and from the event of almod every cafe of this nature, that has once advanced to the length for which we have recommended the operation in quedion, it may with great certainty be pronounced^ that every patient in fuch circumdances is in the utmod hazard of his life; fo that in VoL. I. K fuch14^ ' Of Blood-lettingi Chap. Ill* fuch a defperate fituation, no remedy that affords any tolerable chance of a recovery^ however painful it may be, can with pro- priety be condemned. From reafoning alone, we would readily conclude, that in all fuch circumftances no remedy whatever would more probably prove fuccefsful than the operation we have now advifed; but when the pro- priety of the meafure is enforced by the fuccefsful iffue of repeated trials, no argu- ment adduced againft it ought to meet with much attention. In different occurences of this kind, of lefs importance, I have feen much advantage enfue from the pracflice here recommended; but in one inftance, where the patient had been blooded in the median cephalic vein of the arm, the dif- order had got to fuch a height, and had fo obftinately refilled every ocher remedy, that there was every reafon to fuppofe death muft have enfued, had it not been for the effe(5ls of a free and very deep in- cifion made into the parts affe<5ted. The patient, from beings evidently in very great hazard,jScel. IV; Of Bhod-ldtinf» 147 hazard, and in exquifite pain, experienced almoft inflantaneous relief; and the fwell^ ing, which had previonfly refifted the ef- fedls of every other remedy, and had even continued to fpread, began foon to abate, and a perfedl recovery was obtained in a much fliorter fpace of time than could have been expelled. There is not therefore a point in fur- gery that I am more fatisfied of, than, the propriety of fuch an operation in all fuch defperate cafes as the one we have been treating of; but to fuch as have not happened to meet with occurences of this nature, the remedy propofed will not only appear to be too violent for the difeafe, but they will alfo be induced to confider the length of difcuffion here gone into to be much more prolix than is necelTary ; Afin- gle infhance, however,of the dreadful fymp- toms now and then induced by accidents of this kind, will be fully fufEcient to con- vince any man, that the fubje6t now un- der confideration is perhaps one of the mod important in the department of furgery. K 2 All148 Of Blood-letting. Chap. III. All that has hitherto been faid on blood- letting relates to the operation in general: We fliall now proceed to conlider the ope- ration as it is put in pra(5tice in particular parts; and firfl of blood-letting in the arm. SECTION V. Of Blood-letting in the Arm. gLOOD-LETTiNG is more frequently pradlifed on the fore-part of the arm at the joint of the elbow, than in any other part of the body. The veins are in general more confpicuous in this place; but no other reafon can be affigned for this prefe- rence : On the contrary, the near contiguity of nerves, tendons, and of large arteries, to thefe veins, makes the operation more ha- zardous here than in any other part. From this circumftance, therefore, 1 have often been induced to confider the fixing on this part for the ordinary operation of blood- letting, as a very capital error; and the more efpecially as blood may be drawn from veins in other parts with the fame ^ eafeSe(fl. V. Of Blood-letting, 149 eafe as from tliofe of the arm, and with much lefs danger; particularly from the veins of the neck, from thofe of the under part of the legs, ankles, and feet. Blood-letting in the lower extremities has indeed in general been confined to a particular fet of diforders ; chiefly to thofe of females : But no good reafon, I imagine, can be afligned for this; for it is now well known, that, in general blood-letting the place from whence the blood is drawn, is of little importance, and that the eflfecfls of the operation depend almofl folely upon the quantity of blood that is difcharged in a longer or fliorter fpace of time. Blood-letting at the arm may be fafely performed by a furgeon of fteadinefs and attention, as in the hands of fuch a man there can be little or no rifk of the lancet going deeper than the vein, and in this cafe nothing bad can enfue: But, in or- dinary practice, I fhould at all times rather incline to have the operation done in fome other part. It may almofl; always be done with eafe in the feet and ankles ; and if the K 3 operation^5° Of Blood-letting. Chap. III. operation is properly performed, the fame quantity of blood may be drawn from the veins of thefe parts, as from veins of an equal fize in any other part of the body. But whether the idea now fuggefted fhould ever be generally adopted or nor, this is fo far evident, that if the cautions we have pointed out are proper on every occafion when vennsfefUon is pra6lifed,they are necelTarily much more fo when the ope- ration is done in the arm, where the veins lie fo very contiguous to parts which can- not be wounded without producing very alarming fymptoms. Having already confidered with minute- nefs the various fteps of the operation of blood-letting, fo far as they relate to it in a general way ; in order to avoid repeti- tions, nothing will be now pointed out but what is particularly required in perform- ing this operation in the arm. In applying theligature for the Iloppage of the circulation, it ought to be placed about an inch or an inch and half above the joint of the elbow j and, in order to preventSed. V. Of Blood-letting, 15 j prevent the ends of it from interfering with the lancet, the knot fhould be made on the outfide of the arm. In general, one knot might anfwer; but a flip-knot being made above the firfl, renders it more fecure, and it is very eaflly done. In making choice of a vein from whence blood is to be taken, the general rules we have already laid down upon this point muft be here particularly attended to. That vein which appears moft confplcu- ous, at the fame time that it rolls leafl: under the fldn, fhould in general be fixed upon; but when an artery is found to lie immediately below, and quite contiguous to fuch a vein, the operator, if he is not perfedlly fatisfied with his own fteadinefs, ought rather to take fome other. In ge- neral, however, the artery lies fo low in this place, that the median bafilic vein, under which it commonly runs, may be opened with perfedl fafety; and as this vein in general appears more confpicuous than any of the others, probably from the con- tinued pulfation of the artery below ob- K 4 ' ftrudingOf Blood-letting. C^ap. Ill, ?52 flruding in fome rneafnre the paffage of its contents, it is for this reafcn therefore to be made choice of rather than any of the reft. Other circumftances occur too, which render the median bafilic prefer- able to the cephalic or median cephalic veins for the operation of blood-letting. The former, viz. the median bafilic, is lefs deeply covered with cellular fubftance» and by lying towards the inner part of the arm it is more thinly covered with the tendinous expanfion of the biceps mufcle, than either of the others. From thefe circumftances the operation is always attended with lefs pain when done in this vein than in any of the others ; and that confideration alone ought to have a good deal of influence in determining the choice of an operator. In blood-letting at this part of the arm, although the operation may be done with the right hand either upon the right or left arm of the patient; yet it is much more neatly done by performing with the right hand upon the right arm, and.153 Se6l. V. ' Of Bloody-letting, and with the left hand upon the left arm of the patient; and whoever attempts the contrary, muft find that it cannot be done but in a very aukward manner, as the operator can never in any other way apply his hand properly to the patient’s veins. In very corpulent people, it fometimes ' happens, that all the larger veins lie fo deep as not to be difcovered by the eye; but when they are fenfibly felt by the fingers, even although they cannot be feen, they may be always opened with freedom. In a few inflances, however, it is the cafe, that they can neither be diltinguifhed by the eye, nor by the finger: In fuch a fituation, as they may in general be met with about the wrift, or on the back part of the hand, the ligature fliould be removed from the upper part of the arm; and being applied about half-way between the elbow and wrift, the veins below will thereby be brought into view; and wherever a vein can be evidently obferved, there can be no danger in having recourfe to the ope-» ption. SEC-’^54 Of Blood-letthig, Chap. Ill, SECTION VI. Of Blood-letting in the Jugular Vein. JpOR inflammation of the throat, difor- ders of the eyes, and other aflfedtions of the head, when it is wifhed to evacuate blood from veflels near to the parts affec- ted, it is frequently judged proper to open the external jugular veins j and the man- ner of doing the operation is this. There is only one ramification of this vein, viz. its principal pofterior branch, which can eafily be brought fo much into view, as to be with propriety opened; and even this lies deeply covered with parts, not only with the fkin and cellular fub- ftance, but with the fibres of the platifma myoides mufcle, fo that a confiderable degree of preflTure becomes neceflTary in order to raife it to any height. With a view to produce this, the operator’s thumb is commonly advifed to be placed upon ?:he vein, fo as to comprefs it effectually about an inch or inch and half below where theSeifl.yi. of Blood-letting. the opening is to be made. This,-how-- ever, feldom proves fufficient for the pur-^ pofe, as the blood, on being flopped in its pfogrefs through this branch, eafily finds a paflage to the ocher veins ; fo that un- lefs the principal vein on the other fide of the neck be alfo comprefTed, the vein to be opened can never be fully diftended. In order to diftend it fufficiently, g, firm com- prefs of linen fhould be applied on the lar- geft vein on the oppofite fide of the neck; and an ordinary garter, or any other pro- per ligature, being laid diredlly over it, fliould be tied with a firm knot below the oppofite arm-pit; taking care to make fuch a degree of preffure, as to put an entire flop to the circulation in the vein, which in this way it is eafy to do without pro- ducing any obflrudlion to the patient’s breathing. This being done, and the patient’s head fieing' properly fupported, the operator, with the thumb of his left-hand, is now to make a fufficient preffure upon the vein lj;o be opened, and with the lancet in his right-156 Of Blood-letting, Chap. Ill, right-hand is to penetrate at once into the vein j and, before withdrawing the inftru- ment, an orifice fliould be made large enough for the intended evacuation. It may be proper to obferve, that a more ex- tenfive opening ought always to be made here than is neceffary in the arm, other- wife the quantity of blood is generally procured with difficulty : And befides, there is not the fame neceffity for caution, on this point here that there is in the arm: for it feldom or never happens, that any difficulty occurs in this fituation, in put- ting a flop to the blood after the preffure is removed from the veins; all that is com- monly neceffary for this purpofe being a flip of adhefive plafler, without any ban- dage whatever. In order to bring the vein more clearly into view, fo as afterwards to be able to open it with more exaclnefs, it has been directed, that the fkin, cellular fubftance, and mufcular fibres covering the vein, fhould be previoufly divided with a fcal- pel before attempting to pufh the lan- cet*57 Sedl.VII. Of Blood-letting, cet into it. There is not, however, any necefTity for this precaution, as it rarely happens that any difficulty is experienced in procuring a free difeharge of blood by opening the vein and teguments at once in the manner directed: And it is here, as in every inftance where it is neceffary to take blood by a lancet, if it be not done at once, the patient is much difappointed, and is fure to attribute the failure entirely to a fault in the operator. SECTION VII. Of Blood-letting In the Ankles and Feet, has already been faid on the operation of blood-letting, renders it quite unneceffary to be here in any de- gree minute. When blood is to be dif- charged from the veins of thefe parts, it will be readily underftood, that the firll ftep to be taken is a proper compreffion of the veins, fo as to produce an accumula- tion of their contents. The ligature for this purpofe being applied wdth a fufficient degreex jS Of Blood-letting, Cliap. degree of tightnefs a little above the ankle- joint, all the branches of the vena faphena, both in the infide and outfide of the foot, come at once into view ; and as this vein lies everywhere very fuperficial, being in general covered with Ikin only, where- ever a proper vein appears coiifpicuoufly it may with fafety be opened. With a view to encourage the difcharge of bloodj it has been a conftant pradlice in blood-letting in thefe veins, to dip the feet into warm water immediately on the orifice being made. But this is a very inaccurate method of proceeding, as the quantity of blood taken in this manner can never be afcertained with precifion ; for the blood being all mixed with the Wa- ter, the operator can never be in any de- gree certain as to this point: And befides, there does not appear to be any neceffity for this affiftance; for, when the compref- fion of the fuperior part of the veins is made effectual, and the orifice is of a pro- per fize, I never found more difiiculty in obtaining a full difcharge of blood from 3Se<5t. VII. Of Blood-letting, i the veins of thefe parts, than from any other veins of the body. On removing the ligature, the difcharge is generally flopped at once; fo that a piece of adliefive plafler applied over the orifice, anfwers all the purpofe of a ban- dage. Thefe are the feveral parts from whence blood is ufually taken by venasfedlion; but on fome occafions, where the contiguous parts have been particularly affedled, it has been thought advifable to open the veins of other parts, viz. thofe of the tongue, of the penis, the external hemorrhoidal veins, &c. When it is found neceffary to difcharge blood in this manner from the penis, the veins can be eafily brought into view by producing an accumulation of their contents in the fame manner as in other parts of the body, through the inter- vention of a ligature: But, in the tongue, in the hemorrhoidal veins about the anus, and other parts where compreffion cannot be applied, all that the furgeon can do, is, to make an orifice of a proper fize in that partj[5o Of Blood-letting, Chap. IIL part of the vein which fhows itfelf moft evidently ; and if a fufficient difcharge of blood is not thus produced, as there is no other method of elFeding it, immerfing the parts in warm water may in fuch circum- . fiances be a very neceflary raeafure. Having thus confidered the various modes of difcharging blood by venasfedion, we now proceed to arteriotomy. \ SECTION VIII. 0/ Arterictomy. "I^^^Hatever particular advantages may- in theory have been exped;ed from arteriotomy, and however fome of its fup- porters may in their clofets have recom- mended it, not only as being in many in- ftances preferable to vena;fe6lion, but as an operation perfecliy fafe even in vefl'els of confiderable f ze; yet the mod ftre- nuous friends to the pradlice, havefhrunk from attempting it on the larger arteries. Inftances have no doubt occurred of large arteries having been opened without any 3 dan-Seel. VIII. Of Blood-letth?g. i6i danger enfuing; but thefe are fo exceed- ingly rare, that no praefUtioner of expe- rience will be induced by them, delibe- rately, or from choice, to open any con- liderable artery. The fmaller branches of arteries may indeed be opened with great fafety when they are not deeply co- vered, and efpecially when they lie conti- guous to bones, as in fuch lituations, fo foon as the quantity of blood intended to be taken is difeharged, all farther lofs of blood may be very ealily prevented by comprelTion; but the opening of any of the larger arteries muft be always attended with fo much hazard, and the advantages to be expedled from it in preference to venaefedlion are apparently fo trifling, as muft in all probability prevent it from ever being carried into execution. There are very few arteries, therefore, which with any propriety can be opened; the different branches of the temporal are the only arteries indeed from whence blood in ordinary practice is ever taken: but, if a fanciful pradlitioner fhould at any time VoL. I. L in-S62 Of Blood-lelting^ Cliap. Ill, parts. incline to take blood in this manner from a different part, it may be done with great fafety from one of the arteries running on each fide of the fingers. About the middle of the lafl phalanx, this artery is fufHciently large for difcharging a confiderable quan- tity of blood ; in moft cafes it lies very fuperficial, and in this fituation there can feldom much difficulty occur in putting a flop to the evacuation. In performing this operation on any of the temporal branches, if the artery lies fuperficial, it may be done with one pufh of the lancet, in the fame manner as was directed for venaefedtion; but, when the artery lies deeply covered with cellular fubflance, it is always neceffary to lay it fairly open to view, before making the orifice with the lancet : For in all the fmaller arteries, when they are cut entirely acrofs, there is little chance of being able to procure any confiderable quantity of blood from them; as, when divided in this manner, they re- tra^fl Gonfiderably within the furroundingSedl.VIII. Of Blood-letting, 163 parts, which commonly puts a (lop to all farther evacuation. Some degree of nicety is alfo necelTary in making the opening into the artery, of a proper oblique dire<5lion, neither quite acrofs, nor dire(5Uy longitudinal; for a longitudinal opening never bleeds fo free- ly, either in an artery or in a vein, as when its direction is fomewhat oblique. If the opening has been properly made, and if the artery is of any tolerable fize, it will at once difcharge vei*y freely with- out any comprellion j but when the eva- cuation does not go on fo well as could be , wifhed, the difcharge may be always af- fifted by comprefTing the artery imme- diately above the orifice, between it and the correfponding veins. The quantity of blood being thus difcharged, it will com- monly happen, that a very flight compref- fiori on thefe fmaller arteries will fuflice for putting a flop to the evacuation: But any degree of prefiTure that is found necef- fary may be applied here as in vensefedlion, by means of a linen comprefs and roller; L 2 thei'o4 Of Blood-letting. Chap-. IlH the orifice being firfl; entirely cleared of blood, and properly covered with a bit of adhefive plafter. If that fhould not be found to anfwer, a comprefs of linen fliould be applied over it, the whole being then to be fecured with a roller. It happens, however, in fome inftances, that this does not fucceed, the orifice con- tinuing to burfi; out from time to time, fo jls to be produdlive of much diftrefs and inconvenience. In this fituation there are three different methods by which we may with tolerable certainty put a flop to the farther difcharge of blood. 17?, If the artery is fmall, as all the branches of the temporal arteries com- monly are, the cutting it entirely acrofs-, exactly at the orifice made .with the lan- cet, by allowing it to retradn; within the furrounding parts, generally puts an im- mediate flop to the difcharge. 2^/, When that is not confented to, we have it always in our power to fecure the bleeding veffel with a ligature, as we would do an artery aeeidentally divided in any part of the body.. 165 SeCl.VIII. Of Blood-letting. body. And, laflly, if neither of thefe me- thods is agreed to by the patient, we can, by means of a conftant regular prelTure, obliterate the cayity of the artery at the place where the operation has been per- formed, by producing an accretion of ite fides. Different bandages have been con- trived for compreffing the temporal artery, but none of them anfwer the purpofe fo eafily and fo effexflually as the one repre- fented in Plate VI. fig. 3. As fome time, however, is required to obliterate the cavity of the artery, this me- thod is accordingly more tedious; but to timid patients it generally proves more ac- ceptable than either of the other two. Having thus finifhed the confideration, of the various methods employed for eva- cuating blood from the larger arteries and veins, we now proceed to the confidera- tion of topical blood-letting. L 3 SEC-166 Of Blood-letting, Chap. III. S E C T I O N IX. Of Topical Blood-letting. when, either from the feverity of a local fixed pain, or from any ocher caufe, it is wifhed to evacuate blood di- redlly from the fmall veflels of the part affeded inftead of opening any of the lar- ger arteries or veins, the following are the different methods employed for effeding it, viz. By means of leeches j by flight fcarifications with the fhoulder or edge of a lancet; and, laflly, by means of an in- flruinent termed a Scarificator, contain- ing from one to twenty lancets or more, fixed in fuch a manner, that when the inflrument is applied to the part affeded, the whole number is by means of a fpring driven fuddenly into it, and to a greater or leffer depth at pleafure. This being done, as it is the fmaller blood- veffels only that by this operation are ever intended to be cut, and as thefe do not com-Se6l. IX. Of Blood-letting. 167 commonly difcharge freely, fome means or other become neceffary for promoting the evacuation. Various methods have been propofed for this purpofe. GlafTes fitted to the form of the affected parts, with a fmall hole in the bottom of each, were long ago contrived ; and thefe being placed upon, the fcarified parts, a degree of fudion was produced by a perfon’s mouth fufficienc for nearly exhaufting the air contained in the glafs : And this accordingly was a fure enough method of increafing the evacuation of blood to a certain extent But, as this was attended with a good deal of trouble, and befides did not on every occafion prove altogether effedual, an ex- haufting fyringe was at laft adapted to the glafs, which did indeed anfwer as a very certain methdd of extrading the air contained in it: But the application of this inftrument for any length of time is L 4 very * Cdfus, lib. 2. cap. i I.i68 Of Blood-letting. Chap. III. very troiiblefame j and it is difBcult to preferve the fyringe always air-tight. The application of heat to the cupping- glalTes, as they are termed, has been found to rarify the air contained in them to a degree fufficient for producing a very con- liderable fudlion. And as the inftrument in this fimple form anfwers the purpofe in view, with very little trouble to the ope- rator, and as it is at all times eaiily ob- tained, the ufe of the fyringe has there- fore been laid afide. The glafTes for this purpofe, it is evident, muft be entire; for if there is the leafl communication allowed between their cavities and the furrounding aimofphere, no effedl whatever will be pro-^ duced by them. There are different methods employed for thus applying heat to the cavity of the glafs. By fupporting the mouth of it for a few feccnds above the flame of a taper the air may be fufficiently rarified; but if the flame is not kept exacflly in the middle, but is allowed to touch either the fides or bottom of the glafs, it is very apt to make iti6g Sedl. IX. Of Blood-letting, k crack and fly in pieces. A more certain, as well as an eafier method of applying the heat, is to dip a piece of foft bibulous pa- per in fpirk of wine, and having fet it on Are, to put it into the bottom of the glafs, and, on its being nearly extinguifhed, to apply the mouth of the inftrument diredlly upon the fcarified part. This degree of heat., which may be always regulated by the flze of the piece of paper, and which it is evident ought to be always in propor- tion to the flze of the glafs, if long enough applied proves always fufiiclent for rarify- ing the air very effeiStually, and at the fame time, if done with any manner of caution, never injures the glafs in the leaft. The glafs having been thus applied, if the fcarifications have been properly made, they inftantly begin to difcharge freely ; and as foon as the inflrument is nearly full of blood, it fhould be taken away, which may be always eafily done by raifing one fide of it, fo as to give ac- cefs to the external air. When more blood is wiflied to be taken, the parts Ihould be bathed170 Of Blood-letting. Chap. III. bathed with warm water; and, being made perfedly dry, another glafs exactly of the lize of the former fhould be inftantly ap- plied in the very fame manner ; and thus, if the fcarificator has been made to pene- trate to a fuihcient depth, fo as to have cut all the cutaneous veffels of the part, almoft any neceffary quantity of blood may be obtained. It fometimes happens, how- ever, that the full quantity intended to be difcharged cannot be got at one place: In fuch a cafe, the fcarificator mufl be again applied on a part as contiguous to the other as poflible ; and this being done, the ap- plication of the glalTes mull alfo be renewed as before. When it is wifhed to difcharge the quantity of blood as quickly as poflible, two or more glafles may be applied at once on contiguous parts previoufly fcari- fied ; and on fome occafions, the quantity of blood is more quickly obtained when the cupping-glaflTes are applied for a few feconds upon the parts to be afterwards icarified. The fudion produced by the glalTesSedl. IX. Of Blood-letting, 171 glaffes may poffibly have fome influence in bringing the more deep-feated vefTels into nearer contadl with the Ikin, fo that more of them will be cut by thefcarificator. S. fuflicient quantity of blood being pro- cured, the wounds made by the different lancets fliould be all perfedlly cleared of blood ; and a bit of foft linen or charpie, dipped in a little milk or cream, applied over the whole, is the only drefling that is neceflary: When dry linen is applied, it not only creates more uneafinefs to the pa- tient, but renders the wounds more apt to fefter than when it has been previoufly wetted in the manner diredled. Although this operation is by no means diflicult in the execution, yet a good deal of pradlice is neceflary to perform it in a neat and fuccefsful manner; but with a little attention, any operator may foon be- come fo expert, as to be able to take any quantity of blood by it that can ever be neceflary. In fome cafes of local pains, and in others where fuppuration of the part has been wifhed5*72 Of Blood-letting. Chap. III. wifhed for, an operation termed dry-cup- ping has been propofed, and in fome in^- liances its advantages are faid to have pro- ved confiderable. This confifts in the ap- plication of the cupping-glafTes directly to the parts affecfled, without the ufe of the fcarificator. By this means a tumor is produced upon the part; and where any advantage is to be expelled from a de- termination of blood to a particular fpot, it may probably be more eafily accom- plidied by this means than by any other. In Plate VI. are reprefented a fcarifi- cator, and different fizes and figures of cupping-glaffes, with which every opera-!- tor ought to be amply fupplied, fo as to be able to adapt a glafs to every part from whence it maybe proper to difchargeblood in this manner. When the part from which it is intended to produce a local eva- cuation of this kind is fo fituated that a fcarificator and cupping-glaffes can be ap- plied, this method is greatly preferable to every other; but it now and then happens, that parts are fo fituated as not to admit ofriafe TSea. IX. Of Blood-letting, of their application : Thus, in inflamma- tory affeaions of the eye, of the nofe, and of other parts'of the face, the fcarificator cannot be properly applied direaiy to the parts affeaed. In fuch inftances, leeches are commonly had recourfe to, as they can be placed upon almoft any fpot from whence we would wifli to difcharge blood. In the application of thefe animals, the mofl effeaual method of making them fix upon a particular fpot, is to confine them to the part by means of a fmall wine-glafs. Allowing them to creep upon a dry cloth, or upon a dry board, for a few minutes before application, makes them fix more readily; and moiftening the parts on which they are intended to fix, either with milk, cream, or blood, tends alfo to caufe them adheremuch more fpeedily than they other- wife would do. So foon as the leeches have feparated, the ordinary method of promoting the difcharge of blood, is to cover the parts with linen cloths wet in warm water: In fome fituations, this may probably be as effeclual a method as any other;174 Of Blood-letting, Chap. Ill* other; but wherever the cupping-glaffes can be applied over the wounds, they an- fwer the purpofe much more effedlually : Wherever the figure of the part, therefore, will admit of their application, they ought undoubtedly to be employed. Among other methods of effefling what we term Local Blood-letting, fcarifications with the edge or {boulders of a lancet was mentioned as one: There are not many in- flances in which this proves very neceffary j but now and then cafes do occur in which blood may be taken in this manner, when it cannot with propriety be difeharged by any other means. This is particularly the cafe in fome inflammatory afled;ions of the eye, where the ball of the eye is chiefly affedled, and where general blood-letting and evacuations from the neighbouring parts do not prove effedlual. In fuch af- fedlions it frequently happens, that fcari- fying the vefTels of the tunica conjunftiva of the eye, fo as to evacuate perhaps only a very few drops of blood, is productive of much advantage. The mere divifion of 3Se<^l. iX. Of Blood-letting. 175 the veflels in fach cafes, has indeed been fuppofed to be of ufe j but I have conftantly obferved, that the advantage produced by this operation, has been in general nearly in proportion to the quantity of blood dif- charged by it. Different methods have been propofed for performing it, but the eafiefl and moft effedlual, is by means of the edge or flioulder of a lancet. For this purpofe, th^ upper eye-lid being fupported by the hand of an affiflant, and the under pal- pebra being fecured by the fingers of the operator’s left-hand, with the lancet in his right-hand, a number of flight fcarifi- cations fhould be made through the diffe- rent veffels that feem to be moft turgid. In order to fecure the eye properly, it has been advifed to have it previoufly fixed by a fpeculum before attempting tofcarify the veffels. There is not, however, any occafion for this precaution, as the eye may be always made fufficiently fteady for this operation, by gentle prefTure with the fingers in the manner direded j and be- fides, I276 Of Blood-letting. Clia^. IIL fid es, in this inflamed ftate of the eye, the preflure produced by a fpeculum is very apt to do mifchief. To filch as have not feen this operation put in pradUce, it may perhaps appear to be too hazardous to be attempted by thofe who are not much accuftomed to it; but a very moderate degree of (leadinefs ren- ^ ders it very eafily and fafely pradlicablcr All the veflels intended to be cut, being freely divided, bathing the eye in warm water is the molt effedlual method of en- couraging the difcharge. In the fame manner, fcarifications of this kind may at times be ufefully em- ployed in removing inflammatory affec- tions of the eye-lids ; and the fame re- medy may now and then, perhaps, be ufed with advantage in fimilar affedlions of other parts. Among other methods that have been propofed for fcarifying the blood-veflels of the eye, the beards of rough barley were at one period much extolled, and are ftill employed by fome individuals. 3 By177 Se6l. IX. Of Blood-letting. By drawing them over the furface of the eye, in a diredion contrary to the fharp fpiculae with which they are furnilhed, a confiderable difcharge of blood is thereby produced. But the pain attending this operation is exquifite ; and as it does not pofTefs any fuperior advantage to the me- thod with the lancet, it is now falling into general difufe. We have thus finifhed the conlideration of the various means employed in fbrgery for evacuating blood from the fyftem ; and as the diforder termed Aneurifm is fre- quently produced by an unguarded manner of performing one of the operations we have juft been deferibing, the farther con- fideration of this fubjetft cannot, we think, be any where more properly introduced than in this place, 'where one of the prin- cipal caufes tending to produce it has been fo lately treated of. I M CHAP. VoL. I.' Of Aneurifms, Chap. IV. 17S CHAP. IV. Of Aneurisms. SECTION I. General Remarks on Aneurifms, term Aneurifm, was originally meant to fignify a tumor formed by • the dilatation of the coats of an artery; but by modern practitioners, it is made to ap- ply, not only to tumors of this kind, but to fuch as are formed by blood effufed from arteries into the contiguous parts; a cir- cum fianceOf Ancunfns. 179 Sc(5l. I. cumftance which may happen either from an artery being pim(5lured with a fliarp in- ftrument, or from a rupture of its coats produced by any other caufe. The firft fpecies of the diforder, viz. that which depends on an extenfion or dilata- tion of the coats of an artery, has been denominated the True Aneurifm ; and the latter, or that which proceeds from an effu- fion of arterial blood into the furrounding parts, has been commonly termed the Falfe Aneurifm. As the introdu(5llon of new appellations frequently tends to produce confufion, neceffity alone can juftify the attempt; and accordingly it will rarely happen, in the courfe of the prefent work, that any innovation of this kind is made. In the prefent inftance, however, as the na- ture and treatment of the diforder may be rendered more clear and diftindt by a change of terms applied to the different fpecies of aneurifm, an attempt of this kind, may for fuch a reafon, it is hoped, be made without any impropriety. M 2 InI So Of Aneurifms. Chap. IV, In that fpecles of the diforder depend- ing upon the dilatation of an artery, as the tumor is always circumfcribed, and contained within coats peculiar to itfelf, it may therefore properly enough be termed the Encyfted Aneurifm; and the other, from the fwelling fpreading extenfively over the neighbouring parts, may with equal propriety be termed the DlfFufed Aneurifm. As thefe two fpecies of the diforder are very different from one another, not only in their caufes, appearance, and effedls, but even in the treatment neceffary for their removal; k will be proper, therefore, to enter into a feparate confideradori of each of them. In the true or encyfted aneurifm, when externally fituated, the tumor when firfl obferved is commonly very fmall and cir- cumfcribed; the fkin retains its natural appearance; when preffed by the fingers, a pulfation correfponding vvith that of the artery below is evidently diftinguifhed; and with very little force the contents of theOf Aneur‘ifms\ Se(5l. I. iSi M 3 contained the fwelling, while they are yet foft and fludluating, may be eahly made to difap- pear entirely. If means properly calculated for the re- moval of the difeafe are not now put in pradlice, or if upon trial they (hould be found to fail, the fwelling begins to in- creafe, becomes more prominent, and con- tinues in a gradual manner to acquire a larger fize. For a confiderable time the Ikin and teguments retain their natural appearance ; the patient does not complain of pain, not even on prelTure ; the tumor continues of an equal fofcnefs ; and its con- tents are flill compreffible, yielding con- liderably, and in general difappearing en- tirely on the application of preffure. At laft, however, when the fwelling becomes very large, the Ikin lofes its ordinary co- lour, becomes pale, and, in the more ad- vanced ftages of the difeafe, even oedema- tous : The pulfation ftill continues ; but the tumor although foft in fome parts, yet an others is firm, and cannot now be made to yield much upon preffure, part of theChap IV. i82 Of Aneurifms, contained blood having in this ftage of the difeafe become hard by coagnla-? tion. The fwelling continuing to increafe, in a gradual manner it becomes more pain- ful, and produces much diftrefs ; the fkin turns livid, apparently verging to a gan- grenous ftate ; at laft, an oozing of bloody ferum occurs from the teguments; and if a real mortification does not take place, the fldn cracks in different parts; and now the force of the artery not meeting with fo much refiftance as before, in a very fliort fpace of time, if the veffel is large, a period is put to the patient’s exiflence, by the blood burfting out with fuch violence as to produce almoft inftantaneous death; at lead in the larger arteries of the trunk of the body, this is the ordinary event of all fuch affections. In the extremities, however, the arteries are not fo large as by their rupture to be capable of .produ- cing effects fo immediately fatal; and be- fides, we can here, in general, by means of the tourniquet, be always certain of preventingSedl. I. Of Armirifms, 183 preventing this fudden termination of the difeafe. In aneurifmal affedlions of the larger ar- teries, the effedls produced upon the neigh-^ bouring parts, by the conftant pulfation and gradual augmentation of the tumor, are often furprifing. The fofter parts we might, a priori^ expedl to yield to a very conhderable extent; but the hardeft parts of the body, probably from the very cir- cumftance of their not being capable of yield-^ ing^ evidently fufFer more from the effedls of this kind of prefTure, than either mem- branes, mufcles, or ligaments. Even the bones frequently undergo a very great de- gree of derangement, by the pulfation and diftenfion of contiguous aneurifms: Some- times they are feparated entirely from one another at the different joints : On fome occafions they are elevated much out of their natural fituations ; and in many in- flances they have been found entirely dif- folved. Occurrences of this kind are not com- mon in any of the extremities, as it is the M 4 ' ftrong184 , Aneurifnu. Chap. IV. flrong pulfation of the aorta only, or of fome of the larger arteries at no great di- ftance from the heart, that we can ever fuppofe fhould be followed by fuch con- fequences. . Now and then, however, fimi- lar effeiSIs of an aneurifm have been ob- ferved in. the thigh, and fuperior parts of the arm ; even the bones of thefe parts having been found much affedled by aneu- rifmal fwellings of the neighbouring ar- teries. The appearance and termination of en- cyfted aneurifms, are in general very nearly as is here reprefented: One ex- ception, however, occurs in a particular fpecies of the diforder, which will after- wards be more accurately deferibed. Various caufes may be fuppofed necef- fary to the production of encyfled aneu- rifms. I. We know from daily expe- rience, that partial debility frequently occurs in different parts of the fyftem : Thus, there is nothing more common than oedematous fwellings of the extre- mities, even in conftitutions otherwife healthy;Sedl. I. Of Aneurifms. \ 85 healthy; and fwellings of this nature, we juftly fiippofe to depend mofl frequently on a local weaknefs of the parts in which they occur. Now', why may not a debi- lity of a limilar kind fall upon part of the arterial fyftem ? and, if it fhould ever do fo, we can eafily fee how in almoft every inftance it mull neceiTarily terminate in aneurifmal fwellings : For the force of the heart continuing the fame, if any parti- cular part of an artery has loft its tone, as it is thereby rendered incapable of relift- ing the pulfations of the heart, a yielding, or dilatation of its coats, mull at thefe weakened parts naturally enfue ; and as foon as a morbid enlargement of its ca- vity is thus fairly commenced, as its power of refiftance will of courfe propor- tionally diminifli, while at the fame time the "VIS a tergo fhill continues equally pow- erful, the farther increafe of the fw’^elling is a confequence that muft neceiTarily en- fue. This caufe of the difeafe may be conli- dered as the moft frequent origin of aneu- rifmsi86 Of Aneurifms, Chap. IV. rifms that do not evidently depend upon external injuries: All fuch fwellings as oc- cur in the courfe of the aorta, feem clearly to depend on this caufe; as is in general the cafe, indeed, with all fuch as happen internally, in whatever part of the body they may be fituated. 2. The external coats of an artery being deftroyed by a wound with any kind of inftrument, a partial weaknefs of the part will be thus produced; and this muft ren- der it liable to be adled upon to advantage, by the heart and other parts of the arterial fyftem, in the fame manner as if it had been previoully debilitated by difeafe. In dilatations of an artery produced by this caufe, the diforder proceeds in the manner we have already defcribed. The blood, from being ftill confined within the coats of the artery, continues to form a circumfcribed tumor. In the beginning of the difeafe, the fwelling is eafily made to difappear upon preffure; but on ad- vancing farther, part of its contents be- come fo firm by coagulation, as to render it187 Sedl. I. Of Aneurtfms, it impoffible to difcufs it by any degree of prefTure that can with propriety be applied. This fpecies of the diforder may now and then occur from other caufes, but it is mofl frequently produced by blood-letting in the arm; by the lancet, after having pafled through the vein, going fo deep as to divide the external coats of the ar- tery.' 3. A limilar effe(5l has been fometimes produced, by the matter contained in neighbouring fores and abfceffes, proving fo corrofive as to deftroy the external co- verings of the contiguous arteries : When this happens to occur, the fame train of fymptoms, it is evident, muft fiicceed as if the outer coats of the vefTel had been de- ftroyed by a lancet or any other fharp in- lirument. 4. The bones, mufcles, ligaments, &c. with which arteries are furrounded, all • ferve as a fupport to thefe velTels, fo that it is not furprifing, that the deftru(5lion of any of thefe parts fliould tend to the pro- dudlion of aneurifms; and accordingly,i88 Of Aneurifms. Chap. IV. inflances have occurred, where affedlions of this kind feemed evidently to depend on fuch a caufe: Indeed the firmnefs and liability of any fet of parts naturally con- nedled together, depends fo much upon a found ftate of the whole, that any one of them becoming weak and difeafed, gene- rally terminates in a difeafed (late of all or part of the remainder. In the thigh of a patient where part of the mufcles and other foft parts had been deftroyed by an exten- five mortification, different aneurifmal fwellings occurred in the courfe of the fe- moral artery which had thus loft part of its fupport; and no other caufe appeared to be concerned in their produdlion. 5. In blood-letting at the ufual place in the arm, it was already remarked, that ar- teries are fometimes wounded, by the lan- cet palling quite through the vein into the artery below; and when the artery hap- pens to be directly in conta<5l with the vein, the blood difcharged from the orifice made in the artery, by pafling diredlly into the Ycin, ferves to keep up a communication be-Sec5l. I. Of Aneurifms, 189 between the trunk of the one, and a prin- cipal branch of the other. In this manner, a diredl pafTage being produced between the artery and vein, and the coats of the latter not being fufE- ciently firm for refilling the impulfe of the former, a preternatural dilatation of the vein is a confequence that mull necef- farily follow : A tumor accordingly is very foon produced, which is at firft fmall and circumfcribed, but by degrees it extends confiderably both above and below the orifice; not only along the courfe of the vein originally wounded, but, on fome oc- cafions, all the veins lying contiguous come to be equally diftended. This fpecies of the difeafe was firft ac- curately defcribed by that celebrated ana- tomift Do<5lor William Hunter; and may with great propriety be termed the Vari- cofe Aneurifm. Since that period it has been frequently obferved by different prac- titioners ; fo that its nature is now very generally underflood. Although the coats of the artery are 2 here190 Of Aneurifms, Chap. IV. here fuppofed to be all cut fairly open, fo as to produce an. immediate difcharge of blood; yet by the blood being contained within the cavity of the veins, this fpecies of the difeafe may with equal propriety be confidered as encyfted, as any of the preceding; and as the treatment of it co- incides much with that of other encyfted aneurifms, the farther confideration of the fubject, could not, it was imagined, be any where more properly introduced. In this fpecies of aneurifm, the fwelling is confined entirely to the veins. Soon af- ter the injury producing it has been recei- ved, the vein communicating immediate- ly with the artery begins to fwell: In a gradual manner, this enlargement be- comes more remarkable; and when any confiderable anaftomofis occurs near to the part affecfted, between it and the con- tiguous veins, thefe alfo become much enlarged. By preffing upon this fwelling of the veins, it may be made to difappear entirely, the blood contained in them being in part puftied forward in its courfe towardsSedt. I. Of Aneurifms, 191 towards the heart, while part of it may poflibly be forced into the artery itfelf; and, when the tumor happens to be of a confiderable fize, the blood, when it is thus forced out of it, is heard to make a very lingular hiffing kind of noife. This, when it occurs, is a very charadteriftic fymptom of the difeafe; but as it is not met with in every cafe, it becomes necelTary to point out particularly, fuch circumftances as more certainly ferve to diftinguilh this fpecies of aneurifm. In the varicofe aneurifm there is a very lingular tremulous motion difcovered in the dilated vein, attended with a perpetual hilling noife as if air was palTing into it through a fmall aperture. If a firm liga- ture be applied upon the under part of the limb, immediately below the fwelling, and be tied fo tight, as even to Hop the pulfe in the under part of the member, the fwel- ling in the' veins, on being removed by prelTure, returns inllantaneoully on the preffure being taken olF, and does not ap- pear to be in any degree alFe(5ted by the li- 2 gatureIQ2 Of Aneurifms, Chap. IV. gature below j which it undoubtedly would be, was it not for the diredl communica- tion between the trunk of the artery and correfponding vein. The fwelling being removed by prefling the blood forward to the heart, and a flight preflure being made with the point of the finger on the orifice in the artery, the veins remain perfedlly flaccid, without any fwelling whatever be- ing produced, till the preflure is removed from the orifice, when they fill again im- mediately ; and this even happens, altho’ the preflure on the artery is not fb firm as to flop the circulation in the under part of the limb. In the fame manner, too, if the trunk of the artery be compreflTed above the orifice, fo as to flop the circulation efiedlually, that tremulous motion and hilling noife in the fwelling of the veins ceafes inftantly; and, if the veins are now emptied by pref- fure, they will certainly remain fo till the Compreffion upon the artery is removed. On fome occafions, too, it happens, that if two ligatures be applied, one an inch or : twoSec^l. i. Of Aneurifms. 193 two above, knd the other as much below the fwethng, and are made fo tight, as to flop entirely the circulation of the blood in the tumor lying between them; if the fweliing is now compreffed, all the blood contained in it is made to pafs into the opening in the artery, from whence it in- ftantly returns again on the prelTure being removed. This, however, does not al- ways happen ; and its not doing fo, is no proof whatever of that fpecies of aneurifm now under confideration not a6lually exift- ing ; for if all or feveral of the leading circumftances of the difeafe which we have juft enumerated ever take place, the nature of the diforder is thereby rendered clear and evident. In addition to the' other charadleriftid fymptoms of the varicofe aneurifm, it may be remarked, that when it has continued for any length of time, lb as to have produced a conliderable dilatation of the veins, the trunk of the artery above the orifice .generally becomes preternaturally large, while the branches below become VoL. L N pro-194 Aneurifms,^ Chap. IV^ proportionally fmall; and of confequence, the pulfe in the under part of the member, is always more feeble than in the found limb of the oppoiite fide. The reafon of this lafl; circumftance is obvioufly this; that the blood, by finding a diredt pafiage between the trunk of the artery and the principal branch of the correfponding vein, pafTes more readily in that way, than by the common courfe of circulation along the un<ler part of the member; fo that the quantity of blood fent to the inferior extremities of the artery being thus much diminilhed, the pulfa- tion produced by it muft of courfe become proportionally feeble: But why the fupe- rior part of the artery fliould be enlarged, by the blood paffing thus fo diredlly and eafily from it into the vein, is a circum- ftance not fo eafily accounted for. The refiftance to the blood palfing through the artery, is by this diredl communication between it and the vein very much dimi- niftied; and this has been fuggefted as the caufe of the phenomenon. But this cir- cumfiance^Of Aneurifms], 19^ &ea. i. cumftance, of the refinance to the p^fTage of the blood being thus diminifhed, we might more readily expea to have a very contrary effea. In other parts of the circu- lating fyftem, we frequently find, that re- finance to the pafiTage of the fluids termi- nates in a dilatation of the containing vef- fels; and that fwellings thus produced, can be removed by no other means than the re- moval of that refiftance which firft gave rife to them. Nothing that can be faid upon this fubjea, however, will afford much fadsfadion, as it is merely a fpeculative point; and as it can have no great influence on the practical treatment of the diforder, we fhall not here attempt a farther inve- ftigation of it. Having thus enumerated the ordinary appearances of the different fpecies of en- ' cyfled aneurifm, together with the various i caufes which are found to produce them, I we fhall now proceed to deferibe the fymp- j toms and caufes of the diffufed aneurifm, ; and fhall conclude with the treatment of the various fpecies of the difeafe. N 2 The196 Of Aneurifms, Chap. IV. TheDiiFufed, or what is commonly term- ed the Falfe Aneurifm, confifts in a wound or rupture of an artery, producing, by the blood thrown out from it, a fwelling, more or lefs diffufed, in the contiguous parts. Great bodily exertion, has frequently proved an evident means of inducing a rupture of very eonfiderable arteries feaced internally; This we know to be particu- larly frequent in thofe of the lungs, pro- bably from their being in that organ fur- rounded with fuch foft contiguous parts, as do not afford them much fupport; and probably from the contrary reafon, that here the arteries are more firmly fupport- ed, fuch accidents feldom or never occur in the external parts, where alone they could ever become the objedl of afurgeon’s atten- tion. Welhall therefore confineour defcrip- tion of this diforder, entirely to that kind of it which we know to be moft frequently produced by a wound made cMredlly into an artery, and which it is commonly in the power of art. to relieve. When197 Sea. I. Of Aneurifms, When treating of the confeqnences of venaefeaion in the arm, wounding the contiguous artery was particularly men- tioned as one : In a few iriftances, by the treatment then pointed out, any bad effeas which might otherwife occur from this circumftance, will be entirely prevented, by the wound in the artery healing with- out any of the ufual confequences being produced by it. Such happy terminations, however, of this accident, are exceedingly rare, and can never with any degree of certainty be depended on. When a pundured artery refills the means employed for preventing the ordi- nary effeds known to refult from it, it will then for certain terminate in a fwelling of the aneurifmal kind; and the following is the ufual progrefs of the diforder. A fmall tumor, of about the fize of a horfe bean, generally rifes juft at the ori- fice in the artery, foon after the difeharge of blood has been ftopt by comprefiion: At firft the tumor is foft, has a ftrong de- gree of pulfation, and yields a little upon N 3 pref-1^8 Of Amurlffns. Chap. IV. preffure. It is never, however, fo com- preffible as the fwelling of an encftyed aneiirifm: For in the latter, except in the more advanced ftages of the difeafe, the blood remains perfedlly fluid, and there is a regular circulation of it through the whole cyfl; whereas, in the difFufed aneu- rifm, the blood forming the tumor is at once extravafated; and as in that ftate it foon begins to coagulate, it is not long in acquiring a yery firm degree of con- fiftence. • In this date of the diforder, if the fwell-? ing be not improperly treated by the ap- plication of much prefTure, it generally remains nearly of the fame fize for feve- ral weeks, when it begins gradually to in- creafe; and if feated in the ufual place of blood-letting in the arm, it proceeds ra- ther farther up than the orifice, and ex- tends rather more inwardly than towards the outer part of the arm, probably from the expanfion of the biceps mufcle not being there fo firm and compadl as in the external and under part of the arm. ThisN 4 ami T. Of Aneurlfms,' igg This enlargement of the tumor, too, pro- ceeds with much more quicknefs in fome inftances than in others, and on fome oc- cafions the fwelling is much more diffufed and extended than in others. Both thefe circumftances, it is probable, clepend upon the fame caufe. If the blood poured out by an artery, is thrown into a very lax cellular fubftance, we can eafily fuppofe, that its increafe will not only be more rapid, but that the dilFufion of the tumor muft for the fame reafon be much more confiderable, than when the artery is immediately enveloped by firm mem- branous or ligamentous parts, which do not fo readily yield to the impulfe of the blood. There is, from this circumftance alone indeed, fuch a remarkable differ- ence in the progrefs of the diforder, that in fome inftances fwellings of this kind have been many months, nay even years, in arriving at any confiderable fize; and on the contrary, fome inftances have oc- curred of the ,blood from the orifice in the artery, being diffufed over the wholeOf Aneurifmu Chap. IV. 200 arm from the elbow up to the flioulder, in the fpace of a few hours from the oper- ration. A particular laxity of cellular fubftance, has undoubtedly, in all fuch inftances, a great influence in promoting this rapid diffufioii of the extravafated blood ; but the ordinary pra(5fice in every cafe of a wounded artery, of applying very tight compreffion, 1 am convinced, has alfo a very great influence jn producing the fame efFedf. In addition to what was faid upon this point in the chapter on Blood-letting, I fhall here juft obferve, that if it was pof- fible to produce a moderate degree of pref- fure upon the orifice in the artery alone, fome advantage might now and then per- haps be derived from it; but in order to apply a degree of compreffion fufficient for producing any influence upon the artery, the principal veins in the limb muft by the fame means be all fo much adled upon, as to occafion much obftrudlion to the re-*- turn of blood from the eorrefponding ar- tery. And whatever tends in any degree toSea. r. 201 Of Aneurlfms, !l ! to obftrua the refluent blood, muft in ! an equal proportion dlftend the wounded artery, and increafe the quantity of blood which efcapes by the orifice. Many ma- chines have indeed been contrived for pro- ducing a partial comprefllon upon the ar- tery without afibaing the reft of the limb: But however much thefe may have been extolled by their feveral inventors, yet none hitherto difeovered anfwers the pur- pofe of eomprefling the artery, without at the fame time tending greatly to ob- ftrua the circulation in the veins; info- much that a great deal of mifehief has on different occafions been produced by all of them. Whoever inclines to have recourfe to the- ufe of thefe inftruments, will find a variety of them delineated in Heifter’s Syftem of Surgery, and in Dionis and Plat- ner’s works. Mr Dionis, an eminent French furgeon, although in cafes of wounded arteries he recommends the ufual pradice of compref- fion, yet relates a cafe which happened to a furgeon202 Chap. IV. Of Aneurlfms, furgeon of his acquaintance, in which the bad effecEls produced by it were fo ftrongly marked, as muft convince any perfon of the general impropriety of fuch a remedy. A furgeon having in blood-letting open- ed an artery, the ufual method of tight comprefllon was immediately employed. By this means the difcharge of blood ex- ternally was very foon flopped; But fome blood continuing to efcape from the ori- fice in the artery, palTed up towards the fuperior part of the arm, which it filled to fuch a degree, that on the operation for the aneurifm, which was foon found ne- cefiary, being performed, upwards of four pounds of coagulated blood was difcharged from it; and for this purpofe it became neceflary to lay the parts open along the whole courfe of the arm When, again, compreflion has not been applied to fuch tumors, unlefs there is a very unufual degree of foftnefs and laxity in the furrounding parts, the fwelling pro- ceeds to increafe in a more gradual man- ner: ^ Vid. Dionis’s Courfe of Chirurgical Operations.Secfl. 'I. Of Aneurifms, 203 ner: As it becomes larger, it does not, like the true aneurifm, become much more prominent, but rather fpreads and diiTufes itfelf into the furrounding parts ; By de- grees it acquires a very firm confiftence; and the pulfation, which was at firfl con- fideiable, always diminifhes in proportion to this difference of confiftence, and to the increafe which the tumor receives in point of fize; infomuch, that in,large aneurifmal fwellings of this kind, it fometimes hap- pens, that the pulfation of the artery is fcarcely perceptible. In the firfl flages of the tumor, if the blood thrown out from the artety lies very deep, the fkin preferves its natural ap- pearance, and does not change its colour till the diforder is much advanced. It fre- quently happens, however, that the blood is at firfl thrown out with fo much vio- lence, as to get into immediate contact with the fkin ; and when this occurs, the colour of the parts becomes inflantly livid, as if tending to a flateof mortification. A |:eal fphacelus, indeed, has on fome oeca- fionsOf Aneurifms, Chap. IV. 204 fions been induced where the extravafation of blood has been confiderable, and where the means belt fuited for its removal have either failed or have been entirely ne- gledled. It muft be conlidered, however, as a piece of unpardonable negligence, in any pradlitioner, to allow a patient, from this caufe, to run that degree of rilk which al- ways attends mortification; for the hazard attending the operation of the aneurifm, is in general trifling when compared with the danger accruing from an extenfive gangrene. As the tumor in this fpecies of the difeafe proceeds to increafe, the patient, who du- ring the firft ftages of it did not complain of much uneafinefs, is now much diftrefled not only with fevere pains, but with ftiff- ncfs, want of feeling, and immobility of the whole member: And thefe fymptoms continuing to augment, if the tumor is not previoufly operated upon, the tegu- ments at laft burft ; and if the artery is of any confiderable fize, and if we have not imme-Sc(5l» I. Of Aneurifms, 205 immediate recourfe to efFedlual means for preventing it, death muft for certain en- fue, in confequence of the very profufe he- morrhagy which muft thus be produced. Various caufes were enumerated, as be- ing frequently under certain circumftances produdliveof the encyfted aneurifm; fome variety occurs too of caufes which termi- nate in the diffufed fpecies of aneurifm. I. Violent bodily exertions may be con- lidered as the moft frequent caufe of the rupture of arteries fituated internally; but as thefe do not properly belong to a work of furgery, we ftiall not here enter at any length into their confideration. II. The corrofive matter of fores and abfcefles,by entirely deftroying the coats of a contiguous artery, may in this manner be productive of the diffufed aneurifm. HI. The lliarp fpiculas of a fradlured bone being pufhed into a neighbouring artery, have, on difterent occalions, pro- duced aneurifm. IV. Violent blows have been known to produce aneurifmal fwellings of this kind. This,206 Of Aneurifmsi, ChaJ). iVs This, however, can fcarcely happen in any ocher ficuation than on the head, where the arteries lie more expofed than in other parts to the efiedls of fuch injuries, by their being here very thinly covered, and from a blow in this ficuation adling with great advantage, by falling on the artery lying almoft in clofe conta(5l with a firm hard body, the cranium. V. If the arterial covering of an encyfcd aneurifm, fhould ever burfi; before the ex- ternal teguments of the tumor, in that cafe the blood contained in it would difFufe it- felf into the contiguous parts ; and in fuch an event, the difeafe would no doubt be- come a real diffufed aneurifm. Such an occurrence, however, we have reafon to think, very rarely, if ever happens; for, inftead of the internal coverings of fuch tumors firft breaking, fo far at leaft as I have had opportunities of obferving, it is the very reverfe. The fwelling going on to increafe in a gradual manner, the tegu- ments at lafi; become fo tenfe and over- llretched, that they lofe their tone entirely; 3Of Amurljms, 207 Sed. I. the fkin becomes foft and oedematons; on fome occafions, it comes into a gangrenous ftare; and on others, although it retains its natural white colour, yet its ufual powers are as evidently deftroyed as they ever are .in the laft ftage of mortification. In this ftate it generally remains for a longer or fhorter fpace of time, according to the ftrength of the arterial pulfation below. At laft, however, the fkin begins to crack, and a thin ferum oozes out; the edges of this fmall filTure in the teguments gradually feparate from one another; and the con- tents of the tumor having loft a confider- able part of their fupport, the force with which they are impelled, by degrees be- comes too powerful for the remaining co- verings, which accordingly foon burft, fo as to difcharge their contents externally, without producing any efFufion among the neighbouring parts. I fhould therefore fufpecft, that authors in general have all along been under fome miftake on this point: The encyfted, or true aneurifm, as it is termed, has been alwaysof Aneurifns. Chap. IV. 2o8 always fuppofed in its laft ftages to bnrft internally, and fo to produce the difFufed or falfe fpecies of the difeafe; from what has been faid, however, there is good reafon to prefume, if ever it does happen, that it is at lead a very rare occurrence. The pro- grefs and termination of the encyfted aneu-- rifm,. in every cafe I have either feen, or known well authenticated, has been very nearly as we have juft defcribedj not by the arterial fac firft burfting, but by a rupture being produced in the external teguments after they have been greatly over-ftretched; the blood being foon there- after difcharged outwardly, without pro- ducing any cifufion into the furrounding parts. As it has been alleged, however, by very refpedlable authors, that the contrary does now and then happen, and as there is a poflibility of this being the cafe, I could not here avoid confideringit as one of the caufes of dilFufed aneurifm. VI. The moft frequent eaufe, however, of this fpecies of aneurifrii, are pundlures with fliarp inftruments, fuchas fwords,cutlafres, 7 andSed.I. Of Aneurifms, 209 and particularly the lancet, which lad may be confidered as having been produ(fl;ive of at lead nine-tenths of all the aneurifmal fweliings that ever occurred. Under one or other of thefe heads, al- inoft every circumftance may be compre- hended, that can ever tend to the produc- tion of fuch affecftions. On many occafions, it has unfortu- nately happened, that tumors of the aneu- rifmal kind having been miftaken for ab- fcelTes and other colledlions of matter, and ' their contents of courfe have been laid open by incifion. The confequences of fuch pradlice, may be more readily conceived than defcribed. With a view to prevent fuch dreadful occurrences, it would be a matter of very great importance to prac- titioners, to have fuch a fet of diagnoftic fymptoms of aneurifm pointed out, as would with certainty determine the na- ture of the complaint. In the commence- ment of the diforder, there is in general no great difficulty in determining, as the VoL. I. O pulfation210 Of Aneurifms. Chap. IV. pulfation in the tumor is commonly fo ilrongy and other concomitant circum- ftances tend fo obvioufly to point out the nature of the difeafe, that little or no doubt refpedling it can ever occur; but, in the more advanced ftages of the difeafe, when the fwelling has become very large, and has loft its pulfation entirely, nothing but a very minute attention to the previ- ous hiftory of the cafe can enable us to form a judgment of its nature. Thofe fwellings, with which aneurifm& are moft likely to be confounded, are, fofc encyfted tumors, fcrophulous fwellings, and abfcelTes containing either purulent or other matter, fituated either imme- diately above, or fo nearly in contadi with an artery, as to receive the influence of its pulfation; and when any fuch tumor happens to be nearly connedled with an artery of confiderable fize, the pulfation communicated to it is frequently found to be fo very ftrong and diftindl, as to ren- der it impoffible from this circumftance alone sOf Aneur'ifms, 211 Seel. I. alone, to form any juft idea as to the na- ture of its contents. But there is one fymptom, which when prefent, and when connedled with a ftrong pulfation in the tumor, may always lead us to determine with a great degree of certainty, that the fwelling is of the aneu- rifmal kind; and it is this; the contents of the tumor being made eafily to difap- pear upon preflure, at the fame time that they return inftantaneoufly on the com- preflion being removed. But although the prefence of this circumftance, when con- nedled with other charadleriftic fymptoms of aneurifm, may lead us to conclude, that every tumor is of that nature in which thefe happen to be combined, yet the •want of it ought by no means to convince us that it is not of that kind; for it very frequently happens, particularly in the advanced ftages of aneurifms, that their contents become fo firm and compadl that no effedl whatever is produced upon them by preflure. Upon the whole, there- fore, as in many inftances of this difeafe, O 2 noOf Aneurifmst Chap. IV. no certainty whatever can be obtained as to its real nature, in all fuch cafes where there is any conliderable degree of doubt, pradlitioners ought to lay it down as an eftabliflied rule, to proceed as if the tumor was in reality of the aneurifmal kind. By adhering to this rule, they may perhaps in a few inftances be deterred from open- ing tumors of an ordinary nature, which they may afterwards find might have been laid open with fafety; but any leffer in- convenience that may thus be occafioned, will be much more than compenfated, if, even in a fingle inftance, a furgeon be faved from thofe difagreeable refledlions which he mu ft experience if he ftiould have the misfortune to open an aneu- rifm inftead of a colledlion of matter. But it is in the trunk of the body only, it muft be obferved, or in the neck, axilla, upper part of the thigh, or groin, that fo much caution in the treatment of tu- mors of this doubtful nature can be ever neceffary. For when fituated on the un- der part of any of the extremities, or even onSe^. I. Of An eur'ifms. , 213 on any acceffible part of the head, as in fuch cafes, when the fwellings have pro- ceeded to any confiderable fize, the ope- ration for the aneurifm ought always to be performed, fo there can never in fuch cir- cumftances be any impropriety in having recourfe to it; for if, on laying the tumor open, it is found to be of the aneurifmal kind, we are pofTefTed of a very certain method of faving the patient from imme- diate danger, namely, the application of the tourniquet. In forming a prognofis in cafes of aneu- rifm, three important circumftances chief- ly require our attention. The manner in which the difeafe appears to have been j produced: The part of the body in which the fwelling is fituated ; And laflly, the age, and habit of body, of the pa- tient. If an aneurifm has come forward in a gradual manner, without any apparent injury having been done to the part, and without having fucceeded to any violent bodily exertion ; there will then be great Q 3 reafonOf Aneurijms, Chap. IV. 214 reafon to fuppofe, that the difeafe depends upon fome paralytic or other general af- fedlion either of the trunk of the veffel in which it occurs, or perhaps of the whole arterial fyftem ; fo that no great fuccefs is to be expelled from any means to be at- tempted for the patient’s relief; for the operation of the aneurifm being performed on the part affedled, there would be much reafon to fufpecfl that the fame caufe which originally produced it here will have the effect of producing fimilar dilatations in other parts of the artery : Whereas, there is great reafon to expedl, if the tumor has evidently fucceeded to a bruife, pundure, or other external accident, that the opera- tion will be attended with complete fuccefs, provided the circulation of the part is not altogether deftroyed by the ligature to be put upon the artery. In that fpecies of the diforder we have termed the Varicofe Aneurifm, we may ge- nerally venture on a more favourable prog- nolis than in any other kind of aneurifm: For it has been found in different inftances, .1 thatI Sedl. I. Of Aneur'ifms, 215 that the aneurifmal tumor does not here proceed fo rapidly as in other cafes ; that as foon as it gets to a certain length, it does not afterwards acquire much additional lize; and that any inconvenience produ^ ced by it may be fuftained with tolerable eafe for a great number of years. It is in this circumftance alone, we mull obferve, that any advantage occurs in the treatment of aneurifms from Dr Hunter’s difcovery of this fpecies of the difeafe: And a very important difcovery it is j for by means of it, a patient may be faved, not only from a very painful operation, but from that great degree of rilk which rauft always attend the deftrudllon of the principal artery of a limb. In the event of , a fwelling of this nature arriving at fuch a iize as to produce much real diflrefs, the operation ought no doubt to be had re- courfe to; but, fo long as any inconvenience arifing from it can be eafily fubmitted to, the hazard which almoft always attends this operation, and which nothing but ne- O 4 celjity2i 6 Of Aneurifms, Chap. IV. ceffity ought to indicate, fliould certainly be avoided The fituation of the tumor is the next circumftance of importance requiring our attention. When an aneurifmal fwelling is fo fituated, that no ligature or efFe(5lual compreiHon can be applied for putting a ftop * In Volume II. Art. XXXVI. of London Medical Obfervations, two cafes are related of the varicofe ancu- rifm, by Dr Hunter. One of them at that time was of fourteen years (landing, and the other had fubfifted for five years, without being produ£live of any necef- fity for having recourfe to the operation. And in Vol. III. of the fame work, Art. XIII. a fimilar cafe of five years duration is related by Dr Cleghorn. As it has been alleged by fome pra£litioners, that no advantage refults from the difcovery of this fpe- cies of aneurifm, from their fuppofing that the ufual operation is as neceffary in it as in any other variety of the difeafe ; and as in different inftances the ope- ration has been put in pra£lice even in the incipient ftages of the diforder, where no real neceffity we think could occur for it; it therefore becomes a matter of fuch importance as to merit a very attentive exa- mination ; and it is with much fatisfa£lion that I communicate the following fa£ls, as they tend to eftablilh as a certainty, that in the varicofe aneurifm, theSea. I. Of Aneurifms, ' 217 flop to the circulation in the part, if the artery be large, there would be the utmoft hazard the ufual operation of obliterating the cavity of the artery, is feldom, if ever, neceffary. In a letter I am favoured with from Dr Hunter, he fays, “ The Lady in whom I firfl; obferved the vari- cofe aneurifm is now living at Bath in good health; and the arm is in no fenfe worfe, although it is now thirty-five years fince flie received the injury.” And the Do£l;or farther obferves, that he never heard of the operation being performed for the varigofe aneu- rifm that was known to be fuch. In a letter from Dr William Cleghorn of Dublin I am informed, that the cafe of varipofe aneurifm above- mentioned, as related in the 3d Volume of London Medical Obfervations, remains nearly in the fame ftate as at the time that account of it was made oot, which was at lead twenty years ago; only that the veins are rather more enlarged. The patient recovered, and the limb became nearly as ftrong and ferviceable as the other. The man has all along continued his bu- finefs of fhoemaker, and has lately recovered from a fprain in the affeded arm, which he received in lift- ing a heavy burden. In a letter from Mr Pott, whofe opportunities for ob- fervation are great, he fays, that he has met with three different inftances of this fpecies of aneurifm, and that the operation never became neceffary in any of them.2i8 Of Aneurlfms^ Chap. IV. hazard in opening it; as the patient, in all probability, would lofe more blood than his flrengch could bear, before the artery could be fecured. In aneurifms fo fituated, therefore, particularly on any part of the trunk of the body, on the neck, axilla, or groin, there can never be any good foun- dation for a favourable prpgnofis. On the contrary, indeed, in fuch fituations, the greateft danger is always to be apprehend- ed : For the force of the arterial pulfation will at laft certainly overcome the refin- ance of the coats with which the tumor is furrounded; and in fuch an event, the moft fatal confequences are to be apprehended. la Among other inftances of varieofe aneurlfm which have appeared here, a young man from Paifley, who had the misfortune to meet with it feveral years ago, was examined by different furgeons of this place. The difeafe was very clearly marked, and no operation was advifed. In a letter from Mr Hamilton pro- feffor of Anatomy in Glafgow, I am informed, that this man is now ferving in the Navy, where he under- goes great fatigue without any inconvenience from the aneurifm, although it is now of thirteen years islanding.Se6l. I. Of Aneurlfms. 219 In the upper parts of any of the extre- mities, too, where all the arteries of the limb are centered in one common trunk, the fuccefs of the operation for the aneu- rifm muft always be doubtful. But al- though this is undoubtedly the cafe in the fuperior parts of the extremities, yet in lower fituations of the fame parts, even the principal artery of the limb may be ope- rated upon with a very fair profpedl of fuccefs; for after the great artery of a mem- ber has crept along the upper part of it, a number of fmall branches are always fent out, which anaftomozing not only with fimilar branches below, but by their means with the under part of the large ar- tery itfelf, thefe, in the event of the com- mon trunk from whence they fprung be- ing deftroyed, come to dilate to fuch an extent as to carry on the circulation in the inferior part of the limb much more com- pletely than could a priori be expelled, ' We would not naturally fuppofe, after the principal artery of a part has been obli- terated, that the circulation would there be220 Of Aneurifrm, Chap. IV* b« afterwards carried on with any tolerable degree of force; and yet numberlefs in- flances have occurred of the large brachial artery being completely deflroyed by liga- ture, without being produdive of much inconvenience to the parts below; and the fame circumftance has alfo happened, where the operation for the aneurifm has been performed on the trunk of the great femoral artery From what has been faid, therefore, it muft * In one cafe, the operation for the aneurifm was performed with the mod complete fuccefs, on the trunk of the femoral artery, about two band-breadths from the groin, by the late Mr Hamilton profeflbr of Anatomy in Glafgow. And what rendered this cafe more remarkable, was, that after the trunk of the large artery was fecured by the ligatures, it was neceflary to perform the operation again upon a fmall branch of an artery which had been wounded, even farther up, than the principal trunk. For feme time after the operation the limb remained colder than the other, and it was upwards of a week before any pulfation could be felt in the artery at the ankle. In two months from the operation, the wound was completely healed, and the circulation and heat V returned;22S Of Aneurifms^ Sea. I. muft appear, that when an aneurifm is fo fituated, that compreflion cannot be applied fo as to fecure the patient from the lofs of much blood when the artery is laid open, the operation Ihould not be attempted; and in fuch cafes the prognolis ought certainly ; to returned; and in a iKort time thereafter, the patient had fo fjr recovered the ufe of his limb, as to be able to take very violent exercife. Thefe particulars I thought it right to communi- cate, as the cafe of this patient is one of a very few •well authenticated inftances, of this operation having been attempted on the femoral artery fo near to its origin ; and the fuccefs attending it furely points out the propriety of having recourfe to the operation, in every aneurifm of thefe parts that does not evidently arife from a general debility of the coats of the artery. And as I am favoured with this account of the cafe from the prefent profeflbr of Anatomy in Glafgow, Mr Hamilton, fo» to the late profelTor, its authenti- city may be depended on. In Vol. III. Article XII. of the London Medical ^ Obfervations, there is another inftance related of the operation for the aneurifm having been performed on the trunk of the femoral artery, by Mr Burchal fur- geon in Manchefter; the patient recovered, and the limb became nearly as ftrong and as ferviceable as the other.Of Aneurifms, •222 Chap. IV. to be very unfavourable. And on the contrary, whenever an aneurifm, produced by external violence, is feated on any of the extremities, where we are fure of com- manding the circulation, the operation ought always to be undertaken, as foon as, from appearances, there is the leaft reafon to fufpedl that the tumor if left to itfelf might bur ft fo as to endanger the life of the patient. The fuccefs of this operation, depending in a great degree upon the probable chance there is for the circulation afterwards go- ing on in the under part of the member, our prognofis in every cafe of aneurifm, ought, cateris paribus^ to be more or lefs favourable, according as the diforder is feated higher or lower on the different ex- tremities : For the rifk of the circulation being hurt by it, is always in proportion to the height of the tumor; according as it is higher or lower, this rilk is always increafed or diminiftied. But laftly, whether an aneurifm has been produced by an external injury, or by the 3 cffedsSedl. I. Of Aneurifms, 22J efFedls of internal difeafe, and whatever may be its lituation, the habit of body and age of the patient ought to have a conli- derable influence, in determining the opi- nion of practitioners as to the effeCts to be expected from the operation. In no opera- tion, indeed, that we are acquainted with, are the advantages derived from health and youth more confpicuous than in this; for in the earlier periods of life, all the fofter parts accommodate themfelves much more readily to the circumltances attending any great change that may take place, than they ever do in the more advanced ftages of life: In old age, all the animal fibres have acqui- red fuch a degree of firmnefs and folidity, as to be rendered almoft Incapable of diften- ‘ lion; and this feems to be particularly the cafe with the arterial fyftem, fome parts of I which are often known to proceed even to i a ftate of oflification: So that at this period ;i of life, we may readily fuppofe the fmaller I arteries to be rendered altogether incapable of that degree of diftenlion neceffary for : fupplying the want of the principal artery of224 Of Aneurtfms* Chap. IV. of a part, and which in the more early periods of life they might with great eafe have admitted of. This operation having been performed with various degrees of fuccefs, even where the aneurifmal tumors were apparently in every refpedl fimilar both as to fituation and other circumftances, various reafons have been fuggefted to account for this. With fome the operation has fucceeded, even under circumftances apparently more unfavourable, than with others where it failed. Thus it has been known to an- fwer, as we have lately I'emarked, feveral inches above the knee, when the trunk of the femoral artery was for certain taken up by the ligature ; and in others, it has failed when done in the ham: That is, in the former, the circulation in the under part of the leg was ftill preferved, and the patients recovered ; while in the latter, where fuccefs might more readily have been expedled, the limbs remained cold after the operatioOj no return of circula- tion took place, mortification at laft was induced, and the patients died. 3 FromSe6l. I* Of Aneurifms. 225 From this variety of fuccefs attending it, we find very contradidlory opinions held forth refpecfling this operation. While one condemns it as being never productive of any good, except in the very extreme parts of a member ; others aflert, that even the largeft artery of a limb may be operated upon with great probability of fuccefs. This contrariety of opinion, however, may, I think, be eafily explained, by what has been faid above refpeCling the age and habit of body of thofe on whom the ope-* ration is performed ; for, to the different powers of diflenfion with which the arte- rial fyftem is endowed at different periods of life, the good or bad fuccefs attend- ing it may with fufficient reafon be attri- buted : So that, although in an old in- firm perfon, it may have been found to fail perhaps in the under part of the leg or arm, this fliould by no means deter us from having recourfe to it, even in much higher fituations, in patients that are young and healthy. Having thus confidered the ufual appear- VoL. I. - P ances226 Of Aneurifms, Chap. IV. ances and caufes of anenrifm, together with the grounds upon which a juft prognofis is to be formed, we fliall now proceed to ; the method of cure. SECTION II. Of the Treatment of Aneurifms, JN every cafe of aneurifm the ufe of pref- fure has been indifcriminately recom- mended, not only in the incipient period of the difeafe, but even in its more advanced ftages. In a former chapter on Blood-letting, as well as in fome parts of this, different ' opportunities occurred for introducing the ' confideration of this fubjedt: To thefe we muft now refer ; and fhall at prefent at- tend to fuch points only as were not before fo particularly entered into. In the diffufed or falfe aneurifm pref- fure has been univerfally advifed, not only with a view to diflipate the fwelling al- ready induced, but in order to produce a reunion of the wound in the artery: We have already made it appear, however, as preffure in fuch cafes cannot be applied ta theI Sed. II. Of Jneurtfmso i! the artery alone, without at the fame time afFedling the veins ; and as this circum- flance, by producing an increafed refin- ance to the arterial pulfations, muft un- doubtedly force an additional quantity of blood to the orifice in the artery, that therefore no advantage is to be expected from it; but, on the contrary, that on many occafions there is reafon to fuppofe it has been productive of bad confequences. But although prefTure ought never to be attempted in any period of the diffufed aneurifm, yet in fome ftages of the other fpecies of the difeafe, it may be often ap- plied with advantage. In the early ftages of encyfted aneurifm, while the blood can be yet prefTed entirely out of the fac into the artery, it often hap- ! pens, by the ufe of a bandage of foft and j fomewhat elaflic materials, properly fitted to the part, that much maybe done inprevent- I ing the fwelling from receiving any degree of increafe; and on fome occafions, by the continued fupport thus given to the weaken- ed artery, complete cures have been at laft P 2 obtained.Of Aneurijms, Chap. IV. 228 obtained. In all fuch cafes, therefore, par- ticularly in every Inftance of the varicofe aneurifm, which we have already endea- voured to fliow can very feldom require the ufual operation, much advantage may be expelled from moderate preffure. But although preffure to a certain degree has frequently in cafes of encyfted aneu- rifm proved very ufeful, it ought never to be carried to any great length; for tight bandages in all fuch affe(5lions, by produ- cing an immoderate degree of reacflion in the containing parts to which they are ap- plied, inftead of anfwering the purpofe for which they were intended, have evi- dently the contrary effedl. Moderate com- preffion, therefore, is more eligible than a great degree of it; and indeed the greateft length to which preffure in fuch cafes ought to go, fliould be, to ferve as an eafyfupport to the parts affected, and no farther. While at the fame time we have recourfe to this remedy of coinprefHon, other means ought not to be omitted : The patient fliould be kept upon a low diet; when ne- ceffary,Se(5l. II. Of Aneurlfms. 22g P 3 tiog, ceflary, fome blood fliould be evacuated; the bowels fhould be kept lax; and all vio- lent exercife, particularly of the part af- fected, fhould be carefully guarded againfl:. In the latter ftages of aneurifm, when much tenfion and pain are induced, opiates are found very ufeful; and in many fuch ail- ments they are the only clafs of remedies from which any relief is obtained. The treatment here recommended ap- || plies to every aneurifm not intended to be i operated upon; but it is particularly proper in all fwellings of this kind fituated on the trunk of the body and other parts where the operation is inadmiffible. In fuch fi- '' tuations, indeed, an eafy fupport by means of gentle compreffion, a low diet in order to prevent a plethoric date of the veffels; repeated blood-lettings when plethora ac- tually exifts; a total abftinence from exer- cife; and the ufe of opiates when indicated by pain; are the only remedies from which much benefit is to be expected. Having thus pointed out the different remedies to be employed where the opera-230 Of Aneurtfms, Chap. IV. tion is either not confidered as proper, or ■where it is rendered inadmiffible by the li- tuation of the fwelling, we fhall now pro- ceed to defcribe the operation itfelf, on the fuppofition of its having become neceffary, either when the means recommended for the previous treatment of the diforder have failed, or when the tumor has made too great progrefs before proper afliftance was procured. The firft ftep in this operation ought to be, to obtain a full command of the cir- culation in the inferior part of the member by means of the tourniquet applied above. This being efFe(5led, the patient fhould be fo placed, that the difeafed limb, on being ftretched on a table, is found to be of a proper height for the furgeon, who, as the operation is generally tedious, ought to be feated. The limb being in this fituation properly fecured by an afliftant, the ope- rator is now with a fcalpel to make an in- cifion through the Ikin and cellular fub- ftance, along the whole courfe of the tu- mor ; and as it is a matter of much impor- tance to have a fufficient command of fpace fo|-Se(5l. II. Of Aneurlfms, 331 P 4 in for the remaining parts of the operation, it is even of ufe to carry this external in- ' cihon about half an inch both above and below the extremities of the fwelling : No mifchief can occur from the firft incifion being made very free and extenfive; and I have feen different inftances of the opera- tor being much embarralTed in the fubfe- quent fteps of the operation, by too much 1 timidity or perhaps ill-judged lenity in this part of it. I This being done, the ordinary method is, I to proceed in a very flow, cautious manner, I diffedting away one layer of the membrane after another, till the artery itfelf is laid bare. In this manner the operation is al- ways rendered exceedingly tedious, as the thicknefs of parts with which the artery is found covered, is often really aftonifhing, by one layer of a membranous fubftance having been formed after another, from the coagulable lymph of the blood con- tained in the tumor. In reality, however, there is no neceflity for this degree of caution, as the operation may in the fol- lowing manner be equally well performed,Afieunfms, Chap. IV, in a much fhorter fpace of time, and with much lefs pain to the patient. As foon as the external incifion has been made in the manner direded, fo as to divide the fliin and cellular fubftance, all the ef- fufed blood ought to be wiped off by means of a fpunge ; and the fofteft part of the tumor being difcovered, an opening ought there to be made into it with a lancet, large enough for admitting a finger of the operator’s left hand. This being done, and the finger introduced into the cavity of the tumor, it is now to be laid open from one extremity to the other, by running a blunt-pointed biftoury along the finger from below upwards, and afterwards from above downwards, fo as to lay the whole cavity fairly open. In Plate VII. fig. i. there is an exa6l reprefentation of this bi- ftoury, with a curve much lefs than ufual, as a very flight concavity anfwers every purpofe, and cuts more eafily than a great- er degree of curvature. The cavity of the tumor being thus laid freely open^ all the coagulated blood is nowOf Aneurifms, 233 Sea. II. now to be taken out: For which purpofe, |l a number of inflruments, particularly ' fcoops, have been invented by different j operators: but no inftrument anfwers this ! intention fo effeaually, and with fo much eafe to the patient, as the fingers of the I operator; who having in this manner re- ; moved all the coagulated blood, together with thofe tough membranous filaments commonly found here, the cavity of the tumor is now to be made quite dry, and cleared of the blood which on the fir ft opening of the fwelling is difcharged into i . it from the veins in the inferior part of the member; and this being effeaually ac- compliflied, the tourniquet muft be made perfeaiy flack and eafy, in order to difcover ! not only the artery itfelf, but the opening into it from whence the blood colleaed in the tumor has been all along difcharged. This being done, the next point to be determined, is, the manner of prevent- ing any farther effufion of blood into the aneurifmal fac. Various means have been propofed for accomplifhing this ; batOf Aneurifms, Chap. IV, 234 but the effe<5ls of all of them may be comprehended under the three following heads. I. The eifedts of ligature upon a large artery, having in fome inftances occafioned the lofs of the inferior part of the member, it was long ago propofed, that fo foon as the opening into the artery has been dif- covered, inflead of applying a ligature round it, which for certain is to obliterate its cavity entirely, a piece of agaric, vi- triol, alum, or any other aftringent fub- (tance, fliould be applied to the orifice, in order if poflible to produce a reunion of its fides. II. Upon the fame principle with the preceding, viz. that of ftill preferving the circulation in the artery, it was feveral years ago propofed by an eminent furgeon of NewcafUe, Mr Lambert, that the orifice in the artery fhould be fecured by means of the twifted future. A fmall needle being puftied through the edges of the wound, they are then diredled to be drawn together by a thread properly twifted roundSea.IL Of Aneurifms, m round the needle, in the manner formerly j advifed when treating of futures Strong objeaions, however, occur to both of thefe methods. In the firft place, no aftringent application with which we are acquainted, is pofTeffed of fuch powers as to deferve much confidence; for, al- though different articles of this kind have on various occafions proved a means of ! putting a temporary flop to hemorrhagies, ' yet there are very few inftances properly authenticated, of their having produced I any permanent advantage. In almoft I every inftance in which they have been I ufed, the hemorrhagy has recurred again and again, fo as to prove very diftreffmg, not only to the patient, but to the pracli- i* tioner in attendance; fo that from this want of fuccefs, little or no attention is [ now paid to remedies of this kind in ordi- nary pradlice. With regard to Mr Lambert’s method of ftitching the orifice in the artery, it is certainly * Vide London Medical Obfervations, Vol. II. Ar-? tide XXX.23^ Q/*^neurlfms. Chap. IV. certainly a very ingenious propofal, and would in all probability, at leaft in moft inftances, prove an efFedual flop to all farther difcharge of blood; but as it has hitherto, at leaft fo far as I have heard, been only attempted in one inftance, far- ther experience of its effecfts is neceffary before it can with propriety be either rejected or approved. But, if in fuch a matter reafoning may be indulged, we would beg leave to obferve, that two material objedions occur to this prac- tice. One is, that in the operation for the aneurifm, in almoft every inftance, a very few only excepted, the artery lies at the back part of the tumor; fo that when all the colleded blood is removed, there is fuch a depth of wound, that it muft be always a very difficult matter, and on many occafions quite impradicable, to perform this nice operation upon the ar- tery, with that attention and exadlnefs which, in order to infure fuccefs, it cer- tainly requires. It has now and then hap- pened indeed, that in this operation the arterySedl. II. Of Aneurfms. 237 ! artery has been found to be on the anterior part of the tumor, and in fuch a Iituation the wound in it would no doubt prove ac- [! ceflible enough. This, however, is a very rare occurrence, as in almofl every inftance of diffufed aneurifm the artery lies at the I very bottom of the tumor, the blood being colle(fled between it and the com- I mon teguments ; and accordingly I have I feen feveral inftances of this diforder, in i which, after the tumor was laid freely open, the artery was found to lie fo deep as would have rendered it quite impoffible I to perform this operation. I But there is another very material ob- jedlion which a priori evidently occurs to I the pra6lice recommended by Mr Lam- I bert. By introducing a needle thro’ the lides of the orifice, and drawing thefe to- gether by a ligature, the cavity of the ar- I tery muft undoubtedly be at that point (j much diminifhed. Indeed Mr Lambert, in his account of the cafe in which this ope- l ration was performed, acknowledges that ! the diameter of the artery was thereby di- minifhed.238 Of Aneunfms, Chap. IV, minifhed. Now, the pafTage of the blood being thus contraded at one point, the impulfe upon that particular part muft be very coniiderable: So that the very remedy employed for the cure of one fpecies of aneurifm» will in all probability prove a very powerful agent in inducing another; for the blood being thus obftrudled in its ufual courfe, there will be no fmall dan- ger incurred, of a dilatation being produced immediately above this preternatural ftric- ture. 1 muft fairly acknowledge, however, that all I have advanced, proceeds from reafon- ing alone, and is not as yet fupported by experience. But, if farther trials of this operation tend to ftiow that the objections now ftated againft it are not well founded, no perfon whatever will be more ready than I fliall be in adopting it; for, if thefe objections were removed, this operation, as propofed by Mr Lambert, 1 fhould con- fider as deferving to be ranked among the moft important improvements which in modern times furgery has acquired. In I the239 Sea. II. Of Aneiirifnu, the treatment of aneurifm by the common operation, if the principal artery of a limb is concerned, fome rilk is always incurred, not only of injuring the parts below in a mofl material manner, but even of deftroy- ing them entirely, by depriving them of the quantity of blood neceflary for their fupport. Now, by Mr Lambert’s im- provement, an effeaual flop is put to the farther evacuation of blood, while at the fame time the circulation in the difeafed artery is flill preferved; fo that if farther experience of its effedls lhall fhow that the obj eclions we have ventured to bring againft it are not well founded, it will defervedly be admitted as a very material improve- ment in the treatment of this fpecies of aneurifm. III. Neither of the methods we have yet I been confidering, being found eligible ' for fecuring the orifice in the artery, we fhall now proceed to deferibe the ordi- ! nary manner of performing this operation, which conlifts in obliterating the arterial cavityOf AneurfniSi Chap. IV^ 240 cavity entirely, by means of ligatures j and the method of doing it is this. The artery being laid bare in the man- ner diredled, and all the coagulated blood being carefully removed from the cavity of the tumor, on the tourniquet being now llackened fo as to bring the orifice in the artepy into view, a fmall probe is to be introduced at the opening, with a view to raife the artery from the neighbouring parts, fo as that the furgeon may be en- abled with certainty to pafs a ligature round it without comprehending the con- tiguous nerves, which in general run very near to the large blood-veffels of a limb. By this precaution, the nerves may be always avoided ; and by doing fo, a great deal of mifchief may be prevented, which other wife in all probability might fuper- vene. When the diforder is fituated either in the ham, or in the ufual place of blood- letting in the arm, bending the joints of the knee or of the elbow, as it relaxes the artery a little, renders this part of the operation more eafily effected, than I whenOf Aneurlfi'ns. Sea. II. 245 when the limbs are kept fully extend- ed. The artery being thus gently feparated from the contiguous parts, a iirm, broad, waxed ligature mull be paifed round it, about the eighth part of an inch above the orifice, and another muft in the fame manner be introduced at the fame diflance below it. Much harm, I am convinced, has been done by pafTing the ligature fo far diftant from the orifice as is commonly praaifed; for the rifli of lofing the be- nefit of anaftomofing branches will be al- ways increafed in proportion to the extent of artery included between the ligatures. The eafiefl method of introducing the ligatures, is by means of a blunt curved needle ; and the form reprefented in PI. V. fig. 2. will be found more convenient for this purpofe than any other. An ordinary fliarp needle is commonly made ufe of for this purpofe; but it does not anfwer the intention fo well as the one here recom- mended : By the fliarpnefs of its points it is apt to injure the contiguous parts ; and ■'■Von. I. O vvdieii^42 Of Aneurifns, Chap. IV. when the common crooked needle is ufed with a fharp edge on its concave fide, there mufl even be fome rifit of its wounding the under part of the artery, as in this fi- tuation it cannot be introduced without making part of the needle pals quite in conta6l with the coats of the artery. The blunt needle is not liable to either of thefe objedlions ; and befides, when of th^ form here reprefented, it is more eafily in- troduced than any of the needles com- monly ufed in this operation. The ligatures being both pafled in the manner dire(5ted, the upper one is now to be tied with a firmnefs fufficient for com- prefling the fides of the artery. The direc- tions formerly given for forming the knot upon bleeding-veflels in other parts, will apply with equal propriety here: The ends of the ligature ought by all means to be twice pafled through thefirftnoofe, and this fliould again be farther fecured by a Angle knot made above it. By many writers on this fubje(5l, a fmall bolfter of linen is or- dered to be inferted between the artery andOf Anetirfms^ Hi Sea. II. and the knotj in order to prevent the ar- tery from being cut by it. This, however^ is a very unneceflary precaution; for if the whole artery is not furrounded with the bolder, it will be juft as liable to be cut by the ligature at any other part, as where the knot is fixed: And befides, as we have already very fully remarked, there is no occafion whatever for making the liga- ture fo tight on arteries as to run any rifle of dividing them; a much lefs degree of pref- fure than is either commonly applied, or could have any influence in hurting them^ being fully fuflicient for comprefling them in the moft effetftual manner. The upper ligature being thus finifliedj before the knot is pafled upon the other below the orifice, the tourniquet otight fo be untwifted, in order to fee whether any blood is now difeharged by the wound in the artery or not. If blood flows in any j confiderable quantity^ it affords a pleafant prolpedl of the fuccefs with which the ope- ration will in all probability be attended, as it clearly fliowSj that the anaftomofing ' 0^2 branchesOf AneuHfms. Chap. IV. 244 branches from the fuperior part of the ar- tery are confiderable enough for carrying on at leaft a tolerable degree of circulation in the under part of the member. At the fame time, however, although blood ftiould not be difcharged at this time by the ori- fice, we are by no means, from this circum- ftance alone, to defpair of fuccefs; for it frequently happens that the operation fuc- ceeds in a very effecElual manner, although no blood whatever is difcharged on the trial now recommended. But whether any blood ftiould be dif- charged by this trial or not, we are not to reft fatisfied with one ligature; for unlefs the ligature below the orifice be alfo tied, there is always a rifk, on the return of cir- cul^ion to the under part of the artery, of blood pafling out at the orifice : This precaution, therefore, ftiould never be omit- ted ; it is eafily done, and it renders the pa- tient quite fecure againft all farther eva- cuation of blood by the orifice. After the knots have been put upon the ligatures, thefe ftiould be cut of fuch a length that their ends3ed. II. Of Aneurifms. 245 ends may lie fully out over the edges of the wound, fo that when neceffary they may be more eafily withdrawn. By way of greater fecurity in this ope- ration, it has been advifed to infert other two ligatures quite contiguous to the for- mer, and to leave them untied, fo that if any of the others fhould happen to fail its place may be immediately fupplied. There is not, however, any neceffity for this precaution, for, if the firft ligatures are properly applied, there can be no doubt of their anfwering the purpofe ; and in cafe either one or both of them fhould give way, they can be very eafily renewed ; In the mean time, too, the patient is ren- dered fafe againft any fudden lofs of blood by the tourniquet being left loofe upon the upper part of the member, which it ought by all means to be for feveral days after the operation, fo that, in the event of blood burfling from the wound, it may be fecured by means of it, much more rea- dily than if it depended on the tying of 1% ligature. 0.3 TheOf Aneurijms^ Chap. IV, ?46 The ligatures being both finifhed in the manner direifled, the tourniquet is now tq be made quite loofe; and if no blood is difcharged at the orifice in the artery, we may then reft fatisfied that the operation is fo far properly completed. The wound is now to be lightly covered with foft lint, with a pledget of any emol-r lient ointment over the whole; and a com- prefs of linen being applied over the dref- lings, all the bandage in any degree requi- fite, is, two or three turns of a roller above, and as many below the centre of the wound, making it prefs with no more tightnefs than is abfolutely neceflary for retaining the applications we havejuftnow mentioned. The patient being now put into bed, the member fhould be laid in a relaxed pofture upon a pillow, and ought to be fb placed as to create the leaft poflible uneafi- nefs from the pofture in which it is laid. As the operation for the aneurifm is al- ways tedious, and produces much pain and irritation, a full dofe of laudanum fliould be given immediately on the patient being gotOf Aneurlfms, Sea. II. 24? 0.4 ingh got into bed. In order to diminifh fenfi- bility during fome of the more capital ope- rations, I have made different trials of opi- ates given about an hour before the ope- ration : On fome occaiions, this proved evidently very ufeful; but on others, it feemed to do harm; particularly in weak, neJTN’ous conflitutions, in which with any dofes I ever ventured upon, the patients appeared to be rendered more irritable and more fufceptible of pain, than if no opiate had been given. Immediately after this operation,' however, an opiate ought to be exhibited, and repeated occafionally according to the degrees of pain and reft- leffnefs. In fome few cafes of aneurifm it has hap- pened, that the pulfe in the under part of the member has been perceptible immedi- ately after the operation. This, however, is a very rare occurrence: For as this diforder is feldom met with in any other part than at the joint of the elbowas a confequence of blood-letting, and as it rarely happens that the brachial artery divides till it paffes an24^ Aneurlfms, Chap. IV, inch or two below that place, the trunk of this artery is therefore moft frequently wounded; and when accordingly the ligar ture in this operation is made to obftrudl the paflage of almoft the whole blood that went to the under part of the arm, there cannot be the lead reafon to expect any pulfation at the wrift, till in a gradual manner the anaftomofing branches of the artery have become fo much enlarged, as to rranfmit fuch a quantity of blood to the inferior part of the member, as is fufEcient for acting as a Itimulus to the larger branches of the artery. Immediately after the operation, the pa- tient complains of an unufual numbnefs or want of feeling in the whole member; and as it generally for a few hours be- comes cold, it is therefore right to keep it properly covered with warm foft flannel; and in order to ferve as a gentle flimulus to the parts below, moderate fridtions appear to be of ufe. In the fpace of ten or twleve hours from the operation, although the numbnefs ftill continues, the heat of the partqSed. II. ^49 Of Aneurtfms, parts generally begins to return; and it frequently happens in the courfe of a few hours more, that all the inferior part of the member becomes even preternaturally warm. Although phyliological difcuITions are not immediately conneded with our fub- jed, and although for that reafon we Ihall not often enter into them; yet we can- not here avoid remarking the very clear proof which after this operation always oc- curs, of the great dependence one part of the human frame has upon another. The nerves we know to be the inftruments of fenfe and motion; but on being deprived gf their ufual fupport from the fanguiferous fyftem, their influence immediately diminilhes. Immediately after this operation, the want of feeling in the part^ is often very great; and in proportion as the circulation in the under part of the member becomes more confiderable,'the degree of feeling alfo augments. If we could fuppofe the nerves of the parts below to be always included in the ligature with the artery, chat numb- nefsOf Aneurifms, Chap. IV. nefs which fucceeds immediately to the operation, might be eafily accounted for; but I have known it happen, when I was certain that nothing but the artery was fecured-by the ligature: And befides, al- though the knot upon the nerves would account for the immediate lofs of fenfi- bility which fucceeds to the operation, it would not in any degree ferve to explain the return of feeling on the circulation be- ing again reftored; for the nerve having been deftroyed by the efFedsof the ligature, if the want of feeling produced here origi- nated entirely from that circumftance, it could not be expedled to be much influen- ced by the return of blood to the part. In the mean time the patient being pro- perly attended to as to regimen, by giving him cordials and nourifhing diet when low and reduced, and confining him to a low diet if his conftitution is plethoric, the limb being flill kept in an eafy relaxed poflure, towards the end of the fourth or fifth day, fometimes I have known it much fooner, a very weak feeble pulfe is difcovered251 Sea. II. Of Aneur'ifms, dircovered in the under part of the mem- ber, which becoming flronger in a gradual manner, the patient in the fame proportion, recovers the ufe and feeling of the parts. As foon as there is an appearance of mat- ter having formed freely about the fore, which will feldom happen before the fifth or fixth day, an emollient poultice fhould be applied over it for a few hours, in order to foften the drefllngs, which may be then removed. At this time, too, the ligatures might be taken away; but as their conti- 9 nuance for a day or two longer can do no ' harm, it is better to allow them to remain till the fecond or third drefling, when they either drop off of themfelves, or may be taken away with perfedl fafety. The dref- fings, which fhould always be of the fofteft materials, being renewed every fecond or third day according to the quantity of matter produced, the fore is in general found to heal very eafily; and although the patient may for a confiderable time complain of a great degree of numb- ^efs and want of ftrength in the whole courfeOf Aneurlfmst Chap. IV, 252 courfe of the difeafed limb, yet in moft inftances a very free ufe of it is at laft ob-^ tained. It will be readily fuppofed, that the ter- mination of this operation as we have here defcribed it, is the moft favourable that can poflibly happen. In fome inftances, the fuccefs attending it is far from being fo complete: Inftead of a return of circu- lation, and of the feeling and ufe of the parts, they remain cold and infenfible, and no marks of returning life are perceived. From a mere want of blood, therefore, mor- tification at laft commences; and as na- ture is here deprived of one of her princi- pal agents for the removal or feparation of gangrenous parts, I mean the efforts of the fanguiferous fyftem, whenever the parts in fuch circumftances begin to mortify, no- thing can prevent their progrefs to the ul- timate ftage of that malady. Whenever mortification enfues, there- fore, as aconfequenceofthis operation, if the patient furvives the immediate effeds of it ^ill a feparation occurs between the healthy and ]Se6l. II. Of Aneurifms. 255 and difeafed parts, amputation of the mem- ber will then be the only refource. That this operation when pradlifed upon the principal artery of the fuperior part of a member, doe's now and then terminate in this manner, no pradlitioner of experi- ence will deny; but its doing fo in fome inflances, .is not a fufEcient reafon for re- jedling it in every cafe. The event of every capital operation we know to be very un- certain ; and in this, as in every other of equal importance, as we cannot in any cafe fay with, precifion how it is to anfwer, fo we are never to put it in practice where means of a lels hazardous nature will fuc- ceed: And on the contrary, whenever thefe are found to fail, and the patient’s life comes to be in danger, it ought undoubt- edly to be performed without farther hefi- tation. CHAP.’254 Of HernU» Chap. V. CHAP. V. Of H E R N I jE, SECTION I. Of Hernia in general, HE term Hernia might with propriety be applied, to every fwelling occa- fioned by the diflodgement of pares from thofe boundaries within which in a ftate of health they are contained j but the term in its general acceptation, implies, a tumor produced by the protrufion of fomepartor parts from the cavity of the abdomen. The parts in which thefe fwellings ufn- ally appear, are the groin, ferotum, labia I pudendiySe6l. I. 255 Of Hernice* pudendi, the upper and fore part of the thigh, the umbilicus, and different points between the interftices of the abdominal mufcles. If the fituation of fuch tumors be va- rious, the vifcera which they contain are Aill more fo; inftances having occurred of the ftomach, uterus, liver, fpleen, and blad- der, being found to form their contents. But a part of the inteftinal canal, or a por- tion of the omentum, are from experience known to be the mod frequent caufe of their formation. From thefe circumftances of fituation and contents, all the different appellations are derived by which herniae are diftin- guiflied. Thus they are termed Inguinal, Scrotal, Femoral, Umbilical, and Ventral; from their appearing in the groin, fcro- tum, thigh, navel, or belly. When the tumor is confined to the groin, the hernia is faid to be incomplete, and is termed Bu- bonocele ; but,' when the fwelling reaches down to the bottom of the fcrotum, the rupture is then fuppofed to be complete, and^ 5 ^ Hernia k Ch’af^. Vi and the difeafe obtains the name of Scro- tal Rupture, or Ofchiocele. When a portion of gut alone forms the tumor, it is called an Enterocele, or Intefti- nal Hernia; when a piece of omentum only has got down, it is termed Epiplocelcj or Omental Hernia; and if both inteftine aind omentum are down, it is called an Entero-epiplocele, or Compound Rupture. As all the abdominal vifcera are appa- rently contained within the cavity of the peritoncEum, and as it was thought im- polTible for that membrane to admit of fuch a degree of diftenfion, as to furround tumors containing fuch large portions of the different vifcera as are at times pro- truded, it was therefore commonly fup- pofed, that in at leaf! the greatefl number of cafes of hernia, the peritonaeum muft cer- tainly be burft or ruptured; and from this the term Rupture was in all fuch inftances fuppofed to be applied with propriety enough. The idea was farther confirmed too, from its having been obferved, that in cafes of fcrotal hernia, the protruded vif- cera 1Sedl. I. Of liernicu, ” 257 cera were in feme inftances found in con- ta(5l with the teflicle; a circumftance, which it was fuppofed could not pofTibly happen, if the peritonseum had not been previoufly ruptured. Since the anatomy of thefe parts, how- ever, was better underflood, this circum- flancCj of parts protruded from the ab- domen being on fome occafions found in contadl with the teflicle, is explained in a more fatisfadlory manner than on thefup- pofition of a rupture of the peritonaeum; an occurrence which we fuppofe will very rarely happen, in any other manner than from external violence: But as the nature of thefe diforders cannot be properly un- derflood without a previous knowledge of the anatomy of the parts concerned, it will be proper, before proceeding farther, to deferibe fuch as here become the more immediate fubjecfls of operation; and thefe i are, a part of the abdominal mufcles; the peritonaeum; teflicles j and fpermatic veffels. The fides and other flefhy boundaries VoL. I. R ofI Of Hernia» Chap. V. of the abdomen are formed by five pairs of mufcles ; viz. the re(5ti, pyramidales, tranfverfales, obliqui interni, and obliqui externi. In fome fubjecfls, the pyramidales are wanting; and as the obliqui externi are in general thofe which in cafes of hernia come to be moft connedled with the dif- order, we fhall here confine our defcrip-* tion to the anatomy of thefe only. The obliqui externi are two thin, broad mufcles: on their poflerior and upper parts they are flefhy; and tendinous on their anterior and lower parts. They origi- nate from the eighth, ninth, and inferior ribs, by flelhy portions which intermix in a ferrated manner with correfponding parts of the latifiimus dorfi, ferratus ma- jor anticus, pedloralis major^ and inter- cofhales: And afterwards becoming ten- dinous, they form the greateft part of all the anterior furface of the abdomen, and are inferred into the linea alba, the fpine of the os ileum, and into the os pubis. On each fide of the under part of the abdo- menSedl. I. Of Bernict, 259 men immediately above the pubes, two openings are met with in thefe tendons, intended for the pafTage of the fpermatic veflels in men, and for the ligaments of the womb in women. Thefe openings, or rings as they are termed, which feem to be formed merely by a feparation of the fibres of the tendon from one another, are of an oval figure, and have an oblique direction from the fpine of the ileum downwards; they are fomewhat wider above than be- low, and are rather of a larger fize in men than in women. Although thefe tings or openings have been commonly defcribed as palling thro’ not only the external oblique, but the tranfverfales and internal oblique mufcles alfo; yet it is now certainly known, that it is in the tendinous parts of the external oblique m.ufcle only, that any fuch opening exifts. It is of fome importance to the ftu- dent to be thoroughly acquainted with this circumftance; for, by the accounts recei- ved of it from books, one is led to fuppofe, that, inftead of one diftinft pafiage, there R 2 areOf Hernia. a6a Chap.V^ are always three to be met with here. Thefe- mufcles are likewife perforated in the middle by the umbilicus, which affords a paffage for the connecSling veffels between the mother and uterine foetus, and which is continued through life, being filled up by cellular fubftance only. From the inferior border of the tendi- nous part of the external oblique mufcle, a detachment of fibres is fent off, which, after affording a firm covering to the in- guinal glands, are lofl in the fafcia lata of the thigh : And the under edge of this tendon being folded inwards, obtains the appearance of a ligament, which flrecches from the fore part of the os ileum to the pubes, forming a kind of arch, through which pafs the great blood-veffels of the lower extremity. It is this ligamentous- like portion of the external oblique mufcle, which is known by the appellation of Pou- part’s or Fallopius’s ligament. This paffage for the blood-veffels of the thigh, being larger in women than in men, owing to the greater fize of the pelvis in theSe6l. I. Of Hernia, n^6t R 3 along riie former, by which the arch formed by Poupart’s ligament is rendered both longer and wider; fo in them the crural hernia, or that fpecles of the difeafe formed by a protrufion of parts through this paflage, is found to occur much more frequently than in men. The internal furface of the mufcles of the abdomen, together with every other part of that cavity, is lined with a fmooth ibmewhat elaftic membrane, termed Peri- tonaeum. This membrane, befides lining the cavity of the belly, furniflies the exter- nal covering to almoft every vifcus con- tained in it; but, in fo fingular a manner are thefe coverings produced, that altho’ at firft fight the different vifcera appear all to be contained within the cavity of the peritonaeum, yet on a minute examination they are in reality found to lie behind it. The peritonaeum, after having complete- ly lined the cavity of the abdomen, is con- tinued or refledled over all the vifcera, fo as to give an external covering to each. After furrounding one vifcus, it ftretches262 Chap.V. Of Hernia, along to the moft contiguous, forming in its courfe the fupporting membranous li- gaments of the liver and other vifcera; and affording in its duplicature a kind of fup- port or connexion to the various blood- veffels, as they ftretch along to their de- flined fituations in the inteflinal canal and other organs. Behind the peritoneum lies a quantity of loofe cellular fubftance, by authors commonly termed its Appendix. In fome parts this fubftance is filled with fat; and in others it is empty, and can eafily be filled with air. The teftes in the foetus are, till near the period of delivery, lodged in the cavity of the abdomen, in the fame manner with the reft of the abdominal vifcera. They are fituated immediately below the kid- neys, on the fore part of the pfoas mufcles, near to the upper end and by the fide of the redtum, where their external covering adheres by its pofterior furface to thofe parts of the peritonseum on which they reft, while all their anterior and lateral furfaces lie263 Sedl. r. Of Hernue, lie loofe in the abdominal cavity in conta^l with the other vifcera. Even in this licua- tion, however, a connedlion takes place be- tween the teftes and fcrotnm. This is form- ed by means of a fubftance which runs down from the under end of the teflis to the fcro- tum, forming a kind of pyramidal fliaped ligament; its large bulbous head being fixed to the lower end of the teftis and epi- didymis ; and its under extremity, after having pafTed through the ring in the exter- nal oblique mufcle, being loft in the cellular membrane of the fcrotum. This ligament is evidently vafcular and fibrous, and feems in part to be compofed of the cremafter mufcle turned inwards*. All that portion of the ligament con- tained within the parietes of the abdomen palfes behind the peritonseum, and receives a covering from it in the fame manner with the teftes and other vifcera; and the peri- toneum even gives a coat to a portion of R 4 the * See avery accurate account of the Anatomy of thefe parts by Mr J. Hunter, in Dr Hunter’s Medical Commentaries.264 Of Herm<s. Chap. V. the ligament after it has got into the groin, by pafling down along with it from the ab- domen into the upper part of the inguen. At this place, viz. at the annular open- ing of the external oblique mufcle, the peritonaeum is very loofe ; and when the ligament and fcrotum are drawn down- wards, an aperture is obferved from the cavity of the abdomen all around the fore part of the ligament, which feems ready to receive the teftis; and this aperture gra- , dually becomes larger as the teftis defcends behind the peritonaeum in its way to the fcrotum. When the tefticle is ready to ' defcend, it does not fall down, as has been J commonly imagined, along the fore part of the peritonaeum, between it and the other t vifcera ; but this ligament we have now defcribed as lying behind the peritonaeum, and which is conne6led with the teftis at its under and pofterior parts, by di- recting or pulling it down as it were from behind, brings it in this manner along the pfoas mufcle between it and the perito- naeum j and chat part of this membrane toOf Hernia, Se6l. I. 265 ( to which we have fliown that the tefUcle adheres, being neceflarily drawn along with it, a kind of pouch or bag, fome- what refembling the finger of a glove, is thus formed by this elongation of the pe- ritonaeum ; the under extremity of which ftill continues to furround the tefiis as it goes along, in the fame manner as it did v/hen that vifcus refled upon the pfoas mufcle; and the entrance from the abdo- men to the cavity of this procefs, is exadfly at that point where the tefiis was origi- nally fituated ; for it is there that this pro- cefs commences when the tefiis begins to defeend. The peritonaeum being in a foetus re- markably lax and dilatable at this part, and being connefled pofteriorly, as we have feen, with a quantity of very loofe cellular fubfiance, its elongation produced by the defeent of the tefiicle is in this manner provided for by nature, and of courfe is eafily admitted of. It mufi not, however, be fuppofed, that the tefiis and peritonseum in coming down fall266 Of HernU, Chap. V. fall loofely and without connexion ; for, as they Aide down very gradually, they fUll continue to adhere to the parts lying behind them as they did when in the ab- domen. The precife time at which the teftis paffes down from its original lituation in the ab- domen, cannot beexacflly determined ; but in general, this change takes place about the eighth month. About this period, the teftis furrounded with the peritoneal procefs, moves downwards till its under extremity comes into contadl with the moft inferior point of the abdominal parietes ; and by this time the paflage through the tendon of the external oblique mufcle is found a good deal enlarged, by the ligament of the teftis having funk downwards fo as to pro- duce a confiderable dilatation of it. After the teftis has pafled the tendon of the mufcle, it commonly remains for fome time by the fide of the penis, and by de- grees only defcends to the bottom of the fcrotum; and even when it has got entirely into the fcrotum, its ligament is ftill con- ne<ftedSea. I. Of Hcrnics^ 267 neaed widi it, and lies immediately under ic, but is fliortened and comprefTed. The procefs of the peritonaeum, which we have fliown to defcend with the tefticle, continues to cover it when it has reached the fcrotum; and it is this loofe covering ‘ or bag which is afterwards converted into s ^ what Anatomifts term the Tunica Vaginalis Tef ls; and from the defcription we have given of it, it is evident, that the cavity of this bag muft at firft communicate with the great peritoneal cavity of the abdomen. This it accordingly does, as a probe may be pafled readily and eafily along this pro- cefs or bag, from the belly down to the bottom of the fcrotum; and if it be laid open through its whole length on the fore part, it will be plainly feen to be a conti- nuation of the peritonseum; the teftis and epididymis will be found at the lower part of it without their loofe coat the tunica vaginalis; and as the fpermatic vefTels and vas deferens, while the tefticle remained in the abdomen, entered the body of it be- liind, and between the refleded lamina of theOf Hernm. Chap. V. 268 the peritonseum, fo here when in the fcro- tum they will be found covered by thepof- terior part of the bag, in their whole courfe from the commencement of that procefs down the groin to the telUcle. This pafTage from the cavity of the ab- domen to the fcrotum is in general very foon cut off, by a firm adhefion being pro- duced between the fides of the peritoneal procefs at its upper extremity where it de- fcends from the abdomen. What the caufe of this adhefion may be, is uncertain; per- haps it may proceed from fome flight de- gree of inflammation being excited upon the contiguous parts by the forcible pafTage of the teftis ; but whatever the caufe may be, the fa61 is, that at the time of birth this pafTage in general is completely obli- terated It * The defcent of the teftes from the abdomen Is a phenomenon very difBcult to account for, and its im- mediate caufe may probably always remain a myfteryj but (heir being in almoll every inftance found in the fprotum before birth, is a clear proof of their not be- ing forced down by the effedts of refpiration, as has teeu commonly fuppofed.Of Hernue, Sect. I. 269 It is in the neck only, however, or fu- perior part of this procefs, that fuch an ad- liefion takes place; as the lower extremity of the fac remains open and loofe through life, and forms, as we have already faid, the tunica vaginalis teltis; the common, feat of a hydrocele. If the fmaiiefi; attention be given to this defcription, it mull appear evident, that if immediately upon the tefticle defcending from the abdomen, and before the paffage is fufficiently contradled, any portion of the alimentary canal or omentum Ihould likewife fall into the opening, fuch parts in Lift for certain lodge in the fame bag or covering with the teftis itfelf; and that as long as they remain there, they muft effedlually prevent the ufual oblite- ration of the palfage from being accom- plifhed. It is this occurrence, of a portion of fome of the abdominal vifcera getting into the tunica vaginalis teftis, which forms that fpecies of hernia to which new-born infants are liable, termed by Haller the Hernia270 of Hern'i(Z. Chap. Vi Hernia Congenita. The tefticle and pro- truded inteftine being here in contact with one another, the tunica vaginalis teftis forms the hernial fac. If the gut, or other parts which have fallen down, be again pufhed into the ab- domen, and are retained there by proper bandages or any other means, in that cafe the paflage is foon clofed up, and no re- turn of the diforder is obferved. But this being neglecfled, and the gut being allowed to remain long down, the parts forming the palTage feem thereby in a great mea- fure to lofe that power of adhefion which naturally they are known to pofTefs ; in- ftances of fuch cafes having occurred where no art has been able to produce this wifhed-for obliteration of the opening. The herina congenita is ufually pro- duced in the manner now defcribed; it is probable, however^ that the fame diforder may, and frequently does, occur, from this paflage between the abdomen and tefticle, after having been once clofed, being again rendered pervious, in confequence of the 3 partsSed.L Of Bernls, 271 parts being over-ftretched by thofe vio- lent fits of coughing, crying, and other convulfive affedlions to which children foon after birth are now and then’ li- able. The inteftinal canal and other vif- cera, being on fuch occafions puflied with violence againft all the containing parts, thefe will mofl eafily give way where the leaf!: degree of firmnefs occurs ; and this we may readily fuppofe will moll probably happen in fuch parts as have been moll recently united. In this manner it is pro- bable that the greatell proportion of thofe , cafes of hernia are produced which occur in the early months of infancy ; and I am even inclined to think, that on fome occa- fions in more advanced periods of life, the fame fpecies of hernia may likewife occur from the fame caufe. It is evident, then, in what manner the hernia congenita is produced; we fhall now inquire into the caufes which tend to the produdion of hernia in its more ufiial form. I. The containing parts of the abdomen weOf Hernia, 272 Chap. V. we know to be elaftic and compreffible; whatever, therefore, tends to produce a di- minution of capacity in the cavity of the abdomen, muft occafion a proportional degree of rifk, of fome of the contained .parts being pufhed from their natural fi- tuations. Violent coughing, crying, laugh- ter, or great bodily exertion, are attended with more or lefs contraction of the ab- dominal mufcles, and particularly of the diaphragm; and as the contraction of thefe mufcles, muft always diminifh the abdominal cavity, thefe caufes therefore are frequently found to be productive of hernia. II. Falls, in confequence of the derange- ment they produce in the abdominal vif- cera, from t’ e fudden and violent fliock with which they are often attended, are not unfrequently the immediate caufes of hernia. III. Perfons of a preternatural laxity of frame, are very liable to herniae. The containing parts of the abdomen, from the want of a fufficient tone and firmnefs, are 7 unableSedl. I. Of Herni£, 273 unable in fuch people to refill; on all oc-* cafions the weight of the different vifcera; and they are therefore more particularly expofed to diforders of this kind on the fiightefl application of any of the caufes already mentioned* IV. Sprains are apt to induce a laxity of the part injured; and have therefore a fimilar influence in inducing hernise, 'with general laxity. V. It has been obferved, that the peo- ple of thofe countries where oil is much ufed as an article of diet, are particularly liable to hernise* In whatever parts the parietes of the ab- domen happen to be weakeft, thefe various caufes will moft readily operate in produ- cing herniae; and accordingly we find, that defcents of the bowels ufually occur only in fuch parts. The parts which from anatomy vve would h priori fufpe(!d to be moft liable to fuch protrufions, are, the openings already de- fcribed in the external oblique mufcles 5 the arch formed by Poupart’s ligament for VoL, I. S theChap.V. Of Hernia, 274 the paiTage of the great blood-veffels of the thigh ; and the umbilicus, where the fame degree of firmnefs does not take place as is met with in the reft of the tendinous ex- panfion of the abdominal mufcles. Thefe, as we have already faid, are the ufual feats of hernia; but it fometimes happens that parts of the vifcera are pro- truded between the interftices of the diffe- rent mufcles of the abdomen: Thefe, how- ever, are not frequent occurrences. In whichever of thefe fituations a pro- trufion of any portion of the inteftines oc- curs, except in the cafe of the hernia con- genita, as all the vifcera are contained in the manner already defcribed within the peritonaeum, a portion of that .membrane, it is evident, muft be carried down to- gether with the parts protruded ; and in every fuch inftance, it is this portion of the peritonaeum which goes down along with the gut that is termed the Hernial Sac. The fize of this fac is various in dif- ferent fubjecfts, and in different ft ages of the fame diforder. On^IS Of Hernii^. Sea. I. On the firft appearance of the dlfeafe, the fac is commonly of no very coniider- able fize, as fuch fwellings feldom acquire any great bulk at once: But by repeated defcents of the bowels, the fac comes to be puflied lower and lower, till in fome inflances its bulk becomes very confider- able indeed; and when in this advanced period of the diforder the fac happens to be laid open, it is found to contain either large quantities of omentum or inteftine, and frequently large portions of each. As the peritonsEum has this property in common with many other parts of the body, of thickening according to the de- gree of any gradual extenlion applied to itj fo in many inflances the thicknefs and firmnefs of the hernial fac are often really aflonilhing. Although every inflance of a bowel pro- truded from its natural fituation is to be conlidered as a derangement, and as fuch demands our attention, yet daily inflances occur, both of recent hernise, and of th-ofe of longer ftanding, in which no bad fymp- S 2 toms276 Of HcrnU, ' Chap. V, toms are produced by fuch protrufions of the vifcera. Thus it is well known, that hernial fwellings of every kind very frequently happen, without the patient fuffering in any other manner, than from the inconvenience arifing from the bulk of the tumors. But in general this is otherwife; troublefome fymptoms mofk frequently occur; and at all events, when the redudlion of a hernia can be ac- compliflied with any kind of propriety, it ought always to be effeded as quickly as poffible. All the bad fymptoms which are found to occur in hernise, proceed, as may be feadily fuppofed, either from obftrudion to the paffage of the faeces when the inte- llinal canal forms the tumor, or from a floppage of circulation occafioned by flridure on the prolapfed parts ; fo that the attending fymptoms, it is evident, will be always more or lefs hazardous, ac- cording to the nature of the parts fo pro- truded. Thus, when a portion of the omentum ' * aloneSc6l. I. Of Hernia, 277 alone forms the fubftance of hernial fwel- lings, as that organ does not appear to be fo immediately neceffary to life as many of the other vifcera, fuch tumors accordingly are not fo frequently produdive of bad confequences, at lead they are feldom in any degree fo hazardous, as when a part of the alimentary canal is either protruded by itfelf, or along with omentum. Although this, however, is in general the cafe; yet it does fometimes happen, that even an omental rupture is produdive of no fmall degree of danger. When a ftric- ture fo complete upon it occurs, as to oc- cafion a ftoppage of circulation in the pro- truded part, mortification with all its bad confequences muft be the certain event: And befides, the connedion between the o- mentum,ftomach, and other vifcera, is fuch, that a fudden defcent of any confiderable portion of the former fometimes brings on vomiting, hickup, and other troublefome fymptoms: And ladly, although a rupture containing omentum only, might not of kfelf produce any thing badyet as the S 3 pafTageof Hernw, Ghap.V. 278 paflage through which the omentum has flipped, muft of necelllty continue open as long as that vilcus remains protruded, and. as that circumftance alone muft as long as it continues render it more eafy for a por- tion of gut likewife to get down, this of itfelf is a fufhcient reafon for beftowing even upon this fpecies of hernia our fe- rious attention. But whatever the contents of fuch fwel- lings may be, as their remaining iii ibme inftances for a coniiderable length of time without being productive of any bad fymp- toms, muft proceed entirely from the cir- culation continuing to go freely oh, not- withftanding the derangement of parts ; fo, whenever a ftriCture occurs upon the protruded vifcera, fufhcient to produce ei- ther a ftoppage of the circulation, or of the fecal contents of the alimentary canal when a portion of gut forms the difeafe, the fol- lowing in general are the fymptoms which, accrue. An elaftic colourlefs fwelling is obferved at the part affeCled; a flight pain is felt, notSed. I. Of Hernice, ' 279 not only in the fvvelling itfelf, but, if part of the alimentary canal is clown, an univer- fal uneafinefs is perceived over the whole abdomen; and this pain is always ren- dered worfe by coughing, fneezing, or any violent exertion. The patient complains of naufea; frequent retching ; can get no difcharge by flool; becomes hot and reft- lefs; and the pulfe is commonly found quick and hard. If the fwelling is entirely formed by a portion of gut, and if no fasces are Con- tained in it, it has a fmooth, equal lurface; and is ealily comprellible, but inrtantly returns to its former fize on the preffure being removed. But, in gut ruptures of long Handing, where hard fasces have col- lected in the protruded bowels, confider- able inequalities are deteded. , When again the tumor is compofed both of gut and omentum, its appearance is always unequal, it feels foft and fome- what like dough, and of courfe is not fo elaflic as when part of the inteftinal tube only is down; for although like the other S 4 kOf Hernia, CKap.V, ?8o it is comprefllble, it does not fo readily re-» gain its former dimenfions on the prefTlir® being taken off. It has been a received opinion, that in cafes of ftrangnlated hernia, the fymptoms “ fhould be lefs violent when the intefline is accompanied by a portion of omentum, than when gut alone is down. Little or no difference, however, is produced by this circumftance; for when a gut becomes ob^ ftrucled and inflamed, the fymptoms there- by induced are nearly the fame whether the omentum be down with it or not. It will be readily fuppofed, however, that the fymptoms we have defcribed ne- ver can happen from the prefence of o- mentum only: For although ftridlure pro- duced on a portion of omentum, even when no part of the inteftinal tube is down, does now and then occafion a good deal of diftrefs, fuch as pain in the part, ficknefs, vomiting, and twitching pains through the whole belly; yet no obftrudlion of the gut ever occurs from this, and of eourfe none of the fymptoms ever prove ftSeel, I. Of Hernu, 28 j fo alarming as when any part of the gnt is concerned. If thefe fymptoms we have deferibed as being produced by a Ilrangulated gut, are not now obviated by a removal of the ftridlure which produced them, the nau- fea and retching terminate in frequent vomitings, firll of a bilious, and after- wards of a more fetid matter ; the belly becomes tenfe ; the pain turns more vio- lent ; a diftreffing convulfive hickup comes on ; and the fever, which before was not apparently of much confequence, now becomes very formidable, and a total want of reft with a very difagreeable ftate of anxiety continues through the whole courfe of the complaint. Thefe fymptoms having gone on with violence for fome time, the patient is at laft for the moft part fuddenly relieved from all manner of pain, when he flatters himfelf every rilk is for certain over. But inftead of that, the pulfe, from ha- ving been hard and frequent, becomes languid and interrupted j coldfweats break outOf Hernia;^ Chap. V. 282 out over the whole body, but efpecially on the extremities; the eyes acquire a kind of languor; the tenfenefs of the abdomen fub- fides, and the fwelling of the part affedled difappears ; the teguments covering the parts, which before were either of a natu- ral appearance, or had fomewhat of a red- di£h inflamed call, now acquire a livid hue, and a windy crepitous feel is diftinguifh- able all over the fwelling. If the protruded parts have not of them- felves gone entirely up, their return is now in general eafily effedled by a fmall degree of preflTure, and the patient then difcharges freely by ftool; but the cold fweats in- creafing, the hickup turns more violent, and death itfelf is at laft ufliered in by its ufual fore-runners, fubfultus tendinum and other convulfive twitchings. Thefe are the ordinary fymptomsof what is termed a ftrangulatcd or incarcerated gut hernia; that is, when the parts protruded become fo affecfled by ftridlure, as to pro- duce pain; and do not either return to their natural fituations on the patient getting intoSeel. I. Of Hernia’, 283 into a horizontal poflure, or cannot even be immediately replaced by the hands of a pra(5licioner. In whatever fituation a flrangulated hernia occurs, the only rational method of cure, it is evident, muft confift in the re- moval of that ftridlure which prevents the return of the protruded parts. It is that which ought to be confidered as the caufe of all the mifehief; and unlefs it be re- moved, nothing elfedlual can be done 'for the relief of the patient. Various methods have been attempted by pra<5litioners for the removal of ftric-5- ture in thefe diforders ; all of them, how- ever, may be comprehended under two ge- neral heads. I. Such as effefl a redudlion of the pro- truded parts, without the interpofition of incifion or any chirurgical operation pro- perly fo called; and, II. A divilion of the parts producing the ftri6lure, fo as to admit of a replacement of the deranged vifeera, conftituting what is termed the Operation for the Hernia. TheChap. V. 284 of Hernia, The remedies to be employed for accom- plilhing the firft of thefe, are, a proper po- fture of the patient, with the manual aflift- ance of a pradlitioner ; blood-letting; fti- mulating glyfters; opiates; the warm bath; and proper applications to the tumor itfelf. As foon as the affiftance of a pradlitioner is delired for the removal of fymptoms in cafes of hernia, the lirft circumftance re- quiring his attention, is, the placing his patient in fuch a pofture as will moil pro- bably favour the return of the protruded parts. Thus, when the tumor is in the groin, or in the fore-part of the thigh, the patient ought to be fo placed, as to raife his thighs and legs confiderably higher than his head and trunk; that is, he Ihould be placed almoft perpendicularly upon his head. This pofition caufes almoft the whole quantity of inteftines to hang or fwing by the protruded parts, which frequently proves a means of effedling their redu(ftion. Placing the patient’s feet over the fhoulders of another perfon, while at the fame time hisOf Hcrni£» iSjf Sed. I. his body is allowed to hang downwards, and caufing him in this pofture to be a good deal jolted about, has on fome occa- hons been known to anfwer when every other means has been tried in vain. For the fame reafon that in the inguinal and femoral hernia the pofition now men- tioned is more advifable than any other, the ufual eredl pofture of the body becomes moft proper in cafes of exomphalus or um- bilical rupture; and again, a horizontal pofture is moft likely to prove ferviceable in cafes of ventral hernia. While the patient thus remains in the moft fuitable pofture according to the feat of the diforder, the furgeon fhould at the fame time endeavour to aflift the return of the gut or other parts, by means of gentle preflure with his hands and fin- gers. In the inguinal or fcrotal hernia, this preflure fhould be made obliquely upwards towards the os ileum, fo as to correfpond as nearly as poflible with the opening in the external oblique mufcle. In the femoral hernia, the preflure ought to beOf Hernia. Chap.V* ^86 be made dire(5Uy upwards; in tlie umbilical hernia, downwards and backwards; and in the ventral hernia, diredlly backwards. When tumors of this nature are of any confiderable fize, prelTure, as we have here recommended, is moft conveniently made, by grafping the fwelling with one hand from the bottom upwards, while with the fingers of the other hand we endeavour to pufh forward the contents at the fuperior part of the tumor. Some furgeons, in pufhing forward the inteftine, employ the fingers of both hands at the upper part of the tumor; but the fame purpofe is an- fwered equally well with the index and middle finger of one hand, while the other hand is employed to great advantage in preffing the under part of the tumor up- wards fo as to co-operate in this manner in the reduction of the parts. It is this ope- ration which by authors is termed the taxis. No defcription, however, can convey an adequate idea of the manner of performing it properly; for, like many other circum- ftances in the art of furgery, the knowledge I ofOf Hernia* Sea. I. 287 of it can only be acquired by repeated ex- perience and attentive obfervation: But this muft always be had in view, that any pref- fure that is applied, muft be of the moft gentle kind; for every thing of this nature that creates much pain, is very prejudicial, and ought by all means to be avoided. If a very moderate degree of preflure ap- plied in the manner defcribed, does not ef- fea a reduaion of the tumor, other means muft be immediately employed. Blood- letting is here a principal remedy. In no diforder is it either more indicated from appearances, or affords more relief in rea- lity. "fhe quantity to be taken away ought in a great meafure to be determined by the ftrength of the patient: But if in any cafe we can with propriety venture upon ab- ftraaing large quantities of blood from weak people, it is here; and it is often aftoniftiing to what length this evacuation is carried in cafes of hernia without being produdlive of any prejudice to the fyftem. A ftate of deliquium being known to pro- duce a more effectual relaxation of the va- rious288 Of Hernia, Chap*tfrf rlous mufcular parts of the body, than can be obtained by any other means, it has fometimes been advifed, in cafes of hernia,; to take off fuch large quantities of blOod, and in fuch a fudden manner, as to pro-^ duce fainting; and the practice has now and then been attended with advantage. As an obftinate coftivenefs is commonly one of the mod alarming fymptoms of hernia, it has been a common practice to prefcribe not only a variety of ftimula- ting purgatives by the mouth, but injec- tions compofed of the mod acrid materials* From all the experience, however, which I have had in diforders of this natun , I am convinced that purgatives are very feldom produdlive of much good; and when they do not prove ufeful, they almod univerfally do mifchief, by increafing not only the fick- nefs at domach which always prevails here* but even by adding to the pain and ten- don of the tumor. I am clear, therefore, that remedies of this kind diould not be pudied fo far as they commonly are; and when they are applied, indead of purga- 1 tives\ • ♦ K f- /> At-. ■' M < - ■r ^ j-' \Piafe VT.Se(5l. I. Of Hernia, 289 tlves by the mouth, which always prove very naufeatlngi and in this date are ufu- ally rejeded by the ftomach, I would re- ^ commend tobacco-fmoke thrown up in the form of inje(5lions, as preferable to every other remedy. A variety of machines have been contrived for injedling fmoke by the anus; but none of them I have met with anfwer the purpofe either fo eaiily or fo effedlually as the inftruments reprefented in Plates VI. and VII. They are eaiily pro- cured ; and by means of either of them, fmoke may be injedled with any necellary degree of force. I would not have it fuppofed, how’ever, that I recommend tobacco-fmoke ufed in this manner as an infallible purgative, as many have done. For the contrary is certainly the cafe ; I have known it ufed in a great number of cafes both of hernia and ileus, and feldom with any advan- tage. I only advife it as the molt effec- tual remedy of.this kind with which I am acquainted ; and I know that the method here recommended of injecting it, is the VoL. I. T molt2^6 of Hernia, Chap. Vl= inoft ef!€(5tual hitherto invented. It has been objedted to thefe inftruments we have delineated, that we cannot when they are employed afcertain the quantity of fmoke injedled. But this is a nicety of little im- portance; as the rule in all fuch cafes Ihould be, to continue to throw up the fmoke, either till it has produced the wifli- ed for effedl, till a confiderable degree of ficknefs is induced, or till the abdomen is found to be fomewhat diftended by it, as infome patients a third or even a half more may be necelTary for this purpofe than is found to anfwer in others. But although this remedy does not fre- quently anfwer as a purgative, it often, both in cafes of hernia and ileus, proves a very effedlual anodyne. And as we are frequently in fuch cafes deprived o^ the advantage of opium, by its being reje(5led by the ftomach, in fuch inftances, when the pain is very fevere, it may be always employed as one of the belt means of pro- curing eafe. With the fame view as the remedy laft n>en-!• V -*V.V i K i I t * <1 / ^ v‘ ''^,- • / ;/ \ ■\¥. f' '.\ . ■ f- \ 1Of HeVnidi Se6l. I. 291 mentioned, acrid fuppofitories, compofed of fbap, aloes, and ocher ftiinulating materials, have been recommended; and when reme- dies of this clafs are to be ufed, thefe may be confidered as a neceflary addition to the other purgatives; but no great dependence ought ever to be placed upon them. I know, we are told that in fome cafes of hernia, the ufe of draftic purgatives has been of advantage j but I have fo frequent- ly known them do harm, by increafing the naufea, pain, and inflammation of the flrangulated gut, that I am under no diffi- culty in faying that they ought feldom, if ever, to be ufed in any cafe of hernia. Opiates are here often of fervice, not only by relieving pain, but as tending to relax thofe parts which, by being preter- naturally conftribled, we confider as the principal caufe of the diforder. We have already obferved, ho\yever, that the con- ffant retching which occurs in mofl; cafes of hernia, prevents the exhibition of opiates by the mouth; but in fuch inftances they may be applied with fome advantage in T 2 the292 Of Hcniu'e. Chap.V. the form of injecfllon, and their ufe may be alternated with that of tobacco-fmoke as we have above recommended. Warm bathing is another remedy from which much a<ivantage has been received in diforders of this nature. It is not the local application of heat, however, in the form of poultices and fomentations, &c. we mean to recommend, but the univcrfai warm bath, in which the whole body is immerfed, and which we know to be pof- fefled of very relaxing powers. The latter, viz, the general warm bath, by tending to relax the conflridlion on the protruded inteftines, has frequently had a Gonfiderable influence in promoting their replacement; but the former, viz. poultices, and other means of applying local heat to the fvvelled parts, although commonly em- ployed, are undoubtedly very prejudicial. Gn the conftrifted t(fndon they can have no influence, for it always lies fo deep as to be out of the reach of every local application of this nature ; And as the heat conveyed by fuch remedies, mull for certain tend to, rarefySed. I. Of Hernia;, 293 rarefy the contents of fuch fwellmgs, by their thus producing an increafe of iizc in the tumors to which they are applied, in- ftead of anfwering any good purpofe, on this principle it is evident they muft do harm; and accordingly, whoever will at- tentively obferve their effects, will find this to be the cafe. When the external tegu- ments are much inflamed and painful, by their emollient properties they now and then afford fome relief; but the eafe fo obtained is only monJentary, as the pain commonly foon becomes more violent than before they were employed. Whoever attentively confiders the nature of thefe diforders, and the means general- ly found mod effedlual in relieving them, will probably coincide with us,^ in impu- ting the bad fymptoms which occur iii cafes of hernia, to a flridlure induced up- on the protruded parts. . By many, how- ever, a contrary opinion has been incul- cated ; and the principal caufe of the va- rious fymptoms which occur here, has been fuppofed to be, inflammation, or fome T 3 IpafmodicOf Hsrni^e, 494 Chap.V. fpafmodic afFe<5lion of the protruded parts, independent of any ftrifture of the parts through which thefe have pafTed. That inflammation of the prolapfed bowels, whatever may originally have pro- duced it, will in general terminate in all the fymptoms of ftrangulated hernia, no perfon will deny; but that ftridlure of the furrounding tendons is by much the moft frequent caufe of them, we think is fo very obvious, as to render it quite unneceflTary here to adduce any arguments in fupport of the opinion : This, however, we muft re- mark, that even on the fuppofition of the origin of all the mifchief lying in the pro- truded parts themfelves, and not in any flri<5lure of thofe through which they pafs, ftill the impropriety of warm applications muft be equally obvious, as by the rarefac- tion they induce, they muft always tend to produce an additional degree of fwelling in the contents of the hernial tumor. Independent, however, of any theoretical reafoning, 1 can with certainty aver, that in pratftice, much more advantage is obtained in • r3ea. I. ^95 Of Hernia, In diforders’of this kind, from cooling ap- plications, than from thofe of an oppofite nature. In different inflances I have ven- tured on the application of ice and fnow, fometimes with evident advantage, and I never faw them do harm'^. But in gene- ral, the remedies I depend moft on here, are, cold faturnine folutions, and cloths kept conftantly moift with a mixture of cold water and vinegar. By a proper application of one or other of the remedies now mentioned, or by a due combination of all of them, many cafes of hernia are relieved without any farther affiftance: But it frequently happens, not- withftanding every endeavour, that the protruded parts cannot be returned j the fymptoms, inftead of abating, become more violent; and the event of the difeafe is of courfe rendered more doubtful. In this fltuation, when no probability remains of fuccefs from the employment T4 of * By fome writers, this pra£lice has been confidered ^s hazardous; but I find it recommended by others to whom much credit is due, particularly by the late Dr Monro. See his Works, 4to edition, p. ^59.296 Of HernU,. Chap. V, of the means already mentioned, the divi- fion of the parts producing the ftridlure is then our oaly refource. Tliis, it m?iy be remarked, is one of the niceH points in praiftice that a furgeon has ever to. determine upon: I mean the exact period at which, in cafes of hernia, the more gentle means fliould he laid afide,and the operation be put in practice. If a fur- geon, without having given a fall trial to all the ufual remedies, fhould early in the dilbrder proceed to the operation, and if unfortuantely it fliould not fucceed, he would probably be blamed by the friends of the patient as the principal caufe of his death ; and again, even allowing a recovery to be obtained, he is apt to he blamed, not only by his brethren of the profeffion, but by the patient himfelf for having made him fuffer an unnecelTary degree of pain. In fuch a fituation a prablitioner often finds himfelf much embarraffed. But we ought to be directed here, as in every cri- tical cafe we are employed in, by the refult of experience only; and if this’rule is ad- heredSea. I. 297 Of Hernlce* hered to, inftead of tedious delays ufual in every cafe of llrangulated hernia, we will have recourfe to the operation much earlier than is ufuaily done. - This operation, as is the cafe indeed with, every other of equal Importance, is no doubt attended with fomehazard; but the danger accruing from it has by moft praaitioners been more magnified than it ought to be : For although no perfon of charaaer can in any cafe of hernia be fuppofed to have re- courfe to it before other means have been tried ; yet, fo far as from experience I am. able to judge, the rifk attending the dif- order itfelf when the operation is long de- layed, is infinitely greater thanis commonly experienced from the effeas of the opera- tion confidered abftraaedly. Were we able from the attending fymp- toms to determine the exaa period at which the operation ought to be perform- ed, no kind of difficulty would occur from it; but this is fo far from being the cafe, that the moft experienced praaitionfer can- ppt with any certainty decide upon it. In fome3 9 8 Of Hernia, Chap. V, fome Inftancee, herniae with every fymp- tom of ftrangulation, continue for fix, eight, or ten days ; and after all, the pro- truded parts are at length replaced, and the patient does well; and in many fimilar cafes when the operation has been the means of relief, although the very worft fymptoms have fubfifled for feveral days, yet on laying the parts open, no appear- ances efther of inflammation ^or gangrene have been detedled. On other occafions, again, the fame fet of fymptoms, with perhaps no greater de- gree of fwelling or tenfion in the parts affedled, end fatally in a very fhort Ipace of time. In fome fuch inftances, the ra- pid progrefs of the diforder is very furpri- fing ; the fpace of eight-and-forty hours hardly intervening, from its firft attack till the patient’s death; 1 have even known the inteftines become perfectly gangrenous in the courfe of one day from the time of their firft expulfion. Every pradlitioner muft be fenfible, that this is the real ftate of the queftion; and if itSe(fl. I. Of Hernia. 299 it is fo, it muft at once become evident, that confiderable delays muft in fuch critical circumftances be always attended with great hazard; and as the real dan- ger to be apprehended from the operation itfelf, is trifling when compared to the rifk which long delays ufually produce, it ought therefore, I think, to be laid down as an eftabliflied maxim. Always to pro- ceed to the operation, if in the fpace of a very few hours blood-letting and the other remedies pointed out, do not prove cf- fedtual. Two or three hours at fartheft, even when the afliftance of pradlitioners is early applied for, is perhaps the greateft length of time that fhould ever be con- fumed in trials of this nature. In the treatment of hernise, it is certain, that French furgeons are ufually more fuc- cefsful, than the generality either of Ger- man or Britifli pradlitioners; and fo far as 1 know, no reafon can be afligned for the difference, but that the French in almoft every inftance proceed more early to the operation than the furgeons of almoft any other300 Of Hernicd. Chap. V. other nation. They will thereby, no doubt, perform it frequently on patients who might have recovered by more gentle means; but any inconvenience ariling from this circumftance to a few, is fully compenfated by the number of lives which muft be laved by having recourfe to the o- peration in due time, and which in all pro- bability would otherwife have been loft. Although for very obvious reafons the redmftion of every cafe of hernia ought tp be attempted when that can be done with propriety, yet it frequently happens that particular circumftances occur which ef- fe(ftually debar us from every refource of this nature. When once a hernial fwelllng has been properly' reduced, it is in general in the patient’s power to prevent any return in future, by keeping a proper bandage con- ftantly applied to the opening from whence the parts were protruded. But it often happens from inattention to this circumr ftance, that ruptures which might at firft have been ealily cured, come at laft by repeatedSea. I. 301 Of HernidSi repeated defcents, and by the great quan- tity of parts that fall down, to form tumors of fo great a magnitude, in proportion to the opening through which they were pro- truded, that no art can replace them by the more hmple means of reduaion. Independently, too, of the great degree of bulk to which tumors of this kind fome- times arrive, fuch adhefions frequently take place, between the vifcera forming the fwelling and the furrounding parts, as render their return altogether impraai- cable by any other means than by the operation. By this laft mode, indeed, al- moft every cafe of hernia may be reduced ; but however neceflary this operation may be when a patient’s life is in danger,- as it is always attended with fome degree of rifk, it ought never to be put in praaice where fymptoms of ftrangulation do not aaually exift. In that chronic Hate of hernia we have been juft defcribing, although by interefted and ignorant praaitioners the' operation has been often propofed as a radical cure, yetChap. Vi Of Htrnia\ 303 yet no furgeon of charadler would in fuch circumflances ever think of adviiing it: He would reft fatisfied with preventing any accumulation of feces in the inteftines, by prefcribing a proper diet and the occa- fional ufe of gentle laxatives; and with ob- viating any inconvenience which might arife from the weight of the tumor, by the application of a proper fufpenfory ban- dage. By thefe means alone, large tumors of this kind are often rendered very fupport- able for a great length, of time; the circu- lation of the parts contained in the fwell- ing goes freely and regularly on, as well as the periftakic motion of fuch parts of the alimentary canal as have been pro- truded ; and hence it is that we have many inftances of large portions of the gut fall- ing down even to the bottom of the fcrotum, and continuing there for a great number of years without producing any interruption whatever to the ufual difcharge by ftool. |n this fituation, therefore, of the difeafe, the operation can never become admifTiblca 3 ' EmSed, I. Of Hernia^ ^03 But although people labouring under this ftate of the complaint, do frequently en- joy very good health, and fometimes feel little or no inconvenience from the fwell- ing, yet it mull not be fuppofed that their fituation is altogether free from danger: On the contrary, it is very certain, that on many occafions, fvsrellings of this kind •which have fubfifted for a great length of time without being productive of much trouble, do at laft inflame and turn painful, fo as to produce every bad fymptom com- monly obferved from the real ftrangula- tion of a gut. As long, too, as a fwelling of this nature remains, as the opening through which the parts have been pro- truded is thereby effectually prevented from doling, fo the patient is always liable to defcents of other portions of inteftine which have not formerly been down, and which may be productive of the moft fatal fymptoms. But what we here with to efta- blifli is, that till once thefe bad fymptoms do actually occur, either from an affeCtion of that part of the gut which has been long304 Of HerntIS. Chap. V. long down, or of a portion more recently- protruded, no fuch operation as the one in queftion ought to be employed. All that can be done with propriety in fuch cafes^ is, to fit the patients with proper fufpen- fory bandages; to warn them of the rifle they are conftantly liable to; and to cau- tion them againft violent exercife, particu- larly leaping, and every fudden exertion. Although with regular praditioners this circumftance cannot require much difeuf- fion, yet the public at large is much in- terefted in it. The former know well, that the operation Ihould not be performed in any cafe of hernia where violent fymptoms | do not render it neceflary,; but the latter, | by not been able to judge of the various circumftances which ought to be taken into confideration, are too frequently im- pofed upon by that numerous fet of Itine- rants with which every country abounds. By thefe a variety of operations are put in pra(Slice for performing what they call a radical cure of thefe diforders; by whichSe(5t i. Of Hernia, 305 they mean to fay, a prevention of future defcents. But as no remedy with which we are acquainted, a well adapted trufs .only ex- cepted, can be depended on for this pur- pofe; and as all the other means put in practice for it, are not only painful, but in general are produdlive of iiiueh clanger; the magiftracy of every community ought to interfere in fuppreffing them. The objedl in view by every attempt of this nature, is, either to effedluate the entire deftrudtion of the hernial fac, or at lead to procure an accretion of its fides ; which, by fuch as are ignorant of the anatomy of the parts concerned, has been confidered as capable of preventing any returns of the diforder in future; and for the produc- tion of which, various methods have been invented. In order to effedl a total deflrudbon of the fac, our forefathers employed not only the knife, but the potential and even ac- tual cauteries; and with a view to pro-, duce a firm union of its fides, which was VoL. 1, U confidered3o6 Of Hernia, Chap. V,.’ confidered as equally effecflual, it was af^ terwards propofed by praflitioners of more tender feelings, to employ the needle and ligature, or what was termed the Royal Sdtch; and for the fame purpofe was in- vented the famous pun£lum aureum^ which was performed in the following manner. After reducing the inteftines into the abdo- men, the fac was laid bare with a fcalpel ^ and a piece of gold-wire being palled round its upper end, the wire being like- wife made to include the fpermatic cord, it was then ordered to be twilled with a pair of forceps to fuch a degree of tlght- nefs as to preVent the defcent of the gut, but not to interrupt the circulation in the fpermatic cord"''\ But none of thefe methods being found to anfwer, for even the adlual cautery, when carried perhaps to the depth of the bone itfelf, did not fecure the patient againft a * For a more particular account of thefe various modes of practice in the different kinds of hernia as employed in former times, fee the writings of Albu~ cafis, Paulus ^gineta, Fab. ab Aquapendente,. Hil- danus, Parey, &c.Se6l. I. Of Hernia ', _ 307 a return of the diforder, our modern pre- tenders have therefore ventured to improve upon the ignorance of antient pra<5litioners, and adlually go the length of deftroying not only the hernial fac, but even the teftis alfo: without any knowledge of the anatomy of the parts, and having no characters to fuffer from whatever confe- quences may enfue, they proceed without fear; and, by promifing all that patients can hope for, they are fure to be every where well received. In confequence of this, in every large town, many operations are performed by them ; numbers accord- ingly are for certain mutilated, and many thereby even lofe their lives. Their me- thod of proceeding is fliortly this ; They lay bare the hernial fac, and having redu- ced the prolapfed parts, a ftrong ligature is palTed round both the fac and fpermacic cord, and is drawn fo tight as to deftroy elfedlually, not only the paffage along the fac, but the cord itfelf, and of courfe the tefticle. On fome occaiions matters go no farther; but on others, fuch a degree of U 2 inflam-Of Hernids. Chap. V. 3o8 inflammation has been induced, as to ter- minate in the patient’s defl:ru6lion. If any of tliefe means, however, was to be produtflive of the efFe<ft propofed, viz. the prevention of every future defcent of inteftine, the rifli incurred would be in fome meafure compenfated by the advan- tage received: But the fa(^ is much other- wife ; for unlefs a trufs be kept conftantly applied, the patient continues liable to a return of the diforder in nearly the fame degree as if no operation had been per- formed. Even the operation for the hernia itfelf, does nor, as has been fuppofed, for- tify the parts againft a return of the dif- order, the continued ufe of a trufs being juft as neceflary after that operation as if it had not taken place. I have dwelt longer oil this cireum- ftance than may be thought necelTary by thofe who are much converfant in this part of pracftice; but as it is certain, that even of late years much mifchief has been done by Itinerants in the various fpecies of hernia, and as they ftill continue to impofe upon thet « « ‘ ■■ - ■ *■ \/ ■-• If ', , ■* 0 ' ■ ■ i '■ ■ * ■ 1 ^ ' ■' ■ '" ' 9 ■ - y * 4 . ' ‘ . / /A309 Sea. L Of Hermit. the public, I thought it necefTary to put the unwary on their guard againft the ef- feds of their knavery and ignorance. In Plate VIII. are reprefented a variety of truITes for different fpecles of hernia, Thofe here delineated are intended for the more ufual kinds of hernia, viz. the inguinal, crural, and umbilical. When others are wanted for particular parts, fome ingenious tradefman in that line of bufinefs Ihould be applied to, with di- redlions to fit the inftrument with the ■niceft exaflnefs to the parts for which it is intended. Indeed, the good effedls of every bandage for this complaint, depend fo much upon the exadlnefs with which it is made to fit, that without the utmoft nicety in this refpecSt, it mufl always do more harm than good ; for the foie pur- pofe of a bandage in cafes of hernia, is, to prevent effedlually the falling down of fuch parts as have been newly replaced: If therefore the pad or bolder of the bandage does not bear properly againft the opening i!;ipon which it is placed, a portion of gut U 3 may3IQ Of Herjiia. Chap. V. may flip out, and be thus materially in- jured by the preffure of the pad. I have met with different inftances of this kind, •where bandages by not being exactly fitted did much mifehief; and every pradlitioner muft have obferved them ; it is therefore a matter of the firfl: importance, that tradef- men be ordered to pay much attention to this circumftance. Every bandage ufed for this purpofe ought to be of the fteel-fpring kind; for thofe corapofed of linen and other fofc materials, can never be kept properly applied. Even in infancy, the fteel bandages, when properly made, are in general ufed with eafe and fafety : But at any rate, when they cannot be got to apply exactly, which in early childhood is fometimes the cafe, no dependence ought to be placed upon any other ; for they al- ways fret and gall the parts to which they are applied, and I never knew them in any one inflance to anfwer the purpofe. Having premifed thefe general obferva- tions, which relate equally to every variety of the.diforder, and by which frequent repeti"Of Hermcs» Sea. I. 311 repetitions will be rendered unneceffary, we ihall now proceed to the more parti- cular confideration of the different fpecies of hernia j and fir ft of the Bubonocele, SECTION IL Of the Bubonocele. ^J^Ogether with the general fymptoms of flrangulated hernia which we have lately enumerated, and to which we muft here refer, the particular appearances of the bubonocele, or inguinal hernia, are, a foft fomewhat elaftic fwelling, beginning in the groin, and defcending by degrees into the fcrotum in men, and into the labia pudendi in women. When a portion of gut forms the tumor, it commonly feels tenfe, and this always in proportion to the degree of ftri(Ture that occurs in the opening of the tendon ; and when any inflammation takes place, the leaft degree of handling or pref- fure always gives pain. When the hernia contains omentum only, the fwelling is both more foft, com- U 4 preifible.Of Hern 'll, Chap. V, 3T2 prefTible, and more unequal, than wheq gut alone is down: the fcrotum becomes more oblong, and of courfe lefs round, than in an inteftinal hernia; and when the quan- tity of omentum is large, it is alfo much more weighty than a gut rupture of the fame fize : But in many cafes, perhaps in the greaceft proportion of all hernial fwell- ings, the tumor is compofed of both gut and omentum; and then the diflinguifh- ing fymptoms of each can never be fo clearly marked. In books, various fymp- toms are enumerated, for diftinguifhing the contents of every fpecies of hernia; but whenever the cafe is in any degree com- plicated, every candid practitioner muft acknowledge, that no certainty as to thi$ point can be obtained till the tumor is fairly laid open. As there are fome diforders with which the inguinal and fcrotal hernia may be confounded, pradlitioners ought to be as much acquainted with their charaCteriftic piarks as poflible. Thefe complaints are, glandular or other fwellings in the groin, whether jiOf Hcrnls, 3^3 Se£t. IL whether from the venereal difeafe or any other caiife ; that fpecies of fwelling termed Kernia Humoralis ; and all the different kiiuls of hydrocele. The venereal bubo and other fwellings in the groin, are readily dillinguifhed frorn hernia, not only by the abl'ence of all the general fymptoms of hernia, but by that incompreflible hardnefs with which all fuch fweilings are at firft attended, and by the fluctuation of matter which in their fnpparated (late is always obfervable. in the hernia humoralis, or fwelling of the teflicle, the hardened and enlarged date of the tellicle itfelf, as well as of the epidi- dymis ; their being exquifitely painful to the touch ; the tumor being remarkably heavy in proportion to its bulk; and the fperma- tic procefs being comn only very free from fwelling; are in general pretty certain marks of diflinclion In the hernia humoralis, too, the intellines are free and unobftru(5led, and the other general fymptoms of hernia as formerly pointed out are wanting. the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis tefliSj,Chap.V. 314 OfH rnice. teffcis, the tumor in general is more equal to the feel than in hernia: in the former, the fwelling always begins in the under part of the fcrotum, and proceeds upwards ; whereas the very reverfe occurs in hernise. Except in cafes of very enlarged hydrocele, the fpermatic procefs is always perfectly free and diftindl; whereas in every cafe of hernia where the tumor defcends to the. fcrotum, the fpermatic cord cannot in any part of its courfe be diftinguiflied. In a hydrocele, a fliufluation of a fluid is diftin- guifliable; in a hernia it is otherwife. From the anafarcoiis fwelling of the fcrotum, or hydrocele of the dartos as it is termed, hernia is very readily diftin— guiflaed; and indeed the means of diftinc- tion are fo obvious, that they need not be here enumerated: but there is another fpe- cies of hydrocele, viz. the hydrocele of the fpermatic cord, which on fome occafions it is no eafy matter to diftinguifli from her- nia, and which therefore requires particu- lar attention. The fpccies of hydrocele, where the waterOf Hernia» \ ' Sea. II. water is colleaed in one or more cells of the fpermatic procefs, now and then be- gins in the tinder part of the cord, and proceeds upwards; and in fuch cafes, this circumftance alone is a fufficient means of diliinaion between it and hernia, in which the fwelling always proceeds from above downwards ; but it fometimes happens, that the fwelling in this kind of hydro- cele begins even within the opening in the abdominal mufcle, and by degrees falls dowmwards. In fuch inftances, it is alto- gether impolTible from the date of the tu- mor merely, to fay whether it is the one difeafe or the other. The general fymp- toms of hernia, fuch as pain and tenlion of the abdomen, obftru6led inteftines, &c. mull: be particularly attended to; and as thefe do not occur in any fpecies of hy- drocele, when they happen to take place they will commonly throw much light on the real nature of the difeafe. In fome cafes, however, thefe and every other means of diftincftlon are wanting; but even in fuch circumftances a prudent pra(di«316 OJ Hernia, Chap. V. pra(5litioner will never run any riik, either of hurting his patient, or of affeding his own reputation ; which the miftaking a Hernia for a Hydrocele, and treating it as fuch, muft always do; and which, to the difgrace of Surgery, has on fome occafions adnally happened. In all fuch cafes, where any degree of doubt occurs, as well as in every cafe of tumor in the tefticle where the mod per- fed certainty is not obtained, and when it is neceffary to have recourfe to an ope- ration, the furgeon ought to proceed as if the diforder was a real hernia; By doing fo, every rilk will be avoided; and on the tumor being laid cautioufly open, the true nature of the difeafe will be then rendered evident, and the praditioner accordingly will be at liberty to apply the means bed fuited for its removal. Whereas by adopt- ing a contrary method, and by treating as a Hydrocele what afterwards turns out to be a true Hernia ; independent of any in- jury to his own reputation, he runs a very great rij[k of deftroying his patient. InSea, II. Of Hernlte, 317 In the treatment of the Bubonocele, ■when the various means we have recom- mended wfien treating of hernia in gene- ral are employed without fuccefs, the fur- geon is then under the neceflity of proceed- ing to the operation, and the method of doing it is this. A table of a convenient height being placed in a proper light, the patient muft be laid upon it with his head and body almoft horizontal, whilft at the fame time his buttocks are fomewhat elevated by pil- lows laid beneath them. The legs hang- ing over the edge of the table ought to be feparated fo as to admit the operator be- tween them ; and ftiould in that fituation be firmly fecured by an affiftant on each fide, who fhould take care to keep the thighs fo far raifed, as to relax all the ab- dominal mufcles. In order to afford as much empty fpace as pofiible for the return of the protruded parts, the patient fhould be advifed to empty his bladder entirely; and the parts having been previoufly fhaved, an incifion muffOf Hernia. Chap. V. muft now be made with a common round-edged fcalpel through the ikin and part of the cellular fubftance, beginning at leaft an inch above the fuperior end of the tumor, and continuing it down to the moft depending part of the fcrotum. Even although the tumor does not extend to the bottom of the fcrotum, the parts fhould be laid open in this manner. By a free external incifion we are enabled to finifh the operation with more eafe and free- dom than when the firft opening is not fo large ; it does not produce much more pain than a fmall incifion; and by being continued to the bottom of the fcrotum, the matter produced in the upper part of the fore is prevented from collect- ing below, which it is otherwife ready to The operator now goes on to divide flowly the reft of the cellular fubftance, together with fome tendinous kind of bands, which, unlefs the diforder is very recent, are univerfally met with, either loofe upon the furface of the hernial fac, do. 3 or, /319 Of Uerntcdl Sed. II. or, on fome occafions, palling as it were into its fubftance. Even this external in- cilion of the teguments ought to be made with great caution : For although in by much the greateft proportion of hernial fwellings, the fpermatic velTels lie behind the protruded parts, yet on fome occafions they have been found on the anterior part of the tumor ; fo that in order to avoid the rifk of wounding them, as foon as the flcin is divided the remainder of the ope- ration ought to be done in the moll cau- tious manner, care being taken to avoid every large blood-veffel that makes its ap- pearance. This circumftance of the prolapfed parts getting down behind the fpermatic velTels, has never, fo far as I know, been taken notice of in books ; it mult therefore be a very rare occurrence. As I met with it, however, in one cafe, where the fad was exceedingly evident, the pollibility of its happening I have therefore no reafon to doubt. If we attend only to the ufual con- formation of thefe parts, the hernial fac. we320 Of Hernict, Ghap.V. we would fay, ought never to get behind the fpermatic cord : But we know well, that in no part of the human body is na- ture more apt to defert her ordinary courfe, than in fome circumftances relating to the tefticles and their blood-veflels. We have already obferved, that till near the period of delivery, the tefticles continue in the abdomen; and about that time, fall down in a gradual manner to the fcrotum^ Many inftances, however, occurj of both tefles remaining in the abdomen through life: Sometimes one remains^ and the other falls into the fcrotum. On other occafions, one or both fall into the groinj and never proceed farther; a circumftance which every young practitioner fhould be aware of, as inftances have occurred of a tefticle remaining in the groin being mi- ftaken for a hernia, and of much pain and diftrefs being produced by different at- tempts made for their redu(5lion. Now, if fuch varieties as thefe occur in the me- chanifm of thefe parts, why may not na- ture in fome inilances produce fuch a con- 3 formationSedt. II. 321 .Of Hernia, formation as may, in the event of a her- nial fac falling into the fcrotum, bring the fpermatic cord, and even the tefticle itfelf, into a lituation anterior to the protruded parts ? 1 fhall not here enter into the dif- cufTion of the manner in which fuch a circumftance may be produced; but, as I am certain that the fadl has happened, and as it may therefore occur again, I conlider it as an additional argument for the pro- priety of dividing the hernial fac in the cautious manner here diredled In making this firft incilion of the fkin, it is ufual to do it by pinching up the te- guments, and then dividing them wdth a fcalpel; but no furgeon of fteadinefs and dexterity will ever think it necelTary to proceed in this manner; for this incilion of the llcin is done with much more neat- VoL. I. X nefs, * Since this went to the prefs, I find that a fimilar Inftance is recorded by Le Dran, in his Treatife on Ruptures^ of the fpermatic vefleis having been found on the anterior part of a bubonocele—Such a fitua- tion, therefore, of thefe veiTels, is perhaps more fre- quent than is commonly imagined.322 Of Hernhe, Chap.V. nefs, and with equal fafety, by the opera- tor grafping the tumor with his left-hand, in fuch a manner as to render the tegu- ments on the anterior part of it as tenfe as poffible, while with the fcalpel in his right- hand he divides the (kin from one end of the fwelling to the other. The divilion of the flcin and cellular fubftance being continued in the manner diredled till the fac is laid bare, an open- ing muft be made in it fo as to bring its contents into view; and the moft fafe place for fuch an opening is, not about the mid- dle of the tumor, as is commonly direifled, but as near to the under point of it as pof- fible : It is here done with as much eafe as in any other part; and befides, the gut is feldom if ever found juft at the bottom of the fac, which is commonly occupied with a quantity of bloody ferum j fo that the rifk of wounding it is there much lefs than in any other part of the fwelling. In ma- king this perforation into the fac confifts the greateft nicety in the operation, the iTtmoft caution being neceJTary to avoid ' wound-Sc(f^:. II. Of Hermce, 323 wounding the parts protruded from the abdomen. Good eyes and a fteady hand are in no operation more requifite than in this: With thefe, any praditioner acquaint- ed with the anatomy of the parts may be fure of doing the operation properly, and without them the bell anatomift muft un- doubtedly go wrong. With the fame fcalpel that divided the Ikin and cellular fubftance, the operator muft proceed flowly, dividing one fibre of the fac after another, till there is reafon to think that the whole fubftance of it is cut through. This may be always difcovered by means of the blunt end of a probe: If it pafles in eafily, we may conclude with cer- tainty that the fac is divided; and if it does not, the incifion muft be continued in the fame gradual manner fomewhat far- ther, when the fame trial with the probe muft be again made. In profecuting this divifion of the fac, a good deal of affiftance is obtained from the ufe of a fmall fharp-pointed diredlory, open at the extremity, as is reprefented in X 2 Plate32'4 Hernia, Chap.V* Plate IX. fig. 3. By puftiing the end of this inftrument below fome of the fibres of the fac, they are thereby feparated from the parts underneath, and may be thus divi- ded with more fafety than in any other manner; and in the fame way the remain- ing parts of the fac mufl be divided, till this part of the operation is finiflied In almofl; every cafe of hernia where the tumor is confined to the grbinj and even where the fwelling extends to the fcrotum if the parts are recently protru- ded, the hernial fac is found very thin, and in fuch cafes is always foon cut through; but it is neceflary for the information of young pradlitioners, to obferve, that in hernial fwellings of long (landing, the fac frequently becomes fo very thick, as to require much more diffedlion than be- ginners f * In the 4th Volume of Memoirs of the Paris Aca- demy of Surgery, there is a very ingenious paper on Herniae by Monfieur Louis. But although thei'e are many ufeful obfervations communicated in this trea- tife, Mr Louis in one point I think has gone far wrong, in ridiculing that degree of caution fhown by fome fur-Sea. II. Of Her nia, 325 ginners commonly expea : By going on, however, in the cautious manner we have direaed, every rifk of wounding any ma- terial part may be avoided. As foon as ^an opening is made quite through the fac, a circumftance of which we are made certain, as was already re- marked, by a probe paffing eafily in, it ought then to be farther enlarged, till it is X 3 of furgeons in dividing the hernial fac : The divifion of the fac, he fays, is attended with fo little difficulty, that he does not confider it as different m that refpetl from the firff external incifion of the fkin. His words are : Jamais le fac ne m’a donne ni plus de peine, ni plus d’embarras que k peau ; on divif, pour ainli dire, celle-ci du premier traits et le fac du fecond." In the hands of fuch an expert operator as Mr Louis, the fcalpel even in this manner may be fo managed as to do no harm ; but with the general run of praflitioners much mifchief would be produced by proceeding in this part of the operation fo rapidly as is here diredled. And when we refledf that the dif- ference of a few feconds in the courfe of the operation, is all that could be gained by the greateft difpatch we can employ, little doubt, I think, can remain as to the propriety of proceeding through every part of it iu the moft deliberate manner.Of Hernie, 326 Chap.V. of fuch a fize as to admit the fore-finger of the operator’s left hand. ; The finger being now introduced, is to | be ufed as a diredlor for entering the nar- row blunt-pointed biftoury, reprefented in j Plate VII. with which the fiirgeon is to di- j vide the hernial fac along its whole length , from below up to the opening in the ex- ternal oblique mufcle. By means of the finger as a director for the biftoury, this part of the operation is performed with perfedl fafety; and the biftoury here deli- neated, renders the many complex inftru- ments formerly employed not only for this part of the operation, but for the fubfe- quent divifion of the tendon, quite unne- ceffary. On laying the fac open at the bottom, a quantity of coloured fluid always rufhes out, and the protruded parts now come fully into view; If a portion of gut is down, and is not much entangled with omentum, by being now fet at liberty it pulhes out immediately on the fac being opened; thereby giving the appearance of having been ;327 Of Hernlcs. Seel:. II. been colleded in a larger quantity, than the fize of the tumor gave reafon to expe<51:. The portion of gut found in hernial fwellings is very various, no part of the inteftinal canal being entirely exempted from falling down. Hitherto the ileum has been commonly fuppofed to form the fubftance of the greateft proportion of fuch tumors; later and more accurate obfervation, however, renders it probable, that the caecum, appendix vermiformis, and part of the colon, are perhaps as fre- quently contained in herniary facs as any other portion of the gut. The fac being laid fully open, the parts contained in it, ought now to be examined with the nicefl attention, in order to dif- cover whether they are all found or not; and if upon an attentive infpedlion they are found to be found, that is, if they are not evidently in a gangrenous ftate, even although they do feem to be confiderably inflamed, every endeavour fhould be ufed to get them immediately returned into the abdomen. X 4 In328 Of Hernia:, Chap.V, In making the redu6llon, whether in- teftine or omentum, or a portion of each, have been found contained in the fwel- ling, thofe parts of them which appear to have come laft out, ought to be firft pufhed back; the difficulty and trouble of returning them being thereby much lefTened : And in making the redudlion, it both anfwers the purpofe better, and is lefs likely to do mifchief, to apply the fin- gers to that part of the inteftine connecfled with the mefentery than to the convex part of the gut. While the redudlion is going on, the patient’s thighs and loins fliould be ftill more elevated than they were during the preceding fteps of the operation ; as this pofture of thefe parts tends much to facilitate the return of the protruded inteflines to the abdo- men. When the difeafe is recent, and the parts have not been frequently down, it fome- times happens, that by pulling out a little more of the gut than was formerly in the fac, any obftrudlion which occurred to its beingOf Hernia. 329 Sea II. being replaced is thereby removed ; and if the protruded parts are not of great bulk, they may thus be fometimes reduced, with- out any neceffity for enlarging the opening through which they have pafTed from the abdomen : But when upon trial this can- not be done with great eafe, it fhould never be attempted; much more danger being to be dreaded from any degree of force ufed for the redu(5lion of the gut, than can ever occur from finiihing the operation by an enlargement of the opening in the tendon of the external oblique mufcle. As the tendon of this mufcle runs in an oblique direction from above downwards, and as the opening through which the contents of a hernia protrude, is formed merely by a feparation of the tendinous fibres from one another, the diredlion of this opening is of courfe the fame with that of the tendon ; that is, it runs fome- what obliquely from the fpine of the ileum to the os pubis. In enlarging this pafiage, then, for the |:edu(5tion of fuch parts as have paflTed 3 through33° Chap. V. Of Hernia, through it, as a tranfverfe fc(5lion of the tendon is by no means neceflTary, the knife fhould be carried obliquely upwards, fo as merely to continue the natural reparation of the tendinous fibres. The finger was recommended as the beft diredlor for the knife in opening the fac, and in dividing the tendon it is equally necelTary. By infinuating the finger into the aperture in the tendon immediately above the protruded parts, the point of the blunt biftoury is eafily introduced upon it; j and in this manner, by keeping the end ! of the finger always a little before the bi- | floury, the opening may be enlarged to any necefTary extent without any rifk of ■wounding the contiguous parts. In general, a very fmall enlargement of the natural opening in the tendon is found fufficient for the redudlion of the gut and other parts: But the fize of the opening ought by all means to be fully fufficient for the end propofed; for it is better to exceed in making it fomewhat too large, ; than to run any rifk of hurting the parts by ,33^ Of Hernics. Sc(5l. II. I by forcing them through a very fmall aperture. If upon introducing the finger any ad- hefions of the gut to the contiguous parts are difcovered, the incifion in the tendon ought to be larger than might otherwife be neceflary, in order that the finger may be freely admitted fo as to deftroy fuch ad- hefions as it can reach ; for unlefs they are removed, complete fuccefs from the operation cannot be expedted. Independently of fuch adhefions inter- nally, it frequently happens, by long con- finement in the fcrotum; preflure; and perhaps other caufes; that ftrong adhefions are formed among the parts contained in the fac itfelf; and before they can be with propriety reduced, it is always neceflary to attempt to feparate them. When adhefions of this kind occur, as they fometimes do, between different parts of the protruded gut, the greateft caution is neceflary in feparating them : But connec- tions of this nature between one portion of the inteftinal canal and another, are feldom veryOf Herrua^ 33* Chap.V, from I very firm, and are commonly eafily fepa- rated by the fingers alone; and when the conne(5lion is formed by means of long fila- ments, which is fometimes the cafe, the cafieft method of removing them is to cut them, either with a pair of fciflars or the biftoury : But when it is found, that one part of a gut adheres fb firmly to another as not to be feparated but with difficulty, ' it is much better to return the whole even in that ftate into ch? abdomen, than to run the rilk of hurting the inteftine materially by ufing much force. When, again, adhefions occur between the g^ut and the hernial fac, or between the gut and omentum, if the filaments producing j the conne6:ion cannot be otherwife remo- ved, as there Is no great hazard in wound- | ing the omentum, and ftill lefs in hurting the fac, a very fmall portion of thefe may be difiet^led off, and returned with the gut into the abdomen; and in the fame man- , ner, when the omentum adheres fo firmly to the fac as not to be feparated in any j other manner, no danger can ever accrue :Of Herntise, ^3^ Sea. II. from the fac being fomewhat encroached •upon. The rifk and trouble attending the prac- tice now recommended is nothing, at leaft 'it is very trifling, when compared to the inconveniences that would enfue from lea- ving either the omentum or gut adhe- ring externally to the hernial fac, as is ad- vifed by fome writers when fuch adhe- fions cannot be very eafily divided. The fmalleft portion of gut being left down, would run a great rifk of fuffering by expo- fure to an unufual degree of cold, and to the effe(5ls of the external air at the differ- ent dreflings; and by leaving part of the omentum to protrude through the opening from the abdomen, one great advantage to be expelled from the operation would be loft, viz. the prevention in future of that rifk which a patient with a portion of pro- truded omentum is always liable to, of a piece of gut flipping down, and perhaps of becoming ftrangulated/ After returning the contents of the fac into the cavity of the abdomen, it has been propofed334 Of Hernia^ Chap. V- prdpofed by fome authnrs, to pafs a liga- ture round the upper p^rt of the fac juft at its neck, with a view, as we are told, of procuring a reunion of its fides, in order that it may ferve as a means of preventing future defcents of the bowels. But as fuch a ligature cannot be applied without much rilk of injuring, or even of deftroying the fpermatic veflels, with which the pofterior lamella of the fac is immediately connected, the pracftice from that confideration alone ought to be laid afide; but in reality it does not appear to be in any degree neceflary, as this very union of the lides of the fac is univerfally produced merely by that degree of inflam- mation which always fucceeds to the divi- fion of it |)y this operation. Hitherto we have recommended the im- mediate redudlion of the contents of hernial tumors upon the fuppofition that they have been only difplaced ; that they have been adhering to one another or to the neigh- bouring parts ; or perhaps that they have 1 been335 Of Hernice, Sea. II. been more or lefs in a Hate of inflam- mation. But when it appears that this inflammation has already terminated in gangrene, as the return of fuch mortified parts, whether of omentum or intefline, might be exceedingly hazardous, a greater degree of caution becomes neceflTary. When the omentum is found in a mor- tified (late, as tlie excifion of a portion of this membrane is not attended with much rifli, it has been the common practice to cut away the difeafed parts ; and in order to obviate any inconvenience from the he- morrhagy which might enfiie, we are ad- vifed to make a ligature on the found parts previous to the removal of thofe that are mortified; whilft the ends of the ligature being left hanging out of the wound, the furgeon has it in his power to remove them when circumftances appear to render it proper. Thefe ligatures on the omentum, how- ever, having frequently been producflive of bad confequences, fuch as naufea, vo- miting, cough, fever, pains in the belly, and33^ Herni(^, Chap. V, and inability to fit ere6l; and it having been found by the experience of many in- dividuals, that no hemorrhagy of any im- portance ever occurs from a divifion of this membrane even in a found unmortified flate; fuch parts as have become gangrenous may therefore be freely cut off, and the remaining found parts be afterwards with- out the intervention of ligatures introdu- ced into the abdomen with no rifk what- ever. This is now the opinion of different pradlitioners But if it fliould ever hap- pen, on cutting off part of the omentum, that a veffel of any fize is divided, a liga- ture may with great fafety be paffed about the veffel itfelf, without including any of the membrane; and the ends of it being left long enough to hang out at the wound, the * A very accurate paper upon this fubje£t may be feen in the 3d Vol. of Memoires de I’Acadmie Royalle de Chirurgie of Paris, by Monfieur Pipelet, in which feveral cafes are related of the bad efFeds produced by ligatures on the omentum. Mr Pott is alfo of this opinion.—Vide Treatife on Piuptures.337 Of Hernia. Sedt. II. the threads may be afterwards pulled away at pleafure. Another circumftance fometimes occurs, too, which renders the removal of part of the omentum neceflary; when a rupture has been of long duration, and a confider- able portion of caul has remained long down, from the preffure made by the ufual fufpenfory bandage and other circum- ftances, it frequently happens that confi- derable quantities of the protruded parts become much thickened, very hard, and colledled into lumps. When thefe lumps are not very large, there is no neceflity for removing them, as when fmall, they may be returned into the abdomen without pro- ducing any inconvenience ; but whenever it appears to the operator, that by their bulk and hardnefs they might probably do mifchief if reduced into the belly, they ought as certainly to be cut off as if in a (late of real mortification. When it is determined to remove any part of the omentum, the eafiefi: and fafeft method of doing it is this. The mem- VoL. I, Y brane33^ Of Hernias, Chap. V. brane ought to be carefully expanded at the part intended to be cur, and in this ftate it is very eafily divided by a pair of rhin-edged fciffars; much more fo indeed, than by any other inftrument. When fully fpread out, any turn of the intefline that happens to be enveloped in it, is at once brought into view, which without this precaution we would run a great rilk of of dividing by the fciffars. When, again, a portion of gut is found to be mortified, if it fhould be returned in that flate, a difcharge of fasces would cer- tainly take place into the cavity of the ab- domen, as foon as the mortified fpot fhould feparate from the found. In order to pre- vent fuch an occurrence, which would foon terminate in the patient’s death, if it is a fmall fpot only that is difeafed, we. ought to endeavour by means of a needle and ligature, to conned the found part of the gut immediately above the mortified fpot,to the woundinthe abdominal parietes. By this means, when the mortified part fe- parates, or on its being immediately cut out,Sedl. lU Of Hernia. 339 out, whicii is perhaps better, the fseces are difcharged by the wound; and different; inftances have occurred, where the lofs of fubftance produced by the mortification was not extenfive, of the opening into the gut becoming gradually lefs, and at laft healing entirely: But whether the event flxould prove fo fortunate or not, when- ever a portion of gut is obferved to be com- pletely mortified, it ought by all means to be fecurred by a ligature to the parts moft contiguous to the wound. And farther, when the mortified portion of gut is of great extent, and includes, fo far as it goes, the whole circumference of the inteftine, the gangrenous parts of it ought to be cut out at once; and if the quantity thus taken away is not fo confiderable as to prevent the ends of the gut from being brought into contadl with one another, it ought to be immediately effedled in the manner we fhall direft in another chapter when treating of Gaftroraphy. This at leaft affords a chance of the ends of the gut being brought to reunite; and if un- Y 2 fortunately340 Of Hernia, Chap. V. fortunately that event fliould not take place, as the gut ought here alfo to be con- nected to the parts contiguous to the wound in the abdomen, a paffage for the fasces will ftill be fecured by the groin. Although in cafes of hernia, attended with a mortification of the inteftines, many have recovered by the method we have re- commended who other wife muft have died; yet it will be readily fiippofed, that the rilk attending patients in fiich a ftate muft be very great: But although a fmall propor- tion only of fuch as are unfortunately in this fituation Ihould recover, yet ftill no praClitioner would be excufable for omit- ting thole means which afford the greateft probable chance of a recovery. A patient of my own is now living, and in good health, voiding his faeces by the anus, who loft at leaft one foot of the inteftinal canal by mortification in a cafe of crural hernia; and we are told by different authors, of fimilar recoveries equally remarkable. It is to the moderns chiefly, we muft re- mark, that this very material improvement inSea. II. Of Hernix. 341 in the treatement of hernia is to be attri- buted. It is even recorded of Rau, who li- ved in a very late period, that on opening a hernial fac, where a gangrenous Rate of the parts was deteaed, as the cafe was confidered as defperate, he laid down his knife and proceeded no farther in the ope- ration. This patient, who died next day, would in modern praaice have had at leaft fbme chance for life. When it is therefore difcovered, that part of the contents of the fac are mortified, all fuch portions as are to be removed ought to be cut off; and the remaining found in- teftine being retained till properly fecured by a ligature, the opening in the external oblique mufcle may then be dilated with fafety: Whereas, if it fliould be enlarged before the difeafed part of the gut is taken away, the gangrenous portion might very probably flip up together with the found ; but by the precaution now recommended, every rifk of this nature is prevented. The parts forming a hernia being all completely replaced, when the fac in which Y 3 theyChap. V. 342 Of Hernia, they^ were contained is found thick, hard, and much enlarged^ as in fuch a ftate no good fuppuration can take place, and as its prefervation cannot be in any degree ufeful, fuch parts of it as can be cut away with propriety ought to be removed: All the lateral and fore-parts of the facmay.be cut off with fafety; but as it is commonly firm- ly coniiefled with the fpermatic veffels be- hind, this partof it ought not to be touched. The operation being now finifhed, by the protruded parts being replaced, and thofe intended to be removed being cut off in the manner directed, the remaining fore muft be drelfed as lightly as poflible with charpeeof thefoftefl,kind; and thebeftban- dage for retaining the dreffings, is the ufual fufpenfory bag properly fluffed with foft lint. The patient on being carried to bed fhould be fo placed as to have his loins fomewhat elevated above the reft of his body, and fhould in that fituation be im- mediately laid to reft: Opiates are here par- ticularly ufeful: To prevent, or at leaft to moderate, the fever which commonly fuc- ■' ceeds,Of Hernia. Sea. II. 343 The ceeds, the patient fhould be kept cool; in plethoric habits, blood-letting fliould be prefctibed, together with a rigid low diet; and laftly, a frequent ufe of gentle laxa- tives, fo as to keep the belly moderately open, is particularly proper. When however the conflitution has been previoufly much reduced, either by long ficknefs or any other caufe, inftead of blood- letting and a low diet, a nouriihing regi- men fhould be prefcribed ; for if a patient in fuch circumftancesbe not properly fup- ported, he will not fo readily recover from the effedls of the diforder: And it is pro- per to remark, that in ordinary pra<5lice,the indifcriminate ufe of blood-letting, and an abftemious regimen, in every cafe of hernia, appears to be too rigidly adhered to; for although this pra(5Hce proves al- ways more effe<5lual than any other means in every cafe of rupture attended with in- flammation, yet daily experience convinces us of its being highly pernicious where the fyftem has been already much reduced by evacuations, and where no inflammatory fymptoms take place.Of Hernh. Chap.V. 344 The (ore being regularly drefled as often as it appears neceflary, in the fame eafy manner as at firft, and the fame degree of caution being continued both with refpedl to diet and other circumftances, if the pa- tient furvives the firft three or four days he will in general recover: And as foon as the fore is firmly cicatrifed, a trufs ought to be properly fitted to the parts, and fhould never in any future period of life be laid afide. By many it has been recommended, and it is ftill a very common pradlice, to flitch up the wound with two or three futures; but as no real advantage can be obtained from this, and as it has been on fome occafions produ(ftive of mifchief, it ought not to be attempted. No perfon will probably fay, that fuch ligatures ought to be carried fo deep as the tendon of the oblique inufcle; and if they are only made to pafs through the external teguments, they can have no effccl in preventing a protrufion of intef- tines : On the contrary, it does now and then happen, during the cure of the wound after this operation, that fmall portions of . gutOf Hernia, Sea. II. 345 gut pafs out at the opening in the tendon, which are always readily feen and eafily reduced when the external parts have not been drawn together; but on the fkin be- ing by ligatures made to cover the greatefl: part of the wound, I have known it more than once happen, that portions of inte- ftine have pafled out at the opening in the tendon, and remain protruded for a confi- derable time without being noticed; fo that the praaice ought not to be encouraged. After laying the fac bare, it was Ibme time ago recommended by Mr Petit and other French praaitioners, to endeavour to reduce the protruded inteftine without di- viding the fac. One great advantage ex- peaed from this, was, the prevention of thofe bad confequences which are fuppoled will mod likely enfue from the external air finding accefs to the contents of the abdo- men. It ought to be remembered, however, that unlefs the hernial fac is laid open, we cannot poflibly know in what ftate the pro- truded bowels are; fo that parts might be returned34^ Hernia, Chap.V. returned into the abdomen in fuch a ftate of difeafe as would add greatly to the pa- tient’s rilli. Not only the inteftines are liable to mortification, but colledtions are apt to occur in the hernial fac, of a very fetid putrid ferum, which, on being pufhed into the abdomen, might be productive of , much mifchief. And befides, it has fome- times happened, that, on laying open a hernial fac, the caufe of ftrangulation has been deteCled, either in the entrance to the fac itfelf, or, among the parts protruded along with it: For although, in a great pro- portion of all the inftances of hernia that occur, a ItriCture of the palfage in the ex- ternal oblique mufcle is to be confidered as the caufe of all the bad fymptoms, yet now and then inftances of the contrary are obferved; one of which I met with fome years ago, and I have heard of others of the fame kind.—In a cafe of fcrotal her- nia of long ftanding, fymptoms of ftran- gulation at laft fupervened; and on laying open the fac, the appendix vermiformis was found fo tightly twifted round a por- tion34? Of Hertilce. Sea. II. tion of gut, as left no reafon to doubt of that circumftance alone having been the caufe of all the mifchief. If the parts had here been returned into the abdomen with- out dividing the fac, no advantage what- ever would have occurred from the ope- ration ; and, after death, the praaitioner would have had the mortification to find, that, in ail probability, the patient’s life might have been faved, if this very necef- fary meafure had not been emitted. Inftances of the protruded parts being returned into the abdomen without open- ing the fac, are enunierated by different French authors ; and in fome of thefe which ended fatally, it was found on difi- feaion, that flrangulation of the gut had been occafioned by ftriaure formed by the parts contained within the fac, and not by the tendon of the external oblique mufcles. Difafters of a nature fimilar to thefe we have mentioned, having on different occa- fions occurred to Mr Petit and others who had adopted the pradice of returning the parts348 Chap. V. Of Hernia, parts contained in the fac without divid- ing the fac itfelf, it has now accordingly been very generally laid afide. Even Mr Petit himfelf was at laft (b convinced of the inconveniences refulting from it, that he is faid to have joined keenly with thofe who had oppofed it from the time of its being firft introduced. ^ By fome authors again, it is advifed, to reduce not only the protruded bowels, but even the hernial fac itfelf, without opening it; whilft by others, it is alleged, that the fac can never be reduced. Mr Louis, in the paper we have already quoted, is clearly of this laft opinion, as Mr Pott alfo is. But we have the teftimony of different authors of credit, and particularly of Mr Le Dran, to the contrary; and 1 have myfelf met with one inftance of this, where the ap- pearances were fb unequivocal as to leave no doubt with me refpedling it. In cafes of hernia where the parts have been long and repeatedly down, fuch firm adhefions are ufually formed between the fac and the contiguous parts, as to reduce them349 Se6l. II. Of Hernia. them apparently into one infeparable mafs; fo that, in fuch circumftances, redudion of the fac becomes altogether impra<5licable. But although this is perhaps in every in- ftance found to be the cafe in ruptures of long continuance, we are by no means war- ranted in fuppoling that it is fo in every cafe of recent hernia. We know that the adhefion of one part of the body to another, cannot any where be inftantaneoufly pro- duced. Even where recent divifion has ta- ken place, and when the divided parts are kept in clofe contact, the fpace of feveral days is commonly required to effedl a firm reunion. Now in the cafe of a portion of membrane being forced into a natural open- ing, where the parts are neither rendered raw by art, nor are as yet affedled with in- flammation, a ftill longer period we may fuppofe will be neceffary for this efFecft; and in fadl, altho* I fuppofe there is fcarce an inftance of a hernial fac of long dura- tion being reduced, yet there are fundry indifputable fads which fhow, that in re- cent ruptures the fac maybe returned. The one /350 Chap. V. Of Hernhs. one above alluded to, which occurred in an operation at which I was prefenc feveral years ago, had been down five or fix days, and formed a tumor in the groin of the fize of an egg: The fac did not in any point fefem to adhere; the operator therefore found no difficulty in reducing it; and on difle(5lion after death, which happened in about two days from the operation, the paf- fage through the external oblique mufcle was found dilated, but no exiftence of a fac could be traced into it. It is not, howevetj my own opinion, that this is a matter of much importance in prad^ice, I mean the pracflicability of reducing the hernial fac or iiot; for, the various reafons we have already given, againft the propriety of returning the contents of a fac without opening it, occur with equal force againft the propofed pradlice of returning the fac itfelf unopen- ed. But as there is a poffibility of future experience deriving fome advantage from this circumftance, it is certainly right to have the fad as clearly eftabliffied as poffible. Hitherto we have been fuppofing the 3Of Hernid:, 352 Sedl. II. diforder to exlft in a male fubjed only • but as the fame openings in the external oblique mufcle are met with in females, fo they are alfo liable to the fpecies of rup- ture we have juft been defcribing, ' > In males, however, the bubonocele is ob- ferved to occur more frequently than in Wo- men, and as in them too the cellular mem- brane furrounding the fpermatic veffels is very lax and dilatable, fo hernial fwellings of this kind are commonly much larger in men than in women. But inftances do now and then occur of ftich tumors even in women becoming very large; in fuch cafes, the protruded parts fall down to the very bottom almoft of the labia pudendi. As the openings in the external oblique mufcles of females are exceedingly fimilar to thofe in male fubjedls, fo the treatment of this fpecies of hernia is in them very fimilar to what is found to anfwer in men. In cafes of ftrangulated gut, when glyfters, blood-letting, and the other remedies for- merly enumerated, happen to fail, the fame operation of laying open the hernial fac, and35^ Of Hernia, Chap.V and of enlarging the opening in the ten- don of the oblique mufcle, is here equally proper as in the other fex. With modeft women, diforders of this kind often take place without the prad:i- tioner in attendance being made acquaint- ed with them; whenever therefore fuch fymptoms of colic occur as give reafon to fufpedl the exiftence of hernia, a particular | examination ought always to be made, in ^ order if poflible to detecSf the caufe of the | mifchief, from the removal of which a cure can alone be expedled. SECTION III. Of the Hernia Congenita, T>Y attending to the anatomical defcrip- | tion given in the firft fedlion, of the | parts chiefly concerned in cafes of hernia, | it muft evidently appear, that in the ordi- \ nary fpecies of fcrotal hernia, the parts pro- j truded from the abdomen muft of necef- i fity be contained in a bag or fac perfe<5lly diftind from the tefticle; which in that | kind353 Of Hernlce, Sedl. III. kind of rupture is always found in its ufual fituation in the fcrotum, furrounded by its own proper membrane the tunica vagina- lis, and not in contact with any other part whatever. We then made it appear too, that if in early infancy a portion of gut fliould flip down by the fame paflTage with the tefticle, that the parts fo protruded mufl; be in im- mediate contact with the teftis, and mufl: thus be furrounded with the tunica vagi- nalis j fo that in this fpecies of rupture, very properly by Haller termed Hernia Congenita, the tunica vaginalis teftis forms the hernial fac. The difcovery of this fpecies of hernia, which was referved for modern times, en- ables us to account for a number of cafes recorded in books of furgery, of the con- tents of ruptures having been found in the fame bag with the tefticle: A circumftance which, till this difcovery, was always con- fidered as a clear proof of the peritonaeum being frequently ruptured in thofe difor- ders; as there was not otherwife a pofli- VoL. I. Z . bilityOf Hernia, Chap, V. ^54 bility of accounting for the phenomenon. But we now know, that the peritonseum in thefe cafes of hernia is never ruptured; and that the parts forming a hernial tumor being found in contadl: with the tefticle, is a circumftance eahly explained from our more accurate anatomical ,knowledge of thofe parts. In the treatment of ruptures of the con- genital kind, little difference occurs from the management of the bubonocele in its more ordinary form. When the parts can be replaced without any operation, it ought always to be done, a trufs being at the fame time recommended as a preventative of future defeents ; and when fymptoms of flrangulation take place, which cannot be ;^otherwife removed than by the operation, -it here becomes equally neceffary as in any other fpecies of rupture. - When from the circumftance of the parts having been protruded in early in- fancy, and from their having at times con- tinued to fall into the ferotum from that period downwards, there is reafon to fuf- , . .355 Of Herniis, Sea. III. pea that the hernia to be operated upon is of the congenital kind, the furgeon in fuch a cafe, in laying open the contents of the tumor, muft proceed with dill more cau- tion than in cafes of ordinary rupture; for the tunica vaginalis which here forms the fac, is commonly much thinner than the ufual fac of hernias. On the parts being returned, more attention is neceflary too in drefhng the wound than in other cafes of hernia; for the tefticle being here laid bare by its vaginal coat being cut open, if it is not treated with much delicacy it will very probably inflame, and may thereby be pro- ducflive of much diftrefs. The teftis there- fore ought to be immediately enveloped with its own proper covering, the loofe tu- nica vaginalis; and at every drefTing, care fhould be taken to prevent as effedlually as poflible every accefs to the external air. In other refpedls the management of the hernia congenita is perfedlly fimilar to that of any other rupture. Z 2 SEC-55 6 Of HernU, Chap.V, SECTION IV. Of the Crural or Femoral Hernia. T HE feat of this fpecies of hernia, as we have elfewhere remarked, is on the tipper and anterior part of the thigh ; the protruded parts paffing out at the fame opening through which the large blood- veffels of the thigh are tranfmitted from the abdomen. In the defcription given in a former fec- tion, of the external oblique mufcles of the abdomen, the under edge of thefe mufcles, it was remarked, by doubling backwards, forms a kind of ligament, which extends in an oblique diredlion from the fpine of the ileum near to the fymphifis pubis. It is this under border of thefe mufcles which is commonly known by the name of Pou- part’s or Fallopius’s ligament. Excepting at its two extremities where this ligament is attached to the pubes and ileum, it is not in any other part con- nected with bone. By the particular lhape of the ileum at this part, a kind of arch is formed357 Of HerniiS, Sea. TV. formed by the ll^rament paffiag over a hol- low in that bone through which the large artery and vein« of the thigh find a paf- fage, the reft of the cavity being filled up with cellular fubftance, glands, and fat; and all thefe parts again are covered and tied down by a firm tendinous aponeurofis of the fafcia lata of the thigh. It is under the tendon or ligament juft now defcribed, that the parts compofing a crural hernia defcend. On fome occafions they pafs immediately over the femoral ar- tery and vein ; on others, they are found on the outfide of thefe veffels; but more frequently they lie on the infide, between them and the os pubis. As the protrufion of any of the abdo- minal contents produces in this fituation nearly the fame fet of fymptoms as occur in cafes of inguinal hernia, the method of treatment recommended in that fpecies of the difeafe is alfo applicable here. When, therefore, in the femoral hernia, fymptoms of ftrangulation occur, we muft put all the remedies in pradfice already Z 3 advifedChap. V, Of Hernia, advifed for the inguinal rupture: Only here, in attempting to reduce the parts by the hand, the preflure Ihould be made di- redlly upwards, inftead of obliquely out- wards, as we diredled in the other ; and when thefe means are unfortunately found to fail, the operation itfelf muft then be employed. A free external incifion was inculcated in cafes of inguinal hernia; and it is here equally neceflary, or even more fo, from the parts concerned being more deeply feated than in the other. By too much timidity in making the external inciiion, the ope- rator is frequently much incommoded in all the fubfequent fheps of the operation. The external cut fhould extend at leaft from an inch above the upper end of the tumor to the fame fpace below the moft depend- ing part of it. The membrana adipofa, tendinous ex- panfion of the fafcia lata, and hernial fac, being all cautioufly divided, if the pro- truded parts are found in a fituation pro- per for reduction, we fliould immediately attemptOJ Hern Sea. IV. 359 attempt to replace them; and as the fpace below the ligament through which they liave palTed is conhderable, this may fre- quently be done without dividing the liga- ment, merely by prelTure properly applied with the hand, while the patient’s body is placed in the pofture we have already di- reaed in the bubonocele as being belt fuit- ed for favouring a return of the bowels. When in this manner the contents of the tumor can be reduced without the necef- fity of dividing the ligament, the patient is thereby fived from a great deal of ha- zard, as from the particular lituation of the fpermatic velTels and epigaftric artery Vvdth refpea to this ligament, any cut made into the fubftance of the latter, runs a very great riilv of dividing one or other of them. The fpermatic veflels as they go along to pafs out at the opening in the external oblique mufcle, run nearly upon the very edge or boarder of Poupart’s ligament al- motl: through its whole length, fo that i conlider it as impoiTible to make a free Z 4 divi-360 Chap.V. Of Hernia, divifion of the ligament without cutting them acrofs. We have been advifed indeed by fome, in order to avoid wounding the fpermatic veffels, which they acknowledge would cer- - tainly happen if the inciiion fliould be car- ried diredlly upwards, to cut in an oblique diredlion outwards. In this method, they allow, that the epigaftric artery, from the courfe it ufually takes, may very probably be divided: But the rilk attending the di- vifion of that artery they do not confider as of much importance; and if the dif- charge of blood occafioned by any wound that may be made in it fhould happen to be confiderable, they fpeak of it as a very eafy matter to take it up by a needle and liga- ture, and needles of various fliapes have been' invented for this purpofe. Even in emaciated people, however, it is a matter of much difficulty to reach the epigaftric artery, and in corpulent patients it will be found altogether impoffible to furround it with a ligature; fo that the younger part of the profeffion ought to be very cautious, inSea. IV. Of Hernia. 361 in receiving the direaions nfually given on this fubjea. On reading the remarks of the late Mr Sharpe upon this point*, to fecure the epigaflric artery by means of a ligature, one would expea to be the eafieft of all operations; but the difficulty which in re- ality attends it, is fuch as mull convince every one who has tried it, that Mr Sharp himfelf had never put it in praaice. But even although this accident of wounding the epigaftic artery could be guarded againft in the moft eafy and effec- tual manner, yet I will venture to fay, when a femoral hernia is of any conlider- able llze, the diflenfion of the ligament thereby produced muft bring the fpermatic veffels fo nearly on a line with the under border of the ligament, as to render it al- together impoffible to divide the one with- out the other; and whoever will examine thefe parts in the ftate we have now de- fcribed, will fee that this cannot be avoided, whether the incifion be carried direcidly upwards, I f Critical Inquiry into the prefent ftate of Surgery.of Hcrnice, 362 Chap.V. upwards, or even ol>lique]y outwards or inwards. Some authors, from being fenlible of the danger attending this part of the operation, have propofed merely to dilate the paffage, inftead of dividing the ligament; and Mr Arnaud, a French writer on this fubjedl, delineates a curved levator for the purpofe of fupporting the ligament till the pro- truded parts are reduced: but as we are to fuppofe in every cafe, of ftrangulated her- nia, that the paffage through which the parts have fallen down is already dilated to nearly its utmoft poffible extent, in fuch a fituation to attempt a farther dilatation without the affiflance of the knife, would feldom, it is probable, be produdlive of any advantage. A confiderable time ago it occurred to me, that in this part of the operation fome affiflance might be derived from perform- ing it in the following manner; and ha- ving fince had occafion to make trial of it in one cafe where it anfwered mofl effec- tually, I can now therefore recommend it withSedl. IV, Of Hernia, ^63 with fome certainty. Inftead of dividing the ligament in the ordinary way, I only made an incifion into part of its thicknefs: In order to protedl the parts below, I firft inlinuated the fore-finger of my left hand- between the gut and the ligament; and then with a common fcalpel made a cut of about an inch in length, beginning above and proceeding to the under border of the ligament. The firft fcratch with the fcalpel was very flight; but by repeated touches, it was made to penetrate almoft through the whole thicknefs of the ligament, till at laft a very thin lamella only of it remained: The finger being now. withdrawn, the protru- ded parts were returned with great eafe, the ligament at its weakened part yielding gradually as the neceflary preflure was ap- plied for the redudlion of the inteftines. As in this manner the opening may be enlarged to any neceflary extent, and as the fpermatic veflTels and epigaftric artery are thus effectually avoided, the operation for this fpecies of hernia may not only be dons364 Of Hernia, Chap.V. done with equal certainty, but with the fame degree of fafety, as for any other kind of rupture. For, by not penetrating with the fcalpel through the whole thick- nefs of the ligament under which thefe blood-veffels lie, they are thereby kept free from all kind of danger during this part of the operation; and, the prefTure to be afterwards ufed for the redu(5lion of the protruded parts, if done in an eafy gradual manner, as it ought always to be, can never injure them materially ; as blood-veffels bf the lize and ftrength of which thefe are, eafily admit of a degree of extenfion much more confiderable than can be here required. The femoral hernia being in other re- fpedls perfedlly (imilar to the inguinal, and the mode of treatment applicable to the one, being in every other circuraftance equally fo to the other, it is not neceffary to fay any thing farther here concerning it: Only we may remark with refpedl to bandages for retaining the dreffings, both in this and every other fpecies of hernia, exceptSe6l. IV. Of Hernlts, 365 except in the bubonocele, as laft de- fcribed, in which the ordinary fufpenfory bandage of .the fcrotum anfwers the pur- pofe in a very eafy effecStual manner, that in no other fituation can a bandage be ap- plied, without being produdlive of much inconvenience. For inhance, the Spica, as it is termed, which after the operation of the crural hernia, ufed always to be employed, can never be applied but with much dif- ficulty; nor does it anfwer the purpofe properly: Inftead of this or any other bandage, a piece of thin leather fpread with any plafter moderately adhefive, be- ing applied over the drefii :gs, retains them more effedlually, and with much more eafe. We have elfewhere remarked, that from the particular conformation of the parts concerned in this difeafe, which is found to take place in females, that women are more liable to it than men. In them the fame means of relief, and the fame mode of operating, ought to be em- . ployed366’ Of Herni<^, Chap.V. ployed as we have already advifed for male fubjedls. For, as the fame rifle oc- curs here of wounding the epigaftric ar- tery, the fame precautions are neceflary for avoiding it; and by attending to the direc- tions we have given upon this point, this may be always done with certainty. SECTION V. Of the Exomphalos, or Umbilical Rupture. JN this fpecies of hernia, the parts pro- truded from the abdomen pafs out at the umbilicus; and the contents of the hernial fac are here, as in every other kind of rupture, exceedingly various. On fome occafions they confift of inteflines only; fometimes of omentum only ; and fre- quently of both. At other times, again, part of the ftomach, the liver, and even the fpleen, have been found in the fac of an umbilical rupture. As all the parts we have now men- tiond, are, while in the abdomen, con- tained in the peritoneum, the hernial fac, I itSea.V. Of Hernia. 367 it is evident, muft be here formed as well as in other ruptures, by that membrane being carried along with fuch parts as are protruded. Accordingly, in every recent inftance of umbilical hernia, this fac is in general very evident; but when the tu- mor has become confiderable in fize, by a long continuance, and the great weight of its contents, the fac, by the prefTure tlius produced, becomes fo connedled with the neighbouring parts, that by many it has been doubted whether this fpecies of her- nia has a fac or not. In ruptures of this kind the fwellings fometimes increaTe to fuch a degree, as a(5lually to burft the furrounding parts; not only the fac, and cellular fubftance, but even the fldn it- felf. This diforder occurs moft frequently in infancy, foon after birth; and corpulent people are more liable to it than thofe of a contrary habit, from this evident reafon, that in the former, by the great bulk of contained parts, the furrounding mufcles .are kept conftantly diftended, and the . open-368 Of Hernia, Chap.V* opening at the umbilicus through which the parts are protruded, is thereby made more pervious: For the fame reafon too, women in the laft months of pregnancy are particularly liable to umbilical rup- tures. If the diforder is attended to in due time, a bandage properly fitted to the parts will commonly effect: a cure; and, in fuch fwel- lings as occur in pregnancy, a removal of the diforder is, in general, a certain confe- quence of delivery. But even in cafes of umbilical hernia in pregnant women, by employing a bandage on the firft appear- ance of the difeafe, and by perfevering in the ufe of it for a proper length of time, although a cure may not be obtained till delivery; the diforder will at lead be pre- vented from receiving any farther increafe. Both in male and female patients, due at- tention to the ufe of a trufs is abfolutely necelfary in every cafe of hernia ; but as in this fpecies of the difeafe the fwelling and different fymptoms are always greatly aggravated by pregnancy, women in that 2 date369 Sea.V. Of Hernia, (late ought to be particularly attentive to the fmalleft appearance of every fwelling of this nature. Although in fome inftances of umbilical ruptures, different portions of the alimen- tary canal are found to be protruded; yet by experience we know, that the omentum alone is much more frequently protruded than any of the other vifcera: And hence umbilical herniae in general, are not pro- ductive of fuch bad fymptoms as ufually occur in the other kinds of rupture. It happens, however, as we have already obferved, that in fome cafes a portion of gut alone is pufhed out, by which the ufual fymptoms of a ftrangulated hernia are apt to be induced. In which event, when the means ufually employed for returning the gut into the abdomen do not fucceed, as a ftriCture of the paffage through which the gut has fallen, is to be confidered as the caufe of the diforder; fo a cure, it is evi- dent, mufl depend entirely on a thorough' removal of that ftriClure. *In performing this operation, a free external incifion along VoL. I. A a theChap.V, of Hernu, 370 the courfe of the tumor, is the firft flep to be taken ; and on laying the protruded parts bafe by a cautious divifion of the fac, if they are found in a date proper to be returned, and if that cannot be effedled without making an enlargement of the paffage into the abdomen, this may be done with great fafety by introducing the finger, and enlarging the opening as far as is ne- cefiary with the blunt-pointed biftoury. This incifion,. we may remark, may be made with almoft equal fafety in any di- re(5lion ; but left the ligament formed by the umbilical veftels fliould be wounded, which, however, would not probably occa- fion much injury, yet if any perfon is ap- prehenfive of danger from that circum- ftance, it may be always avoided by ma- king the incifion on the left-fide of the umbilicus, and carrying it a little oblique- ly upwards and outwards. When, again, the prolapfed parts, on being laid open, are found to be fo far difeafed as to render their rediuftion im- proper, the diregions formerly given for theSefl.V, Of Hernice. 371 the treatment of fimilar occurrences in other cafes of hernia, apply with equal propriety here, fo that they need not now be repeated. By Albucafis, Guido, Aquapendens, and other authors, it has been propofed, with a view to obtain a radical cure without ha- ving recourfe to the operation, to lift up the fkin covering the tumor, with the fin- ger and thumb, fo as to fep^irate it from the gut underneath ; when a ligature is ordered to be applied round the parts fo held up, and to be made of fuch a tight- nefs as to induce a mortification of all the parts that lie anterior to it. In other inftances again, when the form of the fwelling did not admit of this, the fame precaution being taken as we have di- rected above for avoiding the gut, a needle containing a double ligature was introduced at the bafis of the tumor, near to its centre, and the ligatures were afterwards tied one above and the other below, of fuch a de- gree of tightnefs as to induce the wifhed for effect. But as the praClice thus recommended A a 2 was372 Chap. V. Of Hernics, was not adequate to the defign propofed, as it did not prevent a return of the dif- order, and as the deftrud;ion of fkin pro- duced by it rendered every future defcent more dangerous ; fo it is now, at leaft by regular praditioners, very univerfally ex- ploded. SECTION VI. % Of Ventral Hernia. J N this fpecies of hernia the parts form- ing the fwelling are protruded between the interftices- of the abdominal mufcles. No part of the abdomen is altogether ex- empted from the occurrence of fuch tu- mors, but they are moft frequently obfer- ved in fome of the parts mod contiguous to the linea alba; and when theftomach alone happens to form the tumor, the fwelling is fituated juft under, or immediately to one ftde of the xiphoid cartilage. The treatment of this kind of rupture correfponds exactly with that of exompha- los. When the parts are reducible by the hand373 Of Hernia, Sea.VI. hand merely, a cure may be frequently obtained by the conftant ufe of a trufs; and, again, when fymptoms of ftrangula- tion occur, which cannot be otherwife re- moved than by an incilion through the ftriaure, this muft be done in the man- ner dire^ed in the laft Se^ion, fo as to admit of the parts being replaced. The after-treatment of the parts concerned in the operation, is the fame here as in other kinds of rupture. SECTION VII. Of the Hernia of the Foramen Ovale. JN this variety of rupture, the vifcera protrude through the foramen ovale of the pubis and ifchium. it is not by any means a frequent diforder ; but, as it does fometimes occur, it is neceffary here to defcribe it. The fymptoms in this kind of hernia being very fimilar to thofe produced by the ftrangulation of inteftines in other parts, it is not neceffary to enumerate A a 3 them:Of Hernlds, Chap. V, 374 them: Only it is proper to remark, that in this rupture the tumor is in men formed near to the upper-part of the perinseum; and in women, near to the under-part of one of the labia pudendi. In both fexes it lies upon the obturator externus, between the pecfcinseus mufcle and the firfl; head of the triceps femoris. The foramen ovale being partly filled up by a membranous or ligamentous fub- ftance,’ and in part by the obturatores mufcles, it was commonly fuppofed that this fpecies of hernia arofc from a relaxa- tion of one or other of thefe; but as an opening is left in the foramen for the tranfmifllon of different blood-vefTels and nerves, it is now known, that in this dif- order the vifcera pafs out at that opening, by gliding down in the courfe of thefe vefTels. The general mode of treatment, as we formerly recommended for other fpecies of hernia, muft be here attended to; and when the parts are reduced, a trufs, pro- perly adapted to the parts, mull be trufted to375 Of Heriiice. Sea. VII. to for their retention. But as it will fome- times happen in this, as in every other cafe of hernia, that reduaion cannot be effea- ed by the hand alone, in that event, the operation of dilating the paffage through which the inteftines protrude, is the only refource. The tumor, however, that oc- curs in this diforder, being in general fo fmall as fcarcely to be noticed but by the moft minute examination, unlefs a local pain, with the ufual fymptoms of a ftran- gulated gut lead to its deteaion, it is lel- dom difcovered from its lize, dll it is too late to expea much affiflance from art. But whenever the operation becomes ne- ceflTary, as it mufi; alvv^ays be when fymp- toms of flrangulation are difcovered to have arifen from a portion of gut being protruded, and which cannot by any other means be removed ; in fuch an event, af- ter carefully laying the prolapfed parts freely bare, if they cannot then be reduced but by dilating the paffage, and as death muft be the certain confequence if that (honld not be effedled, it ought at all events A a 4 to37^ Herma;. Chap. V. to be attempted; But as here it is almoft impoffible to enlarge the opening by means of any fharp inftrument, without dividing fome of the blood-veffels which pafs out at the foramen; and as fuch an occurrence, from thefe veffels being of a confiderable fize, would of itfelf, in all probability, end in the patient’s death, the depth and fitua- tion of the parts rendering the application of a ligature impra<5licable; it is more ad- vifable, by means of fuch a flat hook as is reprefented in Plate IX. fig. 2. to dilate the pafiage to a fufiicient fize by gentle gra- dual ftretching. By infinuating the end of the hook between the intefline and li- gament, and pulling it gradually from wfithout inwards, a degree of dilatation may be obtained fufiicient for the reduc- tion of the gut, without incurring that ha- zard which the divifion of the ligament with the knife or any fharp inftrument mnft always occafion. SEG^Sea. VIII. Of Hernia. 377 SECTION VIII. Of the Hernia Cyfica, or Hernia of the Urinary Bladder. JN this fpecies of rupture, the urinary bladder is the organ protruded; and the lituations in which it occurs, either in the groin and fcrotiim, through the opening in the external oblique rhufcle of the abdo- men ; in the fore-part of the thigh, under Poupart’s ligament; or in the perinseum, through fome of the mufcular interflices of that part*. Inftances have occurred, too, of the bladder being puflied into the vagina, fo as to form hernial tumors of no inconfiderable degrees of magnitude. As only a part of the bladder is covered with the peritonseum; and as the bladder, in order to get into the opening in the ex- ternal oblique mufcle, or under the liga- ment of Fallopius, mull inlinuate itfelf between that membrane and the abdo- minal mufcles; it is evident, that the hernia * An inftance of this is recorded in Vol. IV. of Metnolres de I’Academie Royale de Chirurgle, by Monf. Pipelet le Jeune, p. i8i.Chap. V. 378 Of Hernia, Y hernia cyftica cannot be covered with a fac, as inteflinal ruptures ufually are. In the peringeum, again, that portion of the blad- der moft liable to fall into it, is in no way connected with the peritonseum. On forne occalions, this fpecies of rupture occurs by itfelf, without any complication; and on others it is found to be accompanied with inteftines and omentum, both in inguinal and femoral herniae: When complicated with a bubonocele, that portion of the blad- der which is protruded lies between the hernial fac and fpermatic cord; that is, the inteftinal hernia lies anterior to it. The ufual fymptoms of this fpecies of hernia are, A tumor, attended with fluc- tuation, either in the groin, in the fore- part of the thigh, or peringeum, which generally fubfides when the patient voids urine. When the fwelling is large, before water can be made with freedom, it is commonly neceflary to have recourfe to preflure, at the fame time that the tu- mor, when in the groin or thigh, is as juuch elevated as pofTible; but when the fwelling379 -Sea. VIII. Of Hermes. fwelling is fmall, and efpecially when no ilriaurc is as yet produced, the patient generally makes water with great eafe, and without any affiftance from external prefTure. When a hernia of the bladder occurs without any complication, it is common- ly found to proceed from a fuppreffion of urine. In the treatment, therefore, every caufe of fuppreffion ought as far as pof- fible to be guarded againft; and when no adhelions take place, and if the protruded portion of bladder can be reduced, a trufs properly fitted to the part, ffiould be wore for a confiderable length of time; And, again, when the parts cannot be reduced, as long as no fymptoms occur to render the operation neceffary, a fufpenfory bag, fo fitted as effeftually to fupport the pro- lapfed parts, while at the fame time it does not produce fevere preffure, is the only probable means of relief. When, again, a portion of bladder happens to protrude into the vagina, after reducing the parts, which is done by laying the patient on her backOf Hernuff, Qiap. V. 380 back with her loins fomewliat elevated, and preffing with the fingers from the va- gina, defcents in future may in general be effedlually prevented by the ufe of the peflary reprefented in Plate IX. fig. i. And the fame means, we may remark, are em- ployed with fuccefs in preventing a fall- ing down of part of the inteftinal canal into the vagina; a fpecies of rupture which now and then occurs. It may happen, however, that the pro- lapfed parts, by being attacked with in- flammation and pain in confequence of ftridlure, may render the divifion of the parts producing thefe fymptoms as ne- ceffary in this as in any other cafe of her- nia ; in which event, the diredlions given in the preceding fedlions for the treatment of inteftinal hernias, will be equally appli- cable here.—Only it muft be remembered, that as in the hernia cyftica without any complication, the protruded parts are not covered with a fac; fo a ftill greater de- gree of caution is neceflary in laying them bare.riaic 1^ • r /3r//cSec5l.VIII. Of Hermes ^ 381 bare, than in the ordinary kinds of rup- ture. It fometlmes happens, that ftones are produced in that portion of the bladder which remains protruded; in which event, if it fhould ever become neceffary to cut into them, if the bladder can be eahly re- tained in its prolapfed date till the wound is healed, it ought always to be attempt- ed, in order to prevent that extravafation of urine internally which would otherwife occur, and which in all probability would do mifehief. The fame precaution, too, becomes neceffary, if, either by accident in the operation for the hernia cyftica, the bladder Ihould be cut into; or if any part of it has been found mortified, fo as to render it improper to return it into its ufual fituation CHAP. ♦ The beft accounts to be obtained of the various fpecies of hernia may be had in the works of Le Dran, Heifter, and of Mauchart in a treatife DeHernia Incar- cerata; in the different volumes of Memoires de I Aca- demic Royale de Chirurgie of Paris j in the Medical Ef- fays.382 Of the Hydrocelet Chap. Vi CHAP. VL Of Hydrocele. S E C T I O N I. General Remarks on the Hydrocele, Every tumor formed by a collecRioil of water, might, from the import of the word, be with propriety denominated a fays of Edinburgh; in theWorks of the late Dr Monro; in Haller De Hernia Congenita, in his Opufcula Patho- logica; in Mr John Hunter’s very accurate account of the (late of the Teftis in the Foetus in Dr Hunter’s Medical Commentaries ; and in Mr Pott’s valuable Treatife on Ruptures. Thefe are the heft modern au- thors on this fubje^l; and very little fatisfa^Hon is to be got from any of the ancient writers upon it.Se6l. I. Of the Hydrocele, a Hydrocele; but the chirurgical accep- tation of the term, implies a watery fwell- ing lituated in the fcrotum or fpermatic cord. Swellings of this kind, as well as every other fpecies of tumor in the fcrotum or groin not immediately produced by the protruiion of parts from the abdomen, are by ancient writers termed Falfe or Spurious Hernise, in oppofition to thofe defcribed in the laft Chapter, which they diftinguiflied by the appellation of I’rue Hernia, No real utility, however, is derived from this diftindlion; and as it arofe from a very erroneous notion which prevailed of the origin of thefe diforders, we fhould not have thought it necelTary to mention it here, but with a view to render intelli- gible the ideas of ancient writers upon this fubje(5l. Indeed, the opinions concerning thefe difeafes, as handed down to us by all the older writers, by which I mean thofe of the laft and former centuries, are in gene- ral fo confufed and perplexed, that few of 2 ' them3^4 Of the Hydrotek, Chap.VL 3 chirur- them are worth much attention : For, as they were very ignorant of the anatomy of the parts concerned, the ideas they formed of the fituation of the difeafes to which they are liable, were fo erroneous, that the pradlice built upon them came to be very pernicious.—So little were they acquainted with the flru6lure of thefe parts, that they proceeded with much unneceflary dread in the treatment of their diforders; for, by fuppofing an immediate connedlion to fubfift between the coats of the tefticle, the cavity of the abdomen, liver, kidneys, and other vifcera, they were induced to confi- der the colledlions of water that occur in the hydrocele, as depofitions from thefe parts, and as tending to free them, and perhap$ the fyftem at large, from dome important diforders. Different paffages in Hildanus, Lanfranc, Fabricius ab Aqua- pendente, and even in Dionis’s works, fliow this to have been the idea of praditioners in the times of thefe authors. In confequence of this, their pradlice became timid and undecided j fo that everySea. I. 3S5 Of the Hydrocele, chirurgical operation, in which thofe parts were concerned, became a matter of great importance to refolve upon, and very te- dious, painful, and uncertain in the exe- cution. From the time of Celfus to the middle of the laft century, very. little progrefs feems to have been made in reducing the knowledge of thefe difeafes to greater cer- tainty. Indeed, from Celfus downwards, authors feem to have copied alinofl; exadl- ly from one another, till Wifeman, Le Dran, Garengeot, and Heifter, gradually elucidated the fubjedl: but they were ne- ver clearly and accurately deferibed, till the difcoveries of Monro, Haller, Hunter, and Pott, rendered the anatomy of the parts concerned plain and intelligible. So much attention, however, is ftill given to the confufed accounts of thefe parts hand- ed down by ancient writers, that the real nature of the diforders of the tefticle and its appendages is lefs underftood than it otherwife would be. There is no part, indeed, of chirurgical pathology, of which Yol. I, B b ftu-3S6 Of the Hydrocele^ Chsp. Vf, ftudents in general are fo ignorant as of this; and hence their notions of thefe dif- eafes, and of the anatomy of the parts in which they are feated, are commonly very indiftin^l,—Nothing but a ftridl attention to the difcoveries of late anatomifts can convey clear and diftindl ideas concern- ing them ; and whoever will make him- felf thoroughly acquainted with thefe, will find, that the hydrocele, and other difor- ders to which thefe parts are liable, are ex- plained with as much clearnefs and fim- plicity as any other difeafe incident to the human body. We have already, in the beginning of the preceding Chapter on Hernias, given a defcription of thefe parts, fo far as related to that clafs of difeafes. To what was then faid, we muft now beg leave to re- fer ; but before proceeding to treat far- ther of the diforders now under confide- ration, we fhall firft enumerate fuch parti- culars relating to the ftrudlure of the parts concerned as w^ere not formerly neceffary to be mentioned. InSedl. I. Of the Hydrocele387 In the anatomical defcription already given of thefe parts, we made it appear, that on the teftes with their blood-veflels defcending to the groin and fcrotum, as they were while in the abdomen furround- ed by the peritoneum in the fame manner with the other vifceraj and as in their de- fcent they bring a procefs of the perito- neum along with them, fo when in the fcrotum, that they ftill remain in the ca- vity of that membrane. At the time of their falling down, and for a {hort while thereafter, a dired: com- munication fubfifts along this procefs of the peritoneum between the teftes and vifcera in the abdpmen ; but foon after this, except, as we formerly obferved, in the cafe of a congenital herniaj the fupe- rior part of the pafTage begins to contrad, and in a fhort time is entirely obliterated, from the opening in the external oblique mufcle down along the fpermatic cord, to the upper part of the epididymis ; the under part of the procefs continuing loofe and open. In this manner the inferior ex- B b 2 tremity388 Of the Hydrocele. Chap. VI. tremity of the procefs is converted into a kind of bag, the tunica vaginalis teftis. From the defcription formerly given of thefe parts it appears, that the teftis while in the abdomen is at its back-part firmly connected to the peritoneum, at which part the blood-veflels, nerves, and vas de- ferens, communicate with it; fo when in the fcrotum, aS the vaginal coat with which it is there furrounded is evidently a pro- cefs or continuation of the peritonaeum, it muft of neceflity be ftill connedled with that membrane in the fame manner as while it remained in the abdomen. And accordingly we find, that although the tefticle lies loofe in this fac or vaginal coat in every other part, yet all along its pofte- rior part it is firmly attached to it. At this part the different veflels of the teftis ftill enter; and at this part the peritonaeum, or what is now the tunica vaginalis, is re- fiefted over it, thereby forming the tunica albuginea, dr itnmediate covering of the tefticle; fo that the latter, viz. the tunica albuginea, is demonftrably a mere conti- nuation of the former or vaginal coat. The -Se(5l. I. Of the Hydrocele, 389 The inferior part of the peritonasal pro- cefs being fomewhat wider below than above, leaves the tunica vaginalis of a py- ramidal form; and it is alfo fomewhat longer than the teftis, reaching from the fuperior part of the epididymis, where it begins, to a little below the inferior point of the tefticle, where it terminates. It is altogether of fuch a fize as to allow the teftis to roll eafily within it; its principal ufe appearing to be, to retain a fmall quan- tity of a fine exhalation, which is con- ftantly fecreting, either from its own fur- face, or from the furface of the teftis itfelf, -for the purpofe of keeping the latter moift and eafy. This vaginal coat which we have now defcribed is the only loofe covering be- .longing either to the fpermatic cord or to the teftis: For although, by many writers on this fubje(5l, a vaginal coat of the cord is alfo defcribed, together with a fuppofed feptum between it and the vaginal coat of the teftis ; yet no fuch covering is, on dif- fe(ftion, found to exift. The fuperior part B b 3 of35® Of the Hydrocele. Chap. VI, of the perltonaeal fpermatic procefs, we have already feen, is entirely clofed up very foon after the defcent of the tefticle j and a firm adhefion being produced be- tween the fides of the fac all along the courfe of the cord, no veftige whatever can be traced, either of a vaginal coat of I the fpermatic cord, or of any particular j feptum between that and the tefticle: This it is of fome importance to attend to, as the difeafes of thefe parts cannot otherwife . be properly underftood. As the difeafes we are now to treat of are chiefly feated in the coverings of the teftis, we have been more particular in ren- dering their ftrucfture clear and obvious, than is neceffary in defcribing the tefticle | itfelf; with refpedl to which we fhall only | obferve, that it is evidently very vafcular, ^ being compofed almoft entirely of differ- j; ent convolutions of blood^veffels. 1 Befides the vaginal coat proper to each j tefticle, the two teftes have for their far- ther prote<5lion a more external covering, ; the fcrotum: A bag formed almoft entire- jScdl. I. Of the Hydroceh. 391 ly of fkin and cellular fubdance ; for that body the dartos, which has commonly been luppofed to be rntifcular, is now clearly proved to be altogether cellular. Even the feptum fcroti, or that mem- brane which divides one teflis from ano- ther, is compofed of cellular fubftance in a more condenfed date. By air it is eafily inflated, and it is equally pervious to wa- ter ; fo of courfe it partakes of all thofe watery effufions, to which the more exter- nal parts of the fcrotum are liable. It is very necelTary to be acquainted with this ftrucdure of the fcrotum, as from the defcriptions which till of late have been given of it, young pradlitioners are induced to confider it as mufcular, and to fuppofe the feptum with its rapha to be ligamen- tous ; and hence they are led to be more cautious than they need be in performing operations upon it. We have thus entered with as much xninutenefs into the anatomy of thefe parts as is neceffary for underftanding their dif- jeafes 5 and the nature of this undertaking B b 4 notOf the Hydrocele. Chap. VI. 392 not admitting of a more particular difcuf- fion, we fliall now proceed to conlider the different fpecies of the hydrocele, the im- mediate objecfl of this chapter. All the varieties of the hydrocele w’^hich have been mentioned by authors, may, I think, be comprehended under the two following fpecies, viz. the anafarcous, and encyfted. In the former, the water is dif- fufed over all the fubftance of the part in which it is feated; the fwelling is not col- ledled in any particular cavity, but occu- pies equally all the cells of the part: In the latter, viz. the encyded, the water is col- dedfed in one diftindf bag; and a fluctua- tion of a fluid is in general perceptible' to the touch. The fcrotum, with its contents the tef- ticle and its appendages, are liable to both fpecies of the diforder ; and the fpermatic cord with its coverings, are alfo liable to both. We fhall firft treat of the fcrotal affections of this kind. SEC-- Sea. II. 393 Of the Hydrocele. SECTION If. Of the Anafarcous Hydrocele of the Scrotum, T HE ferotum from being entirely cel- , lular, and conneaed immediately with the trunk of the body, is rendered liable to partake of every diffulible fwelling with which the general conftitution is attacked: And accordingly we find, that anafarcous fwellings of other parts of the body, fel- dom fubfift for any length of time, with- out producing a fimilar affeaion of the ferotum. A local anafarcous fullnefs of the ferotum unattended with any general affeaion, has on fome occafions indeed been produced by a local caufe; viz. by the accidental preffure of a tumor on the lymphatics of the part; by external in- jury ; and by an effufion of urine from a rupture of the urethra: but fuch occur- rences are very rare, a general difeafe of the conftitution being the ufual fore- runner of fuch tumors. As foon as water is colleaed in any con- fiderable quantity in the ferotum, a foft, inelaftic,Of the Hydrocele, Chap. VI, 394 inelaftic, colourlefs tumor, is obferved over the whole of it; prefTure of the finger or of any hard body is eafily received, and the mark of fuch prefTure is for fome time retained by it: The fkin at firft preferves its natural appearance; and the rugse of the fcrotum, which in a ftate of health are al- ways remarkable, are not for fome time much altered; but as the fwelling advances they gradually difappear, till at laft they are totally obliterated: The fwelling, from being at firft foft and of a doughy feel, by degrees turns more firm ; and the colour of the fl^in, from being for fome time very little altered, at laft acquires an unnatural white, fhining appearance. As the difor- der increafes, the tumor by degrees becomes larger; and from being originally confined to the ufual boundaries of the fcrotum, it at laft fpreads up the groin; and the penis being likewife affe<fted, becomes fo fwelled and diftorted, as to be produ(ftive of much inconvenience and diftrefs: And although the fcrotum is compofed of parts which yeadily admit of excenfive dila.tation, yet inSetfl. ll. Of the Hydrocele. 395 ill fome inftances the fwelllng here be- comes fo enormous as to bur ft the fur- rounding parts entirely. The various appearances we have enu- merated are fo charadteriftic of the difeafe, as to render it almoft impoffible to con- found this fpecies of fwelling with any other tumor to which the fcrotum is li- able. We have already obferved, that inftances now and then occur of the fcrotal anafarca being produced by a local caufe ; but by much the greateft proportion of all fuch cafes depend upon a general hydropic ten- dency; fo that the cure of this kind of hydrocele muft depend almoft entirely on the removal of that habit of body which originally produced it. The treatment of the general diforder of the conftitution falls to the province of the phyfician, fo we ftiall not here enter into the confideration of it; but the af- fiftance of Surgery is frequently required for relieving that great diftrefs which ihefe tumors always produce when they arrive39^ Of the Hydrocele. Chap. VI. arrive at any confiderable degree of mag- nitude. In fuch circumftances, the objedl of Sur- gery is, by drawing off the water from the tumor, to diminilh the fize of it as much as poffible j which not only affords much immediate relief, but is a means of the diftended parts recovering their tone more readily than they otherwife would do. Different methods have been propofed for evacuating the water, viz. by the in- trodiuflion of a feton, by the trocar, by in- cifions, and by pun(5lures. All thefe methods, that by the trocar excepted, ferve very effedlually to evacuate the diffufed water ; and therefore we are to adopt that mode which not only creates lead pain, but which is lead liable to be produidive of troublefome confequences: And this unquedionably is the method by pun<dures. The feton and long fcarifications may evacuate the water fomewhat more quickly than pundlures; but in dropfical conditu- tions, fuch as this fpecies of hydrocele is com-Secfl. II. Of the Hydrocele^ commonly connedled with, they almoft conftantly go wrong. For the firft twenty-four hours or fo, fcarifications give the patient much fatif- fadlion; the water is almofl; entirely eva- cuated, the tumor is of courfe greatly di- minilhed, and much relief is thereby ob- tained. About this time, however, the Ica- rified parts commonly begin to fret, their edges turn hard and inflamed, and by degrees an eryfipelatous kind of rednefs fpreads over the neighbouring parts. That fretful uneafinefs which was at firft complained of, by degrees turns into what the patient terms a burning kind of pain, which frequently becomes fo tor- menting as to deftroy reft entirely; and it but too commonly happens, that all the applications employed for relief, have no manner of influence in preventing the acceflion of gangrene, by which the pa- tient is at laft in general carried off. I will not fay that fuch fymptoms are always induced by fcarifications, but I have in many inftances obferved them; andOf the Hydrocele, Chap. Vf,' 398 and on the contrary, although pundlures do now and then terminate in the fame manner, yet they are by no means fo ready to do fo As fcarifications are fo apt to produce mifchief here, there is much reafon to fuf- pedl that either the trocar or feton, which both give ftill more irritation, would com- monly prove more hurtful. They are now accordingly in this fpecies of the hydro- cele very generally laid afide. When fcarifications are to be employed, the method of doing it, is, with the flioul- der of a lancet to make two or three inci* fions on the moft depending part of the fcrotum, each of an inch in length, and extending no deeper than the cutis vera: And when pundlures are to be depended on, they are likewife to be made of this depth with the point of a fpear-pointed lancet; and five or fix on the moft promi- nent part of the tumor will commonly prove fufficient. This number will in ge- 2 neral * VideLeDran’sOperations, with Chefelden’s notes, p. n6j and Treatifeon Hydrocele by Mr Pott, p.40.Sedl. II. Of the Hydrocele, 399 neral evacuate the water very quickly; but when they do not prove fully ade- quate to the effedl propofed, or when in the courfe of a day or two thefe now made are found to heal, they may be re- newed from time to time as often as is ne- ceflary. Preferving the parts as dry as pofTible, by a frequent renewal of dry foft linen cloths, in order to imbibe the moifture, is here a very neceffary piece of attention; the want of it, I am convinced, is the caufe of much of the mifchief that frequently enfues from operations of this kind. ^ When either fcarifications or pun(5tures go wrong, by beginning to inflame and turn painful in the manner we have de- fcribed ; inflead of the warm emollient poultices and fomentations ufually em- ployed, a cold folution of faccharum fa- turni, applied upon foft linen, not only proves more effedlual in putting a flop to the farther progrefs of the inflammation, but affords more immediate relief to the prefent diflrefs. Aqua calcis employed in the400 Of the Hydrocele, Chap. VI. the fame manner proves alfo a very ufeful application. When, however, the diforder proceeds to gain ground, by a real mortification co- ming on, we fhould immediately have re- courfe to bark and other remedies ufually employed in fuch affec^lions. But as we have elfewhere treated fully upon this fub- je(5l, it is unneceffary to enter into a more particular confideration of it here It may only be proper to obferve, that although in general, when the fcrotum in • this difeafe happens to mortify, the great- eft danger is to be dreaded ; yet now and then very unexpedled cures are obtained, after all the teguments have been deftroy- ed by mortification. A remarkable cafe of this kind occurred foine years ago in the Royal Infirmary here: The whole fcro- tum feparated, and left the tefticles quite bare. During the time that the fore re- mained open, all the water colledled ih other parts of the body was evacuated, and I by * Vide Treatife on Ulcers, &c. Seftion IV. On Mortification-Sedl. II. Of the Hydrocele. 401 by the ufe of large quantities of bark and nriild drefllngs to the fore, the patient got well. In the courfe of the cure, the teftis became inveloped with a kind of cellular fubftance, which ferved as a very good means of protedlion. It mull have been fome produdlion of this kind, I fuppofe, which Hildanus fpeaks of as a regenerated fcrotum We have already obferved, that although this fpecies of hydrocele for the moil part depends upon a general dropfical tendency, that fome inftances, however, occur, of a local caufe producing a mere local dropfy of the fcrotum. Thus it has been known to happen, from fwellings in the groin and in the abdomen obftrudling the palTage of the refluent lymphatics. When this is the cafe, if the tumors producing fuch ob- flrudlions can be extirpated, no other means will afford fuch effedlual relief; but when they are fo deeply feated as to render any attempt for removing them improper, the practice we have already pointed out, of VoL. I. Cc pundlures * Obfervat. Chirurg. cent. 5. obf. 76.402 of the Hydrocele, Chap.VL pun6lures in the mofl; depending part of the tumor, muft be employed with a view to palliate fuch fymptoms as occur. It fometimes happens in cafes of fup* X preffion of urine, either from caruncles in the urethra, from ftones imparled in it, or from colle^lions of matter, that the ure- thra burfts, and the urine in this manner finding a paffage into the ferotum, an ana- farcous fwelling of it is thus fuddenly produced, which ftlll continues to ih- creafe till the caufe giving rife to it is re- moved In order to prevent the formation of - finufesi which in fuch circumftances will otherwife be apt to occur, an incifion fhould be made into the moft depending part of the ferotum, and carried to fuch a depth as is fufficient for reaching the wound in the urethra. In this manner a free vent will not only be given to the urine already dif- fufed, but the farther colledlion of it may very probably be prevented. If a ftone impacted in the urethra is found to be the caufe * The works of the late Dr Alex. Monro, p. 569.Sedl. II. of the Hydrocele. 40^ caufe of this efFufion, it ought to be cut out; if a colledion of matter is difcovered, the abfcefs fliould be opened ; and if the obftrudlion is produced by caruncles in the urethra* bougies fhould be employed for their removal. The caufe being thus removed, if the patient’s habit of body is good and un- tainted with any venereal or other gene- ral affedlion, by dreffing the fore proper- ly with foft eafy applications, the open- ing into the urethra will probably be brought to heal, and a complete cure will be in this manner obtained. But when fuch ailments are complicated with any general diforder of the fyftem, particu- larly with old venereal complaints, it fre- quently happens, that neither mercury nor any other medicine has much influence in rem.pving them. Every pracflitioner mull have met with inftances of this kind. Both in the hof- pital and in private I have met with fuch cafes, where, notwithftanding all the means employed for relief, the paffage C c 2 from404 Of the Hydrocele* Chap. VL from the urethra remained open, and con- tinued to difcharge conliderable quanti- ties of urine. Inftances of the fcrotal anafarca of a lo- cal nature, have alfo occurred, from the rupture of a hydrocele of the tunica vagi- nalis teflis : When this fpecies of hydro- cele arrives at a great fize, jumping from a height, or a violent blow or bruife of any kind, will readily burfl it; and the water not finding a paffage outwardly, mull neceffarily diffufe itfelf over the whole fcrotum. Different inftances of this kind have been met withj two of which are related by Douglafs And the fame kind of fwelling has been produced by the wa- ter of a hydrocele of the vaginal coat be- ing improperly drawn off by the opera- tion of tapping. When the orifice in the fliin is allowed to recede from the open- ing into the vaginal coat before the water is all difcharged, the remainder of the collection is very apt to diffufe itfelf thro’ all the cellular fubftance of the fcrotum. In *■ Treatife on the Hydrocele, by John Douglafs, 8.Sedl. II* Of the Hydrocele, fI05 C c 3 tumor In whichever of thefe ways the fw el ling is produced, the cure ought to confift in laying the tumor fufficiently open, not only for evacuating the diffufed water, but for efFe(5ting a radical cure of the hy- drocele of the tunica vaginalis. We have thus enumerated all the varie- ties of anafarcous fwellings to which the ferotum is liable, together with the modes of treatment adapted to each: For with refpe(5l to the hydrocele of the dartos, a difeafe particularly deferibed by ancient writers, as that part of the ferotum is now known to be altogether cellular, fo any water collecfled in it mnft tend to form that very difeafe we have now been de- feribing, an anafarcous fwelling of the whole ferotum. We now proceed to the confideratlon of that fpecies of the diforder, which, frona its being feated within the cavity of the ferotum, we have termed the encyjled hy- drocele of the ferotum. Of this there are two varieties, viz. the hydrocele of the tu- nica vaginalis teftis *, and that fpecies of4o6 Of the Hydrocele. Chap. VI, tumor formed by water collected in. the fac of a hernia. SECTION m. Of the Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis Teflh. HEN treating of the anatomy of thefe parts, we remarked, that in a ftate of health an aqueous fecretion is always found in the tunica vaginalis; the princi- pal ufe of which feems to be, to lubricate and keep the furface of the tefticle foft and eafy. In a healthy (late, this fluid is abforbed by the lymphatics of the part; its place being as conflantly fupplied by a frefh fe- cretion : But in difeafe, it frequently hap- pens, either that the fecretion of this fluid is morbidly increafed, or that the powers of the abforbing vefTels of the part are di- minifhed. The effecft of either of thefe caufes mull be, to induce a preternatural collection of water in the cavity of the va- ginal coat; and by a gradual accumula-. tion of this fluid, the fpecies of hydrocele which we are now confidering will be at lafj;Sedl. III. Of the Hydrocele, 407 laft produced. The fymptoms and appear- ances of the diforder are as follow. A fulnefs is at firfi; obferved about the inferior part of one of the tefticles^ which is at this time foft and compreffible; but as the tumor increafes in fize, it alfo be- comes more tenfe: No degree of preffure can make the fwelling difappear either at this or any other period of the difeafe: The teguments at firft preferve their na- tural appearance, both as to colour and rugohty; but as the water accumulates, the ikin gradually becomes more tenfe, although feldom or never to fuch a degree as to obliterate the rugae of the fcrotum entirely- The lliape of the tumor, which was at firft nearly globular, becomes gradually more pyramidal, being larger below than above: In the firft ftages of the diforder, the fwelling does not extend farther than the ufual boundaries of the fcrotum; but in procefs of time, it advances by degrees up to the abdominal mufcles; fo that altho’ in the early period of the difeafe, if it be C c 4 no?4oS Of the Hydrocele. Chap. VI, not combined with hernia, or with a hy» drocele of the cord itfelf, the fpermatic procefs may be always diftinddy felt, in its more advanced ftate it cannot pollibly be diftinguifhed. The weight of the tumor being now very great, the fkin of the neigh- bouring parts is dragged fo much along with it as to caufe the penis to fhrink confi- derably, and fometimes to difappear almoft entirely: And in this advanced ftate of the difeafe, the tefticle, which ufually lies at the back part of the tumor, and which for fome time after the commencement of the diforder could be diftincftly fel t, cannot now be evidently difeovered. On a minute exa- mination, however, a hardnefs is always to be felt along that part of the ferotum where the teftis is fituated: And a flutfluation of a fluid may in general be diftinguifhed through the whole courfe of the difeafe. It fometimes happens, however, in that very tenfe ftate of the tumor, which a long continuance of the difeafe ufually occafions, that the fluid contained in it cannot be evidently diftinguiflied: Nor in this fitua- tion409 Sed. Ill, Of the Hydrocele, tion is the ordinary charaderiftic mark of hydrocele more to be depended on; I mean, the tranfparency of the tumor when expo- fed to the light of a candle or of the fun. In the early ftages of the difeafe, when the contents of the tumor have not become dif- coloured, and when the vaginal coat has not yet acquired much thicknefs, the con- tained fluid, on being expofed to this trial, always appears tranfparent; and when it does fo, it always affords a corroborating proof of the exiflence of water: Yet its ab~ fence is by no means a proof of the con- trary; for as the tranfparency of the tumor depends entirely on the nature of its con- tents, and on the thicknefs of its coverings, whatever tends to render the one lefs clear, and the other of a more firm texture, muft in proportion to this effedl invalidate the certainty of the teft. During the whole courfe of the diforder the patient does not complain of pain in the tumor itfelf; but fome uneahnefs' is commonly produced in the back, by the weight of the fwelling on the fpermatic cord:410 Of the Hydrocele. Chap.VL cord: this, however, is generally either pre- vented altogether, or is at leaft much alle- viated, by the ufe of a proper fufpenfory bandage. Thefe are the ufual appearances of a hy- drocele when the difeafe is confined to one fide of the fcrotum, which is generally the cafe. But on fome occafions a double hy- drocele is met with, in which both tefticles are afFe6led in the fame manner; and in ■which the tumor, inftead of being confi- ned to one fide of the fcrotum, occupies the whole of it equally. As there are fome diforders with which this fpecies of hydrocele is apt to be con- founded, it is particularly necelfary to at- tend to fuch circumftances as mod readily chara6lerife it. Thefe diforders are, All the variety of fcrotal hernisej the anafarcous hydrocele of the fcrotum j the encyfted hydrocele of the fpermatic cord; the far- Cocele, or fcirrhous tefticle; and the hernia humoralis, or inflamed teftis. When treating of hernise, we enumerated fuch circumftances as, when properly con- fidered,411 Seel. Ilf* Of the Hydrocele. fidered, will almoft always ferve to diflin- guifh this fpecies of hydrocele from every variety of thefe diforders: To what was then faid, we muft here therefore refer It has on fome occafions, we are told, been confounded with the anafarcous tu- mor of the ferotum; but the means of diftinguifhing the two difeafes are fo evi- dently pointed out in the hillories we have given of their appearances, as to render it quite unnecefTary to enter farther into their conlideration. Indeed it muft be grofs in- attention only, which can ever render the anafarcous fpecies of hydrocele liable tq any degree of doubt. From the eneyfted hydrocele of the fper- made cord, it may commonly be ealily diftinguifhed, by the teflicle in the latter being plainly felt at the under part of the tumor; whereas in this difeafe, when the teflis is perceptible, it is always at the ' back-part of it: And in this fpecies of hydrocele, the fwelling begins in the un- der part of the ferotum, and proceeds up- wards ; * See p. 313.412 Of the Hydrocele, Chap. VI. wards: whereas in the encyfted hydrocele of the cord, it makes its ‘firft appearance above the epididymis, and by degrees falls down to the inferior parts of the fcrotum. By this (difference alone thefe two fpecies of hydrocele may be always diftinguifhed from one another. The circumflances which moft clearly diftinguifh this kind of tumor from a fcirrhous tefticle, are thefe: In the latter the fwelling is hard and firm; it does not yield in any degree to preffure; the furface of the tumor is rough and unequal; it is in general attended with a good deal of [ pain, and is always heavy in proportion to i its fize: Whereas in the hydrocele, the | fwelling commonly yields to preffure; its ! furface is fmooth ; little or no pain takes | place; and the tumor is light in propor- \ tion to its bulk. Thefe differences will always ferve as a | fufficient means of diftin(51;ion between this . fpecies of hydrocele and a pure unmixed farcocele. But when a fcirrhous tefticle is combined with an effufion of water into 1 the \SecH:. III. Of the Hydrocele. 413 the tunica vaginalis, formiijg what has very properly been termed a hydro-farcocele^ the means of diftindlion are not fo obvious. In the incipient date' of fuch efFufions, the difference between the two difeafes is fuffi- ciently apparent; but in the latter ftages of it, the moft attentive‘obferver commonly finds it difficult, and fometimes impoffible, to mark the diftincdion. In fuch doubtful cafes, however, by proceeding in the cau- tious manner to be afterwards pointed out, no detriment will occur to the patient from any uncertainty of this nature. From the hernia humoralis this fpecies of hydrocele is eafily diftinguiffied. In the for- mer, the tumor fucceeds either immediately to fome external bruife; or it is evidently the confequence of a gonorrhoea, or of fome other inflammatory affedion of the urethra ** The fkin is more or lefs affec- ted * The operation of lithotomy is frequently attended •with an inflammation of one, and fometimes of both, of the tefticles; probably from the inflammation in- duced by the operation in the neighbourhood of the caput gallinaginis, being communicated along the vas deferens to the tefles.414 the Hydrocele. Chap. VI. ted with an inflammatory rednefs; it is attended wflth a confiderable degree of pain^ efpecially on handling; and the fwelling is hard and firm; foof courfe no fludluation can be diftinguifhed in it, unlefs in its more advanced ftate, when fuppuration fometimes takes place, and when the ufual fymptoms of abfcefs, particularly the point- ing of the tumor, and its being much difco- loured, ferve to diflinguilh it fufiiciently. In forming a prognofis of this difeafe, we muft be directed almoft entirely by the habit of body of the patient. In general, w^e are to conflder it as a local affedlion; and in that ftate the moft favourable ex- pC(5tations may be formed of the event; for, whatever may have been alleged by fome writers as to the hazard of every o- peration for a radical cure of the diforder, in a Ample unmixed hydrocele, and in a found healthy conftitution, it may at any time be advifed with a very fair profpecfl; of fuccefs. In the radical cure of the hydrocele, in whatever way it is attempted, fome pain 2 willr Sc(5l. III. Of the Hydrocele. 41^ ■will be occafioned ; the parts will inflame, and of courfe fome degree of fever mufl; be expedled. In fome inftances, tliefe fymp- toms have gone rather farther than was juft neceflTary; but under the limitations I have already mentioned, of an unmixed ftate of the diforder in a conftitution o- therwife healthy, whenever the operation has been properly performed, I can fafely aver, that of a very confiderable number I have operated upon myfelf, as well as of many I have been connected with, I never knew one inftance of any thing bad occur- ring. But on the contrary, in conftitutions otherwife difeafed; in old people j and in infirm habits of body; we are by no means to expedl fuch certain fuccefs: Even in fuch circumftances, the operation very fre- quently fucceeds; but it muft be acknow- ledged that it now and then fails. The fymptomatic fever is apt to run too high for 'the ftrength of the patient; and the fuppuration produced by a high degree of inflammation tends afterwards to deftroy en-416 Of the Hydrocele. Chap.VL entirely the remains of a conftitution al- ready much impaired. This, however, ought not to be laid to the account of the operation, but to the real difeafed ftate of the patient. When, therefore, this diforder occurs in a healthy conftitution, I would conclude, from all the experience I have had in it, that little or no danger is to be dreaded from any neceflary operation: And on the contrary, in a difeafed ftate of body, that fome rifli is always incurred by every ope- ration that takes place; and the degree of rifk we may fuppofe will be always in pro- portion to the nature and extent of that dif- eafe with which the conftitution is affedled. As long as a fwelling of this nature keeps within moderate limits, patients in general rather fubmit to the inconvenience pro- duced by it, than undergo the pain of an operation; at leaft this is commonly the cafe among people of better rank, who can more readily put up with any diftrefs which it occaftons, than the poorer fet of patients, whofe daily labour is frequently impeded 2 byill. Of the Hydrocele^ 4*5^ by large- tumors in the fcrotunUi Amon^ thdfe of) the:formerf dafsy iiilianccs oceur of the diforder having , exifted for a great length of; time iwithout being produdlive of m.uch 'inconvenience: But even among thefe it commonly happens that they be- come,anxious (fatigued with uncertainty ^ and are at laft induced'to fubrait to the operation.^In all fuch inftances, when the conftitution.is' other wife found, this may be undertaken, as v/e have already remark'^ edi with an almod certain profpeft of fuc* cefs ; ^but when the fyftem is; materially difeafed, a patient had better fubmit to any inconvenience produced by the difbr- order, than undergo an operation for a ra- dical cure: And this may be the more m- lily agreed to from the relief which people with tumors of this kind always experience from tapping, which is termed the Pallia- tive Cure; and which, when it is properly done, if the conftitution is not greatly im-''* paired indeed, may be always fubmitted to without any dread of its proving hazardous. Various methods are propofed by au- VoL. I. D d thors418 ' Of the Hydrocele, Chap.VL thors for the treatment of this diforder. All of them, however, may be reduced to two general heads; viz. fuch as have in view only a temporary relief, and which, as we have juft now obferved, is termed the Palliative Cure; and fuch as are in- tended for effedling a Radical Cure, or a final removal of the diforder. Whatever advantages may be experien- ced, from the ufe of internal medicines, in dropfical affedlions of the conftitution, no pradlitioner, I believe, has fo much con- fidence in remedies of this kind, as to ex- pert much benefit from them in any par- tial hydropic collcdlions of the encyfted kind: We have daily proofs of their gene- ral failure in almoft every affecftion of this nature; and in no fpecies of ,dropfy do they prove more ineffedlual than in the hydrocele.—^We are told, indeed, of cures having been performed by different medi- cines, particularly by the ufe of ftrong dra- ftic purgatives: I have known them em- ployed, but never with advantage; and when puihed to any extent, they are fure toSedl. III. Of the Hydrocele. 419 to hurt the conftitution.—As it is always neceflary however to confine the patient to bed for Ibme time after any operation that takes place, in order to prevent his being afterwards difturbed, it is proper to empty his bowels by a laxative immediately be- fore the operation; but this is almoft the only medicine that can be requifite. Inter- nal medicines, therefore, being found inef- fedlual, as well as external applications, we are to feek for that relief from Surgery which experience fliows it is capable of af- fording. When the tumour in the fcrotum has ac- quired fuch a fize as to become inconve- nient, if the patient either refufes to fub- mit to the operation for the radical cure, or if his ftate of health renders that opera- tion improper, in fuch circumftances, the palliative treatment, or a mere evacuation of the water by pundure, is the only means we can employ. There arc two methods propofed for drawing off the water in this manner, viz. by the pundlure of a lancet, or with a trocar. '—It is alleged by fome, that by the mere D d 2 punc-42,0 Of the Hydrocele, Chap. VL pundlure of a lancet the water can neither be fo completely or fo properly drawn off as when the trocar is employed; for the orifice in the fliin being apt to recede from the opening in the vaginal coat, the water is thereby either ftopt altogether, or is apt to infinuate itfelf into the furrounding parts. By others again it is faid, that the difficulty of introducing the trocar is fuch as to ren- der it hazardous from the contiguity of the tefticle; and inftances are not wanting to ffiow, that even in the hands of expert fur- geons the teftis has been very materially injured by a trocar reaching it in this ope- ration. Indeed, the ordinary form of this inflrument, which is triangular, renders its introdudlion both difficult and unfafe; but the trocar of a flat form which I propofed fome years ago, enters with as much eafe as a lancet.—In Plate X. different inflruments of this kind are reprefented, of a proper fize for this operation.—And as with a tro- car of this kind an opening may be made into the tunica vaginalis with perfect fafe- ty,’ and the water with this inflrument be- ingmale X,421 Se(5l. III. Of the Hydrocele, Ing much more freely evacuated than by a mere pundlure with a lancet, which is ape to produce an effufion into the cellular fubftance of the ferotum, the mode of ef- fedling it by the lancet ought therefore to be laid afide. The inftrument being fixed upon, the next point of importance is the part of the tumor moft proper for the operation. E- ven in this fimple operation, an acquaint- ance with the anatomy of the parts will appear to be very neceflary. We have al- ready fliown, that the teftis does not hang altogether loofe in the vaginal coat; but on the contrary, that its pofterior part is firmly connefled to the body of the tefti- clc; fo of confequence at this part there is no water to be met with between the fero- tum and teftis ; and accordingly it would be highly improper to attempt an opening at this place« For if through ignorance the trocar fhould be inferred here, one in- Ilance of which I have feen, the inftru- raent would for certain pierce the body of the tefticle, and would nor, after all, eva- cuate the water. D d 3 The422 Of the Hydrocele, Chap. VL The moft proper part for introducing the inftrument is the moft anterior point of the under part of the tumor. The pa- tient being feated on a chair, with the tu- mor hanging over the edge of it, the ope- rator with his left-hand fhould grafp the tumor on its back-part, fo as to pufti the contained fluid as much as poflible into the anterior and under part of the fwell- ing. Having done fo, he then makes an opening through the fldn and cellular fubftance, of about half an inch in length, with the ftioulder of a common lancet, on that point where the trocar is to enter. This gives very little pain to the patient j it is done in the fpace of a fecond or two, and it enfures an eafy paflage to the point of the inftrument; a circumftance which divefts this operation of all kind of ha- zard. The operator now takes the trocar in his right-hand, and having fixed the head of the inftrument in the palm of the hand, he places the fore-finger along the courfe of itj leaving juft as much of the point of theSed. III. Of the Hydrocele^ 423 the inftrument uncovered as he thinks ought to penetrate the tunica vaginalis; and this being introduced in a gradual eafy manner, the ftilette is to be with- drawn immediately on the end of the ca- nula having entered the cyft. The water will now run off; and if the tumor be not of a great fize, it may be all evacuated at once: but when the fwelling is large, as the fudden difcharge of the fluid, by ta- king away too quickly the fiipport which it afforded to the veflTels of the teftes and vaginal coat, might endanger the rupture of fome of them, it is better every now and then to flop the flow of it for a few feconds ; and when the whole is thus eva- cuated, and the canula withdrawn, a piece of adhefive plafter fliould be immediately applied to the orifice, and a comprefs of foft linen being laid over the fcrotum, the whole Ihould be firmly fupported by a proper application of the T-bandage D d 4 The * Some very judicious remarks on the importance of a due degree of compreffion in fuch cafes may be met with in Dr Monro’s obfervations on this fubje£fj hc6 citato*4^4 Of the Byardc 'els, Cliap.Vf, The patieiit being in this ftate laid in bed', it commonly happefts^ that in a fevr hours all manner of uneafinefs is gone, and he goes about his ordinary bulinefs without farther interruption: Now and tlren, however, the fore produced by the trocar fefter^^ and the inflammation thus produced, in' fome inftances, has been known to terminate in a radical cure of the diforder. Such occurrences, however, are rare, and are by no means to be de- pended on., This operation, when done with atten- tion, is eafily performed, and is feldom pro- ductive of any mifchief; but when not per- formed with caution, and.efpecially when the patient is allowed to go about imme- diately after the water is evacuated, it fometimes terminates in very troublefome fymptoms. Even when done with every poiTible attention, if the patient’s habit of body is bad, it fometimes goes wrong. Of this every praClitioner may have feen fome inflances more or lefs remarkable: And two cafes are related by Mr Pottj one ofSec^l. III. Of the Hydrocele, 425 of which terminated fatally ; and in the other a mortification enfued, which in the fpace of a few days deftroyed not only a good deal of the fcromm, but even a confi- derable portion of the tunica vaginalis*.. Both of thefe indeed occurred in very un- healthy conftitutions ; but it is proper to have it known, that this operation may ia fuch habits of body be produdlive of thefe confequences. In found healthy people, it feldom or never ends in any thing bad; but the event of thefe cafes of Mr Pott and others, ought to convince us that it fhould not be attempted where the fyfiem is evi- dently much difeafed. Drawing the water off in this manner in order to relieve the patient from the bulk it produced, was the firft idea that ocur- red to pradlitioners in the treatment of the hydrocele; but this being found inefFec- tual for the complete removal of the dif- eafe, various other methods were afterwards introduced. The adlual cautery and the ligature were both propofed as means of pre- ^ Cafes xxi. and xxil. Treatife on the Hydrocele.426 Of the Hydrocele, Chap. VI. preventing farther defcents of water from the abdomen, which in former times was confidered as the origin of this diforder. Celfus orders the cyft of a hydrocele to be cut away, and many of his followers do the fame. Tents, both folid and hollow, were afterwards employed; as was likewife the ufe of the feton, which we find recom- mended by Fabricius ab Aquapendente, and other writers even of a more early period. The ufe of various applications of the cauftic kind has at different times been in vogue; Inje6fing wine, diluted ardent fpirits, and other irritating liquids, into an opening in the vaginal coat, has been pro- pofed as a means of inducing a degree of inflammation fufficient for effedling a ra-- dical cure; and a Ample incifion of the cyft containing the water, has been prac-> tifed for the fame purpofe. Thefe, I think, comprehend all the va-' riety of means which at different periods have been employed for the cure of the hydrocele. Ancient practitioners feem to have been acquainted with all of them; bnt427 Se<5l. III. Of the Hydrocele, but having very inaccurate ideas of the anatomy of the parts concerned, they could not have any fixed or clear opinion of the manner in which any of their re- medies operated in effedling a cure. In confequence of this they were applied very much at random; and no method proving at all times fuccefsful, the ignorance they laboured under in the theory of the dis- order rendered changes of remedies very frequent in the treatment of it. One material advantage obtained by the moderns in this point is, that by knowing the water to be contained in a particular cyft with which no part of the body com- municates, they are thereby left at liberty to apply their remedies without any dread of injuring parts which were formerly fup- pofed to be connedled with the tefticle ; and by finding that the water colledled in this difeafe, is in many refpedls in a fimi- lar fituation to the contents of other tu- mors, with the means of curing which they are well acquainted, they have ven- tured from analogy to transfer the method of428 Of the Hydrocele, Chap. VI. of treatment found to fucceed in thefe dif- orders, to this fpecies of the hydrocele. Matter colledled in a particular cavity or cyft, we fuppofe to be in circumftances very fimilar to water collected in the tuni- ca vaginalis teftis. In both fituations, the contents of the tumor are fecluded from accefs to the external air ; and neither of them have any communication with any other part of the body. And although the bag containing the matter of an encyfted tumor is in fome meafure a new forma- tion, yet in many inftances it is found to be equally firm and elaftic with the tunica vaginalis teftis. In the treatment of encyfted tumors, praditioners are now agreed, that, befides evacuating the matter, means muft be em- ployed for deftroying the cavity which con- tained it, otherwife a return of the difor- der may in general be expeded. To ac- complifh this, different methods have been propofed; fome with a view to deftroy en- tirely the cyft which contained the mat- ] ter; and others, as it is faid, to fill up the cavitySecH:. III. Of the Hydrocele, 429 I cavity of the cyft with a formation of new ^ parts. i But we now know, that unlefs the coats I of a cyfl are much extended, and greatly I thickened indeed, that there is no reafon whatever for removing any part of it. It n is alfo known, that to fill up the cavities of ‘ tumors with a creation of new parts, is a I mere imaginary matter, being what neither art or nature ever effedls to any extent: And we likewife know, that the cavity of almoft every tumor may be more effe(5lual- ly deftroyed by producing an adhefion of its fides than by any other means. Parts of the human body in a flate of inflammation very readily adhere to one another. Indeed fo eafily do they do fo, I that fome art is required to prevent the adhefion of contiguous inflamed parts. By attempting the cure of abfcefles and of en- cyfted tumors, on principles analogous to this, the fame phenomena were found to happen ; for, after difcharging their con- tents, it has been found, that cures are commonly obtained with more eafe and cer-43° JiydroceU, Chap. VI* certainty by inducing a fufficient degree of inflammation on their internal furfaces, than by any other means. And in like manner it is now known, that the hydro- cele of the tunica vaginalis, may be treated upon the fame principles, and with the fame general effedls. This is the niofl; Ample idea that can be given, of the prefent views of practitioners in the treatment of this diforder; and I hope it will ferve to render their ideas re- Ipedling it fufliciently clear. The intention, then, of every means now in ufe for the radical cure of this fpecies of the hydrocele, is, to induce fuch a degree of inflammation on the parts, as may tend to obliterate entirely the cavity of the tu- nica vaginalis, by making it adhere firm- ly to the tunica albuginea or furface of the tefticle. Some individuals, indeed, ftill proceed upon the fuppofition of a total deftruCtioii of the fac being neceflary for a complete cure. But the extenfive experience of many of the beft employed furgeons makes I itSedl. III. Of the Hydrocele, 431 it appear very clear that this is never ne- > ceflary. When the fac has become very thick, and has been diftended to fuch a degree as entirely to have loft its tone, re- ^ moving a fmall part of it fometimes proves ufeful, by allowing the fcrotum to con- tract more readily; but in no other point of view is it in any degree requifite. I We know well, that in this, as in every ^ fpecies of encyfted tumor, a cure may be, and frequently is, obtained, by removing { ' the fac entirely; for, the contiguous parts % from whence the facs have been diflecfled, adhere very readily together, fo as to de- ftroy effectually the cavities in which the matter was contained But we alfo know that this is never neceflary, as the fame end may be always obtained by much more gentle means. We fliall now proceed to the particular 1 eonfideration of the feveral means at pre- fent * Mr Elfe aflerts, that in the method he recommends of curing this fpecies of Hydrocele by cauftic, the tu- nica vaginalis Houghs entirely olF.Of the Hydrocele. Ghap.VL 432 fent employed by different pradlitioners for effeding a cure, and fliall treat with moft minutenefs thofe which are now in moft general ufe. Thefe are, excifion of the tunica vaginalis ; the apphcation of cauftic ; the ufe of a feton ; and a fimple incifion of the fac. By Mr Douglas it is recommended ^ to deftroy the vaginal coat entirely; and his method of doing it, is, firft to diffedl out an oval piece of the fcrotum, which’ he confiders as always neceffary; and having then laid the vaginal coat open, to cut it away by different fnips of a pair of fciffars. But if there is any praditioner who ftill continues to prefer this excifion of the fac» he will find that it may be more eafily diffeded away by the fcalpel than with fciffars, and it is rarely neceffary to remove any portion of the fcrotum. The method of cure with cauftic is com- monly defired to be conduded in the fol- lowing manner: The fcrotum being fhaved, a piece of common pafte-cauftiq properly fecured * Loco citato.Sedt. III. Of the Hydrocele. 433 fecured with adhefive plafter is to be ap- plied) of about the breadth of a finger, ' the whole length of the tumor; and if, on removing the cauflic, it has not pene- trated the tunica vaginalis, this is ordered to be done with a fcalpel, fo as to evacuate the contents, lay bare the tefticle, and ad- mit of proper dreflings But Mr Elfe, one of the latefl; writers in , favours of the method by cauftic, fays, that there is no neceflity for fuch an ex- tenfive application of cauftic as has been recommended by authors : That an efchar of the fize of a ftiilling, anfwers the pur- pofe fufficiently: That this^may be always fully obtained by the application of cauftic pafte of the fize of a fixpence; which he direcfts to be laid upon the anterior and under point of the fcrotum, and to be pro- perly fecured by adhefive plafter in order to prevent it from fpreading j*. VoL. I. E e The * Douglas on the Hydrocele, p. 3. Pott, he. cit. p.155. f Vid. An Eflay on the Cure of the Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis teftis, 2d edition, p-33-Of the Hydrocele, Chap. VI. 434 The cauflic commonly produces all its elFedls in the fpace of five or fix hours, and may then be removed. At this time digeflives, or an emollient poultice, muft be applied over the fcrotum; and the whole properly fufpended with a bandage. Inflammation, we are told, is foon in- duced over the whole tunica vaginalis ; and the febrile fymptoms which fucceed, are directed to be kept moderate by blood- letting, injecflions, &c. In a few days the efchar of the fcrotum feparates and comes away; and in a gradual manner, in the courfe of four, five, or fix weeks, the whole tunica vaginalis comes off, when the wound immediately cicatrifes, and a complete cure is obtained. When the feton is to be ufed, the fol- lowing is the method of applying it, as is recommended by Mr Pott, who has wrote a very ingenious treatife on this fubjedl: He ufes a trocar; a filver canula, five in- ches in length, and of fuch a diameter as to pafs eafily thro’ the canula of the trocar j and a probe, fix inches and a half long, havingSecfl. III. Of the Hydrocele^ 4 j j having at one end a fine fteel trocar point, and at the other an eye which carries a cord of coarfe white fewing-filk, of fuch a thicknefs as will pafs eafily through the long canula. With the trocar, the infe- rior and anterior point of the tumor is to be pierced; and as foon as the perforator is withdrawn, and the water difeharged, the feton canula is pafl'ed through that of the trocar, till it reaches the upper part of the tunica vaginalis, and can be felt in the very fuperior part of the ferotum. This being done, the probe armed with its feton is to be conveyed through the latter ca- nula, the vaginal coat and teguments to be pierced by its point, and the feton to be drawn through the canula till a fufficient quantity is brought out at the upper ori- fice, when both the canula’s are to be with- drawn, and the operation is finifhed. About the end of the third day, the parts begin to inflame; when fomentations, poul- tices, a fufpenfory bandage, a temperate regimen, and a lax belly, are ordered, to keep the fymptoms moderate: As foon as ' E e 2 the43^ QT the Hydrocele. Chap. VI. the parts become eafy by the inflammation leflening, which is generally about the tenth or twelfth day, the feton is begun to be diminifhed, when fix or eight threads are withdrawn at every dreffing; thedref- fings confiding of nothing more than a fuperficial pledgit upon each orifice, and a difcutient cerate, fuch as the ceratum faturninum, to cover the fcrotum. In ufing the feton, I fliould wifli to fol- low the method here defcribed, in every other point except in the mode of intro- ducing it; an eafier method of doing it being now difcovered. In a former pub- lication, I have defcribed the manner of opening abfceflfes by a feton; and the di- redlions then given, prove equally appli- cable here. Let an opening be made, ei- ther with a fcalpel or a lancet, in the fupe- rior part of the tumor, large enough to ad- mit with eafe a cord of white fewing filk of a proper fize. The curved diredlor with an eye at one end*, in which the cord is in- ferted, is to be introduced at this opening; and * Delineated in the Treatife on the Theory and Management of Ulcers, &c.437 Sedl. III. Of the Hydrocele, and its farther extremity being carried down to the moft depending part of the tumor, an opening is there to be made of about half an inch or fo in length, by cut- ting upon the end of the diredlor with a fcalpel. The diredlor being now drawn down till a fufficient quantity of filk is left hanging out below, the operation is then finiflied. In every other refpedl the ma- nagement of the feton ought to be the fame with the method we have defcribed from Mr Pott. By making the firft opening in the fupe- rior part of the tumor, the inftrument con- ducting the feton is more eafily introduced to the farther extremity of the fwelling, than when the firft opening is made below; for in this cafe, the tumor remains dif- tended to the laft; Whereas, when opened below, the water rufhes out immediately; and the vaginal coat collapfes fo much about the tefticle, that I have feen a good deal of difficulty in getting the inftrument infinuated between them, by which I have been fenfible of the teftis being confider- ably injured. E e 3 BeforeOf the Hydrocele. Chap. VI. 438 Before entering farther into the confi- deration of this method of cure by the fe- ton, we {hall proceed to defcribe the ope- ration for a radical cure by incifion. The patient being placed upon a table of a convenient height, and being properly fecured by two afliftants, with the fcrotum lying nearly upon the edge of the table, the operator with one hand fhould grafp the tumor fo as to hold it firm and make it fomewhat tenfe on its anterior part; and with a common round-edged fcalpel in the other, he fhould now divide the external teguments by one continued incifion from the fuperior extremity of the tumor all along its anterior furface down to the moft depending point of the fwelling. By this means, as the divided fcrotum retra(fls a little, the tunica vaginalis is laid perfecftly bare, for the breadth of about half an inch from one extremity to the other. An opening is now to be made with a lan- cet into the vaginal coat, juft at its upper extremity where the firft incifion com- menced. This opening flrould be of fuch439 Se6l.ni. Of the Hydrocele. afize as to receive the finger of the operator; which being inferted, the probe-pointed biftoury is to be condudled upon it, and by- means of it the fac is to be divided to the very bottom, all along the courfe of the firft incifion. By the previous divifion of the fliin with the fcalpel inftead of the bi- ftoury, the operation is done with much more accuracy, and with lefs pain; for the fcalpel from its convexity admits of a much finer edge than an inftrument of any other form is capable of receiving, and hence it cuts with more eafe. By making the firft opening in the up- per end of the fac, much trouble and in- convenience is prevented, which, making the firft orifice below, is fure to occafion : For, as we have before remarked, when the tumor is firft opened below, the wa- ter is inftantly evacuated; and as this produces an immediate collapfe of the tu- nica vaginalis, the palTage through it is not afterwards eafily difcovered. Where- as, by making the firft opening above, as the water is thereby evacuated gradually E e 4 as44^ Of the Hydrocele, ‘ Chap. VI. as the incifion is extended downwards, the vaginal coat continues diftended to the bottom till the incilion is completely finiflied. We have not thought it necelTary to fay any thing here of the probe-pointed fcif- fars, an inftrument which fome time ago was very generally employed in this ope- ration : For wherever the knife can with propriety be ufed, no furgeon of thefe times will hefitate in preferring it. We have direeled the incifion into the vaginal coat to be carried from one extre- mity of the tumor to the other. Many furgeons, with a view to fave fome pain to the patient, advife the incifion both of the fcrotum and tunica vaginalis to be on- ly two-thirds of the length of the tumor. But'the difference of pain thus produced is very little; being indeed nothing when compared with the uncertainty of a radi- cal cure not being obtained by it. When the incifion is carried the whole length of the tumor, it is rarely found to fail; and I have known fundry infiances of thefe partialSed.III, Of the Hydrocele, 441 partial openings being followed with a re- turn of the difeale The incifion being completed in the manner we have dire<5led, the tefticle co- vered with its tunica albuginea comes into view. Sometimes the teftis protrudes from the wound altogether; in which cafe it ftiould be replaced with great caution, and ought by all means to be covered as quick- ly as poffible from the external air; and provided none of the tunica vaginalis is to be removed, this may be always done im- mediately by finifliing the dreffing dired- ly on the fac being opened. When the fac is not much thickened, there is no neceffity for removing any part of it; but when it is difcovered to be Gtherwife; to be thick and very hard; the removal of a portion of it on each fide of the incifion, makes the cure of the remain- ing fore more eafy and expeditious. As in this hardened ftate, the fac generally feparates with great eafe from the fur- rounding * Mr Pott is clearly of this opinion, hoc. cit. p.163.Of the Hydrocele, Chap. VI, 442 rounding teguments, any quantity of it may be eafily taken away with the fcalpel without the leaft hazard of wounding the fcrotum. Some writers indeed advife part of the fcrotum itfelf to be cut away on every occafion ; but even in the moft en- larged cafe of hydrocele I ever met with, no neceflity ever appeared for removing any part of it. On examining the tefticle after the di- vifion of the vaginal coat, it is generally found to be of a foft texture, and of a more pale complexion than in a healthy Hate: On fome occafions it is confider- ably enlarged ; and on others, 1 have feen it reduced to a very frnall fize, confiding of the tunica albuginea almoft quite emp- ty. As the cure of the fore however ad- vances, the tefticle in a gradual manner commonly regains its ufual bulk ; of this 1 have feen different inftances, and a very remarkable cafe of the fame kind is re- corded by Douglas f. ‘ We * Vide Douglas on the Hydrocele, p. 136. I -iee. fiV. p. 194, Cafe II.443 Se6l. III. Of the Hydrocele. We have hitherto fuppofed that the dif- order is confined to one fide of the fcro- tum; but novsr and then, as we have elfe- where remarked, a double hydrocele is met with. The ordinary practice in fuch a cafe, is, to do the operation twice in all its parts, both in the fcrotum and tunica va- . ginalis ; to lay each colle<5lion open from top to bottom, by a double incifion. Some- times both operations are done at the fame time ; but in general praclitioners are afraid of too much inflammation being thus induced, fo that one is commonly al- lowed to heal before the other is attempted. In this manner the patient is expofed to delay, uncertainty, and to the hazard of two complete operations. It may be done, however, in a much ea- fier manner, with much lefs pain, and in lefs time, than in the ordinary method. After finifhing the operation on one fide, by making an opening into the vaginal coat of the oppofite tefticle at its upper extremity through the feptum fcroti^ and continuing the incifion down to the bot^ ^gm of the tumor, the cyfl; is thus equally wellOf the Hydrocele. Chap. VI. 444 well laid open, the water is as completely evacuated, and the patient is liable to as little hazard of a return of the diforder, as if the operation had been done in the ufual manner. From the account we gave of the ana- tomy of the fcrotum, no danger, it is evi- dent, can occur from any divifion of the feptum, which we have Ihown to be en- tirely compofed of cellular fubftance; and in fa(fl I have twice had an opportunity of performing this operation in the manner here directed upon a double hydrocele, and in both inflances with moft complete fuccefs. Whether the hydrocele be double or confined to one tefticle, as foon as the wa- ter is all evacuated, and any part of the vaginal coat removed that may be necef- fary, the wound ought then to be drefled; and on this, it may be obferved, much of the fuccefs to be expedled from the opera- tion depends. If the vaginal coat be juft wrapped a- bout the tefticle without the interpofition of445 Se<5l. III. Of the Hydrocele, of any kind of dreffing, partial adhefions are apt to occur, before a degree of in- flammation is produced fuflicient for ren- dering the cure complete. By this means cavities are left, which either fill with pus during the progrefs of the cure, or after- wards afford an opportunity for colledlions of water, and thus occafion a return of the diforder; different inftances of which I have met with. And again, a defire for flufiing the cavity of the fore too much with dreffings has alfo been a frequent caufe of mifchief. By their rubbing or prefling too much upon the furface of the tunica albuginea, a part which nature never intended to be much expo fed, fuch a degree of inflammation is fometimes induced as to be produ(5live of much pain, inflammation, and fever: But it is commonly the fault of the operator when this is the cafe; for in a found heal- thy conftitution, it feldom happens that either of the occurrences we have men- tioned take place when the dreffings are properly managed. TheOf the Hydrocele. Chap. VI. 446 The method I have uniformly found to fucceed, is this: The tefticle, if it has pufhed forwards, as it fometimes does, out of the fcrotum entirely, being cautioufly replaced, a piece of foft lint ftiould be in- ferred between it and the divided vaginal coat, firft on one fide of the divided fac, and then on the other, reaching from the fuperior part of the tumor to the moft de- pending point of it. One end of each piece of lint ought to be left out of the fore, to fold over the edges of the wound; and the other ought to be gently pufhed in between the teftis and the vaginal coat> about half-way between the external inci- fion and the bottom of the fac : If lefs is inferred, it does not with certainty anfwer the purpofe ; and I have commonly found that a fingle ply of fine lint may be intro- duced this length without any difficulty, and experience fhows it to be fufficient. A comprefs of foft linen being now applied over the tumour, the whole fhould be pro- perly fufpended w ith a bandage; and for this purpofe, either the T-bandage, or the com- 2 monSedl. III. Of the Hydrocele, AM mon fufpenfory bag, may be employed. The patient is now to be carried to bed; an anodyne fhould be prefcribed ; and he ought to be enjoined to remain as much in the fame pofture as polTible, for much motion in this ftate of the fore certainly does mifchief. The intention of this operation being to induce a moderate degree of inflammation in the parts chiefly affedled, viz. the tuni- ca vaginalis and tunica albuginea, if the pain, inflammation, and fwelling, which in fome degree always fucceed to the ope- ration, do not run to a great height, no- thing is CO be done for the firfl; two or three days after the operation: But, when thefe fymptoms become violent, and efpecially when any confiderable degree of fever is induced, it muft then be the bufinefs of art to prevent their going too far. The remedies to be ufed for this purpofe, are, blood-letting, according to the flrength of the patient; gentle laxatives, fo as to pre- ferve an eafy ftate of the bowels; a low cooling diet; and warm emollient poul- ticesOf the HydroceleChap. VI. 448 tices and fomentations to the part, in order to forward a plentiful fuppuration, which commonly tends to moderate every bad fymptom more effedlually than any other remedy. By thefe means the inflammation may in almoft every inftance be kept within proper bounds: From all the experience, indeed, which I have had in this diforder, I might fay that it may be done in every inftance; for I never yet faw any thing to the contrary, where the operation was pro- perly performed, in a found healthy con- ftitution. When, again, the pain, inflammation, and tumefadlion of the parts, do not come to a great height, the cataplafms and fo- mentations need never be employed before the fourth day: About this time, by fo- menting the parts, and applying a large emollient poultice over the whole, the ex- ternal drefllngs are commonly eafily re- moved about the fifth or fixth day. Ac this time, on taking them away, the edges of the fore^ are obferved to be hard, and confiderably fwelled; and the matter dif- I charged449 Sedl. Ill, Of the Hydrocele, charged is thin and difcoloured: If the lint inferted between the teftis and the va- ginal coat can be eafily taken out, it may at this time be removed; but in general, it does not come away with freedom till the third or fourth dreffing, when the fwelliiig of the parts is fomewhat dimi- nifhed. The fore ought to be drefled once every day or two, according to the quan- tity of matter produced ; and the poul- tices fliould be continued till a plentiful fuppuration is eftablilhed. In twelve or fourteen days from the operation, the fuppuration is in general very freely formed; and the fwelling of the parts is now fo much reduced as to give the whole a fine healing appearance : The only dreffing neceffary in this ftate of the fore, is a little foft lint, covered with a pledgit of any emollient ointment. The fwelling of the fcrotum now gradually fubfides; and the fore continuing to leffen daily, a complete cure is commonly obtain- ed in the fpace of four, five, or fix weeks, according to the fize of the wound and other circumfiances. ■ VoL, L F f Ha-45o Of the Hydrocele. Chap. VI. Having thus given an. account of the manner of performing every operation at prefent in ufe for the radical cure of the hydrocele, we fhall now make a few ob- , fervations on the comparative advantages of the three laft, viz. the cauftic, feton, and the limple incifion j thefe being almofl the only means now pra<51ifed for the removal of this diforder. From the teftimony of many refpedlable authors concerning the efficacy of each of thefe, there is no rea- fon to doubt, but that colledlions of this kind may in general be cured by any of them. That the cauftic, when properly managed, will feldom fail of producing a cure, we have every reafon to believe; and the fame may be fafely alferted both of the feton and the fimple incifion. But, it commonly happens, that a pradlitioner, from being prejudiced in favours of a par- ticular method, continues to pra<5tife that mode and no other; and, finding it in ge- neral fucceed, he by degrees comes to per- fuade hiinfelf, that other methods of cure with which he has not had fuch opportu- nitiesSc(5l. III. Of the Hydrocele, 451 nities of becoming acquainted, are liable to objedlions, which thofe who have prac- tifed them do not find to be the cafe. I attended the hofpitals in London about the time that Mr Pott’s publication on the Seton, and Mr Life’s Treatife on the Cure of the Hydrocele by Cauftic, were pub- liflied; when of courfe the various means of curing the diforder were frequently the fubjecfl of medical converfation. I was thereby induced to pay particular atten- tion to the fubjedl; and having the ad- vantage of feeing the pradice of different hofpitals, and not being particularly biaf- fed in favours of any one method, I was thus furnifhed with an excellent opportu- nity of forming an opinion: And the refult of all the obfervation 1 was cither at that time able to make, or fince that period, both in the hofpital here, and in private pradice, is. That although all the three modes of operating, by cauftic, the feton, and fimple incifion, are perhaps equally ca- pable of producing a radical cure; yet that, of the three, the latter, viz. the fimple in- F f 2 cifion,Of the Hydrocele, Chap. VI, 452 cifion, is liable to fewer objections, and ef- fects a cure both with lefs trouble to the operator, and with lefs rifk to the patient; and of the other two, the treatment by cau- Itic appears to me to be the moft eligible. I have feen all the three methods produce troublefome fymptoms, fuch as great pain and tenfion of the abdomen, inflammation, and fever; but from much obfervation, I can without hefitation fay, that the fe- ton is more frequently productive of thefe confequences than either of the others: And we need not wonder at this being the cafe; for the cord which is here introdu- ced, lying in clcfe contaCl with the body of the teftis, muft neceffarily occafion a confiderable and continued irritation, as long as it remains applied to it. The feton is likewife attended with other inconveniences, to which neither of the others, when properly managed, are liable. When the inflammation which fucceeds to the introduClion of the cord, runs very high, as it frequently does, it commonly terminates in fuch a plentiful fuppuration, that the matter produced by it cannot beSe(5l. III. Of the Hydrocele^ 453 readily difcharged at the openings made for the feton: In confeqnence of this, it infi- nuates itfelf into the neighbouring parts; and different abfceffes are accordingly formed, which muft all be difcharged by as many openings. Even when the opera- tion has been done with much nicety and attention, 1 have feen it terminate in this manner. Another objedlion to this operation, which I think of importance, is this: It does not admit of a free examination, ei- ther of the ftate of the teflicle, or of the fluid contained in the fac. I know, that in a fimple uncomplicated hydrocele, there is no reafon whatever for examining the teflicle; nor would we think of removing it, either on account of a mere enlargement or diminution of its fize, provided it be not otherwife difeafcd. But we know well, that cafes do fometimes occur, which elude the utmofl fkill and penetration of the fur- geon ; no diagnoflic fymptoms with which we are yet acquainted being fufficient to direct us with abfolute certainty. The moft experienced praditioner mull F f 3 be454 Hydrocele* Chap. VI. be fenfible, that at times he has been mif-’ taken in his opinion refpedling the nature offuchtumors; arealfarcocele,orfcirrhous tefticle, attended with fome efFufion of a fluid, being now^ and then miftaken for a pure unmixed hydrocele ; and, vice verfa^ a fimple uncomplicated cafe of hydrocele has been frequently miftaken for, and treated as, a fcirrhous tefticle. Such oc- currences every pracftitioner muft have met with : And among other writers who confefs their having been deceived in fuch cafes, a very candid acknowledgment of this kind is made by Mr Fott and Mr Elfe takes notice of a fimilar occurrence in which he was concerned f. I * Treatife on the Hydrocele, p. 288. In this cafe, which from every circumftance had been, confidered as a Sarcocele, the teftis, after being removed, was found to be perfeAly found; the difeafe being a real Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. There being even a pojfibility only of fuch an oc- currence with fuch an attentive obferver as Mr Pott, ought to ferve as a moft convincing argument with praaitioners in general, of the neceffity of proceeding with the utmoft caution in all fuch cafes where there is the lead caufe for doubt. ■t Loc, cit. p. a.455 Sc(5t. III. Of the Hydrocele, I have myfelf been concerned in differ- ent cafes, where the moft experienced fur- geons were at a lofs to determine the real nature of the diforder; that is, whether the fwelling in the fcrotum was a fimple hy- drocele of the vaginal coat, or an effufion of a fluid into that bag produced by a fcirrhous tefticle. In all fuch cafes where any doubt occurs, the furgeon ought to proceeed as if the tumor was a real hydro- cele. If, on laying open the fwelling, the tefticle fhould be found difeafed, that is, if it ftiould be in fuch a ft ate as to require extirpation, it ought to be removed imme- diately ; and on the contrary, if it lliould appear to be perfectly found, the cafe fhould undoubtedly be treated altogether as a Ample hydrocele. In feveral inftances of this kind, where, by different pradlitioners, a mere col- lection of water was expected without any other affection, the tefticle has been, found to be fo much difeafed with a real farcocele, as to render extirpation highly proper. Now, if in fuch circumftances F f 4 a45^ Of the Hydrocele, Chap. VI. a cure had been attempted by the feton, the tefticle would have been allowed to remain expofed to the irritation produced by the cord, which in all probability would have induced very troublefome and even alarming fymptoms; for we know that every fymptom of a feirrhous or can- cerous tumor is uniformly rendered worfe by irritation. It has been alleged, that the real ftate of the teftis may be always known, by draw- ing the water off from the tunica vaginalis by a trocar; and this has accordingly been recommended as a previous ftep to the in-r trodudlion of the feton, with a view to afeertain the ficuation of the tefticle. But it often happens, even after all the water is drawn off, that the thicknefs produced by the vaginal coat and ferotum, collapfing in large folds about the teftis, precludes ef- fetftually every accurate examination of thia kind. We obferved above too, that when the feton is ufed, the contents of the vaginal coat cannot be properly afeertained. It fre-Seel. III. Of the Hydrocele. 457 frequently happens, that the water of a hydrocele is contained in a number or hy- datids ; a circumftance which cannot be difeovered previous to the opening of the tumor: And as it will be readily admit- ted that the method of cure by feton is ill fuited for evacuating hydatids, this of it- felf is a very material objedlion to the prac-^ tice. So that, upon the whole, although the feton in every other refpedl fliould be equally eligible with the fimple incihon, which for the reafons formerly given I think it is not, yet the two laft objedions we have adduced againfl it are fufficient reafons for fetting it entirely afide. With refped to the mode of treatment by cauftic, I have only to obferve, in addi- tion to what was already faid upon this fubjed, that where patients are naturally timid, and do not incline to fubmit to the operation by the knife, this will in general be preferable. But the treatment by cauftic is liable to one very material objedion, which never attends the cure by incifion, viz. that of being produdive of iinufes and collec- tionsOf the Hydrocele, Chap. VI. 458 tions of matter, in the fcrotum and cellu- lar fubftance connedling that bag to the tunica vaginalis. One inftance of this I have feen, where it was neceffary to eva- cuate different collecftions of matter bv different openings ; and a remarkable cafe of the fame kind is related by Douglas, where an extenffve incifion was neceffary for removing the colledlions which occur- red For this reafon, therefore, and as the mode by incifion brings the flate of the tefticle more evidently into view; and efpecially as, from all the experience I have had of the two different methods of cure that by incifion feems in general to be produdlive of the leaft troublefome fymptoms, I am clear that it ought to be preferred. In different publications, we read of many dreadful fymptoms induced by this operation for the hydrocele; but the fame obje<ff:ions have been adduced againft every mode of operating hitherto propofed, and the fame will flill be continued by fuch as judge toe. cit. p. 10^.Se<5l. III. Of the Hydrocele, 459 judge from partial information. In old, infirm, or difeafed conflitutions, this and every other mode of operating will on fome occafions be produ(5live of trouble- fome and perhaps fatal confequences : On the contrary, all the three methods of cure of which we have been treating, viz. thofe by cauftic, the feton, and fimple incifion, will in general be found to anfwer the purpofe very effedlually, of producing a radical cure of the diforder. What I have been here endeavouring to Ihow, and what the importance of the fubjedl makes me again repeat, is, that this end will com- monly be obtained with more eafe both to the operator and patient by the fimple in- cifion than by any other means. In a matter of this kind no perfon ought to form an opinion haftily. Nothing but a variety of opportunities of putting the different operations in pra(5tice, can enable any pradlitioner to judge with propriety of the merits of each. In the writings of |:he late celebrated Mr Sharpe, we have a very remarkable inftance of this. In his treatife460 Of the Hydrocele, Chap. VI. treatife on the Operations of Surgery he fpeaks of the treatment of the hydrocele by inciiion as a very dangerous operation, and thinks that it will probably be dif- carded altogether. At that time, it is evident, Mr Sharpe’s experience in this diforder had not been fufEcient for warranting fuch a decifive opinion. It proved to be very contrary to the diredl experience of fome of our belt furgeons; and Mr Sharpe himfelf feems afterwards to be convinced that his firft ideas refpedling this operation had been very ill founded *j*. I will not pofitively fay, that the expe- rience of another pradlitioner will not lead him to make a different conclufion refpe<5ling the fuccefs of thefe three modes of operating. Confequences which I have not met with, may follow each of thefe methods. My opinion is chiefly founded on my own obfervation; and as the op- portunities 1 have had of treating this dif- order, Tenth Edition, Chap. IX. f Critical Inquiry, Firft Edition, p,86.Sed. IV. Of the Hydrocele» 46 i order, and of being concerned with others in the management of it, in all the variety of ways we have mentioned, have been, frequent and ample, I have delivered it without referve or difficulty. To thofe who are not thoroughly ac- quainted with the importance of the fub- je<5l, it may perhaps appear that it has been here treated with more minutenefs than is neceffary; but I know I will not be confidered as blameable in this particu- lar by praflitioners of experience. We now proceed to confider the third fpecies of fcrotal hydrocele, viz. that va- riety of the diforder in which the wa- ter is colleded in the cavity of a hernial fac. SECTION IV. Of the Hydrocele of a Hernial Sac. r every fpecies of hernia, when the parts have been long protruded, a quantity of a ferous fluid colleds in the bottom of the462 Of the hydrocele. Chap. VI. the fac ; and if any obftacle occurs to the abforption of this, if the diforder is feated in the fcrotum, we can eafily conceive the poilibility of the tumor augmenting to fuch a fize as to afford all the ufual marks of a hydrocele: And accordingly, on con- fulting the various authors who have writ- ten upon hernia and hydrocele, I find a number of cafes enumerated, which fufG- ciently warrant the infertion of this as a real, and perhaps not an unfrequent, va- riety of the diforder. It was well known to the ancients, that a confiderable quantity of a fluid is fre- quently contained in the fac of a hernia, along with the parts protruded from the abdomen; but Saviard feems to have been the firfl; who entered into a particular con- fideration of this occurrence. Le Dran relates different cafes of it: Heifler fpeaks- of it under the title of Hydro-enterocele: And the late Dr Monro defcribes it with his ufual accuracy, and mentions a cafe of this kind where fix pounds of water were evacuated from the tumor by an opening 3 made463 Sedl. IV. Of the Hydrocele. made with the trocar A cafe of it is alfo related by Douglas f» two cafes of a fimilar nature are mentioned by Mr Pott J. / The water is in this diforder confined in a cyft formed by a procefs of the peri- tonseum, and as it occupies nearly the fame fituation in the fcrotum with the hydro- cele of the tunica vaginalis, fo we cannot, by the feel alone, on every occafion mark the difference between them. For altho’ the teflicle in this fpecies of hydrocele is commonly diftinguifhed more evidently at the lower and pofterior part of the fwel- ling than in the hydrocele of the vaginal coat, yet the difference in this particular between the two difeafes is not always fo evident as to prove a fufficient mark of diflin<5lion. When a portion of gut and other parts forming the hernia are down, the fulnefs they produce along the fpermatic cord, ferves in fome meafure to diflinguifh the diforder * Monro’s Works, p. 579. f hoc, cit. p. 182. t Treatife on the Hydrocele, p. 21.464 Of the Hydrocele, Chap.VL diforder from a fimple hydrocele. And when, along with this and other fymptoms of hernia, we evidently difcover in the tumor of the fcrotum a fludluation of a fluid, if this fluid can by preflure be made to difappear either entirely or in part, the nature of the diforder is thus rendered obvious. This fpecies of hydrocele may occur as readily in the hernia congenita, as in any other variety of rupture; and in that event, the water mufl for certain be con- tained in the fame fac both with the tef- ticle and protruded inteflines. Indeed, as all the fluid naturally fecreted for keeping the furface of the different abdominal vifcera moift, muft in the cafe of a conge- nital rupture fall into the hernial fac, we would be induced to fuppofe that almoft every cafe of this kind of hernia ought to be complicated with the diforder we are now defcribing. The tw’-o cafes of this fpecies of hydrocele related by Mr Pott, we find to have been connected with a hernia congenita, and 1 have myfelf feen two in- ftances 4Se(B:. IV. Of the Hydrocele,, 465 fiances of the fame kind. But whether this commonly happens or not, farther obfervation will difcover. Whatever fpecies of hernia this kind of hydrocele may be connedled with, if the water can by prefiure be made to pafs into the abdomen, this will always prove a cer- tain charadleriftic of the difeafe; for in no other fpecies of encyfied hydrocele is it pofiible to make the water difappear by prefiure. It may happen, however, in this kind of hydrocele, that this difiinguifliing fymptom of the difeafe does not exift ; for if by the prefiTure of a trufs, or from any other caufe, an adhefion is produced in the groin between the fides of the her- nial fac, if the under part of the fac con- tinues open with water collected in it, the tumor which it occafions will afibrd all the ufual' appearances of a hydrocele, while no part of its contents can be made to pafs into the abdomen by prefiTure : A cafe of this kind we find related by Le Dran, where the neck of the hernial fac VoL.I. Gg wasOf the Hydrocele. Chap. VI.' 466 was fhut completely, and a hydrocele form- ed in the under part of it. In fuch a cafe, the only means of diftinc- tion will be, an acquaintance with the previous hiftory of the diforder. When- ever in an ambiguous cafe of this kind it is foundj thatj before the water began to collect in the fcrotum, the patient had been liable to a hernia of the fame fide, this cir- cumftance alone will tend much to deter- mine the nature of the difeafe. But even although a miftake fhould occur here, and although this fpecies of hydrocele fliould be confidered by a pra(5litioner as a fimple hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, nothing bad could enfue from it; for the treat- ment adapted to one fpecies of the difeafe, would apply with nearly equal propriety to the other. But when the protruded parts fiill re- main 'down, unlefs the operation for the bubonocele is at the fame time fubmitted to, no other operation fliould be attempted than that of difcharging the water by a pun(flure with a fmall trocar, when the fize ofSe<fl. IV, Of the Hydrocele. 46; G g 2 much of the tumor renders fuch a flep necefTary, For unlefs it was intended to perform the operation for the hernia at the fame time, much mifchief might enfue from expofing the bowels to the external air, by laying the tumor open for a radical cure of the hydrocele. Whenever in this fpecies of hydrocele it is refolved to have recourfe to the radical cure^ the Ample inciAon ought unqueftion- ably to be employed ; as from the rifk of injuring the bowels or other parts pro- truded from the abdomen, neither the fe- ton nor cauftic are here admiAible. Indeed this conAderation of itfelf affords a very ftrong argument in favour of the method of treating the hydrocele in every inAance byinciAon, which lays all the parts concern- ed in the diforder open to view : The very poffibility of a patient being killed by a feton paffing thro’ a portion ofinteftine contain^ ed in a hydrocele* is a weighty objection againft the feton being ever ufed; and every pracflitioner muft acknowledge, that when the fpermatic procefs along the groin isOf the Hydrocele, CHap.VL 4^8 much diftended, and when the vaginal coat of the teftis is much thickened, fuch uncertainty often occurs as to render it impoflible for the moft fkilful furgeons to determine with precihon what the contents of fuch fwellings really are. In the two inftances above alluded to, of a hydrocele connedted with a congenital hernia, and which I met with fome years ago, there had not been previoufly in either of them any caufe to fufpedl the real nature of the cafe. They were both by fkilful pradli- tioners taken to be colleclions of water in the tunica vaginalis without any compli- cation whatever; and in each of them, on the tumor being laid open, together with water in conta6l with the tefUcle, a piece of intefline was found protruded into the upper part of the fcrotum : In' one of the cafes, too, a fmall portion of omentum ac- companied the gut. In this laft, it was propofed, at a conful- tation of different furgeons, to employ the feton. For fome reafon or other, this was fortunately rejeded; for, on laying the tu- mor469 Se6l. IV. Of the Hydrocele. mor open by incifion it evidently appeared, that if a cord had been introduced, it muft in all probability have paffed through the protruded gut. The mere poffibility, there- fore, of fuch an occurrence, I would con- iider as a very material objedlion to the method of treating any cafe of encylled hydrocele by the feton. SECTION V. Of the Amfarcous Hydrocele of the Spermatic Cord. J N tlxe anatomical defeription we gave of thefe parts, it was obferved, that, foon after the defeent of the teftes, the palTage along the fpermatic procefs of the perito- naeum is completely obliterated, by the fides of the paffage adhering to one ano- , ther through the intervention of cellular fubftance. By external prelTure, and perhaps from other caufes, this adhelion of the lides of the peritonaeal procefs in general is very ^irm in that part of it which pafTes along ' the groin j but the fuperior and more in- G g 3 ternai470 Of the Hydrocele, Chap. VI. ternal part of the procefs, is not only more loofe in itfelf, but is conneded with and enveloped in a very loofe cellular fub-^ ftance. From this cellular ftrudure of thefe parts we might a priori fuppofe them to be liable to oedematous fwellings, which other parts of the body of a limilar ftrudure are frequently attacked with: And according- ly, we find this procefs of the peritonseum liable to partake of every anafarcous fwel- ling with which the reft of the body is attacked; it fometimes accompanies af- cites; and it now and then appears as a local diforder, without being combined with either of thefe. The caufes of this diforder in general are, obfti'udions produced in the lym^ phatics of the part, by fcirrhous affedions of the liver, fpleen, and other abdominal vifcera : I have likewife known it induced by the prelTure of a trufs applied for the cure of a hernia *. When * An inftance of this kind is alfo mentioned by Douglas. Treatife on the Hydrocele.471 Se6l. V, Of the Hydrocele. When a fwelling of this kind is connec- ted with a general anafarcous affedlion, the nature of the diforder is fo diftindtly marked as to render a particular defcrip- tion of it unneceiTary. When it oc- curs as a local difeafe, its appearances are thefe : A colourlefs tumor in the courfe of the fpermatic cord; foft and inelaftic to the feel, and not attended with fluifluation. In an eredl pofture, it is of an oblong fi- gure ; but in a recumbent pofture of the body, it becomes more flat, and fomewhat round. It does not commonly occupy more than the ufual ftretch of the cord along the groin; but on fome occaflons, it ex- tends down the length of the tefticle, and even ftretches the fcrotum to an enormous fize"^. By preflTure the fwelling can be al- ways made to recede, if not entirely, at - leaft in great part, into the cavity of the abdomen; but it inft^ntly,returns to oc- I G g 4 cupy * A remarkable Inftance of this is related by Mr Pott, who from a fwelling of this kind difcharged eleven Englidi pints at once. Treatife on the Hydro- cele, Cafe X.472 Of the Hydrocele. Chap. VI. cupy its former Iituation on the preJTure being withdrawn. When a tumor of this kind depends up- on a general anafarcous fwelling of the body, unlefs the caufe which gave rife to the original difeafe of the conftitutipn be. removed, it would be a vain attempt to en- deavour to cure this particular fymptom ;• and it commonly happens, that thefe fwelr lings in the groin which occur in the ana- farca, difappear, when the difeafe of the, fyftem at large is carried off. But when a fwelling of 'this nature oc- curs as an original diforder ; produced per- haps by fomc local caufe; a local remedy is then the only means necelTary to be em- ployed. In fuch a cafe, as we have not the general bad habit of body to encounter, which commonly occurs in cafes of fcrotal anafarca, we need not be fo much afraid of making a free large jncifion into the. tumor; and accordingly all that is necef- fary to be done here, is this: As foon as the fwelling has acquired fuch a fize as to be-, come inconvenient, an incilion Ihould be madeSetfl. V. Of the Hydrocele, 473 made with a fcalpel from one end of it to the other, taking care to go fo deep as ef-^ fedtiially to evacuate all the water contain- ed in the cells of the part; and as the wa- ter is now and then found to have'acqui- red a vifcid confiftence, this circumftance renders a deep incifion more necelTary than it otherwife would be. The contents of the fwelling being all removed, fome foft lint fhould be inferted between the lips of the fore, which muft afterwards be treated in every refpedl as a fimple wound from any other caufe; by poultices and fomentations, if much pain and a fcanty fuppuration render thefe re- medies neceflary ; and by a due attention to drelling fo as to induce the formation of firm granulations from the bottom. SECTION VI. Of the Encyfled Hydrocele of the Spermatic Cord, rjj^HE furrounding fubflance of the fper- ^ matic cord being altogether cellular, the474 Of the Hydrocele^ Chap. VI. the farmation of encyfted tumors, we may conclude, ought here to be as frequent as in other parts of the body; and accord- ingly we find in fome inftances, that water, inftead of diffufing itfelf over the whole fpermatic procefs, is colledled in one or more diftind: cells or cyfts. This kind of hydrocele being on its firft appearance very fmall, gives little or no trouble, and is therefore feldom much no- ticed till it has acquired a larger fize. On fome occafions, the fwelling begins in the fuperior part of the procefs; but in gene- ral, it is firft obferved towards its lower extremity a little above the epididymis. By degrees, however, it ftretches upwards, and on fome occafion fo far downwards as to reach from the abdominal mufcles to the very bottom of the fcrotum; in which cafe, a perfon not verfant in dif- orders of this nature, may very probably miftake this fpecies of hydrocele for a col- ledlion in the tunica vaginalis teftis: But we have here a very charadleriftic diftinc- tion between the two difeafes. In the com- mencement475 Se(5l. VI. Of the Hydrocele, mencement of this fpecies of fwelling, the tumor is always above the tefticle, which is diftindHy felt below it; and even in the moft advanced ftages of the diforder^ the teftis is found lying at the back part of it, perfe(5lly unconnected with the fwelling: Whereas, in the advanced (late of a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, al- though fome degree of hardnefs is always difcovered at that part where the vaginal coat adheres to the tefticle; yet in the lat- ter period of that diforder, when the fwell- ing is confiderable, the teftis itfelf can ne- ver be diftinClly felt. In the fpecies of hy- drocele we are now defcribing, the figure and fize of the penis is not commonly fb much altered, as when the water is collec- ted in the tunica vaginalis, when the penis is frequently made to difappear almoft en- tirely. In other particulars, the encyfted dropfy of the fpermatic cord is very fimilar to the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis teftis. A fluClviation of a fluid is evidently difcover- edOf the Hydrocele. Chap. VI, 476 ed on prefTure: The tumor is commonly of a pyramidal form, as is generally too the cafe with the other, with its bafe or largeft extremity downwards*; And no prefTure has any influence in making it difappear either altogether or in part. ^ This is the appearance of the diforder when the water is contained in one cyft; when it is feparated into two diftindl cells, the line of divifion is commonly evident, by the tumor being at that part fomewhat puckered, or fometimes a little diminiflied in its diameter. A fimilar appearance, we may obferve too, takes place when this fpe- cies of fwelling is combined with a real hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis teftis, which on fome occalions it is : And in that cafe, a line of feparation is obferved at that * A hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis teftis is fo frequently of a pyramidal form, with its bafe down- wards, that this fhape may be confidered as one of the chara£leriftic appearances of the difeafe; every other tumor to which the teftis and its coats are li- able, being either more round, or of a ,more irregular {hape.Sfed.VL Of the Hydrocele, 477 that part where the upper extremity of the tunica vaginalis terminates. We have already mentioned the means of diftin(5Hon between this fpecies of hy- drocele and that of the vaginal coat of the tellis. The only other afFec51ions with which it is in danger of being confounded, ai e the anafarcous hydrocele of thefpermatic cord; and a real hernia, either of the omentum, or of a portion of gut. From the former, however, as alfo from an omental hernia, it may in general be diftinguiflied by the feel. In neither of thefe can the fludtua- tion of a fluid be in the leaf! perceived, and to the touch they are both foft and inela- ftic; whereas, in this fpecies of hydrocele, the tumor has a fpringy kind of feel, and a flu61uatlon is evidently found in it. And in both the others, the fwelling recedes more or lefs upon prefTure, which it never does in this fpecies of eneyfted hydrocele. From a gut rupture it is chiefly diflln- guiflied by the tumor beginning, not at the ring in the external oblique mufcle, as is the cafe in hernia, but farther down the cord:Of the Hydrocele. Chap. VI. 478 cord: In the latter, too, the fwelling com- monly turns lefs on the patient getting into a horizontal pofture; and it is always confiderably aflPe(5led both by coughing and fneezing; but no pofture, no prefTure', nor any accident whatever, alters the fize of this variety of hydrocele. The abfence of other fymptoms of hernia, too, is here ma- terial in the diflindtion: For there is nei- ther pain in the tumor, nor in the abdo- men j nor licknefs, vomiting, nor any in- terruption to the pafTage by ftool, as there very commonly are in hernia. Although all the ancient writers were quite unacquainted with the anatomy of * the parts concerned in this diforder, it is evident they were well aware of its exift- ence. We find it particularly defcribed by ^gineta, Albucafis, and afterwards by Fal- lopius, Wifeman, &c. Arnaud, in his trea- tife on hernia, alfo takes notice of it, tho* not with much accuracy; and we find it more lately defcribed with exadinefs, by the late Do6lor Monro, by Douglas, and by Mr Pott. ThisSe<5l.VI. Of the Hydrocele, 479 This fpecies of hydrocele, as alfo the ana- farcous fwelling of the cord, and the cede- matous tumor of the fcrotum, are all very frequent in infancy. In that tender age, however, they generally foon diffipate, and in this they are much aflifted by the appli- cation of cloths dipped in fpirit of wine; and I have feen much advantage produced by an application of a ftrong infufion of red- rofe leaves, combined with a confiderable proportion of alum. The late Doctor Monro advifes the application of cloths warmed with the fumes of burning benzoin. But in adults, the cyft confining the wa- ter generally becomes fo firm as not to be affefted by any of thefe remedies. So that when it arrives at any confiderable fize, which it frequently does, either the means for the palliative or radical cure may be employed, as was recommended in the hy- drocele of the tunica vaginalis teftis. When it is intended merely to evacuate the water by pun(5lure, it ought to be done with a trocar, in the fame manner as was direded for a hydrocele of the tunica va- ginalis ;480 Of the Hydrocele.. Chap. Vf, ginalis ; taking care to introduce the in- llrnment at the moft depending part of the tumor. And again, when it is in^ tended to efFedl a radical cure, the fame means are to be employed which we for- merly recommended in the other fpecies of the difeafe. There do not here, indeedj occur the fame objections to the ufe of the feton, as in the hydrocele of the tunica va- ginalis, from the prefence of the teflicle : And if we could in every fpecies of hy- drocele afcertain with certainty the exadl contents of. the tumor, the feton might no doubt be employed here with fafety and advantage: But as it is clear from what we have already faid upon this point, that no certainty of this kind can be obtained ; and as a hydrocele of a hernial fac in vchich a portion of gut is contained, may be as readily confounded with this as with any other fpecies of the difeafe; I would therefore without hefitation lay this me- thod of cure entirely afide. A material objedion occurs to the me- thod of cure by Caudle in this fpecies of 4 hydrocele,Sed. VI. Of the Hydrocele*. 481 hydrocele, which is not applicable in the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis^ viz. the water being in fome inftances of this dif- order colle<5led in two or more diftinfl cyfts ; different cafes of which 1 have met with, and fimilar occurrences are related both by Garengeot and Douglas.—Now in fuch an event, if cauflic fliould be applied in the method recommended by Mr Elfe, upon a fmall fpot only, all the water would not be evacuated; and in order to obtain a complete removal of the diforder, it would be neceffary to repeat the appllca* tion of the cauflic. This, I think, is an additional reafon for employing in all fuch inftances the method of cure by incifion; which, by laying the tumor open from one end to the other, di- vides at once all the different cyfls of which it may be compofed, and faves the patient from that dlftrefs and difappointment which mufl always be experienced, on a complete cure not being obtained when good reafons had been previoufly given for expedling it. We would therefore advife VoL,I. Hh theOf the Hydrocele, Chap. VI. 482 the treatment by incilion in this fpecies of hydrocele, in the fame manner as was re- commended in the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis; the mode of performing the operation, and the after-treatment of the patient, being nearly the fame in each. We have thus enumerated all the kinds of hydrocele which can properly be confidered as forming diftindl varieties of the diforder. In doing fo, as no difeafe is defcribed but fuch as every pradlitioner of experience muft have met with, and of which the fymptoms are clearly and diftin<5lly mark- ed ; fo it will not, 1 hope, be confidered as an unneceflary degree of minutenefs that I have particularly taken notice of them all. I can by no means agree with fome authors, particularly with Mr Sharpe* and Mr Elfef, who think it might be better to confine the defcription of this diforder to two fpecies. We need not indeed wonder at Mr Sharpe fpeaking in this manner: For even at the late period in which he wrote, although * Treatife on the Operations of Surgery. ■}• Loco citato.483 ScT^. IV. Of the Hydrocele, although the exiftence of all the varieties of the difeafe we have mentioned had been defcribed by different authors, yet they were not till of late years underftood with much accuracy ; and it is very evident from Mr Sharpe’s writings on this fubjed:, that his ideas of thefe diforders were in many refpedls more confufed than could have been expedled in one of his ufual accuracy and penetration. But whatever was the cafe with Mr Sharpe, it is truly fur- prifing, that thofe who are unqueftionably well informed in every circumftance re- lating to this diforder, and who mufl be convinced, from their acquaintance with diffedlion, of the exiftence of all the varieties of the difeafe that have been mentioned, ftiould object to their being retained. Where no evident or marked diftincftion occurs between one tumor and another, an attempt to eftablifti a dif- ference would be ufelefs, and therefore improper; but where appearances point out an obvious variety, it would furely be confidered as an unpardonable ne- H h 2 glea484 Of the Hydrocele, Chap. VI, gledl in an author to othit the detail of them. In our defcription of the five different fpecies of hydrocele, viz. the anafarcous fwelling of the fcrotum; the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis teftis; the hydrocde of the hernial fac; the anafarcous fwelling of the fpermatic cord; and the encyfted colledlion in that part; it was neceflary in going along to enumerate the fymptoms of each as they occur feparately and uncom- bined. It fometimes happens, however, that one, two, or more of the different fpe- cies occur at the fame time in the fame patient: On fome occafions I have met with three, and not unfrequently with two, va- rieties in the fatne perfon: The late Dodlpr Monro mentions an inftance of four fpecies of hydrocele being all combined in one cafe^. In fuch occurrences fome difficulty and confufion is, no doubt, to be expeded; but praditioners, in forming a judgment of their nature, mull be entirely direded by a * See his works, p. 576.485 Se6l. VI. Of the Hydrocele, a due attention ta the various fymptoms which ufually occur in a feparate ftate in each variety of the difeafe. We now proceed to the confideration of the other varieties of falfe hernia j and hrft of the Hsematocele. HE Hasmatocele is a tumor in the fcrotum or fpermatic cord, produced by extravafated blood. The ufual feat of fuch tumors is in the tunica vaginalis of the teftis; but on fome occafions they are feated in the fpermatic procefs, and now and then they are met with in the dartos. Tumors of this kind are in general pro- CHAP. VII. Of the HiEMATOCELE. HI13 duced486 Of the Hcematocele. Chap. VII, duced by the rupture of one or more blood-veflels, in Gonfequence of external violence. Blows upon the fcrotum have produced ruptures of veins, not only in the cellular fubftance of the fcrotum, but in the vaginal coat of the tefticle; and ac~ cidents of a fimilar nature have produced fimilar alFe(5lions in the courfe of the fper- matic cord: And as the parts in this fitua- tion are very lax and cellular, the rupture either of an artery, or of a vein of any confiderable fize, will always be attended with a plentiful extravafation of their con- tents. In the tunica vaginalis teftis, this difor- der is frequently induced by the point of a trocar or of a lancet in tapping for a hydro- cele, wounding fome of the blood-veffels of the fac, which in fuch cafes are always much enlarged. In fuch an occurrence, we are commonly[rendered certain of what has happened, by the water drawn off be- ing fuddenly tinged with blood; but on other occafions it does not appear till the water is all evacuated, and then a tumor ofChap. VII. Of the Hamalocele, 487 of a confiderable fize is frequently produ- ced in the courfe of a very Ihort fpace of time. In fome of thefe cafes, where the bulk of water has been remarkable, the fudden difcharge of it, by taking away the fup- port which the veflels of the part have been for fome time accuftomed to receive from it, has undoubtedly been the caufe of the rupture of fome of them; and from re- peated obfervation I think it may be con- lidered as a certainty, whenever a tumor is produced either in the fcortum or fperma- tic cord, fuddenly after the water of a hydrocele has been evacuated by tapping, that it is entirely the confequence of an extravafation of blood; for colle6Hons of water are never known to arrive fo quickly at a confiderable fize. In the fpermatic procefs, injuries of the fame kind will be attended with a fimilar effe6l upon the fmaller veins of the fac containing the water; and more confider- able violence has on fome occafions pro- H h 4 duced488 Of the Hematocele» Chap. VII. duced a rupture of the fpermatic artery and vein. But, in whatever way the tumor has been produced, the appearances are nearly limilar to thofO of watery colle6tions in the fame partsy fb that we do not confider it as neceflary to repeat them here: Only it may be obferved, that when blood is extravafated in the fcrotum, it is eafily dil~ covered from a collecfUon of water by the colour, it being in every refpecfl a real Ecchymofis. When the fwelling is feated in the tunica vaginalis, the means of di- ftinguifliing between blood and water, is, that a tumor produced by the former, feels to be more heavy than water in propor- tion to its bulk; and they who are much accullomed to handle fuch diforders, are on many occafions fenfible of a difference of confiflence. The treatment here is nearly the fame that we have already recommended in cafes of hydrocele. In the commencement of the anafarcous or diffufed fpecies of hsematocele, when produced by a flight external vio- lence, whether in the fcrotum or fperma- ticChap. VII. Of the Hamatocele, 489 tic procefs, the application of ardent fpirits, or of a folution of alum, will on fome occafions elfedl its difcuffion: But when this, upon trial, is not found to fucceed, the tumor is to be laid open, and in every refpec51: treated in the fame manner as was di reeled for the hydrocele; only, if a rup- tured blood-velTel is difcovered, the only efFedlual means of preventing a return of the diforder is to fecure it by ligature. In the fame manner, all colle(5lions of blood, either in the vaginal coat of the teftis, or in the cyft of a former hydrocele of the fpermatic cord, are to be laid open by an incifion extending the whole length of the tumor, and are to be treated as we formerly dire<5led for hydrocele. And, as we have already: advifed in the diifufed fpecies of haematocele, if any ruptured vef- fel comes into view in the courfe of the operation, it ought to be immediately fe- cured by ligature. It fometimes happens, however, inaffedlions ofthiskind, both of the fpermatic procefs and tunica vaginalis teftis, that the veflels from whence the blood490 Of the Htematocele. Chap. VIL blood is difcharged cannot be detedled; a very confiderable oozing continuing from day to day, notwithftanding the ufe of bark, vitriolic acid, and every other means commonly employed in fuch cafes. If, after a proper trial of all the ordinary remedies ufed in cafes of hsemorrhagies, the veflels from whence the blood is dif- charged cannot be otherwife fecured, the end in view may frequently be obtained by extirpation of the tefticle; which, in fuch occurrences, is the only remedy from which any advantage is to he expelled. Another fpecies of hasmatocele is taken notice of by Mr Pott, in which the blood is contained within the tunica albuginea of the teftis. It proceeds, he thinks, from a relaxation or diffolution of part of the vafcular ftrudlure of the tefticle; and when the quantity of blood colledled is confider- able, it produces, Mr Pott remarks, a fluc- tuation fome what like to that of an hydro- cele of the tunica vaginalis. When this happens to be miftaken for aChap. V Hi Of the Hematocele. 491 a hydrocele, as it has fometimes been, and an opening with a trocar is made into it, a difcharge is produced, of a dark, dulky- coloured blood, nearly of the confiflence of thin chocolate ; but although fome di- minution may be made in the fize of the tumor, by the evacuation thus obtained, yet no conllderable alteration is elFedled by it. Any perforation that is made into it, ac- cordingly does no good; and as the teflicle is commonly fo far fpoiled by the difeafe as to be rendered quite ufelefs, caftration is advifed as the only effedual remedy *. I have different times met with a difeafe very fimilar to this defcribed by Mr Pott: But as the blood in fuch inftances did not appear to be extravafated, but to be ftill contained in the veffels of the teftis in an enlarged varicofe ftate, I would not incline, therefore, to refer this kind of tumor to any fpecies of haematocele. I have even feen this diforder miftaken for a hydrocele, and treated as fuch, by a trocar being plunged * Mr Pott’s Treatife on the Hydrocele.49^ Of the Hcsmatocele, Chap. VII, plunged into it, when the effeds were juft fuch as are defcribed by Mr Pott. But, if the blood had been extravafated, a more copious difcharge ought to have taken place, in confequence of the operation, than was procured by it in any of the cafes I have met with: Even where the tumor has been of a confiderable lize, I never found it pof- fible to evacuate in this manner more than a fpoonful or two of blood; and although in fuch cafes the blood appears evidently to be thicker than it ought to be, yet it is by no means fo much fo as ftiould prevent it from being freely difchiarged by the canula of a trocar if it was lodged in a ftate of ex- travafation. But, in all the inftances I have ever feen of this diforder, the blood appeared to be ftill contained within its proper vef- fals in an enlarged varicofe ftate; fo that, inftead of confidering fuch a tunior as a variety of haematocele, il would rather re- fer it to a fpecies' of Varix. In any cafes of this kind that have oc- curred to me, when the tumors were not opened, but were entirely trufted to the fup-Chap. VII. Of the Hematocele, 493 fupport afforded by a fufpenfory, they have in fome inftances remained for many years without being produdive of any mifchief: And they, are commonly attended with this peculiarity, that wheneffecflually fupported by a bandage, they remaia ftationary for a great length of time, ^without acquiring any additional lize; a circumftance which no fupport will prevent either in a hydro- cele or in the real hsematocele. But as foon as the tumor, by being miflaken for a hy- drocele, is touched with an inftrument with a view to evacuate its contents, it is from that moment fure to go wrong. The patient, from being previouily liable to little or no pain, immediately on the tui- mor being opened becomes very much diftreffed ; the fwelling then begins to in- creafe, and in a gradual manner to prove fo troublefome by frequent -difcharges of blood, as to render caftration - abfolutely neceffary. Even this difagreeable refource does not always prove a certain relief; for it fome- times happens, that fuch a fpungy relaxed Bate494 Of the Hamatocele. Chap.VIL flare of the veffels occurs along the whole courfe of the cord, that although they are fecured by ligature to-day, the blood burfts out from different parts of the fore to- morrow. I happened once to be concern- ed in a very melancholy inftance of this kind: After the ufual operation of caiftra- tion, frefh hsemorrhagies occurred at every dreffing; the veffels were at different times fecured by ligature, but to no purpofe; the blood burft out again and again; and the patient, after fuffering much diflrefs, at lafl died. The only difference which, before laying the parts open, can be obferved between this fpecies of tumor, and a real hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, is, that in this, the fludluation in the fwelling is never fo evi- dent as in the other; the tumor is heavy in proportion to its fize; and if properly fupported by a bandage, it does not receive any additional increafe. Whenever thefe circumflances, therefore, occur in the fame cafe, it ought to afford much reafon to fufpc(5l that the fwelling is of this nature, I and /Chap. VII. Of the Hematocele, 495 and that accordingly it ought not to be meddled with. As I confider this diforder to be entirely of the varicofe kind, I would not have thought of introducing the confideration of it here; but as it was proper to mention its having been taken notice of by others as a fpecies of hsematocele, I thought it better to finifli the difeuffion of it at once, than to be under the neceflity of bringing it in again in a fubfequent chapter. CHAP. VIII. Of the Varicocele, Cirsocele, Sper- matocele, and Pneumatocele. By the fir ft of thefe terms is meant, a varicofe diftenfion of the veins of the ferotum; which in this ftate form a tumor496 Of the Cirfocele, tsfc, Chap.VIII. tumor of hard knotty inequalities, feldom attended with pain, and in general pro- dudlive of no inconvenience except what arifes from'its bulk. ’ - ' Tho Girfocele is a tumor of a nature fi- milar to ^ the former, in the courfe of the fpermatic cord, extending from the fupe* rior part of the fcrotum^to the abdomihal mufcles, and produced by-a varlcofe dif- tenlion of the fpermatic vein. Both thefe affections are now and then produced, by obflruClion of one kind or another in the veins of thefe parts: but mod frequently they depend on a debilitated relaxed date of the veins. When tumors in the courfe of the veins are detected as the caufe of fuch fwellings, or when the preffure of a hernial trufs up- on the fpermatic procefs is difcovered to be their origin; the removal of this evi- dent caufe of the difeafe ought to be the fird attempt towards a cure. If the prefliire of a trufs has been the caufe of the'Twelling, an alteration in the bandage may probably remove it. If I J tu-Ghap-VlIL Of the Varicocele, 497 tumors of a hard fcirrhous nature havd produced it, their extirpation, when that is found to be practicable, will be the moft effectual means that can be employed; and if the tumors have any tendency to fup- purate, warm emollient applications will be more ufeful than any other remedy. But when a general relaxed Bate of the veins is fufpeCted to give rife to the com- plaint, fuch remedies ought to be employed as will moft effectually recover that tone, of which they have been deprived by be- ing long over-diftended. For this purpofe nothing commonly anfwers fo well as the ufe of a proper fufpenfory bandage ; a ho- rizontal poflure; the cold bath ; and the application of a folution of alum and other aflringents, to the parts affeCted. By a due continuation of thefe means every affeCtion of this kind may be always prevented from increafing, and will com- monly be fo far relieved as to renderthe haffh. means by the knife, the cautery, and liga- ture, recommended by ancient writers for the removal of fuch tumors, unneceffary. VoL. I. I i By498 spermatocele^ Chap. VIII. By the term Spermatocele, is meant, a morbid diftenhon of the epididymis and vas deferens, produced by a ftagnation of femen. This may be produced by tumors, ftri(5lure, or inflammation, about the caput gallinaginis^ or in the courfe of the de~ ferens ; but there is reafon to think, that it is more frequently induced by the laft, viz. by inflammation, than by either of the other two. When an inflammatory afFe(5lion of the parts is difcovered to be the caufe of the difeafe, general and topical blood-letting, gentle laxatives, a low cooling diet, and reft of body, will commonly be found the moft effedlual Tcmedies. And again, when tu- mors are difcovered to prefs upon the vas deferens^ they ought either to be brought to fuppurate, or their extirpation fhould be attempted when that can be done with pro- priety. At other inmes, thefe tumors are found to depend on a venereal caufe; and in fiich inftances a well-dire<5ted courfe of mercury has been known to remove them. On fome occafions we are told, that all theChap. VIIL Of the Pneumatocele^ 499 the other means having failed^ caftration has at laft been found requifite. This, however, we cannot fuppofe to be ever a very necelTary meafure. The term Pneumatocele, is applied to fignify a diftenfion of the fcrotum by a colledlion of air. This has been defcribed by molt of the ancient writers as a very frequent occur- rence ; but there is much reafon to think, that a great proportion of all the tumors they take notice of as containing air, were either formed by collections of water, of by a protrufion of fome of the bowels. That fpecies of hernia to which young children are liable, is to this day by our common people termed a Wind Rupture ; as are ail thofe collections of water in the fcrotum, with which new-born infants are affeCled: But we know well, that none of thefe tumors are formed merely by wind ; their contents being of a very different na- ture. In wounds of the lungs, air is fometimes thrown into the furrounding cellular fub-- I i 2; fiance,500 Of the Pneumatocele, Chap. VIIL ftance, and in that way pafles into the fcrotum, as it does in particular inftances over the whole body ; and in high degrees of putrid difeafes, fo much air may be fe- parated from the blood, as to diftend the cellular fubftance of the fcrotum^ as yrell as-of other parts: But a real pneumatocele has never, probably, exifted as a mere local afFe<5lion of the fcrotum; at lead I have never feen it. In the cafe of air diffufed into the cellu- lar fubftance of thefe parts, in confequence of a wound or any other affection of the lungs producing an excravafation of it, the fame method of cure will anfwer for its removal that we recommended for anafar- cous fwellings formed by water, viz fmall pundlures with the point of a lancet, which are found to be fully fufhcient for evacua- ting great quantities of air. But whenever the difeafe is induced by fuch a great degree of putrefcency in the fydem as is neceffary for effetfling a feparation of air from the blood, there can be little reafon to expert any advantage to refult from whatever means may be employed for relief. CHAP,Chap« IX. Of the Sarcocek. 501 CHAP. IX. ty/^fSARcocELE, or Scirrhous Te S T I CEE. By the term Sarcocele, is underftood, a firm fleihy kind of enlargement of the tefticle: A fimple inflammatory aflTection of the teftis affords a tumor of fome de- gree of firmnefs; but the true farcocele, or fcirrhous tefticle, is attended with a hard- nefs never to be met with in the real hernia humoralis or inflamed tefticle. A fcirrhous tefticle, in the courfe of its progrefs puts on fuch a variety of appear- ances, as renders it difiicult by defcription to give an adequate idea of it: In general, however, the accefiion and progrefs of the difeafe is as follows. An 1502 Of the Sareocek. Chap. IX* An unufual degree of hardnefs, attended •with a trifling enlargement of the whole teflis, proves in general to be the firft indi- cation of the difeafe: In the beginning, no difcolouration* is obferved, nor is there any material pain: In a gradual manner the tumor acquires a larger fize : As yet it re- mains fmooth and equal on its furface; but with the fize of the fwelling, the hard- nefs alfo becomes more remarkable: Slight pains are at times felt through the fub- ftance of the tumor; and if it be not fuf- pended, the patient complains of fome un- eafinefs in his back. When there is nothing particularly bad in the conftitution, the diforder will on fome occafions remain in this fituation for a great length of time ; and in a few in- ftances, ’ by a moderate diet, keeping an open belly, fufpending the tumor proper- ly, and avoiding violent exercife, the dif- order has not only been prevented from in-r creafing, but has in a gradual mannerdifli- pated: Such favourable occurrences, how- ever, it muft be owned, are exceedingly rare;503 Chap. IX. Of the SarCocek, rare; for the fwelling, inftead of difciiffing, or remaining (ladonary, in general pro- ceeds with more or lefs rapidity to turn worfe. The tumor acquires a larger lize; becomes ragged and unequal on its fur- face ; and the pain, which at firft was tri- fling, becomes more fevere, darting, in fmart flings through the fubflance of the tumor. The inequalities on the furface of the tumor by degrees increafe, and continue to retain the fame kind of hardnefs with the fwelling from which they originate: On fome occafions, a confiderable quantity of ferum is extravafated into the tunica vagi- nails, which, to thofe not acquainted v/itfe. the nature of fuch diforders, gives the tu- mor the appearance of a common hydro- cele : And at other times, inftead of fuch depofltions into the vaginal coat, partial colledlions of matter are formed through, the whole body of the tuCnor ; Thefe by degrees increafe ; and the fcrotum, which has hitherto been gradually diflending, at laft burfls, and a difcbarge takes place 1 i 4 from.5'64 Of the Sarcocele, Chap, IX, from the various colledlions in the body of the tumor, of a thin, fetid, bloody matter. On fome occafions, the fpermatic cord becomes hard and enlarged foon after the commencement of the difeafe ; but in ge-^ neral the cord does not become affcdled till the tumor has acquired a confiderable fize, and moft frequently, I have obferved, not till matter has formed in fome part or other of the fwelling. As the diforder of the tefticle advances, this affedlion of the cord alfo becomes worfe: From being at firft only flightly tumefied, it gradually turns more hard and fwelled; it becomes very painful, and knotty or unequal through the whole ex- tent of it. The difcharge from the openings in the fcrotum ftill continues: But although the matter increafes in quantity, the fize of the tumor is not thereby diminifhed; on the contrary, it ftill continues to increafe : The edges of the fore become hard, livid, and retorted; and fungous excrefcences pufti put froui different parts of it. What-Chap. IX. Of the Sarcocde. 505 Whatever \vas the ftate of the patient’s conftitution on the firft attack of the dif- eafe, in this advanced ftate of it, it is al-^ ways greatly impaired : He now becomes emaciated; of a pale, wan complexion; and the diforder, which in this ftage of it is a real cancer of the moft malignant nature, turning ftill more virulent, by the pain becoming more tormenting, the patient is at laft carried off in very great mifery. Such, in general, is the progrefs and event of this dreadful diforder, if it be not inter- rupted by extirpation of the tefticle before the fwelling has proceeded too far. We have already faid that it exhibits a great variety of fymptoms : Thofe here enume- rated occur moft frequently; but no de- fcription can convey a clear idea of all the appearances it alTumes. On fome occa- fions, we have already obferved, it re- mains apparently in an indolent, inadlive ftate, for a great length of time, even for years; and in others it proceeds fo rapidly, that in the fpace of a few months it has been506 Of the Sarcocele, Chap. IX. been known to pafs through all the various changes we have enumerated. In by much the greateft proportion of fuch afFecflions the diforder begins in the body of the teftis) affe<5ling the whole of it equally; but now and then it makes its firft appearance in the epididymis, and fometimes even in the fpermatic cord. It has been a prevailing opinion, indeed, that a fcirrhous hardnefs tending to can- cer, never does begin in the epididymis ; but that the tefticle is always firft affecfted. This is certainly the cafe in general; but every practitioner muft at times have met with cafes of a real cancerous nature, be- ginning in the epididymis, and fometimes even in the fpermatic cord, and fpreading from thence to the neighbouring parts.— I might here infert different cafes of this nature, which have fallen within my own obfervation; but Mr Pott’s collection fur- nilhes a fufficient number of well-marked examples of the fact In almoft every cafe of fwelled tefticle from * Treatife on the Hydrocele, Cafes 42. 48. and 49.Chap. IX. Of the Sarcocek, 507 from a gonorrhoea, the epididymis is not only affedled before the tefticle, by the in- flammation in fuch cafes fpreading from the urethra along the vas deferens, when of oourfe it muft firfl; reach the epididymis; but the diforder in fuch cafes, when it begins to yield, always firfl removes from the tefticle^ leaving ingeneral a fcirrhous hardnefs in the epididymis, which on fome occafions in the courfe of time diflipates entirely, and in others remains of the fame degree ofhard- nefs for a confiderable time, and now and then even for life. But as the hardnefs pro- duced in this manner is merely the confe- quence of inflammation upon a membra- nous or vafcular part; fo here, as in other parts of the body of a fimilar texture, we feldom find, that hardnefs thus induced terminates in any thing bad. The contrary, however, of this has been too much inculcated. It has been faid, that the hernia humoralis produced by a vene- real infeclion, is a frequent caufe of the worft kind of fcirrhous teflicle; which, as the fa<fl is very much otherwife, has this improper508 Of the Sarcocele, Chap. IX. improper tendency, that it prevents the ufe of, and a proper perfeverance in, fuch courfes of medicine, as might, without the necefllty of extirpation, have removed it: There have even been inftances of this idea being fo improperly applied, as to be the means of different teftes being extirpated, which were evidently difeafed from a ve- nereal caufe, and which by proper courfes of mercury might in all probability have been removed. But although I have faid that affedlions of this nature, I mean a fwelling of the teftis from a venereal caufe, are very feldom known to end in any thing bad; yet I will not go fo far as to fay that they never do fo: For 1 know, that a hardened ftate of the teftis and epididymis, produced originally by a venereal taint, does in fome inftances degenerate into the worft fpecies of farco- cele; that is, that though affecftions of this kind do moft frequently terminate eafily, yet that now and then in particular confti- tutions, whofe peculiarities, however, we gre not acquainted with, they do certainly produceChap. IX. Of the Satcocele, 509 produce fcirrhofities of the very worfl; kind, when fuch ailments would never probably have appeared if the original venereal ♦•aint had not occurred as an exciting caufe of the diforder. We know well, that a predif- pofition to different diforders will remain long in a latent date in the fyltem without being produdlive of any evident affeclion, till the application of fome particular (li- mulus brings it into adlion: In the fame manner, a venereal inflammatory affedlion of the teftis, will in fome conftitutions ter- minate in much mifchief, although in ge- neral its effedls in this way are by no means to be dreaded. I have dwelt longer upon this point than I otherwife fhould have done, from a con- trary doctrine having been ftrenuoufly in- culcated by one whofe authority is defer- vedly great, and whofe obfervation in this difeafe has led to the conclufion he endea- vours to eftablifli*: But as all the expe- rience I have had in thefe matters, has led me to form the opinion here delivered, I * Mr Pott, Treatife on the Hydrocele^ &c. p. 232.510 Of the Sarcocele, Chap. IX. I could not avoid dating it in the manner I have done. In the treatife alluded to, we are told, that a hernia humoralis is never, in any one inftance, produftive of this difeafe. If on this fubje6t Mr Pott’s idea is juft, it ought undoubtedly to be received: But if it is not, it may very certainly do mifchief, by rendering both patients and pradlitioners moreremifs in cafes of farcocele proceeding from this caufe than they othervvife would be; as, by continuing ftill in hopes of a mercurial courfe being able to effedl a cure, they may thereby allow the difeafe to go too far even for extirpation to be advife- able. In every doubtful cafe of this kind, when a venereal infe<f\ion is fufpe<fted as the caufe of the difeafe, blood-letting when the pulfe is full; an open belly; a cooling diet; a horizontal pofture; with a proper fufpenfory bandage; and . a well-dire(5led mercurial courfe, will very commonly remove it. But when 2 mChap. IX. Of the Sarcocele,' 511 in fuch inftances the means recommended are put in pradlice without any evident advantage; and efpecially, if during their application, the diforder, infteadof mend-^ ing, turns gradually worfe ; as Ibon as from its increafe in fize there appears to be any rifk of its advancing beyond the reach of operation, it ought then at all events to he extirpated, whatever the caufe which originally produced it may have been. Among other caufes mentioned by authors as being produdlive of a fcirrhous ftatc of the tefticles, is the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. From quantities of a watery fluid being frequently found in the vagi- nal coat of a fcirrhous tefticle, it has been fuppofed, that the water in fuch cafes was the original caufe of the difeafe in the teftis, and not the confequence of it. There is every reafon, however, to think, that in thefe colledlions of water in the vaginal coat, in which the tefhis is found difeafed, that the hardened ftate of that organ ought to be confidered as the original diforder, and512 Of the Sarcocele, Chap. iXt and not the quantity of water which fur- rounds it. ColIe(5lions of water are no doubt often met with, even in the real farcocele; but this ought to be confidered only as a diffe- rent ftage of the fame difeafe: For altho* the true fcirrhous teflicle is never at firft attended with any collecftion of this na- ture, it is natural to fuppofe, that a hard difeafed ftate of that vifcus, muft have fome influence in producing an alteration in the quantity of fluid with which the tunica vaginalis is always provided in a found'healthy ftate. If it either produces an augmented fecretion, or a diminifhed abforption of that fluid, a dropfical fwell- ing muft be the certain confequence ; ^nd every fuch colledlion, combined with a fcirrhous tefticle, has been very properly termed a hydro-farcoccle. That the teftis, by remaining long im- merfed in the water even of a true hydro- cele, does frequently become fomewhat altered in its texture, there is no reafon to 3 doubt.513 Chap. IX. Of the Sarcocele, doubt. Thus, as we have elfewhere ob- ferved, on laying open the tunica vagi- nalis, the teftis in that diforder is always found to be of a more pale appearance than it naturally ought to be: On fome occafions it is very much diminilhed, and on others conliderably enlarged; but all fiich enlargements, when connected with a real hydrocele, are of a foft harmlefs na- ture, fuch as never give any pain; and in this ftate the teftis ought never to be ex- tirpated. This is a point, we may remark, which it is of fome importance to afcertain : For on the idea of thefe enlargements of the teftes, frequently connected with, and per- haps produced by, their immerlion in the water of a hydrocele, being of a real fcir- rhous nature, their extirpation has been often advifed, and unfortunately too often prat^ifed. In circumfhances of this kind the means of diftindlion between the mild and ma- lignant fpecies of enlarged tefticle, by VoL. I. K k which, Of the Sarcocele. Chap. IXi 5^4 which we fliould in general be direded,; are the following. When the body of the teftis becomes hard and enlarged, previous to any col- lection of water in the tunica vaginalis,' fuch collections as afterwards occur ought not to be confidercd as conltitudng afimple hydrocele j and if, upon evacuating the water by incifion, the teftis, beftdes being enlarged, is found in a hardened ftate, and efpecially if it is attended with pain, and is ulcerated on the furface, extirpation ought undoubtedly to be advifed imme- diately : And,' on the contrary, when the water of a hydrocele is known ta have been collected while the tefticle remained found and of its natural fize, whatever enlargement it ma^ be found to have ac- quired on laying the fac open, if the te- ftis is neither of a fcirrhous hardnefs, nor affected with pain or ulceration, we ought unqueftionabty to proceed as in a cafe of fimple hydrocele ; for any enlargement of this kind will be rarely found to occafiori future uneafinefs, and confequently will feldom or never render extirpation neeeffary. 'X InChap. IX. Of the Sarcocele, 515 111 forming a prognofis of this diforder, different circumftances are to be attended to ; the age, and habit of body, of the pa- tient ; the duration of the difeafe, and the date it is in at the time. Thus, whatever treatriient is to be adopt- ed, more fuccefs my be reafonably ex- pedled in a young healthy conftitution than in the reverfe; particularly if extir- pation of the teftis is to be advifed. In the former, the chance of fuccefs from the operation is eoramonly confiderable, pro- vided the diforder be not too far advanced; whereas in old, infirm people; and in ha- bits attended with pale, wan complexions ; with indlgeflion; and other fymptoms of obdrucfled vifcera; whatever date the difeafe may be in, little or no advantage can be ex- pected to accrue from any operation. With refpecd to the duration of the dif- eafe, if it has already fubfided for a confi- derable time without making much pro- grefs, there will be great reafon to think that it is of a mild nature; and that the fydem, in general, is not-fo much affe^ed K k 2 by516 Of theSarcocele, Chap. IX, by it as if its prdgrefs had been great and rapid ; and laftly, the date of the diforder for the time is of much importance in forming an opinion of its final event. As long as the teflicle is only fomewhat hard and enlarged, without the formation of matter, and without any difeafe of the cordj if the conftitution is otherwife healthy, there will be much reafon to expedl a fa- vourable event frorn any operation that ought to take place. But on the contrary, when the diforder is fo far advanced that collecSlions of mat- ter have formed, either upon the furface of the tefticle, or in its more internal parts, as in that ftate the conftitution will pro- bably have fuffered from abforption, fo there is lefs chance of the operation in thefe circumftances proving fo fuccelsful as in the more early period of the dif- eafe : And this is ftill more remarkably the cafe when the tumor has become ul- cerated externally ; for we know well, that in all fuch cafes, the fyftem is much more apt to fuffer from abforbed matter on the , partsChap. IX. Of the Sarcocele. 517 parts being laid open, than while they re- mained excluded from the external air. In whatever date, however, the tumor may be, there is always reafon to expecfl more fuccefs from the operation while the fpermatic cord is yet found, than when it has become much difeafed ; for, as foon as the cord is materially affecded, the chance of fuccefs from any means to be attempted is always proportionally leflened. The cord, indeed, may towards its under ex- tremity be difeafed, even in the fame manner with the teftis itfelf, without lef- fening the chance of benefit from the ope- ration ; but whenever the diforder has fpread fo far up the fpermatic procefs as to render it doubtful whether the parts affecled can be all removed by the knife or not, and efpecially when it is once ren- dered clear that the cord is difeafed with- in the boundaries of the abdomen, inflead of there being in fuch circumftances any advantage to be expedled from the opera- tion, every attempt towards the removal of the parts below, will for certain tend to K k 3 ag-5i8 OJ the Sarcocele. Chap. IX, aggravate every fymptom, and will be a means therefore of forwarding the patient’s death. Whenever a fcirrhous or cancerous tu- mor is fo fituated as to render its total re- moval by the knife quite praflicable, it ought always to be advifed ; but when the difeafe has advanced fo far as to render this impolTibie, in whatever part of the body it may be fituated, no attempt of this kind ought to be made, the fad; being now clearly afeertained, that cancerous af-? fedions are always rendered worfe by ex- tirpation, when all the difeafed parts can- not be removed. It is of much importance, however, to obferve, that the fpermatic cord is in this diforder frequently affeded with a fulnefs and thicknefs of its parts, produced merely by the weight of the tumor, without be- ing in any other refped difeafed. A ful- nefs of this kind, when no pain occurs in the cord itfelf, and when there are no knots or inequalities upon its furface, ought never to prevent the operation, when in ctlie’”519 Chap. IX. Of the Sarcocele. other refpedls it appears to be neceflary; as a mere enlargement of it very frequently occurs, either from a varicofe ftate of the velfels, or from a watery depolition in the cellular fubftance of the part, when the procefs is not in any other manner dif- eafed*. But on the contrary, when the cord, at the fame time that it has become confiderably enlarged, hard, and knotty, adheres to the neighbouring parts, is pain- ful to the touch, and efpecially if it is al- ready ulcerated; thefe, if the diforder ex- tends over the whole procefs up to the ab- dominal mufcles, are circumftances which, with every prudent pradlitioner, will at all times forbid the operation of caftration. It has indeed been propofed, in fuch a ftate of the cord, to enlarge the opening in the external oblique mufcle, fo as by dif- fedlion to trace the difeafed parts even into K k 4 the * Of what is here inculcated we have fome fmgu- lar proofs in MrPott’s Collection of Cafes, which we have fo often referred to as a depofitaryof ufeful faCts. See Cafes xxxix- xl. xlix. and 1. Treatife on the Hy- drocde.520 of the Sarcocek. Chap. IX. the cavity of the abdomen, with a view to extirpate them entirely. But although the- oretical writers may attempt to amufe their readers with fuch propofals, they will never be ferioufly thought of by pradlitioners- whofe opportunities for obfervation enable them to think and adf for themfelves. We do not think it neceffary to fay any thing, either of the effedl of internal me- dicines, or of external applications, in the removal of this difeafe; for in the real far- cocele, or fcirrhous tefticle, no remedy with which we are acquainted has any ' kind of influence. Even cicuta, the powers, of which are fo much extolled, does not appear to be in any degree ufeful, either in carrying oflp the diforder entirely, or in mitigating any of its fymptoms. The only remedy,therefore,from which we at prefent reafonably expedl any advantage, is the re- moval of the difeafed parts by extirpation; fo that the mofl; important matter to be here determined, is that period of the difeafe in which the operation is molt advifable. We have already obferved, that cafes of fcir-Chap. IX. Of the Sarcocele. 521 feirrhous tefticle do now and then occur with which patients go about for a great length of time with little or no inconve- nience : Such inftances, however, are ex- ceedingly rare ; ’for, by much the greateft proportion of all fuch affedlions, prove to be of a dangerous malignant nature. With refpedl to this point, therefore, we may fliortly determine, that, whenever a feirrhous or hardened ftate of the tefticle does not yield to the means commonly employed, fuch as moderate evacuations of blood when thefe are indicated ; a foft eafy diet; a lax belly; the ufe of a fufpen- fory bandage; and efpecially when mer- cury, which, on the chance of the diforder being venereal, is very commonly tried, are all ufed without any elfedl; we may in fuch circuinftances always have great caufe to fufpetft that the difeafe is of a truly bad nature. When more inveterate fymptoms appear ; when the tumor, which till now was in a hard indolent ftate, becomes pain- ful, and is evidently going on to acquire an additional bulk; no farther delay ought then522 Of the Sarcocele* Chap. IX, then to be advifed: For however improper it would be to remove a hardened teftis, which for a confiderable time had remain- ed indolent, without pain or any increafe in bulk, yet it would be equally unpardon- able in any praditioner to recommend a delay of the operation when matters are fo far changed that the tumor is become pain- ful, and is daily becoming larger. In fuch circumftances, the fooner the difeafed parts are removed, the greater will be the chance of a recovery, and not a day therefore fliould be loft. For whatever may have been the opinion of a few individuals on this point, it has long been a fixed maxim with the moft experienced furgeons, that, in all fcirrhous or cancerous affedions, the rifk of a relapfe after the operation is com- monly in proportion to the duration of the original difeafe The The opinion of the late Mr Sharpe on this point was Angular in a man of fuch extenfive experience. He confidered the rifle of a relapfe after extirpation in cancerous tumors to be greater in the more early pe- riod§ of thefe difeafes, than in their more advanced (fates. Critical Inquiry, 4th edit. p. loS.523 Chap. IX. Of the Sarcoccle^ The extirpation of the teflicle being at lafl; determined upon, the method of per- forming the operation is this: The patient mull; be placed in a horizontal pofture on a table of a convenient height, with his legs hanging down, to be firmly fecured by an afliftant on each fide. The parts being previoufly fhaved, if the tumor is very large, an affiftant muff be employed to fecure it properly; if only, however, of a moderate fize, it is better for the fur- geon to do it himfelf. With one hand, therefore, he ought to grafp the fwelling fo as to keep it firm, and with a fcalpel in the other fhould make an incifion along the whole courfe of it, beginning at lead an inch above the part where the cord is to be cut, and continuing it through the fliin and cellular fubftance to the inferior point of the fcrotum. The eafieft method of doing this, we may obferve, both for the fargeon ai>d patient, is by one continued flroke of the knife; as it is both more quickly and more neatly performed in this manner, than in the ufual way of pinch- ing^24 Of the Sarcocele. Ghap.lX, ing up the fkin between the finger and thuiTilb before cutting it; and there is no kind of difficulty or rifle in doing it in the manner we have here directed. The fpermatic cord being thus laid bare, the furgeon is now with the finger and thumb of one hand to endeavour to fepa- rate the fpermatic arteries and veins from the vas deferens \ which is for the moftpart eafily done, and which ought never to be omitted, for it is in no degree neceffary to include the nerve in the ligature: And this being done, a firm, waxed flat cord, com- pofed of a number of finall threads, is by means of the curved needle, Plate V, fig. 4. to be carried round the blood-vefTels, which are thus to be fecured by a running knot about a quarter of an inch above that part of the cord which is to be di- vided. The cord being at this part cut acrofs, the tefticle is then to be entirely removed by diffedling the cord and it from above downwards, fo as to feparate them as eafily as poffible from the furrounding parts. DifferentChap.IX. Of the Sarcocele, j'25 Bromfield, Vol. L p. 336. Different contrivances have been propofed for facilitating the feparation of the teflis from the contiguous parts ; but no inven- tion with which we are acquainted anfwers this purpofe fo well as a fcalpel. When the difeafed parts are all removed, the knot upon the cord fhould be untied, in order to difcover the fpermatic artery and vein, which by means of the tenacu- lum may generally be feparated from the nerve with which they are in contadl; and whenever this can be done, they ought unqueftionably to be fecured in this man- ner ; for, by including the nerve, no ad- vantage whatever is obtained, and it al- ways renders this a very painful part of the operation, I have feen more pain, in- deed, complained of in tying the fpermatic cord in the ufual way, than I was ever witnefs to in any part of almoft any ope- ration ; fo that whenever the nerve can be feparated from the other parts, as it very commonly with a little attention may be, it ought always to be left out of the ligature^h When *- Vide Chirurgical Cafes and Obfervations, by Mr526 Of the Sarcocele. Chap.IX* When it fo happens, however, that this cannot be done, the ligature muft then be applied in the ordinary manner, and be made to furround the blood-vefTels and nerves indifcriminately; care being taken to make no more prelTure with the knot than is juil neceOTary for preventing any difcharge of blood. We have defired, that in fecuring the divided blood-veffels, both the artery and veins ought to be tied; for if the veins are not included in the ligature, a good deal of blood may be difcharged from them, as they are not furnifhed with fo many valves as the veins of other parts of the body^ The cord paffed at the upper part of the procefs is to be left entirely loofe, and to ferve only as a tourniquet for fecuring the blood-veffels more readily in cafe the liga- tures paffed upon them fliould accidentally flip. There is in fadl no more neceffity for allowing this ligature to remain tied, than there is for leaving a tourniquet firmly applied upon any of the extremities after the operation of amputation; and yet, in- fleadChap. IX. Of the Sarcocele. 527 \ ftead of one ligature of this kind, it has been the pradlice with many, to apply two, about half an inch diflant from one another, by way of very great fecurity; and thefe they leave firmly tied upon the whole fubftance of the cord during the cure of the fore *. There is, however, no kind of neceflity for this precaution, as all manner of rifk may be entirely prevented by fecuring the blood-vefiels in the manner we have here diredled. I have often done the operation in this way^ and I never faw any incon-* venience produced by it. By leaving the ligature at the upper part of the wound Untied, it may be made ufe of to comprefs the cord in the event of the blood-veflels burfting out again: But when the opera- tion is properly done, this is an occurrence that will be very feldom met with; and at any rate, when it does unfortunately happen, it may be always prevented from produ- cing much mifehief by the ligature left for that * Even the late Mr Sharpe gives thefe directions. ‘^eatife on the Operation of Surgery^ loth edit. p. 55,5^8 Of the Sarcocele. Chap. IX. that purpofe, and which may with fafety be removed at the fecond or third dreffing of the fore. In making the ligature of the blood- velTels at the extremity of the cord, if it is neceffary to divide the procefs near to the abdominal mufcles, as there is a poflibility of its retracSling for a fmall fpace fo as to get in within the ring, the ligature ought to be cut of fuch a length as to admit of this; a few inches of it, therefore, fhould be al- ways left hanging over the fore, fo that it may be pulled away at a proper time, in the event of any. retradlion taking place. But we may here obferve, that this re- traflion never happens, when the cord has not been too much feparated from the furrounding parts in endeavouring to introduce the ligature below it. Indeed, no farther feparation fliould be attempted than merely to raife the cord fo far as to get the point of the needle introduced be- tween it and the bone. In profecuting the removal of the tefticle, the fcrotal artery is necefiarily divided, andChap. IX. OftheSarcocele. VoL, I. LI t© it is fomedmes of fuch a fize as to difcharge a great deal of blood; in which cafe it Ihould always, before going farther, be fe- cured by a ligature. The parts being all removed, and the different blood-veffels all fecured as we have here directed, a quantity of foft lint fhould be gently laid into the bottom of the fore; and a comprefs of linen being applied over it, the whole Ihould be fecured either with the T-bandage, or with the fuf- penfory bag ufually employed in affe<5Uons of the fcrotum. The patient being now laid to reft, and an opiate adminiftered, the' fore ought not to be touched till a free fuppuration takes place, which will com- monly be about the fifth or fixth day; and then the drefiings Ihould be removed, and renewed from time to time, once every two days or oftener, according as the quan- tity of matter renders it neceflary. Now and then, after this operation, the patient complains of much pain in the fore, and of tenfionanduneafinefs in the belly; in which event, warm fomentations fhould be appliedOf the Sdreocelc, ChapJX. 53^ fcrotum always to be femoved, p. 55. loc. cit- to the abdomen, and the fore itfelf fhonld be covered with an emollient poultice, to be repeated as often as may be necelfary. In defcribing the manner of performing this operation, we fuppofe it to be done in a cafe where the tefticle has not arrived at any great bulk: In fuch a htuation there is never any good reafon for removing any part of the fcrotum, as has been commonly advifed*; for, if the teguments are not difeafed, or rendered very thin by being much overflretched, they always recover their tone very foon, and fhould not there- fore be removed. But, when the flcin has become very thin and inflamed, and efpecially if any of it is adlually in a date of ulceration, all fuch parts of it ought to be removed along with the tefticle. In fuch circumftances, the beft method of doing it is this : In- ftead of a longitudinal incifion along the courfe of the tefticle, the firft incifion ought to be carried in a ftraight line to the under * Mr Sharpe in fuch cafes advifes a portion of the.531 ^ ‘Chap. IX. Of the Sarcocele. tinder extremity of the fpermatic cord; from whence twofemilunar incifions ought to be continued to the under part of the fcrotum, and fliould be made to include all the parts of the Ikin that are in any degree difeafed. In this fituatlon the remainder of the operation ought to be exadlly the fame as we have already defcribed : The fldn in- cluded by the two femilunar cuts is not to be difledled off, but ought to be removed at once with the difeafed tefticle. CHAP. X. Of the Difeafes of the Penis. SECTION L Of the Phymofs, T'' HE glans penis is naturally provided with a covering termed the preepu- L 1 2 tium;532 Of the Fhymofis, Chap.iX. tium; formed by an elongation and dou- bling of the ikin. This in a healthy ftate is in general of fuch dimenlions as to pafs eafily over the glans, but by difeafe it is frequently prevented from doing fo ; and when the prepuce has got forward, and cannot be drawn back over the glans, the difeafe thereby produced is termed a Phy- mofis. This complaint is induced by whatever tends to fwell the glans, or to excite inflam- mation and flriclure in the preputium; and in fome people, the prepuce is fo tight, as to render them liable to complaints of this nature from very trifling caufes. An exfudation of a whitifli, vifcid matter be- tween the prepuce and glans is natural to many; and the difeafe now under con- fideration, is frequently the eonlequence of want of cleanlinefs, by which this mat- ter is allowed to reft till it becomes acrid ; But the moft frequent caufe of it un- doubtedly is, the application of the vene- real virus to thefe parts, by venereal intef- courfe with difeafed women. In533 Sedl. L Of the Phymojis, LI 3 lancet5 In flight affedions of this kind, efpe- cially when the diforder has not been of long continuance, fomenting the parts fre- quently in any warm emollient decoclion, commonly gives relief; or what anfwers perhaps better for fuch purpofes than any deco(5lion, is warm milk; this, together with the ufe of emollient poultices with a view to relax the conftridled preputium, will often anfwer fo effedlually as to ren- der any other application unneceflfary. At the fame time that fomentations and poultices are applying in this manner ex- ternally, part of the fomentation ought to be injeded from time to time by means of a fyringe between the prepuce and glans, in order to wafh away any matter, either of concealed chancres, or that may be pro- duced merely by the inflammatory affec- tion of the part.' When the parts are much inflamed, blood-letting often proves ferviceable: When the fuperficial veins of the penis can be opened, any blood to be dlfcharged flhiould be taken from one of them by the534 Of the Pbymofs. Chap.X. lancet; but when they do not appear con- fpicuous, difcharging it from the arm will anfwer as well as from any other part: Local blood-letting by means of leeches would ' be here particularly indicated ; but when the diforder has originated from a venereal taint, the bites produced by thefe animals almoft conftantly terminate in troublefome fores. Together with a difcharge of blood proportioned to the ttrength of the patient, gentle laxatives fiould be prefcribed, a low diet, and abflinence from exercife. When, however, it is found that even a due peiTeverance in thefe means has no in- fluence in removing the diforder, and efpe- cially if chancres are confined under the prepuce, which might injure the glans by the matter difcharged from them not get- ting a proper vent, in that cafe it becomes neceffary to remove the ftridlure by an in- cifion carried along , the whole courfe of the preputium. As the fkin of the prepuce is exceedingly lax, it is almoft impoffible to cut it with neatnefs and accuracy in the ordinary way, either' \I. Of the Phymofis, 535 cither by a fcalpel or biftotiry ; and when done in this manner, the fliin yields fo much before the inflrument, as always to render it a very tedious and painful ope- ration ; Neither are the probe-fciiTars well calculated for doing it properly, as the parts are commonly fo thick as to be much brui- fed by the blades of the inflrument. Thefe inconveniences in this operation being exceedingly obvious, many inven- tions have been propofed for effei5ling it more eafily. In Plate XI. is reprefented an inflrument which I had made for this purpofe feveral years ago, and it anfwers the intention very effedlually and with mueh eafe. It confifls of a direcflor with a fmal-l curve at its extremity, to which a fharp- pointed biftoury, with a very narrow blade, is fo exadlly adapted, as to have the cut- ting part of it entirely concealed in the groove of the direcflor, which ought to be about a quarter of an inch longer than the blade of the knife. The knife being inferced into the diree- L 1 4 tor53^ Of the Phymofis. Chap. X, tor fo as to be concealed by it entirely, the infhrument in this ftate is to be infinuated between the prepuce and glans on one fide of the penis, till the direc5lor is found by the finger to have reached the upper end of the preputium. The operator is now to keep the diredlor firm with one hand, and with the other is to pufti the knife for- ward, fo as to make its point pafs through the prepuce; and the dire(5lor being with- .drawn, the operation is finiflied by draw- ing the knife forward fo as to make it di- vide the prepuce through its whole length along the fide of the penis. In this manner the preputium is prefer- ved in atenfe ftate while the divifion is going on, by which means the operation is very eafily accompliflied : And by making the divifion on the fide of the penis, the large veins of the part are avoided, which they could fcarcely be if the operation was done in the back part of it. The prepuce being thus divided, the parts below ought to be bathed with warm water fo as to wafii off effe^ually any acrid matter