77 GENERAL NOTES ON MENUS. find some perishable things going at a cheaper rate than usual, because there happens to be a run on others. In our recipes we have not confined ourselves exclusively to dishes mentioned in the menus, as we thought it well to give our readers more than we could include in the daily fare. ON MEALS IN GENERAL. About *' What to eat, when to eat, and where to eat," much has been written. We have here to deal with only the " what" and " when," as our menus are all for home use. The former query is, we take it, what viands we should choose for the various meals ; the latter, a much more disputed question, namely, when those meals should occur, and of how many they should consist per diem. " What" shall we provide for breakfast, for example for that is a meal that must occur, yet one not fairly treated. There are some people who can always eat the same breakfast, or perhaps hai'e to eat it, not having a choice in the matter. We heard but lately of a young housekeeper whose allowance for housekeeping expenses was a very limited one, who always provides bacon for breakfast, and with it at its present high price we wonder what must be sacrificed at other meals to provide this unvaried luxury. It seems strange that any one can partake of the same thing day after day, not to say foolish not to contrive some of the little dishes that have an almost nominal cost, being made from odds and ends, to make a change, and an economical one. We would advise all young housekeepers to try and make this meal a pleasant and varied one, it being, particularly for a man going to business daily, a most important one. We give recipes for a great many breakfast and supper dishes that can be made with very little expense and trouble, and trust our readers may try them for themselves. Besides the savoury, let there if possible be something in the way of fruit, vegetable, or sweets. Fresh fruit of any kind in summer is delicious at breakfast, and more wholesome then than at any other time. In winter some baked apples, stewed prunes, or figs might take the place of fresh fruit; then a lettuce or some watercress is good for breakfast, and a few hot cakes will be sure to find favour. Give a little time to the arrangement and preparation of breakfast, make