74 GENERAL NOTES ON MENUS. down for pastry or chopped as suet for puddings, and make the rest, neatly cut up small, into a good Irish stew with plenty of potatoes and onions, there will be enough for about eight persons. Again, do we have a couple of pounds of steak to deal with, and put that in a pan and fry it, we shall find it about half the value of the same quantity stewed with vegetables, with the gravy thickened and plenty of it. It depends almost as much upon the mode of cooking as the choice of meat, whether the various parts prove economical or the reverse. It will be noticed in the £i a week menus, that there is but little allowed for what is called, as a rule, a relish for breakfast ; but this is unavoidable. With few exceptions, there is something allow^ed in the way of bacon, eggs, &c., for the working member of the family, presumably the father, but on such limited means it would be absolutely impossible to provide for all in the same manner. In many cases, too, there will be found some scraps that can be utilised, that we cannot reckon upon in our written bill of fare, so that it is scarcely likely that any breakfast table in the menus would be reduced to quite plain bread and butter. If that were the case, it should be rather on a Sunday than any other day, as there is then generally a hot mid-day dinner. Children do not need meat at breakfast, and are quite as well if it does not occur for their dinner once or twice a week ; but adults find it hard to breakfast without something like fish or bacon, particularly if they are going out to work or business. Butter is a very expensive item in housekeeping if it is used at the morning and evening meals, so we note several substitutes equally suitable to the taste of children. Porridge is an excellent food, and a pennyworth is enough for breakfast, and hominy, white oats, farola, &c., young folks enjoy, all these costing less than tea or coffee and bread and butter. When we make but a very small allowance for butter in the list of expenses at the end of the week, it will be seen that porridge, treacle, jam, &c., have been put down to form the breakfasts. In our reckoning of tea and supper as one meal, we think there will be found almost invariably some little dish that would serve for supper, were that to follow an ordinary plain tea and so make two separate meals ; but it would be tedious to repeat day after