GENERAL NOTES ON MENUS. 75 day tea and bread and butter, cake or jam, therefore we have blended the two meals as they are so often in actual fact, as saving of both time and space. We make no mention of any beer or wine in our menus, for the principal reason that where there was but little to spend upon necessaries, there would be none for luxuries such as stimulants. We do not purpose to discuss the question as to whether one is better with or without them, but we may say that for children they are more injurious than beneficial; also that where the expenditure must be so very limited, any extra shilling or two might well be added to the allowance for food. It will be noted in our menus, or rather recipes, that dishes involving, as a rule, very little time or trouble are chosen, for we surmise that in households conducted on principles of the strictest economy there would be no time to spare for very elaborate cookery. Where there was no servant (and but few would keep one if so little could be spared for five persons at or los. a week) the mistress would have all the cooking to do in addition to her other many duties, and would have but little time to spare if the cookery were not of a simple, quickly done kind. Were some of the menus we have now and again submitted to our opinion carried out by one pair of hands, these hands would have scant time for needlework, and their owner very little rest or recreation. Perpetual cooking is not necessary, but the week's menu well planned out, it is very easy to get through a good deal of kitchen work in one day and save firing on others. Say, for example, bread is made at home, a good fire will be needed in the range or stove, and this should serve to cook cakes and pastry for half the week. When cooking is started, say with the household bread, it is easier to go on for a morning at it and feel comparatively free for a day or so than to have to attend to it a little every day. As much as possible shculd be done on Saturdays, for Sunday should not be a hard-working day, and Monday, even without its wash, is generally a busy time, and any- thing we can do to reduce its work may well be got through before the rest of Sunday. We have spoken of the menus of ;£i a week as very difficult to arrange, and we may say here that they are not more troublesome than those for two persons at 6s. per head.