GENERAL NOTES ON MENUS. 79 If tea and supper are blended in what is generally denominated a high tea, to which the father of the family can return, from 6 to 6.30 gives a fair interval between meals. ON MARKETING. French housewives set us a good example in many ways, parti- cularly in that they do their own marketing. We most strongly advocate the principle of going oneself to the shops and buying and paying for things on the spot, and we venture to assert, how- ever honest the tradesfolk may be, that a mistress who as often as need be goes to the various shops and chooses her own goods will save some pounds during the year by not depending solely upon the orders she may give at her door. Specially is this the case with regard to butcher's meat. You may order a small joint, and a large one be sent which is more than you need and more than you can afford, and time will not allow for its being changed ; or, again, the butcher has not the part you order, and sends you something most unsuitable instead. On the other hand, going to the shop yourself, you can pick out exactly what you require, and if you are a regular customer, can have it trimmed of superfluous fat and cut exactly to your order. Fish one should always choose, because it is one of the things that is more to be avoided when not quite fresh than any other; also the prices of it so vary day by day, that unless you see it for yourself it may be found too costly for your purse. To poultry also the latter argument applies. Vegetables and fruit should also be seen before being bought, as they vary in price and very much in quality if not fresh. The two exceptions, as far as tradesfolk are concerned, might be the baker and the milkman, though by buying the former your- self you get full weight ; but we strongly advise our readers to bake their own bread, and they will find a very great saving of money, while the dough comes in so usefully for plain cakes, yeast dumplings, or currant loaves, besides the ordinary bread. Those who can store well should make themselves acquainted with the cheapest markets, and the proper times when stores of those articles that can be preserved, and which are dear at other seasons, should be bought.