GENERAL NOTES ON MENUS. The preceding menus have been compiled with a view of helping those housekeepers who, with but limited incomes, find it difficult to provide the " daily fare." With a liberal allowance at our disposal, it is not at all a difficult thing to arrange a varied and good weekly menu, but when only just enough is to be had for spending upon food, it is no easy matter to make out the bill of fare. One has to think of so many " musts" before one may indulge in the " maybe's," and out of a small weekly sum, when the cost of such necessaries as bread, butter, milk, &c., are reckoned, there seems so very little left for meat, tea, and the like. In the first two menus for each season it will be seen that we only allow £\ per week for five persons, reckoning two young children as one adult, which is just at the rate of 4s. per head, not quite 7d. per day. These have been most difficult bills of fare to plan out, but for that reason they have been of all the most care- fully tested. Many people may cavil at quantities allowed, deeming them inadequate to the number in family, but we must cut our coat according to our cloth," and it is a fact that there are a very large number of housekeepers, neither labourers' nor artisans' wives, who have no more than £\ per week for their allowance for food, and without exceeding it, they must do their best week after week to provide for the wants of their families. It must be seen that the cheaper foods only can occur in a menu of this kind ; and by cheaper we do not mean inferior meat or other comestibles, but those which give the maximum of nourishment with the minimum of cost. Not only must the food be cheap, but its preparation must be that which entails the least loss. Say, for example, we have at our disposal a couple of pounds of best end of the neck or loin of mutton, and we boil that and serve with caper sauce, &c.—what do we get ? At most a dinner for four or five, with, in nine cases out of ten, a good deal of fat wasted. On the other hand, do we remove superfluous fat, to be tried