76 GENERAL NOTES ON MENUS, Only those who have had to plan them out know how far from easy it is to arrange a bill of fare for two, when only a small sum is at our disposal. The perpetual chop or steak soon palls upon one, and the lack of variety in our diet, particularly dinner, in such cases is truly a misfortune. We have tried, in the four menus carried out on this small scale, to show that the said chops and steaks are not inevitable, and that we can live fairly well even on I2S. per week for two. We have in no menu allowed for extra persons as guests, thinking that were any hospitality given, it would also be shown ; therefore a dinner to one or two friends, or a tea to some children, would mean the same returned to us, so that there would be no extra expense. All the menus are planned out for people of ordinary appetites, and we beheve enough and to spare is allowed for them. Bread is allowed in the same quantities to all, and though in many cases, particularly in the country, it would be made at home and cost less, there would most likely be some little items in the expenditure that would be heavier than we have stated, although we have endeavoured throughout the work to hit upon average prices in town and country. In our experience the sum total of our expenditure in food per week is much the same whether we live in London or in a quiet country village ; for though in the latter we may grow our own vegetables with little or no expense, and make our own bread at a cost much below what we should have to pay for it at a baker's, meat is almost always dearer than in town, and fish invariably so. We have often tried the experiment of having chickens and other country produce sent to us in town, but did not find it cheaper than we can buy at our first-rate London markets. We speak of marketing a little later on, of prices and how to shop ; here we need only say that we have, as far as possible, made the cost accurate. The difference notable in the cost of meat in some of the,menus is caused by the fact that those who have but a sovereign a week to spend on food must find out where they can get that, as well as other things, cheaply, and cannot afford to give orders at the door to a butcher. It is a known fact that if we go ourselves to a butcher, or other vendor of fresh provisions, we may generally