78 GENERAL NOTES ON MENUS, the table look nice and have everything to hand—for with business men there is seldom time for waiting at this meal—and do not let it be the hurried, slovenly one it so often is. We come to the consideration of dinner next, for this book does not appeal to that class who take that meal late and therefore require luncheon. And here we may well appeal to our menus to show our readers how on a very small food allowance we manage to make the diet varied. The proverbial cold mutton does not appear day after day till one would be glad to make a change with bread and cheese. It is impossible with small means to have many courses, and sometimes only one need be given, but it is possible to introduce a little fish or soup in place of meat. Tea is a meal about which opinions differ considerably. With children it is more or less bread and butter all the year round, while with adults it may mean literally only a cup of tea with a supper in perspective, but when this supper is only a snack of bread and cheese, a good old-fashioned tea is a very pleasant meal, with a nicely-laid table, cut bread and butter, toast, cake, jam, &c. Supper to the worker in the house is often the pleasantest meal in the day, and only delaying it too long makes it an unwholesome one. Here again we want a little variety, not perpetual cold meat and bread and cheese. In winter, when fires must be kept going during the evening, something hot, such as soup, a mince, or a macaroni cheese, all dishes that cost little, and that can be prepared before- hand, come in well; while in hot weather a nicely-made fish salad or raised pie, neither of which are extravagant, will be found, as a rule, acceptable. Now for the times for meals—and we need but briefly touch upon this subject, as in every household they must be arranged to suit the convenience of the majority or the master of the house. One word of advice we may give with regard to breakfast, and that is, let the hour fixed for it be early enough to enable those to whom it is served to partake of it without the hurry-skurry that is apt to be associated with that meal. Dinner comes in best, as a rule, for children and workers quite in the middle of the day, say one o'clock, for after a tolerably early breakfast people are ready for it by that time.