H. W. Conn. K27124EX B IBLIOTHE CA CAR. 1. TABORIS. 22102075133K27124 MedTHE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM.Zbc Xlbrar^ of TUseful Stories* PRlCEi.ONE jSHILLING ;EACH. By By THE STORY OF ICE, in the Present and Past. W. A. Brend. With 37 Illustrations. THE STORY OF ECLIPSES. By G. F- Chambers, F. R.A.S. With 19 Illustrations. THE STORY OF THE BRITISH RACE. By John Munro. With 4 Maps. THE STORY OF THE MIND. By Prof. J. M. Baldwin. THE STORY OF GEOGRAPHICAL DISCOVERY: How the World Became Known. By Joseph Jacobs. With 24 Maps, etc. THE STORY OF THE COTTON PLANT. By F. Wil- kinson, F.G.S. With 38 Illustrations. THE STORY OF RELIGIONS. By the Rev E. D. Price, F.G.S. THE STORY OF PHOTOGRAPHY. By A. T. Story. With 38 Illustrations. THE STORY OF LIFE IN THE SEAS. By Sydney T. Hickson, F.R.S. With 42 Illustrations. THE STORY OF THE BRITISH COINAGE. G. B. Rawlings. With 108 Illustrations. THE STORY OF THE POTTER. By C. F. Binns. With 57 Illustrations of Ancient and Modern Pottery. THE STORY OF GERM LIFE: BACTERIA. By H. W. Conn. With 34 Illustrations. THE STORY OF THE EARTH’S ATMOSPHERE. By Douglas Archibald. With 44 Illustrations. THE STORY OP THE WEATHER. By G. F. Cham- bers. F.R.A.S. With 50 Illustrations. THE STORY OP FOREST AND STREAM. By James Rodway, F.L.S. With 27 Illustrations. THE STORY OF THE CHEMICAL ELEMENTS. By M. M. Patthon Muir, M.A. THE STORY OF EXTINCT CIVILIZATIONS OF THE EAST. By R. E. Anderson, M.A. With Maps. THE STORY OF ELECTRICITY. By J. Munro. With 100 Illustrations. THE STORY OF A PIECE OF COAL. By E A. Martin, F.G.S. With 38 Illustrations. THE STOrV of the SOLAR SYSTEM. By G. Chambers, F.R.A.S. With 28 Illustrations. THE STORY OF THE EARTH IN PAST AGES. H. G. Seeley, F.R.S. With 40 Illustrations. THE STORY OF THE PLANTS. By Grant Allen. With 40 Illustrations. THE STORY OF PRIMITIVE MAN. By Edward Clodd. With 88 Illustrations. THE STORY OF THE STARS. By G. F. Chambers, F.R.A.S. With 24 Illustrations. *** Other Volumes in the Press. F. By London ; GEORGE NEWNES Limited.THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHAmSM A REVIEW OF THE CONCLUSIONS OP MODERN BIOLOGY IN REGARD TO THE MECHANISM WHICH CONTROLS THE PHENOMENA OF LIVING ACTIVITY BY H. W. CONN Author of “ The Story of Qerm Life," etc. WITH FIFTY ILLUSTRATIONS LONDON GEORGE NEWNES, LIMITED SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND 1899WELLCOME INSiilurE LIBRARY Coll. welMOrnec Cali No. f< Z *7/ *2: y.PEEFACE. That the living body is a machine is a statement that is frequently made without any very accu- rate idea as to what it means. On the one hand it is made with a belief that a strict comparison can be made between the body and an ordinary, artificial machine, and that living beings are thus reduced to simple mechanisms; on the other hand it is made loosely, without any special thought as to its significance, and cer- tainly with no conception that it reduces life to a mechanism. The conclusion that the living body is a machine, involving as it does a mechan- ical conception of life, is one of most extreme philosophical importance, and no one interested in the philosophical conception of nature can fail to have an interest in this problem of the strict accuracy of the statement that the body is a machine. Doubtless the complete story of the “living machine” can not yet be told; but the studies of the last fifty years have brought 6 us so6 PREFACE. far along the road toward its completion that a review of the progress made and a glance at the yet unexplored realms and unanswered questions will be profitable. For this purpose this work is designed, with the hope that it may give a clear idea of the trend of recent biological science and of the advances made toward the solution of the problem of life. But the limitations of science are indicated in the concluding General Summary.7 CONTENTS. PAGE Introduction — Biology a new science — Historical biology — Conservation of energy—Evolution—Cytology—New aspects of biology—The mechanical nature of living organisms—Signifi- cance of the new biological problems—Outline of the subject. 9 PART I. TEE RUNNING OF THE LIVING MACHINE. CHAPTER I.—Is THE Body a Machine? What is a machine? — A general comparison of a body and a machine — Details of the action of the machine — Physical explanation of the chief vital functions—The living body is a machine—The living machine constructive as well as destruc- tive—The vital factor . . . . . .29 CHAPTER II.—The Cell and Protoplasm. Vital properties—The discovery of cells—The cell doctrine—The cell—^The cellular structure of organisms—The cell wall— Protoplasm—The reign of protoplasm—The decline of the reign of protoplasm—The structure of protopla.sm—The nucleus— Centrosome—Function of the nucleus—Cell division or karyoki- nesis—Fertilization of the egg—The significance of fertilization —What is protoplasm?—Reaction against the cell doctrine— Fundamental vital activiti( s as located in cells—Summary . 68 PART II. THE BUILDING OF THE LIVING MACHINE. CHAPTER III. — The Factors concerned in the Building of the Living Machine. History of the living machine—Evidence for this history—His- torical— Embryological — Anatomical — Significance of th^se sources of history—Forces at work in the building of the living machine— Reproduction — Heredity — Variatit-n—Inheritance of variations—Method of machine building—Migration and Isolation—Direct influence of environment—Consciousness— Summary of Nature's power of building machines—The origin of the cell machine—General summary .... 1528 LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS FIGUEE • PAGE 1. Figure illustrating osmosis . , , . .41 2. Figure illustrating osmosis . . . . .42 3. Diagram of the intestinal walls . . . .43 4. Diagram of a single villus . . . . .44 5. Enlarged figure of four cells in the villus membrane . 44 6. A bit of muscle showing blood-vessels . . .49 7. A bit of bark showing cellular structure . . .75 8. Successive stages in the division of the developing egg . 78 9. A typical cell ....... 80 10. Cells at a root tip ...... 81 11. Section of a leaf showing cells of diflferent shapes . . 81 12. Plant cells with thick walls, from a fern . . .82 13. Section of potato ...... 82 14. Various shaped wood cells from plant tissue . . . 83 15. A bit of cartilage ...... 83 16. Frogs’ blood ....... 84 17. A bit of bone ........ 84 18. Connective tissue ...... 85 19. A piece of nerve fibre ...... 85 20. A muscle fibre ....... 86 21. A complex cell, vorticella ..... 87 22. Amoeba ........ 89 23. A cell as it appears to the modern microscope . . 103 24. A cell cut into pieces, each containing a bit of nucleus . 107 25. A cell cut in pieces, only one of which contains any nucleus 108 26. Different forms of nucleii ..... Ill 27 and 28. Two stages in cell division .... 115 29 and 30. Stages in cell division . . . . .116 31 and 32. Latest stages in cell division .... 118 33. An egg ........ 122 34 and 35. Stages in the process of fertilization of the egg . 123 36 and 37. Stages in the process of fertilization of the egg . 124 38, 39, and 40. Stages in fertilization of the egg , . , 125 41 and 42. Latest stages in the fertilization of the egg . . 128 43 and 44. Two stages in the division of the egg . . . 130 45. A group of cells resulting from division, the first step in machine building ...... 156 46. A later step in machine building, the gastrula . , 157 47. The arm of a monkey ...... 167 48. The arm of a bird ...... 167 49. The arm of an ancient half-bird, half-reptile animal . . 167 60. Diagram to illustrate the principle of heredity . , 179THE STORY OE 9 LIFE’S MECHANISM. INTRODUCTION. BIOLOGY A NEW SCIENCE. In recent years biology has been spoken of as a new science. Thirty years ago departments of biology were practically unknown in educa- tional institutions. To-day none of our higher institutions of learning considers itself equipped without such a department. This seems to be somewhat strange. Biology is simply the study of living things; and living nature has been studied as long as mankind has studied anything. Even Aristotle, four hundred years before Christ, classified living things. From this foundation down through the centuries living phenomena have received constant attention. Recent cen- turies have paid more attention to living things than to any other objects in nature. Linnaeus erected his systems of classification before modern chemistry came into existence; the systematic study of zoology antedated that of physics; and long before geology had been conceived in its modern form, the animal and vegetable kingdoms10 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. had been comprehended in a scientific system. How, then, can biology be called a new science when it is older than all the others There must be some reason why this, the oldest of all, has been recently called a new science, and some explanation of the fact that it has only recently advanced to form a distinct department in our educational system. The reason is not difficult to find. Biology is a new science, not because the objects it studies are new, but because it has adopted a new relation to those objects and is studying them from a new standpoint. Animals and plants have been studied long enough, but not as we now study them. Perhaps the new attitude adopted toward living nature may be tersely expressed by saying, that in the past it has been studied as at rest, while to-day it is studied as in motion. The older zoologists and botanists confined themselves largely to the study of animals and plants simply as so many museum specimens to be arranged on shelves with appropriate names. The modern biologist is studying these same objects as in- tensely active beings and as parts of an ever- changing history. To the student of natural history fifty years ago, animals and plants were objects to be classified; to the biologist of to-day, they are objects to be explained. To understand this new attitude, a brief review of the history of the fundamental features of philosophical thought will be necessary. When, long ago, man began to think upon the pheno- mena of nature, he was able to understand almost nothing. In his inability to comprehend the11 INTRODUCTION. : activities going on around him he came to regard ! the forces of nature as manifestations of some \ supernatural beings. This was eminently natural, i He had a direct consciousness of his own power I to act, and it was natural for him to assume that I the activities going on around him were caused I by similar powers on the part of some being like I himself, only superior to him. Thus he came to I fill the unseen universe with gods.controlling the I forces of nature. The wind was the breath of one god, and the lightning a bolt thrown from the hands of another. With advancing thought the ideas of polythe- ism later gave place to the nobler conception of monotheism. JBut for a long time yet the same ideas of the supernatural, as related to the natural, retained their place in man’s philosophy. Those phenomena which he thought he could understand were looked upon as natural, while those which he could not understand were looked upon as supernatural, and as produced by the direct personal activity of some divine agency. As the centuries passed, and man’s power of ob- servation became keener and his thinking more logical, many of the hitherto mysterious pheno- mena became intelligible and subject to simple explanations. As fast as this occurred these phenomena were unconsciously taken from the realm of the supernatural and placed among natural phenomena which could be explained by natural Jaws. Among the first mysteries to be thus comprehended by natural law were those of astronomy. The complicated and yet harmonious motions of the heavenly bodies had hitherto been12 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. inexplicable. To explain them many a sublime conception of almighty power had arisen, and the study of the heavenly bodies ever gave rise to the highest thoughts of Deity. But Newton’s law of gravitation reduced the whole to'the greatest simplicity. Through the law and force of gravi- tation these mysteries were brought within the grasp of human understanding. They ceased to be looked upon.longer as supernatural, and became natural phenomena so soon as the force of gravi- tation was accepted as a part of nature. In other branches of natural phenomena the same history followed. The forces and laws of chemical affinity were formulated and studied, and physical laws and forces were comprehended. As these natural forces were grasped it became, little by little, evident that the various pheno- mena of nature were simply the result of nature’s forces acting in accordance with nature’s laws. Phenomena hitherto mysterious were one after another brought within the realm of law, and as this occurred a smaller and smaller portion of them were left within the realm of the so-called supernatural. By the middle of this century this advance had reached a point where scientists, at least, were ready to believe that nature’s forces were all-powerful to account for nature’s phe- nomena. Science had passed from the reign of mysticism to the reign of law. But after chemistry and physics, with all the forces that they could muster, had exhausted their powers in explaining natural phenomena, there apparently remained one class of facts which was still left in the realm of the supernaturalI INTRODUCTION. 13 I and the unexplained. The phenomena associated j with living things remained nearly as mysterious i as ever. Life appeared to be the most inex- 1 plicable phenomenon of nature, and none of the : forces and laws which had been found sufficient to • account for other departments of nature appeared j to have much influence in rendering intelligible I the phenomena of life. Living organisms appeared ) to be actuated by an entirely unique force. Their I shapes and structures showed so many marvellous I adaptations to their surroundings as to render it I apparently certain that their adjustment must j have been the result of some intelligent planning, i and not the outcome of blind force. Who could ] look upon the adaptation of the eye to light < without seeing in it the result of intelligent I design I Adaptation to conditions is seen in all animals and plants. These organisms are evi- I dently complicated machines with their parts I intricately adapted to each other and to sur- ^ rounding conditions. Apart from animals and j plants the only other similarly adjusted machines are those which have been made by human in- telligence ; and the inference seemed to be clear that a similar intelligence was needed to account for the living machine. The blind action of physical forces seemed inadequate. Thus the phenomena of life, which had been studied longer than any other phase of nature, continued to stand aloof from the rest and refused to fall into line with the general drift of thought. The living world seemed to give no promise of being included among natural phenomena, but still persisted in retaining its supernatural aspect.14 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. It is the attempt to explain the phenomena of the living world by the same kind of natural forces that have been adequate to account for other phenomena, that has created modern Biology. So long as students simply studied animals and plants as objects for classification, as museum objects, or as objects which had been stationary in the history of nature, so long were they simply following along the same lines in which their predecessors had been travelling. But when once they began to ask if living nature were not perhaps subject to an intelligent ex- planation, to study living things as part of a general history, and to look upon them as active moving objects whose motion and whose history might perhaps be accounted for, then at once was created a new department of thought and a new science inaugurated. HISTORICAL GEOLOGY. Preparation had been made for this new method of studying life by the formulation of a number of important scientific discoveries. Prominent among these stood historical geology. That the earth had left a record of her history in the rocks in language plain enough to be read appears to have been impressed upon scientists in the last of the century. That the earth has had a history, and that man could read it, became more and more thoroughly understood as the first decades of this century passed. The reading of that history proved a somewhat difficult task. It was written in a strange language, and itINTRODUCTION. 15 required many years to discover the key to the record. But under the influence of the writings of Lyell, just before the middle of the century, it ■ began to appear that the key to this language is to be found by simply opening the eyes and observing what is going on around us to-day. A more extraordinary and more important dis- I covery has hardly ever been made, for it con- tained the foundation of nearly all scientific discoveries which have been made since. This : discovery proclaimed that an application of the : forces still at work to-day on the earth’s surface, I but continued throughout long ages, will furnish . the interpretation of the history written in the I rocks, and thus an explanation of the history of the earth itself. The slow elevation of the i earth’s crust, such as is still going on to-day, would, if continued, produce mountains ; and the washing away of the land by rains and floods, such as we see all around us, would, if continued through the long centuries, produce the valleys and gorges which so astound us. The explanation of the past is to be found in the present. But this geological history told of a history of life as well as a history of rocks. The history of the rocks has indeed been bound up in the history of life, and no sooner did it appear that the earth’s crust has had a readable history than it appeared that living nature had a parallel history. If the present is a key to the past in interpreting geo- logical history, should not the same be true of this history of life h It was inevitable that pro- blems of life should come to the front, and that the study of life from the dynamical standpoint.16 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. rather^ than a statical, should ensue. Modern biology was the child of historical geology. But historical geology alone could never have ■ led to the dynamical phase of modern biology. Three other conceptions have contributed in an even greater degree to the development of this; science. CONSERVATION OF ENERGY. The first of these was the doctrine of conserva- tion of energy and the correlation of forces. This; doctrine is really quite simple, and may be out- ■ lined as follows : In the universe, as we know it,, there exists a certain amount of energy or power • of doing work. This amount of energy cam neither be increased nor decreased; energy cam no more be created or destroyed than matter. It exists, however, in a variety of forms, which may' be either active or passive. In the active state it takes some form of motion. The various forces > which we recognize in nature—heat, light, elec-- tricity, chemism, etc. — are simply forms of: motion, and thus forms of this energy. These various types of energy, being only expressions j of the universal energy, are convertible into eachi other in such a way that when one disappears- another appears. A cannon ball flying through the air exhibits energy of motion ; but it strikes^ an obstacle and stops. The motion has appar- ently stopped, but an examination shows thatt this is not the case. The cannon ball and the object it strikes have been heated, and thus the motion of the ball has simply been transformed! into a difterent form of motion, which we call'INTRODUCTION. 17 heat. Or, again, the heat set free under the locomotive boiler is converted by machinery into the motion of the locomotive. By still different mechanism it may be converted into electric force. All forms of motion are readily con- vertible into each other, and each form in which energy appears is only a phase of the total energy of nature. A second condition of energy is energy at rest, or potential enei-gy. A stone on the roof of a house is at rest, but by virtue of its position it has a certain amount of potential energy, since, if dislodged, it will fall to the ground, and thus de- velop energy of motion. Moreover, it required to raise the stone to the roof the expenditure of an amount of.energy exactly equal to that which will reappear if the stone is allowed to fall to the ground. So in a chemical molecule, like fat, there is a store of potential energy which may be made active by simply breaking the molecule to pieces and setting it free. This occurs when the fat burns and the energy is liberated as heat. But it required at some time the expenditure of an equal amount of energy to make the molecule. When the molecule ol fat was built in the plant which produced it, there was used in its construction an amount of solar energy exactly equivalent to the energy which may be liberated by breaking the molecule to pieces. The total sum of the active and potential energy in the universe is thus at all times the same. ^ This magnificent conception has become the cornerstone of modern science. As soon as conceived it brought at once within its grasp B18 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. all forms of energy in nature. It is primarily a physical doctrine, and has been developed chiefly in connection with the physical sciences. But it shows at once a possible connec^on between living and non-living nature. The living organism also exhibits motion and heat, and, if the doctrine of the conservation of energy be true, this energy must be correlated with other forms of energy. Here is a sugges- tion that the same laws control the living and the non-living world ; and a suspicion tlmt if we can find a natural explanation of the burn- inf^ of a piece of coal and the motion ot a locomotive, so, too, we may find a natural explanation of the motion of a living machine. EVOLUTION. A second conception, whose influence upon the development of biology was even greater, was the doctrine of evolution. It is true that the doctrine of evolution was no new doctiine with the middle of this century, for it had been conceived somewhat vaguely before. But until historical geology had been formulated, and until the idea of the unity of nature had dawned upon the minds of scientists, the doctrine of evolution had little significance. It made little difference in our philosophy whether the living organisms were regarded as independent creations or as descended from each other, so long as they were looked upon as a distinct realm of nature without connection with the rest of nature’s activity. If they are distinct19 INTRODUCTION. ! from the rest of nature, and therefore require a 5 distinct origin, it makes little difference whether I we looked upon that origin as a single originat- i ing point or as thousands of independent crea- I tions. But so soon as it appeared that the I present condition of the earth’s crust was formed [ by the action of forces still in existence, and so [ soon as it appeared that the forces outside of ^ living forces, including astronomical, physical 3 and chemical forces, are all correlated with I each other as parts of the same store of energy, [ then the problem of the origin of living things I assumed a new meaning. Living things became I then a part of nature, and demanded to be in- I eluded in the same general category. The reign of law, which was claiming that all nature’s t phenomena are the result of natural rather than ii supernatural powers, demanded some explanation , ^ the origin of living things. Consequently, when I Darwin pointed out a possible way in which living I phenomena could thus be included in the realm of j natural law, science was ready and anxious to re- [ ceive his explanation. CYTOLOGY. A third conception which contributed to the formulation of modern biology was derived from the facts discovered in connection with the organic cell and protoplasm. The significance of these facts we shall notice later, but here we may simply state that these discoveries offered to students simidicity in the place of complexity, ihe doctrine of cells and protoplasm appeared20 THE STORY OE LIFE’S MECHANISM. to offer to biologists no longer the complicated problems which were associated with animals and plants, but the same problems stripped of all side issues and reduced to their lowest terms. This simplifying of the problems proved to be an extraordinary stimulus to the students who were trying to find some way of understanding life. NEW ASPECTS OF BIOLOGY. These three conceptions seized hold of the scientific world at periods not very distant from each other, and their influence upon the study of living nature was immediate and extraordinary. Living things now came to be looked upon not simply as objects to be catalogued, but as objects which had a history, and a history which was of interest not merely in itself, but as a part of a general plan. They were no longer studied as stationary, but as moving phases of_ nature. Animals were no longer looked upon simply as beings now existing, but as the results^ of the actio^ of past forces and as the foundation of a different series of beings in the future. The pre- sent existing animals and plants came to be re- garded simirly as a step in the long history of the universe. It appeared at once that the study of the present forms of life would offer us a iireaiis of interpreting the past and perhaps predicting the future. , i In a short time the entire attitude which the student assumed toward living phenomena had changed. Biological science assumed new guises21 INTRODUCTION. 1 and adopted new methods. Even the problems which it tried to solve were radically changed. 1 Hitherto the attempt had been made to find in- stances of puiyose in nature. The marvellous adaptations of living beings to their conditions had long been felt, and the study of the purposes 1 of these adaptations had inspired many a mag- i nificent conception. But now the scientist lost sight of the purpose in hunting for the cause. Natural law is blind and can have no purpose. To the scientist, filled with the thought of the reign of law, purpose could not exist in nature. Only cause and effect appeal to him. The present 1 phenomena are the result of forces acting in the past, and the scientist’s search should be not for the purpose of an adaptation, but for the action of the forces which produced it. To discover the forces and laws which led to the development of I the present forms of animals and plants, to ex- plain the method by which these forces of nature have acted to bring about present results, these became the objects of scientific research. It no 1 longer had any meaning to find that a special organ was adapted to its conditions ; but it was i necessary to find out how it became adapted. The difference in the attitude of these two points I of view is world-wide. The former fixes the - attention upon the end, the latter upon the means ; by which the end was attained; the former is ' what we sometimes call teleological, the latter i scientific; the former was the attitude of the study I of animals and plants before the middle of this i century, the latter the spirit which actuates I modern biology.22 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. THE MECHANICAL NATURE OF LIVING ORGANISMS. This new attitude forced many new problems to the front. Foremost among them and funda- mental to them all were the questions as to the mechanical nature of living organisms. The law of the correlation of force told that the various forms of energy which appear around us light, heat, electricity, etc.—are all parts of one common store of energy and convertible into each other. The question whether vital energy is in like manner correlated with other forms of energy was now extremely significant. Living forces had been considered as standing apart from the rest of nature. Vital force, or vitality, had been thought of as something distinct in itself; and that there was any measurable relation between the powers of the living organism and the forces of heat and chemical affinity was of course unthinkable be- fore the formulation of the doctrine of the cor- relation of forces. But as soon as that doctrine was understood it began to appear at once that, to a certain extent at least, the living body might be compared to a machine whose function is simply to convert one kind of energy into another. A steam engine is fed with fuel. In that fuel is a store of energy deposited there perhaps centuries ago. The rays of the sun shining on the world in earlier ages, were seized upon by the growing plants and stored away in a potential form in the wood which later became coal. This coal is placed in the furnace of the steam engine and is broken to pieces so that itINTRODUCTION. 23 can no longer hold its store of energy, which is at once liberated in its active form as heat. The engine then takes the energy thus liberated, and as a result of its peculiar mechanism converts it into the motion of its great fly-wheel. With this notion clearly in mind the question forces itself to the front whether the same facts are not true of the living animal organism. It, too, is fed with food containing a store of energy; and should we not regard it, like the steam engine, simply a machine for converting this potential energy into motion, heat, or some other active form ? This problem of the correlation of vital and physical forces is inevitably forced upon us with the doctrine of the correlation of forces. Plainly, however, such questions were incon- ceivable before about the middle of the present century. This mechanical conception of living activity was carried even farther. Under the lead of Huxley there arose in the seventh decade of the century a view of life which reduced it to a pure mechanism. The microscope had, at that time, just disclosed the universal presence in living things of that wonderful substance, protoplasm. This material appeared to be a homogeneous substance, and a chemical study showed it to be made of chemical elements united in such a way as to show close relation to albumens. It appeared to be somewhat more complex than ordinary albumen, but it was looked upon as a definite chemical compound, or, perhaps, as a simple mixture of compounds. Chemists had shown that the properties of compounds vary with their24 THE STOilY OF LIFERS MECHANISM. composition, and that the more complex the compound the more varied its properties. It was a natural conception, therefore, that proto- plasm was a complex chemical compound, and that its vital properties were simply the chemical properties resulting from its composition. Just as water possesses the power of becoming solid at certain temperatures, so protoplasm possesses the power of assimilating food and growing ; and, since we do not doubt that the properties of water are the result of its chemical composition, so we may also assume that the vital properties of protoplasm are the result of its chemical com- position. It followed from this conclusion that if chemists ever succeeded in manufacturing the chemical compound, protoplasm, it would be alive. Vital phenomena were thus reduced to chemical and mechanical problems. These ideas arose shortly after the middle of the century, and have dominated the development of biological science up to the present time. It is evident that the aim of biological study must be to test these conceptions and carry them out into details. The chemical and mechanical la^ys of nature must be applied to vital phenomena in order to see whether they can furnish a satisfac- tory explanation of life. Are the laws and forces of chemistry sufficient to explain digestion 'i Are the laws of electricity applicable to an under- standing of nervous phenomena ? Are physical and chemical forces together sufficient to explain life 1 Can the animal body be properly regarded as a machine controlled by mechanical laws ? Or, on the other hand, are there some phases of life25 INTRODUCTION. which the forces of chemistry and physics cannot account for ? Are there limits to the application of natural law to explain life ? Can there be found something connected with living beings which is force but not correlated with the ordinary forms of energy 1 Is there such a thing as vital energy, or is the so-called vital force simply a name which we have given to the peculiar mani- festations of ordinary energy as shown in the substance protoplasm ? These are some of the questions that modern biology is trying to answer, and it is the existence of such questions which has made modern biology a new science. Such questions not only did not, but could not, have arisen before the doctrines of the conser- vation of energy and evolution had made their impression upon the thought of the world. SIGNIFICANCE OF THE NEW BIOLOGICAL PROBLEMS. It is further evident that the answers to these questions will have a significance reaching beyond the domain of biology proper and affecting the fundamental philosophy of nature. The answer will determine whether or not w^e can accept in entirety the doctrines of the conservation of energy and evolution. Plainly if it should be found that the energy of animate nature was not correlated with other forms of energy, this would demand either a rejection or a complete modifi- cation of our doctrine of the conservation of energy. If an animal can create any energy within itself, or can destroy any energy, we can no longer regard the amount of energy of the26 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. universe as constant. Even if that subtile form of force which we call nervous energy should prove to be uncorrelated with other forms of energy, the idea of the conservation of energy must be changed. It is even possible that we must insist that the still more subtile form of force, mental force, must be brought within the scope of this great law in order that it be im- plicitly accepted. This law has proved itself strictly applicable to the inanimate world, and has then thrust upon us the various questions in regard to vital force, and we must recognise that the real significance of this great law must rest upon the possibility of its application to vital j phenomena. No less intimate is the relation of these pro- blems to the doctrine of evolution. Evolution tries to account for each moment in the history of the world as the result of the conditions of the moment before. Such a theory loses its meaning unless it can be shown that natural forces are sufficient to account for living phenomena. If the supernatural must be brought in here and there | to account for living phenomena, then evolution ; ceases to have much meaning. It is undoubtedly i a fact that the rapidly developing ideas along the above mentioned lines of dynamical biology have been potent factors in bringing about the adop- tion of evolution. Certain it is that, had it been found that no correlation could be traced i between vital and non-vital forces, the doctrine of evolution could not have stood, and even now the special significance which we shall in the end give to evolution will depend upon how we sue-INTRODUCTION. 27 I ceed in answering the questions above outlined. The fact is that this problem of the mechanical explanation of vital phenomena forms the cap- ! stone of the arch, the sides of which are built of i the doctrines of the conservation of energy and : the theory of evolution. To the presentation of i these problems the following pages will be de- voted. The fact that both the doctrine of the ' conservation of energy and that of evolution are practically everywhere accepted indicates that the mechanical nature of vital forces is regarded as proved. But there are still many questions which are not so easily answered. It will be our purpose in the following discussion to ascer- tain just what are these problems in dynamical biology and how far they have been answered. Our object will be then in brief to discover to what extent the conception of the living organism as a machine is borne out by the facts which have been collected in the last quarter century, and to learn where, if anywhere, limits have been found to our possibility of applying the forces of chemistry and physics to an explanation of life. In other words, we shall try to see how far we have been able to understand living phenomena in terms of natural force. OUTLINE OF THE SUBJECT. • The subject, as thus presented, resolves itself at once into two parts. That the living organism is a machine is everywhere recognised, although some may still doubt as to the completeness of the comparison. In the attempt to explain the28 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. phenomena of life we have two entirely different problems. The first is manifestly to account for the existence of this machine, for such a com- ^ pleted piece of mechanism as a man^ or a tree cannot be explained as a result of simple acci- | dent, as the existence of a rough piece of rock | might be explained. Its intricacy of parts and their purposeful interrelation demands explana- tion, and therefore the fundamental problem is to explain how this machine came into existence. The second problem is simpler, for it is simply to explain the running of the machine after it is made. If the organism is really a machine, we ought to be able to find some way of explaining its actions as we can those of a steani engine. Of these two problems the first is the more fundamental, for if we fail to find an explana- tion for the existence of the machine, our ex- planation of its method of action is only partly satisfactory. But the second question is the simpler, and must be answered first. ^Ve cannot hope to explain the more puzzling matter of the origin of the machioe unless we can fiist under- stand how it acts. In our treatment of the sub- ject, therefore, we shall divide it into two parts: I. The Running of the Living Machine. II. The Origin of the Living Machine.29 PAET I. THE RUNNING OF THE LIVING MACHINE. CHAPTER I. IS THE BODY A MACHINE ? The problem before us in this section is to find out to what extent animals and plants are machines. We wish to determine whether the laws and forces which regulate their activities are the same as the laws and forces with which we experiment in the chemical and physical laboratory, and whether the principles of mechanics and the doctrine of the conserva- tion of energy apply equally well in the living machine and the steam engine. It might he inferred that the proper method of study would be to confine our attention largely to the simplest forms of life, since the problems would be here less complicated, and iherefore of easier solution. This, however, has not been nor can it be the method of study. Our knowledge of the processes of life has been derived largely from the most rather than the least complex forms. We have a better knowledge of the30 THE STORY OF LIFE'S MECHANISM. physiology of man and his allies than any other animals. The reason for this is plain enough. In the first place, there is a value in the knowledge of the life activities of man entirely apart from any theoretical aspects, and hence human physiology has demanded atten- tion for its own sake. The practical utility of human physiology has stimulated its study for centuries*; and in the last fifty years of scien- tific progress it has been human physiology and that of allied animals that has attracted the chief attention of physiologists. The result is that while the physiology of man is tolerably well known, that of other animals is less under- stood the further we get away from man and his allies. For this reason most of our knowledge of the living body as a machine must he derived from the study of man. This is, how- ever, fortunate rather than otherwise. In the ' first place, it enables us to proceed from the ! known to the unknown; and in the second place, more interest attaches to the problem as connected with human physiology than along any other line. In our discussion, therefore, we shall refer chiefly to the physiology of man. If we find that the functions of human life are amenable to a mechanical explanation we cannot hesitate to believe that this will be equally true of the lower orders of nature. For similar reasons little reference will be made to the mechanism of plant life. The structure of the plant is simpler and its activities are much more easily referable to mechanical principles than are those of animals. For these reasons it will31 IS THE BODY A MACHINE ? only be necessary for us to turn our attention to the life activities of the higher animals. WHAT IS A MACHINE? Turning now to our more immediate subject of the accuracy of the statement that the body is a machine, we must first ask what is meant by a machine ? A brief definition of a machine might be as follows : A machine is a piece of apparatus so designed that it can change one kind of energy into another for a definite purpose. Energy, as already noticed, is the power of doing work, and its ordinary active forms are heat, motion, electricity, light, etc.; but it may be ill a passive or potential form, and in this form stored within a chemical molecule. These various forms of energy are readily convertible into each other; and any form of apparatus designed for the purpose of producing such a conversion is called a machine. A dynamo is thus a machine so adjusted that when mechanical motion is supplied to it the energy of motion is converted into electricity; while an electromotor, on the other hand, is a piece of apparatus so de- signed that when electricity is applied to it, it is converted into motion. A steam engine, again, is designed to convert potential or passive energy into active energy. Potential energy in the form of chemical composition (coal) is supplied to the engine, and this energy is first liberated in the active form of heat and then is converted into the motion of the great fly-wheel. In all these cases there is no energy or power created, for32 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. the machine must be always supplied with an amount of energy equal to that which it gives back in another form. Indeed, a larger amount of energy must be furiiished the machine than is expected back, for there is always an actual loss of available energy. In the process of the con- version of one form of energy into another some of the energy, from friction or other cause, takes the form of heat, and is then radiated into space beyond our reach. It is, of course, not destroyed, for energy cannot be destroyed j but it has as- sumed a form called radiant heat, which is not available for our uses. A machine thus neither creates nor destroys energy. It receives it in one form and gives it back in another form, with an inevitable loss of a portion of the energy as radiant heat. With this understanding, we may now ask if the living body can be properly compared with a machine. A GENERAL COMPARISON OF A BODY AND A MACHINE. That the living body exhibits the ordinary types of energy is of course clear enough when we remember that it is always in motion and is always radiating heat—two of the most common types of physical energy. That this energy is supplied to the body as it is to other machines, in the form of the energy of chemical composi- tion, will also need no further proof when it is remembered that it is necessary to supply the body with appropriate food in order that it may do work. The food we eat, like coal, lepiesents33 IS THE BODY A MACHINE ? SO much solar energ}^ which is stored up by the I agency of plant life, and the close comparison I between feeding the body to enable it to work and feeding the engine to enable it to develop energy is so evident that it demands no further idemonstration. The details of the problem may, 'however, present some diflScuIties. ’ The first question which presents itself is whether the only power the body possesses is, as in the case with other machines, to transform energy without being able to create or destroy it ? Can every bit of energy shown by the living organism be accounted for by energy furnished in the food, and conversely can all the energy furnished in the food be found manifested in the living organism ? The theoretical answer to this question in :erms of the law of the conservation of energy s clear enough, but it is by no means so easy to inswer it by experimental data. To obtain ex- perimental demonstration it would be necessary >0 make an accurate determination of the amount )f energy an individual receives during a given Deriod, and at the same time a similar measure- nent of the amount of energy liberated in his pody either as motion or heat. If the body is a nachine, these two should exactly balance, and 1 they do not balance it would indicate that he living organism either creates or destroys mergy, and is therefore not a machine. Such ixperiments are exceedingly difficult. They nust be performed usually upon man rather han other animals, and it is necessary to Qclose an individual in an absolutely sealed 034 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. space with arrangements for furnishing hiin with air and food in measured quantity, and witti appliances for measuring accurately the work he does and the heat given off from his body. In addition, it is necessary to measure the exact amount of material he eliminates in the form oi carbonic acid and other excretions. Such ex- periments present many difficulties which have not yet been thoroughly overcome, but they have been attempted by several investigators. For the purpose of such an experiment scientists have allowed themselves to be shut up in a small chamber six or eight feet in length, in which their only communication with the outer world is by telephone and through a small opening in the side of the chamber, occasionally opened tor a second or two to supply the prisoner with food In such a chamber they have remained as long as twelve days. In these experiments it is necessary to take account not only ot the food eaten, but of the actual amount of this tood which is used by the body. If the person gams in weight, this must mean that he is storing up in his body material for future use ; while it he loses in weight, this means that he is consuming his own tisLes for fuel. Careful daily records of his weight must therefore be taken. Fstu mates of the solids, liquids, and gases given oft from his body must be obtained, for to carry out the experiment an exact balance must be made between the income and the outgo, ilie apparatus devised for such experiments has been made very delicate ; so delicate, incleed, that the rising of the individual in the box from his chair35 IS THE BODY A MACHINE? is immediately seen in a rise in temperature of the apparatus. But even with this delicacy the apparatus is comparatively coarse, and can measure only the most apparent forms of energy. The more subtile types of energy such as nervous force, if this is to be regarded as energy, do not make any impression on the apparatus. The obstacles in the way of these experiments do not particularly concern us, but the general results are of the greatest significance for our purpose. While, for manifest reasons, it has mot been possible to carry on these experi- 1 ments for any great length of time, and while 1 t accurately I refined, they are all of one kind and teach un- hesitatingly one conclusion. So far as concerns measurable energy or measurable material, the machine. If the body IS to do work in this respiration [apparatus, it does so only by breaking to pieces la certain amount of food and using the energy thus liberated, and the amount of food needed is proportional to the amount of work done. When the individual simply walks across the floor, or ^ven rises from his chair, this is accompanied by an increase in the amount of food material broken up and a consequent increase in the amount of refuse matter eliminated and the heat pyen ofl. The income and outgo of the body in both matter and energy is balanced. If, during the experimental period, it is found that less energy is liberated than that contained in the food assimilated, it is also found that the body36 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. has gained in weight, which simply means that the extra energy has been stored in the body for future use. No more energy can be obtamed from the body than is furnished, and for all furnished in the food an equivalent amount is regained. There is no trace of any creation or destruction of energy. While, on account of the complexity of the experimenting, an absolutely strict balance sheet cannot be made, all the results are of the same nature. So far as con- cerns measurable energy, all the facts collected bear out the theoretical conception that tRe living body is to be regarded as a machine which converts the potential energy of chemical composition, stored passively in its lood,into active energy of motion and heat. It is found, however, that the body is a machine of a somewhat superior grade, since it is able to convert this potential energy into motion with less loss than the ordinary machine. As noticed above, in all machines a portion of the energy is converted into heat and rendered unavailab e by radiating into space. In an ordinary engine only about one-fifteenth of the energy furnished in the coal can be regained in the forin of motive power, the rest being radiated from the machine as heat. Some of our better engines to-day utilize a somewhat larger part, but most of them utilize less than one-tenth. The experiments with the living body in the respiration appara- tus above described, give a means of determining the proportion of the energy furnished m the form of food which can be utilized in the form of motive force. This figure appears to be37 IS THE BODY A MACHINE? decidedly larger than that obtained by any machine yet devised by man. _ The conclusion of the matter up to this point IS then clear. If we leave out of account the phenomena of the nervous system, which we shall consider presently, the general income and outgo of the body as concerns matter and energy is such that the body must be regarded as a machine, which, like I other machines, simply transforms energy without 1 creating or destroying it. To this extent, at least, I animals conform to the law of the conservation, of I energy and are veritable machines. details of the action of the machine. We turn next to some of the subordinate problems concerning the details of the action of the living machine. We have a clear under- standing of the method of action of a steam engine. Its mechanism is simple, and, moreover It was designed by human intelligence. We can understand how the force of chemical affinity breaks up the chemical composition of the coal how the heat thus liberated is applied to the water to vaporise it; how the vapour is col- lected in^ the boiler under pressure; how this press^e is applied to the piston in the cylinder and how this finally results in the revolution of the fly-wheel. It is true that we do not under- stand the underlying forces of chemism, etc., but these forces certainly exist and are the foundation of science. But the mechanism of the engine is intelligible. Our understanding of it is such that, with the forces of chemistry and physics38 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. as a foundation, we can readily explain the running of the machine. Our next problem, therefore, is to see if we can in the same way reach an understanding of the phenomena ot the living machine. Can we, by the use of the same chemical and physical forces, explain the activities taking place in the living organisin'? Can the motion of the body, for example, be made as intelligible as the motion of the steam engine ? PHYSICAL EXPLANATION OF THE CHIEF VITAL FUNCTIONS. The living machine is, of course, vastly more complicated than the steam engine, and there are many different processes which must be considered separately. There is not space in a work of this size to consider them all carefully, but we may select a few of the vital functions as illustrations of the method which is pursued. It will be assumed that the fundamental processes of human physiology are understood by the reader, and we shall try to interpret some of them in terms ot chemical and physical force. Dwesto.—The first step m this transformation of fuel is the process of digestion. Now this pro- cess of digestion is nothing mysterious, nor does it involve any peculiar or special forces. DigesMon of food is simply a chemical change therein, i be food which is taken into the body in the form ot sugar, starch, fat or proteid, is acted upon by the digestive juices in such a way that its chemical nature is slightly changed. But the changes tha thus occur are not peculiar to the living body.39 IS THE BODY A MACHINE? since they will take place equally well in the chemist’s laboratory. They are simply changes in the molecular structure of the food material, and only such changes as are simple and familiar to the chemist. The forces which effect the change are undoubtedly those of chemical affinity. The only feature of the process which is not perfectly intelligible in terms of chemical law is the nature of the digestive juices. The digestive fluids of the mouth and stomach contain certain substances which possess a somewhat remarkable power, inasmuch as they are able to bring about the chemical changes which occur in the digestion of food. An example will make this clearer. One of the digestive processes is the conversion of starch into sugar. The relation of these two bodies is a very simple one, starch being readily converted into sugar by the addition to its molecule of a molecule of water. The change can- not be produced by simply adding starch to water, but the water must be introduced into the starch molecule. This change can be brought about in a variety of ways, and is undoubtedly effected by the forces of chemical affinity. Chemists have found simple methods of producing this chemical union, and the manufacture of sugar out of starchy material has even become something of a commercial industry. One of the methods by which this change can be produced is by adding to the starch, along with some water a little saliva. The saliva has the power of causing the chemical change to occur at once, and the molecule of water enters into the starch molecule and forms sugar. Now we do not understand how this saliva pos-40 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. sesses this power to induce the chemical change, But apparently the process is of the simplest character and involves no greater mystery than chemical affinity. We know that the saliva con- tains a certain material called a ferment, which is the active agent in bringing about the change. This ferment is not alive, nor does it need any living environment for its action. It can be separated from the saliva in the form of a dry amorphous powder, and in this form can be preserved almost indefinitely, retaining its power to effect the change whenever put under proper conditions. The change of starch into sugar is thus a simple chemical change occurring under the influence of chemical affinity under certain conditions. One of the conditions is the presence of this saliva ferment. If we cannot exactly understand how the ferment produces this action, neither do we exactly understand how a spark causes a bit of gunpowder to explode. But we cannot doubt that the latter is a purely natural result of the relation of chemical and physical forces, and there is no more reason for doubting it in the former case. What is true of the digestion of starch by saliva is equally true of the digestion of other foods in the stomach and intestine. Each of the digestive juices contains a ferment which brings about a chemical change in the food. The changes are always chemical changes, and are the result of chemical forces. Apart from the presence of these ferments there is really little difference between laboratory chemistry and living chemistry.IS THE BODY A MACHINE? 41 Absorption of food.—The next function of this machine to attract our attention is the absorption of food from the intestine into the blood. The digested food is carried down the alimentary canal in a purely mechanical fashion by muscular action, and when it reaches the intestine it begins to pass through its walls into the blood. In this absorption we find engaged another set of forces, the chief of which appears to be the physical force of osmosis. The force of osmosis has no special connection with life. If a membrane separates two liquids of dif- ferent composi- tion (Fig. 1), a force is exerted on the liquids which causes them to pass through the membrane, each passing through B—To illustrate osmosis. In the vessel ° A is a solution of sugar; in B, is pure one memorane water. The two are separated by the into the other membrane C. The sugar passes through the membrane into B. compartment. The force which drives these liquids through the membrane is considerable, and may some- times be exerted against considerable pres- sure. A simple experiment will illustrate this force. In Fig. 2 is represented a mem- branous bag tightly fastened to a glass tube. The bag is filled with a strong solution of sugar, and is immersed in a vessel containing pure water. Under these conditions some of the sugar42 THE STORY OF LIFERS MECHANISM. solution passes through the hag into the water, and some of the water passes from the vessel into the bag. But if the solution of sugar is inside the bag and the pure water outside, the amount of liquid passing into the bag is greater than the amount passing out; the bag soon becomes distended and the water even rises in the tube to a con- siderable height at a (Fig. 2). The force here concerned is a force known as osmosis or dialysis, and is always exerted when two different solutions of certain substances are separated from each other by a membrane. The substances in solution will, under these conditions, pass from the dense to the weaker solution. The process is a purely physi- cal one. This process of osmosis lies at the basis of the absorption of food from the In the PICT passes out and -water place, mOSt of the food into the bladder until , ^ i , it rises in the tube wlieil swailowed IS liot SOlll- to «■ ble, and therefore not capable of osmosis. But the process of digestion, as we have seen, changes the chemical nature of the food. The food, as tlte result of chemical change, has become soluble, ami after being dis- solved it is dialyzahle, i.e. capable of osmosis. Fig. 2.—In the bladder A is a sugar solution. suci? alimentary canal.IS THE BODY A MACHINE ? 43 After digestion, therefore, the food is dissolved in the liquids in the stomach and intestine, and is in proper condition for dialysis. Furthermore, the structure of the intestine is such as to pro- duce conditions adapted for dialy- sis. This can be understood from Fig. 3, which re- presents diagram- matically a cross section through the intestinal wall. Within the in- testinal wall, at A, is the food mass in solution. At B are shown little projections of the intestinal wall, called villi, extending into this food and covered by a membrane. One highly magnified this membrane, vessels, C, and -Diagram of tlio intesfinal walls, lumen of intestine filled with digested food." B, villi, eontaining blood-vessels. C, larger blood-vessel, which carries blood with absorbed food away from ths intestine. of in these villi is shown more Fig. 4, in which B shows Inside of these villi are blood- it will be thus seen that the membrane, B, separates two liquids, one contain- ing the dissolved food outside the villus, and the other containing blood inside the villus. Here are proper conditions for osmosis, and this j^ro- cess of dialysis will take place whenever the in- testinal contents holds more dialyzable material44 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. than the blood. Under these conditions, which will always occur after food has been digested by the digestive juices, the food will begin to pass through this membranous wall of the in- testine into the blood under the influence of the physical force of osmosis. Thus the prim- ary factor in food absorption is a physical one. W e "m u s t notice, how- ever, that the physical force of osmosis is not the only factor con- cerned in ab- sorption. In the first place, it is found that the food dur- ing its passage through the in- testinal wall, or shortly after- wards, under- goes a further change, so that by the time it has fairly reached the blood it has again changed its chemical nature. These changes are, however, of a chemical nature, and, PiQ 4,—Diagram of a single villus enlarged. B represents the membranous surface covering the villus ; (7, the blood vessels within the villus. PiQ. 5,—An enlarged figure of four cells of the membrane B in Fig. 4. The free sur- face is at a; / shows fat droplets in pro- cess of passage through the cells.IS THE BODY A MACHINE ? 45 while we do not yet know very much about them, they are of the same sort as those of digesiion, and involve probably nothing more than chemical processes. Secondly, we notice that there is one phase of absorption which is still obscure. Part of the food is composed of fat, and this fat, as the result of digestion, is mechanically broken up into extremely minute droplets. Although these droplets are of microscopic size they are not actually in solution, and therefore not sub- ject to the force of osmosis which only affects solutions. The osmotic force will not force fat drops through membranes, and to explain their passage through the walls of the intestine re- quires something additional. We are as yet, however, able to give only a partial explanation of this matter. ^ The inner wall of the intestine is not an inert, lifeless membrane, but is made of active bits of living matter. These bits of living matter appear to seize hold of the droplets of oil by means of little processes which they thrust out, and then pass them through their own bodies to excrete them on their inner surface into the blood-vessels. Fig. 5 shows a few of these living bits of the membrane, each con- taining^ several such fat droplets. This fat absorption thus appears to be a vital process, and not one simply controlled by physical forces like osmosis. Here our explanation runs against what we call vital power of the ultimate elements of the body. The consideration of this vital feature we must, of course, investigate further • but this will be done later. At present our46 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. purpose is a general comparison^ of the body and a machine, and we may for a little postpone the consideration of this vital phenomenon. Circulation.—The next piece of mechanism for us to consider in this machine is the device for distributing this fuel to the various parts of the machine where it is to be used as a source of energy, corresponding in a sense to the fireman of a locomotive. This mechanism we call the circulatory system. It consists of a series of tubes, or blood-vessels, running to every part of the body and supplying every bit of tissue. Within the tubes is the blood, which, from its liquid nature, is easily forced around the body through the tubes. At the centre of the system is a pump which keeps the blood in motion. The tubes form a closed system, such that the pump, or heart, may suck the blood in from one side to force it out into the tubes on the other side ; and the blood, after passing over the body in this closed set of tubes, is finally brought back again to be forced once more over the same path. As this blood is carried around the body it con- veys from one part of the machine to another all material that needs distribution. While in the intestine, as already noticed (Fig. 3), it receives the food, and now this food is carried by the circulation to the muscles or the other organs that need it. While in the lungs the blood receives oxygen, and this oxygen is then earned to those parts of the body that need it. The circulatory system is thus simply a medium by which each part of the machine may receive its proper share of the supplies needed for its action.IS THE BODY A MACHINE ? 47 Now in this circulation we have again to do with chemical and physical forces. All of its general ^ phenomena are based upon purely mechanical principles. The action of the heart —leaving out of consideration for a moment its muscular power—is that of a simple pump. It is provided with valves whose action is as simple and as easy to understand as those of any water pump. By the action of these valves the blood is kept circulating in one direction. The blood- vessels are elastic, and the study of the effect of a liquid pumped rhythmically into elastic tubes explains with simplicity the various phenomena associated with the circulation. Bor example, the rhythmically contracting heart forces a small quantity of blood into the arteries at short inter- vals. These tubes are large near the heart, but smaller at their ends, where they flow into the veins, so that the blood does not flow out into the veins so readily as it flows in from the heart. 1 he jet of blood that is sent in with every beat of the heart slightly stretches the artery, and the tention thus produced causes the blood to con- tinue to flow between the beats. But the heart continues beating, and there is an accumulation of the blood in the arteries until it exists under * some pressure—a pressure sufficient to force it rapidly through the small ends of the arteries into the veins. After passing into the veins the pressure is at once removed, since the veins are larger than the arteries, and there is no resist- ance to the flow of the blood. Hence the blood in the arteries is under pressure, while there is little or no pressure in the veins. Into the48 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. details of this matter we need not go, but this will be sufficient to indicate that the whole pro- cess is a mechanical one. We must not fail to see, however, that in this problem of circulation there are two points at least where once more we meet with that class of phenomena which we still call vital. The beating of the heart is the first of these, for this is active muscular power. The second is a contraction of the smaller blood-vessels which regulates the blood supply. Both of these phenomena are phases of muscular activity, and will be included under the discussion of other similar phenomena later. We next notice that not only is the distribu- tion of the blood explained upon mechanical principles, but the supplying of the active parts of the body with food is in the same way intelli- gible. As we have seen, the blood coming from the intestine contains the food material received from the digested food. Now when this blood in its circulation flows through the active tissues —for instance, the muscles—it is again placed under conditions where osmosis is sure to occur. In the muscles the thin-walled blood-vessels are surrounded and bathed by a liquid called lymph. Figure 6 shows a bit of muscle tissue, with its blood-vessels, which are surrounded by lymph. The lymph, which is not shown. Alls all the space outside the blood-vessels, thus bathing both muscles and blood-vessels. Here again we have a membrane {i.e,. the wall of the blood-vessel) separating two liquids, and since the lymph is ot a different composition from the blood, dialysis between them is sure to occur, and the materialsIS THE BODY A MACHINE ? 49 ■ a. which passed into the blood in the intestine through the influence of the osmotic force, now pass out into the lymph under the influence of the same force The food is thus brought into contact with the living muscle fibres, these fibres are now able to take directly from the lymph the material needed for their use. The power which enables the muscle fibre to take the piatenal it needs, discard- ing the rest, is, again, one of the vital processes which we defer for a moment. Respiration. — Pursuing the same line of study, we turn for a moment to the relation of the circulatory system to the function of supplying the body with oxjgen gas. Oxygen is absolutely needed to carry -nn '*'- on the functions of life; nr « a k-. , for these, like those of "'"scie with the engine, are based upon the oxidation of the fuel. The oxygen is derived from the air in the sim- plest manner. During its circulation the blood is brought for a fraction of a second into practical contact with air. This occurs in the lungrwheTe there are great numbers of air cells, in the walls which the blood-vessels are distributed in great profusion. While the blood is in these veSs D - YYItll Its blood-vessels: a, the muscle fibres ; b, the minule blood - vessels. The fibres and vessels are bathed in lymph (not shown in the figure) and food material passes through the walls of the blood - vessels into this lymph.50 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. it is not indeed in actual contact with the air, hut is separated from it by only a very thin membrane-so thin that it forms no hindrance to the interchange of gases. These air-cells are kept filled with air by simple muscular action. By the contraction of the muscles of the thorax the thoracic cavity is enlarged, and as a result air is sucked in in exactly the same way that it is sucked into a pair of bellows when expanded. Then the contraction of another set of i^^ascles decreases the size of the thoracic cavity, and the air is squeezed out again. The action is just ^ truly mechanical as is that of the blacksmiths The relation of the air to the blood is ]ust as simple. In the blood there are various chemical ingredients, among which is one known as haemo- globin. It does not concern us at present to ask where this material comes from, since this question is part of the broader question, the origin of the machine, to be discussed in the seclnd part of this work The hsemoglobin is a normal constituent of the blood, and, red in colour, gives the red colour to the blood. This hiemoglobin has peculiar relations to oxygen. It can be separated from the blood and experi- mented upon by the chemist in his lal^oratory It is found that when haemoglobin is broUj,ht in contact with oxygen, under sufficient pressure it will form a chemical union with it. ims chemical union is, however, what the chemist calls a loose combination, since it is readily broken up. If the oxygen is above a certain rather low pressure, the union will take place,IS THE BODY A MACHINE ? 51 while if the pressure be below this point the union is at once destroyed, and the oxyeen leaves the haemoglobin to become free. All of this is a purely chemical matter, and can be demonstrated at will in a test tube in the labora- tory. But this union and disassociation is just foundation of respiration, i he blood coming to the lungs contains haemo- globin, and since the oxygen pressure in the air IS. this haemoglobin unites at once with a quantity of oxygen while the blood is flowing through the air-vessels. The blood is then carried off in the circulation to the active tissues like the muscles. These tissues are con- stantly using oxygen to carry on their life pro- cesses, and constantly at all times use up about all the oxygen within their reach. The result is that in these tissues the oxygen pressure is very low and when the oxygen-laden haemoglobin reaches them the association of the haemoglobin with oxygen is at once broken up and the oxygen set free in the tissue. It passes at once to the lymph, from which the active tissues seize it for the purpose of carrying on the oxidizing processes of the body. This whole matter of supplying the body with oxygen is thus fundamentally a chemical one, controlled by chemical laws. Removal of Waste.—The next step in this life process is one of diflBculty. After the food and oxygen have reached the tissues it is seized by the iving cell. The food material is now oxi- dized by the oxygen, and its latent energy is liberated, and appears in the form of motion or52 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. heat or some other vital function. Herein is the' really mysterious part of the life process , but for the present we will overlook the mystery of this action, and consider the results from a purely material standpoint. In a steam engine the fundamental process by which the latent energy of the fuel is liberated is that of oxidation. ^ The oxygen of the air unites with the chemical elements of the tuel, and breaks up that fuel into simple compounds —which may be chiefly considered as tk^ee— carbonic dioxide (COg), water (H2O), and ash. The energy contained in the original compound cannot be held by these simpler bodies, and it therefore escapes as heat. Just the same pro- cess, with of course difference in details is found in the living machine. The food, after reaching the living cell, is united with the oxygen, and, so far as chemical results are concerned, the process is much the same as if it occurred outside the body. Tim food is broken into simpler compounds and the c(m- tained energy is liberated. The energy is, by the mechanism of the machine, changed into motion or nervous impulse, etc The food is broken into simple compounds, which are chiefly carbonic dioxide, water, and ash ; the ash being, however, quite different from the ash obtained from burning coal. Now the engine must have its chimney to remove the gases and vapours (the COo and H^O) and its ashpit for the ashes. In the same way the living machine kas its excretory system for removing wastes. In the removal of the carbonic acid and water we haveIS THE BODY A MACHINE ? 53 more^ with the respiratory system, and the process is simply a repetition of the story ^ of gas diffusion, chemical union, and osmosis.^ It is sufficient here to say that the process is just as simple and as easily explained as those already described. The elimination of these wastes is simply a problem of chemistry and mechanics. In the removal of the ash, however, we have something more, for here again we are brought up against the vital action of the cell. This ash takes chiefly the form of a compound known as urea, which finds its way into the general circula- tory system. From the blood it is finally removed by the kidneys. In the kidneys are a large nu^mber of bits of living matter (kidney cells), which have the power of seizing hold of the urea as the blood is flowing over them, and after thus taking it out of the blood they deposit it in a series of tubes which lead to the bladder and hence to the exterior. The bringing of this ash to the kidney cell is a mechanical matter, based simply upon the flow of the blood. The seizing of the urea by the kidney cell is a vital pheno- menon which we must waive for the moment. Up to this point in the analysis there has been no difficulty, and no one can fail to agree with the conclusions. The position we reach is as tollows : bo far as relates to the general problems of energy m the universe the body is a machine It neither creates nor destroys energy, but simply transforms one form into another. In attempt- mg to explain the action of the machine, we find that lor the functions thus far considered (some-54 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. times called the vegetative functions) the laws of chemistry and physics furnish adequate ex- planation. ^ We must now look a little furtker, and question some of the functions the mechanical nature of which is less obvious. The whole operation thus far described is under the control of the nervous system, which acts somewhat like the engineer of an engine. Can this phase of living activity be included within the conception of the body as a machine 'I ^ . x Nervms System.—When we come to try to apply mechanical principles to the nervous system, we meet with what seems at first to be no thoroughfare. While dealing with the grosser questions of chemical compounds, heat and motion, there is little difijculty in appl^ying natural laws to the explanation of living pheno- mena. But the problem with the nervous system is very different. It is only to-day that we are finding that the problem is open to study, to say nothing of solution. It is true that mental and other nervous phenomena have been studied tor a long time, but this study has been simply the study of these phenomena by themselves without a thought of their correlation with other pheno- mena of nature. It is a matter of quite recent conception that nervous phenomena have any direct relation to the other realms of nature. Our first question must be whether we can find any correlation between neryous energy and other types of energy. For our purpose it will be convenient to distinguish between the mena of simple nervous transmission and the55 IS THE BODY A MACHINE? phenomena of mental activity. The former are the simpler, and offer the greatest hope of solution. If we are to find any correlation be- tween nervous energy and other physical energy, we must do so by finding some way of measuring nervous energy and comparing it with the latter. This has been very difficult, for we have no way of measuring a nervous impulse directly. In the larger experiments upon the income and outgo of the body, in the respiration apparatus mentioned above, nervous phenomena apparently leave no trace. So far as experiments have gone as yet, there is no evidence of an expenditure of extra physical energy when the nervous system is in action. This is not surprising, however, for this apparatus is entirely too coarse to measure such delicate factors. That there is a correlation between nervous energy and physical energy is, however, pretty definitely proved by experiments along different lines. The first step in this direction was to find that a nervous stimulus can be measured at least indirectly. When the nerve is stimulated there passes from one end to the other an impulse, and the rapidity with which it travels can be accurately measured. When such an impulse reaches the brain it may give rise to a con- scious sensation, and a somewhat definite esti- mation can be made of the amount of time required for this. The periods are very short, of course, but they are not instantaneous. The nervous impulse, can be studied in still other ways. We find that the impulse can be started by ordinary forms of energy. A mechanical56 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. shock, a chemical or an electrical shock, will develop nervous energy. Now these are ordinary forms of physical energy, and if, when they are applied to a nerve, they give rise to a nervous stimulus, the inference is certainly a legitimate one that the nerve is simply a bit of machinery adapted to the conversion of certain kinds of physical energy into nervous energy. If this is the case, then it is necessary to regard nervous energy as correlated with other forms of energy. Other facts point in the same direction. Not only can the nervous stimulus be developed by an electric shock, but the strength of the stimulus is within certain limits proportional to the strength of the shock which produces it. Again, not only is it found that an electrical shock can develop a nervous stimulus, but conversely a nervous stimu- lus develops electrical energy. In ordinary nerves, even when not active, slight electric currents can be detected. They are extremely slight, and re- quire the most delicate instrumeuts for their detection. Now when a nerve is stimulated, these currents are immediately affected in such a way that under proper conditions they are increased in intensity. The increase is sufficient to make itself easily seen by the motion of a galvanometer. The motion of the galvanometer under these conditions gives a ready means of studying the character of the nervous impulse. By its use it can be determined that the nerve impulse travels along the nerve like a wave, and we can approximately determine the length and shape of the wave and its relative height at various points.IS THE BODY A MACHINE ? 57 Now what is the significance of all these facts for our discussion ? Together they point clearly to the conclusion that nervous energy is corre- lated with other forms of physical energy. Since I the nervous stimulus is started by other forms of energy, and since it can, in turn, modify ordinary forms of energy, we cannot avoid the conclusion that the nervous impulse is only a special form of energy developed within the nerve. It is a form of wave motion peculiar to the nerve sub- stance, but correlated with and developed from other types of energy. This, of course, makes the nerve simply a bit of machinery. If this conclusion is true, the development of a nerve impulse would mean that a certain por- tion of food is broken to pieces in the body to liberate energy, and this should be accompanied by an elimination of carbonic dioxide and heat. Ihis IS easily shown to be true of muscle action When we remove a muscle from the body it may reniain capable of contracting for some time. By studying it under these conditions we find that it gives rise to carbonic dioxide and other sub- stances, and liberates heat whenever it contracts. As already noticed, in the respiration experi- ments, whenever the individual experimented upon makes any motions, there is an accompany- ing elimination of waste products and a develop- ment of heat. But this does not appear to be demonstrable for the actions of the nervous system. Although very careful experiments have been made, it has as yet been found impos- sible to detect^ any rise in temperature when a lerve impulse is passing through a nerve, nor is58 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. there any demonstrable excretion of waste p^- ducts. This would be a serious objection to the conception of the nerve as a machine were it not for the fact that the nerve is so small that the total sum of its nervous energy must be very slight. The total energy of this minute machine is so slight that it cannot be detected by our comparatively rough instruments of measure- In short, all evidence goes to show that the nerve impulse is a form of motion, and h^ce o energy, correlated with other forms of physical energy. The nerve is, however, a very delicate machine, and its total amount of energy is very small. A tiny watch is a more delicate machine than a water-wheel, and its actions are more de- pendent upon the accuracy of its adjustment. The water-wheel may be made very coarse and yet be perfectly efficacious, while the watch be fashioned with extreme delicacy. Yet the water-wheel transforms vastly more energy than the watch. It may drive the many machines m a factory, while the watch can do no more th^ move itself. But who can doubt that the watch, as well as the water-wheel, is governed by the law of the correlation of forces ? So the nervous system of the living machine is delicately adjusted and easily put out of order, and its action in- volves only a small amount of energy ; but it is just as truly subject to the law of the conserva- tion of energy as is the more massive muscle. Sensations.—PviYsmng this subject further, we next notice that it is possible to trace a connec- tion between physical energy and sensations. Sen-IS THE BODY A MACHINE? 59 sations are excited by certain external forms of motion. The living machine has, for example, one piece of apparatus capable of being affected by rapidly vibrating waves of air. This bit of the machine we call the ear. It is made of parts delicately adjusted, so that vibrating waves of air set them in motion, and their motion starts a nervous stimulus travelling along the auditory nerve. As a result this apparatus will be set in motion, and an impulse sent along the auditory nerve whenever that external type of motion which we call sound strikes the ear. In other words, the ear is a piece of apparatus for chang- ing air vibrations into nervous stimulation, and is therefore a machine. Apparently the material in the ear is like a bit of gunpowder, capable of being exploded by certain kinds of external excitation; but neither the gunpowder nor the material in the ear develops any energy other than that in it at the outset. In the same way the optic nerve has, as its end, a bit of mechan- ism readily excited by light vibrations of the ether, and hence the optic nerve will always be excited when ether vibrations chance to have an opportunity of setting the optic machinery in motion. And so on with the other senses. Each sensory nerve has, at its end, a bit of machinery designed for the transformation of certain kinds of external energy into nervous energy, just as a dynamo is a machine for transforming motion into electricity. If the machine is broken, the external force has no longer any power of acting upon it, and the individual becomes deaf or blind. Mental Phenomena,—Thus far in our analysis60 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. we need not hesitate in recognizing a correlation between physical and nervous energy. Even though nervous energy is very subtle and only affects our instruments of measurement under exceptional conditions, the fact that nervous forces are excited by physical forces, and are themselves directly measurable, indicates that they are correlated with physical forces. Up to this point, then, we may confidently say that the nervous system is part of the machine. But when we turn to the more obscure parts of the nervous phenomena, those which we com- monly call mental, we find ourselves obliged to stop abruptly. We may trace the external force to the sensory organ, we may trace this force into a nervous stimulus, and may follow this stimulus to the brain as a wave motion, and therefore as a form of physical energy. But there we must stop. We have no idea of how the nervous impulse is converted into a sensa- tion. The mental side of the sensation appears to stand in a category by itself, and we can not look upon it as a form of energy. It is true that many brave attempts have been made to associate the two. Sensations can be measured as to intensity, and the intensity of a sensation is to a certain extent dependent upon the inten- sity of the stimulus exciting it. The mental sensation is undoubtedly excited by the physical wave of nervous impulse. In the growth of the individual the development of its mental powers are found to be parallel to the development of its nerves and brain—a fact, which, of course, proves that mental power is dependent upon61 IS THE BODY A MACHINE? brain structure. Further, it is found that certain visible changes occur in certain parts of the brain —the brain cells—when they are excited into mental activity. Such series of facts point to an association between the mental side of sensations and physical structure of the machine. But they do not prove any correlation between them. The unlikeness of mental and physical pheno- mena is so absolute that we must hesitate about drawing any connection between them. It is impossible to conceive the mental side of a sensa- tion as a form of wave motion. If, further, we take into consideration the other phenomena associated with the nervous system, the more distinctly mental processe'fe, we have absolutely no data for any comparison. We cannot imagine thought measured by units, and until we can conceive of such measurement we can get no meaning from any attempt to find a correlation between mental and physical phenomena. It is true that certain psychologists have tried to build up a conception of the physical nature of mind ; but their attempts have chiefly resulted in build- ing up a conception of the physical nature of the brain, and then ignoring the radical chasm that exists between mind and matter. The possibility of describing a complex brain as growing parallel to the growth of a complex mind has been re- garded as equivalent to proving their identity. All attempts in this direction thus far have simply ignored the fact that the stimulation of a nerve, a purely physical process, is not the same thing as a mental action. What the future may disclose it is hazardous to say, but at present the62 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. mental side of the living machine has not been included within the conception of the mechanical nature of the organism. THE LIVING BODY IS A MACHINE. Ee vie wing the subject up to this point, what must be our verdict as to our ability to under- stand the running of the living machine 1 In the first place, we are justified in regarding the body as a machine, since, so far as concerns its relations to energy, it is simply a piece of mechanism—complicated, indeed, beyond any other machine, but still a machine for changing one kind of energy into another. It receives the energy in the form of chemical composition and converts it into heat, motion, nervous wave motion, etc. All of this is sure enough. Whether other forms of nervous and mental activity can be placed under the same category, or whether these must be regarded as belonging to a realm by themselves and outside of the scope of energy in the physical sense, cannot perhaps be yet definitely decided. We can simply say that as yet no one has been able even to conceive how thought can be commensurate with physical energy. The utter unlikeness of thought and wave motion of any kind leads us at present to feel that on the side of mentality the com- parison of the body with a machine fails o being complete. „ „ , In regard to the second half of the question, whether natural forces are adequate to explain the running of the machine, we have againIS THE BODY A MACHINE? 63 been able to reach a satisfactory positive answer. Digestion, assimilation, circulation, respiration, excretion, the principal categories of physiological action, and at least certain phases of the action of the nervous system are readily understood as controled by the action of chemical and physical forces. In the accom- plishment of these actions there is no need for the supposition of any force other than i those which are at our command in the scientific laboratory. I I THE LIVING MACHINE CONSTRUCTIVE AS WELL AS DESTRUCTIVE. j In one respect the living machine differs from I ill others. The action of all other machines re- I suits in the destruction of organised material, and ibhus in a degradation of matter. For example, a jsteam^ engine receives coal, a substance of high chemical composition, and breaks it into more \nmple compounds, in this way liberating its stored energy. Now if we examine all forms iDf artificial machines, we find in the same way ;;hat there is always a destruction of compounds of high chemical composition. In such machines t is common to start with heat as a source of ■inergy, and this heat is always produced by the Dreaking of chemical compounds to pieces. In dl chemical processes going on in the chemist’s aboratory there is similarly a destruction of organic compounds. It is true that the chemist sometimes makes complex compounds out of simpler ones; but in order to do this he is64 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. obliged to use heat to bring about the com- bination, and this heat is obtained from the destruction of a much larger quantity of high compounds than he manufactures. The total result is therefore destruction rather than manu- facture of high compounds. Thus it is a fact, that in all artificial machines and in all artificial chemical processes there is, as a total result, a degradation of matter toward the simpler from the more complex compounds. As a result of the action of the living machine, however, we have the opposite process of construc- tion going on. All high chemical compounds are to be traced to living beings as their source. When green plants grow in sunlight they take simple compounds and combine them together to form more complex ones in such a way that the total result is an increase of chemical compounds of high complexity. In doing this they use the energy of sunlight, which they then store away in the compounds formed. They thus produce starches, oils, proteids, woods, etc., and these stores of energy now may be used by artificial machines. The living machine builds up, other machines pull down. The living machine stores sunlight in complex compounds, other machines take it out and use it. The living organism is therefore to be compared to a sun engine, which obtains its energy directly from the sun, rather than to the ordinary engine. While this does not in the slightest militate against the idea of the living body as a machine, it does indicate that it is a machine of quite a different charac- ter from any other, and has powers possessed65 IS THE BODY A MACHINE ? by no other machine. Living machines alone inci ease the amount of chemical compounds of hiah complexity. . j y We must notice, however, that this power of construction in distinction from destruction is possessed only by one special class of living machines. Green plants alone can thus increase the store of organic compounds in the world. All colourless plants and all animals, on the other iiancl, live by destroying these compounds and using the energy thus liberated; in this respect being more like ordinary artificial machines. The animal does indeed perform certain constructive operations, manufacturing complex material out of sirnpler bodies; as, for example, making fats out of starches. But in this operation it de- stroys a large amount of organic material to turnish the energy for the construction, so that the total result is a degradation of chemical compounds rather than a construction. Con- structive processes, which increase the amount ot high compounds in nature, are confined to the iving inachine, and indeed to one special form of It, VIZ the green plant. This constructive power radically separates the living from other machines ; for while constructive processes are possible to the chemist, and while engines mak- ing use of sunlight are possible, the living machine is the only machine that increases the amount of high chemical compounds in the ETHE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM, 66 THE VITAL FACTOR. With all this explanation of life processes it can not fail to be apparent that we have not really reached the centre of the problem. We have explained many secondary processes but the primary ones are still unsolved. In studying digestion we reach an understanding of every- thing until we come to the active vital proper y of the gland-cells in secreting. In studying absorption we understand the process until we come to what we have called the vital powers of the absorptive cells of the alimentary canal. The circulation is intelligible until we come to the beating of the heart and the contraction of the muscles of the blood-vessels. Excretion is also partly explained, but here again we finally must refer certain processes to the vital po^e^s of active cells. And thus wherever we ppbe the problem we find ourselves able to explain many secondary problems, while the fundamental ones we still attribute to the vital properties of the active tissues. Why a muscle contracts or a gland secretes we have certainly not yet answered. The relation of the actions to the general prob- lems of correlation of force^ is simple enough. That a muscle is a machine in the sense of definition is beyond question. But the problem of ivhy a muscle acts is not answered by showing that it derives its energy from broken food material. There are plainly still left for us a number of fundamental problems, although the secondary ones are soluble. What can we say in regard to these funda-67 IS THE BODY A MACHINE ? mental vital powers of the active tissues ? Firstly, we must notice that many of the pro- cesses which we now understand were formerly classed as vital, and we only retain under this term those which are not yet explained. This, of course, suggests to us that perhaps we may some day find an explanation for all the so-called vital powers by the application of simple physical forces. Is it a fact that the only significance to the term vital is that we have not yet been able to explain these processes to our entire satisfac- tion? Is the diference between what we have called the secondary processes and the primary ones only one of degree ? Is there a probability that the actions which we now call vital will some day be as readily understood as those which have already been explained ? Is there any method by which we can approach these fundamental problems of muscle action, heart beat, gland secretion, etc.? Evidently, if this is to be done, it must be by resolving the body into its simple units and studying these units. Our study thus far has been a study of the machinery of the body as a whole; but we have found that the various parts of the machine are themselves active, that apart from the action of the general machine as a whole, the separate parts have vital powers. We must, therefore, get rid of this complicated machinery, which confuses the problem, and see if we can find the fundamental units which show these properties unencumbered^ by the secondary machinery which has hitherto attracted our attention. We must turn now to the problem connected68 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. with protoplasm and the living cell, since here, if anywhere, can we find the life substance reduced to its lowest terms. CHAPTER II. THE CELL AND PROTOPLASM—VITAL PROPERTIES. We have seen that the general activities of the body are intelligible according to chemical and mechanical laws, provided we can assume as their foundation the simple vital properties of living phenomena. We must now approach closer to the centre of the problem, and ask whether we can trace these fundamental pro- perties to their source and find an explanation of them. In the first place, what are these properties 1 The vital powers are varied, and lie at the basis of every form of living activity. When we free them from complications, however, they miiy all be reduced to four. These are: (1) IfTitcibility, or the property possessed by living matter of react- ing when stimulated. (2) Movement, or the power of contracting when stimulated. (3) Metaholism, or the power of absorbing extraneous food and pro- ducing in it certain chemical changes, which either convert it into more living tissue or break it to pieces to liberate the inclosed energy. (4) Repro- duction, or the power of producing new^ indi- viduals. From these four simple vital activities all other vital actions follow; and if we can findTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 69 an explanation of these, we have explained the living machine. If we grant that certain parts of the body can assimilate food and multiply, having the power of contraction when irritated, we can readily explain the other functions of the living machine by the application of these properties to the complicated machinery of the body. But these properties are fundamental, and unless we can grasp them we have failed to reach the centre of the problem. As we pass from the more to the less compli- cated anirnals we find a gradual simplification of the machinery until the machinery apparently disappears. With this simplification of the machinery we find the animals provided with less varied powers and with less delicate adapta- tions to conditions. But withal we find the fundamental powers of the living organisms the same. For the performance of these fundamental activities there is apparently needed no machinery. The simple types of living bodies are simple in number of parts, but they possess essentially the same powers of assimilation and growth that ~ characterize the higher forms. It is evident that in our attempt to trace the vital properties to their source we may proceed in two ways. We may either direct our attention to the simplest organisms where all secondary machinery is wanting, or to the smallest parts into which the tissues of higher organisms can be resolved and yet retain their life properties. In either way we may hope to find living phenomena in their simplest form independent of secondary machinery. ^70 THE STORY OF LIFERS MECHANISM. But the fact is, when we turn our attention in these two directions, we find the result is the same. If we look for the lowest organisms we find them among forms that are made of a single cell, and if we analyze the tissues of higher animals we find the ultimate parts to be cells. Thus, in either direction, the study of the cell is forced upon us. Before beginning the study of the cell it will be well for us to try to get a clear notion of the exact nature of the problems we are trying to solve. We wish to explain the activities of life phenomena in such a way as to make them intel- ligible through the application of natural forces. That these processes are fundamentally chemical ones is evident enough. A. chemical oxidation of food lies at the basis of all vital activity, and it is thus through the action of chemical forces that the vital powers are furnished with their energy. But the real problem is what it is in the living machine that controls these chemical processes. Fat and starch may be oxidized in a chemist s test tubes, and will there liberate energy; but they do not, under these conditions, manifest vital phenomena. Proteid may be brought in contact with oxygen without any oxidation occurring, and even if it is oxidized no motion or assimi- lation or reproduction occurs under ordinary conditions. These phenomena occur only when the oxidation takes place in the living machine. Our problem is then to determine, if possible, what it is in the living machine that regu- lates the oxidations and other changes in such a way as to produce from them vitalTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 71 activities. Why is it that the oxidation of starch in the living machine gives rise to motion, growth, and reproduction, while if the oxidation occurs in the chemist’s laboratory, or even in a bit of dead protoplasm, it simply gives rise to heat ? One of the primary questions to demand atten- tion in this search is whether we are to find the explanation, at the bottom, a chemical or a mechanical one. In the simplest form of life in which vital manifestations are found are we to attribute these properties simply to chemical forces of the living substance, or must we here too attribute them to the action of a complicated machinery ^ This question is more than a formal one. That it is one of most profound significance will appear from the following considerations. Chemical affinity is a well-recognized force. Under the action of this force chemical com- pounds are produced and different compounds formed under different conditions. The proper- ties of the different compounds differ with their composition, and the more complex are the com- pounds the more varied their properties. Now it might be assumed as an hypothesis that there could be a chemical compound so complex as to possess, among other properties, that of causing the oxidation of food to occur in such a way as to produce assimilation and growth. Such a com- pound would, of course, be alive, and it would be just as true that its power of assimilating food would be one of its physical properties as it is that freezing is a physical property of water. If such an hypothesis should prove to be the true72 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. one, then the problem of explaining life would be a chemical one, for all vital properties would be reducible to the properties of a chemical com- pound. It would then only be necessary to show how such a compound came into existence and we should have explained life. !N^or would this be a hopeless task. We are well acquainted with forces adequate to the formation of chemical compounds. If the force of chemical affinity is adequate under certain conditions to form some compounds, it is easy to conceive it as a possi- bility under other conditions to produce this chemical living substance. Our search would need then to be for a set of conditions under which our living compound could have been pro- duced by the known forces of chemical affinity. But suppose, on the other hand, that we find this simplest bit of living matter is not a chemical compound, but is in itself a complicated machine. Suppose that, after reducing this vital substance to its simplest type, we find that the substance with which we are dealing not only has complex chemical structure, but that it also possesses a large number of structural parts adapted to each other in such a way as to work together in the form of an intricate mechanism. The whole prob- lem would then be changed. To explain such a machine we could no longer call upon chemical forces. Chemical affinity is adequate to the ex- planation of chemical compounds however com- plicated, but it cannot offer any explanation for the adaptation of parts which make a machine. The problem of the origin of the simplest form of life would then be no longer one of chemical but73 THE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. one of mechanical evolution. It is plain then that the question of whether we can attribute the properties of the simplest type of life to chemical composition or to mechanical structure is more than a formal one. thj: discovery of cells. It is difficult for us to-day to have any adequate idea of the wonderful flood of light that was thrown upon scientific and philo- sophical study by the discoveries which are grouped around the terms cells and proto- plasm. Cells and protoplasm have become so thoroughly a part of modern biology that we can hardly picture to ourselves the vagueness of knowledge before these facts were recognized. Perhaps a somewhat crude comparison will illus- trate the relation which the discovery of cells had to the study of life. Imagine for a moment, some intelligent being located on the moon and trying to study the phenomena on the earth’s surface. Suppose that he is provided with a telescope sufficiently power- ful to disclose moderately large objects on the earth, but not smaller ones. He would see cities in various parts of the world with wide differ- ences in appearance, size, and shape. He would see railroad trains on the earth rushing to and fro. He would see new cities arising and old ones increasing in size, and we may imagine him speculating as to their method of origin and the reasons why they adopt this or that shape. But in spite of his most acute observations and his74 THE STOKY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. most ingenious speculation, he could never under- stand the real significance of the cities, since he is not acquainted with the actual living unit. Imagine now, if you will, that this supramundane observer invents a telescope which enables him to perceive more minute objects and thus dis- covers human beings. What a complete revolu- tion this would make in his knowledge of mun- dane affairs! We can imagine how rapidly dis- covery would follow discovery; how it would be found that it was the human beings that build the houses, construct and run the railroads, and con- trol the growth of the cities according to their fancy; and, lastly, how it would be learned that it is the human being alone that grows and multiplies and that all else is the result of his activities. Such a supramundane observer would find himself entering into a new era, in which all his previous knowledge would sink into oblivion. Something of this same sort of revolution was inaugurated in the study of living things by the discovery of cells and protoplasms. Animals and plants had been studied for centuries and many accurate and painstaking observations had been made upon them. Monumental masses of evi- dence had been collected bearing upon their shapes, sizes, distribution, and relations. Anato- my had long occupied the attention of naturalists, and the general structure of animals and plants was already well known. But the discoveries starting in the fourth decade of the century by disclosing the unity of activity changed the aspect of biological science.75 THE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. THE CELL DOCTRINE. The cell doctrine is, in brief, the theory that the bodies of animals and plants are built up entirely of minute elementary units, more or less independent of each other, and all capable of growth and multiplication. This doctrine is commonly regarded as being inaugurated in 1839 by Schwann. Long before this, however, many microscopists had seen that the bodies of plants are made up of elementary units. In describing the bark of a tree in 1665, Eobert Hooke had stated that it was composed of little boxes or cells, and regarded it as a sort of honey- comb structure with its cells filled with air. The term cell quite aptly de- scribes the compartments of such a structure, as can be seen by a glance at Fig. 7, and this term has been retained even till to-day in spite of the fact that its original significance has entirely disappeared. During the last century not a few naturalists observed and Fig. 7.—A bit of bark show- ing cellular structure. described these little vesicles, always regarding them as little spaces and never looking upon them as having any significance in the activities of plants. In one or two instances similar bodies were noticed in animals, although no connection was drawn between them and the76 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. cells of plants. In the early part of this century observations upon various kinds of animals and plant tissues multiplied, and many microscopists independently announced the discovery of similar small corpuscular bodies. Finally, in 1839, these observations "were combined together by Schwann into one general theory. According to the cell doctrine then formulated, the parts of all animals and plants are either composed of cells or of ' material derived from cells. The bark, the wood, the roots, the leaves of plants are all com- posed of little vesicles similar to those already described under the name of cells. In animals the cellular structure is not so easy to make out; but here too the muscle, the bone, the nerve, the glands are all made up of similar vesicles or of material made from them. The^ cells are of wonderfully different shapes and widely different sizes, but in general structure they are alike. These cells, thus found in animals and plants alike, formed the first connecting link between animals and plants. This discovery was like that of our supposed supramundane observer when he first found the human being that brought into connection the widely different cities in the various parts of the world. Schwann and his immediate followers, while recognizing that the bodies of animals and plants were composed of cells, were at a loss to explain how these cells arose. The belief held at^ first was that there existed in the bodies of animals and plants a structureless substance which formed the basis out of which the cells develop, in some- what the same way that crystals arise from aTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 77 mother liquid. This supposed substance Schwann called the cytoUastema, and he thought it existed between the cells or sometimes within them. For example, the fluid part of the blood is the cytoblastema, the blood corpuscles being the cells. From this structureless fluid the cells were supposed to arise by a process akin to crystallization. To be sure, the cells grow in a manner very different from that of a crystal. A crystal always grows bj^ layers being added upon its outside, while the cells grow by additions within its body. But this was a minor detail, the essential point being that from a structure- less liquid containing proper materials the organ- ized cell separated itself. This idea of the cytoblastema was early thrown into suspicion, and almost at the time of the announcement of the cell doctrine certain micro- scopists made the claim that these cells did not come from any structureless medium, but by division from other cells like themselves. This claim, and its demonstration, was of even greater importance than the discovery of the cells. For a number of years, however, the matter was in dispute, evidence being collected which about equally attested each view. It was a Scotchman, Dr Barry, who finally produced evidence which settled the question from the study of the de- veloping egg. The essence of his discovery was as follows: The ovum of an animal is a single cell, and when it begins to develop into an embryo it first simply divides into two halves, producing two cells (Fig 8, a and b). Each of these in turn divides, giving78 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. four, and by repeated divisions of this kind there arises a solid mass of smaller cells (Fig. 8, h to /), called the mulberry stage, from its resemblance to a berry. This is, of course, simply a mass of ! cells, each derived by division from the original. As the cells increase in number, the mass also increases in size by the absorption of nutriment, and the cells continue dividing until the mass • contains thousands of cells. Meantime the body Fig. 8.—Successive stages in the division of the developing egg. of the animal is formed out of these cells, and when it is adult it consists of millions of cells, all of which have been derived by division from the original cell. In such a history each cell comes from pre-existing cells and a cytoblastema plays no part. It was impossible, however, for Barry or any other person to follow the successive divisions of the egg cell through all the stages to the adult. The divisions can be followed for a short time under the microscope, but the rest must be aTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 79 matter of simple inference. It was argued that since cell origin begins in this way by simple division, and since the same process can be ob- served in the adult, it is reasonable to assume that the same process has continued uninter- ruptedly, and that this is the only method of cell origin. But a final demonstration of this conclusion was not forthcoming for a long time. For many years some biologists continued to believe that cells can have other origin than from pre-existing cells. Year by year has the evidence for such “ free cell” origin become less, until the view has been entirely abandoned, and to-day it is everywhere admitted that new cells always arise from old ones by direct descent, and thus every cell in the body of an animal or plant is a direct descendant by division from the original egg cell. THE CELL. But what is this cell which forms the unit of life, and to which all the fundamental vital pro- perties can be traced ? We will first glance at the structure of the cell as it was understood by the earlier microscopists. A typical cell is shown in Fig. 9. It will be seen that it consists of three quite distinct parts. There is first the cell wall {cw) which is a limiting membrane of varying thickness and shape. This is in reality life- less material, and is secreted by the rest of the cell. Beiug thus produced by the other active parts of the cell, we will speak of it as formed material in distinction from the rest, which is active material. Inside this vesicle is contained80 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. a somewhat transparent semifluid material which has received various names, but which for the present we will call cell substance (Fig. 9, p’). It may be abundant or scanty, and has a widely varying consistency from a very liquid mass to a decidedly thick jelly-like substance. Lying within the cell substance is a small body, usually more or less spherical in shape, which is called the nucleus (Fig. 9, n). It appears to the micro- scope similar to the cell substance in character, From the very earliest period that cells have been studied, these three parts, cell wall, cell substance, and nucleus, have been recognised, but as to their relations to each other and to the general activities of the cell there has been the widest variety of opinion. CELLULAR STRUCTURE OF ORGANISMS. It will b) well to notice next just what is meant by saying that all living bodies are com- posed of cells. This can best be understood by and has frequently been described as a bit of the cell substance more dense than the re- ^ mainder. Lying within the nucleus there are usually to be seen one or more smaller rounded Fig. 9.—A cell; cio is the cell wall; pr, the cell substance; the nucleus. bodies which have been called nucleoli.81 THE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. \ referring to the accompanying figures. Figs 10- 14, for instance, show the microscopic appearance of several plant tissues. At Fig. 10 will be seen FiG. 10.—Cells at a root tip. the tip of a root, plainly made of cells quite Similar to the typical cell described. At Fig. 11 will be seen a bit of a leaf showing the same general struc- ture. At Fig. 12 is a bit of plant tissue of which the cell walls are very thick, so that a very dense structure is formed. At Fig. 13 is a bit of a potato showing its cells filled with small gran- ules of starch which the cells have produced by their activi- ^es and deposited within their own bodies. At Fig. 14 are several wood cells showing cell walls Fig. 11.—Section of a leaf showing cells of different shapes. F82 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. of different shape which, having become dead, have lost their contents and simply rema,m as dead cell walls. Each was in its earlier history filled with cell substance and contained a nucleus, in a similar way any bit of vegetable tissue would readily show itself to be made of simi- lar cells. I -.-k -w* n W% O I Fig. 12. Plant cells with thick walls, from a fern. tissues the cellular structure is not so easily seen, largely because the products made by the cells, the formed products, become relatively IQ 13 —Section of a potato showing different shaped cells, the inner and larger ones being filled with grams of starch. more abundant and the cells themselves no BO prominent. But the cellular structure is none the les? demonstrable. In Fig. 15, lor instance, will be seen a bit of cartilage whereTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 83 the cells themselves are rather small, while the material deposited between them is abundant. This material be- tAveen the cells is really to be re- garded as an ex- cessively thick- ened cell wall and has been secreted by the cell sub- stance lying with- in the cells, so that a bit of car- tilage is really a mass of cells with an exceptionally thick cell wall. At Fig. 16 is blood Here the cells are to be seea floating in a liquid. The liquid ° is colourless and it is the red colour in the blood cells Avhich gives the blood its red colour. The liquid may here again ^ be regarded as - material produced by i cells. At Fig. 17 is a ’ bit of bone showing small irregular cells embedded within a large mass of material which has been deposited by tbe cell. In this case the formed Fig. 14.— Various shaped wood cells from plant tissue.Fig. 16.—Frog’s blood: a and b are the cells; c is theliquiJ. 84 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. material has been hardened by calcium phos- phate, which gives the rigid consistency to the bone. In some ..- V-“T.:.!* - ■ - - animal tissues the formed material is still greater in amount. At Fig. 18, for example, is a bit of con- nective tissue, made up of a mass of fine fibres which have no resemblance to cells, and indeed are not cells. These fibres have, however, been made by cells, and a care- ful study of such tissue at proper places will show the cells within it. The cells shown in Fig. 18 (c) have secreted the fib- rous material. Fig. 19 shows a cell composing a bit of nerve. At Fig. 20 is a bit of muscle ; the only trace of cellular structure that it shows is in the nuclei (n), but if the muscle be studied in a young condition its cellular structure is more ^ i i. evident. Thus it happens in adult animals that the cells which are large and clear at first, be- come less and less evident, until the adult tissue Fig. 17.—a bit cf bone, showing the cells embedded in the bony matter.85 THE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. V-/' Fig. 18.—Connective tis- sue. The cells of the tissue are shown at seems sometimes to be composed mostly of what we have called formed material. It must not be imagined, however, that a very rigid line can be drawn between the cell itself and the material it forms. The formed material is in many cases simply a thickened cell wall; and this we commonly regard as part of the cell. In many cases the formed material is simply the old dead cell walls c, ana the fibres or i i formed matter at/. irom Whlch the living substance has been withdrawn (Fig 14). In other cases the cell substance acquires peculiar functions, so that what seems to be the formed material is really a modified cell body and is still active and alive. Such is the case in the muscle. In other cases the formed material appears to be manufactured within the cell and secreted, as in the case of bone. No sharp lines can be drawn, however, between the various types. But the distinction between formed material and cell body is a convenient one and may well be retained in the discussion of cells. — In our discussion of the fundamental vital pro- Fig. 19. A piece of nerve fibre, showing the cell with its nucleus atn.86 THE STORY OF LIFE'S MECHANISM. n.~— ■ rt per ties we are only concerned in the cell sub- stance, the formed material having nothing to do with fundamental activities of life, although it forms largely the secondary ma- chinery which we have already studied. In all higher animals and plants the life of the in- dividual begins as a single ovum or a single cell, and as it grows the cells in- crease rapidly until the F,=. f^ult is formed Out of The nuclei! are shown hundreds 01 millions 01 cells. As these cells become numerous they cease, after a little, to be alihe. They assume different shapes which are adapted to the different duties they are to perform. Thus, those cells which are to form bone soon become different from those which are to form muscle, and those which are to form the blood are quite unlike those which are to produce the hairs. By means of such a differentiation there arises a very complex mass of cells, with great variety in shape and function. It should be noticed further that there are some animals and plants in which the whole animal is composed of a single cell. These organisms are usually of extremely minute size, and they comprise most of the so-called animalculae which are found in Avater. In such animals the different parts of the cell are modi-THE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 87 fied to perform different functions. The different organs appear within the cell, and the cell is more complex than the typical cell described. Fig. 21 shows such a cell. Such an animal possesses several or- gans, but, since it consists of a single mass of protoplasm and a single nucleus, it is still only a single cell. In the multicellular organ- isms the organs of the body are made up of cells, and the different organs are produced by a dif- ferentiation of cells, but in the unicel- Fig. 21.—a complex cell, it is an lular organisms the entire animal, but composed of ° , only one cell. organs are the re- sults of the differentiation of the parts of a single cell. In the one case there is a differentia- tion of cells, and in the other of the parts of a cell. Such, in brief, is the cell to whose activities it is possible to trace the fundamental properties of all living things. Cells are endowed with the properties of irritability, contractibility, assimila- tion and reproduction, and it is thus plainly to the study of cells that we must look for an in- terpretation of life phenomena. If we can reach an intelligible understanding of the activities of the cell our problem is solved, for the activities88 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. of the fully formed animal or plant, however complex, are simply the application of mechani- cal and chemical principles among the groups ot such cells. But wherein does this knowledge of cells help us 1 Are we any nearer to understand- ing how these vital processes arise ? In answer to this question we may first ask whether it is possible to determine whether any one part of the cell is the seat of its activities. THE CELL WALL. The first suggestion which arose was that the cell wall was the important part of the cell, the others being secondary. This was not an un- natural conclusion. The cell wall is the most persistent part of the cell. It was the part first discovered by the microscope and is the part which remains after the other parts are gone. Indeed, in many of the so-called cells the cell wall is all that is seen, the cell contents having disappeared (Fig. 14). It was not strange, then, that this should at first have been looked upon as the primary part. The idea was that the cell wall in some way changed the chemical character of the substances in contact with its two sides, and thus gave rise to vital activities which, as we have seen, are fundamentally chemical. Thus the cell wall was regarded as the most essential part of the cell, since it controlled its activities. This was the belief of Schwann, although he also re- garded the other parts of the cell as of importance. This conception, however, was quite temporary. It was much as if our hypothetical supramundane observer looked upon the clothes of his newly89 THE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. discovered human being as forming the essential part of his nature. It was soon evident that this position could not be maintained. It was found that many bits of living matter were entirely destitute of cell wall. This is especially true of animal cells. While among plants the cell wall is almost always well developed, it is very common for animal cells to be entirely lacking in this external covering— as, for example, the white blood-cells. Fig. 22 shows an amoeba, a cell with very active powers of motion and assimilation, but with no cell wall. Moreover, young cells are always more active than older ones, and they com- monly possess either no cell wall or a very slight one, this being deposited as the cell becomes older and remaining long after it is dead. Such facts soon disproved the no'ion that the cell wall is a vital part of the cell, and a new conception took its place which was to have a more profound influence upon the study of living things than any discovery hitherto made. This was the formulation of the doctrine of the nature of protoplasm. Fig. 22.—An amoeba. A single cell without cell wall, n is the nucleus; /, a bit of food which the cell has absorbed.90 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. PROTOPLASM. (a) Discovery.—As it became evident that the cell wall is a somewhat inactive part of the cell, more attention was put on the cell contents. For twenty years after the formulation of the cell doctrine both the cell substance and the nucleus had been looked upon as essential to its activities. This was more especially true of the nucleus, which had been thought of as an organ of repro- duction. These suggestions appeared indefinitely in the writings of one scientist and another, and were finally formulated in 1860 into a general theory which formed what has sometimes been called the starting-point of modern biology. From that time the material known as protoplasm was elevated into a prominent position in the discussion of all subjects connected with living phenomena. The idea of protoplasm was first clearly defined by Schultze, who claimed that the real active part of the cell was the cell sub- stance within the cell wall. This substance he proved to be endowed with powers of motion and powers of inducing chemical changes asso- ciated with vital phenomena. He showed it to be the most abundant in the most active cells, becoming less abundant as the cells lose their ac- tivity, and disappearing when the cells lose their vitality. This cell substance was soon raised into a position of such importance that the smaller body within it was obscured, and for some twenty years more the nucleus was silently ignored in biological discussion. According to Schultze, the cell substance itself constituted the cell, the otherTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 91 parts being entirely subordinate, and indeed fre- quently absent. A cell was thus a bit of proto- plasm, and nothing more. But the more im- portant feature of this doctrine was not the simple conclusion that the cell substance consti- tutes the cell, but the more sweeping conclusion that this cell substance is in all cells essentially identical. The study of all animals, high and low, showed all active cells filled with a similar material, and more important still, the study of plant cells disclosed a material strikingly similar. Schultze experimented with this material by all means at his command, and finding that the cell substance in all animals and plants obeys the same tests, reached the conclusion that the cell substance in animals and plants is always identical. To this material he now gave the name protoplasm, choosing a name hitherto given to the cell contents of plant cells. From this time forth this term protoplasm was applied to the living material found in all cells, and became at once the most important factor in the discussion of biological problems. The importance of this newly formulated doctrine it is difficult to appreciate. Here, in protoplasm had been apparently found the foundation of living phenomena. Here was a substance universally present in animals and plants, simple and uniform—a substance always present in living parts and disappearing with death. It was the simplest thing that had life, and indeed the only thing that had life, for there is no life outside of cells and protoplasm. But simple as it was it had all the fundamental pro-92 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. perties of living things—irritability, contracti- bility, assimilation, and reproduction. It was a compound which seemiogly deserved the name of “ physical basis of Ufef which was soon given to it by Huxley. With this conception of proto- plasm as the physical basis of life the problems connected with the study of life became more simplified. In order to study the nature of life it was no longer necessary to study the confusing mass of complex organs disclosed to us by animals and plants, or even the somewhat less confusing structures shown by individual cells. Even the simple cell has several separate parts cap- able of undergoing great modifications in different types of animals. This confusion now appeared to vanish, for only one thing was found to be alive, and that was apparently very simple. But that substance exhibited all the properties of life. It moved, it could grow, and reproduce itself, so that it was necessary only to explain this sub- stance and life would be explained. (b) Nature of Protoplasm. — What is this material, protoplasm ? As disclosed by the early microscope it appeared to he nothing more than a simple mass of jelly, usually transparent, more or less consistent, sometimes being quite fluid, and at others more solid. Structure it appeared to have none. Its chief peculiarity, so far as physical characters were concerned, was a won- derful and never-ceasing activity. This jelly- like material appeared to be endowed with wonderful powers, and yet neither physical nor microscopical study revealed at first anything more than a uniform homogeneous mass of jelly.THE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 93 Chemical study of the same substance was of no less interest than the microscopical study. Of course it was no easy matter to collect this protoplasm in sufficient quantity and pure enough to make a careful analysis. The difficulties were in time, however, overcome, and chemical study showed protoplasm to be a proteid, related to other proteids like albumen, but one which was more complex than any other known. It was for a long time looked upon by many as a single definite chemical compound, and attempts were made to determine its chemical formula. Such an analysis indicated a molecule made up of several hundred atoms. Chemists did not, how- ever, look with much confidence upon these results, and it is not surprising that there was no very close agreement among them as to the number of atoms in this supposed complex molecule. Moreover, from the very first, some biologists thought protoplasm to be not one, but more likely a mixture of several substances. But although it was more complex than any other substance studied, its general characters were so like those of albumen that it was uni- formly regarded as a proteid ; but one which was of a higher complexity than others, forming per- haps the highest number of a series of complex chemical compounds, of which ordinary proteids, such as albumen, formed lower members. Thus, within a few years following the discovery of pro- toplasm there had developed a theory that living phenomena are due to the activities of a definite though complex chemical compound, composed chiefly of the elements carbon, oxygen, hydrogen.94 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. and nitrogen, and closely related to ordinary pro- teids. This substance was the basis of living activ- ity, and to its modification under different condi- tions were due the miscellaneous phenomena of life. (c) Significance of Protoplasm.—The philosophi- cal significance of this conception was very far-reaching. The problem of life was so sim- plified by substituting the simple protoplasm for the complex organism that its solution seemed to be not very difiicult. This idea of a chemical compound as the basis of all living phenomena gave rise in a short time to a chemical theory of life which was at least tenable, and which ac- counted for the fundamental properties of life. That theory, the chemical theoi'y of life, may be outlined somewhat as follows: The study of the chemical nature of substances derived from living organisms has developed into what has been called organic chemistry. Organic chemistry has shown that it is possible to manufacture artificially many of the compounds which are called organic, and which had been hitherto regarded as produced only by living organisms. At the beginning of the century, it was supposed to be impossible to manufacture by artificial means any of the compounds which animals and plants produce as the result of their life. But chemists were not long in showing that this position is untenable. Many of the organic products were soon shown capable of production by artificial means in the chemist’s laboratory. These organic compounds form a series beginning with such simple bodies as carbonic acid (COg), water (H2O), and ammoniaTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 95 (NHg), and passing up through a large number of members of greater and greater complexity, ail composed, however, chiefly of the elements carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen. Our chemists found that starting with simple sub- stances they could, by proper means, combine them into molecules of greater complexity, and in so doing could make many of the compounds that had hitherto been produced only as a result of living activities. For example, urea, formic acid, indigo, and many other bodies hitherto pro- duced only by animals and plants, were easily pro- duced by the chemist by purely chemical methods. Now when protoplasm had been discovered as the “ physical basis of life,” and, when it was fur- ther conceived that this substance is a proteid related to albumens, it was inevitable that a theory should arise which found the explanation of life in accordance with simple chemical laws. If, as chemists and biologists then believe, protoplasm is a compound which stands at the head of the organic series, and if, as is the fact, chemists are each year succeeding in making higher and higher members of the series, it is an easy assumption that some day they will be able to make the highest member of the series. Further, it is a well-known fact that simple chemical compounds have simple physical pro- perties, while the higher ones have more varied properties. Water has the property of being liquid at certain temperatures and solid at others, and of dividing into small particles {i.e. dissolving) certain bodies brought in contact with it. ThQ higher compound albumen has,96 THE STORY 0¥ LIFE'S MECHANISM. however, a great number of properties and possibilities of combination far beyond those of water. Now if the properties increase in com- plexity with the complexity of the compound, it is again an easy assumption that when we reach a compound as complex as protoplasm, it will have properties as complex as those of the simple life substance. Nor was this such a very wild hypothesis. After all, the funda- mental life activities may all be traced to the simple oxidation of food, for this results in movement, assimilation, and growth, and the result of growth is reproduction. It was there- fore only necessary for our biological chemists to suppose that their chemical compound proto- plasm possessed the power of causing certain kinds of oxidation to take place, just as water itself induces a simpler kind of oxidation, and they would have a mechanical explanation of the life activities. It was certainly not a very absurd assumption to make, that this substance protoplasm could have this power, and from this the other vital activities are easily derived. In other words, the formulation of the doctrine of protoplasm made it possible to assume that life is not a distinct force, but simply a name given to the properties possessed by that highly complex chemical compound protoplasm. Just as we might give the name aguacity to the pro- perties possessed by water, so we have actually given the name vitality to the properties possessed by protoplasm. To be sure, vitality is more marvellous than aquacity, but so is protoplasm a more complex compound than water. ThisTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 97 cornpound was a very unstable compound, just as is a mass of gunpowder, and hence it is highly irritable, also like gunpowder, and any disturb- ance of its condition produces motion, just as a spark will do in a mass of gunpowder. It is capable of inducing oxidation in foods, some- thing as water induces oxidation in a bit of iron The oxidation is, however, of a different kind, and results in the formation of different chemical combinations; but it is the basis of assimilation. Since now assimilation is the foundation of growth and reproduction, this mechanical theory of life thus succeeded in trac- mg to the simple properties of the chemical com- rr fP® fundamental properties ot life. Since further, as we have seen in our first chapter, the more complex properties of higher or- pnisms are easily deduced from these simple ones by the application of the laws of mechanics we have here in this mechanical theory of life the complete reduction of the body to a machine. THE REIGN OF PROTOPLASM. This substance protoplasm became now natur- ally the centre of biological thought. The theory of protoplasm arose at about the same time that the doctrine of evolution began to be seriously discussed under the stimulus of Darwin, and naturally these two great conceptions developed side by side. Evolution was constantly teaching that natural forces are sufficient to account for many of the complex phenomena which had hitherto been regarded as insolvable; and what more natural than that the same kind of thinking98 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. should be applied to the vital activities mani- fested by this substance, protoplasm. While the study of plants and animals was showing scien- tists that natural forces would explain the origin of more complex types from simpler ones through the law of natural selection, here in this concep- tion of protoplasm was a theory which promised to show how the simplest forms may have been derived from the non-living. For an explanation of the origin of life by natural means appeared now to be a simple matter.^ It required now no violent stretch of the imagination to explain the origin of life some- thing as follows W^e know that the chemical elements have certain affinities for each other, and will unite with each other under proper con- ditions. We know that the methods of union and the resulting compounds vary with the con- ditions under which the union takes place. W^e know further that the elements carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen have most remarkable pro- perties, and unite to form an almost endless series of remarkable bodies when brought into^ combination under different conditions. We know that by varying the conditions the chemist can force these elements to unite into a most extraordinary variety of compounds with an equal variety of properties. What more natural, then, than the assumption that under certain conditions these same elements would unite in such a way as to form this compound protoplasm; and then, if the ideas concerning protoplasm were correct, this body would show the properties of protoplasm, and therefore be alive. CertainlyTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 99 such a supposition was not absurd, and viewed in the light of the rapid advance in the manu- facture of organic compounds could hardly be called improbable. Chemists beginning with HgO were climbing the ladder, each round of which was represented by compounds of higher complexity. At the top was protoplasm, and each year saw our chemists nearer the top of the ladder, and thus approach- ing protoplasm as their final goal. They now began to predict that only a few more years would be required for chemists to discover the proper conditions, and thus make protoplasm. As late as 1880 the prediction was freely made that the next great discovery would be the manufacture of a bit of protoplasm by artificial artificial production of j j 7^ rapid advance in organic chemistry ren- dered this prediction each year more and more probable. The ability of chemists to manufacture chemical compounds appeared to be unlimited, and the only question in regard to their ability to make protoplasm thus resolved itself into the question of whether protoplasm is really a chemical compound. e can easily understand how eager biologists became now in pursuit of the goal which seemed almost within their reach; how interested they were in any new discovery, and how eagerly they sought for lower and simpler types of proto- plasm since these would be a step nearer to the earliest undififerentiated life substance. Indeed so eager was this pursuit for pure undifferentiated protoplasm, that it led to one of those unfounded discoveries which time showed to be purely im-100 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. aginary. When this reign of protoplasm was at its height and biologists were seeking for even greater simplicity a most astounding discovery was announced. The British exploring ship Challenger had returned from its voyage of dis- covery and collection, and its various treasures were turned over to the diflerent scientists for study. The brilliant Prof. Huxley, who had first formulated the mechanical theory of life, now startled the biological world with the statement that these collections had shown him that at the bottom of the deep sea, in certain parts ot the world, there exists a diffused mass of living undifferentiated protoplasm. So simple and un- differentiated was it that it was not divided into cells and contained no nucleii. It was, in short, exactly the kind of primitive protoplasm which the evolutionist wanted to complete his chain of living structures, and the biologist wanted to serve as a foundation for his mechanical theory of life. If such a diffused mass of undifferentiated protoplasm existed at the bottom of the ^^a, one could hardly doubt that it was developed there by some purely natural forces. The discovery was a startling one, for it seemed that the actual starting point of life had been reached. Huxley named his substance Bathyhias, and this name became in a short time familiar to every ^ho was thinking of the problems of life. But ttie discovery was suspected from the it was too closely in accord with speculation, an it was soon disproved. Its discoverer soon after courageously announced to the world tbat he had been entirely mistaken, and that the Bathy i i101 THE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. SO far from being undifferentiated protoplasm, was not an organic product at all, but simply a mineral deposit in the sea water made by purely artificial means. Bathybias stands therefore as an instance of a too precipitate advance in specula- tion, which led even such a brilliant man as Prof. Huxley into an unfortunate error of observation j for, beyond question, he would never have made such a mistake had he not been dominated by his speculative theories as to the nature of protoplasm. But although Bathybias proved delusive, this did not materially affect the advance and develop- ment of the doctrine of protoplasm. Simple forms of protoplasm were found, although none quite so simple as the hypothetical Bathybias. The universal presence of protoplasm in the living parts of all animals and plants and its naanifest activities completely demonstrated that it was the only living substance, and as the result of a few years of experiment and thought the biologist s conception of life crystallised into something like this : Living organisms are made of cells, but these cells are simply minute in- dependent bits of protoplasm. They may con- tain a nucleus or they may not, but the essence of the cell is the protoplasm, this alone hav- ing the fundamental activities of life. These bits of living matter aggregate themselves to- gether into groups to form colonies. Such colonies are animals or plants. The cells divide the wnrk of the colony among themselves, each cell adopting a form best adapted for the special work it has to do. The animal or plant is thus simply an aggregate of cells, and its activities are102 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. the sum of the activities of its separate cells; just as the activities of a city are the sum of the activities of its individual inhabitants. The bit of protoplasm was the unit, and this was a chemical compound or a simple mixture of com- pounds to whose combined physical properties we have given the name vitality. THE DECLINE OF THE REIGN OF PROTOPLASM. Hardly had this extreme chemical theory of life been clearly conceived before accumulating facts began to show that it is untenable and that it must at least be vastly modified before it can be received. The foundation of the chemical theory of life was the conception that protoplasm is a definite though complex chemical compound. But after a few years’ study it appeared that such a concep- tion of protoplasm was incorrect. It had long been suspected that protoplasm was more complex than was at first thought. It was not even at the outset found to be perfectly homogeneous, but was seen to contain minute granules, together with bodies of larger size. Although these bodies were seen they were regarded as accidental or secondary, and were not thought of as forming any serious objection to the conception of proto- plasm as a definite chemical compound. But modern opticians improved their microscopes, and microscopists greatly improved their methods. With the new microscopes and new methods there began to appear, about twenty years ago, new revelations in regard to this protoplasm. Its lack of homogeneity became more evident, until there has finally been disclosed to us the103 THE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. significant fact as a substance high mechani- cal complex- ity. The idea of this material as a simple homogeneous compound or as a mixture of such com- pounds is ab- solutely falla- cious. Proto- plasm is to-day known to be made up of parts harmoni- ously adapted to each other in such a way as to form an that protoplasm is to be regarded not only of chemical but also of Fig 23 —a cell as it appears to the modem micro- scope. a, protoplasmic reticulum; 6, liquid in its meshes; c, nuclear membrane; rf, nuclear reticulum ; e, chromatin reticulum; /, nucleolus ; pjcentrosomc; /i, centrosphere; vacuole ; j, inert bodies. extraordinarily intricate machine; and the micro- scopist of to-day recognizes clearly that the acti- vities of this material must be regarded as the result of the machinery which makes up proto- plasm rather than as the simple result of its chemical composition. Protoplasm is a machine and not a chemical compound. STRUCTURE OF PROTOPLASM. The structure of protoplasm is not yet thoroughly understood by scientists, but a few general facts are known beyond question. It is104 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. thought, in the first place, that it consists of two quite different substances. There is a some- what solid material permeating it, usually re- garded as having a reticulate structure. It is variously described, sometimes as a reticulate network, sometimes as a mass of threads or fibres, and sometimes as a mass of foam (Fig. 23, a). It is extremely delicate and only visible under special conditions and with the best of microscopes. Only under peculiar conditions can it be seen in protoplasm while alive. There is no question, however, that all protoplasm is permeated when alive by a minute delicate mass of material, which may take the form of threads or fibres or may assume other forms. Within the meshes of this thread or reticulum there is found a liquid, perfectly clear and transparent, to whose presence the liquid character of the protoplasm is due (Fig. 23, h). In this liquid no structure can be determined, and, so far as we know, it is homogeneous. Still further study discloses other complexities. It appears that the fibrous material is always marked by the presence of excessively minute bodies, which have been called by various names, but which we will speak of as mirrosomes. Sometimes, indeed, the fibres themselves appear almost like strit\gs of beads, so that they have been described as made up of rows of minute elements. It is immaterial for our pur- pose, however, whether the fibres are to be re- garded as made up of microsomes or not. This much is sure, that these microsomes—granules of excessive minuteness—occur in protoplasm and are closely connected with the fibres (Fig. 23, a).THE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 105 THE NUCLEUS. (a) Presence of a Nucleus.—If protoplasm has thus become a new substance in our minds as the result of the discoveries of the last twenty years, far more marvellous have been the dis- coveries made in connection with that body which has been called the nucleus. Even by the early microscopists the nucleus was recognized, and during the first few years of the cell doctrine it was frequently looked upon as the most active part of the cell and as especially connected with its reproduction. The doctrine of protoplasm, however, so captivated the minds of biologists that for quite a number of years the nucleus was ignored, at least in all discussions connected with the nature of life. It was a body in the cell whose presence was unexplained and which did not fall into accord with the general view of protoplasm as the physical basis of life. Eor a while, therefore, biologists gave little attention to it, and were accustomed to speak of it simply as a bit of protoplasm a little more dense than the rest. The cell was a bit of protoplasm with a small piece^ of more dense protoplasm in its centre appearing a little ditferent from the rest and perhaps the most active part of the cell. As a result of this excessive belief in the efficiency of protoplasm the question of the presence of a nucleus in the cell was for a while looked upon as one of comparatively little importance. Many cells were found to have nuclei! while others did not show their presence and microscopists therefore believed that the106 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. presence of a nucleus was not necessary to constitute a cell. A German naturalist recog- nized among lower animals one group whose distinctive characteristic was that they were made of cells without nucleii, giving the name Monera to the group. As the method of study- ing cells improved microscopists learned better methods of discerning the presence of the nucleus, and as it was done little by little they began to find the presence of nucleii in cells in which they had hitherto not been seen. As microscopists now studied one after another of these animals and plants whose cells had been said to contain no nucleus, they began to find nucleii in them, until the conclusion was finally reached that a nucleus is a fundamental part of all active cells. Old cells which have lost their activity may not show nucleii, but, so far as we know, all active cells possess these structures, and apparently no cell can carry on its activity without them. Some cells have several nucleii, and others have the nuclear matter scattered through the whole cell instead of being aggre- gated into a mass; but nuclear matter of the cell must have to carry on its life. Later the experiment was made of depriving cells of their nucleii, and it still further empha- sized the importance of the nucleus. Among unicellular animals are some which are large . enough for direct manipulation, and it is found that if these cells are cut into pieces the different pieces will behave very differently in accordance with whether or not they have within them a piece of the nucleus. All the pieces are capableTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 107 of carrying on their life activities for a while. The pieces of the cell which contain the nucleus of the original cell, or even a part of it, are capable of carrying on all its life activities perfectly well. In Fig. 24 is shown such a cell cut into three pieces, each of which con- tains a piece of the nucleus. Each carries on Its life activities, feeds, grows and multiplies perfectly well, the life pro- cesses seeming to continue as if nothing had happened. Quite different is it with frag- ments which contain none of the nucleus (Fig.25). These fragments (1 and 3), even though they may be com- p a ra t i vely large masses of protoplasm, are incapable of carrying on the functions of their life continu- ously. For a while they continue to move around and apparently act like the other fragments, but after a little their life ceases. They are incapable of assimilating food and incapable of reproduc- tion, and hence their life cannot continue very Fig. 24.—a cell cut into three pieces, each contflinin^ a, bit of the nucleus. Each, con- tinues its lifo indefinitely, soon acouiring the form of the original as at <7.108 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. long. Facts like these demonstrate conclusively the vital importance of the nucleus in cell activ- ity, and show us that the cell, with its power of continued life, must be regarded as a combina- tion of proto- plasm with its nucleus, and cannot exist without it. It is not proto- plasm, but cell substance, plus cell nucleus, which forms the simplest basis of life. As more careful study of protoplasm was made it soon became evident that there is a very decided dif- ference be- tween the nu- cleus and the protoplasm. The old statement that the nucleus is simply a bit of dense protoplasm is not true. In its chemical and physical composition as well as ill its activities the nucleus shows itself to be entirely different from the protoplasm. It con- tains certain definite bodies not found in the Fio. 25.—A cell cut into three pieces, only one of which, No. 2, contains any nucleus. This fragment soon acquires the original form and continues its life indefinitely, as shown at B. The other two pieces though living for a time, die without reproducing.THE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 109 cell substance, and it goes through a series of activities which are entirely unrepresented in the surrounding protoplasm. It is some- thing entirely distinct, and its relations to the life of the cell are unique and marvellous. These various facts led to a period in the dis- cussion of biological topics which may not in- appropriately be called the Eeign of the Nucleus. Let us, therefore, see what this structure is which has demanded so much attention in the last twenty years. (b) Structure of the Nucleus.—At first the nucleus appears to be very much like the cell substance. Like the latter, it is made of fibres, which form a reticulum (Fig. 23), and these fibres, like those of protoplasm, have micro- somes in intimate relation with them and hold a clear liquid in their meshes. The meshes of the network are usually rather closer than in the outer cell substance, but their general character appears to be the same. But a more close study of the nucleus discloses vast differ- ences. In the first place, the nucleus is usually separated from the cell substance by a membrane (Fig. 23, c). This membrane is almost always present, but it may disappear, and usually does disappear, when the nucleus begins to divide. Within the nucleus we find commonly one or two smaller bodies, the nucleoli (Fig. 23, /). They appear to be distinct vital parts of the nucleus, and thus different from certain other solid bodies which are simply excreted material, and hence lifeless. Further, we find that the reticulum within the nucleus is made up of two very differ-110 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. ent parts. One portion is apparently identical with the reticulum of the cell substance (Fig. 23, d). This forms an extremely delicate network, whose fibres have chemical relations similar to those of the cell substance. Indeed, sometimes, the fibres of the nucleus may be seen to pass directly into those of the network of the cell substance, and hence they are in all probability identical. This material is called linin, by which name we shall hereafter refer to it. There is, however, in the nucleus another material which forms either threads, or a network, or a mass of granules, which is very different from the linin, and has entirely different properties. This network has the power of absorbing certain kinds of stains very actively, and is consequently deeply stained when treated as the microscopist commonly pre- pares his specimens. For this reason it has been named chromatin (Fig. 23, e), although in more recent times other names have been given to it. Of all parts of the cell this chromatin is the most remarkable. It appears in great variety in different cells, but it always has remarkable physiological properties, as will be noticed pre- sently. All things considered, this chromatin is probably the most remarkable body connected with organic life. The nucleii of different animals and plants all show essentially the characteristics just described. They all contain a liquid, a linin network, and a chromatin thread or network, but they differ most remarkably in details, so that the variety among the nucleii is almost endless (Fig. 26). They difi'er first in their sizeTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. HI relative to the size of the cell; sometimes especially in young cells—the nucleus being very large, while in other cases the nucleus is very small and the protoplasmic contents of the cell very large; finally, in cells which have lost their activity the nucleus may almost or entirely disappear. They difTer, secondly, in shape. The typical form appears to be spherical or nearly 80; but from this typical form they may vary. Fiq. 26.—Different forms of nucleil. becoming irregular or elongated. They are some- tinies drawn out into long masses looking like a string of beads (Fig. 24), or, again, resembling minute coiled worms (Fig. 21), while in still other cells they may be branching like the twigs of a tree. The form and shape of the chromatin thread differs widely. Sometimes this appears to be mere reticulum (Fig. 23) • at others, a short thread which is somewhat twisted112 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. or coiled (Fig. 26) ; while in other cells the chromatin thread is an extremely long, very much twisted convolute thread so complexly woven into a tangle as to give the appearance of a minute network. The nuclei! differ also in the number of nucleoli they contain as well as in other less important particulars. Fig. 26 will give a little notion of the variety to be found among different nuclei! ; but although they thus do vary most remarkably in shape in the essential parts of their structure they are alike. CENTROSOME. Before noticing the activities of the nucleus it will be necessary to mention a third part of the cell. Within the last few years there has been found to be present in most cells an organ which has been called the centrosome. This body is shown at Fig. 23, g. It is found in the cell substance just outside the nucleus, and com- monly appears as an extremely minute rounded dot, so minute that no internal structure has been discerned. It may be no larger than the minute granules or microsomes in the cell, and until recently it entiiely escaped the notice of micro- scopists. It has now, however, been clearly demonstrated as an active part of the cell and entirely distinct from the ordinary microsomes. It stains differently, and, as we shall soon see, it appears to be in most intimate connection with the centre of cell life. In the activities which characterize cell life this centrosome appears to lead the way. From it radiate the forces whichTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 113 control cell activity, and hence this centrosome is dynamic centre of the cell. This leads us to the study of cell activity which discloses to us some of the most extraordinary oUdeZT knowledge FUNCTION OF THE NUCLEUS. tak» ***® ““lew has W»I prominent position in modern bio- logical discussion it will be only necessarv to notice some of the activities of the cell, o/the one"^ JhhdiT'^'’properties of cell life the studied and in regard to which most is known is reproduction This toowledge appears chiefly under two heads viz wff dtmwn and the feHilizatim of the egg. Every animal and plant begins its life Is a s^neU^ and the growth of the cell into thrlduir is simply the division of the original cell into mrt. accompanied by a differentiaCn of the pTtt The fundamental phenomena of growth a^d re* DreS“t\^'’® ‘^■"S'on, and if we can com- prehend this process in these simple cells wp shall certainly have taken a great step toward the exp anation of the mechanics of life.^ During the last ten years this cell division has been most thoroughly studied, and we have a prettv good knowledge of it so far as its miLscS features are concerned. The following descrin- ion will outline the general facts of such ceU division and will apply with considerable at curacy to all cases of cell division alfhrmo-L th details may differ not a little ^ H114 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. CELL DIVISION OR KARYOKINESIS. We will begin with a cell in what is called the resting stage, shown at Fig. 23. Such a cell has a nucleus, with its chromatin, its membrane, and linin, as already described. Outside the nucleus is the centrosome, or, more commonly, two ot them lying close together. If there is only one it soon divides into two, and if it has already two, this is because a single centrosome which the cell originally possessed has already divided into two, as we shall presently see. This cell, in short, is precisely like the typical cell which we have described, except in the possession of two centrosomes. The first indication of the cell division is shown by the chromatin fibres. During the resting stage this matin material may have the form of a thread, or may form a network of fibres (see rig. 27]. But whatever be its form during the resting stage, it assumes the form of a thread as the cel prepares for division. Almost at once this thread breaks into a number of pieces known as chromo- somes (Fig. 28). It is an extremely important fact that the number of these chromosomes in the ordinary cells of any animal or plant is always the same. In other words, in all the cells of the body of animal or plant the chromatin material in the nucleus breaks into the same number ot short threads at the time that the cell is prepaiing to divide. The number is the same for all animals of the same species, and is never departed from. For example, the number in the ox is always sixteen, while the number in the lily is alwaysTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 115 twenty-four. During this process of the forma- tion of the chromosomes the nucleoli disappear, sometimes being absorbed apparently in the chromosomes, and sometimes being ejected into the cell body, where they disappear. Whether they have anything to do with further changes is not yet known. The next step in the process of division appears ce 27. Fia. 28. following figures show stages in cell division, g. 27 shows the resting stage with the chromatin, cr, in the form of a netwoi±, within the nuclear membrane and the centrosome ce, already divided into two. chromatin is broken into threads or chromosomes, cr. The centrosomes show radiating fibres. ’ in the region of the centrosomes. Each of the two centrosomes appears to send out from itself delicate radiating fibres into the surrounding cell substance (Fig. 28). Whether these actually arise from the centrosome or are simply a re- arrangement of the fibres in the cell substance IS not clear, but at all events the centrosome becomes surrounded by a mass of radiating fibres116 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. which give it a starlike appearance, or, more commonly, the appearance of a double star, since there are two centrosomes close together (Fig. 28). These radiating fibres, whether arising from the centrosomes or not, certainly all centre in these bodies, a fact which indicates that the centro- somes contain the forces which regulate their appearance. Between the two stars or asters a set of fibres can be seen running from one to the other (Fig. 29). These two asters and the Fig. 29. UTf, 29 The centrosomes are separating hut are connected by fibres. Fig' 30. The centrosomes are separate and the equatorial plate of chromosomes, cr, is between them. centrosomes within them have been spoken of as the dynamic centre of the cell since they appear to control the forces which lead to cell division. In all the changes which follow these asters lead the way. The two asters, with their centro somes, now move away from each other, always connected by the spindle fibres, and finally come to lie on opposite sides of the nucleus (Figs. 29, 30). When they reach this position they are still surrounded by the radiating fibres, and con-117 THE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. nected by the spindle fibres. Meantime the menibrane around the nucleus has disappeared, and thus the spindle fibres readily penetrate into the nuclear substance (Fig. 30). During this time the chromosomes have been changing their position. Whether this change in position is due to forces within themselves, or whether they are moved around passively by forces residing in the cell substances, or whether which IS the most probable, they are pulled or pushed around by the spindle fibres which are forcing their way into the nucleus, is not posi- tively known; nor is it, for our purposes, of special importance. At all events, the result IS that when the asters have assumed their position at opposite poles of the nucleus the chromosomes are arranged in a plane passing through the middle of the nucleus at equal distances from each aster. It seems certain that they are pulled or pushed into this position by forces radiating from the centrosomes. Fig. 30 shows this central arrangement of the chromo- somes, forming what is called the equcdorial plate. The next step is the most significant of all. ^ consists in the splitting of each chromosome into two equal halves. The threads do not divide in their middle hut split lengthwise, so that there are formed two halves identical in every respect. In this way are produced twice the original number of chromosomes, but all in pairs. The period at which this splitting of the chromosomes occurs IS not the same in all cells. It may occur, as described, at about the time the asters118 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. have reached the opposite poles of the nucleus, and an equatorial plate is formed. It is not infrequent, however, for it to occur at a period considerably earlier, so that the chromosomes are already divided when they are brought into the equatorial plate. ^ _ _ At some period or other in the cell division this splitting of the chromosomes takes place. The significance of the splitting is especially noteworthy. We shall soon find reason for Fig* 31, Fig. 32. Fig. 31.—-stage showing the two halves of the chromosomes separated from each other. , PiQ 32 Final stage with two nucleil in which the chromosomes have again assumed the form of a network. The centrosomes have divided preparatory to the next division, and the cell is beginning to divide. believing that the chromosomes contain all the hereditary traits which the cell hands down from generation to generation, and indeed that the chromosomes of the egg contain all the traits which the parent hands down to the child. Now, if this chromatin thread consists of a series of units, each representing certain hereditary characters, then it is plain that the divisionTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 11^ of the thread by splitting will give rise to a double series of threads, each of which has identical characters. Should the division occur across the thread the two halves would be unlike, but taking place as it does by a longitudinal splitting, each unit in the thread simply divides in half, and thus the resulting half threads each contain the same number of similar units as the other and the same as possessed by the original undivided chromosome. This sort of splitting thus doubles the number of chromo- somes, but produces no differentiation of material. The next step in the cell division consists in the separation of the two halves of the chromo- somes. Each half of each chromosome separates from its fellow, and moves to the opposite end of the nucleus towards the two centrosomes (Fig. 31). Whether they are pulled apart or pushed apart by the spindle fibres is not certain, although it is apparently sure that these fibres from the centrosomes are engaged in the matter. Certain it is that some force exerted from the two centro- somes acts upon the chromosomes, and forces the two halves of each one to opposite ends of the nucleus, where they now collect and form two new nucleii, with evidently exactly the same number of chromosomes as the original, and with characters identical to each other and to the original (Fig. 32). The rest of the cell division now follows rapidly. A partition grows in through the cell body dividing it into two parts (Fig. 32), the division passing through the middle of the spindle. In this division, in some cases at least,i20 THE STORY OF LIFERS MECHANISM. the spindle fibres bear a part—a fact which again points to the importance of the centro- somes and the forces which radiate from them. Now the chromosomes in each daughter nucleus unite to form a single thread, or may diffuse through the nucleus to form a network, as in Fig. 32. They now become surrounded by a membrane, so that the new nucleus appears exactly like the original one. The spindle fibres disappear, and the astral fibres may either dis- appear or remain visible. The centrosome may apparently in some cases disappear, but more commonly remains beside the daughter nucleii, or it may move into the nucleus. Eventually it divides into two, the division commonly occur- ring at once (Fig. 32), but sometimes not until the next cell division is about to begin. Thus the final result shows two cells each with a nucleus and two centrosomes, and this is exactly the same sort of structure with which the process began. Viewed as a whole, we may make the follow- ing general summary of this process. The essen- tial object of this complicated phenomena of karyoJcinesis is to divide the chromatin into equivalent halves, so that the cells resulting from the cell division shall contain an exactly equiva- lent chromatin content. For this purpose the chromatic elements collect into threads and split lengthwise. The centrosome, with its fibres, brings about the separation of these two halves. Plainly, we must conclude that the chromatin material is something of extraordinary import- ance to the cell, and the centrosome is a bit of121 the cell and protoplasm. machinery for controlling its division and thus regulating cell division. fertilization of the egg. ^ This description of cell division will certainly give some idea of the complexity of cell life, but a more marvellous series of changes still takes place during the time when the 6gg is preparing for development. Inasmuch as this process still further illustrates the nature of the cell, and has further a most intimate bearing upon the funda- mental problem'of heredity, it will be necessary for us to consider it here briefly. The sexual reproduction of the many-celled animals is always essentially alike. A single one of the body cells is set apart to start the next generation, and this cell, after separating from the body of the animal or plant which produced it, begins to divide, as already shown in Tig. 8, and the many cells which arise from it eventually form the new individual. This reproductive cell IS the egg. ^ But before its division can begin there occurs in all cases of sexual reproduction a process called fertilization, the essential feature of which is the union of this cell with another commonly from a different individual. While the phenomenon is subject to considerable differ- ence in details, it is essentially as follows : The female reproductive cell is called the ess and it is this cell which divides to form the next generation. Such a cell is shown in Fig 33 Like other cells it has a cell wall, a cell’sub- stance with its linin and fluid portions, a nucleus122 THE STORT OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. surrounded by a membrane and containing a reticulum, a nucleolus and chromatic material, and lastly, a centrosome. Now such an egg is a complete cell, but it is not able to begin the process of division which shall give rise to a new individual until it has united with another cell of quite a different sort and commonly dei ived from a different individual called the male. AVhy the egg cell is unable to develop without such union with male cell does not concern us here, but its purpose will be evident as the descrip- tion proceeds. The egg cell as it comes from the ovary of the female individ- ual is, however, not yet ready for union with the male cell, but must first nucleolus. through a series of somewhat remarkable changes con- stituting what is called maturation of the egg. This phenomenon has such an intimate relation to all problems connected with the cell, that it must be described somewhat in detail. There are considerable differences in the details of the process as it occurs in various animals, but they all agree in the fundamental points. The follow- FiG. 33.—An egg showing the cell substance, and the nucleus, the latter containing chromosomes in large number and a123 THE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. ing is a general description of the process derived from the study of a large variety of animals and plants. In the^ cells of the body of the animal to which this description applies there are four chromosomes. This is true of all the cells of the animal except the sexual cells. The eggs arise from_ the other cells of the body, but during their growth the chromatin splits in such a way that the egg contains double the number Fig. 34. Fig. 3.'5. following figures represent the process of fertilization of an egg. In all figures cr is the chromosomes* cs represents the cell substance (omitted in the following n^^es) ; me is the male reproductive cell lying in contact Fin nucleus after entering the egg Fig. 35.—The egg centrosome has divided, and the male cell with its centrosome has entered the egg of chromosomes, i.e. eight (Fig. 34). If this egg should now unite with the other reproductive cell from the male, the resulting fertilized egg would plainly contain a number of chromosomes larger than that normal for this species of animal. As a result the next generation would have a larger number of chromosomes in each cell than124 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. the last generation, since the division of the egg in development is like that already described, and always results in producing new cells with the same number of chromosomes as the starting cell. Hence, if the number of chromosomes in the next generation is to be kept equal to that in the last generation, this egg cell must get^ rid of a part of its chromatin material. This is done by a process shown in Fig. 35. ^ The^centrosome divides as in ordinary cell division (big. 35), and after rotating on its axis it approaches the surface Fig. 36. jmg. ok The ecg centrosomes have changed their position. The maie cell with its centrosome remains inactive until the stage Fig.*It!—B^g^lnn?ng‘o/t^ first division for removing superfluous chromosomes. of the egg (Figs. 36 and 37). The egg now divides (Fig. 38), but the division is of a peculiar kind. Although the chromosomes divide equally the e<^g itself d'ivides into two very unequal parts, one part still appearing as the egg and the as a minute protuberance called the polar cell (pc in Fi". 38). The chromosomes do not split as they do in the cell division already described,THE CELL AND TROTOPLASM. 125 but each of these two cells, the egg and the polar body, receives four chromosomes (Fig. 38). The result is that the egg has now the normal number of chromosomes for the ordinary cells of the ani- mal in question. Bat this is still too many, for the egg is soon to unite with the male cell; and this male cell, as we shall see, is to bring in its own quotg, of chromosomes. Hence the egg must get rid of still more of its chromatin material. Fig. 38. Fig. 39. Fig. 40. So' division complete and first polar cell formeJ. pc'. r iG. 39.—Formation of the second polar cell, riG. 40.—Completion of the process of extrusion of the chromatic material ;/t» shows the two chromosomes retained in the eg? forming the female pronucleus. Tfie centrosome has disappeared. Consequently, the first division is followed by a second (Fig. 39), in which there is again pro- duced a large and a small cell. This division, like the first, occurs without any splitting of the chromosomes, one half of the remaining chromo- somes being ejected in this new cell, the second polar cell (^c") leaving the larger cell, the egg.126 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. with just one half the number of chromosomes normal for the cells of the animal in question. Meantime the first pole cell has also divided, so that we have now, as shown in Fig. 40, four cells, three small and one large, but each con- taining one half the normal number of chromo- somes. In the example figured, four is the normal number for the cells of the animal. The egg at the beginning of the process contained efght, but has now been reduced to two. In the further history of the egg the smaller cells, called polar cells, take no part, since they soon disappear and have nothing to do with the animal which is to result from the further division of the egg. This process of the for- mation of the polar cells is thus simply a device for getting rid of some of the chromatin material in the egg cell, so that it may unite with a second cell without doubling the normal number of chromosomes. Previously to this process the other sexual cell, the spermatozoon, or male reproductive cell, has been undergoing a somewhat similar process. This is also a true cell (Fig. 34, me), although it is of a decidedly smaller size than the egg and of a very different shape. It contains cell substance, a nucleus with chromosomes, and a centrosome, the number of chromosomes, as shown later, being ho^^^ever only lialf^ that normal for the ordinary cells of the animals. The study of the development of the sperma- tozoon shows that it has come from cells which contained the normal number of four, but that this number has been reduced to one half by aTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 127 process which is equivalent to that which we have just noticed in the egg. Thus it comes about that each of the sexual elements, the egg and the spermatozoon, now contains one half the normal number of chromosomes. Now by some mechanical means these two reproductive cells are brought in contact with each other, shown in Fig. 34, and as soon as they are brought into each other’s vicinity the male cell buries its head in the body of the egg. The tail by which it has been moving is cast off, and the head containing the chromosomes and the centrosome enters the egg, forming what is called the male pronucleus (Fig. 35-38, mn). This entrance of the male cell occurs either before the formation of the polar cells of the egg or afterward. If, however, it takes place before, the male pronucleus simply remains dor- mant in the egg while the polar cells are being protruded, and not until after that process is concluded does it begin again to show signs of activity which result in the cell union. The further steps in this process appear to be controlled by the centrosome, although it is not quite certain whence this centrosome is derived. Originally, as we have seen, the egg contained a centrosome, and the male cell has also brought a second into the egg (Fig. 35, ce). In some cases,^ and this is true for the worm we are describing, it is certain that the egg centrosome disappears while that of the spermatozoon is re- tained alone to direct the further activities (Fig. 41).. Possibly this may be the case in all eggs, but it is not sure. It is a matter of some little128 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. interest to have this settled, for if it should prove true, then it would evidently follow that the machinery for cell division, in the case of sexual reproduction, is derived from the father, although the bulk of the cell comes from the mother, while the chromosomes come from both parents. In the cases where the process has been most carefully studied, the further changes are as follows: The head of the spermatozoon, after entrance into the egg, lies dormant until the egg pjQ 42 The centrosome has divided, and the two pronucleii have *been brought together. The network in each nucleus has again resolved itself into two chromosomes which are now brought together near the centre of the egg but* do not fuse; 7«cr, repre- sents the chromosomes from the male nucleus; /cr, the chromo- somes from the female nucleus. has thrown off its polar cells, and thus gotten rid of part of its chromosomes. Close to it lies its centrosomes (Fig. 35, ce), and there is thus formed what is known as the male pronucleus (Fig. 35-40, mn). The remains of the egg nucleus, after having discharged the polar cells,129 THE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. form the female nucleus (Fig. 40,». The chro- matin material, in both the male and female pronucleus, soon breaks up into a network in which It IS no longer possible to see that each contains two chromosomes (Fig. 41). Now the centrosome, which is beside the male pronucleus shows signs of activity. It becomes surrounded hy prominent rays to form an aster (Fig. 41 ce) and then it begins to move toward the female pronucleus, apparently dragging the male pro- nucleus after it. In this way the centrosome approaches the female pronucleus, and thus tinally the two nuclei! are brought into close proximity. Meantime the chromatin material in each has once more broken up into short threads or chromosomes, and once more we find that each ot the nucleii contains two of these bodies (Fig. 42) In the subsequent figures the chromosomes of the male nucleus are lightly shaded, while those of the female are black in order to dis- tinguish them. As these two nucleii finally come together their membranes disappear, and the chromatic material comes to lie freely in the egg, the male and female chromosomes, side by side, but distinct forming the segmentation nucleus The egg plainly now contains once number of chromosomes normal for the cells of the animal, but half of them have been erived from each parent. It is very suggestive ? ^nd further that the chromosomes in this fertilized egg do not fuse with each other but remain quite distinct, so that it can be seen that the new nucleus contains chromosomes derived from each parent (Fig. 42). Nor does130 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. there appear to be, in the future history of this ecrs any actual fusion of the chromatic material, the’male and female chromosomes perhaps always remaining distinct. While this mixture of chromosomes has been taking place the centrosome has divided into two parts each of which becomes surrounded by an aster’and travels to opposite ends of the nucleus (Fig. 42). There now follows a division ot the nucleus exactly similar to that which occurs m Fig. 43. Fig. 44. J: l(Jr* “xO. Fig 43 —An equatorial plate is formed and each chromosome has ntcM eachlShmale and female chromoeomea. The egg has divided into two cells. the normal cell division already described in Fic^s 28-34 Each of the chromosomes splits lengthwise (Fig. 43), and one half of each then travels toward each centrosome to form a new nucleus (Fig. 44). Since each of the four somes thus splits, it follows that each of the two daughter nucleii will, of course, contain four chromosomes; two of which have been derive from the male and two from the female parent,THE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 131 From now the divisions of the egg follow rapidly by the normal process of cell division until from this one egg cell there are eventually derived hundreds of thousands of cells which are gradu- ally moulded into the adult. All of these cells will, of course, contain four chromosomes ^ and what is more important, half of the chromo- somes will have been derived directly from the male and half from the female parent. Even into adult life, therefore, the cells of the animal probably contain chromatin derived by direct descent from each of its parents. THE SIGNIFICANCE OF FERTILIZATION. Frona this process of fertilization a number of conclusions, highly important for our purpose can be drawn. In the first place, it is evident that the chromosomes form the part of the cell which contain the hereditary traits handed down from parent to child. This follows from the fact that the chromosomes are the only part of the cell which, in the fertilized egg, is derived from both parents. Now the offspring can certainly inherit from each parent, and hence the hereditary traits must be associated with some part of the cell which is derived from both. But the egg substance is derived from the mother alone ^ the centrosome, at least in some cases and perhaps in all, is derived only from the father, while the chromosomes are derived from hath parents. Hence it follows that the hereditary traits must be particularly associated with the centrosomes.132 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. With this understanding we can, at least, in part understand the purpose of fertilization. As we shall see later, it is very necessary in the building of the living machine for each indi- vidual to inherit characters from more than one individual. This is necessary to poduce the numerous variations which ^ntribute to the construction of the machine. For this pur- pose there has been developed the process of sexual union of reproductive cells, which intro- duces into the offspring chromatic material from two parents. But if the two reproductive cells shoidd unite at once the number of chromo- somes would be doubled in each generation, and hence be constantly increasing. io vent this the polar cells are ^ cast out w^ch reduces the amount of chromatic material, ine union of the two pronucleii is plainly to produce a nucleus which shall contain chromosomes, and hence hereditary traits from each parent and the subsequent splitting of these chromosomes and the separation of the two halves into daughter nuclei! insures that all the nucleii, and hence all cells of the adult, shall possess hereditary traits derived from both parents. Thus it conies that, even in the adult, every body cell is made up of chromosomes from each parent, and may hence inherit characters from each. , The cell of an animal thus consists of three somewhat distinct but active parts — the cell substance, the chromosomes, and the Of these the cell substance appears to be handea down from the mother; the centrosome comes at least in some cases, from the father, and tTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 133 chromosomes from both parents. It is not yet certain, however, whether the centrosome is a constant part of the cell. In some cells it cannot yet be found, and there are some reasons for be- lieving that it may be formed out of other parts of the cell. The nucleus is always a direct de- scendant from the nucleus of pre-existing cells, so that there is an absolute continuity of descent between the nucleii of the cells of an individual and those of its antecedents back for numberless generations. ^ It is not certain that there is any such continuity of descent in the case of the centrosomes; for, while in the process of fertiliza- tion the centrosome is handed down from parent to child, there are some reasons for believing that it may disappear in subsequent cells, and later be redeveloped out of other parts. The only part of the cell in which complete continuity from parent to child is demonstrated, is the nucleus and particularly the chromosomes. All of these facts simply emphasize the importance of the chromosomes, and tell us that these bodies must be regarded as containing the most import- ant features of the cell which constitute its individuality. WHAT IS PROTOPLASM? Enough has now been given of disclosures of the modern microscope to show that our old friend Protoplasm has assumed an entirely new guise, if indeed it has not disappeared altogether. These simplest life processes are so marvellous and involve the action of such an intricate mass of machinery that we can no longer retain our134 THE STORY OE LIFE’S MECHANISM. earlier notion of protoplasm as the physical basis of life. There can be no life without the pro- perties of assimilation, growth, and reproduction; and, so far as we know, these properties are found only in that combination of bodies which we call the cell, with its mixture of harmoniously acting parts. Life, at least the life of a (^ll, is then not the p'operty of a chemical compound proto- plasm, hut is the result of the activities of a machine. Indeed, we are now at a loss to know how we can retain the term protoplasm. As originally used it meant the contents of the cell, and the significance in the term was in the conception of protoplasm as a somewhat homogeneous chemical compound uniform in all types of life.^ But we now see that this cell contains not a single substance, but a large number, including solids, jelly masses, and liquids, each of which has its own chemical composition. The number of chemical com- pounds existing in the material formerly call^ed protoplasm no one knows, but we do know that they are many, and that the different substances are combined to form a physical structure. Which of these various bodies shall we continue to call protoplasm ? Shall it be the linin, or the liquids, or the microsomes, or the chromatin threads, or the centrosomes 1 Which of these is the actual physical basis of life 1 From the de- scription of cell life which we have given, it will be evident that no one of them is a material upon which our chemical biologists can longer found a chemical theory of life. That chemical theory ot life, as we have seen, was founded upon the con- ception that the primitive life substance is aTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 135 definite chemical compound. No such compound has been discovered, and these disclosures of the microscope of the last few years have been such as to lead us to abandon hope of ever discovering such a compound. It is apparently impossible to reduce life to any simpler basis than this com- bination of bodies which make up what was for- merly called protoplasm. The term protoplasm is still in use with different meanings as used by different writers. Sometimes it is used to refer to the entire contents of the cell; sometimes to the cell substance only outside the nucleus. Plainly, it is not the protoplasm of earlier years. With this conclusion one of our fundamental questions has been answered. We found in our first chapter that the general activities of animals and plants are easily reduced to the action of a machine, provided we had the fundamental vital powers residing in the parts of that machine. We then asked whether these fundamental properties were themselves those of a chemical compound or whether they were to be reduced to the action of still smaller machines. The first answer which biologists gave to this question was that assimila- tion, growth, and reproduction were the simple properties of a complex chemical compound. This answer was certainly incorrect. Life activities are exhibited by no chemical compound, but, so far as we know,^ only by the machine called the cell. Thus it is that we are again reduced to the problem of understanding the action of a machine. It may be well to pause here a moment to notice that this position very greatly increases136 THE STORY OE LIFE’S MECHANISM. the difficulties in the way of a solution of the life problem. If the physical basis of life had proved to be a chemical compound, the problem of its origin would have been a chemical one. Chemical forces exist in nature, and these forces are sufficient to explain the formation of any kind of chemical compound. The problem of the origin of the life substance would then have been simply to account for certain conditions which resulted in such chemical combination as would give rise to this physical basis of life. But now that the simplest substance manifesting the phenomena of life is found to be a machine, we can no longer find in chemical forces efficient causes for its formation. Chemical forces and chemi- cal affinity can explain chemical compounds of any degree of complexity, but they cannot explain the formation of machines. Machines are the result of forces of an entirely differ- ent nature. Man can manufacture machines by taking chemical compounds and putting them together into such relations that their interaction will give certain results. Bits of iron and steel, for instance, are put together to form a locomotive, but the action of the locomotive depends, not upon the chemical forces which made the steel, but upon the re- lation of the bits of steel to each other in the machine. So far as we have had any experience, machines have been built under the guidance of intelligence which adapts the parts to each other. When, therefore, we find that the simplest life substance is a machine, we are forced to ask what forces exist in nature which can in a similar wayTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 137 build machines by the adjustment of parts to each other. But this topic belongs to the second part of our subject, and must be for the present post- poned. REACTION AGAINST THE CELL DOCTRINE. As the knowledge of cells which we have out- lined was slowly acquired, the conception of the cell passed through various modifications. At first the cell wall was looked upon as the funda- mental part, but this idea soon gave place to the belief that it was the protoplasm that was alive. Under the influence of this thought, the cell doctrine developed into something like the fol- lowing : The cell is simply a bit of protoplasm and is the unit of living matter. The bodies of all larger animals and plants are made up of great numbers of these units acting together, and the activities of the entire organism are simply the sum of the activities of its cells. The organism is thus simply the sum of the cells which compose it, and its activities the sum of the activities of the individual cells. As more facts were disclosed the idea changed slightly. The importance of the nucleus became more and more forcibly impressed upon micro- scopists, arid this body came after a little into such prominence as to hide from view the more familiar protoplasm. The marvellous activities of the nucleus soon caused it to be regarded as the important part of the cell, while all the rest was secondary. The cell was now thought of as a bit of nuclear matter surrounded by secondary parts. The marvellous activities of the nucleus.138 THE STORY OF LIFE S MECHANISM. and, above all, the fact that the nucleus alone is handed down from one generation to the next in reproduction, all attested to its great importance and to the secondary importance of the rest of the cell. . . ,, This was the most extreme position ot the ceil doctrine. The cell was the unit of living action, and the higher animal or plant simply a colony of such units. An animal was simply an associa- tion together for mutual advantage of indepen- dent units, just as a city is an association of independent individuals. The organization ot the animals was simply the result of the com- bination of many independent units. was no activity of the organism as a whole, but only of its independent parts. Cell life was superior to organized life. Just as, in a city, the city government is a name given to the combined action of the individuals, so are the actions of organisms simply the combined action of their individual cells. Against such an extreme position there has been in recent years a decided reaction, and to-day it is becoming more and more evident that such a position cannot be maintained. In the first place, it is becoming evident that the cell substance is not to be entirely obliterated by the importance of the nucleus. That the nucleus is a most important vital centre is clear enough, but it is equally clear that nucleus and cell substance must be together to constitute the life substance. The complicated structure of the cell substance, the decided activity shown by its fibres in the process of cell division, clearly enough indicateTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 139 that it is a part of the cell which can not be neglected in the study of the life substance. Again the discovery of the centrosome as a distinct morphological element has still further added to the complexity of the life substance, and proved that neither nucleus nor cell sub- stance can be regarded as the cell or as consti- tuting life. It is true that we may not yet know the source of this centrosome. We do not know whether it is handed down from generation to generation like the nucleus, or whether it can be made anew out of the cell substance in the life of an ordinary cell. But this is not material to its recognition as an organ of importance in the cell activity. Thus the cell proves itself not to be a bit of nuclear matter surrounded by secondary parts, but a community of several perhaps equally important interrelated members. Another series of observations weakened the cell doctrine in an entirely different direction. It had been assumed that the body of the multi- cellular animal or plant was made of independent units. Microscopists of a few years ago began to suggest that the cells are in reality not separated from each other, but are all connected by proto- plasmic fibres. ^ In quite a number of different kinds of tissue it has been determined that fine threads of protoplasmic material lead from one cell to another in such a way that the cells are in vital connection. The claim has been made that there is thus a protoplasmic connection be- tween all the cells of the body of the animal, and that thus the animal or plant, instead of14:0 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. consisting of a large number of separate mde- pendent cells, consists of one great mass of hying matter which is aggregated into little centres, each commonly holding a nucleus. Such a con- clusion is not yet demonstrated, nor is its sig- nificance very clear should it prove to be a fact; but it is plain that such suggestions quite decidedly modify the conception of the body as a community of independent cells. There is yet another line of thought which is weakening this early conception of the cell doctrine. There is a growing conviction that the view of the organism, simply as the sum of the activities of the individual cells, is not a correct understanding of it. According to this extreme position, a living thing can have no organization until it appears as the result of cell multiplication. To take a concrete case, the e„g of a starfish can not possess any organization corresponding to the starfish. The egg is a single cell, and the starfish a community of cells. The egg can, therefore, no more contain th oriranizltion of a starfish than a hunter m the backwoods can contain within himself the organ - zation of a great metropolis. The of individuals like the hunter may unite to foim a city, and the descendants of the egg 1^^’ by combining, give rise to *« .starfish But neither can the man contain within himself the organization of the city, * starfish. It is, perhaps true treme position of the cell doctrine has not been held by any one, but . thoughts very closely approximating to this view have been held byTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 141 the leading advocates of the cell doctrine, and have beyond question been the inspiration of the development of that doctrine. But certainly no such conception of the signi- ficance of cell structure would longer be held. In spite of the fact that the egg is a single cell, it is impossible to avoid the belief that in some way it contains the starfish. W^e need not, of course, think of it as containing the structure of a star- fish, but we are forced to conclude that in some way its structure is such that it contains the starfish potentially.^ The relation of its parts and the forces therein are such that, when placed under proper conditions, it develops into a star- fish. Another egg placed under identical condi- tions will develop into a sea urchin, and another into an oyster. If these three eggs have the power of developing into three different animals under identical conditions, it is evident that they, must have corresponding differences in spite of the fact that each is a single cell. Each must in some way contain its corresponding adult. In other words, the organization must be within the cells, ^ and hence not simply produced by the associations of cells. Over this subject there has been a deal of puzzling and not a little experimentation. The presence of some sort of organization in the egg is clear but what is meant by the statement is not quite so clear. Is this adult organization in the whole egg or only in its nucleus, and especi- ally in the chromosomes which, as we have seen, contain the hereditary traits t When the egg begins to divide does each of the first two cells142 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. Still contain potentially the organization of the whole adult, or only one half of it ? Is the development of the egg simply the unfolding ot some structure already present; or is the struc- ture constantly developing into more and more complicated conditions owing to the bringing ot its parts into new relations 1 To answer these questions experimenters have been engaged in dividing developing eggs into pieces to determine what powers are still possessed by the fragmen^ts. The results of such experiments are as yet rather conflicting, but it is evident enough from them that we can no longer look upon the egg cell as a simple unditferentiated cell. In some way it already contains the characters of the adult, and when we remember that the characters ot the adult which are to be developed from the egg are already determined, even to «iany minute details—such, for instance, as the inheritance ot a congenital mark—it becomes evident that the egg is a body of extraordinary complexity. And vet the egg is nothing more than a single cell agreeing with other cells in all its general charac- ters. It is clear, then, that we must look upon organization as something superior to cells and something existing within them, or at least with- in the egg cell, and controlling its development. We are forced to believe, further, that there may be as important differences between two cells as there are between two adult animals or plant^s. In some way there must be concealed within the two cells which constitute the egg of the starfish and the man differences which correspond to the differences between the starfish and the man.THE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 143 Organization, in other words, is superior to cell structure, and the cell itself is an organization of smaller units. As the result^ of these various considerations there has been in recent years, something of a reaction against the cell doctrine as formerly held. While the study of cells is still regarded as the key to the interpretation of life pheno- mena, biologists are seeing more and more clearly that they must look deeper than simple cell structure for their explanation of the life pro- cesses. W^hile the study of cells has thrown an immense amount of light upon life, we seem hardly nearer the centre of the problem than we were before the beginning of the series of dis- coveries inaugurated by the formulation of the doctrine of protoplasm. FUNDAMENTAL VITAL ACTIVITIES AS LOCATED IN CELLS. We are now in position to ask whether our knowledge of cells has aided us in finding an ex- planation of the fundamental vital actions to which, as we have seen, life processes are to be reduced. The /our properties of irritability, con- tractibility, assimilation, and reproduction, belong to these vital units—the cells, and it is these pro- perties which we are trying to trace to their source as a foundation of vital activity. We may first ask whether we have any facts which indicate that any special parts of the cell are associated with any of these fundamental activities, The first fact that stands out clearly144 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. is that the nucleus is connected most intimately with the process of reproduction and especially with heredity. This has long been believed, but has now been clearly demonstrated by the ex- periments of cutting into fragments the ^ cell bodies of unicellular animals. As already noticed, those pieces which possess a nucleus are able to continue their life and reproduce themselves, while those without a nucleus are incapable of reproduction. With greater force still is the fact shown by the process of fertilization of the egg. The egg is very large and the male reproductive cell is very small, and the amount of material which the offspring derives froin its inother is very great compared with that which it derives from its father. But the child inherits equally from father and mother, and hence we must find the hereditary traits handed down in some element which the off- spring obtains equally from father and mother. As we have seen (Figs. 34-44), the only element which answers this demand is the nucleus, and more particularly the chromosomes of the nucleus. Clearly enough, then, we must look upon the nu- cleus as the special agent in reproduction of cells. Again, we have apparently conclusive evidence that the nucleus controls that part of the assimila- tive process which we have spoken of as the con- structive processes. The metabolic processes of life are both constructive and destructive. By the former, the material taken into the cell in the form of food is built up into cell tissue, such as linin, microsomes, etc., and, by the latter, these pioducts are to a greater or less extent broken to^ pieces again to liberate their energy, and thus give riseTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 145 to the activities of the cell. If the destructive processes were to go on alone the organism might continue to manifest its life activities for a time until it had exhausted the products stored up in Its body for such purposes, but it would die from the lack of more material for destruction. Life IS not complete without both processes. Now, in the life of the cell we may apparently attribute the destructive processes to the cell substance and the constructive processes to the nucleus. In a cell which has been cut into fragments those pieces without a nucleus continue to show the ordinary activities of life for a time, but they do not live very long (Fig 25). The fragment is unable to assimilate its food sufficiently to build up more m^erial. So long as it still retains within itself a sufficiency of already formed tissue for its destruc- tive metabolism, it can continue to move around actively and behave like a complete cell, but eventually it dies from starvation. On the other hand, those fragments which retain a piece of the nucleus, even though they have only a small portion of the cell substance, feed, assimilate, and grow ; in other words, they carry on not only the destructive but also the constructive changes. Plainly, this means that the nucleus controls the constructive processes, although it does not n^ecessarily mean that the cell substance constructive processes. Without the nucleus the cell is able to perform those processes, while it is able to carry on the de- structive processes readily enough. The nucleus controls, though it may not entirely carry on the constructive metabolism. ^ ^ > e146 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. It is equally clear that the cell substance is the seat of most of the destructive processes which constitute vital action. The cell substance is irritable, and is endowed with the power of con- tractility. Cell fragments without nucleii are sensitive enough, and can move around as readily as normal cells. Moreover, the various fibres which surround the centrosomes in cell division and whose contractions and expansions, as we have seen, pull the chromosomes apart i" cell division, are parts of the cell substance. All o these are the results of destructive metaholism, and we must, therefore, conclude that destructive processes are seated in the cell substance. The centrosome is too problematical as yet tor much comment. It appears to he a piece of the machinery for bringing about cell division, but beyond this it is not safe to make any state- ™*ln brief, then, the cell body is a machine for carrving on destructive chemical changes, and liberating from the compounds thus broken to pieces their inclosed energy, which is at once converted into motion or heat or some other form of active energy. This chemical destruc- tion is, however, possible only after the compounds have become a part of the cell, therefore, possesses a nucleus . power of enabling it to assimilate its food-that 13, to convert it into its own substance, i nucleus further contains a marvellous material chromatin—which in some way exercises a con- Sg influence in its life and is handed down Lm one generation to another by continuousTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. U7 descent. ^ Lastly, the cell has the centrosome, which brings about cell division in such a manner that this chromatin material is divided equally among the subsequent descendants, and thus insures that the daughter cells shall all be equivalent to each other and to the mother cell. VVe must therefore look upon the organic cell ^ admirably adapted parts. Within this engine chemical activity is excited. Ihe fuel supplied to the engine is combined by chemical forces with the oxygen of the air. The vigour of the oxidation is partly dependent upon temperature, just as it is in any other oxidation process, and is of course dependent upon the presence of fuel to be oxidised, and air to furnish the oxypn. Unless the fuel is supplied and the air has free access to it, the machine stops, the cell dies. The energy liberated in this machine ‘ w converted into motion or some other form. We do not indeed understand the construction of the machine well enough to explain the exact mechanism by which this conversion takes place but that there is such a mechanism can not be doubted, and the structure of the cell is certainly complex enough to give plenty of room for it. he irritability of the cell is easily understood • for, since it is made of very unstable chemical compounds, any slight disturbance or stimulation on one part will tend to upset its chemical sta- bility and produce reaction; and this is what is meant by irritability. Or, again we may look upon the cell as a little chemical laboratory, where chemical changes are constantly occurring. These changes we do not148 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. indeed understand, but they are undoubtedly chemical changes. The result is that some com- pounds are pulled to pieces and part of the fragments liberated or excreted, while other parts are retained and built into other more complex compounds. The compounds thus manu- factured are retained in the cell body, and i grows in bulk. This continues until the cell becomes too big, and then it divides. If a machine is broken it ceases to carry on its proper duties, and if the parts are bad y broken it is ruined. So with the cell. If is broken by any means, mechanical, thermal, or otherwise, it ceases to run—we say it dies. It has within itself great power of repairing injury, and therefore it does not cease to ac until the injury is so great as to be beyond repair. Thus it only stops its motion when the machinery has become so badly injured as to be beyond hope of repair, and hence the cell, after once ceasing its action, can never resume i There are, of course, other functions of living things besides the few simple ones which we have considered. But these are the funda- mental ones ; and if we can reduce them to an intelligible explanation, we may feel that we have really grasped the essence of lite. It we understand how the cell can move and grow and reproduce itself, we may rest assured that the other phenomena of life follow as a natural rcrs;. A “2. phenomena, we have accomplished oui objectTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 149 of comprehending the life phenomena in our chemical and mechanical laws. But have we thus reduced these fundamental phenomena to an intelligible explanation ? It must be acknowledged that we have not We have reduced them to the action of chemical forces acting m a machine. But the machine 1 self IS unintelligible. The organic cell is no inte hgible to us than is the body as a whole The chemical understanding which we hought we had a few years ago in protoplasm has failed us, and nothing has taken its place We have no conception of what may be the substance. All we can say is that this most marvellous of all natural pheno- mena occurs only within that peculiar piece of machinery which we call the cell, and that it is the result of the action of physical forces in that machine. How the machine acts, or even the structure of the machine, we are as far from undeptanding as we were fifty years ago. The solution has retreated before us even faster than we have advanced toward it. SUMMARY. We may now notice in a brief summary the position which we have reached. In our atteinpt to explain the living organism on the principle of the machine, we are very successful far as secondary problems are concerned Digestion, circulation, respiration, and motion are readily solved upon chemical and mechanical principles. Even the phenomena of the nervous150 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. system are, in a measure, capable of compre- hension within a mechanical formula, leaving out of account the purely mental phenomena, which certainly have not been touched by the investi- gation. All of these phenomena are reducible to a few simple fundamental activities, and these fundamental activities we find manifested by simple bits of living matter unincumbered by the complicated machinery of organisms. With the few fundamental properties of these bits ot organic matter we can construct the complicated life of the higher organism. When we come, however, to study these simple bits of matter, they prove to be anything but simple of matter. They, too, are pieces of complicated mechanism whose action we do not even hope to understand. That their action is dependent upon their machinery is evident enough froin the simple description of cell activity which we have noticed. That these fundamental vital properties are to be explained as the result of chemical and mechanical forces acting through this machinery, cannot be doubted. But how this occurs or what constitutes the guiding force which corresponds to the engineer of the machine, we do not know. Thus our mechanical explanation of the living machine lacks a foundation. We can understand tolerably well tlie building of the superstruc- ture, but tbe foundation stones u^pon which that structure is built are unintelligible to us. ihe running of the living machine is thus only in part understood. The living organism is a machine, or, it is better to say, it is a series of machines one within the other. As a whole it isTHE CELL AND PROTOPLASM. 151 a machine, and its parts are separate machines. Each part is further made up of still smaller machines until we reach the realm of the micro- scope. Here still we find the same story. Even the parts formerly called units prove to be machines, and when we recognize the complexity of these cells and their marvellous activities, we are ready to believe that we may find still further machines within. And thus vital activity is reduced to a complex of machines, all acting in harmony with each other to produce together the one result—life.152 PAET II. THE BUILDING OF THE LIVING MACHINE. CHAPTER III. THE FACTORS CONCERNED IN THE BUILDING OF THE LIVING MACHINE. Having now outlined the results of our study into the mechanism of the living machine, we turn our attention next to the more difficult problem of the method by which this machine was built. From the facts which we have been considering in the last two chapters it is evident that the problem we have before us is a mechan- ical rather than a chemical one. Of course, chemical forces lie at the bottom of vital activity, and we must look upon the force of chemical affinity as the fundamental power to which the problems must be referred. But a chemical explanation will evidently not suffice for our purpose; for we have absolutely no reason for believing that the phenomena of life can occur as the results of the chemical properties of any compound, however complex. The simplest known form of matter which manifests life is a machine, and the problem of the origin of life must be of the origin of that machine. Are thereTHE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 153 any forces in nature which are of such a sort as of explain the building 0 inaehines ? Plants and animals are the only machines which nature has produced. They are tee only instances in nature of a structure built ^her tn r adjusted to each other to the performance of certain ends. All acquainted were made by man, and in making them intelli- gence came in to adapt the parts fo each other. Put in the hying organism is a similarly adapted Here again we must attack the problem from what seems to be the wrong end. Apparently it would be simpler to discover the method of the mnufacture of the simplest machine rather than the more complex ones. But this has proved IS that the simplest hying machine is the cell whose study must always involve the use of the microscope, and for this reason is more difficult the problem is really a more difficult one than to explain the building of the more complex machines out of the simpL ones At all events, the last fifty years have tnirl ! ' much of the method of the building of the com P ex machines out of the simpler ones, whil^Z not even a hint as to the solution of the building of the simplest machine from the inanimate world. Our attention must There- fore, be first directed to the method by which154 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. nature has constructed the complex machines which we find filling the world to-day in the form of animals and plants. HISTORY OF THE LIVING MACHINE. In the first place, we must notice that these machines have not been fashioned suddenly or rapidly, but have been the result of a very slow growth. They have had a history extending very far back into the past for a period of years which we can only indefinitely estimate, but certainly reaching into the millions. As we look over this past history in the light of our present knowledge we see that whatever have been the forces which have been concerned in the construc- tion of these machines they have acted very slowly It has taken centuries, and, indeed, thousands of years, to take the successive steps which have been necessary in this construction. Secondly, we notice that the machines have been built up step by step, one feature being added to another with the slowly progressing ages. Thirdly, we notice that in one respect this con- struction of the living machine by nature’s pro- cesses has been different from our ordinary method of building machines. Our method ot building puts the parts gradually into place in such a way that until the machine is finished it is incapable of performing its functions. The halt- built engine is as useless and as powerless as so much crude iron. Its power ot action only appears after the last part is fitted into place and the machine finished. But nature’s process inTHE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 155 machine building is different. Every step in the process, so far as we can trace it at least, has produced a complete machine. So far back as we can follow this history we find that at every point the machine was so complete as to be always endowed with motion and life activity. Nature s method has been to take simpler types of machines and slowly change them into more complicated ones without at any moment impair- ing their vigour. It is something as if the steam engine of Watt should be slowly changed by add- ing piece after piece until there was finally pro- duced the modern quadruple expansion engine, but all this change being made upon the original engine without once stopping its motion. This gradual construction of the living ma- chines has been called Organic Evolution, or the Theory of Descent, It will be necessary for us, in order to comprehend the problem which we have before us, to briefly outline the course of this evolution. Our starting point in this history must be the cell, for such is the earliest and simplest form of living thing of which we have any trace. This cell is,, of course, already a machine, and we must presently return to the problem of its origin. At present we will assume this cell as a starting point endowed with its fundamental vital powers. It was sensitive, it could feel, grow, and reproduce itself. From such a simple machine, thus endowed, the his- tory has been something as follows: In repro- ducing itself this machine, as we have already seen, simply divided itself into two halves, each like the other. At first all the parts thus arising156 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. separated from each other and remained inde- pendent. But so long as this habit continued there could be little advance. After a time some of the cells failed to separate after divi- sion, but remained clinging together (Fig. 45). The cells of such a mass must have been at first all alike; but, after a little, differences began to appear among them. Those on the outside of the mass were dif- ferently affected by their sur- roundings from those in the in- terior, and soon the cells began to share among themselves the dif- ferent duties of life. The cells on the outside were better situ- ated for protection and capturing those on the inside could not food for themselves, and took upon themselves the duty of digesting the food which was handed to them by the outer cells. Each of these sets of cells could now carry on its own special duties to better advantage, since it was freed from other duties, and thus the whole mass of cells was better served than when each cell tried to do everything for itself. This was the first step in the building of the machine out of the active cells (Fig. 46). From such a starting point the subsequent his- tory has been ever based upon the same prin- ciple. There has been a constant separation of the different functions of life among groups of cells, and as the history went on this division of labour among the different parts became greater Fig. 45. A group of cells resulting from division, repre- senting the first step in machine making. food, while•■ec '€TV THE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 157 and greater. Group after group of ^ells WQve set apart for one special duty after another, and the result was a larger and ever more compli- cated mass of cells, Avith a greater and greater differentiation among them. In this building of the machine there was no time Avhen the machine was not active. At all points the machine was alive and func- tional, but each step made the total function of the machine a little more accurately per- formed, and hence raised someAvhat the totality of life l^owers. This parcelling out of the different duties of life to groups of cells continued age after age, each step being a little advance over the last, until the result has been the living machine as we knoAv it in its highest form, Avith its numerous organs all interrelated in such a way as to form a harmoniously acting whole. But a second principle in this growth of the machine was needed to produce the variety which IS found in nature. As the different cells in the multicellular mass became associated into groups for different duties, the method of such division ot labour Avas not alike in all machines. A city in China and one in England are alike made up of individuals, and the fundamental needs of the CMnaman and the Englishman are alike. But differences m industrial and political conditions Fig. 46. A later step in machine building in which the outer cells have ac- quired different form and function from the inner cells: ec, the outer cells,whose duties are protective ; en, the inner cells engaged in digesting food.158 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. have produced different combinations and associa- tions, so that Pekin is wonderfully unlike London. So in these early developing niachines, quite a variety of method of organization was adopted by the different groups. Now as soon as any special type of organization was adopted by any animal or plant, the principle of heredity trans- mitted the same kind of organization to its de- scendants, and there thus arose lines of descent differing from each other, each line having its own method of organization. As we follow the history of each line the same thing is repeated. We find that the representatives of each line again separate into groups, each of which has acquired some new type of organization, an there has thus been a constant divergence ot these lines of descent in an indefinite number of directions. The members of the different lines of descent all show a fundamental likeness with each other since they retain the fundamental characters of their common ancestor but they show also the differences which they have them- selves acquired. And thus the process is le- peated over and over again. This history of the growth of these different machines has thus been one of divergence from common centres, and is to be diagrammatically expressed alter the fashion of a branching tree. The end of each branch represents the highest state of perfection to which each line has been carried. One other point in this history must be noted. As the development of the complication ot the machine progressed the possibility of further progress has been constantly narrowed. WhenTHE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 159 the history of these machines began as a simple mass of cells, there was a possibility of an almost endless variety of methods of organization. But as a distinct type of organization was adopted by one and another line of descendants all subse- quent productions were limited through the law A general line of organization adopted by their ancestors. With each age the further growth of such machines must consist in the further development in the perfection of its parts, and not in the adoption of any new system of organization. _ Hence it is that the history of the living machine has shown a tendency toward development along a few well-marked lines, and although this complication becomes greater, we still see the same fundamental scheme of organi- zation running through the whole. As the ages have progressed the machines have become more perfect in the adjustment of their parts, i.e. they have become more perfect machines, but the his- tory has been simply that of perfecting the early machines rather than the production of new types. EVIDENCE FOR THIS HISTORY. As just outlined, we see that the living machines have been gradually brought into t^heir present condition by a process which has been called organic evolution. But we must pause for a moment to ask what is our evidence that such has been the history of the livin- machine. The whole possibility of understand- nature depends upon our accepting this history and finding an explanation bf it160 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. At the outset we have the question of fact, and we must notice the grounds upon which we stand in assuming this history to be as outlined. This problem is the one which has occupied such a prominent place in the scientific world during the last forty years, and which has contri- buted so largely toward making modern biology such a different subject from the earlier studies of natural history. It is simply the evidence for organic evolution, or the theory of descent. The subject has for forty years been thor- oughly sifted and tested by every conceivable sort of test. As a result of the interest in the question there has been disclosed an immense mass of evidence, relevant and irrelevant. As the evidence has accumulated it has become more and more evident that the evolution theory must be recognized as the only one which is in accord with the facts, and the outcome has been a practical unanimity among thinkers that the theory of descent must be the foundation of our further study. The evidence which has forced this conclusion upon scientists we must stop for a moment to consider, since it bears very directly upon the subject we are studying. HISTORICAL. The first source of evidence is naturally a his- torical one. This long history of the constiuc- tion of the living machine has left its record in the rocks which form the earth s surface. ^During this long period the rocks of the earth s crust have been deposited, and in these rocks havethe living machine building factors. 161 been left samples of many of the steps in this his tory of machine building- TLa ^ i ' traced by the study of these sLrfes1ust"as“the history of any machine might bTtrLed ft ® history IS rather incomplete and at times diffi^It <•]»'•«; lb. «.ri, 0..., Kr. „.SS fXlf "bS ;r> ’? • ~ Ci: w. b... and pressures, that they have been twistS £.»“« :s “w - itself more complete elch year‘'“n'^ showing historic accuracy. From tCm T almost 2“ Xb tfS st“™ a^=7i%:r.•iSSS duce our modern animals. '‘ranged to pro-162 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. This fossil record has given us our best know ledge of the course by which the present living world has been brought into its existing condi- tion. But its accuracy is largely confined to the recent periods. Of the very early history fossils tell us little or nothing. All the early rocks, which we may believe were formed dping the period when the first steps in this machine bmld- ing were taken, have been so changed by heat and pressure that whatever specimens they may have originally contained have been crushed out pf shape. Furthermore, the earliest organisms had no hard skeletons, and it was not until hvmg beings had developed far enough to have hard parts that it was possible for them to leave traces of themselves in the rocks. Hence, so far as con- cerns this earliest history, we can get no record of it in the rocks. EMBRYOLOGIC AL. But here comes in another source of evidence which helps to fill up the gap. In its develop- ment every animal to-day begins as an egg. This is a simple cell, and the animal goes through a series of changes which eventually lead to the adult. Now these changes appear for the most part to be parallel to the changes through which the earlier forms of life passed in their development from the simple to the more compli- Ited forms. Where it is possible to follow the | history of the groups of animals from their fossil 1 rSs and cfmpa're it with the history of the individual animal as it progresses from the egg to the adult, there is found a very decrded parallelTHE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 163 ism. This parallelism between embryoloev and past history has been of great service in helping us toward the history of the past. At one time it was believed that it was the key which would unlock all doors, and for a decadi biologists eagerly pursued embryology with the expectation that it would solve all problems in connection with the history of animals. The result has been somewhat disappointing. Em- bryology has, It is true, been of the utmost service in showing relationships of forms to each '■«''ealmg past history. But wfo h h' ^ " record which has unfortunately been subject to such modifying conditions that in maiy cases its entirely obliterated corrl ‘ worthless as a historical re- cord. The imperfections in regard to the record were early seen after the attention of biologists was seriously turned to the study of embryology but It was expected that it would be possible to correct them and discover the true meaning underlying th^e more apparent one. Indeed in many cases this has been found possible. But render°it modifications are so profound as to cover the entangle them and dis- cover the true meaning. As a result the biolo- gist to-day IS showing less confidence in embryo- logy, and IS turning his attention in differe^nt lllle^desfoed!" Promising of results in the But although the teachings of embryolo-ry have failed to realise the great hopes that were placed upon them, their assistance in the formu-164 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. lation of this history of the machine has teen of extreme value. Many a bit of obscurity has been cleared up when the embryology of puzzling animals has been studied. Many a •'elationship has been made clear, and this is simply another wav of saying that a portion of this history of life has beL read. This aid of embryology has been particularly valuable in just *at part of the history where the evidence from the study of fossils, is wanting. The study of fossils, we have seen, gives little or no data concermrio the early history of living machines; and it is just here that embryology has proved to be o the most value. It is a source of evMence that has told us of most of the steps in the progress from the single-celled animal to the organisms, and gives ns the clearest idea of the fundamental principles which have been con- cerned in the evolution of life and the construction of the complicated machine out of the simple bi of protoplasm. In spite of its limits, therefore, embryology has contributed a large quota of the evidence which we have of the evolution of life. ANATOMICAL. A third source of this history is obtained from the facts of comparative anatomy. The essential feature of this subject is the fact that animals and plants show relationships. This fact is one of Lst patent and yet one of the most facts rf biology. It has been recognized *e very beginning of the study of animals and plants. One cannot be even the most superhcial observer without seeing that certain forms show greatTHE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 165 likeness to each other while others are much more unlike. The grouping of animals and plants into orders, genera, and species is dependent upon this relationship. If two forms are alike in everything except some slight detail, they are commonly placed in the same genus hut in differ- ent species, while if they show a greater unlike- ness they may be placed in separate genera. By thus grouping together forms according to their resemblance, the animal and vegetable kingdoms ^e classified into groups subordinate to groups. The principle of relationship, i.e., fundamental similarity of structure, runs through the whole animal and vegetable kingdom. Even the ani- inals most unlike each other show certain points of similarity which indicates a relationship, al- though of course a distant one. The fact of such a relationship is too patent to demand more words, but its significance needs to be pointed out. When we speak of relationship aniong men, we always mean his- torical connection. Two brothers are closely related because they have sprung from common parents, while two cousins are less closely re- lated because their common point of origin was farther back in time. More widely we speak of the relationship of the Indo-European races meaning thereby that back in the history of man these races had a common point of origin We never speak of any real relation of objects unless thereby we mean to imply historical con- nection. We are therefore justified in inter- preting the manifest relationships of organisms as pointing to history. Particularly are we166 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. iustified in this conclusion when we find that the relationships which we draw between the types of life now in existence run parallel to the history of these types as fossils, and at the same time disclosed by the study of embryology. • i This subject of comparative anatomy includes a consideration of what is called homology, and perhaps a concrete example may be instructive Lth in illustration and as suggesting the course which nature adopts in constructing her machines We speak of a monkey’s arm and a bird s wing as homologous, although they different in appearance and adapted to different duties. They are called homologous because they have similar parts in similar relations. This can be seen in Figs. 47 and 48, where it that each has the same bones, *J bird’s wing some of the bones have bep fused together !nd others lost. Jheir simi an y points to a relationship, but their dissimilari y tells us that the relationship is a distent one, and that their common point must have been quite far back in history. Now if we follow back the history of these two kinds of appendages, as shown to iis by fossils, we find them point. The arm can readily be traced to walking appendage, while the birds wing, by means of some interesting connecting p*®. ^n in a similar way be traced to an appendage with its five fingers all free and used for talking. Fig. 49 shows one of these connecting hnks re presenting the earliest type of bir , w lerTHE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 167 fingers and bones of the arm were still distinct, and yet the whole formed a true wing. Thus we see that the common point of origin which is suggested by the likenesses between an arm and a wing is no mere imaginary one, for the fossil record has Fig. 47. Fig. 48. Fig. 49. ^ monkey, a prehensile appendage. t iG. ^ flying appendage. In life covered with Fig. 49.—The arm of an ancient half-bird, half-reptile animal. In life covered with feathers and serving as a wing. shown us the path leading to that point of origin. The whole tells us further that nature’s method of producing a grasping or flying organ was here, not to build a new organ, but to take one that had hitherto been used for other pur- poses, and by slow changes modify its form and function until it was adapted to new duties.168 THE STORY OE LIFE’S MECHANISM. SIGNIFICANCE OF THESE SOURCES OF HISTORY. The real force of these sources of evidence comes to us only when we compare them with each other. They agree in a most remarkable fashion. The history as disclosed by fossils and that told by embryology agree with each other, and these are in close harmony with the history as it can be read from comparative anatomy. If archaeologists were to find in different countries and entirely unconnected with each other two or more different records of a lost nation, the belief in the actual existence of that nation would be irresistible. When researches at Nineveh, for example, unearth tablets which give the history of ancient nations, and when it proves that among the nations thus mentioned are some with the same names and having the same facts of history as those mentioned in the Bible, it is absolutelyimpossible to avoid the conclusion that such a nation with such a history did actually exist. Two independent sources of record could not be false in regard to such a matter as this. Now, our sources of evidence for this history of the living machine prove to be of exactly this kind. We have three independent sources of evidence which are so entirely different from each other that there is almost no likeness between them. One is written in the rocks, one in bone and muscle, while the third is recorded in the evanescent and changing pages of embry- ology and metamorphosis. Yet each tells the same story. Each tells of a history of this machine from simple forms to more complex.THE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS, 169 Each tells of its greater and greater differentia- fcion of labour and structure as the periods of time passed. Each tells of a growing complexity and an increasing perfection of the organisms as successive periods pass. Each tells us of common points of origin and divergence from these points, ^ach tells us how the more complicated forms have arisen as the results of changes in and modifications of the simpler forms. Each shows us how the individual parts of the organisms have been enlarged or diminished or changed in shape to adapt them to new duties. Each in s ort, tells the same story of the gradual con- struction of the living machine by slow steps and through long ages of time. When these three sources of history so accurately agree with each other, It IS as impossible to disbelieve in the existence of such history as it is to disbelieve in the existence of the ancient Hittite nation, after Its history has been told to us by two different sources of record. Now all this is very germane to our subject. We are trying to learn how this living machine, with Its wonderful capabilities, was built. The history which we have outlined is undoubtedly the history of the building of this machine, and the knowledge that these complicated machines have been produced as the result of slow growth is of the utmost importance to us. This know- ledge gives us at the very start some idea of the nature of the forces which have been at work. It tells us that in searching for these forces we must look for those which have been acting constantly. We must look for forces which pro^170 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. duce their effects not by sudden additions to the complication of the machine. They must be constant forces whose effect at any one time is comparatively slight, but whose total effect is to increase the complexity of the machine. must be forces which produce new types through the modification of the old ones. We must look for forces which do not adapt the machine for its future, but only for its present need. Each step in the history has been a complete animal with its own fully developed powers. We are not to expect to find forces which planned the perfect machine from the start, nor forces which were engaged in constructing parts for future use. Each step in the building of the machine was taken for the good of the machine at the parti- cular moment, and the forces which we are to look for must therefore be only such as can adapt the organisms for its present needs. ^ In other words, nothing has been produced in this machine for the purpose of being developed later something of value, but all parts that have been produced are of value at the time of their appear- ance. We must, in short, look for forces con- stantly in action and always tending in the same direction of greater complexity of structure. Is it possible to discover these forces and comprehend their action ? Before the modein development of evolution this question would unhesitatingly have been answered in the nega- tive. To-day, under the influence of the descent theory, stimulated, in the first place, by Darwin, the question will be answered by many with equal promptness in the affirmative. At allTHE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 171 events, we have learned in the last forty years to recognize some of the factors which have been at work in the construction of this machine. We must turn, therefore, to the consideration of these factors. FORCES AT WORK IN THE BUILDING OF THE LIVING MACHINE. There are three primary factors which lie at the bottom of the whole process. They are— 1. MeproducUon, which preserves type from generation to generation. 2. Vai'iation, which modifies type from genera- tion to generation. 3. Heredity, which transmits characters from generation to generation. Each must be considered by itself. REPRODUCTION. Eeproduction is the primary factor in this process of machine building, heredity and varia- tion being simply phases of reproduction. The living machine has developed by natural pro- cesses, all other machines by artificial methods. Reproduction is the one essential point of differ- ence between the living machine and the others which has made their construction by natural processes a possibility. What, then, is repro- duction?^ Reproduction is in all cases at the bottom simple division. Whether we consider the plant that multiplies by buds or the uni- cellular animal that simply divides into two equal parts, or the larger animal that multi-172 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. plies by eggs, we find that in all cases the fundamental feature of the process is division. In all cases the organism divides into two or more parts, each of which becomes in time like the original. Moreover, when we trace this division further we find that in all cases it is to be referred back to the division of the cell, such as we have described in a previous chapter. The egg is a single cell which has come from the parent by the division of one of the cells in the body of the parent. A bud is simply a mass of cells which have all arisen from the parent cells by division. The foundation of reproduction is thus in all cases cell division. Now, this process of division is dependent upon the properties^ of the cell. Firstly, it is a result of the assimila- tive powers of the cell, for only through assimi- lation can the cell increase in size, and only as it increases in size can it gain sustenance for cell division. Secondly, it is dependent, as we have seen, upon the' mechanism of the cell body, and especially the nucleus and centrosome. These structures regulate the cell division, and heime the reproduction of all animals and plants. We can not, therefore, find any explanation of repro- duction until we have explained the mechanism of the cell. The fundamental feature of nature’s . machine building is thus based upon the machinery of the nucleus and centrosome of the organic cell. Aside from the simple fact that it preserves; the race, the most important feature connected I with this reproduction is its wonderful fruitful-- ness. Since it results from division, it always = tends to increase the offspring in geometrical 1THE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 173 ratio. In the simplest case, that of the uni- cellular animals, the cell divides, giving rise to two animals, each of which divides again, pro- ducing four, and these again, giving eight, &c. The rapidity of this multiplication is sometimes inconceivable. It depends, of course, upon the interval of time between the successive divisions, but among the lower organisms this interval is sometimes not more than half an hour, the result of which is that a single individual could give rise in the course of twenty-four hours to sixteen million offspring. This is doubtless an extreme case, but among all the lower animals the rate is very great. Among larger animals the process IS more complicated; but here, too, there is the same tendency to geometrical progression, al- though the intervals between the successive reproductions may be quite long and irregular. But it is always so great that if allowed to progress unhindered at its normal rate the off- spring would, in a few years, become so numer- ous as to crowd other life out of existence. Even the slow-breeding elephant would, if allowed to breed unhindered for seven hundred and fifty years, produce nineteen million offspring—a rate oi increase plainly incompatible with the con- tinued existence of other animals. Here, then, we have the foundation of nature’s naethod of building animals and plants of the higher classes. In the machinery of the cell she has a power of reproduction which produces an increase in geometrical ratio far beyond the possibility for the surface of the earth to main- tain.174 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. HEREDITY. The offspring which arise by these processes of division are like each other, and hk® the parent from which they sprung. This is th^e essence of what is called heredity. Its signi - cance in the process of machine building is evL dent at once. It is the conserving force which preserves the forms already produced and makes it possible for each generation to build upon the structures of the earlier ones. Without it each generation would have to begin anew at the beginning, and nothing could be accomplished. But since this principle brings each individual to the same place where its parents stand, and thus always builds the offspring into a machine like the parent, it makes it possible for the successive generations to advance. Heredity is thus like the power of memory, or better still, like the inven- tion of printing in the development of civilization. It is a record of past achievements. By means of printing each age is enabled to benefit by the discoveries of the previous age, and without it the > development of civilization would be impossible.. In the same way heredity enables each generation i to benefit by the achievements of its ancestors; in the process of machine building, and thus to) devote its own energies to advancement. The fact of heredity is patent enough. It has? been always clearly recognized that the child has? the characters of its parents, and this belief is so; well attested as to need no proof. It is still, a question as to just what characters may be. inherited, and what influences may affect the^THE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 175 inheritance. There are plenty of puzzling pro- blems connected with heredity, but the fact of heredity is one of the foundation stones of bio- logical science. Upon it must be built all theories which look toward the explanation of the origin of the living machine. This factor of heredity again we must trace back to the machinery of the cell. TV^e have seen in the previous pages evidence for the wonderful nature of the chromosomes of the cells. We can not pretend to understand them, but they must be extraordinarily complex. We have seen proof that these chromosomes are probably the physi- cal basis of heredity, since they are the only parts of each parent which are handed down to subsequent generations. With these various facts of cell division and cell fertilization in mind, we can reach a very simple explanation of funda- mental features of heredity. The following is an outline of the most widely accepted view of the hereditary process. Recognizing that the chromosomes are the physical basis of hereditary transmission, we can picture to ourselves the transmission of hereditary characters something as follows : As we have seen, the fertilized egg contains an equal number of chromosomes from each parent (Fig. 42). Now when this fertilized cell divides, each of the rods splits lengthwise, half of each entering each of the two cells arising from the cell division. From this method of division of the chromosomes it follows that the daughter cells would be equiva- lent to each other and equivalent also to the un- divided egg. If the original chromosomes con-176 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. tained potentially all the hereditary traits handed down from parent to child, the chromosomes of each daughter cell will contain similar hereditary traits. If, therefore, the original fertilized egg possessed the power of developing into an adult like the parent, each of the daughter cells should likewise possess the power of developing into a similar adult. And thus each cell which arises as the result of such division should possess similar characters so long as this method of division con- tinues. But after a little in the development of the egg a differentiation among the daughter cells arises. They begin to acquire different shapes and different functions. This we can only believe to be the result of a differentiation in their chromatin material. In the cell division the chromosomes no longer split into equivalent halves, but some characters are portioned off to some cells and others to other cells. Those cells which are to carry on digestive functions when they are formed receive chromatin material which especially controls them in the performance of this digestive function, while those which are to produce sensory organs receive a different por- tion of the chromatin material. Thus the adult individual is built up as the cells receive different portions of this hereditary substance contained in the original chromosomes. The original chromo- somes contained all hereditary characters, but as development proceeds these are gradually por- tioned out among the daughter cells until the adult is formed. From this method of division it will be seen that each cell of the adult does not contain allTHE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 177 3 whlh contains a fhJ ' .It IS thought, however, that a part of . toe original chromatin material does not thus become differentiated, but remains entirely un- changed as the individual is developing \^s atSl^ in amfunt by ssimilation, but it remains unchanged durine the entire powth of the individual irthuf follows that the adult will contain, along with of material, a certain amount of the original physical basis of heredity wS still retains its original powers. This undiffer ^owfrf ofrd*" course it ^ individual, and of course it still possesses these powers since if F^rthr irwill urtner, it will follow that if this dormant activ^Tf'f*''^ chromatin should start into activity and produce a new individual the new individual thus produced would be identi Sv“did * the one which actu- . Y -1 develop from the egg, since both ndividuals would have come from a bTt of the Te^t Thif “■ be like tt ttn*« ^ matter how much amLnt material should increase in assimilation, so long as it remained un- altered^ m character, and it hence follows that carries around a certain amount undifferentiated chromatin material in oil reCd:'^"“ hi178 THE STORY OF LIFERS MECHANISM. Now whether this undifferentiated gm plasm, as we will now call it, is distributed al over the body or is collected at certain points is im- Srial to our purpose. It is certain that por- tions of it find their way into reproductive . oraans of the animal or plant. Thus we that nart of the chromatin material in the egg 0^ the first generation develops into the second generation, while another part of remains®dormant in that second go^« eventually becoming the chromatin of its e,,sS and spermatozoa. Thus each egg of the second a?S,' rwil““a?p: exactly like the second generation, since it con Sns chromosomes which are absolutely identicall wHh those from which the second generationi sprung There is thus no difficulty in “ndej- stonding why the second generation will be like, the firs®- and since the process is simply repeated.) again in tL next reproduction, the third generan tion will be like the second, and so on, generationi "generation. A study of the accompanyins; riiciarflm will iiiaks this clear. In other words, we have here a simple ^^der standing of at least some of the features of her t dity. This explanation is that ^^me of the ch^. matin material or germ plasm is handed dow from one generation to another, and is stom tempor^W i" ‘^e nucleii of the reproductiviTHE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 179 A represents an egg of a starfish. From one half, the unshaded portion, develops the starfish of the next generation, B. The other is distributed without change in the ovaries, ov, of the in- dividual, B. From these ovaries arises the next egg, A', with its germ plasm. This germ plasm is evident- ly identical with that in A, since it is merely a bit of the same handed down through the indi- vidual, B. In the de- velopment of the next generation the process is repeated, and hence B' will be like B, and the third generation of eggs Identical with the first and second. The undifferentiated part of the germ plasm is thus simply handed on from one generation to the next. Fig. 60.-Dlagram Illustrating the principle of heredity. cells. During the life of the individual this germ plasm xs capable of increasing in amount without180 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. changing its nature, and it thus continues to and is handed down from generation to generation, always endowed with developing into a new individual under proper conditfons, and of course when it does S" rise to new individuals, they will all be al k . We can thus easily understand why a child is like ite parU. It is not because the child can inherit directly from its parent, but child and parent have come from the unfo g of two bits of the same germ plasm. This tact of the transmission of the hereditary substance from generation to generation is known as tne theory of the continuity of germ plasm. Such appears to be, at least in part, the ma- chinery of heredity. This understanding makes the genn substance perpetual and continuous, and explains why successive generations are alike X! not explain, indeed, why an mdmdi a inherits from its parents, but w y i is . narents While biologists are still m dispute r^many problems connected with heredity all are a<vreed to-day that this principle of the continuity of the heredity substance must be the basis of all attempts to understand the machiuwy ofCedity. Bu^ plainly this whole process is a function of the cell machinery. While, tbere fore the idea of the continuity of germ greatly simplifies our problem, we must acknow- fedge that once more we are thrown back upo th/mysferies of the cell. Until we can more fullvXCn Ae ““Wne we must recognme our inability to solve the fundamental question of why an individual is like its parents.THE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 181 But plainly reproduction and heredity, as we have thus far cousidered them, will be unable to account for the slow modification of the machine • for in accordance with the facts thus far outlined’ each pneration would be precisely Wee the last, and there would be no chance for development nd .change from generation to generation. If the individual is simply the unfolding of the powers possessed by a bit of germ plasm, and if this geim plasm is simply handed on from pneration to generation, the successive genera- tions must of necessity be identical. But the living machine has been built by changes in the successive generation, and hence plainly some other factor is needed. This factor is mriatim. VARIATION. u‘tat produces moiifi- catwn of type. Heredity, as just explained, would make all generations alike. But nothing is more certain than that they are not alike. The fact 0 yariation is patent on every side, for no two fTiralike. _ Successive generations 1 er rom each other in one respect or another h. h' rof theiT bills or toes butterflies, in their colours; dogs, in their size and shape and markings; and so on through an endless category. Plants and animals alike throughout nature show variations in the greatest profusion. It is these variations which must urnish us with the foundation of the changes malne " "P182 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. Of the fact of these variations there is no question, and the matter need not detain Every one has had too many experiences to ask for proof. Of the nature of the variations, how- eve^! there are some points to be which are very erermane to our subject, in t first place, we must notice that these variations are of two kinds. There is one class which is born with the individual, so that they are nresent from the time of birth. In saying that SSrvarStions are born with the individual we do not necessarily mean that they are externally apparent at birth. A child may parents characters which do not appear till adu t hfe. For example, a child may inherit the colour oflts father’s hL, but this coloim is not apparent at birth. It appears only m later life but it is none the less an inborn character. ^ In the same way, we may have many inborn variations among indl;iduals which do not make themselves seen until adult life, but which are none the less “nate The offspring of the same parents may show decided differences, although they are put under similar conditions, and such differences are of course inherent in the nature of the indmdnal. Such variations are called congemtal vanatims. There is however, a second class of variations i which are not born in the arise as the result of some conditions affectin^ its. nfter-life The most extreme instances ot tins- kind are’ mutilations. Some men have on\y °n®‘ leg because the other has been lost by ac®ident.. Here is a variation acquired as the resi circumstances. A blacksmith differs from otherTHE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 183 members of his race in having exceptionally large arm muscles; but here, again, the large muscles have been produced by use. A European who has lived under a tropical sun has a darkened skin, but this skin has evidently been darkened by the action of the sun, and is quite a different thing from the dark skin of the dark races of men. In such instances we have variations pro- duced in individuals as the result of outside influ- ences acting upon them. They are not inborn, but are secondarily acquired by each individual. We call them acquired variations. It is not always possible to distinguish be- tween these two types of variation. Frequently a character will be found in regard to which it is impossible to determine whether it is congenital or acquired. If a child is born under the tropical sun, how can we tell whether its dark skin was the result of direct action of the sun on its own skin, or was an inheritance from its dark-skinned parents We niight suppose that this could be answered by taking a similar child, bringing it up away from the tropical sun, and seeing whether his skin remained dark. This would not suffice, however; for if such a child did then develop a white skin, we could not tell but that this lighter- coloured skin had been produced by the direct bleaching effect of the northern climate upon a skin which otherwise would have been dark. In other words, a conclusive answer can not here be given. It is not our purpose, however, to attempt to distinguish between these two kinds of varia- tions, but simply to recognize that they occur. Our next problem must be to search for an ex-184 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. planation of these variations. With the acquired variations we have no particular trouble, for they are easily explained as due to the direct action of the environment upon animals. One of the fun- damental characters of the living protoplasm (using the word now in its widest sense) is its extreme instability. So unstable is it that any disturbing influence will affect it. If two similar unicellular organisms are placed under different conditions they become unlike, since their un- stable protoplasm is directly affected by the sur- rounding conditions. With higher animals the process is naturally a little more complicated; but here, too, they are easily understood as part of the function of the machine. One of the ad- justments of the machine is such that when any organ is used more than usual the whole machine reacts in such a way as to send more blood to this special organ. The result is a change in the nutrition of the organ and a corresponding varia- tion in the individual. Thus acquired variations are simply functions of the action of the machine. Congenital variations, however, can not receive such an explanation. Being born with the indi- vidual, they can not be produced by conditions affecting him, but rather by something affect- ing the germ plasm from which he sprung. The nature of the germ plasm controls the nature of the individual, and congenital variations must consequently be due to its variations. But it is not so easy to see how this germ plasm can un- dergo variation. The conditions which surround the individual would affect its body, but it is not easy to believe that they would affect the ger-THE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 185 minal substance. Indeed, it is not easy to see how any external conditions can have influence upon this germinal material if it is not an active part of the body, but is simply stored within it for future use in reproduction. How could any changes in the environment of the individual have any eflect upon this dormant material stored within it ? But if we are correct in regarding this germ material in the reproductive bodies as the basis of heredity and the guiding force in developrnent, then it follows that the only way in which congenital variations can occur is by some variations in the germ plasm. If^ a child developed from germ plasm identical with that from which its parents developed, it would inherit identical characters; and if there are any congenital variations from its parents, they must be due to some variations in the germ plasm. In other words, in order to explain con- genital variations we must account for variations in the germ plasm. Now, there are two methods by which we may suppose that these variations in the germ may arise. The first is by the direct influence upon the germ plasm of certain unknown external conditions. The life substance of organisms is always very unstable, and, as we have seen, acquired variations are caused by external in- fluences directly affecting it. Now, the heredi- tary material is also life substance, and it is plainly a possibility for us to imagine that this germ material is also subject to influences from the conditions surrounding it. That such varia- tions do occur appears to be hardly doubtful.186 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. although we do not know what sort of influences can produce them. If the germ plasm is wholly stored within the reproductive gland, it is cer- tainly in a position to be only slightly affected by surrounding conditions which affect the animal. We can readily understand that the use of an organ like the arm will affect it in such a way as to produce changes in its proto- plasm, but we can hardly imagine that such use of the arm would produce any change in the hereditary substance which is stored in the re- productive organs. External conditions may thus readily affect the body, but not so readily the germ material. Even if such material is dis- • tributed more or less over the body instead of being confined to the reproductive glands, asi some believe, the difficulty is hardly lessened.. This difficulty of understanding how the germi plasm can be affected by external conditions has 5 led one school of biologists to deny that it is 5 subject to any variation by external conditions,, and hence that all modification of the germ plasmi must come from some other source. Probably/ ho one, however, holds this position to-day, andl it is the general belief that the germ plasm may/ be to some slight extent modified by external 1 conditions. Of course, if such variations da occur in the germ plasm they will become con-i genital variations of the next generation, sincct the next generation is the unfolding of the gernn ^ The second method by which the variations of germ plasm may arise is apparently of more imi portance. It is based upon the fact that, withTHE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 187 all higher animals and plants at least, each indi- vidual has two parents instead of one. In our study of cells we have seen that the machinery of the cell is such that it requires in the ordinary process of reproduction the union of germinal material from two different individuals to pro- duce a cell which can develop into a new indi- vidual. As we have seen, the egg gets rid of half its chromosomes in order to receive an equal number from a male parent; and thus the fer- tilized egg contains chromosomes, and hence hereditary material, from two different indi- viduals. Now, this sexual reproduction occurs very widely in the organic world. Among some of the lowest forms of unicellular organisms it is not known, but in most others some form of such union is universal. Now, here is plainly an abundant opportunity for congenital variations; for it is seen that each individual does not come from germ material identical with that from which either parent came, hut from some of this material mixed with a similar amount from a different parent. Now, the two parents are never exactly alike, and hence the germ plasm which each contri- butes to the offspring will not be exactly alike. The offspring will thus be the result of the un- folding of a bit of germ plasm which will be different from that from which either of its parents developed, and these differences will result in congenital variations. Sexual reproduction thus results in congenital variations; and if congenital variations are necessary for the evolution of the living machine—and we shall soon see reason for believing that they are—we find that sexual188 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. reproduction is a device adopted for bringing out such congenital variations. INHERITANCE OF VARIATIONS. The reason why congenital variations are needed for the evolution of the living machine is clear enough. Evanescent variations can have no effect upon this machine, for they would disappear with the individual in which they appeared. In order that they should have any influence in the pro- cess of machine building they must be permanent ones; or, in other words, they must be inherited from generation to generation. Only as such variations are transmitted by heredity can they be added to the structure of the developing machine. Therefore we must ask whether the variations are inherited. ^ ^ ^ In regard to the congenital variations there! can be no difficulty. The very fact that they are congenital shows us that they have been pro-- duced by variations in the germ plasm, and as> such they must be transmitted, not only to the) next generation, but to all following generations,, until the germ plasm becomes again modified., This germ plasm is handed on from generationi to generation with all its variations, and hence) the variations will be added permanently to thee machine. Congenital variations are thus a means^ for permanently modifying the organism, and by\ their agency must we in large measure believei that evolution through the ages has taken place. With the acquired variations the matter stands: quite differently. We can readily understandTHE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 189 how influences surrounding an animal may affect its organs. The increase in the size of the muscles of the blacksmith’s arm by use we under- stand readily enough. But with our understand- ing of the machinery of heredity we can not see how such an effect can extend to the next gen- eration. It is only the organ directly affected that is modified by external conditions. Ac- quired variations will appear in the part of the body influenced by the changed conditions. But the germ plasm within the reproductive glands is not, so far as we can see, subject to the influ- ence of an increased use, for example, in the arm muscles. The germ material is derived from the parents, and, if it is simply stored in the indivi- dual, how could an acquired variation affect it ? If an individual lose a limb, his offspring will not be without a corresponding limb, for the hereditary material is in the reproductive organs, and it is impossible to believe that the loss of the limb can remove from the hereditary material in the repro- ductive glands just that part of the germ plasm which was designed for the production of the limb. So,^ too, if the germ plasm is simply stored in the individual, it is impossible to conceive any way that it can be affected by the conditions around the individual in such a way as to ex- plain the inheritance of acquired variations. If acquired variations do not affect the germ plasm they cannot be inherited, and if the germ plasm is only a bit of protoplasmic substance handed down from generation to generation, we can not believe that acquired variations can influence it. From such considerations as these have arisen190 THE STOKY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. two quite different views among biologists; and, while it is not our purpose to deal with disputed. points, these views are so essential to our subject, that they must be briefly referred to. ^ One class; of biologists adheres closely to the view already ' outlined, and insists for this reason that acquired! variations can not under any conditions _be^ in- herited. They insist that all inherited variations^ are congenital, and due therefore to direct varia- tions in the germ plasm, and that all instances oti seeming inheritance of acquired variations ares capable of other explanation. The other school i is equally insistent that there are abundant in- stances of the inheritance of acquired characters,;, claiming that these proofs are so strong as ta demand their acceptance. Hence this class of; biologists insists that the explanation of heredity} given as a simple handing down from generation to generation of a germ plasm is not completes and that while it is doubtless the foundation of heredity, it must be modified in some waj; so as to admit of the inheritance of acquiree. characters. j -u There is no question that has excited suen j wide interest in the biological world during thi last fifteen years as this one of the inheritance a acquired characters. Until about 1884 the quee: tion was not seriously raised. Heredity wa^ known to be a fact, and it was believed tha while congenital characters are more commonL inherited, acquired characters may also frequentl; be handed down from generation to generatmii The facts which we have noted of the contim ity of germ plasm have during the last tittee.THE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 191 years led many biologists to deny the possibility of the latter. The debate which arose has con- tinued vigorously, and can not be regarded as settled at the present time. One result of this debate is clear. It has been shown beyond question that while the inheritance of congenital characters is the rule, the inheritance of acquired characters is at all events unusual. At the present time many naturalists would be inclined to think that the balance of evidence indicates that under certain conditions certain kinds of acquired characters may be inherited, although this is still disputed by others. Into this discus- sion we cannot enter here. The reason for refer- ring to it at all is, however, evident. We are searching for nature’s method of building ma- chines. It is perfectly clear that variations among animals and plants are the foundations of the successive steps in advance made in this machine building, but of course only such varia- tions as can be transmitted to posterity can serve any purpose in this development. If there- fore it should prove that acquired characters can not be inherited, then we should no longer be able to look upon the direct influence of the sur- roundings as a factor in the machine building. We should then have nothing left except the con- genital variations produced by sexual union, or the direct variation of the germ plasm as a factor for advance. If, however, it shall prove that acquired characters may even occasionally be in- herited, then the direct effect of the environment upon the individual will serve as a decided assistance in our problem.192 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. Here, then, we have before us the factors which have been concerned in the building of the living machine under nature’s hands. Repro- • duction keeps in existence a constantly active, unstable, readily modified organism as a basis! upon which to build. Variation offers constantly new modifications of the type, while heredity’ insures that the modifications produced in the? machine by the influences which give rise to the; variations shall be permanently fixed. METHOD OF MACHINE BUILDING. Natural Selection.—The method by which these3 factors have worked together to build up the3 living machines is easily understood in its general! aspects, although there are many details as yetD unsolved. The general facts connected with the3 evolution of animals are matters of cominoni knowledge.. We need do no more than outlinee the subject, since it is well understood by all.. The basis of the method is natural selectioUy, which acts in this machine building something: as follows: The law of reproduction, as we have seen, pro-*^ duces new individuals with extraordinary rapidity,' and as a result more individuals are born than; can possibly find sustenance in the world. Hencei only a few of the offspring of any animal or plant! can live long enough to produce offspring in turnj. The many must die that the few may live; and; there is, therefore, a constant struggle among thei individuals that are born for food or for room in the world. In this struggle for existence of coursotTHE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 193 the weakest will go to the wall, while those that are best adapted for their place in life will be the ones to get food, live, and reproduce their kind. 1 his IS at all events true among the lower animals, ^though with mankind the law hardly applies Now among the individuals that are born there will be no two exactly alike, since variations are universal many of which are congenital, and thus born with the individual, and transmitted by in- heritance. Clearly enough, those animals that have a variation which makes them a little better adapted for the struggle will be the ones to live and hence to produce offspring, while those with- out such advantage will be the ones to die We ma,y suppose, for example, that some of the indi- iduals had longer necks than the average. In ime of scarcity of food these individuals would be able to get food that the short-necked indi- viduals could not reach. Hence, in times of amine, the long-necked individuals would be the ones to survive. Now, if this peculiarity were a congenital variation, it would be already repre- wouM b^- b® consequLtly it shori^ \ tl'e next generation. The short-necked individuals being largely destroyed in this struggle for food, it would follow that the the last, since all would inherit this tendency to- the^ see Tlfe T^‘ ^ generations wLld if- u disappearance of all individuals which did not show either this or somrother corresponding advantage, and in this way the i be added permanently L a pari of the macUne. When this time came this N194 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. peculiarity would no longer give its possessors Inv advantage over its rivals, since all would possess it. Now, therefore, some new variation would in the same way determine which animals should live and which should die in ^he struggle, and in time a new modification would be added to the machine. And thus this process continues one variation after another being added, until the machine is slowly built into a more and more complicated structure, always active but with a constantly increasing efficiency.^ ihe construction is a natural one. A mixing ot 1 • 1 SmTI ft Otlier construction is germ plasm in sexual reproduction or some other agencies produce congenital variations; natural. ^ .• j* m’m'iA'mns "nro^GIlVr aff^ncies uiuuu^jc ^ sllection acting upon the numerous progeny; selects the best of the new variations, andl heredity preserves and hands them down t03 ^°AU students of whatever school recognize tha force of this principle and look upon natural selection as an efficient agency m «iachmee building It is probably the most fundamental of the external laws that have guided the processs There are, however, certain other laws whict have played a more or less subordinate partt The chief of these are the influence of migration and isolation, and the direct influence of the environment. Each of these laws has its own •school of advocates, and each has been giver by its advocates the chief r61e m the process of machine building.THE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 195 MIGRATION AND ISOLATION. The production of the various types of machines has been undoubtedly facilitated by the migrations of animals and the isolation of different groups of descendants from each other by ^ various natural barriers. The variations which occur in organisms are so great that they would sometimes run into abnormal structures were it not for the fact that sexual reproduction constantly tends to reduce them. In an open country where animals and plants interbreed freely, it will commonly happen that individuals with certain peculiarities will mate with others without such peculiarities, and the offspring will therefore inherit the peculiarity not in increased degree, but in decreased degree. This constant interbreeding of individuals will tend to prevent the formation of many modifications in the machine which become started by variations. Now plainly if some such individuals, with a peculiar variation, should migrate into a new territory or become isolated from their relatives which do not have similar variations, these individuals will be obliged to breed with each other. The result will be that the next genera- tion, arising thus from two parents each of which shows the same variation, will show it also in equal or increased degree. Mi- grations and isolations will thus tend to fix in the machine variations which sexual union or other influences inaugurate. Now in the history of the earth s surface there have been many changes which tend to bring about such migra-196 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. tioDs and isolations, and this factor has doubtless played a more or less important part in the building of the machines. How great a part we cannot say, nor is it necessary for our purpose to decide; for in all these cases the machine building has only been the result of the heredi- tary transmission of congenital variation under certain peculiar conditions. The fundamental process is the same as already considered, only the details of its working being in question. DIRECT INFLUENCE OF THE ENVIRONMENT. Under this head we have a subject of great importance. It is an undoubted fact that the environment has a very decided effect upon the machine. These direct effects of the environment are very positive and in great variety. tropical sun darkens the human skin ; cold cli- mate stunts the growth of plants; lack of dwarfs all animals and plants, and hundi’^eds. of other similar examples could be selected. Another class of similar influences are those pro- - duced by use and disuse. Beyond question the; use of an organ tends to increase its size, and I disuse to decrease it. Combats of animals with ^ each other tend to increase their strength, flight! from enemies their running powers, etc. Now all these effects are direct moditicationSj of the machine, and if they are only transmitted! to following generations so as to become perma- nent modifications, they will be most agencies in the machine building. other hand, they are not transmitted by heredity,,THE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 197 they can have no permanent effect. We have heie thus again the problem of the inheritance of acquired characters. AVe have already noticed the uncertainty surrounding this subject, but the almost universal belief in the inheritance of such characters requires us to refer to it again. It is uncertain whether such direct effects have any in- fluence upon the offspring, and therefore whether they have anything to do with this machine build- ing. Still, there are many facts which point strongly in this direction. For example, as we study the history of the horse family we find that an originally five- toed animal began to walk inore and more on its middle toe, in such a way that this toe received more and more use, while the outer toes were used less and less. Now that such_ a habit would produce an effect upon the toes m any generation is evident; but apparently this influence extended from generation to gen- eration, for, as the history of the animals is followed. It IS found that the outer toes became smaller and smaller with the lapse of ages, while the middle one became correspondingly larger until there was finally produced the horse with its one toe only on each foot. Now here is a line oi descent or machine building in the direct line 01 the effects of use and disuse, and it seems very natural to suppose that the modification has been produced by the direct effect of the use of the organs. There are many other similar instances where the line of machine building has been quite parallel to the effects of use and disuse. If there- fore, acquired characters can be inherited ’to any extent, we have, in the direct influences of the198 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. environment an important agency in machine building. This direct effect of the conditions is apparently so manifest that one school of biologists finds in it the chief cause of the varia- tions which occur, telling us that the conditions surrounding the organism produce changes in it, and that these variations, being handed down to subse(][uent generations, constitute the basis ot the development of the machine. If this factor is entirely excluded, we are driven back upon the natural selection of congenital variations as the only kind of variations which can permanently effect the modification of the machine. CONSCIOUSNESS. It may be well here to refer to one other' factor in the problem, because it has somewliat recently been brought into prominence. This; factor is consciousness on the part of the animal.. Among plants and the lower animals this factor, can have no significance, but consciousness cer-- tainly occurs among the higher animals. Justt when or how it appeared are questions whichi are not answered, and perhaps never will be.-. But consciousness, after it had once made itss appearance, became a controlling factor in thet’ development of the machine. It must not be. understood by this that animals have had any consciousness of the development of then bocy, or that they have made any conscious endeavours; to modify its development. This has not always; been understood. It has been frequently sup> posed that the claim that consciousness has anTHE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 199 influence upon the development of an animal means that the animal has made conscious efforts to develop in certain directions. For example, it has been suggested that the tiger, conscious of the advantage of being striped, had a desire to possess stripes, and the desire caused their appearance. This is absurd. Consciousness has been a factor in the development of the machine, but an indirect one. Consciousness leads to effort, and effort has a direct Influence in development. For example, an animal is conscious of hunger, and this leads to efforts on his part to obtain food. His efforts to obtain food may lead to migration or to the adoption of new kinds of food or to conflicts with various kinds of rivals, and all of these efforts are potent factors in deter- mining the direction of development. Conscious- ness, again, may lead certain animals to take pleasure in each other’s society, or to recognize that in mutual association they have protection against common enemies. Such a consciousness will give rise to social habits, and social habits are a very potent factor in determining the direction in which the inherited variations will tend; not, perhaps, because it affects the varia- tions themselves, but rather because it determines which variations among the many shall be pre- served and which rejected by natural selection. Consciousness may lead the antelope to recognize that he has no chance in a combat with a lion, and this will induce him to flee. The habit of flight would then develop the power of flight, not because the antelope desired such power, but because the animals with variations which gave200 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM, increased power of flight would be the ones to escape the lion, while the slower ones would die without offspring. Thus consciousness would indirectly, though not directly, result in the lengthening of the legs of the animal and in the strengthening of his running muscles. Beyond a doubt this factor of consciousness has been a factor of no little moment in the development of the higher types of organic machines. We can as yet only dimly understand its action, but it must hereafter be counted as one of the influences in the evolution of the living machine. But, after all, these are only questions of the method of the action of certain well demonstrated, fundamental factors. Whether by natural selec- tion, or by the inheritance of acquired characters produced by the environment, or whether by the effect of isolation of groups of individuals, the machine building has always been produced in the same way. A machine, either through the direct influence of the environment, or as a result of sexual combination of germ plasm, shows a variation from its parents. This variation proves of value to its possessor, who lives and transmits it permanently to posterity. Thus step by step, one part is added to another, until the machine has grown into the intricately adapted structure which we call the animal or plant. This has been nature’s method of building machines, all based upon the three properties possessed by the living cell — reproduction, variation, and heredity.THE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 201 SUMMARY OF NATURE’S POWER OF BUILDING MACHINES. Let US now notice the position we have reached. Our problem in the present chapter has been to find out whether nature possesses forces adequate to explain the building of machines with their parts accurately adapted to each other so as to act harmoniously for certain ends. Astronomy has shown that she has forces for the building of worlds geology, that she has forces for making mountain and valley ; and chemistry, that she has forces for building chemical compounds. But the organism is neither a world, nor a mass of matter, nor a chemical compound. It is a machine. Has nature any forces for machine building ? We have found that by the use of the three factors, repro- duction, variation, and heredity, nature is able to produce a machine of ever greater and greater complexity, with the parts all adapted to each other. Now the difference between a machine and a mass of matter is simply in the adaptation of parts to act harmoniously for definite ends. Hence if we are allowed these three factors, we can say that nature does possess forces adepxate to the manufacture of machines. These forces are not chemical forces, and the construction of the machine has thus been brought about by forces entirely different from those which produced the chemical molecule. Eu^t we have plainly not reached the bottom of the matter in our attempt to explain the machinery of living things. We have based the whole process upon three factors. Reproduction,202 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. variation, and heredity are the properties of all living matter j but they are not, like gravity and chemism, universal forces of nature. They occur in living organisms only. Why should they occur in living organisms, and here alone 'i These three properties are perhaps the most marvellous properties of nature; and surely we have not finished our task if we have based the whole pro- cess of machine building upon these mysterious phenomena, leaving them unintelligible. We must therefore now ask whether we can proceed any farther and find any explanation of these funda- mental powers of the living machine. It must be confessed that here we are at present forced to stop. We can proceed no further with any certainty, or even probability. We may say that variation and heredity are only phases of re- production, and reproduction is a property of the i living cell. W^e may say that this power of re- production is dependent upon the power of assi- milation and growth, for cell division is a result, of cell growth. We may further say that growth i and assimilation are chemical processes resulting: from the oxidation of food, and that thus all oft these processes are to be reduced to chemical I forces. In this way we may seem to have ai chemical foundation for life phenomena. Butt clearly this is far from satisfactory. In the^ firstt place, it utterly fails to explain why the living; cell has these properties, while no other body pos- sesses them, nor why they are possessed by living; protoplasms alone, ceasing instantly with death.. Indeed, it does not tell us what death can be.. Secondly, it utterly fails to explain the marvels?THE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 203 of cell division with resulting hereditary transmis- sion. For all this we must fall back upon the structure of protoplasm, and say that the cell machinery is so adjusted that the machine, when acting as a whole, is capable of transforming the energy of chemical composition in certain direc- tions. These fundamental properties are then the properties of the cell machine just as surely as printing is the property of the printing press. We can no more account for the life phenomena by chemical powers than we can for printing by chemical forces manifested in the burning of the coal in the engine-room. To be sure, it is the chemical forces in the engine-room that furnishes the energy, but it is the machinery of the press that explains the printing. So, while chemical forces supply life energy, it is the cell machinery that must explain the fundamental living factors. So long as this machine is intact it can continue to run and perform its duties. But it is a very delicate machine, and is easily broken. When it is broken its activities cease. A broken machine cannot run. It is dead. In short, we come back once more to the idea of the machinery of proto- plasm, and must base our understanding of its properties upon its structure. It is proper to state that there are still some biologists who insist that the ultimate explanation of protoplasm is purely chemical, and that life phenomena may be manifested in mixtures of compounds that are purely physical mixtures, and not machines. It is claimed that much of this cell structure described above is due to im- perfection in microscopic methods, and does not204 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. really exist in living protoplasm, while the mar- vellous activities described are found only in the highly organized cell, but do not belong to simple protoplasm. It is claimed that simple protoplasm consists of a physical mixture of two different compounds, which form a foam when thus mixed, and that much of the described structure of proto- plasm is only the appearance of this foam. This conception is certainly not the prevalent one to-day; and even if it should be the proper one, it would still leave the cell as an extremely com- plicated machine. Under any view the cell is a mechanism, and must be resolved into subordi- nate parts. It may be uncertain whether these subordinate parts are to be regarded simply as chemical compounds physically mixed, or as smaller units, each of which is a smaller mechan- ism. At all events, at the present time we know of no such simple protoplasm capable of living activities apart from machinery, and the problem of explaining life, even in the simplest form known, remains the problem of explaining a mechanism. THE ORIGIN OF THE CELL MACHINE. We have thus set before us another problem, which is after all the fundamental one, namely, to ask whether we can tell anything of nature’s method of building the protoplasmic machine. The building of the higher animal and plant, as we have seen, is the result of the powers of protoplasm; but protoplasm itself is a machine. What has been its history 1THE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 205 We must first notice that no notion of chemical evolution helps us out. It has been a favourite thought with some that the origin of the first living thing was the result of chemical evolution. As the result of physical forces there was pro- duced, from the original nebulous mass, a more and more complicated system, until the world was formed. Then chemical phenomena became more and more complicated, until, with the pro- duction of more and more complicated compounds, protoplasm was finally produced. A few years ago, under the impulse of the idea that protoplasm was a compound, or at least a simple mixture of compounds, this thought of protoplasm as the result of chemical evolution was quite significant. Physical forces, chemical forces, and vital fences ex- plain successively the origin of toorlds, protoplasm, and organisms. This conception has, however, no longer much significance. We know of no such living chemical compound, apart from cell machinery. A new conception of protoplasm has arisen which demands a different explanation of its origin. Since it is a machine rather than a compound, mechanical rather than chemical forces are required for its explanation. Have we then any suggestion as to the method of the origin of this protoplasmic machine ? Our answer must, at the present, be certainly in the negative. The complexity of the cell tells us plainly that it cannot be the ultimate living substance which may have arisen from chemical evolution. It is made up of parts delicately adapted to act in harmony with each other, and its activity depends upon the relation of these206 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. parts. Whatever chemical forces may have accomplished, they never could have combined different bodies into linin, centrosomes, chromo- somes, etc., which, as we have seen, are the basis of cell life. To account for this machine, there- fore, we are driven to assume either that it was produced by some unknown intelligent power in its present condition of complex adjustment, or to assume that it has had a long history of build- ing by successive steps, just as we have seen to be the case with the higher organisms. The latter assumption is, of course, in harmony with the general trend of thought. To-day protoplasm is produced only from other protoplasm; but, plainly, the first protoplasm on the earth must have had a different origin. We must therefore next look for facts which will enable us to understand its origin. "We have seen that the animal and plant machines have been built up from the simple cell as the result of its powers acting under the ordi- nary conditions of nature. Now, in accordance with this general line of thought, we shall be compelled to assume that previous to the period of building machinery which we have been con- sidering, there was another period of machine building, during which this cell machine was built by certain natural forces. But here we are forced to stop, for nothing: which we yet know gives even a hint as to the; method by which this machine was produced. We have, however, seen that there are forces im nature efficient in building machines, as well as 5 those for producing chemical compounds; and I this, doubtless, suggests to us that there may be*THE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 207 similar forces at work in building protoplasm. If we can find natural forces by which the simplest bit of living matter can be built up into a complicated machine like the ox, with its many delicately adjusted parts, it is certainly natural to imagine that the same forces may have built this simpler machine with which we started. But such a conclusion is for a simple reason im- possible. We have seen that the essential factor in this machine building is reproduction, with the correlated powers of variation and heredity. Without these forces we could not have advanced in this machine building at all. But these pro- perties are themselves the result of the machinery of protoplasm. We have no reason for thinking that this property of reproduction can occur in any other object in nature except this proto- plasmic machine. Of course, then, if reproduc- tion is the result of the structure of protoplasm we cannot use this factor in explaining the origin of this protoplasm. The powers of the completed machine cannot be brought forward to account for its origin. Thus the one fundamental factor for machine building is lacking, and if we are to explain nature’s method of producing protoplasm from simpler structures, we must either suppose that the parts of the cell are capable of repro- duction and subject to heredity, or we must look for some other method. Such a road has how- ever not yet been found, nor have we any idea in what direction to look. But the fact that nature has methods of machine building, as we have seen, may hold out the possibility that some day we may discover her method208 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. of building this primitive living machine, the cell. It is useless to try to go further at present. The origin of living matter is shrouded in as great obscurity as ever. We must admit that the disclosures of the modern microscope have complicated rather than simplified this problem. While a few years ago chemists and biologists were eagerly expecting to discover a method of manufacturing a bit of living matter by artificial means, that hope has now been practically abandoned. The task is apparently hopeless. We can manipulate chemical forces and produce an endless series of chemical compounds. But we cannot manipulate the minute bits of matter which make up the living machine. Since living matter is made of the adjustment of these micro- scopic parts of matter, we cannot hope to make a bit, of living matter until we find some way of making these little parts and adjusting them together. Most students of protoplasm have therefore abandoned all expectation of making even the simplest living thing. We are appar- ently as far from the real goal of a natural explanation of life as we were before the dis- covery of protoplasm. GENERAL SUMMARY. It is now desirable to close this discussion of seemingly somewhat unconnected topics by bringing them together in a brief summary. This will enable us to see more clearly the position in which science stands to-day uponTHE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 209 this matter of the natural explanation of living phenomena, and to picture to ourselves more concisely our knowledge of the living machine. The problem we have set before us is to find out to what extent it is possible to account for vital phenomena by the application of ordinary natural laws and forces, and therefore to find out whether it is necessary to assume that there are forces needed to explain life w^hich are different from those found in other realms of nature, or whether vital forces are all correlated with physical forces. It has been evident at a glance that the living body is a machine. Like other machines it consists of parts adjusted to each other for the accomplishment of definite ends, and its action depends upon the adjustment of its parts. Like other machines, it neither creates nor destroys energy, but simply converts the potential energy of its foods into some form of active energy, and, like other machines, its power ceases when the machine is broken. With this understanding, the problem clearly resolved itself into two separate ones. The first was to determine to what extent known physical and chernical laws and forces are adequate to an explanation of the various phenomena of life. The second was to determine whether there are any known forces which can furnish a natural explanation of the origin of the living machine. Manifestly, if the first of these problems isinsolv- able, the second is insolvable also. In the study of the first problem we have reached the general conclusion that the secondary phenomena of life are readily explained by the Q210 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. application of physical and chemical forces acting in the living machine. These secondary^ pheno- mena include such processes as the digestion and absorption of food, circulation, respiration, excretion, bodily motion, etc. Nervous phe- nomena also doubtless come under this head, at least so far as concerns nervous force. We have been obliged, however, to exclude from this correlation the mental phenomena. Mental phe- nomena can not as yet be measured, and have not yet been shown to be correlated with physical energy. In other words, it has not yet beem proved that mental force is energy at all; and if: it is not energy, then of course it can not be* included in the laws which govern the physical I energy of the universe. Although a, close rela-- tion exists between physical changes in thebraini cells and mental phenomena, no further connec- tion has yet been drawn between mental powerr and physical force. All other secondary phe-- nomena, however, are intelligently explained by, the action of natural forces in the machinery on the living organism. While we have thus found that the secondary phenomena of life are intelligible as the result! of the structure of the machine, certain otheri fundamental phenomena have been constantly} forcing themselves upon our attention as a/oiW2^«^ tion of these secondary activities. The power o contraction, the power of causing certain kind : of chemical change to occur which result in metai holism, the property of sensibility, the property; of reproduction—these are fundamental to at. living activity, and are, after all, the real phe^THE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 211 nomena which we wish to explain. But these are not peculiar to the complicated machines. We can discard all the apparent machinery of the animal or plant and find these properties still developed m the simplest bit of living matter. To learn their significance, therefore, we have turned to the study of the simplest form of matter in which Uiese fundamental properties are manifested. Ihis led us at once to the study of the so-called protoplasm, for protoplasm is the simplest known torm of matter that is alive. Protoplasm itself at first seemed to be a homogeneous body, and was looked upon as a chemical compound of hi<^h comp exity. If this were true its propertfes would depend upon its composition, and would be explained by the action of chemical forces, bucfi a conception would have quickly solved the problem, for it would reduce living properties to chemical powers. But the conception proved to be delusive. Protoplasm, at least the simplest orm known to possess the fundamental life pro- perties, soon showed itself to be no chemical compound, but a machine of wonderful intricacy. The lundamental phenomena of life and of protoplasin have proved to be both chemical and mechanical. Metabolism is the result of the oxidation of food, and motion is an instance of transference of force. Our problem then re- solved itself into finding the power that guides the action of these natural forces. Food will not undergo such an oxidation except in the presence ot protoplasm, nor will the phenomena of meta- bdism occur except in the presence of living protoplasm. Clearly, then, the living protoplasm212 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. contains within itself the power of guiding this play of chemical force in such a way as to give rise to vital phenomena, and our search must be not for chemical force, but for this guiding principle. Our study of protoplasm has told us clearly enough that we must find this guiding principle in the interaction of the machineiy within the protoplasm. The microscope has told us plainly that these fundamental principles are based upon machinery. The cell division (repro- duction) is apparently controlled by the centro- some; the heredity by the chromosomes; the constructive metabolism by the nucleus in general, while the destructive metabolism is also seated in the cell substance outside the nucleus. Whether these statements are strictly accurate in detail does not particularly affect the general conclusion. It is clearly enough demonstrated that the activi- ties of the protoplasmic body are dependent upon the relation of its different parts. Although we have got rid of the complicated machinery of the organism in general, we are still confronted Avith the machinery of the cell. But our analysis cannot, at present, go further. Our knowledge of this machine has not as yet enabled us to gain any insight as to its method. of action. We cannot yet conceive how this- machine controls the chemical and physical forces? at its disposal in such a way as to produce the' orderly result of life. The strict correlation i between the forces of the physical universe and; those manifested by this protoplasm tells us that! a transformation of energy occurs Avithin it, but; of the method of that transformation Ave as yet:THE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 213 know nothing. Irritability, movement, metabo- lism, and reproduction appear to be not chemical properties of a compound, but mechanical pro- perties of a machine. Our mechanical analysis of the living machine stops short before it reaches any foundation in the chemical forces of nature. It is thus clearly apparent that the pheno- mena of life are dependent upon the machinery of living things, and we have therefore the second question of the origin of this machinery to answer. Chemical forces and mechanical forces have been laboriously investigated, but neither appear adequate to the manufacture of machines. They produce only chemical compounds and worlds with their mountains and seas. The construction of artificial machines has demanded intelligence. But here is a natural machine—the organism. It is the only machine produced by natural methods, so far as we know; and we have, therefore, next asked whether there are, in nature, simple forces competent to build machines such as living animals and plants ? In pursuance of this question we have found that the complicated machines have been built out of the simpler ones by the action of known forces and laws. The factors in this machine building are simply those of the fundamental vital properties of the simplest protoplasmic machine. Reproduction, heredity, and variation, acting under the ever-changing conditions of the earth’s surface, are apparently all that are needed to explain the building of the complex machines out of the simpler ones. Nature has forces ade-214 THE STORY OF LIFE’S MECHANISM. quate to the building of machines as well as forces adequate to the formation of chemical compounds and worlds. But here again we are unable to base our explanation upon chemical and physical forces. Reproduction, heredity, and variation are pro- perties of the cell machine, and we are therefore thrown back upon the necessity of explaining the origin of this machine. Can we find a mechanical or chemical explanation of the origin of proto- plasm ? A chemical explanation of the cell is impossible, since it is not a chemical compound, but a piece of mechanism. The explanation given for the origin of animals and plants is also here apparently impossible. The factors upon which that explanation depended are factors of this completed machine itself, and can not be used to explain its origin. We are left at present there- fore without any foundation for further advance. The cells must have had a history of construc- tion, but we do not as yet conceive any forces which may be looked upon as contributing to that history. Whether life phenomena can be manifested by any mixture of compounds sim- pler than the cell we do not yet know. The great problems still remaining for solu- tion, which have hardly been touched by modern biology in all its endeavours to find a mechanical explanation of the living machine, are, therefore, three. First, the relation of mentality to the general phenomena of the correlation of force; second, the intelligible understanding of the mechanism of protoplasm which enables it to guide the blind chemical and physical forces ofTHE LIVING MACHINE BUILDING FACTORS. 215 * nature so as to produce definite results; third, the kind of forces which may have contributed to the origin of that simplest living machine upon whose activities all vital phenomena rest —the living cell.INDEX. A. Absorption of food, 41. Acquired characters, inherit- ance of, 188, 197. variations, 183. Amoeba, 89. Anatomical evidence for evolu- tion, 164. Aquacity, 96. Arm compared with wing, 166. Aristotle, 9. Assimilation, 97,144,172,176, 202. Asters of dividing cells, 116. B. Barry, 77, 78. Bathybias, 101. Biology a new science, 9,14,25. Blood, 47, 48, 49, 85, 89. Blood-vessels, 47, 48. Body as a machine, 32, 36, 62. Bone cells, 85. Building of the living machine, 152, 155, 157, 159, 192, 201, 206. C. Cartilage cells, 84. Cell as a machine, 147, 149. description of, 85. division, 113, 114, 120. 216 Cell, discovery of, 72. doctrine, 75. substance, 80, 145, Cells, 70,101, 103, 138, 139. Cellular structure of organ- isms, 80. Cell waU, 79, 88. Centrosome, 112, 114, 115,, 119, 122, 123, 129. Challenger expedition, 100. Chemical evolution, 205, Chemical theory of vitality,, 24 of life, 94, 136. Chemism or mechanism, 71,, 202. Chemistry of digestion, 38,, 39 ; of protoplasm, 92; oH respiration, 50. Chromatin, 110, 112, 114,120,, 172, 176. Chromosomes, 115, 116, 119,, 123, 127, 129,132, 175. Circulation, 46. Colonies of cells, 102. Comparison of the body and a i machine, 34. Congenital variations, 182, 184, 187 ; inheritance of,, 188. Connective-tissue cells, 86. Conservation of energy, 16,27. Consciousness as a factor ini machine building, 198. Constructive chemical pro- cesses, 63, 65, 66, 145. Continuity of germ plasm, 178.217 INDEX. Correlation of vital and physical forces, 22, 26, 33, 34, 35, 36. Cytoblastema, 77. Cytology, 19. D. Darwin, 98. Death of the cell, 148. Decline of the reign of proto- plasm, 102. Destructive chemical pro- cesses, 63, 65, 66, 146. Dialysis, 40, 42, 43. Digestion, 38. E. Egg, 122, 140, 175. division of, 78. fertilization of, 121. Embryological evidence for evolution, 162. Energy of nervous impulse, 56, 68. Environment, 196. Evidence for evolution as a method of machine build- ing, 161, 167. Evolution, 18, 26, 98, 155. Experiments with developing eggs, 141. F. Fat, absorption of, 44. Female pronucleus, 129. Fern cells, section of, 83. Fertilization of the egg, 113, 121 ; significance of, 131. Fibres in protoplasm, 104 ; in spindle, 116, 119. Forces at work in machine building, 171, 202, 207. Formed material, 79. Free cell formation, 79. G. Geological evidence for evolu- tion, 161. Germ plasm, 177. H. Heart as a pump, 47. Heat, 35, 57. 58. Heredity, 171, 173, 202; ex- planation of, 175. Hereditary traits, 132, 176. Historical geology, 15. History of the living machine, 154, 170. Horses’ toes, loss of, 197. Huxley, 20, 92, 100, 101. I. Irritability, 68. Isolation, theory of, 195. K. Karyokinesis, 114, 120. Kidneys, 53. L. Leaf, section of, 81. Life the result of a mechanism, 135, 203. Linin, 116, 121. Linnaeus, 9.218 INDEX. Lyell, 15. Lymph, 48, 49. M. Machine defined, 31. Machines the result of me- chanical forces, 136. Male cell, 123, 126. pronucleus, 128. Maturation of the egg, 123. Mechanical nature of living organisms, 22. Mechanical theory of life, 98, 166. Membrane of the nucleus, 110, 120. Mental phenomena, 60, 61. Metabolism, 68. Microsomes, 104. Migration, theory of, 195. Monera, 105. Movement, 68. Muscle, 48, 87. N. Natural selection, 192. Nerve-fibre cell, 86. Nervous energy, 55, 57. system, 54. New biological problems, 25. Nucleolus, 80, 110, 112. Nucleus, 80,101,105,110,120, 122, 132, 145, 172; forma- tion of new, 120. function of, 106,107,113. presence of, 104,105,106. structure of, 109. 0. Organic chemistry, 95. Organic compounds, artificial manufacture of, 94, 99. Origin of cell machine, 204, 205, 206. Origin of life, 98, 208. Osmosis, 41. Oxidation, 96, 202. as a vital process, 51, 70. P. Philosophical biology, 12. Physical basis of life, 91. Polar cells, 126. Potato, section of cells, 83. Pi'operties of chemical com- pounds, 96. Protoplasm, 24, 90, 99, 100, 101, 133, 135, 195. artificial manufacture of, 99. as a machine, 103, 204. discovery of, 90. nature of, 92. structure of, 103, 104. Purpose vs. cause, 20, 21. R. Reaction against the cell doctrine, 137. Reign of law, 12. of the nucleus, 109. of protoplasm, 98, 102. Relationship, significance of, 165. Removal of waste, 51, 52. Reproduction, 68, 97, 144, 171, 202; rapidity of, 172. Respiration, 49. Reticulum of cell, 104; of nucleus, 110. Root tip, section of, 81.INDEX. 219 S. Schultze, 90, 91. Schwann, 76, 77, 88. Secretion, 51, 52. Segmentation nucleus, 129. Sensations, 59. Separation of chromosomes, 119. Sexual reproduction, 121. Spermatozoan, 126, 128, 177. Splitting of chromosomes, 118. Spindle fibres, 119. Struggle for existence, 193. Summary of Part I., 149. general, 208. CJ. Undifferentiated protoplasm, 100. Unicellular animals, 87. Units of vital activity, 67. Use and disuse, 196, 197. V. Variation, 171, 181, 184, 202. Variation from .sexual union, 186. _ Variation in germ plasm, 185. Vegetative functions, 53. Villi, 43. Vital force, vitality, 22, 25, 46, 49, 66, 97, 102. Vital properties, 68; located in cells, 143. W. Wing compared with arm, 166. Wood cells, 84. TCKNBDI.L AND SPEARS, PRINTERS. EDINBURGH.LONDON: GEORGE NEWNES LIMITED, BUBLISHERS' “A very useful series of small manuals on subjects of common interest.”—Spectator. THE Library of Useful Stories., Small 8vo, doth, price Is. each Volume, post free Is. 2d. “ The more Science advances, the more it becomes concentrated in little books.”—Leibnitz. I. THE STORY OF THE STARS. By G. F. Chambers, F.R.A.S., Author of “Hand! book of Descriptive and Practical Astronomy,” &cc With 24 Illustrations. “Mr Chambers writes in a vigorous and attractive styles and shows himself able to combine to an uncommon degree scientific accuracy of statement with a clear and attractive exposition. Beginners in astronomy who wish to acquaim themselves merely with the outlines of a noble science wili' find this volume of real service.”—Speaker. '* Told in a pleasing and attractive manner.”—Athena^im. II. THE STORY OF PRIMITIVE MAN. By Edward Clodd, Author of “ The Story of Creaj tion,” &c. With 88 Illustrations. “It possesses the chief qualities that go to make a gooo book for the average man. ”—Nature. “Well printed, well bound, profusely illustrated, and ii every respect capital material, on one of the most progressive of sciences.”—Daily Chronicle. III. THE STORY OF THE PLANTS. By Grant Allen. With 49 Illustrations. “A brightly written, clear and accurate summary of th: functions and habits of plants.”—Daily Chronicle. “The whole book is excellent, but special praise is due t his exposition of the relations existing between plants am insects. Many chapters of the story he tells must prove to tb uninitiated as exciting as a romance.”—Aherdee7i Dree Press.t.THE LONDON: GEORGE NEWNEB LIMITED, PUBLISHERS. Library of Useful Stories. IV. THE STORY OF THE EARTH IN PAST AGES. By H. G. Seeley, F.R.S., Professor of Geology, Geography, and Mineralogy in King’s College, London. With 40 Illustrations. “ A simple and popular summing up of the results that have been reached by geological science.”—Scotsman. “Told plainly and pleasantly for a popular audience.”— Boohman. V. THE STORY OF THE SOLAR SYSTEM. By G. F. Chambers, F.R.A.S. With 28 Illustra- tions. “His descriptions possess the double quality of simplicity and attractiveness. ”—Nature. ^ “He repudiates the idea that unless a man can command a big telescope he is not in a position to do useful work in astronomy. . . . The little volume is an admirable example of science made easy w^ithout the sacrifice of strict accuracy of statement. ”—Speaker. VI. THE STORY OF A PIECE OF COAL. By E. A. Martin. With 38 Illustrations. “Treated with wonderful skill, simplicity, and thorough- ness. ”—Bookseller. “ Explains in simple and delightful fashion what coal is, whence it comes, and whither it goes, and in the concluding chapters shows how intimately it is connected with the im terests of the botanist, the geologist, the i^hysicist, the chemist, and the merchant.”—Bradford Observer.THE LONDON; GEOROE NEWNES LIMITED, PUBLISHERS.' Library of Useful Stories. VII. THE STORY OF ELECTRICITY. By J. Munro, Joint Author of “The Pocket-booll of Electrical Rules and Tables.” With 100 Illuss trations. “Just the kind of book to give the general reader more correct views of the subject than many a pretentious tome."— The Electrical Engineer. "For general interest we must pronounce the little booli without a peer, style and matter being alike excellent.”— Glasgotv Daily Mail. ‘ ‘ A handy little book which has certainly the great meri i of being up to date. We anticipate a large demand for the book."—Electricity. VIII. THE STORY OF EXTIHCT CIVILIZATIONS OF THE EAST. By R. E. Anderson, M.A., contributor to Chama bers’s Encyclopsedia, Encyclopaedia Britannica, ano> Dictionary of National Biography, &c. With Mapss ‘ ‘ The author has performed a much needed service in i masterly manner. ... We have nothing but praise for the work.”—Liten'ary World. " An admirable compendium of a department of knowledge which has been greatly advanced by the research of recena years."—Aberdeen Free Press. IX. THE STORY OF THE CHEMICAL ELE: MENTS. By M. M. Pattison Muir, M.A., Fellow anoi Prselector in Chemistry of Gonville and Caiui. College, Cambridge. ‘ ‘ One of the most perfect popular introductions to science extant.”—British Medical Journal. "Prof. Muir tells an enthralling story of the wonderfu: transformations of matter under the chemist’s magic wandi Ignoring formulae he appeals in homely phrase to the imaginas tion of the reader."—Knowledge.THE LONDON: GEORGE NEWNES LIMITED, PUBLISHERS. Library of Useful Stories. X. THE STOKY OF FOREST AND STREAM. By James Rodway, F.L.S., Author of “In the Guiana Forest,” &c. With about 27 Illustrations. “ Contains a short description of a tropical forest, together with some elementary lessons which can be learned by study- ing the incessant struggle for existence of its varied flora.” Academy. “A noteworthy addition to the series in which it appears.” —Scotsman. XI. THE STORY OF THE WEATHER. By G. F. Chambers, F.R.A.S., of the Inner Temple Author of “Story of the Stars,” &c. With 50 Illustrations. “ An interesting volume about weather, and especially Engl^h weather, and presents facts, ideas, and suggestions which ordinary people will be glad to know.”—James’s Budget. weather forecasts are drawn up at the Meteorological Ofl&ce, explains the construction and use of the various meteorological instruments, describes the nature and causes of such phenomena as the aurora borealis, and gives a collection of weather facts and Literary World. XII. THE STORY OF THE EARTH’S ATMOS- PHERE. By Douglas Archibald, M.A., Fellow and some- time Vice-President of the Royal Meteorological Society, London. With 44 Illustrations. One of the best of the Story series that we have read the author is frequently able from his wide travels to illustrate his remarks from his own personal experience in climates where meteorological manifestations can be witnessed on a grander scale than in our own country.”—Nature.THE LONDON : GEORGE NEWNES LIMITED, PUBLISHERS, Library of Useful Stories.. XIII. THE STORY OF GERM LIFE: Bacteria. By H. W. Conn. With 34 Illustrations. XIV. THE STORY OF THE POTTER. By C. F. Binns, late of Worcester Royal Porcelain i Works. With 57 Illustrations. XV. THE STORY OF BRITISH COINAGE. By G. B. Rawlings. With 108 Illustrations. XVI. THE STORY OF LIFE IN THE SEAS. By Sydney J. Hickson. D. Sc. , F. R. S., Prof, of Zoology ■ in the Owen’s College, Manchester. With 42 Illusts.. XVII. THE STORY OF PHOTOGRAPHY. By A. T. Story. With Illustrations. XVIII. THE STORY OF RELIGIONS. By the Rev. E. D. Price, F.G.S. XIX. THE STORY OF THE COTTON PLANT. By F. Wilkinson, F.G.S. With 38 Illustrations. XX THE STORY OF GEOGRAPHICAL DIS-- COVERY. By Joseph Jacobs. With 4 Maps, &c.. XXI. STORY OF THE MIND. By Prof. J. M. Baldwin. . XXII. THE STORY OF THE BRITISH RACE. By John Munro. With 4 Maps. XXIII. THE STORY OF ECLIPSES. By G. F. Chambers, F.R. A.S. With 19 Illustrations.. XXIV. THE STORY OF ICE. In the Present and) Past. By W. A. Brend. With 37 Illustrations.