Andrew Murray on the 12 The hasty glance which we have thus cast over animated creation sufficiently shows three things—first, that the most perfect imitations of inanimate objects do occur ; second, that this is not a rare or exceptional thing, hut one found in every class of animals, and in some found so frequently as to be the rule, and the want of it the exception ; and, lastly, that so apparent is the means to the end, that it is plain that there is a purpose in it, and that that purpose is the concealment of the animals that bear the disguise. Now, how does this come about l Is it the result of any general law; or must we be satisfied to say that these disguises have been given by Providence for the purposes of the preservation of His creatures, and rest there \ I apprehend not. This is not the mode in which the Creator carries out His ends. It is in- deed very easy to say, that a special exercise of the creative power has been used in these disguises in every separate in- stance ; but if it is so, it is different from all we know of the other workings of Providence. A great law in all of them is set in motion, which, while regardless apparently of minor details and individual interests, yet, by its general work- ing, most efficiently provides for them. Through the opera- tion of such lawrs elsewhere, we see everything harmoniously and necessarily assuming its place and its form; and we cannot doubt that such a great law also exists in this mat- ter. What is this law ? I cannot tell; but it has occurred to me, that the law may perhaps be found somewhere in the direction of an analogous force to the great law of attraction, otherwise called gravitation. Like draws to like, or like begets like. We have seen that in all the instances to which I have re- ferred the external appearance of the animal bears definite relation to the appearance of the soil on which it lives, or the objects which surround it. It would appear as if there were a genius loci, whose subtle and pervading essence spread itself around, penetrating and impregnating the denizens of the place with its facies—possibly only affecting some, the condi- tions of whose entry on existence render them more liable to receive its impression than others ; more probably affecting all, some more and some less. How this mysterious influence