21 Disguises of Nature. ing in a certain, though less marked degree, special conditions of life under which similar peculiar forms have been evolved in distant countries, viz.—the interior of ants’ nests. As already said, entomologists have of late years found many Coleopterous insects, not met with elsewhere, in the interior of ants’ nests. Some of these (the Clavigeri, the Formicosomi, $•<?.) are invested with the outward appearance of the ants among which they live; others have no special resemblance to their hosts; but the point to which I press attention here is, that the true ant-nest species are found in ants’ nests, and nowhere else ; that a pecu- liar facies (in many cases a peculiar structure) belongs to most of them, probably to all which exclusively inhabit ants’ nests. The search into ants’ nests for these exceptional Coleoptera has been carried on very keenly for some years past in Europe, but as yet little has been done in foreign countries. The little that has been done has furnished very interesting results, and results quite in keeping with the view I have been main- taining. Species of Paussi (a marked genus with an excep- tional structure, and believed to be absolutely confined to ants’ nests) have been found in Spain, in West Africa, at the Cape, at Natal, in the East Indies, at Hong Kong, in Aus- tralia, &c. Researches in North America have likewise shown resemblances to our European species in other less exceptional species found in the ants’ nests there. We must remember, however, that such a habitat is less defined and restricted, and more subject to the intrusion of external influences than the other special regions of which we have been speaking. There is another kind of condition allied to the last, also drawn from the insect kingdom, which furnishes another in- stance in support of my position. I mean the singular coinci- dence of form and appearance shown by all the species of water-beetles, wherever found. The conditions of life in a piece of water vary little, and we see as little variation in the appeax-ance of its occupants. Entomologists have had their ingenuity exercised in endeavouring to account for the pi’esence of apparently the same species of water-beetle (for instance, Colymbetes notatus) in distant countries—in New Zealand and Great Britain ; and I have myself suggested, that the eggs or larvae may have been transmitted in the water-vessels of