Disguises of Nature. 13 may operate, it may be bootless to inquire; but is it unphilo- sopbical, or inconsistent with the simplicity and grandeur of nature, to suppose that one great idea should contain the ele- ments of the laws which regulate all the different constituent parts of the created world? that as by attraction the material particles forming the solid globe gravitate to each other—as by the action of chemical affinities a like law regulates their intermixture—so a law of attraction should operate in the im- material world of thought, and influence the phenomena of organic creation? Assuming, then, as I think we are entitled to do, that some such law does exist, it will not be an unfair test of its truth to inquire whether its operation, like that of all other such laws, extends to all alike; whether its influence is ex- tended .both over the just and the unjust, over the rapa- cious and the inoffensive; or if it has only a partial bear- ing, confining itself to the weak and the defenceless, as a means of escape, in the absence of means of defence. So far as this goes, it bears the test sufficiently well. The crocodile receives the impress of its laws as well as the chameleon; the Polar bear or Arctic fox as well as the Arctic hare; the Mantis, which preys on other insects, as well as the leaf-insect, which feeds on leaves. In the one case, the deception is applied for offence; in the other, for defence. And if we remember that the numbers of those preyed upon must necessarily infinitely preponderate over those which prey upon them, we shall not be surprised at a much greater number of creatures using the disguise for protection than for offence. Another test which may be applied is more difficult of answer. Looking at it as a law, ought it not to operate by itself, independent of assistance from the animal itself;—that is, if an animal assumes a disguise, ought not the disguise to be complete, pure and simple, without the aid of contrivance or trick on the part of the animal ? A beetle, for instance, is exactly like a pellet of earth or a seed, but only so when its limbs ai'e all contracted and placed close to its body. In addition to the resemblance, we must have here the instinct of the animal to throw itself into its proper attitude to produce the disguise. True, the natural instinct of fear leads it to