Andrew Murray on the 2 may take up separately. Not that I wish it to be thereby in- ferred that they differ from each other either in their condi- tions or the laws which regulate them ; that is a question upon which we are not yet prepared to adjudicate; but I merely so take them for the convenience of obtaining some kind of order or arrangement into which to group the hetero- geneous mass of facts which bear upon the subject. I shall first cast a hasty glance over a few of those curious resemblances where we find one animal assuming the form and appearance of another, as a butterfly pretending to be a wasp, a fly a bee, &c. I do not mean to include in this category those resem- blances which the fancy of man loves to discover in all around him. Like Hamlet, we can see a camel or a weasel figured in every cloud, and, like his, they prove often very like a whale. It will be sufficient, as illustrations of such resemblances, to refer to the death’s-head moth, which carries on its thorax not a bad figure of a death’s head and cross bones; or to the Orchids and other Epiphytes, which we may compare to gaudy butterflies or other insects ; or to the fern called Aspidium Baronietz, known as the Tartarian or vegetable lamb. It grows on the elevated salt plains west of the Volga, and its rhizome presents, when the fronds are removed, a rude resemblance to the shape of the lamb. It is covered by a soft downy substance, of a reddish-brown colour, which may be compared to a fleece. Like the stems of other ferns, the inner parts are soft and pulpy, and the sap of a rich red colour re- sembling blood. From these materials a number of fabulous stories have been concocted, which are related by Struys and other authors—such as that the plant has the shape and ap- pearance of a lamb, with feet, head, and tail, distinctly formed; that it feeds upon grass, turning round upon its stem to reach it; that garments are made of its fleece ; that the wolves feed upon it, and are very fond of its flesh, from the resemblance it bears in taste to the animal lamb; and, in conclusion, after telling a number of such tales, Struys adds with commendable, though somewhat tardy caution, “ Many other things I was likewise told, which might however appear scarcely probable to such as have not seen them.”