16 Andrew Murray on the continent and its dependencies, although not properly falling under the head disguise, must not be lost sight of in consider- ing this question, and would seem to have a special bearing upon this phase of it. That such great regional resemblances exist, every naturalist knows. Contrast the deep and gloomy Javanese forests, with their gorgeous epiphytes and poisonous- looking plants, with the fir-clad alpine scenery of Norway— the arid plains of Africa with the beauty of our West Indian Islands—the strange Australian scrub with the Tartarian steppes—and see how distinctive and marked is the general character of each ; and not less marked in general effect than in individual detail. Show an experienced naturalist or botan- ist a new plant or animal, prating nothing of its whereabouts, and yet ten to one he will correctly tell the country from which it has come. There is an undefinable facies about them which enables the practised eye to allot to them their proper station, as the detective officer is said to be able to tell the felon, meet him in what company he may; and this family, or rather regional facies, extends around the particular country * as the air of its climate envelopes it—as, for instance, in the Gallapago Islands, which lie nearest to America, although 500 or 600 miles distant from it, it is found that although the ani- mals are for the most part distinct, they yet bear the Ameri- can facies. Now, although we find this regional character so well marked as I have stated, it stands to reason that all are not equally well defined. Where the contrast in climate and con- dition of life is great, the difference in organic productions is great likewise. The contrast is much greater between the fauna and flora of this country and West Africa than between those of this country and North America; and of course the converse is true likewise. Where the conditions of life are similar, the animal and vegetable products, although distinct, are found to be similar also. This gives rise to that most in- teresting class of plants and animals known as representative plants and animals. But this is a word which is used with two significations, only one of which is properly applicable to my present in- quiry. One kind of representative species (and that is the