17 Disguises of Nature. kind with which I am not at present dealing) is where a spe- cific function is allotted to widely different species, in countries whose climate and conditions greatly differ. For example, the scavenger duty, which in cold countries is mostly per- formed by the burying beetles, is in tropical countries per- formed by heteromerous beetles, a totally distinct tribe. These represent each other in their functions, although not in their form or character. The representative species with which I have to deal are those which are found, in similar countries, replacing each other both in form and function. As in plants, the Cacti of South America replacing the Eu- pliorbice of South Africa, the Epacris of Australia taking the place of the heath of the Cape, &c.; in insects, the Eleodes of California taking the place of the Blaps of Siberia, the Eucrania of the deserts of Northern Patagonia replacing the Ateuchi of the deserts of the Old World ; in reptiles, the crocodile of the Old World superseding the alligator in the New; in birds, the ostrich in Africa represented by the rhea in South America, and the emu in Australia; in mammals, the leopard represented by the jaguar, the camel by the llama, and so on. Now, it is to be observed that this class of representative species is only to be met with when similar conditions of life exist in both countries. The ostrich, rhea, emu, for instance, find the climate and the extensive plains suited to then- structure and mode of life, in all the three countries where they are found ; they are not to be met with in mountainous countries; the prehensile tailed monkies, the agile squirrels, &c., are only to be found where there are trees; and so in every other instance. Would it not, then, appear that the general character or facies of the animals in different regions is the result of some special influence or condition in the coun- try peculiar to each 1 and if we adopt this view, must it not follow as a corollary, that, where the conditions are the same, we should see the same facies appearing in each. Now, in point of fact, in those cases where the conditions approach to the same, we see enough to show it to be probable that it is so. I would go further, and say that there is good ground for holding that, were they really identical, we should see the c