G Andrew Murray on the true affinities of the different families of Coleoptera to be able to say whether such hybridisation might be possible or not in the cases I refer to. Another speculation may be, that their creation took place under similar conditions and influence of locality, which indeed, so far as we know it, corresponds with the present habit of life of the different species alluded to—the larvae of the Lyciclce being wood-feeders, like the larvae of the Longicornes, and a similar conformity of habit doubtless also existing between the larvae of Nesioticus and Nyticohates, and of other equally illustrative species which might be men- tioned. But let us now turn our attention to those resemblances which consist in an imitation of inanimate objects, or of such animate objects as, from their masses, may in one sense be looked on as inanimate. One very common phase which we find this assume, is a general similitude to the ground on which the animal lives. How closely the colour of our common hare assimilates to the benty braes in which its form is placed; and still more, how the colour of the arctic hare, the polar bear, and other animals which live in the frozen north, fits to their snow-clad land. What a near resemblance does the grouse bear to the heather in which it couches. How well the par- tridge accords with the general hue of the stubble. How diffi- cult it is to see the ptarmigan beside the gray stones among which it sits. Turning to the water, what more complete match can be found to the sandy bottom of the sea than the back of the flounder or the skate; or to the muddy bottom than the back of the plaice ? Look at the tree-frog, so deli- cately and freshly green, sitting secure among the leaves which he so closely resembles ; or at the North American frog, which is found on walls covered with gray lichen, with which he so exactly corresponds, that if lie would only sit still no one could see him. Recollect the speckled snakes and serpents, with their coloured patterns so exquisitely blended, and so exactly resembling the tangled herbage through which they glide. Look at the lizards, some of the most lively green, suited to the foliage of the trees on which they live ; others gray, like the stones among which they run ; or yellow, like the sand on which they bask. Let us not forget the chameleon—which,