3 Disguises of Nature. But leaving such fancies, we shall find plenty of curious imitations among plants and animals, so exact, that man’s fancy is not required to originate them, but his judgment to eliminate the deception. As we shall presently find in the other class of disguises, so here the greatest number is to be found in the insect tribes. The clear-wing moths have so great a resemblance to bees, or wasps, or flies, as to have received the name of Apiforme, Bombiforme, Vespiforme, Tipuliforme, according as they wear the dress of a honey-bee, a humble-bee, a wasp, or a gnat. Moths and butterflies, although belonging to very distinct divisions, sometimes assume the appearance of each other, as, for instance, Callimorpha helcita, and Dande Ilegesippe, which are so metamorphosed, that the moth might be taken for the butterfly, or the butterfly for the moth. Many moths also greatly resemble the Caddice flies {Trichoptera), as Adela frischella and Molanna angustata. A moth named Adac- tylus Bennettii, looks very like a small species of Tipula. Many two-winged flies have a most striking resemblance to bees, of which I may select, as examples, the Volucellce generally, the Gasterophilus equi, or perfect insect of the Bot, and the Bombylii, more specially the Bombylius major, which carries its disguise farther than usual. Every one knows that the bee has a long tongue ; the fly has not; but as if to imi- tate the long tongue of the bee, which is often extruded, the Bombylius has a long rostrum or snout sticking out like the tongue of the bee—the relative proportion being well pre- served. The Asaphes, although bees, are yet bees of peculiar structure and habits : they make no hives or nests for them- selves, but enter the nests of other bees, and deposit their eggs there, to be reared at the expense of the owners of the nest. They are dressed exactly like other species of Bombi, and doubtless thus escape detection on their pilfering and illegal expeditions. Fsychoda phalcenoules is a small two-winged fly, which anybody at first sight would mistake for a moth. Gibbium Scotias is a beetle, having considerable resemblance to a flea when seen in profile, and a still greater resemblance, when looked at from above, to a small brown spider, which every one sees too much of in summer. Many Coleopterous