11 Disguises of Nature. not say cause, of the change; for in species which constantly inhabit snowy regions, we find that the farther north we go the whiter they become—in the extreme north sometimes be- coming replaced by a different species, wholly and perma- nently white; as in the case of the Arctic hare taking the place of the Alpine hare—both white, but the Arctic of treble- distilled purity compared with the Alpine. In other instances, the change is not dependent upon the seasons. In fish, it is a familiar instance that the colour varies with the colour of the waters. The trout in clear streams and lakes is silvery white; in peaty waters, dark. The Lochnagar trout, for example, where the waters are dark and peaty, is nearly black on the back. The flounder, wdiich exactly resembles the ground over which it hovers, changes its hue in an amazingly short time, on passing from one bank to another of a different colour. Anglers who use minnows for bait know that if they are put in a light-coloured vessel they become pale ; and if they be transferred to a dark one, they will become dark in the space of an hour. A similar though more permanent altera- tion takes place in various birds. Colquhoun, in his enter- taining volume, the “ Moor and the Loch,” says, “ In the low corn districts, such as Lanarkshire, Renfrewshire, and the Border counties, the grouse are of a very light brown, borrow- ing a tint from the stubbles on which they delight to feed.” “ Forty or fifty are often taken at a time (by snares) during the period between the corn being cut and carried. All these birds are so light in their colour as more nearly to resemble partridges” (p. 112). And we find the converse of this to take place in partridges. “ These moor partridges,” he says, “ which spend much of their time in the heather, are of a darker colour than those of the Lowlands.” (Foot-note, p. 113.) Do any such resemblances as we have been speaking of obtain in plants ? They are comparatively few certainly; but in some of the lower plants they certainly do exist. The crusted lichen often bears a close resemblance to the rock on which it is found, and the olive-tinted fucus to the wet reefs which it covers ; but the examples are few in plants, and, what is not to be overlooked, we can see no purpose for their exist- ence.