14 Andrew Murray on the shrink into itself; and we may look upon the resemblance as •merely an accidental quality which is brought into play by this instinct. But this hardly seems to meet the difficulty. Two concurrent conditions are needed to produce one effect; and we can scarcely hold that the same law which in other instances produces the effect by its sole action, also, unaided, produces the effect resultant from a double action. Were such a law of affinities or attractions as I have sug- gested to regulate the external phenomena of creation, we might expect that, as we do in chemistry, so here we should find many affinities opposing each other, and that the attrac- tion of the colour or appearance of the soil, or habitation of the species, would only he one of many elements by which the conditions of its form and appearance would be deter- mined. This would meet an objection which might other- wise be raised against my suggestion—viz., that on many animals there is no indication, or at least no apparent in- dication, of an affinity in appearance to the character of the place in which they are found. True, the answer may be likened to that used by the phrenologists, who, when some man with all the good bumps commits an atrocious crime, explain the anomaly by telling us he had counteracting bad bumps. The answer, by force of association, rather approaches the ridiculous ; we are inclined to look upon it as a quirky evasion, but this is owing to its misuse and exaggeration ; in sober earnest, it is so only when misapplied. Every one of us, if we ask our own conscience, must admit that we have a constant fight going on between our good and our bad inclina- tions; and the same struggle between opposing qualities, between opposing habits, and opposing laws, is to be seen in every branch of science. Should my view appear of a nature tending to throw light upon the phenomena of creation, 1 apprehend it will not be found of less weight if I go a little further, and offer to extend it to the phenomena of life (as in contradiction to the phenomena of creation). These are by no means the same thing. If applicable solely to the phenomena of crea- tion, my suggestion might apply to all such cases of per- manent similarity to the solum in quo as I have adduced ;