Disguises of Nature. 23 relation to the phenomena of creation. As already said, the animal created in and hearing the typical facies of any geo- graphical region, is suited to the conditions of life in that region, and thrives better there than anywhere else ; and cannot live at all in regions which are much opposed to its native one. The reindeer could not live in the deserts of Sahara, nor the lion in the snows of Lapland. In fact, we may say, that where we find one set of phenomena, we shall also find the other. If we find a region of which the flora and fauna are typically peculiar, we shall find that that flora and fauna is not suited, at all events not so well suited, to any other region. They , may live in another region which has approximate conditions of life to their own, but will not thrive in it so well as in their own ; and however similar the other region may be to it, they will never make their way in it in opposition to its own native fauna and flora, so as to usurp their place. If, therefore, in nature, we find a special fauna confined to a special district, we may assume that the same conditions which influence its restriction to such local habitat also influenced its original creation. Applying this to the question of the relative amount of variation in condition of life necessary to have influenced the phenomena of creation in land and sea animals respectively, we see that if this had been alike in kind and amount, we should have had the same facies in sea animals nearly all over the globe; because temperature and some other particulars, which will suggest themselves of their own accord to the reader (the great differ- ence in the amount of which forms so important a condition of life on land), are so equal all over the sea that they could form no efficient barrier, were their effects no greater there than what they are on land. All the differences that we can detect between one region and another in the sea, would prove no barrier to the passage of most animals on land. We must therefore allow, that the inhabitants of the sea are either more susceptible than land animals (and that both in the phenomena of creation and of life) of the differences in the medium in which they live, or else that there exist in that medium other elements influ- encing the inhabitants of the sea, which on land do not affect animals, or which we cannot appreciate. If we admit this, we