Andrew Murray on the 18 same facies reappear. Let me illustrate this by two or three instances showing the effect of different degrees of nearness of condition. Compare the United States with Europe : the conditions are similar but distinct; so is the fauna. Compare the salt deserts of the Caspian with the salt deserts of the Mormons : the conditions are here more similar; and recent discoveries tell us that the facies of the fauna of these two countries is singularly alike. Compare the Gold Coast, Gabon, &c., and a portion of the coast of Mozambique. Among the Coleoptera, we find Goliaths in both, and many other species allied to species on the opposite side of the continent. They are not the same, but only belong to the same genera. Is this the result of intercommunication, and does it indicate the exist- ence of a similar zoological belt extending across the country ? It is mere conjecture to say, No ; subsequent explorations must solve the question; but it seems in the last degree improbable that the climate of the coast should extend through the centre of the land. And, lastly, compare the fauna and flora of the Arctic regions of Europe, of Asia, and of America, where the conditions cease to be different, and we find that there there is no longer a separate facies—the type of all three is the same. The light in which I look upon these facts is, that where, in a similar latitude, we have similar conditions of existence, we have dependent upon and flowing from that similar zoo- logical provinces, or separate, distinct, and isolated patches, having nothing whatever to do with each other, but, at the same time, possessing allied species; and this I maintain, not through intermixture of species, or by modification of spe- cies, or by the passage of the same species from one continent or one part of a continent to another, but by the same con- ditions of creation presenting themselves for the evolution of the creative idea. Of course, in saying this, I do not speak of identical species, which may have passed from one place to another by the ordinary means of migration or inter- communication. I speak of the general typical resemblance which we find in species distinct and peculiar to each region ; and my idea is, that as close a general resemblance would have, been found, although each of these regions of the continent of which I speak had been separated from each other by