5 Andrew Murray on the Disguises of Nature. are not very easily deceived, as it is well known that they will not even allow intruders of their own species from a neigh- bouring hive to enter with impunity. The fact may he, how- ever, that although we notice them repelling some intruders from a neighbouring hive, many may enter unnoticed, and in like manner some Volucellce may escape detection while others suffer for their intrusion. But admitting it to be so, this only explains the purpose of their being furnished with this livery; it by no means explains the means or law through which they receive i't. It may be that if the law (supposing there to be such a law) under which the bees received the creative im- pulse, and assumed their form and colouring, admitted an influence from the condition and character of their birth- place, the same influence might be extended with a similar effect to the Asaphes and Volucellce, seeing that the creative birthplace might probably be the same as that of the other, as their actual birthplace in point of fact is. My idea as to this, however, will be better understood after the reader has perused the second part of this inquiry. But even after accounting for the class of impostors which make some use or profit of their disguise, there remain others, such as the clear-winged moths, still unaccounted for, where not only the colouring of the body, but also the additional transparence of the wings, is had recourse to to complete the deception. Further, there is the case where the same colours similarly and sometimes bizarrely disposed, are repeated in dif- ferent families of insects. On this point, I may observe, that when such bizarre markings, or similar dispositions of colour occur, it usually (although not invariably) happens that the in- sects bearing them are from the same country. There are, for in- stance, several species of Coleoptera from Old Calabar in which singularly distorted angular yellow marks occur on a black ground on the back (Nesioticusflasopictus, Nyctiobates regius, Nyetiolates militaris, §fc.); and a Lycus from Jamaica bears exactly the same amount and proportion of colour as Pcecilo- derma terminale, also from Jamaica—a scarlet body with a bright ultramarine tail, and so on. Such singularities suggest two explanations; the one, the possibility of new species arising from hybridisation—and we scarcely yet know enough of the