4 Andrew Murray on the insects are found in ants’ nests, seemingly created to pass their lives there; for some are eyeless, and many so exactly resemble the ants among which they live as to be not easily recognis- able. Many examples of similarity between unlike and distant families occur also in this class, although the resemblance chiefly applies to distribution of colour. Take, for instance, some of the Lycidce, and compare them with Paristemia and Poeciloderma, two genera of Longicorns, where the colour, although most unusual and startling, is distributed exactly in the same manner, and produces the same effect. In plants, similar resemblances between distinct orders and families exist. I may refer to the tree-fern (Alsophila) and the Cycad (Stangeria), like each other, and yet belonging to distinct orders; or to the Sesleria ccerulea and Carex rupes- tris; to the Potentillci alpestris and Rcmuncidus alpestris ; to Polygonum Convolvulus and Convolvulus septum; to Ta- marix gallica, and many of the cypresses, or to Calluna vulgaris and Iludsonia ericoides,—all as showing respectively much similarity to each other in the foliage, and yet belong- ing to different families. Such are some of the resemblances in the organic crea- tion, which might without impropriety be termed impostures or personations. It is difficult to suggest any probable theory by which they may be accounted for. Some, no doubt, can be explained as being found in species which are the out- liers or transitionary links connecting two different orders or families together; as, for instance, Adella frischella and Molanna angustata, connecting the Lepidoptera and Tri- choptera ; Carex rupestris and Sesleria ccerulea, connecting the carices and the grasses, &c. But there remain a vast number of instances which cannot so be disposed of. On what principle are the clear-winged moths, and numerous two- winged flies, invested in the robes of bees 1 Kirby and Spence thought that the meaning or object of such imitations on the part of some of them (the Volucellce for instance, which de- posit their eggs as parasites in bees’ nests), was to allow of their entering the nest without being discovered. This may be so; and at least in the case of Asaphes, of which I have above spoken, probably is so, although we know that the bees