7 Disguises of Nature. certainly, whatever be the cause (whether it be an accidental result from mental emotion, an instinctive impulse indepen- dent of its will, or a deliberate intention to produce the effect), does exhibit a most striking resemblance in colour to that of the substances on which it rests, and a more marvellous power of adaptation to the variations in their hue than perhaps any other living creature. Remember the crocodile or alligator floating silently down the muddy stream, so like the trunk of a tree, that the unwary animal drinking on the margin only sees the deception for a moment, when the ti’ee suddenly starts into life, and the victim is hurried below the waters locked in the reptile’s formidable jaws. These are examples taken from the vertebrata, but we find similar deceptions repeated, only more frequently and more cai’efully, in the lower classes of animals. In insects, this is more marked than in any other class. In beetles, the form the deception takes is very frequently that of a pellet of earth or stone (Byrrhidce, Ceutorhynehidce, <^c.), sometimes even a piece of silver or copper oi’e (Chlamydce). We see a small beetle creeping along a plant; we stretch out our hand to take it; at the slightest motion it drops to the ground, its legs and antennae collapse and are clasped close to its body, and all that remains is a small object, often irre- gularly marked by prominences, which is so like other little pellets of earth as to be scarcely distinguishable from them, and we only recognise it again by patiently waiting in silence until the insect has regained confidence, when it gradually and timidly protrudes its antennae and legs, and puts itself in motion. A very common deception among beetles, particular- ly among the Longicornes, which feed on wood, is to resemble the bark of the trees on which they feed, or, in some instances, the lichens which grow upon them {Rosalia alpina, Prionus cervicornis, §fc) The Orthoptera carry the resemblances they assume more to specific objects. The whole of that tribe par- takes more or less of the hue of their dwelling-place. The leaf-insect (PhyIlium) is an example which will occur to every one. The Mantis is only a shade less like a leaf; and some are green like a young leaf, others brown and withered like a dried up and decayed one ; and in some we find that a change similar to that in the leaf itself takes place ; they are fresh