Disguises of Nature. 19 thousands of miles, irrespective of latitude and hemisphere (the same conditions, of course, existing in other respects). In short, if we could find two countries exactly corresponding in every respect, however widely separate, I should expect to find, not, of course, the same species in both (for as we have dif- ferent species in our own and every country, so we must expect to find them there), but species of the same families and of the same genera, and, more than that, species very closely allied in form and appearance. It may be said, it is easy to argue from an if; but I think here I am able to offer something more than an if. No doubt the northern Arctic shores which I have instanced are not widely sepai’ated from each other; but I am able to refer to instances of places widely separated pre- senting conditions as nearly as possible identical, and pro- ducing species correspondingly similar. The first case is that of the blind cave animals found in the caves of Europe and Kentucky. Here, in a nearly corresponding latitude, yet in position separated by half the globe, are caves extend- ing for miles into the bowels of the earth; and far in the interior of these caves,* where impenetrable darkness and everlasting silence reign, living eyeless creatures are found— more particularly a number of different kinds of insects. The number of genera and different forms yet known is few, but the number of species is considerable—almost every freshly examined cave furnishing something new. Now, the extra- ordinary thing is, not only that, in the different caves in Europe, the new species found in almost every fresh cave belong to already known cave genera,f but that the species found in Kentucky also belong to the same genera. The first species discovered there was Anophthalmus Tellkampfii, which so exactly corresponds in form and appearance to the European species, A. Schmidtii or A. Bilimekii, that any one but an entomologist would say they were the same. Adelops hirtus and Adelops Tellkampfii have since been found; and, * Schiodte says of the Carniolan caves, that the blind insects are not found until about two miles from the mouth of the cave. t The cave genera are, with one exception, confined to caves;—the one ex- ception is the genus Adelops, of which some blind species are found, not in caves, but in dark places, under moss, &c.