280 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIO N S. Case. are to be attached, otherwise the pelvis will move in the same di- rection with the head of the bone. In those cases in which the dislocation has existed for three or four weeks, it is best to place the patient upon his sound side; to fix the pelvis by one bandage, and to carry under the dislocated thigh another bandage, to which the pulleys are to be affixed per- pendicularly ; then to draw the thigh upwards, w’hilst the surgeon presses down the knee and foot, to pi'event the lower part of the limb from being drawrn with the thigh-bone. Thus the limb is used as a lever of very considerable powrer. Great care must be taken not to advance the leg in any considerable degree, other- wise the head of the thigh-bone will be forced behind the aceta- bulum into the ischiatic notch, from whence it cannot be after- wards reduced. DISLOCATION OF THE RIGHT THIGH INTO THE FORAMEN OVALE. A gentleman riding on horseback on the 4th of January, 1818, the animal suddenly started to the right side; and in endeavouring to keep his seat by the pressure of the right thigh against the sad- dle, he was thrown, and the fall occasioned a severe contusion upon his head, which produced alarming symptoms. On the fol- lowing day it was observed the right thigh was useless, and that the knee w'as raised and could not be brought into a straight line with the other, having at the same time a direction outwards, which required it to be tied to the other knee: the symptoms of injury to the head precluded, at this time, any attempt at reduc- tion. In fourteen days he was so far recovered that he was able to rise from his bed, and in a month he began to walk with crutches. On November 1st, 1818, I first saw him; and the appearances of the injured limb were then as follow:—The thigh was longer than the other by the length of the patella; the knee was ad- vanced ; and when he was in the recumbent posture, the injured leg could not be drawn down to the same length with the other.