ON FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. 165 Take away blood, and purge your patient freely, and see how far the symptoms may be the result of concussion of the brain, and not of depression. If the symptoms do not yield to depletion, then, and not till then, perform the operation of trephining. I was called to a lady who had fallen against a projection of a Case, wall in walking across her parlour. The os frontis was driven in, but there were no symptoms of compression of the brain. I bled her, and guarded cautiously against inflammation, but there was no necessity for elevating a portion of the bone. This lady never had any symptoms of injury to the brain, and she recovered by depletion alone. The old practice used to be, the moment an injury to the brain Old practice, was suspected, and the least depression of the bone appeared, to make an incision into the scalp. I have heard of a dresser in these hospitals, who, having had no accident during his week, said, “ I will make a cut in the head of one of my patients with fracture, for he may perhaps have depression, and I shall in this way have something to do before my week is up.” This dresser ought to have had a cut made in his own head. This was putting his patient to considerable hazard; for the simple fracture would, by the incision, be rendered a compound fracture. In simple fracture, then, when it is attended with symptoms of injury to the brain, deplete before you trephine; and when it is unattended with such symptoms, though there may be depression, deplete merely, and never divide the scalp. If the fracture be compound, the treatment must be very different, because a compound fracture is followed very generally by inflam- mation of the brain, and it will be of no use to trephine, when inflammation is once formed. It might be thought that it would be time enough to perform this operation when inflammation had appeared; but this is not the case, for if inflammation comes on, the patient will die whether you trephine or not, and you will be so far from arresting its fatal progress by trephining, that the operation will add to the danger of the inflammation. When inflammation of