384 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. Cases requiring amputation. Does not always succeed. limb. The ligament of the joint was still defective at the part at which it had been cut. From the sawn surface of the tibia there grew. a ligamento-cartilaginous substance, which proceeded to the surface of the cartilage of the astragalus, to which it adhered. The cartilage of the astragalus, appeared to be absorbed only in one small part; there was no cavity between the end of the tibia ' and the cartilaginous surface of the astragalus. A free motion ex- i isted between the tibia and astragalus, which was permitted by the length and flexibility of the ligamentous substance above de- scribed, so as to give the advantage of a joint where no synovial articulation or cavity was to be found. This experiment not only shewys the manner in which the parts are restored, but also the ad- vantage of passive motion: for if the part be frequently moved, the intervening substance becomes entirely ligamentous; but if it be left perfectly at rest for a length of time, ossific action proceeds from the extremity of the tibia into the ligamentous substance, and thus produces an ossific anchylosis. CASES WHICH RENDER AMPUTATION NECESSARY. i i a But still cases occur in which amputation is found absolutely ne- cessary, either to preserve the life of the patient, or to prevent his being doomed to the constant necessity of using crutches on account of the deformity and stiffness of the limb. It seems to me, however, to be by much too prevailing an opinion, that the amputation of the limb is a sure means of pre- serving life; for when this operation used to be more frequently performed in our hospitals than it now is, for compound dislocation of the ancle and compound fracture of the leg, a considerable num- ber of our patients died. Very lately a man at Tring had his foot torn off by a threshing machine, and the limb was obliged to be am- putated at the usual place below the knee. The operation was performed by Mr. Firth, but the man died in the evening of the sixth day: and a case has occurred since I commenced the pub- lication of this work, of equally fatal termination. • i