253 DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. his dismemberment; or, in homelier phrase, to hew him limb from limb. The following is the French account of this execution. “ II arriva a la place de Greve a trois heures et un quart, re- gardant d’un oeil sec et ferme le lieu, et les instrumens de son sup- plice. On lui brula d’abord la main droite; ensuite on le tenailla, et on versa, sur ses plaies, de l’huile, du plomb fondu, et de la poix-resine. On proceda ensuite a l’ecartellement. Les quatre chevaux firent pendant cinquante minutes des efforts inutiles pour demembrer ce monstre. Au bout de ce terns la, Damien, etant encore plein de vie, les bourreaux lui couperent avec de bistouris, les chairs et les jointures nerveuses des cuisses, et de bras; ce qu’on avoit ete oblige de faire en 1610 pour Ravaillac. II respiroit encore apres que les cuisses furent coupees, et il ne rendit fame que pendant qu’on lui coupoit les bras. Son supplice depuis l’instant qu’il fut mis sur l’echafaud, jusqu’au moment de sa mort, dura pres d’une heure et demie. II conserva tout sa connoissance, et releva sa tete sept ou huit fois, pour regarder les chevaux, et ses membres tenailles et brules. Au milieu des tormens les plus affreux de la question il avoit laisse echapper des plaisanteries.”— I Dictionnaire Historique. j Old persons are much less liable to dislocations than those of [middle life, because the extremities of bones in advanced age are often so soft as to break under tlje force applied, rather than quit heir natural situations. Persons of lax fibre are prone to disloca- ion, because their ligaments easily tear, and their muscles possess ittle power of resistance. From these circumstances old people vould be exposed to frequent dislocations, but for the softened itate of the extremities of their bones. Young persons are also very rarely the subjects of dislocations rom violence ; but now and then such accidents do occur : and I tave described an instance of them in a child at seven years of age. II generally happens that their bones break, or their epiphyses give way, rather than that the parts suffer displacement. I read >f dislocations of the hip in children, but their history is that of Execution of Damien. Dislocations rare in old age. Dislocations rare in the young.