DISLOCATIONS OF THE WRIST-JOINT. 4(>7 SIMPLE FRACTURE OF THE RADIUS, AND DISLOCATION OF THE ULNA. The radius is frequently broken, and the ulna at the same time dislocated; the fracture usually happens one inch above the arti- culation. If it occurs in a very oblique direction, so great a dis- placement of the radius ensues, that dislocation of the ulna for- wards is also produced. There is a preparation of this accident in the museum of St. Thomas’s Hospital. The lower end of the radius is seen in its natural situation, articulated with the carpal bones. An inch above the ligamentum annulare carpi, the broken extremity of the radius is seen projecting under the flexor tendons of the wrist, which have been removed to shew its situation; the ulna is dislocated for- wards, and rests upon the os orbiculare. The signs of this injury are, that the hand is thrown back upon the fore arm, so as at first sight to exhibit the appearance of a dislocation of the hand backwards ; and a projection of the ulna is felt under the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle, just above the os orbiculare ; and, thirdly, the fractured extremity of the radius is easily detected, under the flexor tendons of the hand. I have seen this accident frequently, and at first did not exactly under- stand the nature of the injury; indeed, dissection alone taught me its real character. A very powerful extension is required to bring the broken ends of the radius in apposition, and great difficulty exists in confining them when this is effected. The hand is to be extended by the surgeon, and the fore and upper arm are to be drawn back by an assistant; then a cushion is to be placed upon the inner part of the wrist, and another to the back of the hand, firmly bound down by a roller, for the purpose of keeping the ulna and broken end of the radius in situ; a splint, well padded, is then to be applied to the back part and inner side of the fore arm, which is to extend to the extremities of the metacarpal bones; these splints are to be confined by a roller, reaching from the upper part of the fore arm H II 2 A frequent acci- dent. Dissection. Diagnostic marks of this accident. Mode of reduc- tion and its difficulties.