244 DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. Appearances on dissection. Ligaments. Tendons. extravasation of blood, frequently renders the detection of the in- jury exceedingly difficult. Sometimes, after the reduction of dislocations, suppuration ensues, and the patient falls a victim to excessive discharge and irritation. Mr. Howden, who was one of our most intelligent apprentices at Guy’s Hospital, and was afterwards surgeon in the army, related the following case :—“ A man had his thigh dislocated upwards and backwards on the ilium, which was soon after reduced; the next day a considerable swelling was observed on the part, which continued to increase, accompanied with rigours, and in four days the patient died. On dissection, the capsular ligaments, and ligamentum teres, were found entirely torn away, and a considerable quantity of pus extravasated in the surrounding parts.” I attended the master of a ship, who had dislocated his thigh upwards; an extension was made, apparently with success ; but in a few days a large abscess formed on the thigh, which destroyed the patient. Fortunately, however, such a result is by no means common. When, from length of time, or any other cause, the reduction of r li the limb is rendered impracticable, the bone forms for itself a new bed, and some degree of motion is gradually recovered; althougl in neglected dislocations of the lower extremity, the patient is ever after lame ; and in those of the upper, the motion and power of the limb are very much diminished. On examination of the bodies of persons who die in consequence of dislocations arising from violence, the head of the bone is found completely removed from its socket. The capsular ligament is torn transversely to a great extent; the peculiar ligaments of joints, as the ligamentum teres of the hip, are torn through: but the tendon of the biceps, in dislocation of the os humeri, remains uninjured, as far as I have been able to ascertain by dissection; although I would by no means be understood to say that this is universally the case. The tendons which cover the ligaments are also torn ; as the tendon of the subscapularis muscle, in the dislocation in the axilla; and according to the extent of this laceration, is the h