FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. 321 Thus then, it appears, that in a longitudinal fracture of the head and neck of the bone partly external to the ligament, if the bones be applied to each other, pressed together, and in a state of rest, and the vessels remain, ossific union can be produced; Union of these although the ossific deposition is extremely slight when compared bones- with that of other bones. The fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone may be confounded Diagnosis, i with the dislocation of the os femoris upon the dorsum ilii; with that into the ischiatic notch ; and with that upon the pubes : as in all these luxations the limb is shorter. From the two former it may be distinguished by the eversion of the foot, and by the mobility of the limb in fracture ; and from the latter, by the ball of the os femoris being felt in the groin in the dislocation on the pubes ; otherwise the eversion of the foot in both cases might lead to their being confounded. With respect to the treatment of fractures of the neck of the Treatment, thigh-bone within the capsular ligament, various are the means to ; which I have had recourse, and which I have known resorted to by j others, for the purpose of producing union in this accident, but all without avail. ! One mode consisted in placing the fractured limb over a double inclined plane, thus maintaining a regular and constant extension, which, by raising the planes at the knee, may be increased to any degree that the surgeon may require, or the patient can bear; at the same time, a bandage is applied around the pelvis and upper part of the thigh, to bring the neck of (the bone, as much as pt^sible, in approximation with the head from which it has been separated: and this extension, with ipressure, has been steadily preserved for three months. With •espect to the patient’s body, it has been placed at an angle of i’orty-five degrees. A second method consisted in placing a board at the foot of he bed, upon which the foot of the sound limb rested, so as o prevent the descent of the body in the bed; the other limb was VOL. II. Y