VESICAL HERNIA. 154 which is extended from the left side of the bladder and intestinum rectum to its attachment on the inside of the left os innominatum; preventing the intestines from falling down too low into the pelvis; therefore, in this case, this expansion of the peritoneum must have been forced out of its usual situation. “ Suffering daily more and more extension, it will at length per- mit the intestines to fall down to the very bottom of the pelvis, be- tween the bladder and the rectum; therefore, when in the case above related, the resistance of the integument and muscles was taken off by the operation, the peritoneum was forced out, and at first was filled only with lymph, which gave it the appearance of an hydatid; but its thinness not being able to resist any longer the force of the abdominal muscles, pressing the viscera downwards, it burst, and the intestines soon followed through the aperture. If this is allowed, we can easily account for the oblique course that the gorgeret took when first introduced, as the intestines had raised up the fundus of the bladder against the back part of the ossa pubis, so that my forceps could not be conveyed into the blad- der, but almost in a perpendicular direction; and I was obliged to press with my hand on the lower part of the abdomen, just above the pubes, to bring the bladder and its contents sufficiently low for the laying hold of the last stone with my forceps.” Scarpa met with a case in which this hernia formed a tumour in the perineum. This form of hernia, and the vaginal, may become dangerous during gestation, and some cases illustrating this are related in Dr. Smellie’s cases on midwifery. VESICAL HERNIA. This variety of hernia is of very rare occurrence, for I have only seen two instances of it in the living subject. The symptoms characterising this species of hernia are the following. The size of the tumour varies, and is not much affected by the position of the body: but is most affected by the quantity of urine contained j n r It ir f> tn r * lit \b, r tp t I I ■