DISSECTION. 366 Hour-glass contraction. Ureters. Size of calculi. Pain not more severe from a large stone. Number of calculi. gland,; and in some cases is met with in a bag, formed directly behind the prostate. We have a preparation showing an hour-glass contraction of the' bladder, in which one large stone is lodged in the superior part, and several in the inferior; and another, exhibiting a stone in the bladder, with a large fungus growing from the prostate gland. The ureters are dilated, the kidneys enlarged; sometimes one is enlarged and the other wasted from an ulcerative process. The size of calculi generally varies from a drachm to two ounces; but the weight is not always proportioned to the size, but depends upon the composition of the stone. The largest stone, which I have successfully extracted, weighed near six ounces. At the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital there is one eight ounces. Mr. Mayo, of Winchester, removed one, in fractured portions, of fifteen ounces. I have one in my possession which I extracted, but not successfully, weighing sixteen ounces. We have a model of a stone, given to the collection by Mr. Forster, which, I understand, was twenty-five ounces in weight. One in Trinity College library, at Cambridge, weighs thirty-two ounces and seven drachms. But the largest stone which has been found in the human body is that given to the College of Surgeons by Sir James Earle, this weighed forty-four ounces. The severity of the symptoms is often in an inverse ratio to the size of the stone; which, when it is very large, produces less pain, because the urine dribbles away, or is voided by veiy slight contraction of the bladder. The number of calculi is very various; but in the majority of cases only one is found ; two or more not unfrequently exist. I have extracted nine in one case, thirty-seven in another, and the greatest number I ever extracted in the operation was one hundred and forty-two; these were from Mr. Allis, of Worcester, a patient of Mr. Carden; I have them now in my possession, many of them are about the size of marbles. A great number of stones does not add much to the patient's