DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. 342 Case of dislo- cation inwards. Dislocation forwards. tleman from Barbadoes, who had dislocated his knee. I made a few notes on the case at the moment, which were as follow. The gentleman was thrown from a gig; the tibia was dislocated, and the fibula broken a little below its head. The head of the tibia projected much on the inner side of the condyle of the os femoris. My friends, Mr. Caddell and Mr. Richards, surgeons at Barbadoes, saw him a quarter of an hour after the accident; the leg was extended from the thigh-bone in a bent position of the limb; the extension was a long time continued, and force was employed by several persons for half an hour before the luxation was reduced. The limb became excessively swollen, and remained so for many weeks, the climate probably being unfavourable to his recovery; but, at length, the inflammation and its consequence were subdued by local depletion. When I saw him, eighteen months had elapsed from the accident, and he could not then bend the joint at right angles with the thigh; there was also an unna- tural lateral motion of the joint, from the injury which the liga- ments had sustained. The fracture of the fibula had injured the peroneal nerve, as was evident from the numbness of which he complained in the outer part of the leg and foot. The tibia is now and then dislocated in a direction forwards. In this accident, when the person is recumbent, the external marks of the injury are these : the tibia is elevated; the thigh-hone is depressed, antb is thrown somewhat to the side as well as back- wards ; the os femoris makes such pressure on the popliteal artery, as to prevent the pulsation of the anterior tibial artery on the foot; the patella and tibia are drawn by the rectus muscle forwards. Such were the appearances in a man of the name of Briggs, brought into Guy’s Hospital in the year 1802, not only with this accident, but with a compound fracture of the tibia of the other leg, with dislocation of the head of the fibula. Mr. Lucas was obliged to amputate the compound fracture, and the man is now living at Walworth. The limb in this case was easily reduced by extending the thigh from above the knee, and by drawing the leg from the thigh, and inclining the tibia a little downwards. As