365 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. has been caused from jumping from a considerable height, the lower end of the tibia, where it is joined to the fibula by ligament, is split off, and remains connected with the fibula, which is also broken from two to three inches above the joint; and the broken end of the fibula is carried down upon the astragalus, occupying the natural situation of the tibia. The malleolus externus of the fibula remains in its natural situation, with two inches of the fibula and the split portion of the tibia; the capsular ligament attached to the fibula at the malleolus externus, and the three strong fibular tarsal ligaments, remain uninjured. This accident generally happens in jumping from a considerable height, or in running violently with the toe turned outwards when (the foot being suddenly checked in its motion while the body is carried forwards upon it, the ligaments on the inner side of the ancle give way. It may also be caused by a fall on that side when the foot is fixed. To distinguish a fracture of the fibula, the hand must grasp the leg just above the ancle, and the foot must be freely rotated; when the motion of the foot being communicated to the fibula, pain will be felt, and a crepitus perceived. For the reduction of this dislocation, which cannot be too soon Mode of reduc- i accomplished, the patient is to be placed upon a mattress properly prepared, and is to rest on the side on which the injury has been sustained; the surgeon is then to bend the leg at right angles with the thigh, so as to relax the gastrocnemii muscles as much as possible; and an assistant grasping the foot, must gradually draw it in a line with the leg. The surgeon then fixes the thigh and presses the tibia downwards, thus forcing it upon the articulating surface of the astragalus. Great force is required if the limb be placed in the extended position, from the resistance of the gastroc- jtemii; and it is pleasing to observe, that after the most violent at- .empts have been employed by others, a well-informed surgeon will gently bend the limb, and under comparatively slight extension, re- urn the parts to their natural situation. When the limb has been reduced it is still to remain upon its Treatment.