290 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. Symptoms. Not detected. Dissection of a case. whilst he was walking across a paved yard in the dark: he did not know that one of the stones had been taken up, and his foot suddenly sunk into the hollow, and he fell backwards. When his limb was examined, the head of the thigh-bone was found upon it' the os pubis. In this species of dislocation the limb is an inch shorter than the other, the knee and foot are turned outwards, and cannot be rotated inwards, but there is a slight flexion forwards, and out- ward ; and in a dislocation which had been long unreduced, the motion of the knee backwards and forwards was full twelve inches ; but the striking criterion of this dislocation is, that the head of the thigh-bone may be distinctly felt upon the pubes, jkei above the level of Poupart’s ligament, on the outer side of the fo femoral artery and vein ; and it feels as a hard ball there, which w readily perceived to move by bending the thigh-bone. Although this dislocation is apparently easy of detection, I havi fe known three instances in which it was overlooked, until it was toe |TI late for reduction: of one, there is a preparation at St. Thoma® lira Hospital; another occurred to a gentleman from the country, ii Bi« whom it was not discovered until some weeks after the accident iln who then submitted to an extension which did not succeed, ant,ji|hi came to London to ask my opinion, when I advised him against : faj further attempt: to which, indeed, he himself was disinclined fer The third, a patient in Guy’s Hospital, who was admitted for ai ulcerated leg, and found to have a dislocation upon the pubes |tj, which had happened some years before. It really must be grea * carelessness which leads to this error, as the case is so striking! j ai marked. ■ life I dissected one of these dislocations, and we have it preserver U|j in our anatomical collection. It shews changes of parts near! jp* equal to those of the dislocation into the foramen ovale. Th I ft original acetabulum is partly filled by bone, and partly occupie by the trochanter major, and both are much altered in their forn ft The capsular ligament is extensively lacerated, and the ligamentui 4 teres is broken. The head of the thigh-bone had torn up Poi L,