466 CANCER LABI I. Operation for division of the soft palate. Its commence* ment. At first begins in a wart. be turned upon the other by means of a key ; thus when introduced, it could be easily fixed. Mr. Wiess showed me one of the same form, of elastic gum. A plate of silver, with two springs which passed through its centre, so as to expand when pushed up, would answer the same purpose. The common contrivance is a piece of silver, and a sponge connected to it by a chain or stem ; the sponge being passed into the nose through the aperture in the palate, there expands by the moisture, and fixes the silver plate against the opening, but the animal fluids in the sponge soon become putrescent, and render the breath extremely offensive. A portion of membrane from the roof of the mouth might be partially pared off, and turned over the opening, its circumference being placed in contact with the edges of the aperture so as to produce adhesion ; but of this operation I have not any experience. For a circular deficiency in the velum palati, an artificial palate of elastic gum will answer best. 3 An operation similar to that for hare-lip, has been performed for a congenital division of the soft palate. Mr. Cruickshank tried it and failed; M. Roux, of Paris, and Mr. Alcock, of London, have since been successful. CANCER LABII. This disease wears two different appearances in its commencement. It sometimes assumes the character of a warty excrescence, at others, it is an ulcerated fissure in the lip attended with surrounding hardness. When it is at first a wart it is covered by an incrustation, upon removing which an elevated and ulcerated surface is exposed with surrounding hardness. A fresh incrustation forms, additional growth takes place in some parts, and ulceration in others, until at length a considerable projection is produced. When the incrustation is now removed, the surface freely bleeds, luxuriant granulations appear in some parts and deep depression in others. It extends