Bleeding. Removal of the sutures. After treatment. Caution in giving food. Mode of using pins. Fissure in the bone. Two fissures in the lip. 464 OF TIIF. DOUBLE HARE-LIP. air, and the more dry it is kept, the better. The coronary artery of the lip bleeds freely in the operation, but it ought not to have a ligature applied to it, as when the sutures are tightened the orifices of the artery become sufficiently compressed to prevent haemorrhage. The general rule for the removal of the sutures is on the fourth and fifth days. On the fourth day take away the upper thread, and upon the fifth day the inferior one ; but although this is the general rule, yet if there be much inflammation or tendency to suppurate about the sutures, both should be romoved on the fourth day. After the removal of the sutures, it is best not to apply any plaster unless the adhesion be incomplete at any part, and then a very narrow and long strap may be carried from cheek to cheek across the lip. In giving the child food after the operation, it should be done in such a manner as not to disturb or moisten the lip. If pins are employed, they are to be introduced at the same part of the lip as the sutures, and then the ligatures are to be twisted over their ends in the figure of an oo. The pins should be of silver or gold, with steel points, which points admit of easy removal; great care is required when taking away the silk and pins, that the adhesions may not be disturbed; this is to be done at the same period after the operation, as when sutures are used. A fissure in the bone accompanying that in the lip, makes no difference in the mode of performing the operation, but renders its success more doubtful, from the want of support by bone which the lip would otherwise receive. In general also, in this case, the fissure in the lip extends into the nostril, and it requires great care on the part of the surgeon to produce a union of the upper part of the fissure without deformity. OF TIIE DOUBLE IIARE-LIP. If there be a fissure on each side extending through the lip,