DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 447 known it then effected by bending the limb over the knee, even without the application of very great force. As soon as the reduction has been accomplished, the arm should After-treatment, be bandaged in the bent position ; evaporating lotions should be applied, and the limb be supported in a sling; the fore arm should be bent at rather less than a right angle with the upper arm. A splint may be placed in the sling for the better support of the limb. LATERAL DISLOCATION OF THE ELBOW7. In this case the ulna, instead of being thrown into the posterior Nature of the fossa of the os humeri, has its coronoid process situated on the accident' back part of the external condyle of the humerus. The projec- tion of the ulna backwards is greater in this than in the former dislocation, and the radius forms a protuberance behind and on the outer side of the os humeri, so as to produce a hollow above it; the rotation of the head of the radius is distinctly felt by rolling the hand. Sometimes the ulna is thrown upon the internal condyle of the os humeri, so as to produce an apparent hollow ! above it: the rotation of the head of the radius is distinctly felt by rolling the hand. Sometimes the ulna is thrown upon the internal condyle of the os humeri, but it still projects posteriorly, as in the external dislocation; and then the head of the radius is placed in the posterior fossa of the humerus. The external condyle of the os humeri in this case projects very much outwards. I have never had an opportunity of dissecting this injury. The manner in which the lateral dislocation is produced is the Causes of this same as in that directly backwards, but the direction of the fall is aecide"t- varied; it is also caused by the wheel of a carriage passing over the arm whilst it is placed upon uneven ground. The reduction of each may be effected as in the former dislocation, by bending the arm over the knee, even without particularly attending to the direction of it inwards or outwards ; for as soon as the radius