ON FRACTURES OF TIIF. VERTEBRAE. 192 descended. He was thrown out of the swing, and when he was taken up, was found to be paralytic in the lower extremities. He soon became paralytic in his upper extremities also, and a few weeks afterwards he was brought to town in this state. It was suspected that there was some disease of the spine, produced by the injury the neck received, when the rope suddenly caught it, but no deformity could be discovered. An issue in the neck was advised, with-a view of producing counter-irritation; but before this plan could be carried into effect, the boy died. On examining the body, it was found that one of the vertebral arteries had burst, and that extensive extravasation had taken place from the foramen magnum to the sixth cervical vertebra. The whole sheath of the spinal marrow was covered with blood. Mr. Heaviside has a beautiful preparation made from this subject. ... These cases, probably, admit of no remedy where the extrava- Treatment. 1 J J sation is considerable. I do not know what can be done, except to bleed in the first instance, in order to prevent further extrava- sation ; and afterwards to promote absorption, and excite counter- irritation by the application of blisters. I mention these cases to you as worth knowing, that you may make your own observations on them when they occur, rather than as cases about the treatment of which much is understood in the present state of our knowledge. They are of too rare occurrence to enable us to lay down any- positive principles as to the mode in which they are to be treated. ON FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBRA!. Fractures, with displacement of the spine, are by no means unfrequent; they have been improperly called dislocations ; but dislocations of the spine are extremely rare, and only occur in the cervical vertebrae. What are called dislocations are, in fact, fractures with displacement. It is not that one vertebra is separated from another, for this very- rarely happens, and only in the cervical; but that vertebra is broken through. When fracture, with displacement of the spine occurs, paralysis takes place in the