OR PULPY DISEASE OF THE TESTIS. 301 i increase. An absorbent gland also generally enlarges on the opposite side to that in which the disease begins. The disease extends by absorption into the abdomen, before the testis adheres to the tunica | vaginalis and scrotum, and produces a cord which may be traced ! upon the psoas muscle by deep pressure to the region of the kidney, i where it produces, just below the emulgent artery, a tumour, readily f felt by pressure, when the abdominal muscles are relaxed by I bending the body in the recumbent posture. At first the constitution does not suffer, although the countenance Constitutional of these persons is generally sallow at the very dawn of the disease, clffectlon- shewing that the general health is in some degree defective. There is, sometimes, uneasiness in the loins, and sharp pricking pains in the thighs and legs; and as the disease advances, the leg, thigh, and foot, on the diseased side, become cedematous, and feel weak. For some time before death the patient loses his appetite, and gets but little sleep: he has profuse perspiration; the bowels are generally very irregular, as the tumour on the abdomen increases, though prior to that time they are regular, and there is sometimes an irritability of the bladder, and frequent inclination to make water. The iliac glands are also enlarged above Poupart’s ligament. I have known the disease very rapid in its progress, terminating Period in : the patient’s existence in a few months; but I have also known it de^ructive^6* I two years in one case, five years in another, and fourteen in a third. The fact is, that a simple chronic disease in the testicle will remain stationary for a length of time, if the constitution be tolerably good; but if it become deranged, a malignant action is produced, and the disease assumes the character of the complaint I am describing. The testis in this disease has often a disposition to ulcerate; the scrotum adheres to the tunica vaginalis, and assumes a livid hue. A sense of fluctuation is produced, so that it might be supposed to contain a fluid; ulceration begins in the scrotum, and through the opening a fungous substance projects, which discharges a very large quantity of a watery fluid ; bleedings occasionally ensue from this fungus. If the testicle be pressed, a quantity of matter which looks like putrid brain insues ; the fungus sloughs, then the part