484 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. degree deprived of motion, and their sensibility was much dimi- nished. When resting upon his back in bed he could slightly draw up his legs, but he could not bend them to a right angle with the thigh; and a considerable time elapsed before he could make the muscles of the lower extremities obey the effort of his will. As there was still the appearance of severe contusion and much deep-seated tenderness in the situation of the blow upon the loins, Dr. Curry ordered blood to be repeatedly drawn away by cupping, and the bowels to be acted upon by calomel; and when the pain and tenderness, in consequence of the contusion, had been re- moved, a blister was applied to the loins, and a discharge sup- ported for three weeks by the application of the unguentum sa- binae. The liniment ammoniae was ordered to be daily rubbed upon the lower extremities. In six weeks the motion and sensa- tion of his legs had almost entirely returned, and he was then directed to be submitted to the influence of electricity. By this treatment, in ten weeks he completely recovered. I lately attended a gentleman, who, by a fall from his gig, had received a severe blow upon his loins, and who had, at first, great difficulty in discharging both his urine and faeces; but he was j I relieved by fomentation and cupping. EXTRAVASATION IN THE SPINAL CANAL. Extravasation. Spinal marrow examined in dissection. A very severe blow upon the vertebrae will sometimes produce extravasation upon the spinal cord, but more frequently upon the sheath in which it is contained. Of late years it has been our custom, in examining dead bodies, to saw off the spinous processes of the vertebrae, the more accurately to examine the spinal marrow: and under such circumstances, in cases of severe injury, blood has been several times found on the outer side of the spinal sheath; and, in one instance, it occurred upon the spinal marrow, just above the cauda equina. The case which best illustrates this subject, is one which I visited with Dr. Baillie, and Mr. Heaviside; and the particulars of which I have obtained from Mr. Heaviside, whom I have ever