490 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. Displacement of the dorsal ver- tebra. Fractures of the cervical ver- tebra. In fractures and displacement of the dorsal vertebrae, the sym- ptoms are very similar to those described in fractures of the lum- bar ; but the paralysis extends higher, and the abdomen becomes excessively inflated. I remember one of our pupils saying, when a patient was brought into Guy’s Hospital who had suffered from injury to the dorsal vertebrae, “ Surely this man has ruptured his intestines, for observe how his abdomen is distended.” But the first faecal evacuation relieved this state, and proved that it had merely arisen from excessive flatulency. This symptom proceeds from diminished nervous influence in the intestines* ; for although their peristaltic motion can proceed independently of the brain and spinal marrow, yet it is quite certain that the involuntary functions of the intestines, like those of the heart, can be influenced by the brain and spinal marrow; for we see even states of the mind producing affections of the intestines: one state rendering them torpid, and another irritable; as we see the heart leaping with joy, and depressed by disappointment. We also observe pressure on the brain rendering the intestines very difficult of excitement, even through the influence of the strongest aperients. From displacement of the dorsal vertebrae, death sooner succeeds than in similar injuries to the lumbar, the patient usually surviving the accident not more than a fortnight or three weeks; but still I knew a case of a gentleman in the city, who met with this accident, and who lived rather more than nine months. The period of ex- istence is short or protracted, as the injury is near to or distant from the cervical vertebrae, and as the displacement is slight or considerable; it depends also upon the degree of injury which the spinal marrow has sustained. Fractures of the cervical vertebrae, below the origin of the phrenic nerve, produce paralysis of the arms, as well as of the lower parts of the body; but this paralysis is seldom complete. If it occurs at the sixth or seventh vertebra, the patient has some feeling and powers of motion ; but if at the fifth, little or none. * Preceding dissolution, in almost all diseases, a great evolution of air into the intestines is observed, and from the same cause.