DISLOCATIONS OF THE OS HUMERI. 435 joint, and the posterior half of the glenoid cavity is perceptible, from the advance of the head of the bone ; the axis of the arm is thrown inwards and forwards ; the inferior motions of the limb are still capable of being performed ; but its elevation is prevented by the head of the humerus striking against the coracoid process; there is an evident protuberance formed by the head of the bone in its new situation, which is felt readily to roll when the arm is ro- tated. Mr. Brown, aged fifty years, was thrown from his chaise on his Case, shoulder, and upon examination after the accident, the roundness of the shoulder was lost, and there was a hollow under the acro- mion ; the head of the bone projected forwards and inwards against the coracoid process; the arm could be raised from the side if brought forwards, but with difficulty raised directly upwards. By extension of the shoulders backwards, I at last brought the head of the bone to the glenoid cavity, but it directly again slipped for- wards when extension ceased. This dislocation differs from that forwards under the pectoral muscle, the head of the os humeri being still on the scapular side of the coracoid process, while in the complete dislocation forwards, it is thrown on its sternal side. This accident happens from the same causes which produce the Cause, dislocation forwards. The anterior part of the ligament is torn, and the head of the bone has an opportunity of escaping forwards to the coracoid process. The mode for its reduction will be the same as that for the dis- Means of | location forwards, but it is necessary to draw the shoulders back- p^e^^’J^he01 wards to bring the head of the bone to the glenoid cavity; and recurrence of immediately when the reduction is completed, the shoulders should be bound back by the clavicle-bandage, or the bone will imme- diately again slip forwards against the coracoid process. Dislocations of the shoulder are sometimes complicated with Dislocation of fracture of the head of the os humeri ; and we have a preparation cornpiicated with in the Museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital, in which the greater fracture, tubercle at the head of the bone had been broken off, and the os humeri thrown into the axilla. This complication of accident does S F VOL. II.