193 ON FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBRAE. parts of the body situated below the injury. If it occur in the Symptoms, loins, paralysis of the lower extremities follows; the power of retaining- the faeces, and of expelling- the urine, is lost. When the injury occurs in the dorsal vertebrae, there is paralysis of the lower | extremities; the same loss of power in retaining the faeces, and j expelling the urine, with this addition, that it is accompanied with considerable inflation of the abdomen. This inflation might lead j the surgeon at first to suppose that there was some rupture of the , intestines; but after a few hours, -when the patient has had free evacuations, this inflated state of the intestines disappears. The inflation is produced by the great secretion of air into the intestines, in consequence of the diminished powers of the part. When the injury occurs below the fourth cervical vertebrae, of the lower paralysis takes place in the upper as well as the lower extremities, cei v‘cal- though not in the same degree. There is a numbness of the upper extremities, but seldom such a degree of paralysis as to deprive the patient of all power, when the injury occurs below the fourth cervical. The time in which the person dies from these injuries varies according to the seat of the accidents. If it occur in the loins, the patient will generally die in from five to six weeks; if the displacement be very considerable, he may die in three weeks: on the other hand, when the displacement is slight, the patient may live many weeks, and even months. I have known a person live two years after an injury which was supposed to be a case of fracture, with displacement of the lumbar vertebras. As there was no examination of the body, after death, in the case to which I allude, some doubt must necessarily exist as to the exact nature of the injury; for morbid anatomy can alone teach you the real nature of disease. When fracture with displacement occurs in the dorsal vertebrae, the patient generally lives a much shorter time; though even in this case I have known a person live nine months. A person of the city, named W., riding on Epsom Downs, at full Ca=e speed, came to a road which led to a chalk or gravel-pit, and finding that he could not stop his horse, he put spurs to him to endeavour to clear the pit. He succeeded in doing this, but the o