93 INGUINAL HERNIA. (employing pressure to empty the vessels, and then observe if they ! be again immediately filled. Should the circulation be free, he should then gradually and very (carefully return the intestine by small portions at a time, until the whole is reduced. At this time the patient should be placed much in the same position as when the taxis is employed. When adhesions have taken place between the intestine and sac, great care is required in opening the latter, as little or no fluid exists in it, to separate it from the intestine, which may be in con- sequence easily wounded. The sac being opened, if the adhesions be found long, and not very numerous, they may be divided to allow of the return of the protruded part. Sometimes these adhesions are only found at the mouth of the sac, or are otherwise partial; in either case they should be carefully se- parated, that the hernia may be completely reduced; but the di- vision of such adhesions, particularly at the mouth of the sac, is attended with considerable danger. Sometimes the sides of the fold of intestine which has been strangulated are found glued to- gether : in this case it is best to separate such adhesion, if it can be easily done, as the free passage of the faeces is afterwards inter- rupted, if the intestine be returned doubled back into the abdomen with such adhesion remaining. Should the intestine be gangrenous, it will be indicated both by the constitutional symptoms of the patient, and the change which the hernial tumour itself undergoes. The pulse becomes fuller and softer than during the inflammatory stage, but is often intef- mittent; the hiccough and tension of the abdomen still continue, but the vomiting is less frequent. The patient expresses himself comparatively free from pain, and leads the unwary practitioner to consider his symptoms as more favourable; the glassy eye is also a general attendant upon gangrene. The tumour, which was tense and elastic, becomes soft and doughy; the skin, which was at first red, assumes a purple hue ; the cellular membrane of hernial co- i verings becomes emphysematous, and gives a crackling sensation under the fingers. The hernia will now sometimes return into the Adhesions, Symptoms of gangrene end- ing in artificial anus.