21!) WOUNDS OF THE HEART. cation. The expectoration was not bloody. Soon after the in- jury he began to complain of a pain in the chest, and at the pit of the stomach, which gradually increased, and towards midnight be- came almost insufferable. The upper part of the thorax had swelled a little, and the motion of the right arm much increased his sufferings. This tumefaction gradually augmented, and at eleven o’clock had reached the head and face; it subsequently ex- tended all over the body before his death, which took place a little after two o’clock in the morning, apparently from strangulation. He retained his senses to the last minute. “ On examining the body twelve hours after death, the following appearances were discovered :— “ The triangular wound from the bayonet, was seated on the left side, midway between the spine and the linea alba, having the last rib and the crista of the ilium at equal distances above and be- low it; it readily admitted the point of the finger. A portion of i omentum still protruded, and appeared gangrenous. The direc- tion of the wound was obliquely upwards and inwards, and had penetrated the following parts :—the integument, abdominal mus- cles, peritoneum, the colon near its termination in the rectum, again at its arch ; the stomach inferiorly, two inches from the pylorus, and superiorly, under the left lobe of the liver, which was also wounded; the diaphragm in the centre of the tendon; after this the pericardium; the right ventricle of the heart in two places, first the inferior part, and again near the tricuspid valve; next the lungs were pierced ; and last the anterior parietes of the right ! side of the thorax, between the cartilages of the second and third ribs, terminating in the substance of the pectoral muscle. The ab- domen contained a little bloody serum; the pericardium a small quantity of blood; but the right cavity of the pleura had about two quarts of blood within it. “ Although so many parts of importance were injured, but little was indicated of the extent of mischief from the symptoms which occurred during life. Thus the colon was twice perforated, but j the stools were not tinged with blood, nor was there any focculent