BIS LOCATIONS OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. 372 Constitutional derangement. Local and con- stitutional effects. Thus, then, the compound dislocation of the ancle, leads to inflammation over a very extensive secreting surface; it produces an extended suppuration over the lining of the joint, which occasions much constitutional derangement; and, further, it be- comes the source of an ulcerative process, more or less extensive according to the treatment pursued; by this the cartilage is partly or wholly removed, and an irritative fever is supported for a great length of time; and the ulceration sometimes extends over the extremities of the dislocated bones, and leads to a greatly augmented constitutional irritation, and to protracted disease from exfoliation. These local effects are accompanied by the common symptoms of constitutional excitement. In two or three days from the accident, or sometimes as early as twenty-four hours, the patient 1 complains of pain in his back and in his head, shewing the * influence of the accident on the brain and spinal marrow. The If tongue is furred: white, if the irritation be slight; yellow, if greater; and brown, almost to blackness, if it be considerable. ® The stomach is disordered: there is loss of appetite, nausea, and sometimes vomiting. Secretion ceases in the intestines, and in j the glands connected with them, as the liver, &c.; costiveness is if® therefore an attendant symptom. The skin has its secretion I stopped; it becomes hot and dry; the kidneys also have their Rat secretion diminished; the urine is high-coloured, and small in 11 quantity. The heart beats more quickly, and the pulse becomes pea hard, which is the pulse of constitutional irritation from local ntr inflammation, and in great degrees of this excitement it beeomes in irregular and intermittent; the respiration is quicker, in sympathy *’ti with the quicker circulation; the nervous system becomes addi- la tionally affected, in high degrees of local irritation : restlessness, j He watchfulness, delirium, subsultus tendinum, and sometimes tetanus <coi occur. These are the usual effects of local irritation upon the] try constitution, occurring in different degrees, according to the violence' tp of the injury, the irritability of the system, and the powers of re-i tn'oi storation. -1 j tits