133 ON GANGRENE. as I could venture to administer ; which I have sometimes known to succeed when all other means have proved ineffectual. It was, however, unavailing in this case, and I sat by this young lady from ten o’clock in the morning, until eight in the evening, watching the regular process to death, without being able to administer to her the least relief. Let me ask you then, gentlemen, whether an experiment of this rts advan- kind is not in the highest degree interesting, and whether we are not infinitely indebted to the man who first suggested the means of administering relief, under such afflicting circumstances ? I am happy to tell you, that the gentleman to whom we are indebted for this suggestion is now present: that he is ready to have the experiment made upon himself, and that so confident is he of the success with which it may be applied, that he would have no objection, if I could permit it, to take a large quantity of the tincture of opium, in your presence, this evening. I suggested, however, that a little coloured water would answer all the purposes of illustrating the use of the instrument. The syringe, which was brought to me the other day by a very ingenious man, Mr. Reed, of Kent, is entirely a new invention, nor do I think the merit of that individual in the least degree diminished by what I have since learned. The application of the syringe to the stomach, in cases of Its applica- poisoning, is due to a gentleman whose name I shall presently tl0n‘ mention. Mr. Reed’s syringe is a new contrivance, which has been formed upon a principle in hydraulics, (first applied, I believe, by Mr. Bramah,) and which is capable of increasing the force of the instrument to the greatest possible degree. To give you an idea of its force : if I were to stand on a piece of wood, and the wood were surrounded by any thing which would prevent the escape of the water, the force of the syringe is capable of raising me from the ground. I do not wish to commit myself by any observations on a subject with which I do not pretend to be parti- cularly conversant; but I believe, gentlemen, the principle is this : when a fluid contained in a vessel, having a large diameter, is