246 DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. Formation of a new socket. Dislocation from relaxation. Case. Dislocation from accumula- tion of synovia. By the deposition of this bony matter between the periosteum and the original bone, a deep cup is formed to receive the head of the bone; and perhaps no instances can be adduced which more strongly mark the powers of nature in changing the form of parts to accommodate them to new circumstances, than these effects of dislocation. The new cup which is thus formed, sometimes so completely surrounds the neck of the bone, as to prevent its being separated without fracture ; and the socket is smoothed upon its internal surface, so as to leave no projecting parts which can interrupt the motion of the bone in its new situation. The muscles losing their action, become diminished in bulk, and reduced in their length, in proportion to the displacement of the bone towards their origin ; and if the dislocation has been long un- reduced, they lose their flexibility, and tear rather than yield to extension. Although dislocations happening from violence are accompanied by laceration of the ligaments of the joint, yet they may occur from relaxation of the ligaments only, of which the following case is an example. A girl came to my house who had the power of throwing her patellae from the surfaces of the condyles of the os femoris. Her knees were bent considerably inwards; and when the rectus muscle acted upon the patella, it was drawn from the thigh-bone into a line with the tubercle of the tibia, and laid nearly flat upon the side of the external condyle of the femur. She came from the south of Europe, where she had been brought up as a dancing girl from her earliest years, gaining her daily bread, as we see children in the streets of London, by dancing upon elevated platforms ; and she imputed to these continued and early exertions the weakness under which she laboured. A similar relaxation of ligaments, is also produced by an accu- mulation of synovia in joints. Mr. Shiilito, surgeon at Hertford, recjuested me to see a female domestic belonging to a family in my