422 OF FISTULA IN ANO. Local treat- ment. To be opened early. Four states of fistula. Operation for the first. before any operation be performed, or the wound will not heal favourably. If a patient applies with a tumour near the anus, threatening the production of an abscess, and the general health be tolerably good, its treatment is to be as follows:—apply leeches to the part, and let a lotion of the acetate of lead be constantly kept upon the surface. Give to the patient the confectio sennae with sulphur, as the most gentle aperient; all drastic medicines exert too much action of the muscles of the rectum, and determine blood to the anus, so as to add to the irritation and increase the disposition to suppuration. If the swelling increase and become more painful, apply fomentation and poultice to the part. When a fluctuation can be perceived, put a lancet into the swelling, as an early opening prevents a large collection of matter, and I have known the wound immediately close and no fresh accumulation follow. If it break by natural efforts, it is best to suffer it to discharge and to fill by granulating, to make the sinus as small as possible before any operation be performed. The sinus very rarely heals entirely by natural processes, because, as soon as its sides adhere, they are pulled asunder by the action of the sphincter ani, and union is thus constantly prevented. There are four variations of the fistula, as regards the operation. The first is that in which the abscess breaks into the rectum and near to the anus; and the operation consists in the following steps: introduce a probe into the sinus, by the side of the anus, and carry it into the rectum, so as clearly to ascertain the course of the sinus, and to learn if any part of it extends above the opening into the rectum. Then introduce the director, and pass the probe-pointed bistory of Mr. Pott through the sinus into the rectum. The finger covered with oil is next to be introduced into the intestine, and is to be placed upon the extremity of the probe-pointed bistory; then, if the sinus be of considerable length, the finger and knife are brought out together, so that the knife cuts the intestine and