ON IRRITATION. 10 Sympathy. Natural sym- pathy. Diseased sym- pathy. Definition. Irritation pro- duces diseased actions. intestines ; and caloric, in a certain degree, a stimulus to the whole system. Between all the different parts of the human frame, there exist intimate relations, which correspond with each other, and carry on a reciprocal intercourse of action. The beautiful harmony produced by these concurrent phenomena is called sympathy. Thus impressions not only produce effects on the part to which they are directly applied; but, in consequence of the freedom of communi- cation between the nervous system, parts of the body situated at a distance from those in which the original mischief exists become affected by it: the real nature of sympathy is yet unknown, but we are acquainted with many of its effects. Thus numerous examples of sympathetic actions may be adduced; the communication which exists between the uterus and breasts is a striking instance of it. Sneezing is a sympathetic action between the nose, velum palati, and the abdominal muscles; coughing, also breathing, and the ex- pulsion of the faeces, are a few among the numerous examples which might be enumerated. But sympathetic action is also the result of injury and disease, becoming the cause of restoration on the one hand, or of destruc- tion on the other; and this state of the body I call irritation. Irri- tation, gentlemen, may be defined to be an altered action, excited in the system by an unnatural impression. Thus sympathetic pain is experienced in the knee and foot from diseased hip, and at the extremity of the penis, when there is stone in the bladder. The passage of an urinary calculus through the ureter occasions retrac- tion of the testicles and pain in the thigh ; disease of the prostate, causes pain on the inside of one or both thighs; disease of the liver occasions pain in the shoulder; diseased testicle, pain in the loins; irritation of the intestines, an itching of the nose. These sympathetic effects, which we have just been describing, do not consist of morbid actions in the parts thus affected, but of disordered sensations. But morbid actions are also, sometimes, ex- cited in parts near to, or at a distance from, those originally affected. Inflammation of the testicle is frequently the consequence of irrita- tion in the urethra; and swellings of the breast, of a morbid action