FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART OF THE TIIIGII-BONE. 313 Within the articulation is found a large quantity of serous synovia; by which term I mean to express, that the synovia is less mucilaginous, and contains more serum than usual, mixed with a | small quantity of blood ; this fluid, by gradually extending the ligament, separates for a time one portion of bone from the other : it is produced by the inflammatory process, and becomes absorbed when the irritation in the part subsides. I do not know the exact period at which this change takes place, but I have seen it in the recent state of the injury. Into this fluid is poured a quantity of ligamentous matter, by the adhesive inflammation excited in the synovial membrane, and flakes of it are found proceeding from its internal surface, uniting it to the edge of the head of the bone. Thus the cavity of the joint becomes distended, in part by an in- creased secretion of synovia, and in part by the solid effusion which the adhesive inflammation produces; the membrane re- flected on the cervix femoris is sometimes separated from the fractured portions, so as to form a band for the fractured edge of the cervix to that of the head of the bone : bands also of ligament- ous matter pass from the cancellated structure of the cervix to the !head of the bone, serving to unite, by this flexible material, the one broken portion of bone with the other. The trochanter is drawn up, more or less, in different accidents; and in those cases in which it is very much elevated, I have known i a considerable ossific deposit take place upon the body of the thigh- bone, between the trochanter major and the trochanter minor. When the bone has been macerated, its head is much lighter, and pore spongy than in the healthy state, excepting on those parts |'Host exposed to friction, where it is rendered smooth by the attri- tion, which gives it a polished surface. ; These, then, are the usual appearances on dissection : there are, liowever, two preparations in the Royal College of Surgeons in vondon, which have been sent as specimens of union by bone of lie cervix femoris ; but as I may be thought prejudiced in favour 'f the opinion I have advanced, I shall give that of an excellent jnatomist whose loss we have had lately to deplore. Mr. Wilson Effusion into the joint. New ligament. Union by liga- ment. Appearances on dissection. Specimens in the college. I