FRACTURES OF THE OS INNOMINATUM. 295 Thomas's Hospital, having the appearance of the dislocation back- wards, the patient lived four days. On examination, the fracture was found passing through the acetabulum, dividing the bone into three parts ; and the head of the thigh-bone was deeply sunk into the cavity of the pelvis. The following case of fracture and dislocation of the bones of the pelvis occurred in Guy’s Hospital:— Mary Griffiths, aged thirty, was admitted into Guy’s Hospital Case, in the afternoon of the 8th of August, 1817. Her pelvis had sus- tained a severe injury from her body having been pressed by the wheel of a cart against a lamp-post. A small quantity of blood had been taken from her arm previous to her admission ; and as she was very pale, her pulse extremely weak, and her faeces passed involuntarily, no more blood was drawn. Soon after admission she was examined ; when by placing her on the face with one of my hands on the back of the right ilium, and the other on the pubes of the same side, a distinct motion and crepitus could be perceived. The posterior spine of the ilium projected upwards, above its usual junction with the sacrum, and it was thought that the ilium was dislocated from the sacrum, with some fracture either of the ilium or the sacrum. When turned on her back, and examined per vaginum, the pubes were found passing more into the cavity of the pelvis than usual. A large quantity of blood was effused from the last rib to the upper part of the thigh, on the right side. It w’as now a question whether this extravasated blood should not be discharged by making an opening through the integuments as it appeared to be fluid ; but upon consideration, it was thought that the vessels would still bleed, that she could not bear the loss of blood in her weakened state, and that the blood, when coagulated, was done, therefore, was to roll a broad bandage round the pelvis to fix it firmly, to give tinct. opii. gt. xxx., and to draw off the urine from her bladder, which contained about a pint.