242 DISLOCATIONS IN GENER A!. Svm|>toms. At first much motion. Length of limb altered. Effusion of blood. the individual who may have given a different opinion under circumstances so much less favourable for forming a correct con- clusion, will be both illiberal and unjust. The immediate effect of dislocation is to change the form of the joint, and often to produce an alteration in the length of the limb; to occasion the almost entire loss of motion in the part after the muscles have had time to contract, and to alter the axis of the limb. This altered position of the limb has been attributed, by some surgeons, to the influence of the remaining portion of liga- ment ; but in every accident, the direction of the bone is too much the same to induce the belief that it is chiefly the effect of muscular influence; for the ligament is extensively torn, in most cases scarcely any portion of it remaining whole, particularly in disloca- tions of the thigh, yet the position of the limb under the different j species of dislocation, is found subject to little variation. The form of the bone has, however, some influence on its future position: for in fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, the knee is turned out- wards ; while in dislocations, it is turned inwards: a difference which arises from the greater capacity of the bone to roll upon its axis when the neck is broken. In the first moments, however, of the dislocation, considerable > motion remains, and the position is not so determinately fixed as it afterwards becomes ; for I have seen a man brought into Guy’s ^ Hospital, who, but a few moments before, had the thigh-bone dis- located into the foramen ovale, and I was surprised to find in a case otherwise so well marked, that a great mobility of the bone still existed at the dislocated part; but in less than three i hours, it became firmly fixed in its new situation by the per- manent, or, as it is called, tonic contraction of the muscles. In some dislocations the limb is rendered shorter, and thus the muscles influenced by it are immediately thrown into a state of j f relaxation; but if the limb be elongated, the tension of the principal muscles around the joint is extreme, and they are I sometimes stretched to laceration. Blood is often effused in considerable quantity around the joint, which renders detec- |