474 OF amputation of the fingers. Application of the tourniquet. Artery compressed without the aid of a tourniquet. Instrument. Operation. mention those proper to be used in each operation, when I give an account of the mode of performing it. Of the various tourniquets, I prefer that of Petit, which is generally employed at the Borough Hospitals. In applying this tourniquet, the pad should be placed immediately under the plate to which the screw is fixed, by which the screw is made to act more effectually on the pad. That part of the limb upon which the tourniquet is to be placed should be first surrounded by a piece of soft linen to prevent the tape, when tightened, from cutting the integument. In the thigh it should be placed a little above the middle, where the artery passes nearest to the bone; and in the arm, one-third of the length of the os humeri from its head on the inner side the biceps. When amputation is required at the upper part of the thigh, the termination of the external iliac artery in the femoral is to be compressed upon the edge of the pubes by an assistant, who puts one of his thumbs over the vessel, and the other thumb upon the first, which is our usual mode. If the amputation be performed high in the arm, the assistant is either to press the axillary artery with his fingers against the head of the os humeri, or else the subclavian upon the first rib, by means of the ring of a key or a pad, passed behind the clavicle. OF AMPUTATION OF THE FINGERS. In removing a portion of a finger at the second or third joints, the operation is, 1 think, best performed in the following manner: The only instrument required is a common pointed scalpel. The finger being extended, the integument is cut through by a circular incision about half an inch beyond the joint, and a lateral incision is to be made on each side in the direction of the lateral ligaments, extending from over the joint to the circular cut; the portions of integuments are to be raised from the flexor and extensor tendons below and above as far as the joint, making two