71 ON ULCERATION. and the pressure but slight, ulceration will be produced ; and if the Causes of ulce- pressure be very considerable, and the inflammation but slight, still there will be ulceration. As a proof, both that pressure is the cause Pressure. of ulceration, and that ulceration is not necessarily accompanied with the formation of matter, I will give you the example of aneurism. Here is a specimen on the table of a large aneurism Example by of the aorta, just above the heart, into which you may pass your PresiUre- hand in the hole produced by the ulceration of part of the ribs and sternum ; those parts having been absorbed by the pressure of the aneurismal sac, producing an increased action of the absorbent vessels. Here the pressure is exceedingly great; but the degree of inflammation is very slight. In the same manner we see an aneurism of the aorta on the fore part of the spine, producing absorption of the vertebrae, by the pressure of the aneurismal bag, though no matter is effused, the ulceration being produced by the pressure arising from slight inflammation, unaccompanied by any secretion of matter. From these facts, we are led to conclude, that the formation of matter is not necessary to the ulcerative process; and that it only happens on exposed surfaces of the body, where it is necessary for the protection of sores, by covering the granulations. The constitutional symptoms of ulceration are slight. In Symptoms of general, a degree of fever attends it, but it is very slight. The pulse ulceratlon- is under 100, and at the same time small; we do not find any considerable excitement of the constitution, and the fever is rather of the hectic or chronic kind, than sudden or violent in its attack. It continues sometimes for several days. The pain attending ulceration is notvery considerable ; if you ask the patient, he will tell you that it is of a gnawing kind, as if there were insects about the part. We may conclude, therefore, that the irritation attending ulceration is but slight, and the pain not considerable. With respect to the appearance of the ulcerated part, it looks as if it were worm-eaten ; the surface is rough, and very irregular. Sometimes a very considerable portion of the body is removed by Extent of ulce- ulceration. Here is an example of an ulcerated tibia on the table. ratlon‘ See to what an extent ulceration has removed not only the cancel-