DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER JAW. 399 care at Guy’s Hospital, who had such a degree of lameness as to be unable to get his bread by his daily labour, owing to an injury sustained by falling from a considerable height, and alighting 1 upon the extremities of his toes. Upon examination of the bottom of the foot, a considerable projection was found at the roots of all the smaller toes, each of the extremities of the metatarsal bones being placed under the first phalanges of those toes. Several months had elapsed from the time of the accident; and at first, from the swelling of the foot, it was not detected. No extension, at the time when I saw him, could answer any purpose; and the only mode of relief was to wear a piece of i hollow cork at the bottom of the inner part of the shoe, to i prevent the pressure of the metatarsal bones upon the nerves and blood-vessel. The toes are sometimes dislocated ; but as the mode of their reduction will be the same as that of the fingers, I shall reserve the subject until I describe the dislocation of the fingers. DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER JAW. An articular cavity is formed behind the root of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone, which receives the condyloid process of the lower jaw at the time when the mouth is shut; and a pro- minence which is placed before this cavity receives the lower jaw when the teeth are advanced upon the upper; both the cavity ind the prominence are covered with articular cartilage. The bondyloid process of the jaw rests in the cavity with an inter- vening cartilage whilst the mouth is shut, but it advances upon the root of the zygomatic process when the jaw is much opened, or the llower teeth are advanced. Between the condyloid process and the cartilaginous surfaces an inter-articular cartilage is placed, having i double concave surface, which allows of the free motion of he jaw, and of its advance upon the zygomatic articular tu- nercle ; whilst the coronoia or anterior process of the jaw is received between the zygomatic arch and the surface of the emporal bone. Structure of the articulation. Inter-articular cartilage.