85 INGUINAL HERNIA. The surgeon should now place himself between the patient’s thighs, and grasp the tumor with his left hand, so as to put the integument covering it upon the stretch, and then having a scalpel in his right hand, he should commence the operation by making an incision through the skin, on the anterior part of the swelling, which incision should be begun opposite the upper part of the ex- ternal abdominal ring, and carried down to the inferior part of the tumor, unless the swelling be of a large size. Besides the skin and cellular substance, the external pudendal artery may be di- vided by this incision, as it always crosses the sac near the ab- dominal ring. The haemorrhage from this vessel may usually be stopped by pressure; but if very troublesome, it will be necessary to put a ligature upon it. By this incision the fascia of the cord becomes exposed, which generally forms the thickest covering of the hernia. This must be carefully cut through in the centre, so as to admit the entry of a director which is to be passed under the fascia, upwards to the ring, and downwards to the extent of the external incision, that the fascia may be safely divided upon it. Thus the cremaster muscle is brought into view, forming the next covering, which must be opened and divided in the same manner as the fascia, and with equal care, and the cellular tissue beneath must be cautiously cut through. When this has been completed, the hernial sac itself is laid bare, and the surgeon must proceed with the utmost caution to open it in the following manner. He first nips up a small portion of the membrane on the anterior and inferior part of the tumour, between his fore-finger and thumb of the left hand, and slightly rolling the membrane between them, he easily distinguishes if any intestine or omentum be included ; and if so, he raises a fresh portion. Being i satisfied that he has only a part of the sac raised, he is to place the 1 edge of the knife horizontally against it, and make an opening of sufficient size to admit the end of a director, which is then to be / introduced, that the sac may be opened upon it. In dividing the different coverings, a very cautious operator will Operation. Fascia of the cord exposed. Cremaster ex- posed. Hernial sac ex- posed. Caution in di- viding the co- verings.