131 OF STRANGULATED FEMORAL HERNIA. of the protruded parts within the sac, so that they cannot repass the opening into the abdomen, or by a contraction at the neck of the sac itself, producing the same consequences. In either case, a truss should be applied with a hollow pad, which is to receive the tumour, and prevent its increase. A gentleman consulted me, in consequence of his having an irre- ducible femoral hernia, which, upon examination, I thought only to i contain omentum; I directed him to wear a truss, with a depres- sion in the pad, just large enough to receive the tumour. Two or three years afterwards, I saw this gentleman again, when I was gratified in learning, that his hernia had nearly disappeared. This was in consequence of absorption of the omentum having been pro- duced by the pressure of the pad. If the hernia be entirely intestinal, this form of truss, with a hollow pad, cannot always be borne, as I have known it to create I very severe suffering. OF STRANGULATED FEMORAL HERNIA. The symptoms of strangulation being the same as those I have already detailed in the lecture on inguinal hernia, I shall not again repeat them, but merely observe, that in femoral hernia, they are usually more urgent on account of the smallness of the opening, through which the protrusion occurs, causing greater pressure. The patients generally complain of more pain from strangulated i femoral than inguinal hernia in the same state, and they die sooner from the former than the latter disease. The medical treatment required for strangulated femoral hernia, does not differ materially from that necessary for the inguinal ! disease. In the first place, the taxis should be employed, but in a dif- ferent mode to that I have described as proper for the reduction of inguinal hernia. The patient should be placed on a bed, with the shoulders elevated, and the thighs bent at right angles with the body, leaving only sufficient space between them to admit the arm Treatment. Case. Truss cannot al- ways be worn. Symptoms. Severe. Medical treat- ment. Taxis.