ON ULCERS. 114 Exfoliation. Irritation of the nails. Treatment. charge of extraneous bodies; when such substances become lodged, therefore, in any part of the human frame, inflammation is excited •—pus becomes secreted, which, pressing towards the surface, ulceration takes place, and the extraneous substance is thus afforded an opportunity of escaping. Ulcers frequently occasion, to a very considerable extent, exfo- liation of bone: here you can assist nature by applications which act chemically on the parts; apply, for this purpose, a lotion com- posed of muriatic acid and water, or nitric acid and water; this wash will dissolve the phosphate of lime, or earthy matter of the bone; and by removing this inanimate substance, the power of the absorbents will be increased, and a quicker separation of the diseased from the healthy parts be the consequence. The acids, however, have not so great an influence in these cases as you might be led to expect from what chemical writers have stated; still, however, you will find them to be of use, and they should therefore be employed. Ulcers which occasionally form on the fingers and toes are some- times exceedingly difficult to heal, from an irritation caused by portions of the nails. You may think this too trifling a subject to require a moment’s consideration; but I can assure you the truth is far otherwise. A nail, for example, from pressure or some other cause, shoots into the skin beside it; a fungus springs up: the surgeon applies caustic and destroys it: in a short time it rises again; the caustic is repeated, and the fungus disappears; it speedily, however, returns, and will continue to do so, notwith- standing all his efforts to the contrary, unless he remove the irritating cause. Now this cause is the projecting portion of nail; as soon as that is got rid of, the fungus will cease to grow, and the ulcer immediately heal. The best methods to adopt for the purpose of radically relieving these troublesome affections are as follow : pare down the nail as thin as you can without producing bleeding, then raise it a little, and introduce between it and the sore a small piece of lint; in this way the irritating cause may generally be removed. It sometimes happens, however, that the sore is so exceedingly irritable, that