480 OF AMPUTATION THROUGH THE UPPER ARM. Vessels. Dressing. Two flaps. Danger of amputating low down. Instruments. Position. Operation. which he should make use of the whole of the cutting- edg-e of the instrument, and employ very little pressure, as the weight of the saw itself is almost sufficient. If the ends of the bones have any sharp points projecting from them, which will sometimes happen if they have not been cleanly sawn through, these points should be carefully taken off by the bone nippers. After this amputation four vessels will generally require to be secured ; viz. the ulna, radial, and two interosseal arteries. The wounds should be dressed as that after the amputation through the carpus, and the same treatment adopted. This amputation may be performed by making two flaps, one formed from the posterior, and the other from the anterior part of the fore-arm. I have seen two cases in which inflammation and sloughing of the tendons have followed amputation performed through the lower part of the fore-arm a little above the carpus ; they both proved fatal. It is better, therefore, to avoid operating at this part, as little advantage is gained by leaving more of the bones, and the risk is greatly increased. OF AMPUTATION THROUGH THE UPPER, ARM. The same instruments as used in the last operation are all required. The tourniquet should be applied sufficiently high to allow of ample space for the performance of the amputation, and the patient should be seated in a low chair. An assistant extends the arm, and the surgeon first drawing up the integument with his left hand so as to put it on the stretch, divides it by a circular cut with the catling about one inch and a half above the olecranon ; he then raises it from the parts beneath to the extent of about two inches, according to the size of the limb, and turning it back, he, by another circular cut, carried close to the reflected integument, divides the superficial muscles, and subsequently the deep-seated muscles down to the periosteum,