DISLOCATIONS OF THE FINGERS AND TOF.S. 478 Treatment of compound dis- location of the thumb. adapted to the thumb as possible; a portion of tape, about two yards in length, is then to be applied upon the surface of the leather, in the knot which is called by sailors the clove hitch, for this becomes tighter as the extension proceeds. An assistant places his middle and fore fingers between the thumb and fore finger of the patient, and makes the counter-extension; whilst the surgeon assisted by others, draws the first phalanx from the metacarpal bone, directing it a little inward towards the palm of the hand. The extension should be supported for a considerable length of time, and if success does not attend the surgeon’s efforts, it is right to adopt the following plan. The leather and sailor’s knot are to be applied as above, and a strong worsted tape is to be carried between the metacarpal bone of the thumb and the fore finger: the arm is then to be bent around a bed-post, and the worsted tape fixed to it: a pulley is then to be hooked to the tape which surrounds the first phalanx, and extension is to be made; this mode is almost sure to succeed. If, however, under the steadiest, best directed, and most persevering attention, the bone be not reduced, a disappointment which will sometimes happen in dislocations which have been neglected, then the surgeon’s efforts must cease; no operation for the division of parts should be made, as the patient will have a very useful thumb after a time, even without reduction. In compound dislocations of the first phalanx of the thumb, if there be much difficulty in its reduction, and the wound be large, it is best to saw off the extremity of the bone, rather than to bruise the parts by long-continued extension ; they are to be healed by adhesion; and if passive motion be begun early, a joint will soon be formed, and a very useful member remain. In this case, lint, dipped in blood, is to be applied to the wound; a roller must be bound round, and the part kept cool by evaporating lotions for several days, until the wound be healed. I very recently saw the following case of compound dislocation. A gentleman came to my house, whose first phalanx had been