257 DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. dead body, is still capable of opposing a very considerable re- sistance. That the muscles are the chief cause of resistance, is strongly evinced by those cases in which the dislocation is accompanied by injury to any vital organ, and when the power of muscular action is diminished; for it is then found, that a very slight force is suf- ficient to return the bone to its situation. Thus, in the case already mentioned, of the man who had an injury to his jejunum, and a dislocation of his hip, the bone was reduced with little difficulty. When a dislocation has long existed, difficulties arise from three other circumstances. The extremity of the bone becomes united to the surrounding parts, by adhesive matter, so that even when in dis- section the muscles are removed, the bone cannot be reduced. In this state I found the head of a radius, which had been long dislocated, resting upon the external condyle of the os humeri, and which is pre- served in the collection at St. Thomas’s Hospital; and in a similar state I have seen the os humeri when dislocated. The socket is also ometimes so filled with adhesive matter, that if the bone were educed, it could not remain in its original situation, and the ori- ginal cavity is in part filled with ossific matter, so as to render it ncapable of receiving the head of the bone. Lastly: a new bony ocket is sometimes formed, in which the head of the bone is so ompletely confined, that nothing but its fracture will allow it to scape from its new situation. The means to be employed for the reduction of dislocations, are oth constitutional and mechanical; force alone is in general ob- ■ctionable, since it would be required in so great a degree as to jccasion violence and injury ; and it will in the sequel be shewn, lat the most powerful mechanical means fail when unaided by institutional remedies. The power and direction of the larger iiuscles are, in the first instance, to be duly appreciated, as these >rm the principal causes of resistance. The constitutional expedients applicable for the purpose of re- liction, are those which produce a tendency to syncope, and this cessary state may be best induced by one or other of the fol- VOL. ii. s Other diffi- culties. Means of re- duction. Constitutional.