155 VESICAL HERNIA. in the bladder. This variation of size, however, is not always ob- servable, as the bladder does not always discharge the tvhole of its contents when the patient makes water; that part of the viscus within the pelvis completely emptying itself, while the portion within the scrotum remains distended as before the attempt to void urine. Persons, therefore, labouring under this complaint, are sometimes under the necessity of raising the scrotum and pressing upon it, in order to force its contents into the pelvic por- tion of the bladder, by which means the whole volume of urine is discharged by the urethra. This imperfect evacuation of the bladder, to which these persons are liable, gives rise to another troublesome symptom, a very frequent desire to void the urine; for the part of the bladder w'ithin the scrotum, when imperfectly emptied, labours under a continued or frequently renewed sensa- tion of distention, contracts upon its contents, impels the patient frequently to micturition, and thus gives rise to the symptoms of an irritable bladder. The fluctuating feel of the tumour in the scrotum might possibly lead to the suspicion of a common hydro- cele, but in the cases which I have had an opportunity of examin- ing, the tumour has not possessed transparency; this circumstance, together with the above symptoms, will sufficiently enable a sur- geon to distinguish it from the latter disease. Two opportunities have presented themselves, which enabled me to examine the anatomy and appearances of this variety of hernia. For the first I am indebted to Mr. Maiden, of Stratford; and for the second to Mr. Hallam, at Walworth. A large inguinal hernia was perceived on the right side, which had descended into the scrotum, so as to occupy its lower part. On removing the integuments, the fascia of the cord and the cre- master were seen spread over the part of the tumour, and both somewhat increased in density; these being removed, a hernial sac came into view; the cavity of this hernial sac was laid open by incision; both omentum and intestine presented themselves; the bag in which they were contained was complete, and the bladder