60 A DII ESI VE IN FLAM M A'l’ION. APPEA RANCES. In joints. By sutures. The advantage of adhesive inflammation is admirably shown in wounds of the joints. Immediately on the knee joint being opened, the synovia escapes, the person feels faint, looks pale, and the constitution appears to have received a severe shock. The wound endangers the loss of the limb and the patient’s life, if bad treatment be adopted. If a poultice be applied to such a wound, or fomentations used, a suppurative inflammation will take place on the synovial surfaces; the cartilages become absorbed, and the bones ulcerated; a profuse discharge ensues, the constitution becomes extremely irritated; chills, succeeded by burning heat and profuse perspirations, frequently follow each other, and a person, just before in good health, is precipitated into a state of extreme debility. Sometimes the joint, after weeks, or even months have elapsed, gradually heals by granulation, with its motion either entirely gone or greatly impeded. If, on the contrary, the practitioner brings the edges of the wound immediately together, and attempts union by the first intention, the patient generally escapes from local or constitutional irritation. The edges of the wound should be brought together by a fine suture—a plan, to which some surgeons object; but when the wound is direct into the joint, it affords additional security to the patient, as the escape of the synovia has a constant tendency to prevent adhesion, and to separate the plaster. The suture should penetrate the skin, the ligament being carefully avoided. A piece of lint wetted in the patient’s blood is to be put over the wound, and over this strips of adhesive plaster. Linen cloths are to be laid over these, and kept constantly wet with the liq. plumb, acet., and spirit vini; a splint is to be placed behind the joint, to secure perfect rest. In cases where the constitution is debilitated, the adhesive inflammation is sometimes so deficient, that immense abscesses are formed from their not being bounded by adhesion; and I recollect having seen in a poor hypochondriac the back nearly covered by an abscess to which adhesion had not formed bounds. In (he operation for hare-lip, it is by the adhesive inflammation (he wound becomes united, and the deformity removed. Hare lip.