STRANGULATED HERNIA. 69 If the tumour be examined after death, a quantity of clear serum will first be found under the skin. The hernial sac contains a quantity of bloody serum of coffee colour, the intestine is of a chocolate brown, with here and there a black spot, which easily breaks down on being touched with the finger. A coat of coagulated lymph of the same colour of the in- testine may be peeled from its surface, and adhesions of no great strength are to be found extending from the intestine to the sac. At the particular part where the intestine is strangulated by the constricting membrane, it is either ulcerated through, or readily separates under slight pressure. If the inflammation have been very extensive, there is a quantity of air in the surrounding cellu- lar membrane. The inflammation which takes place in strangulated hernia is different from almost every other species. In most cases it is produced by an unusual quantity of blood sent by the arteries of the part, which become enlarged, but still the blood returns freely | to the heart, and the colour of the inflamed part is that of arterial blood: whilst in hernia, the inflammation is caused by a stop being put to the return of the blood through the veins, which pro- duces a great accumulation of this fluid, and a change of its colour from the arterial to the venous hue. This venous appearance which the intestine assumes ought to be distinctly understood, that it may not be mistaken for mortification, which shews itself either in an appearance of discoloured spots dispersed over the bowel, or in a more complete disorganization of texture, arising from en- tire loss of vitality, and a consequent putrefactive process. On dissection, three or four convolutions of intestine are found lying across the abdomen, so enormously distended as to exclude the other viscera from view, and agglutinated slightly together by an effusion of adhesive matter ; the track of adhesion is marked by red lines formed of the inflamed vessels which furnish the secre- tion. These distended convolutions consist of the portion of in- testine immediately above the seat of stricture, and owe their state of extreme distension in part to a collection of faeculent Post mortem appearances. Inflammation peculiar to hernia. Post mortem abdominal appearances.