298 FRACTURES OF THE Ul’PER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. liave recovered*. The bladder is burst or not, in this accident, according to its state of distension or emptiness at the moment of the accident; for, if empty, it escapes injury. FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. Before I enter into a description of the dislocations of other joints, it will be proper to point out the fractures incident to the i upper part of the thigh-bone, as it js essentially necessary that these accidents should not be confounded with dislocations, or with each other; a mistake which has but too frequently happened. Indeed, it must be confessed, that their discriminating marks are sometimes with difficulty detected, and that the different species of fracture are likewise frequently confounded; for three distinct species, very different in their nature and in their result, have been described and classed under the indiscriminate appellation of fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone. Hence has arisen that difference of opinion, which has led to much discussion respecting the processes which nature employs for their cure, and which less hypothetical reasoning, and more attention to the development of such accidents by dissection, would have been the means of pre- venting. Whilst one surgeon asserts that all attempts to cure, them are unavailing, another maintains that they admit of union like fractures of other bones; which latter opinion is only true as far as regards two species of these fractures. I shall now, therefore, proceed to state the results of my observ- ations in living persons who have been the subjects of these acci- dents ; of my examination of the dead body ; and of some experi- ments upon inferior animals, which illustrate this subject. These accidents are more frequent than dislocations of the thigh- * There is at this time (Sept. 1823), a case in Guy’s Hospital, in which the bladder is believed to be ruptured below the reflection of the peritoneum, and between it and the pubes, and the man appears to be recovering by wearing a catheter. Hut in cases where the injury is above the line of reflection of the peritonaeum, the urine escapes into the cavity of the abdomen, and excites great inflammation.