418 DISLOCATIONS OF THE OS HUMERI. Circumstances that render the nature of the ac- cident difficult to be ascertained. Circumstances that render it easy. surgeon generally finds some difficulty in overcoming its fixed position ; it is usual, therefore, as a first question in detecting dis- location, to ask the patient if he can raise his arm to his head, and if there be dislocation, the answer is invariably that he cannot. The power of rotation of the arm is also lost; but the motion of the limb forwards and backwards, as it hangs by the side, is still preserved. There is, however, great difference in respect to the motion of the limb, and this depends upon the age of the patient: in old people the relaxed state of the muscles will not only admit of motion, but allow the surgeon to carry the arm to the upper part of the head. On moving the limb, a slight crepitus will sometimes be felt from inflammatory effusion, and from the escape of synovia, but by the continuance of the motion this soon ceases; the crepitus, however, in these cases, is never so strong as that which a fracture produces. The central axis of the arm is changed, for the central line runs into the axilla. In this accident numbness of the fingers frequently occurs from the pressure of the head of the bone upon a nerve or the nerves of the axillary plexus. These are circumstances of the greatest moment: but it will be seen that the accident can be detected principally by the fall of the shoulder, by the presence of the head of the bone in the axilla, and by the loss of the natural motions of the joint. But a few hours make these appearances much less decisive, from the extra- vasation of blood, and from the excessive swelling which some- times ensue; when, however, the effused blood has become ab- sorbed, and the inflammation has subsided, the marks of the injury become again decisive. At this period it is that surgeons of the metropolis are usually consulted; and if we detect a dislocation which has been overlooked, it is our duty, in candour, to state to the patient, that the difficulty in the detection of the nature of the accident is exceedingly diminished by the cessation of inflamma- tion, and the absence of tumefaction. It may be also observed, that there is great difference in the facility with which the accident is discovered in thin persons of ad- f l i t i I j i li ii ! , * i 1 i Si