Mr. Hagedorn’s machine. 322 FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. then extended as much as possible, and a weight, appended to the foot, was suffered to hang through a hole in the board over the end of the bed, in order to support the extension with regularity and steadiness for several weeks. In a third method, the patient has been placed in bed with both limbs extended to the utmost possible degree, and then the two feet have been bound together by a roller passed from the foot on the injured side under the sound foot, so as to make one limb steadily preserve the extension of the other. This may also be effected by an iron plate affixed to the shoe on the sound foot, with a screw passed through a hole in the plate, and hav- ing a band fixed to the other foot, which may be tightened by turning the screw; and the foot, by this means, be kept con- stantly extended. A fourth mode employed for this purpose has been the applica- tion of Boyer’s splint, with the intention of extending the limb from the pelvis; but this splint, though it answers well for frac- tures of the thigh under ordinary circumstances, has a tendency to prevent union in those fractures which occur at the upper part of the bone, by the pressure of its band upon the inner and upper portion of the thigh. •'11 Mr. Hagedorn has recommended a machine for fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, which is very ingenious in its construction. ' It consists of a long splint to extend from the hip to the foot, and B to be firmly applied, by means of proper straps, to the sound limb; at the bottom of this is fixed a br<ted foot-board, perforated with a “ sufficient number of openings to recede the bands, by means of which both feet are to be securely fixed to it; these bandages are attached to a kind of leathern gaiter, made to lace tight round the ancle, and the upper part of the splint is kept close to the hip by means of a broad bandage carried round the pelvis. By this machine the extension of the limb is tolerably well effected, so long as the patient can be kept still; but a displacement of the bones will invariably be the consequence of every motion whicl