OF THE TREATMENT OF PILES OR HAEMORRHOIDS. 431 Mr. Esdaile came to London from Guernsey or Jersey, in order Case, to have a haemorrhoid removed. Mr. Leman and I attended him, and I removed a single pile by scissors. On the following day he was exceedingly low, his pulse small, so as to be scarcely perceptible. On the next he voided a great quantity of blood from his intestines; and on the day after he died, falling a victim to internal bleeding, from the return of the divided vessel with the prolapsed intestine. The Earl of S applied to me for piles with prolapsus ani, Case. and I removed some of the largest with scissors ; the prolapsus was greatly relieved; and for more than twelve months after he was little troubled, either with haemorrhoids or prolapsus. About two years afterwards he again applied to me, for a return of his com- plaint ; and seeing his age, and having examined the piles, I thought before I operated, I ivould have a consultation, when the operation of excision was again recommended. I removed with the scissors one of the largest, and desired his lordship to keep the j recumbent posture. He laid down upon the bed immediately after the pile was removed. In about ten minutes he said “ I must relieve my bowels,” and he rose from his bed and discharged into the close stool what he thought to be faeces, but which proved to be blood. In twenty minutes he had the same sensation, and evacuated more blood than before, in about the same lapse of time : he again rose, and soon became very faint from the free haemorrhage. I, there- fore, opened the rectum with a speculum, and saw an artery throwing out its blood with freedom, I therefore requested him to force down the intestine as much as he could, and raising the orifice of the bleeding vessel with a tenaculum, secured it in a ligature, and also compressed the artery with a piece of sponge. Hi3 lordship bled no more. On the following day he was low, his pulse very quick, and he had a shivering: on the next he complained of pain in his abdomen ; he had sickness, and tenderness upon pressure, and in four days he died. In the presence of Mr. Wardrop, I opened his body, and found inflammation of the rectum, and disease of the glandulae solitariee of the intestine, they being enlarged and