DISLOCATIONS OF THE OS HUMERI. <126 Efficacy in pro- ducing a ten- dency to syn- cope. Constitutional means of assist- ing reduction. Means of pre- venting the head of the bone slipping from its situation im- mediately after the reduction. to increase the force; and thus he should proceed for a quarter of an hour, at intervals slightly rotating the limb. He should, when he has applied all the extension he thinks right, give the string of the pulley to an assistant, desiring the existing degree of extension to be supported; then, putting his knee in the axilla, and resting his foot upon the chair, he should gently raise and push back the head of the bone towards the glenoid cavity, when the bone will pass into its socket; this takes place generally without the snap which is heard when other means are employed, yet both the sur- geon and the patient are aware of some motion of the head of the bone at the time *. If the pulleys be thus employed the extension will be conducted infinitely more steadily and effectually than when performed by men. In my hospital practice I ordered the patient to be bled, and put into a warm bath at the temperature of 100 to 110; and I give him a grain of tartarized antimony every ten minutes until he becomes faint; then I order him to be removed from the bath, to be wrapped in a blanket, and immediately placed upon a chair for extension, before his muscles have had time to re- cover,— which expedient lessens the necessity of employing very considerable force. Mr. Henry Cline, surgeon to St. Thomas’s Hospital, son to my most excellent master, and who would have made an excellent practical surgeon if the hand, of death had not prematurely deprived the world of his useful talents, was in the habit of directing his patients to support a weight for a length of time before the extension was begun, with a view of fatiguing the muscles, and lessening their power of resistance. In apartments where it is not convenient to place the pulleys in the walls, I have fixed them in the floor, on each side of the patient, who must, under these circumstances, sit upon the floor. When the reduction has been effected, a small cushion should be placed in the axilla, and fixed there by a stellate bandage, to prevent the head of the * One of our pupils, a Mr. Bartlett of Ipswich, has invented a small spring by means of which the strings are attached to the pulley, and which can sud- denly detach them while the knee is in the axilla. This instrument may some- times be useful.