I I'reatment. At the lower part. Interrossial artery. Protected above. How secured. In compound fracture. Case. 1% ON THE TREATMENT OF in I tied the artery; just as I had secured the vessel, the man fainted, and I thought he would have died, hut he ultimately recovered. In wounds of this artery at the upper part of the limb, I should first apply a tourniquet, then place the limb in a bent position, so as to relax the gastrocnemius muscle, which I should raise from its attachment to the tibia, so as to expose the artery and its ac- companying nerve, which I should be careful to exclude, whilst 1 put two ligatures upon the wounded vessel, and afterwards should carefully close the wound and unite by adhesion. At the lower part of the limb the artery is easily found, and secured behind the malleolus internus, it is accompanied by the posterior tibial nerve on its fibular side, which must be avoided. A wound of the interossial artery I have never seen ; but in the I case of such a wound I should cut upon the vessel from the outei I tii lift ii part of the leg, and seek it between the tibia and fibula, close tc the fibula. OF THE ANTERIOR TIBIAL. This vessel is rarely wounded at the upper part of the limb, bu •i frequently at the lower. Lying between the two bones above, i, is much protected. When wounded at the upper part of the limb, an incision mus be made on the outer side of the tibialis anticus to find it: a tena culum, or a pair of forceps, must be employed to raise the wounde artery, to remove it from the interosseous ligament; and then tw ligatures are to be applied upon it. I have seen it wounded in compound fracture. First, in brewer’s servant, a patient of Mr. Birch’s, in St. Thomas’s IIo: pital; the artery being tied, the compound fracture proceedt quite favourably. In a second case the result was singular. A man was broug into Guy’s Hospital, with a compound fracture of the leg. A fe days after his admission, he had a free haemorrhage from the woun which was stopped by the application of the tourniquet; but j