FRACTURES OF THE OS INNOMINATUM. 296 In the evening, the extravasation of blood was somewhat in- creased, and she complained of a pricking sensation in the right thigh and leg, which induced her to loosen the bandage. She had vomited ; her feet were cold ; she had severe pain, and great thirst; her pulse was 90, and small. On the 9th, she complained of a sensation of one side tearing from the other, and, upon examination of the lower extremities, that on - the right side was found shorter than the other ; there was numb- | ness also on that side. Her tongue was furred, but her pain and £ thirst somewhat less ; and she had not the same coldness in her feet as on the night previous. As her bowels had not been relieved since her admission, aperient medicine was given ; and the bladder being incapable of emptying itself, a catheter was employed. The ecchymosis was of great extent, and it was doubtful whether it could be absorbed. A pillow was placed against the right side to support the pelvis, and another was put under the knee to preserve the limb in an easy position. On the morning of the 10th, she complained that the bones of the pelvis moved upon each other, even more than at any former period, and that she had suffered severe pain ; the tongue was now furred, pulse fuller, but her bowels had been relieved, and her water \ passed without assistance. At one o’clock this day, her pulse being fuller, and 120 in a minute, with great heat of skin, I bled her to the amount of ten ounces; but the blood did not exhibit any signs of inflammation, nor did the loss of blood produce any apparent effect in relieving her symptoms. In the evening, her pain and fever had increased ; and as she complained of the tightness of the bandage which still surrounded the pelvis, it was removed. The catheter was then obliged to be employed. Some saline medicine, with opium, was ordered. On the 11th, she stated that she had passed a good night. Pulse 120 and softer ; tongue furred; she was directed to continue her medicines. A stimulating lotion was ordered on the 12th, to pro- duce an absorption of the extravasated blood. Some spots ap- peared of a very dark colour, where the ecchymosis had been most