OF AMPUTATION OF THE PENIS. 417 surrounded by a hard base; it ulcerates slowly and discharges a bloody serum, occasionally with a mixture of pus. At first, slight irritation only attends it; and, after a time, the patient experiences sharp darting pains. As the disease extends, a large portion of the prepuce participates in it; and if it be long suffered to proceed, a gland in one or both groins becomes affected. A phymosis is gradually produced, and a division of the skin must be made, to ascertain the exact nature and extent of the disease; and if the complaint be decidedly cancerous, it will be best to complete the operation at once, by cutting away the whole of the affected prepuce by a circular incision, and then securing the divided vessels. When the bleeding has ceased, a poultice should be applied, with which the wound heals better than by any other dressing. Secondly, When the disease begins upon the glans penis, it Commencing usually makes its appearance in the form of a wart, attended with considerable irritation, and a discharge of serous fluid. The wart ulcerates, and the surrounding parts acquire a great degree of hardness and swelling. Other warts, of a similar nature, are produced, so that the ulcers become numerous: they also extend deeply, and phymosis is occasioned by the surrounding tumefaction. Great impediment arises to the passage of the urine, but at length apertures form from the urethra through the skin of the penis: the patient suffers from irritation of the raw surfaces by the urine, and the disease is accompanied with those lancinating and shooting pains, which usually attend cancerous affections. If the prepuce be slit up, the whole glans is found swollen, and excessively hard; and the penis, from the number of its warty excrescences, and from their eversion, has somewhat the resemblance in its appearance to the cauliflower. The corpus spongiosum and the urethra are diseased nearer to State of the the pubis than the glans, and the surgeon must examine with care o°um*S ^°"^1 the extent of the complaint in that direction. Free haemorrhage from the ulcerated surfaces occasionally occurs, Haemorrhage, the glands in the groin become enlarged, and sometimes several in each groin; and when this happens all hope from surgery has 2 E