476 DISLOCATIONS OF THE FINGERS AND TOES. a very strong ligament joins the first phalanx to the palmar part of the trapezium, at its lower extremity. The metacarpal bone forms a rounded projecting articulatory surface, upon which the hollow of the first phalanx rests, both being surrounded by a cap- sular ligament, and strengthened by two strong lateral ligaments. There are eight muscles inserted into the thumb: two into the metacarpal bone, as the extensor and flexor ossis metacarpi; two into the first phalanx, the flexor brevis pollicis, and the extensor primi internodii; the abductor and adductor pollicis are also inserted into the first phalanx, through the medium of the sesa- moid bones ; the extensor secundi internodii and flexor lonsus pollicis are inserted into the second phalanx. These muscles necessarily offer great resistance to the reduction of dislocations, and therefore those of the thumb are amongst the most difficult to reduce, if any considerable time be allowed to elapse before the attempt be made. Symptoms. Mode of re- duction. Compound luxation. DISLOCATION OF THE METACARFAL BONE FROM THE OS TRAPEZIUM. In the cases which I have seen of this accident, the metacarpal bone has been thrown inwards, between the trapezium and the root of the metacarpal bone supporting the fore finger; it forms a protuberance towards the palm of the hand; the thumb is bent backwards, and cannot be brought towards the little finger. Con- siderable pain, with swelling, is produced by this accident. For the facility of reduction, as the flexor muscles are much stronger than the extensors, it is best to incline the thumb towards the palm of the hand during extension ; and thus the flexors be- come relaxed, and their resistance diminished. The extension must be steadily supported for a considerable time, as no sudden violence will effect the reduction. If the bone cannot be reduced by simple extension, it is best to leave the case to the degree of recovery which nature will in time produce, rather than divide the muscles, or run any risk of injuring the nerves and blood-vessels. This bone is sometimes dislocated by the bursting of a gun, which produces compound luxation ; in these cases it may be