300 FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. Foot turned outwards. catches the neck of the bone, and prevents a greater ascent than half an inch. Mr. Brodie informed me that he dissected a case in which the cervix was obliquely broken, and in which the upper part of the bone prevented the ascent of the lower. On the other hand, when the fracture has happened for a length of time, and the patient has borne upon the injured limb, the ligament becomes ex- tended, and the leg is shortened four inches : of this Mr. Langstaff mentioned to me an instance in a man of the name of Campbell, aged eighty-two, in whom the heel was obliged to be elevated four inches to make the bearing of the limbs equal. I saw the fractured parts in this man, and the shoe he wore, which entirely verified Mr. Langstaff’s statement. The retraction is at first easily removed by drawing down the shortened limb, when it will appear of the same length with the other ; but immediately this extension is abandoned, and the patient exerts himself, the muscles draw it into its former position ; and this appearance may be repeatedly produced by extending the limb. This evidence of the nature of the accident continues until the muscles acquire a fixed contraction, which enables them to resist an extension, unless it be of a powerful kind. Another circumstance which marks the nature of this injury is, the eversion of the foot and knee ; and this state depends upon the numerous and strong external rotatory muscles of the hip- joint, which proceed from the pelvis to be inserted into the thigh- bone, and to which very feeble antagonists are provided: the ob- turatores, the pyriformis, the gemini and quadratus, the pectinalis and triceps, all assist in rolling the thigh-bone outwards ; whilst a part of the glutaeus medius and minimus, ar.d the tensor vaginae femoris, are the principal agents of rotation inwards. It has been denied that this eversion is caused by the muscles, and it has been attributed to the mere weight of the limb ; but any one may satisfy himself that it arises chiefly from the muscles, by feeling the re- sistance which is made to any attempt at rotation of the thigh inwards. This difficulty is also in some measure attributable to the length of the cervix femoris, which remains attached to the