300 FRACTURES OF THF. UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. Union of this fracture. causes by which it is occasioned, that the young surgeon may be upon his guard respecting it, as he might otherwise believe that an injury of such importance could scarcely be the result of a slight accident, and that excessive violence is necessary to break the neck of the thigh-bone : such an opinion is as liable to be in- jurious to his reputation, as the error of confounding this accident with dislocation. Much difference of opinion has existed upon the subject of the union of the fractured neck of the thigh-bone : it has been as- serted, that these fractures unite like those of other parts of the body; but the dissections which I made in early life, and the opportunities I have since had of confirming my observations n have convinced me, that fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone,— those of the patella—olecranon,—and condyles of the os humeri, —and that of the coronoid process of the ulna, generally unite by ligament, and not by bone. This principle I have taught in my lectures for thirty years; and it is a most essential point, as it affects the reputation of the surgeon. I was called to a case of this fracture, in which the medical attendant had been promising, week after week, a union of the fracture, and the restoration of a sound and useful limb. After many weeks, the patient became anxious for further advice: I did all in my power to lessen the erroneous impression which had been made by telling the patient that she might ultimately walk, although with some lameness : and taking the surgeon into another room, asked him upon what grounds he was led to suppose there would be union ? to which he replied, he was not aware but that the fracture of the neck of the thigh- bone would unite like those of other bones of the body. The case, however, proved unfortunate for his character, as the patient did not recover in the usual degree. Young medical men find it so much easier a task to speculate than to observe, that they are too apt to be pleased with some sweeping theory, which saves them the trouble of observing the processes of nature ; and they have afterwards, when they em- bark in their professional practice, not only every thing still