141 TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. being naturally weakened by age, the circulation becomes extremely languid in the feet; hence mortification of the toes ensues. The appearances which the part assumes are these:—at first it is Its characters, red and painful; the person, thinking little of the matter, puts upon the affected part a piece of linen; in a few days the cuticle comes off, and there issues from the surface a sanious discharge; red streaks are now seen passing from different parts of the foot up the leg; and the glands in the groin often undergo considerable inflam- mation and enlargement; all the absorbent vessels of the foot becoming inflamed, produce universal redness of the diseased member. Soon after this the gangrene begins to extend, destroys the whole of the foot, and passes to the upper part of the leg, where it usually stops, as it seldom reaches the thigh; the consti- tution becomes considerably influenced; there is some degree of fever, and the cheeks are of a florid red colour. This gangrene will not commonly destroy life, if attention be Gangrene from ossific paid to the patient. It generally arises from ossification of the deposits, arteries—not of the large vessels, but of the small. These losing their elasticity, combined with a debilitated action of the heart, give rise to the disease of which I am now speaking. The earthy matter is sometimes deposited in great quantities in the large vessels; and here (shotting a preparation) is an example, in which the deposition of earthy substance has rendered the principal arteries of the leg, and even part of the femoral artery, impervious. 1 recollect some time ago a very intelligent surgeon telling me, Case, that he thought a certain nobleman, whom he was at that time attending, had ossification of the arteries of the leg, and that it would some day give rise to gangrene—of which gangrene his Lordship has since died. Where ossification of the blood-vessels exists, very slight causes Case, will give rise to gangrene. A gentleman of the city, in cutting a toe-nail, carried the knife too far, and cut the quick, as it is termed: the wound soon became gangrenous and black, and in the sequel he died.