DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. 371 i escapes by a large wound through the lacerated ligament; in a few hours inflammation begins; and when an additional quantity of blood is first determined to the part, an abundant secretion issues from , this membrane, and is discharged through the wound ; the ligaments participate in the inflammation, as well as the extremities of the bones which enter into the composition of the joint. The inflam- mation of the internal secreting surface of the ligament, in about five days, proceeds to suppuration ; at first but little matter is dis- charged, but it continues increasing until it becomes very abundant; and the lacerated parts of the ligaments and periosteum also se- crete matter. Under this process of suppuration, the cartilages become partially or wholly absorbed, but in general only partially ; for the ulceration of the cartilage is a very slow process, attended with severe constitutional irritation, and often lays the foundation for exfoliation of the extremities of the bones. When the car- tilages are absorbed, granulations arise from the surface of the bones and from the inner side of the ligament; and these inos- culate and fill the cavity between the extremities of the bones. Sometimes we find, after accidents to joints, that the adhesive pro- cess occurs at one part, and that the cartilage is not absorbed; whilst granulations are formed at others, where the cartilage was •emoved by ulcerations; and I have seen, after inflammation in oints, the cartilages remain, and their surfaces adhere. Neither this inosculation of granulations, nor the process of idhesion, leads to permanent anchylosis; for if passive motion >e begun as soon as the parts, from cessation of pain and inflam- nation, will permit, motion will be restored, not always entirely, »ut with very little diminution; and the other joints of the tarsus rill acquire such an extent of motion, as to render the deficiency l the mobility of the ancle-joint but little apparent. The aper- ure in the ligament is filled by granulations ; and with respect to Ihe extremities of the bones, when they are joined by ossific union, lis junction is effected by the deposit of cartilage, and by a secre- on of phosphate of lime, in the usual manner in which bones are '>rmed and repaired. Inflammation and suppuration of the internal ligaments. When passive motion may be applied. B B 2