ON THE OPERATION OF TREPHINING. 186 Description of the operation. Parts on which the tre- phine must not be applied. The operation of trephining- used to be one of the most com- plicated kind, requiring several instruments, the learning of which was in itself quite a study; it is now quite simple, and few instruments only are wanted, which can very easily he put into a small case. Let us go over the instruments formerly used in this operation; but really, gentlemen, they wrere so numerous, I don’t know whether I can count them. They used then a scalpel, rougee, pin, perforator, crown, brush, elevator, lenticular, and a pair of forceps; now you may see (holding a case in his hand) these three instruments will be quite sufficient, a knife, with a double edg-e, in order to scrape off the pericranium, an elevator, and a trephine having a crown, and a pin which will allow of being easily moved. Now, gentlemen, I will tell you in what parts the trephine should not be applied. First, you should never trephine in the line that extends from just above the nose along the top of the head to the tuberosity of the occiput; over the frontal sinuses it is obviously improper; and at the summit of the head you will meet the sagittal suture, where the dura mater adheres with extraordinary firmness, and the longitudinal sinus might also be wounded; and at the posterior part you have the superior portion of the perpendicular spine of the os occipitis; therefore, in this line you ought not to ' trephine. I should mention this particularly to young persons, who very often disregard this rule, thinking they know much better than those who have preceded them ; if, however, they trephine in this part, the more fools they, and I will tell you why: they are running, in operating in this part, an unnecessary risk, by cutting on a long hole covered over by a smooth membrane, when they might do it as well on either side. It would be the folly of presumption to trephine on this line. There are two other parts in which the operation of trephining should not be performed; first, over the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, just above the zygoma; secondly, behind the ears, on the posterior inferior angle of the same bone; and why, no doubt, most of you by this time