•141 FRACTURES NEAR THE SHOULDER-JOINT. hand to be placed on the top of the shoulder, and the point of the fore-finger to be rested on the coracoid process; the arm being then rotated, the crepitus is directly perceived, because the co- racoid process being attached to the glenoid cavity, and being broken off with it, although itself uninjured, the crepitus is com- municated through the medium of that process. The treatment of this fracture consists in attention to two prin- Treatment of •ciples. The first is to carry the head of the os humeri outwards ; lhis accident- and the second, to raise the glenoid cavity and arm. The former is effected by a thick cushion placed in the axilla, which presses the head of the bone and glenoid cavity outwards, and this may be confined by the clavicle-bandage; the latter is produced by plac- ing the arm in a short sling, and then the raised head of the os humeri supports the glenoid cavity and cervix scapulae, and keeps it steadily in its place until union is produced. The time required for recovery from these accidents in the adult is, from ten to twelve weeks; in the very young all the motions of the limb are restored in a shorter period, but it is a long time before the limb recovers its strength. FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE OS HUMERI. The humerus is sometimes broken just below its tubercles, through its cervix. I have seen this accident happen both in old Age. and in young persons, but it rarely occurs in middle age. In the young it happens at the junction of the epiphysis, where the cartilage is situated ; and in the old it arises from the greater soft- ness of this part of the bone. In this fracture the head of the bone Symptoms, remains in its place, but the body of the humerus sinks into the axilla, where its extremity can be felt; and it draws down the deltoid muscle, so as to lessen the roundness of the shoulder. Just as I was writing this account, a child was brought into Guy’s Hospital with this accident, on which I made the following notes. Its age was ten years. The symptoms of the injury were inability of moving the elbow from the side, or of supporting the