ON ULCERATION. 76 Slightly or- ganized parts ulcerate slowly. Case. Use of ulcera- tion. dilation diminished, we find a greater disposition to the ulcerative process than otherwise. Thus, for one ulcer in the arm, we find twenty in the lower extremities ; and you cannot but have observed, in going- round the wards, the great number of sore legs, those opprobia of our hospitals. In those parts which are endued with little vital power, ulceration takes place very readily; while in those to which the quantity of blood sent is very small, ulceration takes place with difficulty. This is the case with tendons. Tendinous parts possess very little blood; very few arteries or absorbent vessels are distributed to them. Hence the process of absorption goes on with great difficulty, and tendons will slough to a great extent rather than become absorbed. This circumstance must influence our practice. In abscess under the fascia, an incision should be made as soon as possible through the covering, to liberate the confined matter. So in abscess of the finger, when the constitution suffers, because the theca will not give way to the process of ulceration, and the nervous system becomes irritated by the pressure of confined matter, an early incision should be made to liberate the matter, and give relief to the constitution. The same practice should be pursued in abscess of the palm of the hand. A gentleman who had formerly received a wound above the zygomatic arch from a ball, called on me, having a swelling on the side of his face. I asked him whether he thought the ball was there ? to which he replied, No. Upon cutting down on it, I found that it was the ball by which he had been wounded some years before. It had travelled beneath the zygoma to the middle of the cheek, on the surface of the parotid gland, from whence I removed it; perhaps it was assisted in its course by the action of the tern- . poral muscles. The ulcerative process is useful to the animal economy, in removing extraneous bodies from the system. Thus, a ball lodged in the body, and a ligature round an artery, are disengaged by the process of ulceration. It is useful also in the exfoliation of portions of bone, in separating parts which would otherwise remain in the