486 OF AMPUTATION WITH A SINGLE FLAP BELOW KNEE. Instruments. Operation. Operation with a double flap. Vessels. Dressing. sawn off at the same point, as when the circular incision is made. A long catling and a saur will be required. The position of the patient, and of the limb, being as when the circular operation is performed, the surgeon feels for the posterior edges of the tibia and fibula, over one of which he places the thumb, and over the other the fore finger of his left hand, the palm resting upon the anterior part of the limb; the extremity of the catling is then introduced immediately below one of these points, and steadily thrust through the calf of the leg, until it protrudes just below the other point, when the blade is carried downwards, so as to form a flap of sufficient size, from the muscles and integument posteriorly ; the next step of the operation is, to divide the integument anteriorly, by making an incision commencing at the place at which the catling was thrust in, passing over the fore part of the leg, and terminating at the spot from which the catling was pushed out: the amputation is completed after this, in the same manner as in the common operation. A double flap is sometimes made from the outer and inner sides of the limb, when the surgeon commences the operation by an incision on the outer part of the leg, reaching from the anterior edge of the tibia to the back of the calf; and having a semicircular form with the convexity toward the malleolus externus, he then dissects back the flap of integument, and afterwards makes a corresponding flap on the inner side, commencing and terminating as the former. The flaps being held back by an assistant, the operation is finished in the usual manner. After either of these amputations, three vessels will have to be secured, viz. the anterior tibial, the posterior tibial, and sometimes the peroneal. It is best in either case to place the straps of adhesive plaster, when dressing the stump, from side to side, rather than from above to below, as, by this, pressure is avoided upon the anterior edge of the tibia, which might otherwise produce much irritation and ulceration.