STRUCTURE OF THE EI.B0W-J01NT. ■41-1 Brachio-cubital. Brachio-vadial. Oblique. Muscles. neck of the radius, by a thin ligament of sufficient length to allow of rotation of the head of the bone; it is also attached to the fore and back part of the coronoid process of the ulna, at its lateral articulatory surface, and thus firmly unites the radius with the ulna, yet allows of the rotation of the former. There are four peculiar ligaments:—First, the brachio-cubital, or internal lateral ligament, which passes from the internal condyle of the os humeri into the coronoid process of the ulna. Secondly, the brachio-radial, or external lateral ligament, which is fixed to the external condyle of the humerus, and to the coro- nary ligament of the radius ; these ligaments give to the joint a strong lateral support. The third ligament is the oblique, which passes from the coro- noid process of the ulna to the radius, just below its tubercle; and it is this ligament which limits the rotation of the radius. A ligament also reaches from the inner side of the coronoid process to the olecranon ; and when this latter process is broken off, it is this ligament, in some instances, which prevents its ex- tensive separation. The muscles of the joint are, first, the brachialis internus, which passes over the anterior part of the condyles and capsular ligament to which it is attached: it is inserted, in an oblique direction, into the coronoid process, and into the body of the ulna just below it. The use of this muscle is to bend the fore-arm, and give support to the elbow-joint, by strengthening the capsular ligament. The next muscle is the triceps, which arises by one of its heads from the inferior costa of the scapula, and by its two others from the os humeri: it descends to the capsular ligament, to the loose portion of which it adheres, and is inserted into the point of the olecranon. This muscle extends the arm, and draws up and supports the capsular ligament. Thirdly, the anconeus, which arises from the back part of the external condyle of the humerus, adheres to the capsular ligament, and is inserted to the extent of an inch and a half into the body of the ulna, directly below the olecranon. The course of this muscle is oblique ; and