AND USE OF TRUSSES. 59 , single truss. To make them sit easy and fit properly, they should I buckle behind, and be made longer or shorter at pleasure. This is done by constructing them in such a manner, that one spring will readily slide upon another. The principle of application, and the degree of pressure required, are to be regulated as the single trusses. As it is an object of importance to the patient to use the bath whilst he is wearing a truss, I have directed the spring to be covered with oil-skin, for the patient should on no account remove < it while he is making so considerable an exertion as that of swimming. A truss when first applied, produces some uncomfort- able feelings for about a week, after which they wear off, unless the pressure is unnecessarily great, in which case the spring must be weakened, as it frequently brings on inflammation of the testicle. On the contrary, if the hernia ever come down whilst the truss is properly applied, a stronger spring must be provided. The best made truss will chafe at first, however well put, but this inconvenience of a few days may be lessened by interposing a i piece of linen between the pad and the skin which generally puts a stop to the uneasy chafing. It is usual for the patient to enquire how long his truss must be worn. This is difficult to be determined. I have known a hernia to be completely cured by wearing a truss only nine months, and instances are not at all uncommon, of the truss being left off at the end of the year without any relapse of the complaint. But I would at all events advise it to be worn at least two years, even by young persons, in whom alone this complaint is curable by this method. As to elderly persons, they must continue to wear it for the remainder of life, for in them there is no probability of such change taking place in the mouth of the sac. I have never known them long omit its use without experiencing some relapse ; during growth, parts will readily accommodate them- selves to pressure, extending or diminishing according to circum- stances ; but in adults and in the old this process is much more How long a truss ought to be worn.