OF THE INCISED WOUND. 173 its different viscera, is not followed by danger if the wound is made to unite. Wounds of the chest, even complicated with injury to the lungs, cease to be dangerous under the adhesive process. Wounds of the brain will unite by adhesion, and the patient re- cover. Union by adhesion is prevented by the following circumstances in incised wounds :— 1. By the introduction of many, and of large sutures. It is therefore necessary to employ the finest threads, and to cut off one of their ends, that they may occupy as little space as possi- ble ; and in from four to six days, they should be removed ; thus they are prevented from producing suppuration and ulcera- tion. 2. By the inflammation being suffered to run too high from want of bleeding generally, or locally, by leeches; or, from not employ- ing cooling evaporating lotions. Spirits of wine and water, or acetate of lead and water, should be applied upon the wound, and around it. Purging is also often required. The adhesive inflammation is but a slow degree of action, and if it be not kept in bounds, suppuration will occur. If poisons be introduced into wounds, it will be wrrong to at- tempt to produce adhesion; thus the bite of a rabid animal should be excised, as well as cauterized afterwards, to prevent the ter- ribly dangerous consequences of such an injury. The use of caustic applications, whether by potash, nitric acid, the actual cautery, &c., will necessarily prevent adhesions. When many absorbent vessels are divided, the lymph poured out by them prevents adhesion, as I have seen in a transverse wound in the groin. When the secretory glands are wounded, their secretion prevents union. I was called to a gentleman who fell upon his face on an earthern plate, which he broke ; his face was dreadfully wounded ; I brought the parts together, and in ten days they appeared to be united, when I allowed him to eat; but the result was a profuse Adhesion pre- vented. By sutures. By too much inflammation. By poisons. By caustics. When an absorbent is divided. Or a secerning gland. Case.