1 ON FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBR/E. 195 table, or any place on which she could rest her head, and support it with her hands under her chin until the agitation produced by the shock had subsided. The child lived twelve months after the accident. On examining the body after death, Mr. Cline found the atlas broken through; there was a transverse fracture of the atlas, but no displacement. When she endeavoured to raise her head, the dentiform process quitted its natural situation, and carried back a portion of the atlas; when her head inclined forward, pressure was produced upon the spinal marrow, as it was likewise when the body was agitated. This is a curious instance of fracture occurring in the cervical vertebrae without displacement. With respect to the treatment of fracture, with displacement of the spine, nothing has hitherto been effectually done in surgery. Mr. Henry Cline was the first person who attempted to give Mr. Cline’s relief in this accident. Being an excellent anatomist, and a most 0Pu<ltlon- able surgeon, he saw no reason why cases of this kind should not be treated as cases of fracture with depression of the skull. Accordingly he cut down upon the arch of the spinal marrow, where the compression was greatest, and, with a small trephine of his own invention, he sawed through the arch of the spinous process, and took off the pressure on the spinal marrow, by raising the depressed portion of the arch. It is well known, that in cases of fracture where the displacement has been slight, union of the bone has been produced. There would be no difficulty in producing this union, supposing the pressure on the spinal marrow to be removed. There is a preparation in Mr. Brookes’s collection, from a case of fracture with depression, where the person lived long enough for the fracture to be united; and in the College of Surgeons there is a preparation presented by Mr. Harold, of Cheshunt, from a case where union of the bone took place after fracture with displacement. There is no danger, therefore, as to the restoration of the arch of the bone, if the pressure on the spinal marrow could be removed; and it was with this view that Mr. Cline sawed through the arch. It is right, 'however, to mention, that in many of these cases the spinal marrow is itself torn through. In some cases of fracture with displacement, o 2