FRACTURES OF THE KNEE. 353 very rare. But still the principle which is to guide the surgeon’s conduct is, to make that ligament as short as possible. If the ligament be of great length, there is a proportionate weakness; for as soon as the accident has happened, the rectus muscle retracts and draws up the superior portion of the patella; and in proportion to the retraction suffered to remain, is the degree of shortening of the muscle, and, consequently, the diminution of its power. Those, therefore, who have had the bones unite when widely separated, if they walk quickly, do it with a halt; and are very liable to fall, and to break the other patella. Let then the muscle be brought as nearly as it can be into its natural length ; and although complete apposition of the bone is very rarely effected, yet the ligamentous union is rendered as short as circumstances will permit, and the patient will recover the power of the limb. The idea which was formerly entertained of the danger of squeezing the callus into a projection in the inner side of the bone, so as to destroy the smoothness of its internal surface, is not at all tenable When called to this accident, the surgeon places the patient in bed upon a mattress, extends the limb upon a well padded splint placed behind the thigh and leg, to which it is tied, and which splint should be hollowed. The patient’s body should be raised as much as he can bear to the sitting posture, to relax the rectus muscle. An evaporating lotion is to be then applied upon the knee consisting of liq. plumbi s. acetat. dilut. $ v. with spir. vini. 1 i.; and no bandage should be at first employed. The body should be slightly raised in bed to relax the rectus muscle, and the heel should be raised to bring up the lower portion of the patella. If, on the succeeding day or two, there be much tension or ecchymosis, leeches should be applied, and the lotion be continued; when, after a few days, the tension has subsided, then, and not till then, should bandages be employed. I have seen the greatest suffering and swelling produced by the early ap- plication of bandages in these cases, even so as to threaten slough- Ligamentous union as short as possible. Treatment. VOL. II. A A