DISLOCATIONS OF THE WRIST-JOINT. 46^ ral cavity of the wrist-joint. This articular cartilage is hollow, both above and below ; and at its lower surface it rests upon the os cuneiforme. A capsular ligament passes from the edge of the articular cavity Capsular liga- of the radius, and from the inter-articular cartilage of the ulna, ment' to the three first bones of the carpus, surrounding a large portion of the scaphoid and lunar bones, and but a small surface of the cuneiform. The second joint at this part is that formed between the radius Ulna-joint, and the ulna. On the inner side of the lower extremity of the radius is situated a hollow articulatory surface, which receives an articular surface on the outer side of the ulna, and both are co- vered by an articular cartilage. At the lower part of this joint is placed the inter-articular cartilage of the ulna, the outer edge of which is joined to the articular cartilage of the radius, and its inner edge is united to the ulna by ligament, which sinks into a cavity formed at the lower extremity of this bone, between the styloid process of the ulna and its rounded extremity. The capsular ligament, which unites the ulna to the radius, is called the sacciform ligament: it covers the articular surfaces of Sacciform liga- the two bones, and is united below to the moveable cartilage of the ment‘ ulna. This joint of the wrist is formed for the purpose of support- ing the rotatory motion of the radius upon the ulna, and of strongly uniting one bone to the other. The wrist is strengthened on each side by peculiar ligaments: one proceeds from the styloid process of the radius, to be fixed to the outer edge of the scaphoid bone, which is the radio-carpal Radio-carpal. ligament; and an ulna-carpal ligament extends from the styloid Ulna-carpal, process of the ulna, to the os cuneiforme, and os orbiculare. DISLOCATIONS OF THE WRIST-JOINT. The dislocations of this joint are of three kinds:— First, dislocation of both bones. Secondly, dislocation of the radius only. Thirdly, dislocation of the ulna.