Ill DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA. be attended with the most serious consequences ; such mistakes, it is true, would hardly occur to a surgeon constantly in the habit of dissection, but to the greater number the distinguishing marks of the two species will not be sufficiently discriminative. It is there- ifore desirable to point out such a mode of operating as would en- |sure the safety of the patient, of whatever kind the hernia may be. Such are the advantages possessed by the method of making the division directly upwards, opposite to the middle of the hernial sac, for in this direction the epigastric artery is certainly avoided. The operation, therefore, is to be performed in the following manner: the surgeon first makes an incision through the integu- ments, along the middle of the tumour, from its upper to its lower part, following the longitudinal direction of the tumour ; so that if it has any inclination inwards towards the umbilicus, the incision should incline the same way. The fascia being exposed, is divided over the surface of the tumour from the abdominal ring down to its lower ex- tremity. The hernial sac which now comes in view, is then opened, from an inch below the ring down to the lower part of the sac, in I the same cautious manner as has been formerly described. The surgeon then passes his finger into the sac, and feels for the stric- ture ; if at the abdominal ring, he introduces the blunt sharp pointed bistoury between the sac and the ring, slitting the latter directly upwards, till the aperture is large enough to allow of the return of the parts; if the stricture is above the ring, he follows it with the knife still in the same direction, and anterior to it, oppo- site the middle of the mouth of the sac, till the dilatation is suf- ficient to allow his finger to slip into the cavity of the abdomen; after which the hernia is to be pushed up, or, if not in a fit state for that purpose, to be treated as mentioned in a former chapter. The parts anterior to the sac above the ring, and divided by the knife, are the tendons of the transverse and internal oblique muscles. If the stricture is within the sac, still the same direction is to be preserved, but the knife must then be passed into the sac itself. In this way the epigastric artery will, with certainty, be avoided ;