FRACTURES NEAR THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 439 part, the surgeon places his hand upon the acromion and rotates the arm, when a crepitus can be distinctly perceived at the point of the shoulder, and along the superior portion of the spine of the scapula. The patient, as soon as the accident has happened, feels as if his arm were falling off, the shoulder dropping with a great sense of weight, and there being but little power to raise the limb. Fracture of the acromion scapulae will unite by bone, but it generally unites by ligamentous substance, in consequence of the difficulty which exists in producing adaptation, and in preserving the limb perfectly at rest during the period required for union. In Treatment, the treatment of this accident, the head of the os humeri is the splint which is employed to keep the acromion in its natural situation ; and with this view the elbow is raised and the arm is fixed; thus the bone will be elevated to the inferior surface of the acromion, and if it be kept steadily in that position, it will support and keep in its place the broken process. The deltoid muscle should be also relaxed, and this is best effected by a cushion placed between the elbow and the side ; for if the elbow be brought close to the side, the broken acromion is further separated. The arm should be raised as much as is possible, and the elbow be carried a little backwards, and then bound to the chest by a roller; in this position it should be kept firmly fixed for three weeks; every thing being done to prevent any motion of the bone. Very little inflammation succeeds this accident, and the disposition to ossific union is very feeble in the separated portions of bone. If a pad be placed in the axilla, the broken portion becomes widely separated from the spine of the scapula, because it throws out the head of the os humeri. FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE SCAPULA. But the accident which is much more liable to be mistaken for Symptoms, dislocation, is the fracture through the narrow part of the cervix scapulae, immediately opposite the notch of the superior costa ; by which the glenoid cavity becomes detached from the scapula,