1G0 OF THE PHRENIC HERNIA. I Symptoms. Hernial sac. Case. From malforma- tion. may take place either at the natural apertures framed for the passage of the oesophagus, vena cava, aorta, See., or through unnatural openings, the consequence of malformation or injury. When this hernia exists, the patient suffers much from in- terrupted respiration and cough, besides experiencing the symp- toms of hernia already enumerated. This hernia has, or has not a proper sac, according to the circumstances of its formation; when protruded through one of the natural apertures, it has a proper sac; when occurring from malformation, it sometimes has a peritoneal covering, and some- times this covering is wanting ; when the consequence of laceration or injury, the hernial sac is always deficient. I have never seen an hernia protruding through any of the natural openings of the diaphragm ; but several cases are related by Morgagni, in which this form of hernia existed. He mentions the case of a young man who was attacked with symptoms of acute cardialgia and constant vomiting, under which he expired. On examining his body after death, the omentum, with part of the colon, the duodenum, some portion of the jejunum and ilium were found in the cavity of the thorax, having passed through the same opening by which the oesophagus descends; the lungs and the heart were compressed into a very small space. The occurrence of phrenic hernia from malformation is not very uncommon. There are two preparations in the Museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital exhibiting this disease. In one instance the opening is of sufficient size to admit nearly the whole of the small intestines through it; in the other specimen the large portion of the stomach was protruded through a much smaller aperture. In both cases the unnatural openings are in the left muscular portion of the diaphragm. Some cases of this form of the disease are also related in the first volume of Medical Observations and Inquiries, by Dr. G. Macauley. When the unnatural aperture is small, the patient suffers fre- i Danger.