275 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. freely, and applied leeches. The injured leg was shorter than the other, and the head of the bone was seated upon the dorsum ilii: the knee and foot were turned inwards. As I visited Tottenham frequently at that time, Mr. Holt asked me to accompany him to see the man, and we agreed on the pro- priety of making a trial at reduction. Mr. Holt and myself, assisted by five strong men exerted our best endeavours for that purpose. Repeatedly fatigued, we were several times obliged to pause and then renew our attempt. At length exhausted, we were about to abandon any further trial, but agreed to make one last effort; when at fifty-two minutes after the commencement of the attempt the bone slipped into its socket. In a case also, which I attended with Mr. Dyson, in Fore-street, Case. I succeeded in reducing the limb without the use of pulleys; but the violence used was so great, and the extension so unequal, (our fatigue being nearly as severe as that of the patient,) that I am confident no person who had used pulleys in dislocation of the hip, would have recourse to any other mode, excepting in dis- location into the foramen ovale. In the following case, sent me by Mr. Oldknow of Nottingham, the extension was made at the ancle; it is consequently worthy of notice. William Sharpe, an athletic young man, in wrestling received a Case, fall; his antagonist falling with and upon him, their legs were so entangled that he cannot say how he came to the ground. He complained of great pain in the hip, and was incapable of rising. About twenty minutes after the accident, I found him lying on his I belly in the field where it had occurred, and the left limb in a trifling state of abduction, shortened, and the knee and foot turned inwards ; the prominency of the trochanter gone, and the head of the bone obscurely felt on the dorsum ilii. He was conveyed home; and in order to reduce the dislocation,—for such I con- sidered it,—I placed the man on his right side diagonally across a four post bedstead. The centre of a large sheet rolled up, was t 2