175 OF LACERATED WOUNDS. but here it is sufficient to say, that the largest arteries of limbs may be torn through without any dangerous bleeding occurring. Lacerated wounds also differ from incised, in their often con- taining extraneous bodies. Those of the scalp are frequently I filled with dirt, from the head ploughing the ground, and the utmost care is required to cleanse them with warm water, and to remove with a sponge all extraneous matter, as I have seen such a wound adhere, and afterwards suppurate in various places, for the discharge of the foreign bodies which the adhesive matter had at first confined. Lacerated wounds are more disposed to inflame, than the in- cised, and they require much more attention to the use of evapo- rating lotions, and of leeches to suppress it. The nervous system frequently suffers severely from lacerated wounds. Spasms of the limbs, and tetanus, I have often seen follow these lacerations on the hand. I was sent for to see a young gentleman at Marlow, who had fallen into a hedge and torn his hand with a thorn bush; he died from tetanus. In the hospitals, from lacerated wounds of the fin- i gers, made by machines for combing wool, I have several times known tetanus produced; the tendons and fascia in these cases had been much exposed and injured. Erysipelas is not an unusual effect of lacerated wounds, more especially if they are inflicted on the scalp, and they therefore require great attention, although they at first appear of trifling importance. The treatment of these wounds is the same as that which has been described for incised wounds; but more care is required in the use of cooling lotions, and the application of leeches, in quiet, and in the exhibition of opium under the first appearance of spasm- odic symptoms. Patients with lacerated wounds, should not be much reduced by depletion, as it disposes to tetanic symptoms. Differ from incised. More disposed to inflame. Affect the nerv- ous system. Case. Produce erysipelas. Treatment.