TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. 136 When Gan- grene has com- menced. Ammonia, &c. from the diminution of nervous power, and it will be proper to restore it to a healthy state by stimulants of the most gentle kind. For this purpose, the best application is the camphorated spirit of wine, accompanied with gentle friction. If you are called to a patient whose feet are benumbed by the application of cold, you must sit by his bedside, pour the camphorated spirit into your hand, and rub it on his feet with the utmost possible gentleness, so that the part may not be irritated by violent friction. When the first effects of cold are removed, it will be proper to apply poultices to the part. The poultices must be cold, for warm applications to the part are to be carefully avoided. One of the most valuable of our nobility died of gangrene from an imprudence in this respect. He was out shooting in December last, and his feet having become benumbed, he put them into warm water as soon as he returned home. The consequence was, that his toe became gangrenous ; the gangrene soon extended to the other foot, and he died from its effects. When parts are frost-bitten in colder climates, you are aware that the common practice is to restore the circulation by rubbing them with snow. So much for the prevention of gangrene. But as soon as gangrene has commenced, it will be necessary to apply a gentle stimulus to the parts, with a view of supporting the action of the surrounding parts, which are threatened with the destruction of life. The application which I have found to be most uniformly successful in such cases, is the poultice of stale beer grounds. The stale beer grounds, which may be obtained in any public-house, should be mixed with linseed meal, and a poultice formed of them, which will produce a gentle and beneficial stimulus to the part, and prevent the gangrene from spreading to the surrounding skin. Spirituous fomentations are also of use for the same purpose. At the same time that this local treatment is employed, means must be taken to support the constitution, which is debilitated by excessive action. 1 lie best mode of supporting the constitution is by the exhibition of ammonia mixed with opium. From seven to ten grains of the