347 OF THE SIMPLE CHRONIC TUMOUR OF THE BREAST. After the operation, as in scirrhus, the constitution will require an alterative treatment, to prevent the disposition to returning disease. OF THE SIMPLE CHRONIC TUMOUR OF THE BREAST. This disease is not of a malignant nature, nor does it produce any dangerous consequences. It attacks the young and the apparently ■ healthy, seldom beginning after the age of thirty years; and usually j appearing from the age of puberty to that period. The character of this swelling is as follows:—it is very super- Appearance of i ficial, growing rather upon the surface of the breast than in its i interior. At first it appears like one of the mammary lobes being enlarged; and then, as if several were combined in one swelling. As it increases, it becomes in some degree lost in the substance of the breast. It has not the hardness of the scirrhous tubercle, and it is not accompanied with the loss of health of the fungoid disease. It is an extremely moveable swelling. It is generally unaccom- panied with pain, either in the part, or shoulder, or arm, althoug-h I have known exceptions to this rule. It grows very slowly and gradually, and does not generally acquire a great magnitude. I removed one which had existed five years, which was not larger than a walnut; and I have seen one which, after fifteen years, still remained but a small swelling. In a patient sent me to Guy’s Hospital, by Mr. Lukyn, of Sometimes ac- quires a large reversham, the swelling had grown to a great magnitude, but still size, felt as if composed of a simple enlargement of the different lobes of the mammary gland. I have also seen one case, in Guy’s Hospital, in which the disease became excessively large, and it ulcerated and destroyed life. They will be sometimes painful at the period of menstruation : there is nothing malignant in their nature, and I have never known them change their action into the scirrhous or fungous disease, although, under changes of the constitution, such an event would be possible. The absorbent glands in the axilla are unaffected.