OF PUNCTURED ARTERIES. 188 Case. Case. Treatment. If aneurism forms. Operation. him, and inviting him into his shop, he put a lancet into the swelling, and finding blood impetuously escape, he as quickly escaped from his shop. The patient finding himself bleeding, fortunately put his hand upon the wound, and called for assistance. A bandage was bound tightly round his arm, and he went to St. Thomas’s Hospital, where Mr. Cline operated upon him, when the radial artery, in consequence of a high division, was found to be the wounded vessel. One of the apprentices at Guy’s Hospital had the misfortune to wound the brachial artery in bleeding ; he immediately perceived the nature of the mischief, but before he could arrest the bleeding, thirty-seven ounces of blood were lost. He bound up the arm extremely tight, and when the bandage was removed a few days after, an aneurismal swelling appeared at the fore part of the elbow, for which an operation was performed, of tying the artery at the part, an operation which was attended with great difficulty, and the patient died. I once assisted Mr. Chandler in performing the operation for brachial aneurism, produced by bleeding; the sac was opened, and the orifices above and below were secured by ligatures, but still there was a free haemorrhage, from an anastomosing vessel, which it was necessary to secure. The treatment of this injury consists in the immediate binding up of the wound, and applying a tourniquet to the middle of the arm, which should press upon the artery, and upon the opposite side of the arm only, leaving the circulation by anastomosis as free as possible. If an aneurism still follows this accident, the tourniquet is to be continued, as described in the lecture on aneurism. Should the tumour still continue to increase after this has been fully tried, it will be proper to make an incision upon the brachial artery, about midway between the elbow and shoulder joints, and place a ligature upon it, but upon no account cut down upon the wounded vessel at the elbow.