267 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. give the muscles time to become fatigued; he then draws again; and when the patient suffers much, again rests, until the muscles yield. Thus he gradually proceeds until he finds the head of the bone approach the acetabulum. When it reaches the lip of that cavity, he gives the pulley to an assistant, and desires him to pre- serve the same state of extension, and the surgeon then rotates the knee and foot gently, but not with a violence to excite opposition in the muscles, and in this act the bone slips into its place. In general, it does not return with a snap into the socket when the pulleys are employed, because the muscles are so much relaxed, that they retain not sufficient tone to act with violence: and the surgeon ascertains the reduction only by loosening the bandages, and comparing the length of the limbs. It often happens that the bandages get loose before the extension s completed, an accident which should be carefully prevented by laving them well secured at first; but if they require to be ■enewed, this should be expeditiously performed, to prevent the nuscles having time to recover their tone. It is sometimes necessary for the operator to lift the bone, by ilacing his arm under it near the joint, when there is difficulty in wringing over the lip of the acetabulum; or a napkin may be passed under the bone, as near the head as possible, and by its neans an assistant may raise it. After the reduction, in conse- juence of the relaxed state of the muscles, great care is required n removing the patient to his bed. I have seen reduction of the bone effected, even where the ex- ension was not made in the best possible direction : for when the nuscles have not had time to settle, they will allow the bone to )e restored into its socket, even when extension is made in a lirection not the most favourable for its reduction. I cannot by my means subscribe to the method adopted by the late Mr. Hey, dthough no person ever felt greater respect for his talents, more 1 lighly appreciated his acquirements, or is more disposed to pur- sue the study of the profession in the mode which he so successf ully idopted. The direction which he gave to a limb, in the case