41 LOCAL TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. hours: now as the ice dissolved, the water formed by it ran down upon the man’s groin, and the inner side of his thigh, and the parts whereon this stream passed, became completely frozen; proper applications restored them to life; but inflammation and slight mortification succeeded : the hernia, however, was reduced, and the man eventually did well. In similar cases, I advise you to apply ice in a bladder; and take care that you do not continue it too long. It frequently happens in this country, during severe winters, that Snow applied the lobes of the ears and tips of the noses of those who are much t0 r°Zen parts' exposed to the weather will become frozen: they may be restored to life by rubbing them with snow. One of the’best lotions that can be applied to an inflamed part is Goulard water, composed of one ounce of rectified spirits of wine, and five ounces of water. Goulard water is also much extolled for reducing inflamma- tion, and lessening pain ; but when too long applied, or too strong, it has been known to destroy nervous irritability in too great a degree. Mr. Foster, of Guy’s, saw a person in whom the upper eye-lid became completely paralysed from its improper application. In applying the spirit-of-wine lotion, let your cloths be thin, so that the spirit may combine with the heat of the part, and carry it off in the form of vapourin other words evaporation is produced, and it is in that way its good effects are produced. I do not recommend the application of ice to parts while in a state Ice. of inflammation; it irritates, and is apt to produce gangrene. Some years since, when I was making a series of physiological Experiment, experiments, I wished to ascertain what effects would be produced upon the pulse by the sudden application of severe cold, for which purpose I plunged my arm to the shoulder into snow; at the time of the immersion my pulse was 80, but immediately rose to 120; this result was contrary to all that I had ever been taught on the subject—the pulse sometimes did not rise so high as 120, not being more than 110, and was hard and wiry. The immersion in so great a degree of cold caused great pain, and consequently was a source of irritation. This experiment led me into an examination of the