DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. 404 Cause. Reduction. Relaxation of ligaments. Dislocations rare. Articulation. Bones. the mouth, have still remained. This state of the jaw happens from extreme relaxation. The patient finds himself suddenly incapable of entirely closing the mouth; some pain is felt, and the mouth is least closed on that side on which the pain is felt. Force for removing these appearances must be applied directly downwards, so as to separate the jaw from the temporal bone, and to give an opportunity for the cartilage to replace itself upon the rounded extremity of the condyloid process. In extreme degrees of relaxation, a snapping is felt in the maxillary articulation just before the ear, with some pain, arising from the sudden relapse of the jaw into its socket, which the re- laxation of the ligament had permitted it to quit, and to advance upon the zygomatic tubercle. Young women are generally subject to this sensation, and the means which I have found most frequently and quickly tending to insure their recovery, have been ammonia and steel as medicine; with the shower-bath, and the application of a blister before the ear, when the complaint has continued for a length of time. DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. As the clavicle is the only medium by which the arm is articu- lated with the bones of the chest, it might be expected that its dis- location would be extremely frequent; but this bone is so peculiarly and strongly articulated, both with the sternum and scapula, as to render its dislocation comparatively rare. In other articulations we find a capsular ligament proceeding from the edges of the articulating surfaces and peculiar ligaments, to give strength to the junction of the bones; but in the articulation of the clavicle, like that of the lower jaw and knee, we meet with an inter-articular cartilage, composing a part of the articulating apparatus. JUNCTION OF THE STERNAL EXTREMITY OF THE CLAVICLE WITH THE STERNUM. The articulating surfaces, both of the sternum and clavicle, are i i o d c; to Sll nr It to air of lor am to on cla llie ; '(lie of tliii or inti t!n 1 h: of *!ii