382 D/S LOCATIONS OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. Use of nitric acid in slough- ing wounds. Case. subacetatis dilutus, which relieved the pain ; thirty drops of lau- danum were given, and he remained easy. On the following day sixteen ounces of blood were taken from him, and five grains of calomel were given. On the 12th, the dressings were removed; the wound looked well. On the 17th, a suppuration had com- menced ; and the discharge having rather a foetid smell, the nitric acid lotion was applied*. September 2nd, the matter gravitating to the outer side of the leg, an opening was made, by which it was discharged, and adhesive plaster applied to the original wound, which was healing fast; the discharge gradually diminished ; and on the 21st of September, six weeks from the accident, both wounds were quite healed. He has not yet left his bed. There is : motion at the ancle: the toe turns out but very little, and does not point downwards. He wears splints, and the strength of the limb is daily increasing. When the swelling of the left ancle diminish- ed, a fracture of the external malleolus was also there dis- covered. This man escaped from the hospital on the 24th of October, was retaken two months afterwards, and conveyed to the Borough Compter. He has free motion of the right ancle, and suffers more from the injury to the left. DISLOCATION OF THE ANCLE FORWARDS. My dear Sir:—I have much pleasure in sending you an account of the case I mentioned to you last night, together with a sketch by which I have endeavoured to shew the position of the limb at the time when I saw the patient. James Price, aged thirty-nine, a very robust man, was coming to town on Monday, the 1st of March, in a light cart drawn by one horse. In passing through Clapham the horse ran away, and * The nitric acid lotion, during the sloughing process, is the best application with which I am acquainted. I order it in the proportion of fifty drops of the acid to a quart of distilled water, apply it by linen covered with oiled silk.