182 ON WOUNDS OF THE BRAIN. In the tunica arachnoides. In the sub- stance of the brain. Case of a child wounded by a cock. longitudinal sinus, as you here see it (exhibiting the preparation). This is the only example of the kind which I have witnessed. The next part in which matter is situated is between the tunica arachnoides and pia mater, or between the pia mater and brain itself. This last is of most common occurrence, and in this case the matter is diffused over the hemispheres of the brain, in the same manner as I mentioned to you the other evening, that blood is when extravasated on that organ. When the matter is between the pia mater and brain, it will be of no use to operate, as very little will be discharged, there being no communication between one part and another; for the matter is contained within distinct cells, between the vessels which come from the pia mater to the brain. The next situation in which matter is found is in the substance of the brain itself. Here are specimens (pointing to some on the table), in one of which matter was lodged in the anterior lobe of the cerebrum, the other in the cerebellum; in fact, it is lodged in various parts, and the only circumstance very curious in this complaint is, that you would not suppose, from the symptoms, that matter was forming; they are those of compression rather than irritation. If the membranes of the brain be attacked with violent inflammation, symptoms of irritation will be present; but if the brain itself, they will be those of compression ; and the circumstance which surprises a person who examines the brain of an individual in which matter has been formed is, that so little constitutional irritation existed during its formation: it is in inflammation of the membranes, and not of the brain itself, in which great irritation is present. Here is a curious specimen (pointing to one before him), taken from a child that I had under my care, and on whom I performed the operation of trephining; I will give you the history of the case:— A young child was playing in a yard where there were some fowls, when it received a wound on the head from the beak of a cock. The mother hearing the child shriek, ran to the spot, and found that there was a small wound of the scalp, but thinking that there was