OF THE REDUCIBLE INGUINAL HERNIA, 56 Trusses. quence of which will be fatal unless early and well directed skill be employed. To prevent this accident a constant pressure should be applied at the part where the hernia opens into the abdomen, to close the mouth of the sac, and thus oppose an effectual resistance to the protrusion of its contents. For this purpose, bandages of different kinds and elastic trusses have been invented; but, generally, the instrument that can be most safely relied on, is a truss of steel; other bandages often afford only a false security, more dangerous even than a total omission of this kind of support, since they encourage the patient to take violent exercise without apprehension of the probable con- sequences. An elastic steel truss, if properly made and well ap- plied, ensures the security of the patient during any degree of moderate exercise, and is no liinderance to any of the common oc- cupations of life. The pad of a steel truss is composed of a supporting piece of iron, and stuffed so as to take a form on the one hand not too conical, and on the other not too flat. The former occasions pain by an unnecessary degree of pressure, while the latter does not effect the purpose of preventing protrusion. The pad is rivetted on a long flat piece of steel tempered to a great degree of elasti- city, and curved to the shape of the lower part of the body, which it embraces like a belt. The length of this steel should be suffi- cient to pass from the hernia round the region of the groin to about an inch beyond the spine behind, forming somewhat more than a semicircle, but compressed. Both the pad and truss are quilted with leather. A strap of leather proceeds from the hinder end of the truss, which passes round the opposite side of the body, completing the circular belt by fastening upon the pad. An understrap is sometimes added, which passes down from the back part of the truss between the patient’s thighs, and is brought up to the fore part of the pad, to which it is fastened by a stud; this prevents the truss slipping upwards. However, if the pelvis is well formed, that is, standing outwards, or the abdomen is large,