334 FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. the trochanter major. The upper half of the femur being removed from the body, I discovered the reason why the fracture had eluded our search. The fracture had detached the trochanter from the body and neck of the bone, but without tearing through the tendons attach- ed to the outer side of the process. The tendons are those of the two smaller glutei, and the commencement of that of the vastus externus ; had they been torn, the broken portion of bone would have been draw n upwards by the action of the twro former muscles, and in that case, the injury would readily have been recognized; but they so effectually prevented all movement of the fractured portion, that, when dissected from the body, not the least motion could be produced except in one direction. It was found that this motion resembled that which would be produced by a hinge; the tendons acting the part of a broad hinge, and allowing the portion to be moved only upwards and downwards. It is evident that such motion could not have been produced by any direction given to the limb ; hence it is also manifest, that the fracture could not have been detected during the life of the patient. FRACTURES BELOW THE TROCHANTER. The thigh-bone is sometimes broken just below the trochanter major and minor ; it is a difficult accident to manage, and miser- able distortion is the consequence if it be ill-treated. The end of the broken bone is drawn forwards and upwards, so as to form nearly a right angle with the body, and the cause of this position is evidently the contraction of the iliacus internus and psoas mus- cles, assisted by the pectinalis, and perhaps by the first head of the triceps. A better idea of the effect of this accident may be obtained by a view of the Plate in my larger work, where the bone will be ob- served to be united, not only with extreme shortening, but with a hideous projection forwards. If pressure be made upon the projecting bone in the treatment of this case, it only adds to the patient’s suf- j ferings, and to the degree of irritation of the limb, without pre- serving the bone in its proper situation. It will be seen that this i