TREATMENT OF STRANGULATED HERNIA. 78 any of the voluntary muscles of the body. In this state the hernia will often return into the abdomen with a very slight pressure, though it had previously resisted a considerable degree of force. I have felt a hernia, which had been previously tense, under the operation of the tobacco clyster become perfectly soft and relaxed, which state was produced, not by any partial return of its con- tents, as no pressure had been used, but simply by the temporary removal of the force of circulation from the protruded intestine. In some cases I have observed that , the warm bath has rendered the tumour more tense, and increased its volume; probably by in- creasing the heart’s action, determining a larger quantity of arterial blood to the intestine than the compressed veins were able to return. It is from the opposite effect that the benefit of the tobacco enema is derived; it so depresses the force of the heart, that the pulse at the wrist can scarcely be felt; and this temporary suspension of the force of circulation relieves the distended vessels of the gut, and, by diminishing its bulk, assists in its reduction. Application of The other powerful method of assisting the reduction of hernia cold. . • is the application of cold. To produce it, brandy and vinegar, vinegar and sal ammoniac, or simply dashing cold water upon the naked abdomen and tumour, have all been employed. The most simple and effectual, however, where it can be procured, is to Ice. apply ice. For this purpose it should be broken in small pieces, and put into a small bladder so as to half fill it, which, being tied up and wiped dry, is to be laid upon the hernia, and to cover the inflamed and swollen parts. Its effect is almost immediately to diminish the pain, to contract the skin over the tumour, and by the pressure thus produced to compel the return of the protruded contents. Another great advantage of this remedy is, that it arrests for a length of time the progress of the symptoms, so that it may be continued for several hours upon the part without incurring the risk of losing too much time. If after a trial of about four hours the symptoms become mitigated, and the tumour lessens, this remedy may be persevered in some time longer, but if they con-