179 ON WOUNDS OF THE BRAIN. When admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital, there was a consi- derable loss of bone on the os frontis, over the right eye, where the pulsation of the brain was evident. A fungus swelling, in a sloughing state, occupied the middle of the wound, which was surrounded with red fleshy granulations; and when the tumour was pressed on, he complained of severe head-ache, which ceased on removing the pressure. On the day following his admission, I was desired to see him; and I immediately cut away the projecting part of the fungus, and 'recommended pressure to be made on the part, by means of a bandage, applying to the wound a pledget of lint, wetted with lime-water. No other treatment was found necessary; by these means the fungus was kept down, the ulcer gradually contracted, and on the 9th of August it was nearly skinned over, without one bad symptom occurring during the cure. He always complained of head-ache when the bandage was applied tight. He took no medicine while in the hospital. Mr. Henry, jun. of Keswick, was struck on the forehead by a Case, portion of a small brass cannon, which burst while he was firing it. He was immediately afterwards found in a senseless state, but was in a few minutes able to rise and speak. Mr. Edmondstone, surgeon, was called in to see him, and arrived ten minutes after the accident. He found a wound over the left eyebrow, which he enlarged, and then discovered a comminuted fracture of the skull ; the fractured portions of bone were loose and detached; the dura mater was lacerated, so as to allow of the escape of about a tea- spoonful of the substance of the brain. The loose portions of the bone were removed, and the wound dressed. Soon after the operation he was sick ; and his pulse being hard, he was bled twice in the following night. On the next day, some more brain, in small quantities, was removed with the dressing. A fortnight after the accident, a fungus arose from the brain, which was treated by the pressure of lint dipped in lime-water, which considerably repressed its growth. Whilst pursuing the above plan of treat- ment, he one day complained of severe pain in his neck, for which he was bled freely; when, in a few hours after, the fungus suddenly n 2