252 DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. Partial disloca- tions. Instance. Cause. Resistance of muscles. Dislocations are not always complete, since bones are sometimes but partially thrown from the articulatory surface on which they rested; this species of dislocation now and then occurs at the ancle-joint. An ancle which was dissected at Guy’s Hospital by Mr. Tyrrell, and afterwards given to the Museum at St. Thomas’s was found partially dislocated; the end of the tibia still rested in part upon the astragalus, but a larger portion of its surface rested on the os naviculare ; and the tibia, altered by this change of place, had formed two new articulatory surfaces, with their faces turned in opposite directions towards the two tarsal bones. The dis- location had not been reduced. The knee-joint is, I believe, rarely dislocated laterally in any other way; for its extensive articular surfaces almost preclude the possibility of complete dis- placement. The os humeri sometimes rests upon the edge of the glenoid cavity, and readily returns into its socket; and the elbow- joint is dislocated partially, both in relation to the ulna and the radius. The lower jaw is also sometimes partially dislocated, but in a different manner; one of the joints being luxated, and the other remaining in its place. Dislocations are generally occasioned by violence, and the dis- placing force usually takes effect whilst the bone is in an oblique direction to its socket; but the muscles must necessarily have been in a great degree unprepared for resistance, otherwise the greatest force would hardly have produced the effect: when they are un- prepared, the injury will often ensue from very slight accidents. A fall in walking will sometimes dislocate the hip-joint, when the muscles have been prepared for a different exertion. While dwelling on this subject in my lectures, I have usually adverted to the execution of Damien, as illustrative of this position. Damien was executed for the attempt to murder Lewis XV. Four young horses were attached to his legs and arms, and were forced to make repeated efforts to tear his limbs from his body, but could not effect this purpose; and after fifty minutes, the exe- cutioners were obliged to cut the muscles and ligaments to effect