DISLOCATION OF THE TARSAL BONES. 396 Mr. James, of Croydon, whom I met there, requested me to see a gentleman who had a dislocation of the foot, which had happened several w'eeks before, but had not proceeded to his satisfaction. Upon examination, I found the astragalus dislocated outwards, and the tibia broken obliquely at the inner malleolus. Every attempt to reduce it was made which Mr. James, who is an ex- tremely well-informed man, could adopt; five persons kept up a continued extension when the accident first happened, but with- out effect; the patient was then taken home, and several persons were employed in extending the foot, and it wras thought, after a time, with some success ; but the reduction could not, by all their efforts, be rendered complete, as the astragalus still remained pro- jecting upon the upper and outer part of the foot. The extension could not be carried further ; the integuments sloughed from that which had been already made; and the wound was a long time in healing. The limb now deviates much from its natural shape ; the toes are turned inwards, and pointed downwards; there is some little motion at the ancle, and only a slight degree of it be- tween the projecting and raised astragalus and the other bones of the tarsus. This accident, then, is of a most serious nature : for the gentle- man in question had placed himself under the care of a most intel- ligent and persevering surgeon, and yet the attempts made at reduction were not successful, merely from the nature of the acci- dent, and not from any fault in the means employed. In these cases the use of pulleys will be required, and the action of the muscles should be lessened by tartarized antimony. COMPOUND DISLOCATION OF T1IF. ASTRAGALUS. In the first case of this accident winch I had an opportunity of witnessing, the astragalus was thrown inwards and forwards upon the os naviculare ; and when I afterwards saw the limb upon the table of the dissecting-room, it having been removed by amputation, I exclaimed, surely that limb might have been saved.