STRUCTURE OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 413 however, the accident was determined to be, I do not recollect; but the following treatment was adopted. Cushions were put in the axillae, and a stellate bandage applied, with another just above the elbow to bind it to the side, and the arm was put in a sling, which seemed to keep the parts in their proper position ; but the next morning the bandages were loose. Supposing that 'this effect was produced by restlessness, they were again applied, but continued slipping offj day after day, until a week from his ad- mission, when a long splint, placed across the shoulders, was bound to them by rollers, and the parts resumed their natural situation ; but after a short time, they were also obliged to be removed on account of the extreme irritability of the patient. He was then ordered to lie in bed upon his back without any bandage, but the parts became again displaced. No other attempt at relief was made, and he died on the 7th of December following, of some 1 pulmonary disease, after an illness of three weeks. On examination of his body, the clavicle was found dislocated at its scapular extremity, and projected considerably over the spine of that bone. The acromion process, just where the clavicle is united with it, was broken off. The splint across the shoulders seemed likely to have succeeded in keeping the parts in apposition, if the man’s illness and impa- tience would have permitted him to continue to wear it. STRUCTURE OF THE SHOULDER- JOINT. The shoulder-joint is composed of two portions of bone; the Shoulder-joint, glenoid cavity of the scapula, and the head of the os humeri. The glenoid cavity is similar in form to a longitudinal section Glenoid cavity, of an egg, with its larger extremity downwards and outwards, and its smaller upwards and inwards ; the cavity is so superficial, that the head of the humerus rather rests upon its surface than is received into its hollow; it is, however, slightly concave, and is covered by an articular cartilage, which is somewhat extended beyond the edge of the bony cavity. The coracoid process of the scapula is situated at the upper Coracoid pro- r cess.