248 DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. Case. Dislocation from ulceration. I SC ir ik be placed under the orders of one of the mates when the captain was on shore; and for some trifling offence was punished in the following manner :—His foot was placed upon a small pro- jection on the deck, and his arm was lashed tightly towards the yard of the ship, and thus kept extended for an hour. When he returned to England, he had the power of readily throwing that arm from its socket merely by raising it towards his head, but a very slight extension reduced it; the muscles were also wasted, as in a case of paralysis. I have also seen in a dislocation of the thumb, the first phalanx capable of being thrown from the os metacarpi pollicis, merely by the action of the muscles, from a relaxed state of the liga- ment. Of the influence of paralysis, the following case is an example. I was desired to see a young gentleman, who had one of those paralytic affections in his right side, which frequently arise Isle; during dentition. The muscles of the shoulder were wasted; m and he had the power of throwing his os humeri over the pos- W terior edge of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, from whence it was easily to be reduced. In these cases, particularly in the latter, no laceration of the ligaments could have occurred; and they shew the influence of the muscles in preventing dislocation from violence, and in impeding its reduction. Dislocations arise from ulceration, by which the ligaments are detached, and the bones become altered in their form. We frequently find this state of parts in the hip-joint; the ligaments ulcerated, the edge of the acetabulum absorbed, the head of the thigh-bone changed both in its magnitude and figure, escaping from the acetabulum upon the ilium, and there forming for itself a new socket. There is in the anatomical collection at St. Thomas’s Hospital, a preparation of the knee dislocated by ulceration, anchylosed at right angles with the femur, and the tibia turned directly forwards. A boy, in Guy’s Hospital, had his knee dislocated by ulceration, with the tibia thrown on the inner “8 - ■ :;i