30 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. Illustration. Constitutional or Local. will soon perceive in the vicinity of the irritated part considerable agitation, and presently a red particle of blood will make its appear- ance in a vessel that had previously been the receptacle of trans- parent serum only—each pulsation pushing it on farther and farther. This red particle distends the vessel, and is succeeded by others passing freely into the vein. All the vessels of the part then take on similar actions; and thus you create under your eye, speaking figuratively, meandering rivulets of blood. The dilatation of the vessels in inflammation is not, however, confined to the part itself, but is also observable in the larger arteries leading to the scene of irritation: thus, in persons who have died, having inflammation in a foot, the femoral artery on the affected side has been found larger than the opposite. I before explained the manner in which nature throws a quantity of blood to a part for the purpose of repairing an injury, or for the removal of irritation; I will give another illus- tration of this, which, if you have not seen, most probably all of you have felt. It is this: when any offending matter gets under the eyelids it produces irritation;—nature immediately sends a quantity of blood to the lachrymal gland—this blood occasions a secretion* of tears, and these are directed in streams over the eye, for the purpose of washing off the offending substance. [Sir Astley then stated, that he would show a beautiful 'specimen of fungus hsematodes. The tumour was of very large size, and, when cut open, exhibited the usual characteristics of this malignant disease; viz., cysts filled by a transparent fluid; extravasated blood in clots; some of its parts were whitish, while others were verv dark, and the whole was of a spongy, elastic texture.] LECTURE III. TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. This is either constitutional, local, or both combined. When any important organ is injured or its functions disturbed, in consequence