276 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. Case. passed in front and behind the body, and fastened to the upper bed-post as low as possible. The centre of a napkin, rolled in like manner, was then applied upon the dorsum ilii, between its crista and the dislocated bone; and each extremity being brought under the sheet, forwards and backwards, was reflected over it and tied in the centre, by which means I hoped to keep the pelvis secure. The counter extending force was applied above the ancle, (it appearing to me to interfere less with the muscles upon the thigh,) first by rolling round a wetted towel, and then placing upon this the end of a long or jack-towel. Three men were now di- rected to pull gradually and steadily: and when I perceived that the head of the femur was brought down to the edge of the ace- tabulum, I raised it a little with my clasped hands placed under the upper part of the thigh, and immediately the head of the bone entered the cotyloid cavity with a smart snapping noise. The man had considerable pain about the hip and knee for some time, but is now quite well. I have met with many instances of these accidents conjoined with another injury, which at first sight presented a complication sufficiently embarrassing, but without being, in reality, productive of much additional difficulty. I allude to cases in which, with dislocation of one hip, there has been a fracture of the bone of the n opposite thigh. In such circumstances, I have fixed some splints temporarily, but very firmly upon the broken limb, and then, turn- ing the patient on that side, have proceeded to the reduction of the dislocated hip in the usual way. After this has been accomplished, I have taken the splints from the broken limb, and bound it up again in the customary manner; and every case which I have seen, has done well, without any additional inconvenience. DISLOCATION OF THE THIGH UFON THE DOR$UM ILII, WITH FRACTURE OF THE THIGH-BONE. Abraham Harman, aged thirteen years, a patient under Mr. Forster in Guy’s Hospital, gave the following account of his acci-