84 ACUTE AXD CHRONIC ABSCESS. Prevention of scars. tional, to be used in chronic abscesses : but it remains now to be considered how to treat chronic abscesses, when it becomes neces- sary to open them: I shall now proceed to tell you. Suppose you are called to a case where there is a collection of matter under the fascia lata of the thigh (the largest in the body), extending, as it often does, from just above the knee to the trochanter major? what would you do ? Open it certainly ; make an incision half an inch in length, and squeeze out all the matter you can. Having done this, apply a roller, making the turns all over the thigh, with the exception of the opening; the result of this is, in many instances, that adhesive inflammation is excited, and thus the sides of the cavities are often readily united ; always take care, in the applica- tion of the pressure, to leave the mouth of the wound uncovered. The same directions are to be attended to in collections of matter, when met with under the tendinous expansion which covers the muscles of the leg and fore-arm; the object is to endeavour to produce the adhesive inflammation, just as in the case of abscess in the liver, that I stated to you on the last evening; from which the matter was evacuated by the puncture of a lancet; and after- wards by means of pressure, the adhesive inflammation, took place, and the recovery of the patient was the consequence. This, then, is to be your practice, to endeavour to procure a union of the sides of the cavities by the adhesive process. Another reason for the early discharge of matter is the preven- tion of scars, particularly in exposed parts of the body. This may appear to you of little consequence, but I tell you it is not so: scars, from abscesses in the neck of females, excite in the minds of most of our sex a reluctance to associate with them; and thus many a fine young girl may, from these blotches and scars, be doomed to perpetual celibacy. No part of the practice of surgery has been so bad as the manner in which wounds'on the neck have been treated. I have seen on one side of the neck large scars from old wounds that had been badly managed; whilst, on the other side, where the treatment had been more skilful, scarcely any vestige of a wound was to be seen. I have, from very early in life