COMPOSITION OF URINARY CAI.CULI. 369 treatment with nitric acid, as in the former instance. When mixed with triple phosphate, its presence is ascertained with difficulty. It is more soluble in water than the lithic acid calculus, and is of a clay colour; but its characters have not as yet been sufficiently investigated. 3. Phosphate of lime. Before the blowpipe, it first blackens, then becomes white, and afterwards resists the action of heat. If, after being heated in order to decompose the contained animal matter, it be dissolved in very dilute nitric acid, the subsequent addition of nitrate of silver will produce a yellow precipitate, which I is a phosphate of silver, and of course indicates the presence of phosphoric acid. The lime may be detected by adding oxalate of I ammonia to the above nitric solution. 4. Triple phosphate. Before the blowpipe, it emits an ammo- [ niacal smell, becomes reduced in size, and at length melts with I difficulty. The caustic fixed alkalies disengage ammonia. It is very soluble in dilute acids, and the subsequent addition of ammonia causes it to be precipitated in a crytalline form. 5. Oxalate of lime. When heated by the blowpipe it swells, its oxalic acid is decomposed, and the lime is left in the caustic state. j When digested with carbonate of potash, a double decomposition follows; and the oxalate of potash, thus formed, presents its peculiar characters, which are indicative of the presence of oxalic acid. 6. Cystic oxide. This calculus may be readily distinguished by its external appearance. Before the blowpipe it emits a peculiar and foetid odour. It is soluble in a solution of the neutral carbonates of soda and potash; also in those of the caustic alkalies, and most i of the acids. Its solution in nitric acid is precipitated by alcohol. The Xanthic oxide, of which only one specimen has as yet been observed, was so named by Dr. Marcet, from the circumstance of its producing a peculiar yellow compound with nitric acid. Carbonate of lime is sometimes, but very rarely, met with, forming small urinary calculi. These effervesce in dilute muriatic acid, and a precipitate is formed by the addition of oxalate of ! ammonia to the muriatic solution. 2 J£