228 ON THE TYING OF AUTERI F.S. The operation described. In what case it should be done. Case of tying the aorta. by Mr. Stevens, of the West Indies, and since by two other individuals, one of whom was Mr. Atkinson, of York, for the purpose of securing the internal iliac artery. None hut a man endowed with the knowledge which Mr. Stevens possessed would have dared to undertake such an operation; but Mr. Stevens was educated by Mr. Burns, of Glasgow, an enterprising man, and a most excellent anatomist. He was brought up in his dissecting room, and this it was that led Mr. Stevens to the idea of doing it. The operation consists of making an incision on the inner side of the spine of the ilium, by which you cut through the abdominal muscles, and reach the peritoneum, which you turn to the opposite side, in order that the artery may be reached. Now, in this operation there is considerable difficulty in separating the ureter from the artery, because it crosses just at the bifurcation of the iliac artery, and if a man had not been well acquainted with the anatomy of the part, as Mr. Stevens was, he might include the ureter in the ligature, and thus cause destruction of life. I put the ligature round the artery (the learned professor continued showing the operation on the dead body), that you may see it is the internal iliac which I have secured; 1 would not, however, have ventured to perform this operation, if it had not been performed by another; I should have doubted my own powers and skill. It is an operation highly creditable to any one who performs it, but particularly to him who first attempted it. In what case then, would a surgeon be called on to perform this operation? Why, for an aneurism of the gluteal artery, just at its commencement, so that it cannot be reached under the gluteal muscle; the operation must be performed in the manner I have just shown you. TYING THE AORTA. I was sent for one day to go to the other hospital to see a man with violent bleeding from just above the groin, in consequence of a rupture of the external iliac vessel high up; the man had long been a patient there; the integuments had sloughed, and the patient