DISLOCATIONS OF TIIE ANCLE-JOINT. 391 who found his thumb inflamed and painful. Tuesday the inflam- mation had extended to the hand and fingers. Wednesday a swelling appeared at the wrist, above the ligamentum annulare carpi, and the man had a great deal of irritative fever, and was obliged to keep his bed. On Thursday, after lecture, Mr. Kent came to me, requesting I would see this man, who had been delirious during the night: his arm being much convulsed, and his body becoming generally so. I went with Mr. Kent, and feeling the thumb, discovered a fluctu- ation in the theca. I put a lancet into the extremity of the thumb, and a considerable quantity of pus issued. Gratified with the ex- pectation of his being relieved by the discharge of the matter, I was going out of the room to express this feeling to his friends, when I heard a rustling on the bed behind me; and upon Mr. Kent and myself turning back, we saw him under the influence of a convulsive fit, which raised him in his bed, and in which he fell back and expired. Living as these persons generally do, principally upon porter and spirits, they have constitutions which render them the worst subjects for accident. Persons who are much loaded with adeps are generally very ir- ritable, and bear important accidents very ill; indeed they fre- quently perish, whatever plan of treatment be pursued. To this statement, however, there are exceptions in those who, though corpulent, are still in the habit of taking much exercise, as they will retain some vigour of constitution; and in such persons the limb may be attempted to be saved, as in the case described by Mr. Abbott, surgeon of Needham Market; but in those who have become extremely fat, and who have been addicted to habits of indolence, there is but little chance of preserving life but by amputation. Having thus endeavoured to explain what hasi fallen under my own observation, and what I have been able to learn from others upon this difficult subject, I beg to express a hope, that any of my friends, who may have had cases under their care which would Corpulent per- sons. Invitation to correspondence on the subject.