273 OF THE VASA EFFERENT!A. pass in a longitudinal and waved direction, from the posterior to the anterior part of the mediastinum, and are situated in it more to the anterior and lower than to the posterior edge of the testis. And hence I have observed that the mediastinum is composed of two parts: the back part of blood-vessels; the anterior of seminal canals, which form the rete. In these canals of the rete, the tubuli terminate by single vessels, which pass through small apertures, between the ligaments of the mediastinum, and they enter the anterior edge, as well as into the sides and extremities of the rete: but at the posterior edge of the mediastinum they do not enter. The rete terminates at the upper and posterior extremity of the testis, by forming the vasa efferentia. The mediastinum descends towards the centre of the testis, and the central tubuli there enter it, whilst the others pass into its sides. The back part of the mediastinum has a very convoluted artery passing from one extremity to the other. The veins also ramify upon the back of the mediastinum, and send vessels through it, which pass between the ligaments and lobes of the tubuli. Having traced the canals of the rete, and found that they were Mode of situated in, and completely enclosed in the tunica albuginea, it struck me that I might inject these tubes with glue, or even coarse injection, by passing a fine silver or steel pipe into the canals of the rete; and having made trial of this plan, I have injected the tubuli seminiferi with coloured fine injection, and the vasa efferentia were also readily filled, and have been thus able to make some beautiful preparations, more easily dissected, and much less easily spoiled, than those which are made by injecting the tubes with quicksilver. The rete can even be filled with coarse injection; and the begin- nings of the tubuli and the vasa efferentia will receive the injection. If the injecting pipe be placed in the back of the mediastinum, the injection readily escapes into the absorbent vessels, and those of the spermatic cord become filled. / OF TIIE VASA EFFERENTIA. The tubuli contained in the cavity of the tunica albuginea and Vasa efferentia. T