178 OF PUNCTURED WOUNDS. Case. Poison ab- sorbed. Case. Form of wound and state of con- stitution. After an inflammation of this kind in myself, produced by wounding my finger when opening the body of a man executed on the same morning, my throat became sore as the inflammation in the absorbents of my arm subsided, and one of my knees be- came stiff from rheumatism ; when this was subdued by a blister, the other knee became similarly affected. It would seem that under certain circumstances a poison is pro- duced sufficiently strong to excite inflammation, even when there is no wound. Mr. Cook, surgeon, at Marsh-gate, Westminster Bridge, sent to me whilst he was labouring under the highest irritative fever, in consequence of having opened the body of a person who had died of puerperal fever. When I examined him, I found the ex- tremities of his fingers of both hands inflamed, as if they had been dipped in scalding water, and the absorbents of his arms red, hard, and knotted, to the axilla ; yet he had not any wound or abrasion of any kind upon his hands; and it would therefore seem, that the fluid produced in the abdomen of this woman, in which his fingers had been frequently immersed, was of a highly stimulating nature. The effect of punctured wounds depends, however, very much upon the form of the wound, and the state of the constitution. ' When punctures have been made, by a clean needle, the tongue of a knee-buckle, a fragment of bone, &c., nothing can be introduced of a poisonous nature, and the effect must depend upon the form of the w'ound, and the structure injured. But the effect also depends upon the state of the constitution, as is evinced in our young stu- dents suffering in the spring, after confinement in London, in the air of our dissecting room, and in the wards of our hospitals, and by their escaping these violent symptoms in the autumn, when they have just quitted the country. I believe, therefore, that these effects arise from the form of the wound, and the state of the constitution; also occasionally, but rarely, from the introduction of an irritating fluid, the result of