FRACTURES OF THE OS INNOMINATUM. 21)7 severe, and the cuticle was abraded upon those parts. From this day the excoriated parts, which had been excessively bruised, began to slough. On the 21st, the sloughing had increased; the tongue was furred ; pulse 120. On the 22d, she was worse ; and on the 23d, her stomach rejected every thing; she had a strong impression that she should not recover; she refused her medicine and the slough had increased. In the evening of the 24th, she died. EXAMINATION. On the 25th, the body was examined.—A fracture was found passing through the body of the pubes on the left side, and through r the ramus of the left ischium. The right os innominatum was separated from the sacrum at the sacro-iliac symphisis, and a part of the transverse processes of the sacrum was broken off, and torn from the sacrum with the liga- ments. The cartilage and ligaments of the symphisis pubis were torn, and the left sacro-iliac symphisis had given way ; the liga- ment over it being torn, and the bones separated sufficiently to admit the handle of a scalpel being received between them. Blood was found extravasated in the pelvis behind the peri- toneum. I have known three instances of recovery from simple fracture of the os innominatum : two of these were fractures of the ilium, Sand the nature of the accident was easily detected by the crepitus which was perceived upon moving the crista of the ilium ; the third Icase was a fracture at the junction of the ramus of the ischium and pubes. In the two first a circular roller was applied upon the pelvis, and the patient was freely bled : but in the latter no bandage .vas employed. 1 have also known a compound fracture of the os nnominatum, recover; but Mr. Hulbert, surgeon, sent me a com- >ound fracture of the ilium, which had proved fatal. Several cases have also occurred within my knowledge of frac- ure of the pubes, near its symphisis, accompanied with laceration if the bladder, each of which proved destructive; but when the •ones have been broken without injury to the bladder, the patients