117 ON ULCERS. the valves to recover their lost action, and consequently will be found to be highly useful. Another great benefit is derived in these cases from opening the veins; indeed, they are so distended, that they may more properly be termed lakes than rivulets. If you do not open the vessels you will find considerable difficulty in the progress of cure. The best plan that you can adopt is to puncture them by means Puncture, of a lancet, twice in the course of every week as long as you think they require it; let the bandage be afterwards applied, and the parts kept wet by means of evaporating lotion. No danger what- ever attends the opening of these veins, and very great relief will be afforded by it. If the punctures, however, at any time should not unite, but fret into ulcers, you must apply to them the liq. calcis and calomel. It often happens that persons, who, for any length of time, have had the veins of their lower extremities in a varicose state, will find at night a great quantity of blood in their shoes; the crust before alluded to coming off is the cause of the hemorrhage. Upon being called to a patient so situated, you put him in the recumbent posture, apply a bandage, wet the part constantly, either with the spirit wash or cold water, and in all probability you will soon get rid of the disease altogether. Pregnancy is a frequent cause of varicose veins; so also is obesity. It was formerly the practice, when the veins were in a varicose Mal-practice. state, to tie and divide them. This plan is still pursued by many surgeons; but it is one, gentlemen, that I have deprecated in my lectures in this theatre for the last eight or nine years; it is bad treatment, very injudicious, and fraught with great danger; there- fore let me exhort you never to sanction it. I have seen this operation prove fatal in two instances in these hospitals; therefore I was induced to say that it did not succeed, and have for years spoken against it. A gentleman of Nottingham informed me, that he had tied the Case, vena saphena, for a varicose state of the veins of the leg in a young farmer, in other respects healthy, and the operation proved fatal. The same lamentable catastrophe occurred to a most respectable