DISLOCATIONS OF TIIE ANCLE-JOINT. 377 not approving this advice, his friends sent for another surgeon, who said he thought he could save it: the patient placed himself under his care, and the man is recovering.” About thirty years ago, I received from Mr. Lynn, of Wood- bridge, now Dr. Lynn, of Bury St. Edmunds, the astragalus of a man broken into two pieces which he had taken from a dislocated ancle-joint. His letter is as follows:— Dear Sir,—J. York, aged thirty-two years, being pursued by Case, some bailiffs, jumped from the height of several feet to avoid them. The tibia and a part of the astragalus protruded at the inner ancle. I immediately returned the parts into their natural situation. Sup- puration ensued ; and in five weeks a portion of the astragalus sepa- rated, and another piece a week afterwards, which, when joined, formed the ball of that bone. In three months the joint was filled with granulations; it soon afterwards healed, and the man recover- ed with a good use of the limb. I attended a compound dislocation of the ancle-joint, in the year 1797, with Mr. Battley, which I relate in his own words. “ In the month of September, 1797, a gentleman lodging in Duke- Case, street, Smithfield, in a fit of insanity threw himself from a two- pair of stairs window into the street, his feet first reaching the ground. He rose without help, knocked violently at the outer door of the house, and ascended the stairs without the least assist- ance, bolted the door after him and got into bed. He refused to open the door, and it was obliged to be forced. A neighbouring surgeon was sent for, who, on viewing the case, proposed an immediate amputation, which w'as not acceded to by his friends; but Mr. ( Cooper and myself were requested to take charge of the case. On examination there was found a compound dislocation of the ancle- joint. The tibia was thrown on the inner side of the foot; and 1 when the finger was passed into the wound, the astragalus was dis- covered to be shattered into a number of pieces. 1 lie loose and unconnected portions of bone were removed, and the tibia was re- placed ; after which, lint, dipped in the oozing blood, was wrapped