STRUCTURE OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 414 Cervix scapulae. Head of the humerus. Bicipital groove. Cervix humeri. Capsular liga- ment. point of the glenoid cavity, and its basis extends from thence to the notch of the superior costa ; it rises and inclines inwards and forwards, terminating in a point, which is situated under the clavicle, one third the length of that bone from its junction witli the spine of the scapula, and on the inner side of the head of the os humeri, under the pectoral muscle. It covers and protects the joint on its inner side. The glenoid cavity is united to the body of the scapula by a narrow neck, which is called the cervix scapulae; and its nar- rowest part is opposite to the notch of the superior costa of the scapula. The head of the humerus is divided into three portions. The first is an articular surface forming a small part of a sphere, which rests upon the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and is covered with an articular cartilage ; the second is a process called the larger tubercle, formed for the insertion of three muscles; it is situated on the outer portion of the head of the bone, under the deltoid muscle ; and the third is a process called the lesser tubercle, , which is situated on the inner side of the head of the bone towards the axilla; and in the usual position of the arm, nearly in a line with the point of the coracoid process of the scapula. Between these two processes is a groove, which lodges the ten- don of the long head of the biceps muscle, and is termed the bicipital groove. Immediately below the head of the humerus is situated that portion of the bone called the cervix humeri. The capsular ligament of this joint surrounds the head of the bone, and is attached to the whole circumference of the edge of the glenoid cavity, excepting where the tendon of the biceps muscle passes under it; and at that point it arises from a ligament which proceeds from the coracoid process to the edge of the glenoid cavity. The capsular ligament is also fixed to the two tubercles, and towards the axilla, to the neck of the humerus, just below its articular surface. This ligament is not of a uniform thickness ; but at those parts where the joint is not defended