201 ON aneurism of the aorta. insinuated itself into the coats of the left auricle ; the aneurism was of the size of a walnut; its coats had given way, and nature, as it were, thus unloaded herself. These three cases of aneurism of the heart are the only ones that I have seen. ANEURISM OF THE ASCENDING AORTA. Aneurism of the ascending aorta, just at its commencement, where it is covered by the pericardium, is not of uncommon occur- rence. Here are two examples of aneurism in that situation (pointing to the specimens on the table) of the size of a walnut; they had burst into the pericardium, which, on examination, was found filled with blood. I will give you a singular case, in order to put you on your guard, as you must expect to meet with thorns as well as flowers in the profession. A man was brought to the Case, other hospital labouring under popliteal aneurism ; I told him he must submit to an operation. In order to have the principal artery of the thigh secured, he sat down on the table, and was placed in the usual position; before I had quite reached the sartorius muscle, I saw him stretch himself on his back, and perceived urine coming from the penis. I immediately said, This is more than the expression of pain and the apprehension of danger. He got up, made a gasp; I took out a lancet, opened a vein, but no blood came. I then tried to obtain some from the jugular, but in vain ; in three minutes he was quite dead. I said, gentlemen, as you have seen the death, you shall see the exami- nation. He was conveyed to the dead-house ; and the next day I opened the chest, and found the pericardium distended with blood, containing from a pint to a quart; and at the beginning of the aorta, just above the valves, there was an aneurism of the size of a walnut, which had burst. It is well that, in this case, the ligature was not applied, or the principal vessel divided, else the surgeon would probably have had the credit of killing the patient. I mention this case to put you on your guard, that you should Admonition, never operate for aneurism till you have ascertained whether there be one situated in any other part; for it frequently happens, that