OF REMOVING STONES FROM TIIF. ISLADDER, ETC. 398 corpus spongiosum at the scrotum, with considerable urethral discharge, until September 23rd, when the symptoms subsided, under the application of fomentations and poultices. When the size of the stone is observed, it will not excite surprise that I had considerable difficulty in extracting the larger, which weighed fifty-four grains. It was in that part of the urethra near the glans that the chief impediment was found ; and, if I had thought proper to do so, I could have easily removed it from thence by incision, but I preferred completing the extraction without occasioning a wound. Yet I am now disposed to believe that, in a stone of equal magnitude, it would be better to make a small inci- sion into the urethra, anteriorly to the scrotum, than employ force \ for the extraction of the stone through this narrower part of the urethra. A. C. Mr. King’s Case. Mr. William King, aged sixty-six, mariner, residing at Roches- ter, was sent to me by Mr. Newsom, surgeon, of Rochester, on account of his having symptoms of the stone. He came to London on the 29th of October, 1822, and on the 30th he visited me. I sounded him, and found that he had, as Mr. Newsom supposed, calculi in the bladder. I passed the urethral forceps into the bladder, and in a few minutes extracted four calculi; and although I could still perceive that some remained in the bladder, I did not choose to risk the production of any considerable degree of irritation ; but advised him to come on November 1st, to have the operation repeated. On the 1st of November I extracted three calculi; on the 4th, five more; on the 7th, twelve calculi; on the 11th two; and on the 13th, three more. I then examined the bladder with care, but could not perceive any more stones; and, even before the removal of the last, he had experienced considerable diminution of the pain in making water, and of the difficulty in passing it. It is delightful to hear the expressions of gratitude which this