ON ULCERS. 119 If any one medicine improves the nervous system when deranged, more than another, it is this. I have often prescribed it for females when in a state of extreme weakness, and its effects are truly astonishing: two table-spoonfuls of the mixture may be taken four times a-day. If the poultices have not the effect of exciting the granulating process, you may wash the sores with the liq. calcis and calomel lotion, or gently touch their surface with the nitrate of silver. It not unfrequently happens that the skin, in various parts of the Cutaneous ulcers. body, gets into a state of superficial ulceration, and without any evident cause. The best applications in these cases are the yellow wash : ungt. liydr. nit., or the ungt. zinci oxydi. The internal use of the oxymuriate of mercury will likewise be found particularly beneficial and salutary; give it in the formula mentioned to you in a previous lecture, viz. in conjunction with tincture of bark: a small quantity of this mixture should be taken in a little white wine, once or twice daily, according to the age and symptoms. This medicine will be found a very valuable one, when the above- mentioned ulcerations are connected with disease of the mesenteric glands. There is an ulcer often existing on the face, called noli me Noli me tang ere, which name imports nothing more than that you must, not tan»eitl touch it. This disease has never been correctly described; the truth is, that it is an ulceration of the glands or follicles of the nose, those small cavities from which you can squeeze sebaceous matter; the ulceration extending deeply, at last even the cartilages of the nose become destroyed ; the plan of treatment to be pur- sued here is as follows, you must get prepared an ointment according to the following prescription: — R. Arsenic Oxyd. Sulphur Flor. 55 gj. Ungt. Cetacei gj. M. fiat unguentum. You must spread some of this ointment on lint, lay it on the ulcer, and leave it there for twenty-four hours; then Temove it; a slough will come away: you dress the ulcer with some simple