OK ERYSIPELAS. 145 liver and intestines : then allow a generous diet, and administer the ordinary tonics; or from what I have witnessed, I would advise you to try the sulphate of quinine; it is a most powerful tonic, excites in the stomach a genial warmth, and will often remain in that organ when bark will not. Dr. Marcet, now deceased, but late a physician of Guy’s, Experiment, endeavoured to ascertain whether the antiphlogistic or tonic mode of treatment was best for this disease ; therefore he put two persons, having erysipelas, into adjoining beds; to one of whom were given tonics and a generous diet; to the other, salines and low diet; blood likewise was abstracted from the latter; they both recovered, the former rapidly, while the latter lingered in a debilitated state for a very considerable period. You will find, where the erysipelas attacks the lower orders 0f Stimulant, this town, who weaken their constitutions by the excessive use of ardent spirits, that gin may be sometimes advantageously employed as a remedy, at once being the evil and its cure; the two last cases of this disease which I saw in the other hospital, prove the truth of what I am now saying: a man had erysipelas dreadfully severe; Case, his head swollen to an enormous size, and his recovery, by every person, thought impossible. It was discovered, one day, that his wife brought him some gin. He declared that he was better from having drunk it, was consequently permitted its continuance, and, to the astonishment of all, he rapidly got well. Not six weeks after this, there was another man, similarly circumstanced, brought into the same ward; and having, from the result of the above case, formed a high opinion of gin, I directed the sister to give it here also; and really this patient recovered as speedily as the former. But it is in the debility consequent upon the first stage of the disease that this plan is to be resorted to. The local treatment of erysipelas consists in the application of camphorated spirits of wine in the first stages. When the vesications are about to break, or are broken, powder the part with starch, and if gangrene be produced, apply a port i.