ACUTE AND CHRONIC ABSCESS 86 Causes of hectic fever. or folds of the neck. One more observation on this subject: let me entreat you not to open these tumours when they have a blush on them like the hue of a grape; the veins are in a dilated state, and if you open the tumour, you will bring discredit on yourself. If the edges of the wound should not unite in any part, a little injection of sulphate of zinc or copper may be used. There are two other points connected with this subject, which I will mention to you, and then I shall have done. 1. The causes of hectic fever. You are all aware that a con- tinued fever, i. e. rigors followed by heat, and a sweating stage, attend the formation of matter: these rigors take place once or twice in twenty-four hours, according to the irritability of the part and constitution ; and had it been asked, thirty or forty years ago, on what it depended, it would have been said, absorption of matter into the constitution. Some of the old surgeons used to put sponge to the mouth of wounds, to absorb the matter, and prevent its being carried into the constitution; hut, gentlemen, it appears to have no power on the constitution. There is no doubt, cer- tainly, that the inoculation of putrid matter will, as we often see, sometimes prove fatal. The proofs that the absorption of common matter into the constitution does not produce fever, are—1. It is not during the formation of matter that the fever comes on; for never till after the abscesses have broken is the patient attacked with it. Certainly, the formation of matter will be attended with a slight fever, but not of the hectic kind: the tongue will be clean, the pulse very little affected, and the person very slightly deranged; but after an opening is made into the part, constitutional irritation sometimes comes on, and life is then endangered. 2dly. The degree of hectic fever is not at all proportionate to the size of the surface on which the matter is formed. Look, for instance, at a large -wound on the leg : the person will be going about with it, and feel little or no inconvenience; whilst a sore on the lungs of the size of a crown produces hectic fever of the most violent kind. On one part, it is very considerable; on another, it is very slight.