430 DISLOCATIONS OF THE OS HUMERI. Appearances on dissection. Causes of dislo- cation. bone was thrown on the neck and part of the venter of the scapula, near the edge of the glenoid cavity, and immediately under the notch of the superior costa : nothing intervened between the head of the humerus and scapula, the subscapularis being partly raised from its attachment to the venter. The head was situated on the inner side of the coracoid process, and immediately under the edge of the clavicle, without having the slightest connexion with the ribs; indeed, this must have been prevented by the situation of the subscapularis and serratus magnus muscles between the thorax and humerus. The tendons of all the muscles attached to the tubercles of the humerus were perfect, and are shewn in the preparation. The tendon of the biceps was not torn; and it adhered to the capsular ligament. The glenoid cavity was com- pletely filled up by ligamentous structure ; still, however, preserv- ing its general form and character. The tendons of the supra and infra-spinatus, and teres minor muscles, adhered by means of bands to the ligamentous structure occupying the glenoid cavity ; and to prevent the effects of friction between the tendons and the glenoid cavity in the motions of the arm, a sesamoid bone had been formed in the substance of the tendons. The newly-formed socket reached from the edge of the glenoid cavity to about one- third across the venter. A complete lip was formed around the new cavity, and the surface was irregularly covered with cartilage. The head had undergone considerable change of form, the cartilage being in many places absorbed. A complete new capsular liga- ment had been formed. The pectoralis minor is not mentioned in this dissection; but from the natural situation of the coracoid process, into which this muscle is inserted, it must have passed over the head of the os humeri, as did the pectoralis major. The usual causes of this dislocation are, either a fall upon the elbow, or a violent blow upon the shoulder, as in the last-described dislocation. If it be a blow upon the elbow which has produced the accident, it must have been inflicted at a time when the elbow was thrown behind the central line of the body; and when the