487 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. At the time I lived with Mr. Cline as his apprentice, the fol- lowing case occurred in his practice. A boy, about three years of age, from a severe fall injured his Case, neck; and the following symptoms succeeding the accident, Mr. Cline was consulted. % He was obliged to walk carefully upright, as persons do when carrying a weight on the head: and when he wished to examine any object beneath him, he supported his chin upon his hands and gradually lowered his head, to enable him to direct his eyes down- wards ; but if the object was above him, he placed both his hands upon the back of his head, and very gradually raised it until his eyes caught the point which he wished to see. If, in play with other children, they ran against him, it produced a shock which caused great pain; and he was obliged to support his chin with his hand, and to go immediately to a table, upon which he placed his elbows, and thus supporting his head he re- mained a considerable time, until the effects of concussion had ceased. He died about twelve months after the accident; and upon the inspection of his body, which was conducted by Mr. Cline, the first vertebra of the neck was found broken across, so that the dentiform process of the second vertebra had so far lost its support, that under different inclinations of the head, it re- quired great care to prevent the spinal marrow from being com- pressed by it; and as the patient could not depend upon the action of the muscles of the neck, he therefore used his hands to support the head during different motions and positions. Portions of the spinous processes are sometimes broken off, but Spinous process, these accidents do not usually affect the spinal marrow, unless when attended with considerable concussion. Mr. Aston Key, in dissecting a subject at St. Thomas’s Hospital, found a spinous process loose, which he kindly brought to me, with the following account; “ The fractured vertebra was the third dorsal; the cause of the accident I could not ascertain, as it occurred in a subject brought into the dissecting-room. I here was a complete arti- culation formed between the broken surfaces, which had become