ON WOUNDS OF THE. BRAIN. 181 you can see the pulsation of the carotids, at some distance from the bed; this circumstance, of itself, would be quite sufficient to convince you that there was a great determination of blood to the brain. The next thing which you observe is, that the patient is seized with rigors, and these follow in very quick succession; hemiplegia likewise often attends, and is generally situated on that side of the body opposite to the wound; the patient remains in a comatose state, but, when roused, will give you (until towards the very last) rational answers to such questions as may be put to him. These, then, are the ordinary symptoms of inflammation of the brain, arising from wounds of that organ. If the inflammation should terminate in suppuration, I have Formation of already shown you in a former lecture where the matter would be situated, viz., between the dura mater and skull (this rarely happens), pia mater and tunica arachnoides, pia mater and surface of the brain, and, lastly, in the substance of the brain itself. When pus is situated between the dura mater and skull, Pus between trephining for its removal would be attended with complete success; dura but the chances of finding it there are against you, as it is generally situated between the pia mater and surface of the brain, for which an operation would prove worse than useless. Another situation in the head where matter has been found is, in the longitudinal sinus of the dura mater. This woman (holding up a preparation), Case, seventeen months before she died, fell down stairs, and her head came in violent contact against a chest, by which she became stunned; for some time after the fall, matter was discharged from one of her ears; this at length ceased, and, to all appearance, she was entirely well. The pain, however, again returned with evident symptoms of compression ; and sixteen months after the accident she was admitted into this hospital. After some remedies had been fruitlessly tried, and she had been here for a short time, it was thought advisable to apply the trephine; the operation was unsuc- cessful, and four days afterwards she died. Upon examination it was found that there was a small quantity of pus embedded in the