380 OF THE DIFFICULTIES AND DANGERS OF injures the peritoneum, and brings on peritoneal inflammation; thirdly, it injures the prostate, sometimes tears the urethra at the membranous portion ; and I have known the rectum lacerated, where it had not been injured by the incisions, which can only arise, in the use of the knife, from ignorance or negligence. If the stone cannot be grasped with the straight forceps, a curved pair should be emploved. The operation for the stone consists, therefore, first, in opening the membranous part of the urethra, and dividing the transverse perineal muscles on the left side with the knife, and exposing the groove of the staff; secondly, in dividing the left half of the prostate gland horizontally, and that portion of the bladder connected with it, by means of the gorget, or probed knife; thirdly, in introducing the forceps, by which the stone is seized and extracted. OF THE DIFFICULTIES AND DANGERS OF THE OPERATION FOR THE STONE. Stricture in the urethra. Enlarged prostate. Lateral en largement. If the urethra be the subject of stricture, do not perform the operation until it will admit a large staff. The strictures being removed, the operation is less difficult, and the recovery quicker and more certain. An enlarged prostate gland offers great difficulties to the operator, and if the stone be of large size, the patient will seldom recover, as the impediment to extraction is excessive, and the violence obliged to be used such as the patient can ill bear, at the period of life at which such disease of the prostate occurs. It is, therefore, in such cases, a very fortunate event when the stone breaks, as it is removed with less risk to the patient, although it renders the operation tedious. A lateral enlargement of the prostate gland produces less diffi- culty, if it be freely divided, than the enlargement of the middle lobe; and this gland should always be examined per anum in aged persons, to prevent the surgeon being baffled by this disease, and if