] 82 EFFECTS OF PUNCTURED WOUNDS Case. Case. Degree of spasm varies. Tetanus, acute and chronic. Treatment. believe that it is rather the result of injury to tendinous than to nervous structures. Extensive injuries, by their sympathetic influence, and by their severe shock to the nervous system, produce the destruction of life, even without vascular reaction or inflammation. The symptoms which arise are sometimes only general spasm, sometimes trismus, and sometimes tetanus. I once saw a boy die, in a few hours, of the most violent spasms of most of the muscles of his body, from the pointed extremity of a broken thigh-bone having penetrated the under side of the rectus femoris. I saw a person die from spasm, produced by a punctured wound in the triangular ligament of the pubes, from a sharp piece of wood; and I have seen a great number of such cases from injury to the hand and foot. Sometimes, instead of this general spasm, the influence of the wound is particularly felt in the muscles of the jaw, producing trismus, with the subsequent affection of the muscles of volition, and afterwards those of respiration, constituting tetanus. Some- times the muscles of the posterior part of the trunk are more par- ticularly affected, when the term opisthotonos is applied to the disease; and sometimes, on the contrary, the muscles of the an- . terior part are chiefly attacked, when the disease is named em- prosthotonos. In the first case, the body is curved forcibly back- wards ; and, in the second instance, forwards. The muscles of the extremities become also extremely rigid and contracted, so that the joints cannot be moved; and, in the greater number of cases, life is destroyed in a few days. However, it may be observed, that there are two kinds of tetanus; one of an acute form, which generally terminates the patient’s existence; and the other, of a chronic nature, which, after a time, is often recovered from. The treatment which I have seen pursued in acute tetanus, has been,—