150 ON INJURIES OK THE 1IEAH. Mind, memory and language. Case. Intellectual aberration. they were obliged to break it open, and then could not procure from him a single word. Indeed, I do not believe the noise of an earthquake would have succeeded in rousing him from his lethargy; yet he could get out of bed, pass his urine, and adopt his ordinary habit of delicacy, by bolting the door. I have caught a man, when labouring under the effects of concussion, with his feet in a chamber- pot, and by the action of his hands, it was evident that he was trying to throw w'ater over his legs; upon the servant going into the room of the same individual some days after, he was found to be attempting to shave himself, and having no lather, he substituted a pot of spermaceti ointment, which he had brushed all over his face. I suppose you have all heard of the extraordinary change which the memory sometimes undergoes from the effects of concussion. The first story of this kind that I ever heard was from Mr. Cline. A man was taken to Guy’s, in a state of insensibility, in which condi- tion he remained for some time, but at length recovered ; and when he did so, no person in the hospital could understand his language; a milk-woman happening to go into the ward one day, heard him, and discovered that he was speaking Welch ; he told her that he knew English well before the accident; but, after it, all knowledge of that language was obliterated from his mind. It had been recently acquired ; the impression was less strong, and consequently the more easily effaced. I witnessed a similar circumstance in the case of a German, who was a sugar-baker in this town, and who had compression of the brain, arising not from any injury by violence, but from pressure in consequence of the formation of matter. This man could speak English extremely well before the compression; but as the com- pression increased from the accumulation of matter, he lost his English entirely, and I could only communicate with him through the medium of an interpreter. At last he lost the power of speaking even in his native language, and he died in consequence of the accumulation of matter. It is curious to observe the gradual change which takes place in the intellectual faculties, as alterations occur in the brain; and the