FRACTURES OF TltE UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. 327 to vary very much in different examples, being more or less com- ; plicated, but it is external to the capsular ligament; and the frac- ture is placed at the neck of the root of the thigh-bone, the tro- | chanter is split, and the neck of the bone is received into its cleft. The trochanter major is often broken into several portions. We have few opportunities of dissecting these cases in the i young, because they recover from the accident; and, therefore, the i examination of them has been most frequently made in aged per- sons, to whom they always prove fatal. My friend, Mr. Roux, sent me from Paris a fractured thigh- bone, in which the neck of the bone had been broken at the same part as in Mr. Powell’s case, and had been united in a similar manner. But it frequently happens in this injury, that the fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone is complicated with an injury of the trochanter major and trochanter minor. Since the publication of a former edition of this work *, 1 have inspected, with Mr. Key, a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone. The moment I had examined the patient, I pronounced the case to be a fracture external to the capsule, and was led to believe so from some little diminution in the length of the limb; from the ecehymosis which attended it; from its distinct crepitus without any rotation ; from the diminished motion of the upper part of the thigh; from the sunken state of the trochanter ; and from excite- ment of great pain by the smallest motion. This man died in a fortnight after the accident. When the body was placed upon the table for examination, post mortem, all the limbs were rigid from the fixed contraction of the muscles, and consequently, the thigh was drawn up to its greatest possible extent; yet the limb was found to be not quite three quarters of an inch shorter than the other. The posterior part of the sheath of the vessels, and some branches of blood-vessels were torn by the bone, which accounted for the ecehymosis. The neck of the bone was forced into the cancelli of the trochanter major. Before writing this statement, I again enquired of Mr. Key, the * Sir Astley alludes here to his large work on Dislocations, &o. Roux sends a specimen from Paris.