368 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. nor is there any considerable projection of the heel. The follow- ing are the signs of this accident. The foot is pointed downwards and a difficulty is experienced in the attempt to put it flat on the ground; the heel is drawn up, and the foot is in a great degree immoveable. The first case of this kind which I saw was in a very stout lady who resided at Stoke Newington, who had by a fall, as she said sprained her ancle. When I examined the limb I found the fool immoveably fixed, pointed downwards, and attended with gre'ai pain just above the ancle. I attempted to draw the foot forward and bend it, but could not succeed. Some years afterwards I saw this lady at Bishop Stortford, walking upon crutches: her toe was pointed, and she was unable to bring any other part of the foot tc the ground; the degree of distortion was less than that which oc curs in the complete luxation of the bone forwards: but all tensior having now been subdued, the nature of the injury was more evident, though I should not have known it decidedly, without an examination of a foot shewn to me by one of my late ap prentices, who was so kind as to give me the parts which were taken from a subject dissected at Guy’s Hospital, The ar- ticular surface of the lower part of the tibia was divided into two, the anterior part was seated upon the os naviculare, the posterior upon the astragalus; these two articulatory surfaces, formed at the lower extremity of the bone, had been rendered smooth by friction. The fibula was found fractured. The result of this dislocation clearly proves the necessity which exists in these accidents, however slight they may at first sight appear, of not resting satisfied until the foot be returned into its natural position, and restored to its motion; for, if neglected in the commencement, severe inflammation and tension will prevent even a forcible extension from being afterwards useful; and if still longer neglected, the changes in the state of the muscles, and the union of the fractured fibula, will preclude the possibility of a reduction, even under the most violent attempts. The mode of reduction and after treatment will in no respect differ from that j