54 ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. Al'PEARANCES. Organization of adhesive matter. Hunter’s opt nion. Use of the ad- hesive inflam- mation. In compound fractures. Adhesive matter, when effused on a thin membrane, coagulates into a net-work, assuming the character of cellular membrane. When adhesive matter has been formed, blood-vessels soon enter it, and within a short time it becomes organized; the vasa vasorum are elongated by the force of the circulation : they enter the newly- formed substance, and send throughout it minute ramifications. On cutting into adhesive matter within twenty-four hours after it has been deposited, small bloody spots may be seen, which mark the future situation of the vessels which nourish it; but it is not till ten days after it has been formed that adhesive matter becomes completely organized ; for you will find, that a fine injection would not enter adhesive matter sooner than the tenth or eleventh day after its formation. When vessels elongate, they have not the character of arteries ; in general, they take a serpentine or tortuous course. Some thought, at one time, and I believe Mr. Hunter was one of this opinion, that the vessels originated in the newly-formed substance; but they are formed by the elongation of the vasa vasorum of the surrounding arteries, which become dilated, length- ened, and serpentine: and the degree of vascularity will be in proportion to that of the part subjected to the adhesive inflamma- tion. In tendons, for instance, it will be much less than in muscles. This process is of the greatest possible consequence in surgery. It ought, therefore, to command much of your attention ; and it will be unfortunate for you if you do not understand it. Without this process no operation could be attended with success; its absence, even after bleeding, would destroy life. Bear this prin- ciple in mind, then, gentlemen—always endeavour to effect union by adhesion. You have seen, during this present winter, a man admitted into Guy’s Hospital, with a compound fracture, which was rendered simple by applying lint dipped in blood, and, in a fortnight, all danger from the accident was dissipated. Suppose you were called to a compound fracture, what would you do ? Endeavour, certainly, by bringing the parts together, to