369 dislocations of the ancle-joint. required in the perfect dislocation of the bone forwards, either in regard to the relaxation of the muscles, the bandages, or the local and constitutional treatment. SIMPLE DISLOCATION OF THE TIBIA OUTWARDS. This luxation is the most dangerous of the three; for it is pro- duced by greater violence, is attended with more contusion of the integuments, more laceration of ligament, and greater injury to the bone, than either of the others. The foot is thrown inwards, and its outer edge rests upon the ground. The malleolus ex- ternus projects the integuments of the ancle very much out- Symptoms, wards, and forms so decided a prominence, that the nature of the injury cannot be mistaken. The foot and toes are pointed downwards. In the dissection of this accident, it is found that the malleolus Dissection, internus of the tibia is obliquely fractured and separated from the shaft of the bone. The fractured portion sometimes consists only of the malleolus; at others, the fracture passes obliquely through the articular surface of the tibia, which is thrown forwards and outwards upon the astragalus, before the malleolus externus. The astragalus is sometimes fractured, and the lower extremity of the fibula is broken into several splinters. The deltoid ligament remains unbroken, but the capsular ligament is torn on its outer part. The three fibular-tarsal ligaments remain whole in most cases, but when the fibula is not broken they are ruptured. None jf the tendons are lacerated, and internal haemorrhages scarcely iver occur to any extent, as the large arteries generally escape njury. This accident happens either by the passage of a carriage- .vheel over the leg, or by a distortion of the foot in jumping or ailing. The mode of reduction consists in placing the patient upon his Reduction. >ack, in bending the thigh at right angles with the body, and the eg at right angles with the thigh; the thigh is then grasped inder the ham by one assistant, and the foot by another: and hus an extension is made in the axis of the leg, while the sur- VOL. II. B B