264 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. Mode of dis- location. Dislocations on the dorsum ilii. Symptoms. ment:—an example of its use, which shews the principal reason of its formation. The thigh-bone I have seen dislocated in four directions:— First, upwards, cr upon the dorsum of the ilium; secondly, down- wards, or into the foramen ovale; thirdly, backwards and upwards, or into the ischiatic notch; and, fourthly, forwards and upwards, j or upon the body of the pubes. A dislocation downwards and backwards, has been described by some surgeons, who have had opportunities for observation; but I have to remark, that no dis- i location of that description has occurred at St. Thomas’s or Guy’s Hospitals, within the last thirty years, or in my private practice; and although I would not deny the possibility of its occurrence, yet I am disposed to believe that some mistake has arisen upon this subject. DISLOCATION UPWARDS, OR ON THE DORSUM ILII. V This dislocation is the most frequent of those which happen to the hip-joint: and the following are the signs of its existence. The dislocated limb "is from one inch and a half to two inches and a half shorter than the other, as will be seen by comparing the malleoli intend, when the foot is bent at right angles with the leg. The toe rests upon the tarsus of the other foot; the knee and foot are turned inwards, and the knee is a little advanced upon the other. When the attempt is made to separate the leg from the ® other, it cannot be accomplished, for the limb is firmly fixed in its new situation, so far as regards its motion outwards; but the thigh can be slightly bent across the other. If the bone be not concealed by extravasation of blood, the head of the thigh-bone can be perceived during rotation of the knee inwards, moving upon the dorsum ilii; and the trochanter major advances towards its an- terior and superior spinous process, so as to be felt much nearer to it than usual. The trochanter is less prominent than on the opposite side, for the neck of the bone and the trochanter rest in the line of the surface of the dorsum ilii; and upon a comparison of the two