GENERA!. DESCRIPTION OE HERNIA. occasional exceptions, arising from some of the viscera being only partially covered by peritoneum in their natural state. The older surgeons thought that herniae were formed by a lace- Its formation, ration of the peritoneum and abdominal muscles, which gave rise to the term rupture; but dissection has proved that such a rupture of the membrane scarcely ever happens. The peritoneum in form- ing a hernial sac is not dragged from its natural situation, but be- comes elongated by gradual distention, and it is usually not only lengthened, but slightly thickened ; for a long continued pressure of moderate force will produce an elongation and thickening of fibre, though a greater degree will bring about an entire absorption of parts. This is proved, in the first case, by the vast increase of size and thickness which the tunica vaginalis undergoes in an old hydrocele ; and in the second, by the entire removal of the sternum and cartilages of the ribs in aneurism. It is by the first of these principles in the animal ceconomy that a hernial sac is produced, and if the sac be compared with the peritoneum from which it originated, it will generally be found to be a more dense and com- pact membrane. But when the hernia becomes of very consider- able magnitude, the peritoneum forming the sac becomes thinner Sometimes than natural; for the extension may go beyond the degree at tllL which pressure thickens; and from this cause it is that in old and large herniae, the peristaltic motion of the intestines may some- times be seen through the sides of the sac. This is also one rea- son why herniae are sometimes found without sacs, for, the process of extension having ceased, the sac becomes either entirely ab- sorbed or remains only at the orifice ; and hence, over the larger part of the tumour in one species of hernia, frequently no covering is left for the protruded viscera but skin and cellular membrane. On the other hand, the sac has occasionally been observed to be Thickened, so much thickened as to retain nothing of its original peritoneal texture, and to be divisible into layers. But from what I have seen of this disease, I am induced to believe that this opinion has originated from the want of sufficient distinction between the coverings of the sac, and the sac itself; for, as far as I can dis-