OF THE OPERATION FOR 132 Difficulty. General treat- ment. Symptoms ur- gent. of the operator. The tumour is first to be pressed downwards, until it be below the level of Poupart’s ligament, when it is to be kneaded upwards towards the abdomen. The difficulty usually experienced in attempting to reduce this form of hernia, arises from the pressure being made at first in an improper direction, viz. upwards, so that the hernia is forced over Poupart’s ligament, instead of beneath it, and in this way the hernia never can be reduced. As in the reduction of inguinal hernia, the pressure should be gentle and continued, avoiding violence, which may be productive of the most serious consequences. Should the taxis fail, the same general treatment as that di- rected for inguinal hernia, should be pursued, as bleeding, the warm bathjiopium, the application of cold, and the injection of the to- bacco glyster. These remedies, however, have much less beneficial influence in femoral, than in the other forms of hernia; which I imagine is owing to the nature of the parts through which the pro- i trusion occurs, and the smallness of the aperture through which it descends. As the symptoms are usually very urgent in femoral hernia, and as the disease more rapidly destroys life, there is the greater ne- cessity for the early performance of an operation, when the usual means to effect reduction have been tried and have failed. I have known a patient die in seventeen hours after the symptoms of strangulation had commenced; and on the contrary, I have per- formed an operation with success, after the symptoms had existed seven days; but in general, the patients labouring under this dis- ease do not survive the strangulation more than four days, if the stricture remain; whereas, in inguinal hernia, under similar cir- • cumstances, they often live a week or more. OF THE OPERATION FOR FEMORAL HERNIA. The hair is to be removed from the surface of the tumour, and the bladder should be emptied. The patient should then be placed i Preparation.