OF THE OPERATION IN PERINFO, 415 mine produced. The urethra was opened behind the scrotum, and the urine readily discharged. The patient rapidly recovered without any bad symptom. I was also induced to act as I have described, by the following Case, case. I was sent for early one morning to visit a patient with retention of urine, who had a cicatrix at the extremity of the urethra, from a chancre ; for some time the urine had passed in a great degree by drops; and when in a stream, in one not larger than a hair. When I saw him, the urgency to make water was excessive, but not a drop would pass, yet I found that it distended the urethra as far as opposite to the situation of the fraetmm. I therefore immediately passed a lancet through the cicatrix in the usual seat of the meatus, and so soon as I penetrated the glans the urine rushed by the sides of the lancet. Mr. Robert Pugh, of Gracechurch Street, sent to me to visit a Case, patient of his who had a retention of urine from stricture in the urethra, which no instrument would pass. Upon directing him to try to micturate, the urethra could be felt to swell behind the stricture, and I passed a lancet into it behind the obstruction. The urine directly flowed through the opening. 1 now never open the bladder, but merely do as I have above described; and I am happy to say, that some of my surgical friends, at our Hospitals, have repeatedly adopted the same plan, and successfully. I sometimes introduce a female catheter into the urethra through the wound, to prevent extravasation and to permit the easy passage of the urine, but this is not absolutely necessary. This operation has been objected to, on the supposition that Objections to it requires great anatomical knowledge, and is very difficult to the °Peratl0U perform:—to the first objection I will say, that he who is adverse to an operation because it requires anatomical knowledge, should immediately give up his profession; for if surgery be not founded upon an accurate knowledge of anatomy, it will be better for mankind that there should be no surgery, as disease will proceed better with the natural means of relief, than with the aid of those surgeons who are not anatomists.