141 TREATMENT OF REDUCIBLE UMBILICAL HERNIA. stance of three children in one family who have this disease, and in whom at birth the funis was larger than usual. Children are sometimes born with a deficiency of the abdominal muscles at the umbilical aperture, which gives rise to a large pro- j trusion, a little on one side of which is the funis, and the covering | is so thin, that the intestines may be seen through it. The edges I of the skin surrounding the tumour are of a red colour, and some- | what thickened and retracted. A small tumour sometimes projects from the navel of children, which surgeons have mistaken for hernia. It hangs in the hollow of the navel, is of a florid red colour, and is attached by a small neck. The first case of this kind which I saw was brought to me from the neighbourhood of Sittingbourne, in Kent. The child was se- ven years of age, and during the first four years of its life it had a discharge from the navel, and the funis, which had sloughed further from the navel than usual, had never healed. A small red and fungous tumour then appeared, which bled frequently, and at other | times discharged a bloody serum, and was painful when irritated j by exercise. On examining this substance, I found it arose from the circumstance of the funis being so long as to project beyond the skin of the navel, which prevented cicatrization. I made a j ligature around it, which gave the child scarcely any pain, and on the following day I removed it with scissors. I have seen another case of a similar kind. TREATMENT OF REDUCIBLE UMBILICAL HERNIA. In infants subject to this disease, the plan I usually adopt is, In infants, after having reduced the hernia, to apply half of an ivory ball suf- ficient to cover the opening, and to confine it in that situation by means of adhesive plaister. A linen belt should be applied, and secured round the body, but as soon as the child begins to walk, two straps must be fixed to the lower part of the belt, which should i i