OPERATION FOR STRANGLATED 80 Fomentations When necessary. But little danger. Gangrene. employed, but they have so repeatedly been found not only in- effectual in this complaint, but positively injurious, that their use is now entirely laid aside, excepting when the symptoms are very slight. If the strangulation has produced vomiting, purgatives only increase it, for the stomach is so irritable that the medicine is rejected as soon as swallowed, and hence cannot have a purgative effect, whatever be the extent of strangulation in the intestine; and if the hernia be omental, little advantage could be derived from purgatives. Where the symptoms are but slight, aperient medicines may be given, if there is either no vomiting or only at distant intervals. In such cases, I have known opium, joined with calomel and ca- thartic extract, produce stools and relieve the patient. In slight cases, fomentations and poultices may be applied with advantage; but still, even in the less urgent cases, I think them much inferior to the application of cold. In one case, in which the tumour was tense, and the scrotum much inflamed, I found the application of leeches, and the subsequent application of fomenta- tions, occasion a return of the protruded parts. OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED INGUINAL HERNIA. When the means I have recommended have been tried, without enabling the surgeon to reduce the hernia, or relieve the strangu- lation, it becomes necessary that an operation should be performed, to liberate the strangulated viscus. There is but little danger attending this operation, if the per- son upon whom it is to be performed be free from other disease. The cause of persons who have undergone this operation so fre- quently dying, is not to be attributed to the operation, but to the degree of mischief which has taken place previously to its being performed. When strangulation has existed for a long time, the contents of the hernia either become gangrenous, or in a state so nearly ap- proaching to it, that they do not recover their proper functions,