278 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. Symptoms. Specimen dis- sected by Sir Astley. not torn through in this dislocation; because in the dead body, when the capsular ligament is divided, the head of the bone can be drawn over the lower edge of the acetabulum without tearing the ligamentum teres. But the dislocation in the foramen ovale hap pens whilst the thighs are widely separated, during which act the ligamentum teres is upon the stretch; and when the head of the bone is thrown from the acetabulum, this ligament is torn through before it entirely quits the cavity. The limb is in this case two inches longer than the other. The head of the bone can be felt by pressure of the hand upon the inner and upper part of the thigh towards the perinaeum, but only in very thin persons. The trochanter major is less prominent than on the opposite side. The body is bent forwards by the tension of the psoas and iliacus internus muscles. The knee is considerably advanced if the body be erect; it is widely separated from the other, and cannot be brought without great difficulty near the axis of the body to touch the other knee, in consequence of the exten- sion of the glutei and pyriformis muscles. The foot, though widely separated from the other, is generally neither turned out* wards nor inwards, although I have seen it varying a little in this respect in different instances; but the position of the foot does not in this case mark the accident. The bent position of the body, tl separated knees, and the increased length of the limb, are t diagnostic symptoms. The position of the head of the bone is below, and a little anterior to, the axis of the acetabulum ; and a hollow is perceived below Poupart’s ligament. There is an excellent preparation of this accident in the collec- tion at St. Thomas’s Hospital, which I dissected many years agi The head of the thigh-bone was found resting in the foram ovale, but the obturator externus muscle was completely absorb© as well as the ligament naturally occupying the foramen, now tirely filled by bone. Around the foramen ovale bony matter was deposited, so as to form a deep cup, in which the head of the thigh-bone was inclosed, but in such a manner as to allow of con- siderable motion; the cup thus formed, surrounded the neck of the