DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. 408 Cause. Case. never known to occur from violence, yet it might happen from excessive force, as from a blow upon the fore part of the hone, which should tear the capsular and clavicular costal ligament, and allow the bone to glide behind the sternum, occasioning compression of the oesophagus, and rendering deglutition difficult. The trachea would, from its elasticity, elude pressure and escape to the opposite side of the space by which this tube enters the thorax. The only cause of this dislocation that I have known, was pro- duced by great deformity of the spine, by which the scapula ad- vanced and sufficient space was not left for the clavicle between the scapula and sternum ; in consequence of which the bone gra- dually glided back behind the sternum, and produced so much in- convenience by its pressure on the oesophagus, as to lead to a necessity for the removal of its sternal extremity. This case is extremely creditable to the knowledge, skill, and dexterity of Mr. Davie, surgeon at Bungay, in Suffolk; few would have thought of the mode of relief—very few would have dared to perform the operation—and a still smaller number would have had sufficient knowledge for its accomplishment. The following particulars I in part received in conversation with Mr. Davie, who fell a victim to his great professional zeal, and in part from Mr. Henchman Crowfoot, surgeon of Beccles. He had the kindness to go over to Dr. Camell, of Bungay, to learn from him some of the particulars, and there met with a person who gave him several others, and who knew the patient for some years after the operation. Miss Loffly, of Metfield, Suffolk, had a great deformity, arising from a distorted spine, increased by an accident which displaced the sternal extremity of the left clavicle, and threw it behind the sternum. The progressive distortion of the spine gradually ad- vanced the scapula, and occasioned the sternal end of the clavicle to project inwards, behind the sternum, so as to press upon the oesophagus, and occasion extreme difficulty in deglutition. Her deformity had become excessive and her emaciation ex- treme. i •1 ( i to to ioi ft! B 111 It pat i|» i ■ Oi 'll ' lllli