168 ON FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. these fractures, however, can only occur in those of a middle age, for in the very young- and in very old age, the skull is thin and without diploe. I believe in the course of my practice that I have frequently met with this accident, and we have many preparations in the museum which clearly demonstrate their true character; but the three now before me (pointing to three skulls) are, I think, quite sufficient to satisfy your minds as to the nature of this accident; here you see the external table has been driven in, and yet no vestige of fracture in the internal; here is another specimen, with greater depression; and the third still more than either, yet the internal plate is sound. I am not acquainted with the histories of these specimens, but it is evident that the persons recovered by the re-union that has occurred between the parts which were broken. Suppose you are called to a patient who has had a severe blow on the head, and that, on examining the skull, you find a portion of bone considerably depressed. You may still find this man capable of giving a history of the accident, and that his mind is not at all affected. On the other hand, you may be called to a person who has a fracture of the skull, with depression, and who has lost the powers of mind. In such a case, if the fracture be simple, and there is no wound in the scalp, and no symptom of injury to the brain, it would be the worst practice in the world to make an incision into the part, and perform the operation of trephining; for by making such an incision you add greatly to the danger of the patient, as you make what was before a simple, a compound fracture, and consequently greatly increase the danger of inflammation. Inflammation rarely follows fracture with depression, where the fracture is simple, but very often follows a compound fracture, which is produced by making an incision in the scalp. Never make an incision, therefore, when you can avoid it, or merely because there is fracture with depression, if there be no symptom of injury to the brain. Even if there be symptoms of injury to the brain, and the fracture be simple, do not immediately trepan.