44 OF THE OBLIQUE truded viscera, and forms a sac in which they are contained, and which is usually called the hernial sac. This protrusion is some- what thicker than the natural peritoneal lining of the abdomen, the pressure of the viscera leading to an interstitial deposition into the membrane; it is not placed loosely in the parts into which it is protruded, but it adheres by cellular tissue to all the surround- ing structures. OF THE OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. Synonymes. Structure of the inguinal canal. Epigastric artery. This is also called bubonocele when seated in the inguinal canal; and, when it further descends, is named scrotal; as it takes the course of the spermatic cord, it might well be denominated sper- matocele. Before I describe the course and dissection of this hernia, it is necessary that I should say something on the structure of the in- guinal canal, and of the course of the spermatic cord. The spermatic cord first quits the abdomen mid-way between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the sym- physis pubis; it here passes between two layers of the fascia transversalis, the anterior layer of which is fixed in Poupart’s ligament, whilst the posterior layer descends behind Poupart’s ligament, and assists in covering the femoral artery and vein, and in forming the crural sheath; above the passage of the spermatic cord, the two planes of this fascia unite, and form a lining to the transversalis muscle, extending as far as the diaphragm. As the cord penetrates between these two planes, which form the internal ring, a thin layer of fascia unites it to the edge of each. No part of importance is situated between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the point at which the spermatic cord passes through the fascia transversalis ; but between the latter place and the pubes, the epigastric artery takes its course. This artery is situated from one-fourth to one-half an inch upon the inner side of the internal abdominal ring, or passage of the spermatic cord, from the abdomen, and it passes to the inner