ON HYDROCELE. 249 therefore, the trocar in the fore-part obliquely upwards, indeed j almost perpendicularly, to avoid wounding the testicle ; but as I have before shown you that the testicle occupies different situations in the tumour, you cannot introduce the trocar with safety until you have ascertained the precise spot where the testicle is lodged, and then you will of course take care to avoid it. Let me observe, | that whether you perform the operation for the palliative or curative treatment, withdraw the trocar the instant you believe that the canula is within the tunica vaginalis ; and once having the trocar ! in, take care to keep it there until the operation be concluded; and the most effectual way to do this is by grasping the tumour at the posterior part, so as to keep it tense where the trocar entered. I I generally use a trocar and canula of small size. Some persons recommend a lancet and probe to be employed; it is mere nonsense: | if they had ever performed the operation, they would not do so. Such suggestions can only emanate from people who are destitute of experience and knowledge. If you wish to accomplish this operation bloodlessly, to prevent internal bleeding, and the formation of haematocele, keep the patient, at the time you are doing it, in the erect position. There is no necessity for any after application ; on the following day the wound will be well. It requires repetition in proportion to the dropsical tendency existing in the person. In some it will be necessary once a month; in others, once in three months ; but, generally speaking, the usual time is every six months. Insignificant as this operation appears, it has been known to Not always cause the destruction of life. Two instances are within my own j^nger^ knowledge. One of the cases was operated upon by Mr. Green, who resides a few miles from town, and the other by myself. Mr. Green’s case was published in the journals, therefore I need not scruple to mention it; but Mr. Green possesses too much manliness to regard a notice of an unsuccessful case, and it must be a mean despicable mind that would. The case is as follows :—An elderly Case, man applied to Mr. Green with a hydrocele, which he a few days