OF THE INCISED WOUND. 170 Reproduction of parts. Muscle not reproduced. Parts nearly separated untie readily. Parts entirely separated will unite. with a suture and a cooling lotion, than with adhesive plaister. Indeed, adhesive plaister should not be applied to the edges of wounds. Often have I seen it produce erysipelas, and sometimes the erysipelas followed by the death of the patient. After the re- moval of a large tumour from the breast, I often employ a suture to keep the parts in exact contact, and to prevent the edges from becoming inverted. When the wound is healed, the parts wounded are generally re- produced. The cutis, and cuticle, easily; the rete mucosum, more slowly. The cellular membrane is for some time indurated, and requires the use and motion of the parts, to be completely evolved. A number of branches of arteries and veins are formed instead of the original trunks. Nerves are reproduced. Tendons are ■ also again formed. Bones are united by bone. But some parts are not reproduced. There is a specimen in the ■ collection at St. Thomas’s Hospital, in which a wound of a muscle is seen united by a tendinous structure. There is also a speci- men of a cartilage of a rib united by bone, but in young persons cartilage is reproduced. Parts which are nearly separated readily unite, as the finger or the nose when it has been cut, or torn, and a suture is required to aid its union. Parts entirely separated in other animals sometimes unite. Mr. Hunter removed the spur of a cock, and placed it in the comb by incision, where it not only adhered, but grew. He also re- * moved the testis of a cock, and placed it in the belly of a hen, where it adhered. A tooth extracted from the human subject, and placed in the comb of a cock, adheres there. The only instance in which I have seen a part removed entirely, and afterwards adhere, was in the following case:— I amputated a thumb for a patient in Guy’s Hospital; and, , finding that I had not preserved a sufficient quantity of skin to cover the stump, I cut out a piece from the thumb which I had re- j moved, and applied it upon the stump, confining it by strips of j