TREATMENT OF DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA. 109 ind in having but an imperfect covering from the cremaster, and a oerfect one from the fascia tvansversalis and tendon of the trans- j'ersalis united. The distinguishing marks between the direct and oblique in- guinal hernia, are the situation of the spermatic cord, and the di- rection of the tumour; in the first, the spermatic cord is on the mter and upper part of the swelling, and the swelling may be raced in a direction towards the umbilicus:—in the latter, the Spermatic cord is situated behind the hernia, and the inclination of he tumour is towards the spine of the ilium. The direct inguinal hernia may be produced suddenly from a aceration of the tendon of the transversalis, in which case the covering from this tendon will be found wanting, j A gentleman applied to me, having a direct inguinal hernia, which had appeared immediately after he had been thrown from his horse, and had fallen with the lower part of the abdomen upon a jpost, by which accident I imagine the tendon of the transversalis might have been ruptured. I have never seen this hernia acquire the size of the common in- guinal hernia, and in most of the cases I have witnessed, the pa- tients have had some disease of the urethra. In a patient of Mr. Weston’s, of Shoreditch, who had for a long !time laboured under difficulty in passing his urine, I found six herniae of this description, of which I have given a plate. I also found several strictures in his urethra, and a stone lodged behind one of them. TREATMENT OF DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA. When reducible, the truss employed should be longer than that applied for common inguinal hernia, as the part at which the hernia quits the abdomen is an inch and a half nearer to the pubes. The pad of the truss should not rest on the pubes, but press prin- cipally a little above the abdominal ring, otherwise the general form of the truss may be the same. Distinguishing marks. Causes. Case. Seldom becomes large. Case in which six herniae ex- isted. Truss.