WOUNDS OF THE HEART. 217 increased by a slight cough, with which he became affected only this morning, and which was unattended by any expectoration. His aperient draught was repeated, an emulsion ordered for his cough, and the antiphlogistic regimen strictly adhered to. Through- ! out the day he was walking about the ward, in very good spirits, quite jocular in his conversation with his fellow patients, and ex- pressed himself to them, that ‘ low diet would not do for him any longer.’ He retired to rest about nine o’clock, and fell asleep ; at eleven, he got out of bed to the commode, had an evacuation, by no means costive; said, ‘ he felt himself chilly, and a sensation that he should die ; ’ returned to bed, and expired immediately ; forty- nine hours from his receiving the wound. “ I examined the body on the following morning, in the presence of two other surgeons. On opening the chest, the pleura was found slightly inflamed for some distance round the puncture, and an effusion of adhesive matter, emitting a small portion of the lung to the wounded part; the lung was not injured. At least two quarts of blood were effused into the cavity of the chest; the pericardium was nearly filled with blood, and had a puncture through it, ex- tending three quarters of an inch into the muscular substance of the left ventricle, about two inches from its apex. A small coa- gulum was formed at the edge of the wound through the pericar- dium. “ Upon opening the left ventricle of the heart, it was discovered that the bayonet had penetrated the substance of the ventricle, and had cut one of the fleshy columns of the mitral valve. “ On a review of the case, I conceive it very curious, that an organ like the heart, possessing such excessive* irritability, a point to which the most interesting of our sympathies are referred, and which is in some degree influenced by the most trifling, should be so materially wounded, and yet the system take so little cognizance I of the injury. Death, in this case, it was perfectly evident, was not produced from any alarm excited in the system by the wound, but occurred as a secondary consequence, from the haemorrhage increasing to such an extent, as to interrupt the actions of the