124 ON CRURAL HERNIA. Psoas abscess. Inguinal liernia. Case. ing me, that the tumour had not the feel of a hernia, but that lie supposed it must be one from the symptoms. Upon examining the part, I found an enlarged gland, about the size of a walnut, very hard, and movable; but beneath this gland, and separate from it, was an elastic tumour, which I succeeded in reducing by the employment of the taxis; and this relieved the patient from all the symptoms of strangulation. Some of the symptoms attending psoas abscess resemble those of a femoral hernia, and might lead to mistake. Psoas abscess makes its appearance in the groin, in the same situation as a fe- moral hernia; it dilates when the patient coughs, and is less ap- parent when the person is in a recumbent posture than when he is erect. It may, however, be readily distinguished from hernia by the pain in the loins which precedes the appearance of the swell- ing, by the general constitutional derangement attending it, by its more rapid increase, and by the absence of intestinal derange- ment. The error of most consequence respecting femoral hernia, is, that of mistaking it for inguinal hernia. Danger arises under such circumstances, from the operation of the taxis, the direction to make pressure in the femoral being quite different from that proper in the inguinal; but the most serious mischief is likely to arise, if an operation be necessary, in the division of the stric- ture. I was once sent for to operate on a patient for a strangulated inguinal hernia, which, on examination, I found to be femoral, and succeeded in reducing it, by making the pressure in the proper direction; and I have known operations performed as for inguinal hernia, when the disease has been femoral. These mistakes arise from the femoral protrusion turning up over the crural arch or Poupart’s ligament; and much attention is often requisite in mak- ing an examination, before the surgeon can confidently decide on the true nature of the disease. The best marks of distinction which I have observed, are, that the neck of the femoral hernia is below and to the outer side of the spine of the pubes, while that