OF CONGENITAL HERNIA. 116 Called the windy rupture. Sometimes oc- curs at the adult period. Course. which afterwards becomes the tunica vaginalis; and it is usually found in the scrotum at the ninth month ; but there is considerable variety as to the period when the descent is complete, sometimes being earlier or later than the ninth month, sometimes one testicle comes down first, and the other does not descend until some time afterwards. In some cases, the testicles never quit the abdomen, and in others they only descend to the groin. When the testicle has reached the scrotum, the opening through which it quitted the abdomen generally closes, but at what period is not precisely ascertained. If, however, it should remain open at the time of birth, the efforts of the child in breathing or crying cause the protrusion of a small portion of intestine into the cavity, t and thus the congenital hernia is formed. From its appearance and feel, more particularly when the child cries, the nurses call it the windy rupture, in opposition to the I term watery rupture, which they apply to an hydrocele, when it occurs in the infant, and this is not very unfrequent. I have found the tunica vaginalis sufficiently open at the adult tt period to admit the introduction of a female catheter; and I have coi known hernia, similar to the true congenital form, occur in persons p between twenty and thirty years of age. In these cases I imagine the opening at first to have been so small as not to admit the de- <4i scent of a hernia under ordinary circumstances, but that when the patients have been under the necessity of doing very laborious work, or during a state of great relaxation, the protrusion has taken place. The congenital hernia must necessarily take the course of the spermatic cord, passing in the same direction as an oblique in- guinal hernia, from which it is to be distinguished by the following marks. In common oblique inguinal hernia, the testicle is per- fectly distinct from the hernial sac; whereas, in the congenital dis- ease, the testicle is confounded with the sac. In the latter case, also, the appearance of the part very much resembles that of a | hydrocele ; more especially if, as sometimes happens, a quantity of fluid descends into the sac with the intestine or omentum, which, l