GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF IIERNIA. The most fre- quent. Sex. Named from contents. Viscera most frequently found in them. Hernial sac. are formed of bone, at which hernia may not occur; for, when the formation of the muscles is defective, it may happen even at the loins, in which case the kidney has been known to he part of the protruding substance. But of all the varieties of this disease which I have enumerated, the inguinal, femoral, and umbilical lierniae most frequently occur. The difference in the structure and ceconomy of some parts of the abdominal parietes in the two sexes, renders the one sex disposed to that kind of hernia, from which the other is com- paratively exempt; thus the large size of the inguinal canal in men, causes inguinal hernia to be a very common disease among them ; whilst among females, it is but rarely met with ; and on the contrary, the proportions of the female pelvis and distention of the abdomen from pregnancy, together with other circumstances, dis- pose this sex to be the frequent subjects of crural and umbilical herniae, which may be regarded as uncommon diseases in man. The names that have been given to different kinds of hernia, have been derived from their contents, as well as their situations. If they contain only omentum, they are called omental hernia, or epiplocele; if only intestine, intestinal hernia, or enterocele; if both omentum and intestine, entero-epiplocele ; if the stomach is contained in the tumour, gasterocele; if the liver, hepatocele; if the bladder, cystocele, or hernia cystica; if the uterus, hystero- cele ; and the same of others ; for, excepting the duodenum and the pancreas, which are too closely connected with the spine easily to change their situation, all the different abdominal viscera have occasionally been found to form the contents of a hernial tumour. However, the viscera usually met with in hernia are the omen- tum, and the ileum ; the next in frequency is the colon, then the caecum, and lastly the jejunum ; sometimes the appendix caeci is the only part of the intestine found in the hernial sac. The cavity of the abdomen is every where lined by peritoneum, which in hernia generally protrudes prior to the descent of any viscus, and thus a bag or sac is formed by this membrane, in which the protruded viscera are afterwards contained. To this there are