316 OF THE TREATMENT OF THIS DISEASE. Case. Case. irritation by the application of a solution of nitrate of potash and muriate of ammonia, in a bladder. Bougies do not relieve it; but the ung: lyttse, used to produce a slight discharge from the beginning of the urethra, I have known of service. The following are the three cases in which I have operated for the removal of the testis on account of this affection. Mr. G contracted a gonorrhoea at Paris, in October 1815, and in consequence had inflammation of the right testicle, for which he applied fomentations and took aperient medicines: the testicle continued swelled and painful until June 1816, when the employment of strengthening plasters removed all inconvenience; a slight degree of pain returned at intervals until June 1817, when he was again relieved by plasters, and thought himself sufficiently well to join his , regiment. The exercise, which his duty obliged him to take, soon t occasioned so much pain, that during the winter of 1817 and spring | of 1818, he scarcely had a moment’s respite, but only used a blister, which he thought increased the tenderness. In May 1818, he r returned to England, and bathed in the sea till September, at which f time the pain Avas nearly removed, but he Avas unable to Avalk or j; ride. Since, he has not employed any remedy but nine weeks’ sea- j,si bathing at Brighton, which produced no amelioration: he Avas f, unable to walk ten yards Avithout experiencing considerable pain; i j, the only thing which appeared to relieve him Avas violent motion in j w a rough carriage. y On account of the continued pain, confinement, consequent | fl, depression of sprits, and loss of health, he determined on having the ! testicle extracted, Avhich I removed on the 1st of March 1819. I „ The Avound healed sloAvly, and one or tAVo small abscesses formed in f0 the scrotum, but he ultimately did extremely well. f i j| Captain P. had an irritable state of the left testis, Avhich commenced in March 1818. The vein of the spermatic cord felt I , distended; the part was exquisitely tender to the touch, and exercise produced pain, which Avas intolerable if the part Avas not supported: he could not rest on the left side, or bear the slightest pressure on the testis; he had increased pain in coitu, and after it the part