218 WOUNDS OF THE HEART. Case. heart and lungs. That the haemorrhage proceeded chiefly from the heart, must be admitted : there was no symptom whatever that indicated a wound of the lung; none could be found on the most deliberate examination ; and the intercostal artery was entirely free from injury.” The second case has been published in the “ Medical Records and Researches,” from which the following particulars have been ; taken. It occurred during the time that Dr. Babington was em- ployed as assistant surgeon at the Royal Hospital at Haslar, and by him the particulars were communicated:— “ Henry Thomas, a marine, was received into the hospital, from his Majesty’s ship Foudroyant, having a wound in his side. He had slipped from the gangway, where he had been placed as sen- tinel, to the deck below; and had fallen upon the point of his bayonet, which had penetrated his side a little below the false ribs, nearly in a perpendicular direction, as far as the hilt of the instru- ment. Immediately after the accident he drew out the bayonet without assistance, arose, took up bis musket, walked eight or ten steps, and then dropped down in a fainting state; from this state be soon recovered, and was taken to the hospital about two hours after the receipt of the injury; he then complained of but little pain, was inclined to sleep, and when roused appeared in great dis- tress. The wound was on the left side, about two inches above the ilium, and communicated with the cavity of the abdomen; but neither its direction nor depth could be ascertained. His body was cold, his pulse scarcely perceptible, but be had not apparently lost much blood. A portion of omentum, about 3ij in weight, pro- truded through the opening; this was cut off. A purgative enema was thrown up, which procured a motion, without any appearance of blood. He drank freely of coltsfoot tea, and took his medi- cines ; the fluids produced nausea and attempts to vomit, but he did not eject any thing from the stomach. The breathing was at first slow, but free ; by degrees it became more oppressed, and at length grew extremely quick and laborious, attended with a sense of weight on the right side of the thorax, which threatened suflo-