OF THE PHRENIC HERNIA. 162 Dissection. As these symptoms were unaccompanied witli any local swelling which indicated the existence of hernia, they were supposed to be produced by an inflammation of the intestines; but there were other symptoms that could not be attributed to this cause, which occasioned much obscurity with respect to the true nature of the complaint, and seemed to indicate a disease in the thorax. She was unable to lie on her right side, had a constant pain in the left, a cough, difficulty of breathing, attended with the same dragging sensation of which she had formerly complained. The signs of inflammation of the intestines, with the addition of a troublesome cough, continued without abatement for three days, when she expressed herself better in these respects; but the morbid symptom in the thorax remained as violent as at first: and in the fourth day from their commencement she expired. On examining the body after death, when the abdomen was opened, there appeared a very unusual disposition of the viscera. The stomach, and left lobe of the liver, were thrust from their natural situation towards the right side. On tracing the convolu- tions of the small intestines, they were found to retain their usual situation ; but lines of inflammation extended along such of their surfaces as lay in contact. This appearance the adhesive inflam- mation assumes in its early stage; and it is highly probable, that, if the approach of death had been less rapid, these surfaces of the intestines would have been glued together by the effusion of coagulated lymph. When the large intestines were examined, the great arch of the colon, instead of being stretched from one kidney to the other, was discovered to have escaped into the left cavity of the chest, through an aperture in the diaphragm. The ccecum and beginning of the colon were much distended with air, and appeared therefore larger than natural; but the colon, on the left side, as it de- scended toward the rectum, was smaller than it is commonly found. A small part only of the omentum could be discovered in the cavity of the abdomen, a considerable portion of it having been