ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION.—APPEARANCES. 53 mation—into the cellular membrane, for instance—a quantity of serum is found effused round the part, and in the part itself a yellow and semi-transparent substance, having the appearance of jelly, though widely different from it in composition. The best opportunity that you can have of witnessing the adhesive inflam- mation is on the skin under the irritation of a blister; the blister produces the same effects as those produced in the operation for hydrocele. Let a blister be applied for twenty-four hours, till the cuticle is raised: then make an incision into the vesicles, and a quantity of serum will escape. Here, perhaps, your observation may terminate; but examine the surface, and you will find on it a yellow substance, which will exist in a greater or less degree, according to the length of time the blister has been applied, also on its severity, and on the irritability of the skin; but, generally speaking, under the application of a blister, adhesive matter is thrown out as under adhesive inflammation. For those who are anxious to know the time required before the adhesive inflammation commences, it may be proper to state, that it is different according to the structure of the part and nature of the constitution. In the cavity of the abdomen, the intestines will be glued together in nineteen hours after the adhesive inflamma- tion has begun. Now I mention nineteen hours particularly, because I have seen it produced after that time in cases of gun- shot wounds. It may be in the recollection of some of you, that a Mr. Blight was shot by a man called Patch, in the neighbourhood of Deptford : the ball traversed the abdomen. I was called to this* case, and Mr. Blight died in nineteen hours after he had received the injury. Here I had an opportunity of seeing what I have just mentioned; the intestines were glued to each other, and to the peritoneum; the peritoneal surface had quantities of adhesive matter on it, and was firmly united to the surrounding intestines. On the surface of wounds, the process of adhesion takes place rapidly; for, if a piece of lint be applied to a newly-made wound, in twelve hours it will be glued to its surface ; in a dog, the adhesive process commences in six hours. Time required for the produc- tion of adhe- sion.