6 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. Physiology. The study of medicine ne- cessary to the surgeon. Physiological knowledge is of the utmost importance to the pro- fession of surgery: this gives you a knowledge of the healthy func- tions, and thus enables you better to understand the nature of dis- eased action. This was the rock on which Hunter stood, admired by the wise, and abused by the ignorant; indefatigable in his research, he omitted no opportunity of exploring false theories, and substituting true ones founded on facts established by experi- ments. But it is said that he was a man of great genius : I do not think so ; or, if he were, he owed it to his uncommon industry and assiduity. He was the last in the laboratory or study at night, and the first there in the morning, allowing himself very little time for repose. It was in this way he collected and arranged that Museum which will endure as long as any thing of the kind, the admiration of foreigners, as well as of our own countrymen. But we are still more indebted to him for the true principles of our science, which he displayed to us with a masterly hand. In this free country the same way is open to all who choose to take it, who prefer honourable and laborious exertion to idle habits, which insure ignorance, and, finally, disgrace. The study of medicine is important to the surgeon : he should be able to prescribe with certainty; should well understand the great influence of local disease on the constitution, as well as the origin of local disease from constitutional derangement. Without such knowledge, he knows but half his duty. On the other hand, a mere physician cannot be a good judge of surgical cases ; and notwithstanding my respect for the physicians of Guy’s Hospital, I would not hold my situation in that establishment, unless I had the right of prescribing for my surgical patients. I had, in one of these hospitals, a man under my care for a com- pound fracture, and had great hopes of saving the patient, as he was doing well; but a physician, whilst going through the ward, visited him, and ordered a cathartic, which, acting rather violently, disturbed him so much, that fatal consequences ensued. That a physician should not interfere with patients of this description is therefore evident; but I do not mean to say that one profession is