OF FISTULA IN ANO. 423 sphincter as it is withdrawn. If any portion of the sinus remain above the opening into the rectum, it should be divided with the probe-pointed scissors; one blade of which is passed into the extremity of the sinus, and the other into the rectum, and then, by shutting them, the sinus is divided. If the opening into the intestine be situated only a short distance from the anus, the end of the bistory may be first brought out at the anus, and the operation completed by pushing the knife forwards. The second state of the sinus is that in which the opening is Second state, only at the anus; and when the probe is passed into it, it is felt at i the extremity of the sinus, at some distance from the rectum. In this case, what I do is this: I pass the probe-pointed bistory Operation, i to the extremity of the sinus and my finger into the rectum. I | then, with the extremity of the finger and the finger-nail, move the , rectum upon the blade of the knife near its probed extremity, and sometimes move the knife a little at the same time. Thus, I easily make the knife divide the intermediate parts, and then bring its probed point into the rectum, when the operation is concluded as in the first case. I have known, in this instance, the division made by the sharp-pointed curved bistory; but the objection to it is, that its point rarely takes the course of the sinus: then a portion is left undivided. Savigny, an ingenious instrument maker, made a double bistory, with a pointed and a probed knife: the one sliding by the side of the other. When it was introduced the sharp-pointed bistory was thrust forward, and then retracted, and the probed bistory succeeded it; but the objection to this instrument was, that it was too large for its easy introduction into the sinus, and it is really quite unnecessary. The third state is, that where the sinus enters the rectum, and Third state, has no external opening. It is required, if the orifice cannot be felt by introducing the finger into the rectum, to wait until an accidental inflammation leads to the capacity of feeling a swelling externally, when a lancet should be put into it from the side of the