95 ON granulation. lower extremities. A great number of exfoliations took place in his legs; and he showed me a large box, in which the exfoliated portions of bone were contained. I recommended him to go into the country, and he went to Bath, where he staid for some time, and got rid of his paralysis. This case made a good deal of noise in town; and there were some surgeons who expressed a strong wish to prosecute the doctor. I recommended them, however, not to take any steps until I had seen the patient himself: and when he next came to me, I asked him whether he thought his legs improved, and whether he would again undergo the same operation, at a similar hazard of his'life, to have his legs made a little straighter? He replied that he would; and under these circum- stances I was of opinion that, as the young man was content, it was a folly to think of prosecuting the doctor. The patient, in this case, appeared to be as great a fool as the doctor whom he consulted, and deserved to be punished for his folly. I have no wish to injure individuals; and I shall not, therefore, mention the name of the operator. Some time has elapsed since the case occurred, and the transaction is now almost buried in oblivion. One of the parties is since dead; not the person, however, who underwent the operation, for he still lives, and is proud of his improved legs; and the doctor lives also, and is well known to most of you, at least by name. Opium,- when applied to the surfaces of sores, is very readily Application of opium. absorbed into the system. I believe that it is often a very useful application to the surfaces of sores. I mentioned, on another occasion, a case in which a tetanic affection was produced in a child, whose leg had been amputated by Mr. Lucas, the present surgeon of Guy’s, and where the application of opium to the stump gave more immediate relief than I ever remember to have witnessed. It relieved the spasms, and, as I believe, saved the child. If opium, applied to the surface of sores, be absorbed into the system, it produces excessive costiveness, extreme pain in the head, and torpor of the system, which is only to be removed by the frequent administration of active purgatives. The effects on the constitution,