422 DISLOCATIONS OF THE OS HUMERI. Causes of dislo- cation into the axilla. Frequency of its recurrence. Means employed for reduction. portions of bone, which appear to be of new formation, as no portion of the scapula or humerus is broken ; a new cavity is i formed for the head of the os humeri on the inferior costa of the scapula, but this is glenoid, like that from which the os humeri had escaped. The common causes of dislocation of the os humeri into the ) axilla are, falls upon the hand while the arm is raised above ] an horizontal line, by which the head of the bone is thrown down- I wards ; also a fall upon the elbow, when the arm is raised from s the side : but the most frequent cause is a fall directly upon the I shoulder on some uneven surface, by which the head of the bone is driven downwards, whilst the muscles are but ill prepared to resist the shock. When the arm has been once dislocated, if great care be not taken of the limb after its reduction, it is extremely liable to a recurrence of the accident. I remember, particularly, a carpen- ter, who used to be a frequent visitor at Guy’s Hospital for several I years, for the purpose of having his shoulder reduced. Slighter causes than that which originally produced it, will renew the dislo- } cation; I have known it to recur from the act of throwing up the sash of a window. During my apprenticeship at St. Thomas’s Hospital, in going through the wards early one morning, I was directed to see a man who had just dislocated his shoulder, which he had frequently done before, as he was lying in bed; and upon inquiring how it had happened, the man replied, that it occurred merely in the effort of rubbing his eyes and stretching himself upon waking; but this disposition to the recurrence of dislocation may be prevented, by directing that the arm be kept fixed close to the side, and the shoulder rather elevated by a pad in the axilla, for three weeks after its reduction ; during which time the rup- tured tendon of the subscapularis, and the capsular ligament will be united : a process which motion greatly impedes, if not wholly prevents. REDUCTION OF THE DISLOCATION IN THE AXILLA. Various have been the means suggested for the reduction of the