304 OF THE TREATMENT OF THIS DISEASE. Deranged state of con- stitution. Medicines of no service. the lancet, which immediately informs the surgeon of the true form of the complaint. It does no mischief in the cases which it cannot relieve, and without it the surgeon’s reputation is endangered, if he gives a rash opinion upon the nature of the disease. OF THE CAUSE OF THIS DISEASE. This disease arises from a defective state of the constitution : it generally occurs in persons naturally feeble, and in those who are irritable, both in body and mind. They are subject to slight feverish attacks, to irregular secretions, to defective digestion ; the former producing new and disordered actions ; the latter leading to an unhealthy state of blood in which the quantity of serum is large, and the fibrous part of the blood small in quantity, and loose in texture. But independent of the state of constitution, there is also an altered local action : if the parts inflamed from this disease are cut into, a fungous structure will be produced from the wound ; but if the contaminated parts are entirely removed, the wound heals as any other wound in the body without any such morbid appearance. OF THE TREATMENT OF THIS DISEASE. No medicine has been yet discovered which has any influence over this disease, when it has been once formed. The common remedies used for the preservation of the general health may, by improving the constitution, lessen or prevent the tendency to the disease ; but no medicine has any influence upon it when the local disease has once appeared. The pil: hydr: submuriatis composita given at night, and infus: cascarillse, soda, rhubarb, and ammonia, given bis die,or hyd. e creta, soda, and rhubarb, are the best medicines to improve the constitution ; yet we ought to look further, to try to discover, amidst the numerous new articles which chemistry and the extension of botanical knowledge have given, if some specific remedy cannot be discovered for this disease. The local remedies