126 ON GANGRENE. Separation of nerves. Separation of arteries. First case of amputation. Separation of bones. The nerves separate, like muscles, opposite the skin. But the most extraordinary instance of the process of separation is that which takes place with respect to the larger blood-vessels. What would be the result, if you were to separate with the knife the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, without placing a tourniquet on the limb ? The person would die in a few minutes. Yet nature cuts through these vessels, and frequently divides the arteries I have mentioned, without a drop of blood issuing from the limb. This happens in the following manner:—the blood in the vessels of the dead part becomes coagulated ; the coagulum, however, does not confine itself to the dead part, but extends to the living vessels which join it, and is, in this manner, glued to the inner side of the artery, so that the vessels are, as it were, hermetically sealed; and not a drop of blood can escape by the side of the coagulum. The same thing takes place in veins, the coagulum adhering to the inner side of the living vein, so that no blood can escape. If you amputate a limb at a considerable distance from the part at which gangrene has commenced, you will still find the vessels sealed. The first amputation which I ever performed, was in the case of a gentleman who had a gangrenous ulcer near the head of the tibia. In this case it was necessary to amputate above the knee, as sufficient skin would not have been left if the amputation had been performed below. When I loosened the tourniquet, I was surprised to find no femoral artery. On a closer examination, I found that the inner side of the femoral artery was completely plugged up, and sealed by the coagulum, which had extended at least six inches above the place at which the gangrene had occurred; it appears, therefore, that the artery is not only sealed at the place at which nature cuts through it, but at a considerable distance above it, in order to provide against the danger which would arise from a separation of the coagulum. Bones, at last, become separated; but this process is very slow; and it is a long time before they exfoliate, loaded as they are with phosphate of lime. Hence we are often under the necessity of taking away bones, when the process of separation is in other