ON HYDROCELE. 241 comparatively); when you lift it, you will be astonished at its Diagnosis, lightness, which will at once convince you that it is not a solid substance. The next thing1 you notice is, if the part be not very much distended, that the swelling will be moveable, e., if you firmly grasp it at its base, the fluid will ascend, and the tumour increase at its upper part; therefore, its lightness, mobility, form, freeness from pain, and the history of the case, constitute its distinguishing characters from other diseases. But there are two other remarks by which the disease may be known, one of them decisive and the other nearly so: these are, first, its sense of fluctuation; and, second, its transparency. I have just told you, that if you press upon the lower part of the swelling, it would decrease there and increase at the upper part, fluctuation at this time becomes evident to those who are accustomed to such examinations. Its transparency, or rather its semi-transparency, may be discovered in the manner I shall presently explain to you. This characteristic feature has been denied; I have certainly seen the tunica vaginalis so much thickened in very old cases of hydrocele, and in persons who had long resided in hot climates, that the examination required nicety and caution; but still a little art, as I shall presently explain to you, will enable the surgeon to form a correct diagnosis. Well, then, such are the common marks by which you distinguish Varieties of • # Hydrocele, hydrocele; but there are other varieties, and these I will mention to you ; first, the water of hydrocele sometimes forms two swellings. I have before told you that the shape of the tumour is usually pyriform, and that the water gradually rises till it arrives at the abdominal ring; now, in this variety of two swellings, a portion of the water collects above the ring, giving rise to a tumour there; thus a swelling is formed above and below, the narrowest part being at the ring. A surgeon unacquainted with this circumstance, upon looking at May be con- such a case would say, “ Oh ! this is not hydrocele, but hernia,” 1°^"^ Wlt*1 and he would be strengthened in that opinion by seeing the upper part dilate upon coughing, in consequence of the impulse that it R