58 OF THE REDUCIBLE INGUINAL HERNIA, Effect of wear- ing a truss. Manner of mea- suring for a truss. Position of the pad. Double trusses. scent into the same cavity. If the pressure be long continued, adhesion takes place at the origin of the sac, and interrupts the communication between the abdomen and the cavity of the sac, which being no longer distended by the descent of any viscus con- tracts in dimensions, and at length becomes entirely obliterated. When a hernia has been returned by the surgeon into the abdo- men, he should lay his fingers obliquely above, and to the iliac side of the ring, and direct his patient to cough, and the furthest part from the ring towards the spine of the ilium where the hernial sac is felt to protrude, is the point which should be noted for the ap- plication of the pad of the truss, and the instrument made accord- ingly- Measurement is taken for making the truss by laying one end of a piece of string upon the spot, and carrying the other round the pelvis, midway between the trochanter major and the spine of the ilium, till it meets the fixed point at first determined, and com- pletes the circle. This will be the proper length for the truss. In the above manner I have been in the habit of measuring persons for trusses, excepting when the hips projected unusually, then it is advisable to substitute for the string a piece of iron wire, which, by retaining the precise outline of the patient’s hip, serves as a necessary direction for the instrument maker to copy. It will be found that the pad of the truss must be applied pro- portionally nearer to the abdominal ring in large than in small hernia. When the protrusion is small, the pad may be fixed mid- way between the symphysis pubis and the spine of the ilium; but as the dimensions of the hernia increase, the mouth of the sac moves gradually nearer the abdominal ring, and the artificial pres- sure must, in some degree, be regulated accordingly; always re- membering, however, that the truss should never be brought on the pelvis, as the pressure on the outer and upper part of the ring will still be sufficient to keep the viscera within the abdomen. It happens frequently that hernia appears on both sides of the body. When this takes place, a double truss, or one with two pads and springs must be worn, made of materials similar to the