DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. 259 cases occurred at Guy’s, and the other at St. Thomas’s Hospital, at the time when these gentlemen were officiating as dressers. The effect of opium I have never tried, but it would probably Opium, be useful in a large dose, from its power of diminishing muscular and nervous influence. The reduction of the bone is to be attempted, after lessening the Mechanical power of the muscles, by fixing one bone, and drawing the other | towards its socket. It is now generally agreed among the most eminent surgeons, that force should be only gradually applied; for violence is as likely to tear sound parts, as to reduce those which are luxated; and it is apt to excite all the powers of resistance to oppose the efforts of the surgeon. Hence it becomes necessary to produce, gradually, that state of fatigue and relaxation which is sure to follow continued extension, and not to attempt at once to overpower the action of the muscles. One great cause of failure in the attempt to reduce dislocations, Cause of failure, arises from insufficient attention to the fixation of that bone in which the socket is placed. For example: in attempting to reduce a dislocation of the shoulder, if the scapula be not fixed, or if one person pull at the scapula and two at the arm, the scapula will be hecessarily drawn with the os humeri, and the extension will be Ivery imperfectly made; the one bone, therefore, must be firmly 'fixed, or drawn in the opposite direction, while the other is ex- ended. The force required may be applied either by the exertion of Compound issistants, or by a compound pulley; but the object is to extend p i" ' he muscles by gradual, regular, and continued efforts ; in cases of lifficulty recourse should always be had to the pulley; its effect nay be gentle, continued, and directed by the surgeon’s mind; out when assistants are employed, their exertions are sudden, biolent, and often ill directed; and the force is more likely to pro- luce laceration of parts, than to restore the bone to its situation. Their efforts are also frequently uncombined, and their muscles as lecessarily become fatigued as those of the patient, whose resist- ance they are employed to subdue. I . s 2