DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. 3GC Symptoms. Dissection. outer side in the bent position, with the foot well supported; a many-tailed bandage is to be placed over the part to prevent it from slipping, and this is to be kept wet with an evaporating lotion. Two splints are then to be applied ; and each is to have a foot-piece, to give support to the foot, prevent its eversion, and preserve it at right angles with the leg. If much inflammation succeeds, leeches are to be applied to the parts, and the constitu- tion will require relief by taking blood from the arm, and by at- tention to the bowels; but I shall say no more on this subject until I describe compound dislocation of this joint. A person who has sustained this accident may be removed from his bed in five or six weeks, long straps of plaster being passed around the joint to keep the parts together, and he may be suffered to walk on crutches; but from ten to twelve weeks will elapse before he has the perfect motion of the foot; and much friction and passive mo- tion will be required after the eighth week to restore the natural motion of the joint. SIMPLE DISLOCATION OF THE TIBIA FORWARDS. In this accident, the foot appears much shortened and fixed, the heel is proportionally lengthened and firmly fixed, and the toes are pointed downwards. The lower extremity of the tibia forms a hard projection upon the upper part of the middle of the tarsus, under the projected tendons, and a depression is situated before the tendon Achillis. On dissection, the tibia is found to rest upon the upper surface of the os naviculare and os cuneiforme internum; quitting all the articulatory surface of the astragalus, excepting a small portion on its fore part, against which the tibia is applied. The fibula is broken, and its fractured end advances with the tibia, and is placed by its side: its malleolus externus remains in its natural situation, but the fibula is broken about three inches above it. The capsular ligament is torn through on its fore part. The deltoid ligament is only partially lacerated, and the three liga- ments of the fibula remain unbroken. This accident arises from a fall of the body backwards whilst the foot is confined, or from that Cause.