164 OF THE PHRENIC HERNIA. From laceration. Case. Dissection. the life of the patient, but little could be done for her relief; no more, than, perhaps, her own feelings would dictate, the refraining from all kinds of bodily exertion. The third cause of this form of hernia is a wound, or laceration of the diaphragm, and the former inflicted with the small sword, lias been the most frequent. The opening is at first prevented from closing, by the pressure of the abdominal viscera, which fre- quently protrude through it, in small quantity at first; but at length, should the patient survive, very large portions escape. The only instance in which I have known this disease produced by accident, has been from laceration of the diaphragm, in con- sequence of the fracture of several of the ribs. William Rattley, aged thirty, was admitted into Guy’s Hospital. About one o’clock on February 5, 1804, having fallen from the height of about thirty-six feet, by which six of the lower ribs on the right side were fractured. When admitted, he breathed with great difficulty, and complained of excessive pain; the crepitus from the fractured ribs could be distinctly felt, and there was slight emphysema. Soon after his admission, he vomited violently, had frequent hiccough, and expired about eight o’clock on the following morning. The following appearances presented themselves on inspecting the body after death. A small wound at the inferior and pos- terior part of the right lung, with some slight but recent adhesions between the two portions of pleura. On pressing down the dia- phragm, a portion of intestine was discovered in the cavity of the chest on the right side, of a livid colour. On examining the cavity of the abdomen, this fold of intestine proved to be a part of the ilium, which passed upwards behind the liver, through the lacerated opening in the diaphragm, into the chest. The aperture in the diaphragm was situated about two inches from the cordi- form tendon on the right side, in the muscular structure; it was filled by the intestine, which was confined by a firm stricture. The laceration had been occasioned by the fractured end of the