ON IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA. GG Irreducible from hour-glass con- traction. Irreducible from adhesion. Treatment of irreducible hernia. sac collapse and adhere together. However, while the adhesions are | still recent, a fresh descent takes place from the abdomen, and the hernial contents again disunite the surfaces of the sac everywhere, except at the points of union of these inflamed parts, the cementing lymph of which, instead of bursting asunder elongates with the fresh pressure, and forms those membranous bands which are seen passing from one side of the sac to the other. Between these the intestine and omentum get entangled, a circumstance which adds so much to the difficulty of reduction, as to make it, in ge- neral, considered as impracticable; but unless the hernial contents themselves adhere, there appears no reason why the means already pointed out may not here also prove successful. After all there is scarcely a possibility of detecting by the feel this variety of the disease in the living subject. They also become irreducible, though rarely, from a contraction in the sac, which I have seen take place in its middle, so as to pro- duce an hour-glass appearance, and a portion of omentum has been confined below and above the contracted part. Herniae are irreducible from adhesion having taken place be- tween the contents of the tumour and the sides of the sac; they are sometimes universal, but more commonly partial; they exist most frequently at the lower part of the sac, but sometimes at its mouth only, and must remain unreturned for the rest of life, unless it be expedient or necessary to undertake an operation. The cases in which such an operation may be proper and necessary will be mentioned in a future place. All that can be done in an irreducible intestinal rupture is, to apply a bag truss of the size of the tumour, which, by affording a constant pressure, will check the increase of the disease. But if the hernia be omental only, its increase and the subsequent de- scent of the intestine may be safely prevented by a spring truss. There is so much difficulty, however, in these instances, in the living subject, in determining the precise nature of the hernia, and deciding whether or not some small convolution of intestine may be descended, that the spring truss should only be fixed after the