OF THE OBLIQUE 46 Appears at the external ring. Increases more rapidly. Dissection of the hernia. Usual contents of the sac. canal it is about two inches in length, and is covered anteriorly by the superficial fascia of the external oblique muscle and by the tendon of that muscle, the inferior edges of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles form an arch over it; the cremaster muscle covers it partially; it has a thin slender covering from the edge of the internal ring; the fascia transversalis, strengthened by the tendon of the transversalis, is situated behind it, and to its inner side ; and Poupart’s ligament is placed below it. Having descended through the inguinal canal, it next emerges at the external abdominal ring, and it is then usually denominated scrotal hernia. Its increase being then much less restrained than before, it descends on the fore part of the spermatic cord to the testicle, at the upper part of which it usually terminates. Upon dissecting this hernia below the external ring, there is found covering it; — first, the fascia of the spermatic cord, de- rived from the external oblique tendon and the edge of the ab- dominal ring; this substance is dense, and forms a strong cover- ing, which has often been mistaken for the hernial sac; when this has been divided, the cremaster muscle becomes exposed, cover- ing the fore and lateral parts of the hernial sac. The cremaster muscle is thicker than the fascia of the cord, and its muscular texture is easily distinguished in the living body. On cutting through this muscle, and a dense cellular tissue, the hernial sac is laid bare, united on the fore part to the cremaster muscle, and on the posterior part to the spermatic cord, resting below upon the tunica vaginalis of the testicle. The usual contents of the hernia are either intestine or omen- tum ; if the former, it is called enterocele; if the latter, it is de- nominated omental, or epiplocele. In the young, omental hernia is rarely met with, it being generally intestinal, for this obvious reason, that the omentum in the young subject covers only the superior abdominal viscera.