VESICAL HERNIA. 156 was still concealed. I then threw air in by the urethra, in order to inflate the bladder; and immediately the bladder began to swell, not only in the pelvis, but also in the scrotum behind the hernial sac, until it became as large nearly as an ostrich’s egg. The bladder was situated behind the peritoneal sac, to the pos- terior part of which the anterior surface of the viscus closely ad- hered ; posteriorly, it was connected by cellular membrane to the scrotum, and to the tunica vaginalis of the cord. On tracing it upwards, it was found to ascend through the external abdominal ring into the inguinal canal, where it maintained the same relative situation to the cremaster and spermatic vessels as in the scrotum; it thence descended through the internal abdominal ring into the pelvis. It is almost needless to observe, that both rings, especially the inner ring, were much dilated. Its form, viewed anteriorly, resem- bled this outline. This disease has its origin in a relaxed state of the bladder, and the protrusion is also probably favoured by neglect in re- gularly evacuating the bladder when re- quired. The bladder thus becomes dis- tended laterally, and spreads so as to occupy the lower part of the abdomen, and then reaches the inner abdominal aperture of the in- guinal canal, through which it becomes forced by the weight and pressure of the superincumbent abdominal viscera, and the action of the abdominal muscles, diaphragm, and pyramidales. The following is the explanation of the peculiar peritoneal connexion which attends the vesical hernia. As the anterior and lateral parts of the bladder are in some degree devoid of peritoneal covering, the bladder at first enters the inguinal canal without bringing that membrane with it; but as soon as the fundus begins to descend, the peritoneum accompanies it; and with the sac thus formed, intestine and omentum afterwards produce the triple de- scent, of bladder behind the peritoneum, of intestine and omentum