OF DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA. 108 First observed by Mr. Cline. Course of. Diflers from the oblique hernia. ever, proved to be the tunica vaginalis, which had formerly beei distended by the hydrocele, having the hernia seated behind ii The posterior part of this tunic was then cut through, exposin the hernial sac, which was found to contain a portion of intestin nearly of a black colour, from strangulation. The stricture whic was seated at the mouth of the sac was divided in the usual man ner, and the intestine returned. The patient did well. Mi Henry Cline had occasion to operate upon a similar case. OF DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA. Sometimes a hernia protrudes nearer to the pubes than that have just described, descending from the abdomen immediate! behind the external abdominal ring, and having the epigastric ar tery situated on its outer side. Mr. Cline first observed this species of hernia, in opening tli body of a Chelsea pensioner, with Mr. Adair Hawkins, on the 6tl of May, 1777. The hernia was on the right side, and the moutl of the hernial sac was situated an inch and a half on the inner sid> of the epigastric artery. I have myself witnessed several cases o this description. I have carefully dissected this hernia, and found that it passei on the inner side of the epigastric artery, and protruded througl the external abdominal ring, under the fascia of the cord, pushinj the spermatic cord to the outer and upper part of the tumor. 1 1 traced a covering upon it, formed in part by the tendon of th< transversalis muscle, and in part by the fascia transversalis; be' neath which is situated the hernial sac. The coverings of thi; hernia are, therefore, the integument, the fascia of the cord, i 1 part of the cremaster crossing obliquely the outer part of the swelling, then the fascia and tendon of the transversalis. It differs from the oblique inguinal hernia in not taking the course of the inguinal canal, but in protruding directly through the external ring, and having the epigastric artery to its outer side