.'314 l’RACTURES OF TIIE UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. Want of ossific union not pecu- liar to the femur. All nature’s ef- forts at ossific union end in cal- lus or ligament. Structure of the bone. says, “ I have examined very attentively these two preparations, and cannot perceive one decisive proof in either, of the hones having been actually fractured." This circumstance of want of ossific union, is not peculiar to the neck of the femur, as will be seen in our account of fracture of the condyles of the os humeri, of the coronoid process of the ulna, and of bones generally, when seated within the capsular ligament. It appears then, as a general principle, from the account which I have given of the dissection of those whose bodies have been ex- amined after having suffered from this fracture, that ossific union > is not produced ; that nature makes slight attempts for its produc- tion upon the neck of the bone, and upon the trochanter major, but scarcely any upon the head of the bone : and that if union be produced, it is by means of ligament. ( Mr. Stanley, for whom, both as an anatomist and surgeon, I have L0 great respect, has met with the appearance of fracture in the neckl® of each thigh-bone, in the same subject. I do not mean to deny -jj the possibility of the necks of both thigh-bones in this subject hav- ing been fractured, because that point can only be determined by dL the history of the accident, and by a very careful and accurate ex- >L animation of several sections of the bones; but I can shew that L similar effects are produced by disease. I , L The neck of the thigh-bone in adult persons of middle age, has (i a close cancellated structure, with considerable thickness of the shell which covers it; but in old subjects, the cancellated struc- L ture of the shaft of the bone, which is formed of a coarse L net-work, loaded with adipose matter, is often extended into the neck of the bone, and the shell which covers it becomes so thin, L that when a section is made through the middle of the head t and cervix it is found diaphonous: of this I have several spe- cimens. As the shell becomes thin, ossific matter is deposited on p the upper side of the cervix, opposite the edge of the acetabulum, and often a similar portion at its lower part, and thus the strength of the bone is in some degree preserved: this state may be