267 OF THE TUNICA ALBUGINEA TESTIS. i abdomen; and its nerves are in part derived from the spermatic plexus, and in part from a branch of the external spermatic. It possesses considerable sensibility, and, irritation of it produces sickness. In the healthy state, when opened, no fluid is found in it; but a vapour arises, and it becomes dry. When the tunica vaginalis reflexa is opened, the cavity which is | situated between it and the tunica vaginalis testis, is exposed; and i through the latter membrane, which is semi-transparent, the tunica albuginea testis appears. The general form of the testis and epidi- Epididymis, dymis may be observed, the latter being placed upon the upper I posterior, and outer part of the testis ; beside which a little vascular membranous body is also seen upon the anterior extremity of the j caput epididymis. OF THE TESTIS. This organ is oviform, and its largest extremity is placed Testis, upwards and forwards. It is situated obliquely, being neither horizontal nor perpendicular, but in the diagonal of the two. It is divided into anterior and superior, posterior and inferior extremity ; into anterior and inferior, posterior and superior edge ; and into its two lateral surfaces. Its anterior edge is most rounded; the posterior least so; the two sides are convex, although flatter than the anterior edge. At the posterior edge the spermatic vessels enter, and this part is devoid of the tunica vaginalis. The upper extremity of the testis is capped by the epididymis. The axes of the testis are three: the longest is two inches in a healthy well-formed testis, and it passes from the anterior and upper extremity to the posterior and lower. The second axis is one inch and a half, and it passes from the posterior superior, to the anterior and inferior edge; whilst the third, or transverse diameter, passing from side to side, is one inch and one-eighth in length. The weight of a healthy testis and epididymis is about an ounce. OF THE TUNICA ALBUGINEA TESTIS. This strong fibrous membrane forms a complete covering to the ^inea teshs*