ON ULCERATION. 74 Parts newly formed prone to ulceration. Example. Lord Anson’s voyage. Those parts of the body which are newly formed, are more liable to be absorbed than those which have long existed. A part covered by a cicatrix proceeds rapidly to ulceration, because it is more weakly constituted than those parts which have existed longer. The irritability of a part is proportional to its weakness; and the parts which are weak and irritable, fall most readily into the ulcerative process. To take a familiar illustration—when a child labours under symptoms of constitutional derangement in cutting a tooth, why do you lance its gums? You cut the gums, not for the purpose of making an immediate passage for the tooth, and procuring immediate relief to’the child; but because, when the gum by the adhesive process heals upon the divided part, a cicatrix is produced by this little operation, which is very readily absorbed; and the result is, that when the tooth rises, the child cuts it with much less pain and irritation than it would otherwise have done. If a man have inflammation in his leg, and this falls near a place where ulceration previously existed, the scar produced by the old ulcer gives way much more readily than the original skin. I have observed that, if a patient under gonorrhoea, has had an abscess in the urethra, which will now and then happen in consequence of suppuration of the lacunae, or if from the same cause he has had an abscess in the scrotum, or on the side of the penis, if he should get a second gonorrhoea, he will be sure to be attacked with a similar abscess. Proceed with as much care as you may—guard against inflammation with all possible caution—and yet, if he has abscess in the first gonorrhoea, it will infallibly return in the same part, if he get a second. One of the most remarkable instances of the readiness with which the process of absorption attacks newly-formed parts, may be seen in Lord Anson's Voyage round the World—a work which, I doubt not, is generally known to you. It is a most able and enter- taining publication; and if any student has not read it, I can strongly recommend it to his perusal: for, while professional know- ledge should undoubtedly be the first object of your pursuit, general literature should not be neglected, and is so far from being incom- patible with that primary object, that it cannot fail to enlarge your