68 STRANGULATED HERNIA. can be obtained, except from the portion of intestine below the strangulation by means of glysters. The pulse is quick, and at the beginning of the complaint, hard. If effectual relief be not ob- tained, the tumour becomes red and painful, and when handled, the mark of each finger is left in a white hollow impression, as occurs on pressure of a dropsical limb. This indicates an effusion of fluid into the cellular membrane covering the hernial sac, produced by the continuance of the inflammation. The abdomen now becomes slightly tense and sore upon pressure, the vomiting very frequent, and the whole body is bedewed with sweat. The constipation remains obstinate, and instead of eruc- tation, hiccough comes on, whilst the countenance shews great anxiety, and the pulse now becomes extremely small and thready, so as to lead those unaccustomed to the disease, to think the patient dying. These symptoms, however, are subject to exacerbations: they are for a time very violent, and described by the patient as spasmodic, after which the patient becomes com- paratively easy, so that the surgeon is flattered with hopes that the means he has employed have been successful, till the symp- toms again return with more than their former severity. After having suffered acute pain throughout the first stage of the 1 complaint, the patient becomes suddenly easy, and expresses great satisfaction at this change. The tumour, which still continues, generally assumes a purple or leaden colour, and gives a crackling feel owing to air being contained within the cellular membrane. The abdomen becomes more tense, the hiccough more violent, a cold sweat covers the body, and the pulse, though now fuller and softer than before, if attended to for a little time, is found to be intermittent; but still the patient remains perfectly sensible, and generally continues full of hopes till death, which now speedily puts an end to the complaint. So remarkably strong is this delu- sive feeling of amendment, that I have known a patient at this ex- tremity insist upon rising and expire in the very act: and another who sat up in bed, called for something to drink, and died as he was putting it to his lips.