137 TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. carbonate of ammonia, with twenty drops, or half a drachm, of the tincture of opium, should be taken two or three times a-day, or even more frequently, as once every four hours. This plan will generally prevent the extension of gangrene. Bark was formerly extolled, as possessing great virtue in cases of gangrene; but it is doubtful whether it does not do as much harm as good. For the first two or three days the patient feels comfortable, and his health is improved by its exhibition; but, after a short time, his stomach becomes loaded and oppressed. It first makes him costive, and then purges; and, after a little time, we are obliged to suspend its use. I am much disposed to try, in these cases, the new form of this medicine, which agrees so well with the stomach; I allude to the sulphate of quinine. It is my intention to give it a full trial, in Quinine, the first case of gangrene which I meet with ; and I recommend you to try it yourselves in the cases of gangrene which may come under your observation. An excellent medicine used in the other hospital, is a bolus of five grains of the carbonate of ammonia, with Ammonia and ten grains of musk, given every four hours. I have seen this Ub ' medicine produce the best effects in sloughing sores in the foul wards, and in gangrenous sores, where the gangrene was much disposed to spread. The musk has the effect of keeping up the stimulus of the ammonia, which is apt to subside after a few hours, when the ammonia is exhibited alone. A port wine poultice is an admirable application in these cases. I mentioned to you, a few days ago, the case of a girl in the other hospital, who had a gan- I grenous sore in the pudendum, where a great variety of applications had been tried, without any beneficial result. At last a port wine Port-wine, poultice was applied, and with such immediate good effects, that, though I had before despaired of her life, the last time I saw her the sore was brought into such a healthy state, that there are great hopes entertained of her recovery. Applications of turpentine are often of use in these cases, for the Turpentine, purpose of stimulating the parts. After great want of circulation in any part, from the course of the blood having been arrested, sloughing sores are very apt to occur. Thus, after the operation