OF WOUNDS OF JOINTS. Treatment. by granulation, when a partial or general ossific anchylosis is the result. All these effects may be prevented by an intelligent surgeon. When called to treat a wound of from one to two inches extent into the knee joint, he will, with a fine needle and thread, passed through the skin only, (avoiding the ligaments,) bring the edges of the external wound together; for a wound in the joint is different to most others, as the synovia has a constant tendency to force a passage outwards, and it is more abundantly secreted than usual, so that adhesive plaister is apt to be separated, and union pre- vented; he will apply, therefore, lint dipped in blood over the surface of the wound, and place the plaister over it; then cover the surface of the knee with soft linen, dipped into a lotion of the liquor : plumbi subacet: and spirit. Afterwards he will place a splint behind the limb to prevent all motion of the injured joint, and enjoin positive rest. Purgatives should be as much as possible avoided, and a rigid abstinence enforced. In eight days, the threads may be cut and drawn away, but the adhesive plaister and lotion should be con- tinued. Three weeks should elapse before the patient be allowed to quit the bed. If inflammation follow a wound into a joint, leeches and an evaporating lotion must be employed; and if it run high, the patient should be bled freely from the arm. If suppuration be produced, fomentations and poultices are re- quired locally; liquor : ammoniae acet: and opium internally. A fungous granulation forms at the wound, which must not be disturbed, as it is formed by nature to close the aperture ; fresh irritation is produced by disturbing it. When a limb is stiff from inflammation and adhesion, early motion of the joint is required, and its use may generally be restored. A joint thus circumstanced is not injured, but benefited by motion, whilst in a chronic or scrofulous inflammation of a joint, rest is most essential to its cure. In this case, therefore, a