43 LOCAL TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. and if he were not removed, lie would absolutely die, so extensive is the exhaustion that it occasions. Here, then, is direct proof of what heat and moisture can do, when they are applied generally; and, when used locally, their action on the part is precisely the , same. Fomentations are ordered precisely with the same view, viz. to Fomentation restore the secretions of the part, by which the tension of the vessels is removed, and the pain much abated. Fomentations occa- sionally are medicated, being composed of camomile flowers, poppy- heads, &c.,but I do not consider that these possess any advantage over mere water, at least where the surface of the skin is unbroken. Poultices are likewise used upon the same principle; the kind of pouitices. poultice is of little consequence, provided, as in the preceding case, the skin be entire. The next method of relieving1 inflammation is by the application Leeches, of leeches, which relieve upon the same principle as poultices and fomentations, viz. by abstracting from the part a portion of its fluids, and consequently lessening the pain and tension: after the leeches drop off, the bleeding must be encouraged; this may be done by bathing the part with warm water, and wiping it frequently with a warm sponge. To some persons, and in some situations, however, the appli- Where . , . . Leeches are cation ot leeches is attended with very great inconvenience; as inconvenient. occasionally, for example, in inflammation of the testicles. We do not find this an inconvenience in the hospitals; but frequently, in private practice, we see persons in whom it is of the greatest consequence that a bleeding from these parts should be concealed. Now, as there is much mess, trouble, and consequent exposure, from an application of leeches, what we do in such cases is this: we request the person to stand before us, and, with a lancet, puncture some of the small veins on the front of the scrotum; in this manner, and with a little warm water, you abstract any portion of blood you wish; and what is of very great consequence, you stop it when you please; for, by placing the patient in a recumbent posture, and by applying some cold water to tlie punctures, the