INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 4 Case of Mal- practice. Abraham and the Dresser. An operation. whereby patients may become miserable for life, and thus the repu- tation of the surgeon be for ever lost. Some years since, one of the profession, whom I had long known, but had not seen for many years, called on me; I naturally inquired respecting his success. He replied, that his life had been like April, sometimes sunshine, sometimes rain. I rejoined, “ How so ? you have brought up a family genteelly, and have, I understand, a respectable practice.” “True,” said he, “but a circumstance occurred some time ago which has given me much uneasiness ; I was called to attend a case of dislocation of the shoulder joint, but it so happened that I could not discover it; after attending the patient for a considerable time, another surgeon was requested to see him, who at once pronounced the bone to be out, which in reality was the case, for in a very short time he reduced it. When the man recovered, he brought an action against me ; 1 had to pay two hundred pounds damages, and the law expenses were two hundred pounds more. The loss of the money I did not feel, but I have severely felt being pointed at as an ignorant man.” A few years ago, one of the dressers in St. Thomas’s hospital, wished to perform an operation; and he turned his attention to the surgery boy, who had a bad leg, and said to him, one day, “ Abra- ham, I should like to cut off your leg.” “ Indeed!” said Abraham, “ I should not like it.” “ Oh,” said the dresser, “ it will never be of any use to you in its present state, and therefore you had better be without it. I will take a lodging for you; I will give you some money, and you shall be well attended.” The boy’s scruples were overcome; he took the money, and went to the lodging; all was fixed, and the operator began; but finding a great discharge of blood, he cried out to his assistant, “ Screw the tourniquet tighter.” He obeyed, but in doing so the screw broke: at this unforeseen accident, the dresser lost all presence of mind; he jumped about the room, then ran to the sufferer, and endeavoured to stop the effusion of blood by compressing the wound with his hand, but in vain; hi3 sleeve became filled with blood, and poor Abraham would have died in a very short time, had not a pupil accidentally called, who had