131 ON GANGRENE. in a living1 vessel, I took off the ligature from the dead vessel, and found that in ten minutes the blood had coagulated as firmly as it would in a vessel into which a person had been bleeding. In a dead blood-vessel, therefore, the blood becomes coagulated just as it would in a vessel out of the body. If you attempt to inject a part after gangrene, the injection will not enter the vessel. There is a specimen on the table (Sir Astley exhibited the specimen,) of a gangrenous limb, where you may perceive that the injection has entered only as far as the part at which gangrene has commenced. Such is the state of parts under gangrene. They can never be recovered, because living blood can never again circulate in them. The subject next in order is the treatment of gangrene; but as I intend to occupy a little of your time this evening by a very curious experiment, I shall defer the consideration of that subject to the next lecture. I have something to say to you, also, gentlemen, on another subject. In the course of these lectures, I have always considered it my duty to direct your attention to what is going forward in the hospitals, and to illustrate every subject, as far as possible, by a reference to cases which are actually under your inspection. A short time ago, I amputated a limb in the other hospital, in a Singular Case case of aneurism, which is extremely curious, and to which I am o^Anastomo- not sure that there ever has been a parallel. Some months ago, a man underwent the operation for aneurism; the femoral artery was tied; shortly after, the pulsation disappeared, and he was soon after supposed to be cured of the aneurism, and discharged. He returned to his work ; but soon after a swelling arose in the ham, without pulsation. The swelling subsided in consequence of rest: but a few weeks ago, while the man was at labour, the swelling returned with great pain, which increased during the time he was in the hospital ; and, as there was no prospect of his recovering a useful limb, amputation was resorted to. In this case, I found the 1 femoral artery, below the place to which the ligature had been [ applied, was conveying blood. As it was impossible that the femoral artery could be pervious, the blood must have been conveyed k 2