PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. 2G9 jfor the patient, pulleys were not employed. The appearance of the limb, after nine years have elapsed since the accident, are these :— the limb is three inches and a half shorter than the other, and he is [obliged to wear a shoe with an additional sole of three inches on i th at side, which lessens, though it does not prevent his halt in walking. When he stands, the foot of the injured limb rests upon the other ; the toes are turned inwards ; and the knee, which ,is advanced upon the other, is also inverted, and rests upon the side of the patella of the sound limb, and upon the vastus internus muscle; it is also bent, and cannot be completely extended. The high, from the unemployed state of several of the muscles, is very nuch wasted; but the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, and jiceps, in consequence of the shortened state of the limb, form a ,’onsiderable rounded projection on the back part of the thigh. The trochanter major is seven-eighths of an inch nearer to the ;pine of the ilium of the injured side than of the other. On view- ng him behind, the trochanter major is seen projecting on the in- ured side much farther than on the other ; the situation of the lead of the bone on the dorsum ilii, is easily perceived; and when lie limb is rotated inwards, it is still more obvious. The spinous processes of the ilia are of an equal height. In the sitting posture, i he foot is turned very much inwards, and the knee is placed jieliind the other, whilst the toe only reaches the ground. If atigued, he experiences pain in the opposite hip, and in the thigh >f the injured limb. This unfortunate man finds it an arduous ask to gain his bread by his labour, as he cannot stoop but with he ’greatest difficulty ; for when he attempts to take anything rom the ground, he bends the knee of the injured limb at right ingles with the thigh, and throws it far back. He can now stand or a few seconds upon the dislocated limb, but it was twelve months before he could endure that posture. When in bed, lie finds it painful to lie on the injured side. His hip, without any apparent cause, is much weaker at some times than at others. jiVhen sitting down to evacuate his faeces, he is obliged to support limself by resting the injured knee against the tendo achillis of