OF THE DIAGNOSIS OF THE HYDATID TESTIS. 299 Bartholomew Lupre, aged thirty, an Italian sailor, was admitted Case, into Guy’s Hospital in April, 1809, with an enlarged testis, which he reported began four or five months previously; the cause was unknown, but he supposed that it arose from a cold, produced by his wearing wet clothes; the veins of the scrotum were much loaded with blood, and those of the spermatic cord were very varicose. This man suffered considerable pain in his loins from the weight of the swelling. I performed the operation of removing the testicle, and found it, upon dissection, full of cysts of various magnitude. A young medical man called upon me with enlargement of the Case, testis, unattended with pain: its increase was gradual, its weight was considerable, its fluctuation obscure; the general health was good. Mr. Guthrie removed the testis, which I examined, and found to be of the hydatid or encysted kind: he gradually recovered. The cause of this disease is unknown, and I shall not indulge in Cause speculation, which would probably he unsatisfactory for want of proof, and useless in preventing the occurrence of the disease, if clearly developed. The operation for the hydatid disease is required from the incon- ! venience resulting from its size, and from the pain in the loins produced by its weight. A quantity of blood should be taken from the am; the patient briskly purged for a few days, and animal ] food refused for a week before the operation. I have never known a patient do otherwise than well under the removal of the testicle for this disease. You may confidently also assure your patient, that there is no danger remote danger of returning disease; for in no instance has there, return, if within my knowledge, been any extension of the complaint to the abdomen by the absorbent vessels. It is right to state, however, that I once saw in Mr. Moorhouse; a medical gentleman who died of a fungous testicle, which extended into the abdomen; in some parts of the testicle numerous hydatid j cysts mixed With the morbid fungus or medullary structure : i so it seems that the two diseases may be combined in the same i individual.