TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. 1 '38 Propriety of amputating. of tying the femoral artery, if the limb be suffered to rest in the same position for a considerable time, a small gangrenous spot frequently appears. In such cases, the spirit of turpentine is the best application. Yeast is often applied with the same view. A lotion much used in the other hospital, for this purpose, is the formula which used to be called the epithema lythargyri acetatis, but now called the epithema plumbi subacetatis. The following is the mode of preparing it:— R Confect. Ros. *j Mel. Rosse. ) 5,. Tinct. Opii. ' Liq. Plumbi Subacet. jjj. M. This is an application which accords extremely well with limbs in a state of gangrene, when the dead are separating from the living parts: it is a very useful application then in gangrene. During the sloughing process, the nitric acid is the best application that can be used: when the gangrene stops, and the line of demarcation is drawn, and the sloughing process is commencing, the nitric acid may be employed in the portion of fifty drops to a pint of water. I have seen very good effects from an application composed of vinegar and camphor mixture, about four ounces of the vinegar to twelve ounces of the camphor mixture; I have seen this of service when no other application had been used, as in the case of a gentleman at Peckham, whom I attended with Mr. A. These are the different modes of treatment for the prevention of gangrene, and the arresting of the sloughing process. ON THE PROPRIETY OF AMPUTATION IN GANGRENE. As to the propriety of amputation—there is no occasion in general for amputation in cases of gangrene when the sloughing process is going on, as you have an opportunity of seeing in the man at the other hospital, where nature has performed the operation herself, without any assistance; if the surgeon will be content to wait a short time, and the patient is disposed also, you will find that the parts will separate as well without, as with, an operation.