WOUNDS or THE LUNG. 214 Treatment. In the treatment, a bandage is to be placed so tight around the Danger of. Treatment. Danger from inflammation. Operation for efliision. Effusion in old persons. Danger in three ways results from wounds of the lung. First, from haemorrhage, if any large branch of the pulmonary artery is wounded. If the vessel be wounded by a sword or knife, it bleeds very freely; but if by a broken rib, very little, as it has the nature of a lacerated wound. In either case, the patient must be freely bled, to prevent the continuance of the haemorrhage from the wounded lung, and the opening must not be closed in the parietes until all bleeding from the lungs have ceased, otherwise the blood will remain in the cavity of the chest, and produce irritation and inflammation. The second danger is from inflammation of the lung, and effu- sion into the cavity of the pleura. The first is to be guarded against by large and repeated bleedings, determined by the dys- pnea and hardness of the pulse; but there is little danger of bleeding too much in one of these cases, as it is an object not only to diminish the force of the circulation, but the quantity of the ■ blood in the pulmonary vessels. If effusion follows, it is the result of neglected inflammation, or of having closed the external wound too early. In the one case, > it is a purulent secretion ; in the other a bloody serum, which pro- duces the dyspnea some days after the accident. For effusion into the chest, it is right to perform the operation for paracentesis of the thorax, to draw off the pus or bloody serum which has collected in the pleura. The mode of doing this has been already described. I In old persons there is great danger in fractured ribs with wounded lung, and I always give a guarded opinion, for I have seen several die from effusion of fluid into the cellular tissue of the lung. The greatest care and quiet are therefore required in such a case, and it is better to give digitalis than to bleed very largely. >1 Emphysema, the third consequence of wounded lung, is less dangerous than the others. It sometimes extends to the face, ! covering the neck, and also a large part of the trunk.