DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. 245 facility with which the accident recurs after reduction,—a circum- stance frequently very difficult to obviate. The muscles are also influenced by the nature of the accident, being in some cases put upon the stretch, even to laceration; as the pectineus and abductor brevis, in dislocations of the thigh downward: and large quantities of blood become extravasated into the cellular membrane. The appearance of joints which have long been dislocated, • depends not only on the length of time that has elapsed from the accident, but also on the structure upon which the head of the dislocated bone is thrown; for if it be found embedded in muscle, its articular cartilage remains, and a new capsular ligament forms around it, which does not adhere to its cartilaginous surface. This ligament in dislocations of the femur, contains within it the head of the bone, with the lacerated portion of the ligamentum teres united to it. In these instances, the bones themselves undergo little change. The capsular ligament is formed from the surrounding cellular tissue; which, being pressed upon by the head of the bone, becomes inflamed, thickened, and condensed. By this means a substance is produced somewhat less dense than original liga- ment, but still possessing sufficient firmness to bear considerable pressure, and to furnish some degree of support. But if the head of the dislocated bone be placed on the surface of another bone, or upon a thin muscle over it, that muscle becomes absorbed, and the bone undergoes a remarkable change: thus it is found, if the dislocation be not reduced, that both the ball ind the bone which receives it are changed in their form. The aressure of the head of the bone produces absorption of the leriosteum, and of the articular cartilaginous surface of the head if the bone; a smooth hollow surface is formed, and the ball lecomes altered in its shape to adapt it to its new surface; ind whilst this absorption proceeds upon the part on which he head of the bone rests, an ossific deposit takes place around it rom the periosteum, which is there irritated, but not absorbed. Muscles. Dissections of old dislocations. Head of the bone embedded in muscle. Formation of a new capsular ligament. Manner of its formation. Head of the bone resting on another bone.