TUNICA VAGINALIS. 266 Tunica vagi- nalis testis. Relative posi- tion of all the coverings. secreted, and which, when poured out in a diseased quantity, produces the complaint which is called hydrocele. The tunica vaginalis is a reflected membrane, like the pericar- dium, pleura, and peritoneum. The tunica vaginalis reflexa passes loosely over the fore-part and sides of the testis; and being con- tinued to its posterior edge, there turns over the epididymis to the surface of the testicle, covering and adhering to the tunica albuginea; and in a similar manner on the other side, excepting on that side there is no epididymis. The tunica vaginalis testis can be dissected from the tunica albuginea but to a short distance, as it soon becomes incorporated with the surface of that membrane. Behind the tunica vaginalis reflexa, and the tunica vaginalis testis, the testicle is placed, contained in its tunica albuginea; and the spermatic vessels, the vas deferens, the absorbents, and the nerves of the testicle enter it posteriorly, and do not penetrate the tunica vaginalis; and the testis may be cut into behind, without injury to that tunic. In this dissection, then, the scrotum is first cut through; next the cellular tissue; thirdly, the fascia superficialis; fourthly, the cremaster muscle ; fifthly, the tunica vaginalis reflexa; sixthly, the tunica vaginalis testis; and then the testis, with its covering of tunica albuginea, is exposed. The tunica vaginalis is a serous membrane, and forms a cavity, which communicates with the peritoneum and cavity of the abdo- men before birth, but is usually shut after birth by adhesion, when it becomes a small thin cord, situated on the fore-part of the spermatic vessels. The fluid which it secretes, when abundant, has the colour and other properties of serum, being a solution of albumen. It is coagulable by heat, and various chemical agents. The tunic is supplied with vessels from the spermatic artery, and artery of the vas deferens, from which its halitus is secreted. Its veins open into the spermatic veins. Its absorbents pass upon the spermatic cord with those of the testis and with them into the