420 OF FISTULA IN ANO. Symptoms. Discharge of the matter. Extensive sinus. Case. Small sinus. Caused by a pile. Origin sojne- times local. The symptoms of this disease are, pain near the anus, with considerable hardness, bearing- down, and tenesmus upon going to stool, and difficulty in the evacuation; throbbing and darting pain in the rectum, and on the diseased side of the nates. A fluctuation is perceived; and if the case be left to nature, the abscess breaks either into the rectum, and the matter and blood are discharged with the faeces, or it breaks externally near the anus, but sometimes at a distance from it, either in the perineum or in the nates. The matter which issues from the abscess is sometimes excessively putrid, extricating a considerable quantity of air, and is highly offensive. The fistulous orifice, when it is formed into the rectum only, is the most difficult of management, because the orifice is with difficulty discerned. When the abscess breaks both externally and into the rectum, it is most easy of treatment; but it generally discharges itself only externally; and a probe, when introduced, passes to the side of the rectum, sometimes to the external surface of the intestine, at others from half an inch to an inch from it, so that the original seat of the matter is in the cellular tissue surrounding the rectum. I have several times known a sinus form on each side of the anus, and communicate around the rectum, of which we have a preparation in the collection of St. Thomas’s Hospital, so that the rectum has been considerably separated from the surrounding parts. I examined a man who died of a discharge from a sinus in the groin, and who had a fistula in ano; and upon tracing the sinus in the groin, it passed under Poupart’s ligament and took the course of the vas deferens, and descended into the fistula in ano. Sometimes the sinus only just reaches the sphincter, and is extremely small, at first appearing only as a suppuration of one of the follicles of the anus. Sometimes the matter burrows four inches by the side of the rectum. The abscess has, in some instances, its origin in a suppurating pile. Fistula in ano is, in a few instances, a local disease, depending