476 OF AMPUTATION OF THE FINGERS. Instruments. Operation. Dressing. Operation of the fore or little finger. would not be of any utility if suffered to remain. The wound also unites more readily, than that which is produced by the amputation through the joint. The instruments required in performing this operation are, a common pointed scalpel, and a metacarpal saw ; and my metacarpal saw moves upon its axis, so that it chn be made to cut in any direction. The finger to be amputated being extended and separated from the others, two incisions are to be made through the integument, which meet at an angle over the dorsum of the metacarpal bone, at a short distance below the digital extremity, and terminate on each side of the first phalanx at the natural separation of the fingers; two other incisions of the same form and extent are to be made on the palmar side, which are to join the former between the fingers ; the scalpel is then to be passed down on each side of the extremity of the metacarpal bone, so as to divide it completely from its lateral connexions, and the extensor and fiexor tendons are also to be cut through at the point of the first incisions ; this being accomplished, the blade of the metacarpal saw is to be introduced between the bones, and the extremity to be removed is to be carefully sawn off. The edges of the wound are to be brought into contact, by binding the fingers on each side of it together, when the hand and fore-arm are to be supported by a sling, as after the former operation. In amputating either the fore or little finger, only two external incisions are required, which should begin at a point below the extremity of metacarpal bone, as in the other case, only over the centre of that side which is outermost, and extend one over the joint and the other under it in an oblique direction, so as to meet between the fingers; two flaps are then to be raised, so as to expose the extremity of the metacarpal bone ; the separation of which is to be completed as before described. The edges of the wounds are to be brought into contact by the application of adhesive plaster, and the arm to be supported.