DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. 261 see a patient with a dislocated shoulder, which had resisted the various attempts he had made at reduction. I found the patient in bed, with his right arm dislocated. Sitting down on the bed by his side, I placed my heel in the axilla, and drew the arm at the wrist; the dislocated bone remained unmoved. I said, “ Rise from your bed, Sir: ” he made an effort to do so, whilst I continued my extension, and the bone snapped into its socket. For a similar reason a slight effort, when the muscles are unprepared, will ac- i complish the reduction of dislocation, after violent measures have failed. > •: The reduction of the limb is ascertained by the restoration of its natural form, by the recovery of its original motion, and by a snap or sudden sound, which is heard when the bone returns into its articulatory cavity. After a bone has been reduced by the pulleys, it will not remain in its situation without the aid of bandages to support it, until the recovery of muscular action. In the hip, however, dislocations rarely occur a second time; but the shoulder and the lower jaw very frequently slip again from their sockets, owing to the little depth of the cavity into which the head of the bone is received; and therefore they require bandages for a considerable period. Rest is necessary for some time after the reduction of the limb, in order to produce a union of the ruptured ligament, which would be prevented by exercise. The strength of the muscles and liga- ments may also be greatly promoted by affusion of cold water upon the limb, and by subsequent friction. I believe that much mischief is produced by attempts to reduce dislocations of long duration in very muscular persons. I have seen great contusion of the integuments, laceration and bruises of muscles, tension of nerves, inducing an insensibility and paralysis of the hand, occasioned by an abortive attempt to reduce a dislo- cation of the shoulder; so that the patient’s condition has been rendered much worse than before. In such cases, even when the bone is replaced, it has often proved rather an evil than a benefit, ifrom the violence of the extension. Second disloca- tion. Rest of the limb. Old dislocations not to be re- duced.