230 ON THE TYING OF ARTERIES. Dissection. subject in books. In the two first animals on which I performed this operation, I thought the paralysis was owing to the interruption of the circulation, but on repeating the experiment, I found it was produced by including the aortic plexus. If the aorta be well cleaned, and a ligature applied, and the vessel be returned to the abdomen, the dog runs about as if nothing had been done to it; and in five minutes after, it will eat bread out of your hands, if it has been previously accustomed to it. The operation, I repeat, is exceedingly easy, and a boy may perform it. Well, after you have done this, wait a short time, kill the animal, and inject the arteries, you will find that the lumbar vessels on the inner side of the abdomen, and fore part of the spine, had carried on the circulation. The reason of the paralysis in the case I have just alluded to was, that the aortic plexus was included, and the result was the destruc- tion of life. Unfortunately, however, in the human subject you cannot make your incision near the spine, but must do it in the fore part of the abdomen to get at the aorta. If a case were to offer itself, similar to that I have told you of, I would immediately perform the operation again ; and my own conviction is, that it can be done, and with success. At the time I tied the aorta, the patient appeared dying; after the operation had been performed, I was pleased in a remarkable manner to see him in the evening- sitting up in bed, adjusting his clothes; if the vessel had not been secured when it was, he would not have lived an hour. On the following morning, signs of constitutional irritation came on, in the evening he became much worse, and in forty hours from the time of the operation he died. No peritoneal inflammation, but at the edges of the wound, which were glued together by adhesive matter, excepting at the part where the ligature protruded. The thread had been passed round the aorta, about three quarters of an inch above its bifurca- tion, and rather more than an inch below the part at which the duodenum crosses the artery : it did not include any portion of the omentum, or intestine. Upon cutting open the aorta carefully, a