274 OF TIIE EPIDIDYMIS. Origin in the Rete. the canals of the rete, situated between the layers of the same tunic, compose the bodies of the testis ; and the seminal vessels next in order are the vasa efferentia. These vessels are placed between the testis and epididymis, and become therefore the medium of commu- nication of the testis and its appendix, the epididymis. They proceed from the anterior and upper extremity of the rete, and pass to the epididymis, in which they terminate. The greatest number of these vessels which I have seen is fifteen, and from thirteen to fifteen exist in a healthy testis; but they are very often found in a diseased state, and obliterated so as to be reduced to the number of six or seven; but this does not prevent the organ from continuing to perform its functions, as the semen is still readily conveyed by the remaining channels into the epididymis. The vasa efferentia arise singly from the rete, and they terminate in the epididymis, in different parts of it, so as to leave the epididymis a single tube. Prior to their termination, they each form a conical body, in which the seminal tube is divided with extreme minuteness, just before its termination in the epididymis. A small band of communication is continued along the surface of the vasa efferentia, to receive the termination of those vessels. Between the vasa efferentia and the lobes which they form, strong ligamentous cords are found, intended for the purpose of strengthening the connection between the testis and epididymis ; and the tunica vaganilis which is reflected over them, is a denser structure than in other parts. The vasa efferentia have the general form and character of the tubuli testis, only that their direction is reversed; they begin from the rete, in single vessels, a little convoluted, and then, by their excessive convolutions, they are formed into conical bodies: they differ from the tubuli in sending forth a vessel to the epididymis, instead of terminating in a blind extremity. The first vas efferens has the readiest communication with the epididymis, the second a smaller, and so on, although they all ultimately communicate with it. OF THE EPIDIDYMIS. Epididymis. This body may he considered as an appendix to the testis, and