411 DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. sternum; and if the distance of the two shoulders from that bone be measured, this inequality is directly detected; the clavicle being naturally the means of preserving the distance of the scapula from the side, to throw out the shoulders, and to render the motions of the arm extensive. But the easiest mode of detecting this accident is, to place the finger upon the spine of j the scapula, and to trace this portion of bone forward to the acromion in which it ends; the finger is stopped by the projec- tion of the clavicle, and so soon as the shoulders are drawn back, - the point of the clavicle sinks into its place, but it reappears when the shoulders are let go. The point of the clavicle projects against , | the skin upon the superior part of the shoulder, and much pain is I felt when it is pressed. In this injury the capsular ligament is necessarily torn through, as well as the external ligament, from the coracoid process to the i clavicle, or no dislocation of the sternal extremity could occur. ; The internal ligament, when the dislocation is complete, must be also lacerated ; but I have seen the clavicle project but slightly on i i the acromion in some of these accidents, denoting that the latter ligament had not given way. It is scarcely probable that the clavicle should be ever dislocated in any other direction than upwards. At least, I have never seen jan instance of the clavicle gliding under the acromion ; but I would i not deny the possibility of such an accident. This species of dislocation is caused by a fail upon the shoulders, Cause. I I through which the scapula is forced inwards towards the ribs, and the accident which produces it is excessively violent. It has been jl jsaid, that the action of the trapezius muscle alone could produce i this effect; but that is impossible, as this muscle would not in- fluence both the ligaments of the coracoid process, which must be torn through to produce the dislocation. In the treatment of this accident, I adopt the following plan: Reduction. The assistant, standing behind the patient, puts his knee between i the shoulders, and draws them backwards and upwards, when the clavicle sinks into its socket. A thick cushion is then placed in