362 or STONE IN THE URETER. Pain not con- stant. Case. Case. Case. when a quarter of a mile from his house, he was seized with this pain, and fell on the ground, being unable to walk until his servants came to his assistance, and carried him home. The pain has remissions, and the patient is flattered with the hope of the stone having passed the ureter ; but, after a few minutes, it returns with equal violence, and it is only after repeated attacks that it escapes into the bladder. Calculi in the ureter I have known destroy life in the following instances : Mr. Cline had removed a stone from a boy in St. Thomas’s Hos- pital, by the operation of lithotomy; the boy had recovered from the operation, when he was seized with rigors, great pain in the course of the ureter, and vomiting; a swelling formed just above the seat of the ccecum, in the right iliac region, which gradually increased, and the boy’s constitution quickly gave way. On examination after his death, the pelvis of the kidney and the ureter were found distended with matter ; and at the end of the ureter, near the bladder, a stone was discovered, which had prevented the escape of the urine, and of matter, into the bladder, and thus occasioned death. The prepa- ration of the diseased parts is in the Museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital. Mr. Hallam, of Walworth, gave me a preparation of a stone, stopped in the ureter, which was taken from a patient of his, who had for a length of time discharged matter from the colon per anum; nature had formed an opening for the escape of the urine and pus, in this case, first by producing adhesion between the ureter and colon, and then by making a communication between the two by a subsequent ulcerative pi’ocess. We have another curious preparation of a stone in the ureter, surrounded by an abscess, taken from a patient who came to my house for advice. She had great pain in her loins, and tenderness in her abdomen, with so much fever as led me to suppose that she had but little time to live; I advised her to apply to a Mr. Smart, a surgeon, in my neighbourhood in the city, who sent to inform me, a few day6 after, that she was dead, and that he had permission to