SCIRRHOUS TUBERCLE, OR CANCER. 333 : one case at ninety-three years, another case at eighty-six, and have removed one at seventy-three, ulcerated, and the patient did well. It most frequently occurs about fifty years of age. In ninety-seven | cases, which I remarked, twelve were of that age. The tumours which are found in women under thirty years of Often con- age, and which are usually called scirrhous, are really only simple with Chr0nic | chronic enlargements, and are not disposed to malignant action, and disease, do not absolutely require removal. When the disease occurs in very old persons, it does not in Does not general shorten life; but the patient lives as long with it as probably shorten life she would have done if such tumour had not existed, and dies of some other disease. I saw a lady at eighty-six, who consulted me upon the propriety of an operation for this disease, and whom I advised not to submit to it; and, after several years, she died of another complaint. The disease is supposed to occur more particularly at the cessation Occurring of menstruation, and which is really the fact, for it is frequently attheces- sation oi sympathetic with the uterus; but still the exceptions to this rule menstruation. are very frequent. The symptoms are augmented by the approach of menstruation, and decline as the period is passing. The disease ]yjore freqUent occurs more frequently in unmarried women than in others, and in m unmarried women. women who, being married, have had no children, probably because the breast has not undergone that change for which nature had designed it, in being the fountain of nourishment to offspring; but yet pregnancy and nursing do not prevent the tendency to disease in some persons; for I have known a woman die of the complaint who had been pregnant seventeen times, and had ten living children. If a tumour exists in the breast previous to the cessation of men- struation, a malignant action will occur in it at the period of its cessation, or soon after it. There are sometimes several persons in the same family who will Many persons be affected with this disease. A physician had three relatives, affected!'17 sisters, the first of whom had a scirrhous tubercle of the breast, of which she died. A second had the disease, which was removed by