25G DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. Fatigue of mus- cles. Permanent con' traction. Vis tonica of muscles. tary ; but they have a power of contraction independent of either state. A muscle, when excited to action by volition, soon becomes fatigued, and requires rest. The arm can be extended only for a few minutes, at right angles with the body, before it feels a fatigue which requires a suspension of action; and, indeed, the same law governs involuntary action, as the heart has its contraction and relaxation. But when a muscle is divided, its parts contract; or when the antagonist muscle is cut, the undivided muscle draws the parts1 into which it is inserted, into a fixed situation. Thus, if the biceps muscle be divided, the triceps keeps the arm constantly extended; if the muscles on one side of the face be paralytic, the opposing muscles draw the face to their side. This contraction is not suc- ceeded by fatigue or relaxation, but will continue an indefinite time, even until the structure of the muscle becomes changed; and its contraction increases from the first occurrence of the acci- dent. Thus it is, that when a bone is dislocated, the muscles draw it as far from the joints as the surrounding parts will allow, and there retain it by their contraction. It is this resistance from muscles, aided by their spontaneous contraction, which the surgeon, is required to counteract. If an extension be made almost imme- diately after a dislocation has happened, the resistance produced by the muscles is easily overcome: but if the operation be post- poned for a few days only, the utmost difficulty occurs in its ac- complishment. Mr. Forster, son of the surgeon of Guy’s Hospital, informed me that in a fatal case of fracture of the thigh-bone, which he had an opportunity of dissecting before its union, the ends of the bones overlapped, and the muscles had acquired a contraction so rigid, that he could not, even in the dead body, bring the bones to their natural position, after employing all the force he was capable of exerting. It is this state of muscles in dislocations, which gives rise to the difficulty in their reduction, and which, even in the