DISSECTION. 322 Case. Mrs. King, of Charing Cross, aged 58, had an enormous enlarge- ment of her left breast; she discovered it fourteen years ago, and supposed it arose from a blow. When first observed, it was as large as a marble only, hard, and entirely unattended with pain. It seemed to be buried in the breast, and was not very moveable in the glandular structure. It gradually grew until two years ago, when it had acquired the size of a melon. At that period it seemed suddenly to grow faster than before; but was still unattended with pain, and her general health appeared to be good. Last Christmas it also acquired a very sudden increase ; but was still free from any painful sensations, excepting that sometimes, when she had a cold, she felt a slight uneasiness in the part. On the 30th of September, 1822, I was consulted ; the tumour then measured thirty-five inches in circumference, was solid, and felt cartilaginous in some parts ; but in others was soft and fluctu- ating, and one bag evidently contained a large quantity of fluid. The solid tumour was placed above, the fluid occupied the lower part of the swelling. Her general health was good, and the swelling was free from pain; but she suffered much from its weight drawing down the skin and pectoral muscle, and putting the nerves exceedingly on the stretch. On the following day it was removed, in the presence of Mr. Key, a surgeon of Guy’s Hospital, and Mr. Laviss, a practitioner in Westminster. The large vessels, divided in the operation, were immediately secured, or pressed upon, so as to prevent any considerable loss of blood. The wound, when dressed on the seventh day appeared healthy ; her constitution suffered but little, and she recovered without any untoward circumstance, and is now living at the same residence. Upon inspection, the greater part of the swelling appeared like boiled udder ; within which, at various parts, cysts were contained, and when these were opened, hydatids, composed of numerous lamellae,were found: serum was effused around them.