379 OF THE OPERATION. great care, and the gorget must be well retained during their passage. I have seen the forceps pass between the bladder and rectum, from the surgeon’s pulling back the gorget as he thrust forwards the forceps, which should never be done. The gorget must not be removed until the surgeon has thrust his finger forwards to feel that the groove of the staff has been freely opened. I frequently, if the perineum be not very deep, remove the gorget after it has entered the bladder; and introduce the forceps by my finger, carried along the groove of the staff. When the forceps have passed into the bladder, the gorget and Mode of using staff are to be removed; and the surgeon, before opening the the *orceP3, forceps, should sound with them for the stone. When the situation of the calculus has been thus ascertained, the blades of the forceps are to be separated and the stone received between them ; and this must be done with great gentleness, not only to save the patient pain, but to prevent any injury to the internal surface of the bladder. . When the stone is drawn down to the opening in the perineum, wait a little for the cessation of muscular action from the perineal muscles, and introduce the finger by the side of the forceps, to feel if any obstruction exists, and to press it out of the way of the stone ; for the finger is the best instrument for this purpose. It is right to turn one blade of the forceps to the pubes, and the other to the rectum, as the stone cannot then injure the urethra. If the extraction of the stone be violently resisted, disengage and remove the forceps, then introduce the finger and feel how the stone is placed, and, if necessary, turn its long axis into the direction of the long axis of the bladder. Having grasped the stone with the forceps, do not be hasty in extracting it, but be gentle in the employment of your power, depending upon the gradual, rather than the sudden exertion of force. The great danger, and the most frequent cause of death, in my opinion, arises from the surgeon’s employing excessive violence with the forceps; first, bruising the bladder; secondly, disengaging it from its situation by tearing down its natural adhesions ; it