DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. 407 location is incomplete, the anterior portion of the capsular liga- ment only being torn, and the bone slightly projecting; but gene- rally all the ligaments are lacerated, and the bone, with its inter- articular cartilage, is thrown forward. The cause of this injury is a fall upon the point of the shoulder, when the force pushes the clavicle inwards and forwards, and pio- jects it on the sternum; but it also frequently happens from a fall upon the elbow at the time when it is separated from the side, by which the clavicle is forced violently inwards and forwards against the anterior part of the capsular ligament. With respect to the means of reduction, and the principle upon which the treatment is to be regulated, there is no difficulty in practising the one, or in understanding the other. The clavicle is easily returned to its place by pulling the shoulder backwards, be- | cause then it is drawn off the sternum, and its end falls upon the cavity which naturally received it; but if pressure in this position of the shoulder be not made upon the fore part of the bone, it will be found still liable to project in some degree. The principle, therefore, upon which the extension is made, is to raw the scapula as far from the side as is practicable without in- convenience, and supporting the arm, to prevent its weight from influencing the position of the bone. The first of these objects is best effected by the use of the cla- vicle bandage, and by the application of two pads or cushions affixed to it, which are placed in the axillae. These pads throw the head of the os humeri from the side, and carry the scapula, and the clavicle connected with it, outwards and backwards, and thus the clavicle is drawn into its natural articular cavity. The second intention is effected by putting the arm in a sling, which, through the medium of the os humeri and scapula, supports it, and prevents the clavicle from being drawn down by the weight of the arm. DISLOCATION BACKWARDS. The dislocation of the extremity of the bone backwards I have Partial. Its cause. Reduction. Principle. Mode of exten- sion. Dislocation backwards.