470 DISLOCATIONS OF THE CARPAL BONES. be enlarged for their removal; and instead of fomentations and poultices, a quantity of lint, dipped in the patient’s blood, should be applied round the wrist, lightly bound with a roller. The arm should be supported upon a splint, so as to be kept perfectly free from motion; evaporating lotions should be applied; and the limb should not be disturbed, unless the patient has symptoms of a suppurative process, when a small opening should be made in the bandage to allow of the escape of pus, but still the bandages should be suffered to remain. The patient should be bled from the arm if the inflammation and constitutional irritation be considerable; and, under these circumstances, leeches should be occasionally applied. The bowels should be kept gently open, but all active purging avoided. DISLOCATIONS OF THE CARPAL BONES. The eight bones of the carpus are joined to each other by short ligaments, which pass from bone to bone, allowing but a very slight degree of motion of one bone upon another; but besides this mode of articulation, there is a transverse joint between the Carpal joint. first and second rows of carpal bones, forming a complete ball and socket. The ball is produced by the rounded extremities of the os magnum and os cuneiforme; the cup, by the scaphoid, lunar, and cuneiform bones. A ligament passes from one row of bones to the other, including this articulation. The dislocation of a carpal bone is but of rare occurrence ; the following is an example of the accident. Case. Mary Nicholls, aged sixty, slipped down, and, trying to save herself, fell upon the back of her hand, and fractured the radius obliquely outwards, through the lower articulating surface. The fractured portion, with the os scaphoides, was thrown backwards upon the carpus. The wrist was slightly bent, and there was an evident projection at the back of the carpus. The fingers could be completely extended, but only semiflexed. A crepitus might be distinctly felt, either by moving the hand, or the styloid process of die radius backwards or forwards. By slight extension, and steady