PARTS FORMING HERNIA. 33 dominal rings, being on the iliac side of the external ring, and on the pubic side of the internal ring. We are now prepared to trace the course and relations of the oblique inguinal hernia. This, which is by far the most common species of rupture, passes, in the first instance, through the in- ternal ring, and as that part is closed towards the abdomen by the peritoneum, it is evident that the latter structure must be protruded before the viscera, so as to form the envelope or sac in which they are contained. At the internal ring the hernia sepa- rates from the cord on which it descends, the internal spermatic fascia; it then passes beneath the muscular arch of the internal oblique transversalis, and in this place it detaches the fibres of the cremaster from the surface of the cord; continuing to descend, the protrusion escapes from the inguinal canal by passing through the external ring, where it gets the coverings of the external spermatic fascia, the superficial fascia, and the skin. The hernia subsequently continues its descent, until it has passed completely into the scrotum. In this course, enumerating the parts, according to the order in which they are divided in the operation, the hernia will be covered by 1st, the skin; 2dly, superficial fascia; 3dly, external spermatic fascia; 4thly, cremaster muscle; 5thly, internal spermatic fascia. It is proper to remark, that although these several layers can be distinctly demonstrated to exist, yet that after the protrusion has occurred some time, they are generally, in conse- quence of the process of chronic inflammation that is set up, so much thickened and blended together, that they are separated with difficulty; and especially it happens that the external sper- matic fascia becomes blended with the cremaster, and the internal fascia with the peritoneal sac. We have already pointed out the means adopted by nature to prevent the direct protrusion of the viscera at the external ring. Now although the support thus afforded is in the great majority of cases efficient, yet it occasionally happens that a hernia is formed, which, passing neither through the internal ring nor the inguinal passage, emerges directly through the external ring ; such Course and coverings of ob- lique inguinal hernia. Direct inguinal hernia. VOL. II. 1>