PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. 279 thigh-bone without touching it, and so inclosed its head, that it could not be removed from its new socket without breaking its edges. The inner side of this new cup was extremely smooth, not | having the least ossific projection at any part to impede the motion of the head of the bone, which was only restrained by the muscles from extensive movements. The original acetabulum was half filled by bone, so that it could not have received the ball of the thigh-bone if an attempt had been made to return it into its na- tural situation. The head of the thigh-bone was very little altered; its articular cartilage still remained; the ligamentum teres was entirely broken, and the capsular ligament was partially torn through; the pectinalis muscle and adductor brevis had been j lacerated, but were united by tendon; the psoas muscle and iliacus interims, the glutei and pyriformis, were all upon the stretch, i Nothing can be more curious, or, to the surgeon and physiologist, i more beautiful, than the changes produced by this neglected acci- dent, exemplifying the resources of nature in producing restora- tion. The reduction of this dislocation, is, in general, very easily Reduction, effected. If the misfortune be of recent occurrence, it is requisite to place the patient upon his back, to Separate the thighs as widely as possible, and to place a girth between the pudendum and the upper part of the luxated thigh, fixing it to a staple in the wall. The surgeon then puts his hand upon the ancle of the dislocated side, and draws it over the sound leg, or, if the thigh be very large, behind the sound limb, and the head of the bone slips into its socket. I saw a dislocation thus reduced, which had happened very recently, and which was subjected to an extension in St. Thomas’s Hospital, almost immediately after the patient’s admis- sion. In a similar case, the thigh might be fixed by a bed-post received between the pudendum and the upper part of the limb, and the leg be carried inwards across the other. But in general it is required to fix the pelvis by a girth passed around it, and crossed under that which passes around the thigh, to which pulleys