DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. 387 8. Mortification of the Foot, Sometimes ensues, and becomes a sufficient reason for amputat- Gangrene. ! ing the limb; but this must generally be done when limits appear j to be set to the extension of the mortification. However, it may be observed, that in the mortification which ensues from the division of a blood-vessel, where the brachial artery had been divided, and the elbow-joint dislocated, I have seen the arm removed above the injured part, while the limb was still dying to- wards the seat of the wounded artery, and the patient was restored to health. And I have also known a case of popliteal aneurism, in which the artery and surrounding parts were so com- 1 pressed by the swelling, that mortification began at the foot, and was extending to the knee; and, although no limit was yet set to the mortification, the limb was amputated, and the patient re- ! covered. So that mortification, when it arises from injury to a blood-vessel, or other local injury, in a healthy constitution, admits j of a practice different from that which is pursued in mortification arising from constitutional causes. Excessive Contusion may he another reason for Amputation; And therefore in those cases in which heavy laden carriages pass over joints and bruise the integuments so as to occasion the forma- i tion of extensive slough, and produce at the same time, generally, the worst examples of compound dislocation, in regard to the state of the bor.es, I shovld immediately amputate; for such cases are : very different from those which are caused by jumping from a con- siderable height, from a carriage rapidly in motion, or by a fall in walking or running. Extensive Suppuration mill also be a reason for Amputation. I have known, after an attempt to save the limb, the patient have imore extensive suppuration than his constitution could support, followed by an ulceration of the ligaments, by which the joint be- came additionally exposed, and the bones were again displaced : c c 2 Contusion. Suppuration.