39 OF FEMORAL HERNIA. Contents of crural sheath. Crural ring. on the fore part, and the fascia iliaca on the back part) in the form of a tube, which is flattened from before backwards; this tube is the femoral or crural sheath. It is particularly necessary to Femoral sheath. remark, that whilst the fascia transversalis on the outer side of the iliac blood-vessels, descends almost vertically into the thigh, and is closely applied to the side of the artery, that on the inner side, turning around the concave edge of Gimbernat’s ligament, it is not immediately applied against the inner surface of the iliac vein. In consequence of this disposition, the femoral sheath assumes on its upper and inner side an infundibular form. The sheath thus formed contains on the outer side the femoral artery, in the middle the femoral vein, and on the inner side a few lymphatic vessels ; but it is proper to remark, that, in conse- quence of there being two septa passing from the anterior to the posterior part, each vessel is contained within a special division of the sheath. If we endeavour to push the finger from the abdomen under- neath Poupart’s ligament into the thigh, it will be found that the junction of the two fasciae prevents this being done on the outer side of the iliac artery; and that, in front of the blood-vessels, although the part is more yielding, yet the two septa just described offer a degree of resistance which is sufficient to prevent any descent of the viscera taking place in that situation. But on making pressure on the inner side of the iliac vein, the finger in- stantly sinks into a hollow, and, if the pressure be considerable, it passes completely under Poupart’s ligament into the thigh. This hollow is the crural or femoral ring, and as this is the precise point where femoral hernia invariably protrudes, it is desirable carefully to consider its relations. The crural ring is situated in that part of the femoral sheath, which is placed between the ex- ternal iliac vein and the concave border of Gimbernat’s ligament. It is bounded in front by Poupart’s ligament, behind by the body of the pubis, on the iliac side by the external iliac vein, and on the pubic side by Gimbernat’s ligament, whilst placed closely above