INGUINAL HERNIA. 81 otherwise inflammation extends from the strictured portion to the viscera, within the cavity of the abdomen, and thus the surgeon has to combat with a severe disease after the removal of the strangulation. The danger is therefore in the delay, and not in the operation. Very frequently much time is unnecessarily lost, before an opera- Danger of delay, tion is proposed; and too much cannot be said in condemnation of such practice. A patient is submitted again and again to the taxis, and the swelling is rendered extremely tender, by being so often compressed, in the hope of avoiding an operation, until at length the rapid increase and urgency of the symptoms point out the im- propriety of such delay; and an operation is performed when but little prospect of success remains. It is extremely important that the operation should, if possible, be performed before the abdomen becomes tender under pressure. Distension of the intestines from flatus, often produces tension of the abdomen, soon after strangulation has occurred; but still the patient can bear pressure without experiencing pain ; but when he does complain of pain under pressure, it indicates the extension of inflammation to the cavity of the abdomen, which is likely to be much increased by the operation. In this state there is peritoneal inflammation to contend with, which, unfortunately, the operation itself, though the only method of removing the stricture, is calculated to increase ; so that on open- ing the cavity of the abdomen, this inflammation spreads through its cavity and destroys the patient. Therefore as soon as bleeding, the warm bath, the tobacco clyster, and topical cold, have been fairly tried, and have proved unsuccessful, if the abdomen is becoming affected, the operation should be no longer delayed; and, indeed, if the warm bath can- not be conveniently and quickly procured, it is better to omit it altogether, than to endanger the patient’s life by further delay. This soreness upon pressing the abdomen is a much better cri- terion than the time which has elapsed since the occurrence of the first symptoms of strangulation, for there is the utmost variety in u Peritoneal in- flammation. Symptoms indi- cating the neces- sity of an opera- tion. VOL. II.