167 ON FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. experiment, stated, that it became slower as the pressure became increased. In man it is the same—slow and labouring-. After blows have been received on the head, it often happens that upon making an examination of the scalp, there appears to be depression of bone to a great extent, when, in reality, there is none. Let me put you on your guard here. A person receives a blow on the scalp: the parts immediately surrounding the spot where the blow was received will rise, from the extravasation of blood, two or three lines higher than the part itself; for there the cellular membrane, having been condensed by the injury, will likewise tend to increase the deception: thus the surrounding parts are considerably higher than the middle; and the external character of the contusion is certainly calculated to deceive those who are unacquainted wfith the nature of these accidents. I have several times seen these affections; but the first case which I recollect w-as that of a child, brought into Guy’s, who had received a severe blow on the head from a brickbat, which had been thrown at it by a man. All present were prepared for the operation, fully expecting that I should apply the trephine; for they felt convinced that there was considerable depression of bone; and when 1 stated that I should not operate, they exclaimed, “ Good God! I wonder what can be his reason.” This child, after having been freely bled and purged, in two or three days quite recovered. I have often been sent for by my dressers to these cases, and have been requested to bring my instruments with me; but upon examination have found that there was no depression of bone, and that the uneven appearance of the scalp was produced by the causes before mentioned. It also very often happens, in fractures of the cranium, that considerable depression of bone will take place from the external table of the skull being driven into the diploe, and without producing the slightest injury to the internal table; do not, therefore, be precipitate in your diagnosis, nor hastily determine upon performing an operation, which you might afterwards have reason to repent: Apparent depression.