OF HARE-LIP. 462 Case. Case. Case. Case. Case. Practical conclusions. operation upon a child, which was soon after seized with convulsions, and of those convulsions it died. I was requested by Mr. Price, surgeon, in Tower Street, to see a child, born the preceding day with hare-lip. I performed the operation, the infant lost but little blood ; on the following day, when I called upon Mr. Price to accompany him to visit the child, he informed me that it was just dead, and that it had lived only twenty hours after the operation. An infant was brought to my house in Broad Streeet, with hare- lip. 1 operated upon it upon a Monday, and desired that it might be brought to me upon the Thursday ; the mother called upon the Thursday to inform me that the child was dead. During the year 1824 an infant was brought to my house, with a hare-lip of the most simple kind, and its parents were determined to have the operation performed: this was done upon a Monday morning ; on the Tuesday the father of the child came to my house, and said, “ Sir, my child vomited very much last night, and is this morning in a state of stupor.” I directed him to give the infant some calomel, and put it in the warm bath; I called at the house in the evening, when I found that the child was dead. Thus the danger at the infantile period is considerable, and the operation also often fails when the life of the patient is not endangered. 1 operated, in the presence of Mr. Cline, upon an infant, the daughter of the marshal of the King’s Bench, but the lip flew open when the ligatures were removed. I was requested to perform this operation upon a boy about twelve years of age, who had been operated upon in his infancy by one of the first surgeons in the city of London, yet the union had been so imperfect that a second operation was demanded. The conclusions, therefore, as far as my own experience dictates, are these: That prior to six months there is danger of a want of union, and even of the loss of life; that from six months to two years, during the period of dentition, the operation should not be performed; that, after dentition is completed, there is little