384 OF THE DIFFICULTIES AND DANGERS OF Necessary caution. Number of stones. Calculi not always detected. Form of the stone. Sacculi enclosing stones. nients, and the after-flow of urine through the wound will remove sand. Stones are often broken which might be removed whole, if the surgeon were less violent, and more cautious. The mode of preventing them from breaking is, when the stone has been seized with the for- ceps, to put the index finger between the handles, so as to prevent them violently approximating, and to limit the degree of pressure. A number of calculi render the operation more tedious, but not so dangerous as one large stone. It is not the number of times that the forceps are introduced, but the violence used with them, which endangers the patient. When there are several in the bladder, care must be taken that none be left; and the surgeon must not be content with examining by the forceps only, but it is best to pass a sound into the bladder, either by the urethra or by the wound, to feel if any remain; he should also pass his finger into the rectum and raise the prostatic part of the bladder, so as to throw any stone lodged there into the axis of the bladder; as it often happens that the prostate gland is enlarged when several stones exist, and they are generally situated behind this enlargement. In the instances of the greatest number of calculi which I have seen, it was doubted for a length of time if any existed; yet, in one case, the urine had been repeatedly drawn off, and in the other the patient had been several times sounded, but a stone could not be felt:—on examination,after the patient’s death, fifty-six stones were found in the bladder. The form of the stone sometimes adds to the difficulty of its extraction; if its long axis much exceeds its breadth, when seized by the forceps in the centre it will not pass the opening in the bladder, from its extremities projecting on each side of the forceps: the surgeon, finding great resistance, should withdraw the forceps, and passing his finger into the bladder, he should turn the stone, and place its long axis from the fundus to the cervix, after which it can be easily extracted. Sacculi in the bladder sometimes enclose stones so far, that only fhe end projects into its natural cavity, and can be alone felt by the