OF THE OPERATION FOR 134 Fluid. Division of tlie stricture. Seat of. Two strictures. How treated. thumb, carefully excluding any portion of the contents of the sac, and then placing the blade of his knife horizontally, he should cautiously make a small cut into the elevated part, making an aperture of sufficient size to allow of the passage of a director, upon which he should further divide the anterior part of the sac upwards and downwards. A quantity of fluid usually escapes, when the sac is first opened, which varies greatly in quantity, and somewhat in colour, accord- ing to the period that the strangulation has existed. It is not un- common, however, for the fluid to be entirely wanting, even when there are no adhesions. If inflammation runs high, the peritoneal surface of the intestine is covered by adhesive matter. The next and most important step in the operation, consists in dividing the stricture, the situation of which should first be dis- tinctly ascertained by passing the point of the little finger into the hernial sac, on the fore and inner part of its contents. If the hernia be large, the seat of stricture may be at or under the opening in the fascia lata, through which the covering formed by the sheath of the femoral vessels is protruded; but generally, the stricture will be found immediately beneath Poupart’s liga- ment, in the mouth of the sac itself, where the hernia quits the ah- , domen. In either case, a director should be very carefully introduced into the sac, anterior to its contents, and gradually insinuated un- der the stricture, and upon its grove the hernia knife (before de- scribed) should be passed, with its cutting edge turned upwards, and a little inwards, towards the umbilicus, in which direction the stricture should be divided. In some cases, when the hernia is large, strictures may be found both at the crescentic margin of the fascia lata, and under the crural arch of Poupart’s ligament, and each will require division ; that at the fascia lata must of course be first liberated. When a stricture, therefore, exists at the crescentic margin, the surgeon, after dividing it, should make a careful examination, to