BY THE URETHRO-VESICAL FORCEPS. 397 | after a little time relieved him. In the summer of the year 1820, having had occasion to use a great deal of walking exercise in London, for three or four days he was much surprised on passing, first, a considerable quantity of very dark stuff, nearly like coffee- grounds ; and afterwards a considerable quantity of what appeared chiefly blood. He did not experience any pain of consequence I with this; and by the following day his urine was as clear as before. Upon going into the country, he found that if he rode fast at any time, it brought on the passing of the dark stuff, and afterwards, if persisted in, of blood. By degrees he gave up riding, and finally ceased to ride about Christmas last; and finding the same effects to arise, in a slighter degree, from walking much, he has very nearly given up that also, for the last six months. Sir Astley Cooper and Sir Gilbert Blane attended him for these symptoms, in June and July, 1821, when he left London for Ireland ; whilst there, he continued to experience the same incon- i venience as before, with but little pain, and the same on his return to London. Early in June last, he called on Sir Astley Cooper to say he was going again to Ireland, and wished to have some conver- sation with him, when Sir Astley advised his being sounded ; which he then was, and it was ascertained that there was a stone. As it appeared to Sir Astley Cooper to be a small one, he proposed trying to extract it; and on the fourth trial, with intervals of a week or so between them, a stone weighing seventeen grains and a half was extracted on the 18th of July. About three weeks after, Sir William, having some fears that there still remained some stone behind, again applied to Sir Astley Cooper, who, upon sounding, found that such was the case; and on making at that time, at his house, an attempt to extract, he brought it part of the way, but found it too large to bring forward, and therefore returned it; and, as soon after as the parts would permit, he commenced enlarging the passage by bougies, which he continued at intervals for nearly a fortnight, and then extracted a stone weighing fifty- four grains, on the 28th of August, 1822.” Sir William B. suffered pain in making water ; swelling of the