DISLOCATIONS OF THE OS HUMERI. 429 when the arm is rotated from the elbow, the protuberance may be seen to obey the motions of the arm. The coracoid process of the scapula is placed on the outer side of the head of the bone, so that the latter is situated between the scapula and the sternum, and is covered by the pectoralis major muscle. The arm is somewhat shortened, and the elbow is thrown more from the side, and farther back, than in dislocation into the axilla. The axis of the limb is much altered, being thrown in- wards towards the middle of the clavicle. The pain attending this accident is slighter than when the head of the os humeri is thrown into the axilla, because the nerves of the axillary plexus are less compressed ; but the motions of the joint are much more materially affected; the head of the bone becoming fixed by the coracoid process and neck of the scapula on the outside, and by the clavicle above : while the muscles of the scapula, as the supra and infra spinati, and teres minor, being put upon the stretch, confine all its motions inwards and backwards. If, therefore, the arm be attempted to be brought forwards, the head of the bone strikes against the clavicle : if outwards, from the side, the coracoid process stops it: its motion backwards, how- ever, is confined not by bone, but by the resistance of muscles. But the strongest diagnostic marks of this dislocation are these ; the head of the bone is below the clavicle : the elbow is separated from the side, and thrown backwards; and the rotation of the arm gives motion to the head of the bone under the clavicle. Situation of the head of the hu- merus. The degree of pain in this ac- cident. Diagnostic marks. DISSECTION OF THE DISLOCATION FORWARDS. The head of the os humeri is, in this accident, thrown on the inner side of the neck of the scapula, between it and the second and third ribs. I have had no opportunity of dissecting a recent accident of this kind; but in the Museum at St. Thomas’s Hos- pital there is a beautiful specimen of one in a limb which had been long dislocated and which was removed from the shoulder of a patient by Mr. Green, and dissected by Mr. Key, who gave me the following account of the appearances:—The head of the