FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. 301 trochanter major ; because in proportion to its length, by resting against the ilium, the trochanter is prevented from turning for- wards. Directly that the bed-clothes are removed, two circumstances strongly arrest the attention of the surgeon : namely, the diminished length of the injured limb, and the eversion of the foot and knee. In the dislocation upwards, the head and neck of the bone prevent the trochanter from being drawn backwards, whilst the broken and shortened neck of the thigh-bone, in fracture of this part, readily admits it; and hence the reason that the foot is inverted in luxa- tion, and everted in fracture. It is, however, proper to state, that an exception to this rule does now and then exist, and that the limb is found inverted ; but it is of extremely rare occurrence. Several hours must elapse before this eversion assumes its most decisive character, as the muscles require some time to assume a determined contraction ; and this is the reason why the injury has been mis- taken for dislocation on the dorsum ilii. The surgeon having been called soon after the accident has happened, before the muscles had acquired that state of contraction to which they are liable, has been led to mistake the nature of the injury, because the foot is not so decidedly everted as it afterwards becomes; and for this reason patients, even in hospital practice, have been exposed to useless and painful extensions. In fractures of the neck of the bone within the ligament, the patient, when perfectly at rest in the horizontal posture, suffers but little; but any attempt at rotation is attended with some pain, be- cause the broken extremity of the bone then rubs against the inner surface of the capsular ligament, upon which it is drawn by the laction of the muscles. The pain is felt in this accident in the upper and inner part of the thigh, opposite to the insertion of the iliacus and psoas muscles into the trochanter minor, or sometimes just below this point. The perfect extension of the thigh may be easily effected, but flexion is more difficult, and somewhat painful; and its degree ilepends upon the direction in which the limb is bent; if the Degree of pain. Degree of motion.