Dissection of this fracture. Ligament and synovial mem- brane. 4 312 FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. The appearances which are found on the dissection of these in- | juries are as follow:—The head of the bone remains in the acetabu- ! lum attached to the ligamentum teres. There are, upon parts of the head of the bone, very small white spots like ivory. The cervix is sometimes broken directly transversely, at others with obliquity. t| The cancellated structure of the broken surface of the head of the bone and of the cervix, is hollowed by the occasional pressure of the neck attached to the trochanter, and consequent absorption; and this surface is sometimes partially coated with a ligamento-cartilaginous deposit. The cancelli are rendered firm and smooth by friction, ( as we see in other bones which rub upon each other when their articular cartilages are absorbed. Portions of bone are formed or broken off, and these are found either attached by means of liga- ment, or floating loosely in the joint, covered by a ligamentous matter; but the pieces do not act as extraneous bodies, so as to excite inflammation, and thus produce their discharge, any more than those loosened portions of bone covered by cartilage, which are found so frequently in the knee, and sometimes in the hip and elbow-joints. With respect to the neck of the bone which remains attached to the trochanter major, the most remarkable circum- stance is, that it soon becomes in a great degree absorbed, only a small portion of it remaining; its surface is yellow, and ex- tremely smooth, if the bones have rubbed against each other. Some ossific deposition I have seen manifested around this small remaining part of the neck of the bone, and upon the trochanter major and thigh-bone below it, in several examples of this frac- ture. We do not, however, observe the same process of union as in other bones, but a ligamentous instead of an ossific union. The capsular ligament enclosing the head and neck of the bone becomes much thicker than natural, but the synovial mem- brane undergoes the greatest change from inflammation, being very much thickened, not only upon the capsular ligament, but also upon the reflected portion of that ligament upon the neck of the bone, as far as the edge of the fracture.