SYMPTOMS OF INGUINAL HERNIA. 50 Hernial sac connected to the spermatic cord. Acute inflamma- tion of the tes- ticle, mistaken for hernia. From varico- cele. Truss applied for varicocele. This hernia most frequent on the right side. tide; the history of the swelling, its form, the distinctness of the spermatic cord, the want of intestinal obstruction, the absence of dilatation on coughing, and its not returning into the abdomen, are sufficient marks of the latter disease. I have seen, however, diseased testicle complicated with hernia, and have twice been under the necessity of dissecting the hernial sac from the spermatic cord, during the extirpation of the diseased testicles. In one case I opened the sac unintentionally in the operation, but it did not prevent the patient from doing well. The acute inflammation of the testicle is the only state which I have known confounded with hernia; the tenderness of the part, the swelling extending up the cord, and the vomiting accompanying the disease, led to a doubt which could only be removed by a knowledge of the history and progress of the complaint. The disease with which hernia is most frequently confounded is varicocele, or enlargement of the spermatic veins; this is a very common complaint, it occurs most frequently upon the left side, and is supposed to be founded in the termination of the left spermatic vein, at right angles with the emulgent. It sometimes dilates upon coughing; it appears in the erect, and retires in the recumbent position. It is distinguished from hernia by its feel, (which resembles that of a bag of large worms,) by its being un- attended with intestinal obstructions, by placing the patient in the recumbent posture, and emptying the swelling into the abdomen; then pressing the finger upon the external ring to prevent any visceral descent, by which the free return of blood by the spermatic vein is obstructed, and the swelling re-appears when no hernia could escape. I have more than once known a truss applied for this disease, and in one instance to the son of a medical man, by his father. Inguinal hernia occurs more frequently upon the right side than the left, probably because the greatest exertions are made of the right side, from the preference we give to the use of the right arm: two thirds of inguinal herniae are upon the right side.