158 OF THE ISCHIATIC HERNIA. portion of intestine in the ischiatic notch, I became very anxious to obtain the parts; and, after considerable difficulty, we obtained permission to open the body a second time, when I removed the hernia and surrounding parts. Dr. Jones had been requested to visit the patient, a young man about twenty-seven years of age, in consequence of his suffering from symptoms which resembled those produced by strangulated hernia. The patient stated that he had experienced a similar attack before, which had been relieved by opium, followed by a dose of castor oil. Dr. Jones, therefore, gave him some opium, and directed that he should take some pills composed of calomel and scammony, as soon as the stomach appeared tranquil. On the day following, Dr. Jones found that the patient had ex- perienced relief for a short period after taking the opium, but that the pills had been thrown up, and no evacuation had taken place from the bowels. The patient was also much troubled by eructations and flatulence, for which he took some spir. ammoniae comp, and spirit, lavendulae, with good effect. Dr. Jones, feeling confident that the symptoms were produced in consequence of the strangulation of some portion of the intes- tines, now examined the man carefully, but could not detect any protrusion ; nor did tbe patient complain of any local pain which could induce Dr. Jones to inspect the ischiatic notch. As no stools had been procured, some purgative glysters were thrown up, but without producing the desired effect. Other pur- gatives were subsequently given, and glysters were again thrown up, but without affording relief; also leeches and blisters were employed, but they produced only temporary benefit. On the sixth day from the commencement of these symptoms, they sud- denly subsided, excepting that no evacuation from the bowels took place ; and the patient felt himself so well, that he was desirous of going to business; but Dr. Jones advised him to remain quiet for some days. Early on the morning of the seventh day the patient got up, and went down from his bed-room, which was on the fourth