406 DISLOCATIONS OF TIIE CLAVICLE. produced upon the portion of the smooth surface of the inter- articular cartilage, which is applied to the clavicle: and another advantage derived from this mode of articulation is, that it allows of the motion of the bone outwards and backwards to a consider- able extent, without occasioning any weakness in the ligament: for, in this view, it may he considered that there are two liga- ments ; one from the clavicle to the cartilage, and one from the cartilage to the sternum, instead of one loose, long ligament from bone to bone. DISLOCATIONS OF THE STERNAL EXTREMITY OF THE CLAVICLE. These are of two kinds : viz., the dislocation forwards, the cla- vicle being then thrown upon the sternum; or backwards, when the end of the bone is placed behind the sternum. DISLOCATION FORWARDS. The circumstances by which this injury is known are, that upon looking at the upper part of the sternum, a rounded projection is seen; and when the fingers are carried upon the surface of the sternum upwards, this projection stops them. If the surgeon places himself behind the patient, puts his knees between the scapulae, grasps the shoulders and draws them back, the projec- tion on the sternum disappears; but directly when the shoulders advance, the projection upon the sternum is renewed. The clavicle may be readily traced with the finger into the projection on the sternum. If the shoulder be elevated, the projection descends; if it be drawn downwards, the dislocated extremity of the bone becomes elevated to the neck. The motions of the dislocated clavicle are painful, and the patient moves the shoulder with difficulty. The point of the injured shoulder is less distant from the central line of the sternum than usual. In a very thin person the nature of the accident can be at once ascertained, because the bone is but little covered ; but in fat persons it is more difficult to detect. When the patient is at rest, very little pain or tender- ness is felt from the accident. It sometimes happens that this dis- : ' ii IJ1 til if It i lit ii