334 OF THE DISSECTION OF PERSONS DYING WITH Progress of the disease slow. Cause of seirrhus. Mr. Lucas, sen.; the disease returned, and she died. The third has applied to me, from a very painful swelling in the breast: they were unmarried. Therefore, in a family in which one is affected, the first dawn of complaint should be carefully watched, and the general health be well attended to in others. The progress of this disease to its termination is always slow; but in some more so than in others; and it is well that patients, who must fall victims to the disease, should know that it often remains stationary, and that I have seen it in one instance seventeen years; one twenty-two years; in the last case the thigh bone was broken by a very slight accident; and, after several months, appeared to be united, and then again became broken, in an effort to remove her from bed. As I was examining the thigh bone, I observed her breast ulcerated, and asked her how long the disease had existed, and she said twenty-two years. The breast on the left side was absorbed, and a scirrhous swelling, with some enlargement, existed over a large portion of the skin, covering the pectoral muscle. Dr. Babington informed me, that he knew a lady, who had symptoms of the disease twenty-four years. The cause of this disease is supposed to be some accidental blow, or the pressure of a part of the dress; but although a blow may produce a swelling on the bosom, yet that swelling will not be of a scirrhous nature, unless some defective state of the constitution disposes to malignant action. If the constitution be good, the effects of a blow are speedily dissipated; but if the constitution be faulty, the swelling grows into a formidable disease. The complaint is, in part, constitutional, in part local. It is constitutional in so far as the disposition to malignant action is produced by the state of the habit. It is local also, because the action in the part is peculiar, and the result is a specific effusion different to that of common inflammation. A wound, therefore, made into the parts will produce, on scirrhous disease, a cancerous ulcer; but a wound made in removing the swelling, heals like one in any other part of the body. So with respect to the constitution, unless it be changed by a medical treatment, the disease will return as the disposition to malignant action which continues will reproduce it.