ANATOMY OF HERNIA. 21 I the abdominal muscles, from the symphysis pubis to the spinous process of the ilium, the space between these points of bone will | be found to be occupied in the following manner:— From that part of the crural arch extending between the an- terior superior spinous process of the ilium, to the outer edge of the external iliac artery, a strong fascia will be found to arise, ex- tending upwards over the iliacus and psoas muscles; it may be ' traced inwards behind the femoral vessels, as far as the linea ilio- pectinea, being attached at that line to the ligament of the pubes, and to the tendon of the psoas parvus, when that muscle is present. This fascia has been particularly described by Gimbernat, and should be called fascia iliaca. If the fascia iliaca be carefully Fascia iliaca. traced, it will be found to arise from the outer half of the crural arch, in conjunction with the outer portion of the fascia transversalis, the latter ascending before the peritoneum, while the former passes up behind that membrane; they unite at the outer side of the transversalis muscle, and appear as one continuous production. By the union of these two fasciae at Poupart’s ligament, and their separation to inclose the viscera, the contents of the abdomen are thus received into a blind funnel, and are prevented descending on the outer side of the iliac vessels. If the latter vessels be raised, the fascia iliaca will be seen descending behind them, as far down the thigh as the origin of the arteria profunda, thus form- ing the posterior part of the sheath. Fide Plate II. Thus a sheath is formed, enveloping the femoral artery, vein, Femoral sheath, and absorbent vessels, anteriorly by the descent of the fascia trans- versalis, posteriorly by a similar process from the fascia iliaca: and by the union of these at the inner and back part of the sheath the bag is rendered complete. At the upper part the sheath is broad, but as it descends, it becomes more closely applied to the femoral vein and artery, giving it the appearance of a funnel, as is seen in the plate. It is at the upper and inner part of this funnel that the absorbent vessels enter the sheath, giving it, as has been already remarked, a cribriform appearance ; this part of the sheath