341 DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. stances in it; the first was, the great deformity of the knee from the projection of the tibia; the second, the ease with which the bone was reduced by direct extension; and the third, the little inflammation which followed upon what appeared to be so serious m injury; for the man was discharged from the hospital after a few weeks, having suffered little local or no constitutional irri- tation. The tibia is sometimes thrown upon the outer side of the knee- loint, the condyle of the os femoris being placed in the situation of ;he inner semilunar cartilage, or rather behind it, when the same leformity is produced as in the external dislocation. The reduc- ;ion of the limb is equally easy with the former, and the patient recovers with little diminution of the powers of the part. It seems ;o me, that in both these dislocations the tibia is rather twisted ipon the os femoris, so that the condyle of the os femoris, with •espect to the tibia, is thrown somewhat backwards, as well as lutwards or inwards. One of the aldermen of the city of London, riding down High- rate-hill during the night, and not being aware of a rail that was ilaced across a part of the road, which was undergoing repair, the lorse ran against the rail, and turning quickly, threw his rider >ver it, while his leg was confined between the rail and the horse, io that his body was on one side the rail and his leg on the other: he result of this accident was, that he partially dislocated his tibia mtwards, throwing the condyle of the os femoris inwards. Being mmediately taken to a public-house, the tibia was easily replaced; tnd on his removal home, some hours afterwards, means were used o reduce the swelling and inflammation, which became considerable. iVhen he attempted to bear upon the limb he found the capsular igament very feeble, and he was obliged to have a knee-cap made >f very strong leather, to support and connect the bones ; by the lid of this bandage he gradually recovered, and was enabled to valk well, and to do duty on horseback as a light-horse volunteer, icfore twelve months had expired. I was consulted by Mr. Richards respecting Mr. Bovill, a gen- External. Case of dislo- cation outwards.