1.52 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. Case. Case. Concussion is of two grades. in most of which that organ was considerably lacerated, and some extravasation of blood is observable within the brain. (Several beautiful specimens of lacerated brain, accompanied with extrava- sation of blood, were exhibited to the class.) These specimens show the effects produced by severe concussion. I remember a case of a gentleman, an intimate friend of the late Lord Nelson, who fell from his horse at the corner of St. Thomas’s- street, in the Borough. He was immediately taken to Guy’s Hospital, where he was found to have all the symptoms of concus- sion, and he was treated in the usual manner. On examination of the body, after death, (for he died eight days after the accident,) the brain was found to be lacerated in several places, and consi- derable extravasation of blood had taken place. In general, therefore, when the concussion is slight, there will be only an alteration of circulation in the brain ; but when it is severe, there will be laceration, accompanied with extravasation of blood, and the symptoms will be found to run into those of compression. The first case in which I ever saw the brain lacerated from concussion, was one which occurred at the other hospital, in the first year of my apprenticeship, when I was a dresser to Mr. Chandler. As this was the first case of the kind I had seen, I preserved a portion of the brain. The patient had lost the power of speech from a blow on the head ; but there was no appearance of any wound or injury to the skull. Mr. Chandler attributed the loss of speech to concussion. On examination of the body after death, it was found that the anterior lobe of the cerebrum was torn, the first effect of which injury was the loss of the power of utterance, or rather a paralysis of the muscles, which deprived him of the power of speech, and subsequently compression and inflam- mation, of which he died. When you are asked, then, as to the effects of concussion, as they may be collected from the appearances on dissection, you will answer, that when the concussion is slight, it is merely an agitation of the brain, by which the circulation is altered; but when it is severe, the brain itself suffers laceration, which laceration i