460 FRACTURES OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. Principle of treatment. Position. Removal of splints. Case. duced, a bandage should be applied; but in those cases where but little violence is done to the limb, it should be at once secured by bandage. The principle of the treatment is to preserve the power of the limb, by making the separation of the bones as slight as possible, that their ligamentous union may be shortened; and se- condly, to restore the natural motions of the joint. If the swelling and inflammation do not prevent it, the surgeon is to place the arm in a straight position, and to press down the upper portion of the fractured olecranon until he brings it in contact with the ulna; a piece of linen is then laid longitudinally on each side of the joint, a wetted roller is applied above the elbow, and another below it; the extremities of the linen are then to be doubled down over the rollers and tightly tied, so as to cause an approximation: thus the bones are brought and held together: a splint well padded is to be applied upon the fore part of the arm, to preserve it in a straight position, and it is to be confined to it by a circular bandage; the whole is to be frequently wetted with spirits of wine and water. This is the only injury of the elbow-joint which requires the straight position; those of the condyles and coronoid process de- 1 manding that the limb should be kept bent. In a month the splint is to be removed and passive motion is to i be begun; but if it be attempted earlier, the olecranon will sepa- rate from the shaft of the bone, and the ligament become length- ened and weakened. All attempts at motion must be made with the greatest gentleness. Fracture of the olecranon an inch from the point of the elbow into the body of the ulna, requires the same treatment as the com- mon fracture of this portion of bone. Miss , aged thirty, fell from her horse on her elbow, and broke the ulna one inch from the point of the olecranon. It was kept bent three months, and no extension could be produced by any effort of herself. I forcibly straightened the arm, and kept it so by a wooden splint. Bony union may, in this case, be readily produced.