360 OF THE RENAL, OR KIDNEY CALCULUS. Sometimes removed by ulceration. Case. Opening to be dilated. Kidney en- larged. passed; but he did not experience any relief from their employ- ment. After I left the city, I was informed that he was dead; and upon inspection of his body, no disease of the bladder or urethra was found, but a large stone was discovered in the kidney. Nature sometimes succeeds in removing these extraneous bodies by a process of ulceration; an opening being formed in the loins, through which a stone can be felt, by passing a probe, and by which the calculus is ultimately discharged. A person came to consult me from the country, with two open- ings, one above and one below the last rib, through which three calculi had been discharged. Dr. Marcet analyzed these, and found them to be composed of the ammoniaco-magnesian phos- phate. If the calculus cannot readily pass, from the small size of the opening, the aperture should be dilated by sponge tent; if this fails, a bistory may be carefully used, as the artery and vein are before the stone. A stone in the kidney, when very large, may, in some instances, be felt through the loins. Mr. Cline informed me, that a patient consulted him who had this disease, in whom he could distinctly feel the stone, by pressing firmly on the loins; the patient’s general health would not at that time bear an operation, otherwise Mr. Cline would have removed the stone by incision. Upon dissection of persons dying with calculi in the kidney, there are found— First, Sometimes numerous small calculi, like grains of sand, in the tubuli uriniferi. Secondly, A stone lodged in an infundibulum, or often several, occupying different infundibula. Thirdly, A large stone in the pelvis of the kidney, connected by processes to others, seated in the infundibula. The kidney is sometimes scarcely altered in its size, at others it becomes considerably enlarged. If the stone interrupts the passage of the urine to the ureter, the glandular structure of the kidney becomes absorbed, the pelvis and infundibula extremely enlarged,