ON ERYSIPELAS. 143 In gangrene of the extremities there is not this mechanical obstruction to the sloughing of the dead part. And though gangrene is generally difficult to cure, yet carbuncle usually does well, except when situated on the head or neck. Though persons will recover from carbuncles of an enormous size upon the back, yet very small ones on the head or neck will often destroy life; indeed I never saw a patient who recovered from carbuncle upon the head ; in these cases there is effusion between the tunica arachnoides and pia matter. The inflammation which attends fistula in ano will sometimes destroy the cellular membrane of the neighbouring parts, thereby occasioning an enormous quantity of the nates to slough, and yet the patient shall do well. Treatment.—The peculiar treatment of carbuncle consists in Treatment, making upon the surface of the swelling, at an early period of the disease, a large crucial incision, for the purpose of affording the deadened parts an opportunity of escaping; then apply the port wine poultice, and give the patient such stimulants as will tend to increase the vigour of his constitution, and here we shall again find opium and ammonia our sheet anchors. ON ERYSIPELAS. Inflammation of the skin is generally extensive. Why? In Erysipelas, consequence of the surface being unbroken. Thus, when the pleura or peritoneum is attacked by inflammation, the whole of these membranes usually become affected by it; and also when erysipelatous. Inflammation invades the skin, it is not uncommon to see it run jts seat> from one part to another, till half the body is covered by it. Sometimes it is ushered in by fever, and sometimes not. Certain constitutions are sooner affected by it than others, and often its effects appear to be entirely local. But unquestionably it affects the constitution more frequently than otherwise. Its characteristic appearances are, a florid skin, with vesicles Characteristic containing a secretion of an amber colour under the raised cuticle. marks>