292 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. wheel of a cart, which knocked him down. He was taken up by some persons passing, who, finding that he was not able to walk, took him to St. Thomas’s Hospital. The accident happened about nine o’clock in the evening, and I was sent for between twelve and one o’clock, when I found a dislocation of the right femur on the pubis; the particulars of which were as follow. The head of the bone could be distinctly felt below Poupart’s ligament, immediately on the outer side of the femoral vessels. The foot and knee were turned outwards, with very little alteration in the length of the limb. The thigh was not flexed towards the abdomen, and almost immoveable, admitting only of partial ad- duction and abduction. The limb could be rotated outwards, but not at all inwards. I immediately had the man taken into the ope- rating theatre, and speedily succeeded in reducing the dislocation by the following means:—The patient was placed on his left side, a broad band was passed between the thighs, and, being tied over the crista of the ilium on the right side, was made fast to a ring fixed in the wall. A wet roller having been put on above the right knee, a bandage was buckled over it, and its straps attached to the hooks of the pulleys, by which a gradual extension was, * made, drawing the thigh a little backwards and downwards. When FJ this extension had been kept up a short time, I directed another bandage to be applied round the upper part of the thigh, close to the perinaeum, by means of which the head of the bone was raised, and in the course of a few minutes the reduction was easily ac- complished. The patient had not been bled, or taken any medi- cine ; he suffered but little after the reduction, and was able to * walk without pain or inconvenience five or six days afterwards. On the day following the accident, he could move the limb in all directions without pain, but did not attempt to walk until the of dislocations, I believe that the relative proportion of cases will be in twenty as follows : —twelve on the dorsum ilii; Jive in the ischiatic notch ; two in the foramen ovale ; and one on the pubes. period I have mentioned. From what I have had an opportunity of observing on the subject