29 PARTS FORMING HERNIA. The internal oblique is now seen proceeding from the outer half or even two-thirds of Poupart’s ligament in a curved direction i downwards and inwards towards the pubis, where behind the ex- ternal ring it is inserted. In this course the muscle describes an arch, principally formed of fleshy fibres, although on the inner , part it is tendinous. This arch crosses the spermatic cord at the j distance of about an inch on the iliac side of the external ring ; 1 and is so disposed that whilst the internal oblique, at its attach- i ment to Poupart’s ligament, is anterior to the cord, the part of the i muscle towards its insertion in the pubis, is behind the cord. The transversalis observes very nearly the same disposition, I excepting that its origin is confined to about the outer third of Poupart’s ligament. The student will now observe the cremaster muscle, investing j the cord. The fibres pass off partly from the muscular arch of ( the internal oblique, partly from Poupart’s ligament, and partly on the inner side, from the tendon of the internal oblique behind | the external ring. The cremaster thus arising by a long external ' and a short internal origin, consists of pale brownish fibres, which, with their connecting cellular tissue, constitutes a kind of sheath around the spermatic cord. This investment is continued into the scrotum, where, in a favourable subject, the fibres may be seen to open, and describe large curves over the testicle, being i more especially inserted into the prolongation of the fascia trans- ! versalis. If the body be thin and emaciated, the cremaster is very indistinct, particularly at its insertion. Having proceeded thus far, the internal oblique and transversa- lis are to be detached from Poupart’s ligament, but it is import- ant to bear in mind that the muscular arch across the cord and the insertion behind the external ring, are to be left intact. In per- forming this part of the dissection, care must also be taken not to disturb the fascia transversalis, which, from its connection with the common tendon of the two muscles, is very liable to be divided. We now arrive at that ligamentous membrane which, beneath Internal oblique and transver- salis. Cremaster. Fascia trans- versalis.