316 FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. fat, in the dissecting-room of St. Thomas’s Hospital, I found that the gentleman who had dissected one limb, had cut through the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, and tried to remove the head of the thigh-bone from the acetabulum; but the neck of the bone broke on the employment of a very slight force, and upon a further trial to remove it, the bone crumbled under his fingers. As the other limb was not yet dissected, I requested Mr. South, o one of our demonstrators, to remove with care the upper part of the thigh-bone ; but although he used great caution in doing it, he could not remove the bone without fracturing the upper part of its shaft; but he succeeded in removing the upper part of the bone, so that it might be preserved. We have here, then, a case in which the neck of the bone was absorbed, so that the head was brought in contact with the trochanter ; in which, most decidedly, there had not been a frac- ture, although it had in some parts the appearance of one ; and in which the disease occurred in each hip-joint. Another case of the same kind was examined by Mr. South, dur- ing the last winter, which, so far as it relates to the softened state of the upper part of the thigh-bone, W'as similar to the former; the heads were spongy, the necks were shortened, so that there was scarcely any remaining; each trochanter was light in weight, spongy, and very large; and there was little if any motion in either of the hip-joints ; so that both limbs appeared, at first sight, as if dislocated upon the pubes. But the best specimen of this state of the bone is the following, which I preserve with the most assiduous care, and value in the highest possible degree : I have had for twenty years in the collec- tion of St. Thomas’s Hospital, the thigh-bone of an old person, in which the head of the bone had sunken towards its shaft. I have been in the habit of shewing this bone twice a year as a specimen how bones sometimes become soft from age and disease, and from the absorption of their phosphate of lime; and I have frequently cut with a penknife both its head and its condyles to shew this soft- ened state. On sawing through its cervix, the cartilage, deprived