ON COMPRESSION Or THE BRAIN. 162 Recapitula- tion. Treatment. First, between the dura mater and pia mater. Second, between the pia mater and brain; and, lastly, within the substance of the brain itself. In this case (Sir Astley pointing to a specimen on the table before him) there was a considerable quantity (three ounces), the largest I ever saw effused beneath the dura mater. In this also (pointing to another) there was a large quantity extravasated opposite to the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone and meatus auditorius externus; and the dura mater itself was torn. Second, between the pia mater and brain: this is of more common occurrence; and in this case a large portion of the brain will often be found covered over with blood, not that the quantity of blood extravasated is considerable, but a little is diffused over a large space. This portion of brain before me was taken from a man who fell, I believe, from the yard-arm of a ship, and who was carried to the other hospital (Guy’s); he died four hours after his admission; and on examining, after death, the vessels going from the pia mater to the brain were completely torn through. Third, within the substance of the brain itself; this (alluding to a specimen on the table) was taken from a person in the city, who had extravasation within the brain from an accident; after the injury he considerably recovered, though pain still continued in the head; in three months afterwards he died, and on examination there was found in the anterior lobe of the cerebrum a coagulum of blood, no portion of which had been absorbed, as the surfaces close to the brain were quite smooth. These are the three situations in which extravasated blood is principally formed. I do not find any difference of symptoms produced by the different situations of the blood; the compression is produced by the pressure of the blood, and the quantity of blood effused will depend on the size of the vessel of the dura mater that is divided: whatever is the situation then of the blood, the symptoms of compression are the same: if there should be any blood resting on the origin of a nerve, there will be partial paralysis of the part which that nerve supplies. In the treatment of these cases there is little to be done. If I