DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. 2.54 Elbow-joint dis- locations. Difficulty of re- duction. Capsular liga- ments. diseases of the hip-joint, in which the dislocation has arisen from ulceration. A child was brought to me from one of the counties north of London, for whom repeated extensions had been made by one of those people called bone-setters,—but who ought rather to be* called dislocators,—for a supposed dislocation of the hip-joint.1 Upon examination, I found it to be that disease of the hip so com- mon in children: and for this only, was a child wantonly exposed to a most painful extension.—That in this enlightened country,’ men, without education, should be suffered with impunity to de- grade a most useful profession, and torture those who have the folly or the simplicity to apply to them, is a disgrace to our laws, that calls loudly for prevention. Dislocations of the elbow-joint in children are said to be of fre- quent occurrence. Surgeons have been heard to say, “ I have a child under my care with luxation of its elbow’, and I can easily return the bone into its place, but it directly dislocates again.” Such a case is, in reality, an oblique fracture of the condyles of the os humeri, which produces the appearance of dislocation, by allowing the radius and ulna, or the ulna alone, to be drawn back with the fractured condyle, so as to produce considerable projec-, tion at the posterior part of the joint. TREATMENT. The reduction of dislocations is often difficult; and in some of the joints, the form of the bone may occasion impediments. Thus, when the socket is surrounded by a lip of bone, as in the hip- joint, the head of the bone, during the act of reduction, stops al this projection, and requires to be lifted over it; another difficulty occurs when the head of the bone is much larger than its cervix : as for example, in the dislocation of the head of the radius; but still these causes are slight in comparison with others which wc have to detail. The capsular ligaments are by some supposed to resist reduc- f