41G DISLOCATIONS OF THE OS HUMERI. Cause of the frequency of dislocation. Four kinds of dislocation. Downwards and inwards. Forwards. Backwards. Partial disloca- tions. Of the disloca- tion upwards. Dislocation in the axilla. of the os humeri it adheres to the surface of this tendon, so that the synovia is prevented from escaping. The shoulder-joint has a greater extent and variety of motion j than any other joint in the body ; and its dislocations are, con- sequently, more frequent than those of all the other joints in the body collectively: those of the ancle-joint being next in fre- quency. DISLOCATIONS OF THE OS HUMERI. This bone is liable to be thrown from the glenoid cavity of the scapula in four directions; three of these luxations are complete, and one is only partial. The first is downwards and inwards; it is usually called the dislocation into the axilla, and in this accident the bone rests upon the inner side of the inferior costa of the scapula. The second is forwards upon the pectoral muscle, when the head of the os humeri is placed below the middle of the clavicle, and on the sternal side of the coracoid process. The third is the dislocation backwards, when the head of the bone j can be both felt and distinctly seen, forming a protuberance on the back and outer part of the inferior costa of the scapula, and situated upon its dorsum. The fourth is only partial, when the anterior portion of the capsular ligament is torn through, and the head of the bone is found resting against the coracoid process of the scapula, on its outer side. It has been supposed that a dislocation of the os humeri up- wards might occur, but it is obvious that this could only happen under fracture of the acromion. It is an accident which I have never seen. Of the dislocation in the axilla I have seen a multitude of in- stances ; of that forwards on the inner side of the coracoid process several, although these are much less frequent than that in the axilla; of the dislocation backwards I have seen only two instances during the practice of my profession for thirty-eight