293 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. The cases l have here detailed, with the dates at which they were presented, manifest the frequent occurrence of this accident to the thigh. How it escaped the observation of surgeons of emi- \ nence of former times, is a matter of surprise that can only be | accounted for by the difficulties which then existed in the pursuit 1 of anatomy, and more especially of morbid anatomy ; and it is a curious circumstance, that Mr. Sharpe, formerly surgeon of Guy’s Hospital, author of a Treatise on Surgery, and in many respects an excellent surgeon, who had a large share of the practice of this metropolis, did not, as I was informed by Mr. Cline, believe that a dislocation of the thigh-bone ever occurred. It is gratifying to observe the advancement of knowledge in the profession at the present period, compared with that of fifty years ago. What should we think of a surgeon of the present day, with all his opportunities of seeing disease in the large hospitals of this ■ city, who doubted the existence of a dislocation of the thigh, when we find that our provincial surgeons immediately detect the nature of these injuries, 'and generally succeed in their attempts to reduce them ? Let them never forget, however, that it is to the know- ledge of anatomy, and more especially of morbid anatomy, that !;hey are indebted for this superiority. FRACTURES OF THE OS INNOMINATUM. As these accidents are liable to be mistaken for dislocations, and Mistakes, is any extension made for them adds extremely to the patient’s sufferings, and would be liable to produce fatal consequences if here existed previously a probability of recovery, I am anxious o say a few words upon them. When a fracture of the os innominatum happens through the Symptoms, icetabulum, the head of the bone is drawn upwards, and the tro- •hanter somewhat forwards, so that the leg is shortened, and the cnee and foot are turned inwards: such a case may be readily nistaken for dislocation into the ischiatic notch. If the os inno- ninatum is disjointed from the sacrum, and the pubes and ischium re broken, the limb is a slight degree shorter than the other; but