COUNTF.R-IltRITATION IN INFLAMMATION. 47 Another mode of producing counter-irritation is by the application Tartarized an- . . . timony. of tartarized antimony made into an ointment. This is a very excel- lent method, and is now very generally adopted. You must be careful, however, on what surfaces you apply it, if you intend to excite irritation in a great degree, as it is apt, permanently, to dis- figure the skin. I saw a young lady who had used it on the arm for a chronic inflammation of the elbow joint. She was offended with her medical attendants for having recommended its employ- ment, as it left a scar near the elbow which has since obliged her to wear long sleeves. Such a defect you would not like to see in your sister or friend; therefore, it is nothing more than right that you should endeavour to obviate its occurrence; and this you may always do by proper attention. The next circumstance to be attended to in the treatment of Posture, inflammation is position. Medical men do not consider the human body as an hydraulic machine; nor indeed is it so; but still the fluids of the body are; in some measure, governed by the laws of gravity. Look at the operation that I spoke of in the last lecture, for relieving inflammation of the testicle. If you puncture the veins in front of the scrotum, and if the patient be in the erect position, blood will freely flow; but put him in a recumbent position, the stream will immediately cease; though, when the body is thus placed, the power of the heart is greater than when in the erect position. If, during the ensuing winter, I should be called to any of you Punctures; to having inflammation in the hand, arising from punctures inflicted plane* while dissecting, I should immediately direct you to get an inclined plane made, upon which I should order you to rest your hand as long as the inflammation was at all violent. It is equally necessary to attend to position in inflammation of position in in- the leg. I must give you an example; I was sent for, to see a HammjLtionof gentleman farmer in the neighbourhood of Rayleigh, in Essex, who for a long time had been subject to a very severe inflammation in both his legs; they were exceedingly red and very much swollen, in a state threatening gangrene; the constitutional irritation was very