FRACTURES OF THE KNEE. 350 Causes. Blows or actions of the muscles. Case. Case. Explanation of it. Mode of union. is felt in this fracture, for the bones cannot be brought sufficiently near each other to give this general discriminating mark of other fractures. The separation of the bones is much increased by bending the knee, as it removes the lower from the upper portion of bone, pulling down the tibia, ligamentum patellae, and the lower part of the bone from the upper. This accident arises from two causes : first, from blows upon the bone produced by falls upon the knee, or received upon the patella in the erect position of the body; and secondly, from the action of the extensor muscles upon the bone. A gentleman walking in the country, and not used to jumping, leaped a ditch of considerable breadth; and when he reached the opposite bank he was in danger of falling, and ran forward several steps, and with difficulty recovered himself. In this attempt to save himself from a fall, he felt the patella snap ; and I was sent for to him, and found his patella broken, and the portions of bone considerably separated. A lady descending some stairs, placed her heel near the edge of one of the stairs, and was in danger of falling forwards, when throwing her body somewhat backwards, to prevent the fall and to straighten the knee, the patella became broken. That a bone should thus .break by the action of muscles, ap- pears at first sight incomprehensible ; but the solution of this circumstance is easily given. When the knee is bent, the patella is drawn down on the end of the condyles of the os femoris, so as to bring the upper edge of the bone forwards; and at that mo- ment it is that the patella is broken, by the rectus muscle not act- ing in a line with the bone, but at right angles with it, or nearly so, and upon its upper edge more particularly. With respect to the mode of union of this bone, whether the separation be great or inconsiderable, it is generally effected by an intervening ligamentous substance. The bone itself undergoes but little alteration ; the lower portion, joined by ligament to the patella, has its broken cancellated structure still apparent, al-