INGUINAL HERNIA. 87 Third.—At the external ring. The most frequent seat of stricture is at the internal abdominal ring, from an inch and a half to two inches above, and outwards i from the external ring, and it is occasioned by the pressure of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles upon the mouth of the hernial sac, which becomes thickened, more especially on its pubic side. Should the stricture be situated at this part, it has been thought necessary to divide the external ring, and to slit up in part the inguinal canal, by dividing a portion of the tendon of the external oblique muscle, in order to give the operator a distinct view of the protruded parts, and to enable him to divide the stricture without danger to his patient. This may be done by passing the finger into the sac, through the external ring, as far as the seat of | stricture, and then introducing a curved bistoury witli a probed I extremity between the upper part of the finger and the sac, and cutting through the tendon, superficial fascia, and integument, forming the anterior boundary of the inguinal canal. Having thus exposed the contents of the hernial sac as far as the seat of stricture, the operator should insinuate the point of his finger, or a director, under the stricture, between the sac and its contents at the upper part, carefully keeping the latter from turn- ing over the finger or director. He should then pass the knife for dividing the stricture upon the finger or director, under the stricture, and by a gentle motion divide the stricture in a direction parallel with that of the linea alba, and to an extent sufficient to allow the finger to be easily passed into the cavity of the abdomen. The knife should then be withdrawn in a careful manner. In this case I have adopted with advantage the following plan:—The sac being opened to the external ring, I have put my finger into it, and hooked down the sac; I have then directed an assistant to draw up the tendon of the external oblique at the ring, and have thus been able to bring tbe stricture into view without cutting the tendon of the external oblique to the upper ring. The knife best adapted for dividing the stricture is blunt at its At the internal ring. How exposed. Division of the stricture. Knife for divid- ing the stricture.