332 FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. Concluding ob- servation. The fracture of the trochanter major may be easily known by the separation of the bone at the part, so that the finger may be placed between the fractured portions,—by the distinct crepitus felt in putting the fingers on the trochanter when the knee is advanced, —by inability of the upper portion of the trochanter to obey the motions of the lower, and of the shaft of the bone,—and when at the lower part of the trochanter, by great overlapping, distension, and exuberant callus. I have thus stated what dissection and observation have taught me of the three fractures of the upper part of the thigh-bone, and shewn it to be a general principle, that fractures within the capsule do not unite by bone. I ought to add, that, in the Mu- seum of Mr. Langstaff, there is a preparation of fractures within, and of one external to the ligament; the latter firmly united by bone, whilst the former has scarcely undergone any ossific change. I can have no wish but that these fractures within the capsule should unite by bone, if that result be desirable. I only state what dissection has taught me ; and with respect to the con- trivances to produce their union, I cannot extol them until there be some evidence of their value. FRACTURE OF THE EPIPHYSIS OF THE TROCHANTER MAJOR. Mr. Key, surgeon to Guy’s Hospital, had the kindness to send me the following account of a peculiar fracture of the trochanter major, in which this process was broken from the thigh-bone at the part at which it is naturally united by cartilage as an epi- physis in youth. The subject of this accident was a young girl about the age of sixteen, who tripped in crossing the street, and in falling, struck her trochanter violently against the curb-stone. She immediately rose, and without much pain or difficulty walked home. The acci- dent occurred on Saturday, March 15th, 1822; and, in conse- quence of the increase of pain she experienced on the inner side of the thigh, she presented herself at Guy’s for admission on the Thursday following. Her constitutional symptoms being evidently