Case. Anecdote. Dry tapping. 452 OF THE operation of paracentesis. into one; but when the operation is performed early, the escape of water is only from a single small cyst. Before performing the operation in the encysted dropsy, as the fluctuation is much less distinct than in ascites, the greatest care is required to prevent an error. I will here mention two circumstances, in one of which my character was exposed to considerable risk ; of the other I was informed by a medical man who was invited to witness the operation. In the first case, I was desired to see a lady who I was told laboured under dropsy. When I entered the room, I saw a tall delicate female with an immense abdominal swelling, giving a distinct sense of fluctuation. I requested the physician accoucheur whom I met, to examine if the lady was not with child ; he said, he thought it was unnecessary, as the fluctuation was very distinct, but that he would do so, and let me know the result in a few days. I heard no more of her for a week, and then I learned that she had been put to bed on the morning following my visit. I would not have performed the operation of paracentesis for the universe. The circumstances which were told me of the other case were as follow : A surgeon in a country town called upon another surgeon, and said, “ I am going to tap a woman to-morrow; perhaps your young gentlemen would like to be present.” As it was an operation they had never witnessed, they most readily accepted the invitation; they w'ere shown into a room in which the patient was already prepared to undergo the operation, she sitting at one end, with her abdomen bare. The surgeon then, taking his trocar and canula, went to some distance, and walking up to the patient with the trocar presented, he charged, as it were with a bayonet, and plunged it into the abdomen; then withdrawing the trocar with an air of triumph, it was with no small chagrin he found not a drop of water escape; but however, still undismayed, he withdrew the canula, and again renewing his attack, he a second time introduced the trocar into the abdomen ; but was equally unfortunate as before, in finding that no water followed. Waiting a few moments, he withdrew the canula, and turning round to the gentlemen, he said,