17 TREATMENT OF IRRTTATION. When constitutional irritation arises from a local cause, the remedies must be chiefly directed to the removal of that cause, or ^ to lessen its effects on the constitution; but, on the contrary, when local disease is either promoted or aggravated by constitutional de- rangement, then your remedy must be directed to the disorder of the system; and as that improves, so will the local affections disappear. A short time since, a case of compound fracture was brought Case into Guy’s Hospital. For the first five days there was no alter- ation; after a time, however, the man’s constitution suffered very considerably; a probe was passed into the w'ound, and a loose portion of bone was found pressing against the tibialis anticus; the part was dilated by a scalpel; the detached bone extracted; the con- stitution began to recover its former vigour, the patient’s health very rapidly improved, and he is now discharged cured. A case of simple fracture of the superior portion of the tibia was Case admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital, which was followed by violent irritation of the whole system. The whole limb became inflamed, and matter formed at the seat of the fracture. After a short time it was thought proper to amputate the limb, when on examining it afterwards, small pieces of bone were found, which kept up the irritation. The patient soon recovered from the operation. Constitutional irritation must not be too suddenly subdued nor Constitu- destroyed, as a certain degree of irritation shows that nature is endeavouring to accomplish the restorative process ; keep it within bounds, carefully watch its progress, and, if necessary, check its violence, but do not entirely destroy it. There are two means of reducing irritation. Means of al- First, by restoring to the different organs their various secretions, ttom'8 imW by which the outlets become opened, and fever lessened. A man who has his skin hot and dry, and his body altogether hot, will feel well and be relieved, if you can produce on the surface a free per- spiration. To produce the secretions from the intestinal canal, you must give aperients; but when the irritation is very severe indeed, you must not limit your medicine to any particular part, but endea- vour to restore all the secretions. This will be best accomplished