389 DISLOCATIONS OF TIIE ANCLE-JOINT. directly after an accident of this kind. I found the lower extremity of the tibia, with the astragalus loosely attached to it, projecting at the inner ancle. The wound was not large, and the soft parts were little injured. I removed the astragalus, and reduced the tibia, leaving it to rest on the os calcis. 1 did not again see my patient during the healing of the wound ; I believe it got well without any severe symptoms, but the os calcis was drawn up against the pos- terior part of the tibia, to which it firmly united, and the foot became immoveable, with the toe pointed downwards. In this | state he came to Bath two years afterwards, when I amputated the leg, and the patient did well. George Norman. Bath, August, 2d, 1819. 11. Amputation has been recommended in those Cases in which Tetanus occurs after this Injury. Of tetanus I have seen one case from compound dislocation of Tetanus, the ancle, and have heard of another. That which I saw was in i Mr. Yare, stable-keeper, who had a compound dislocation of the tibia inwards, and in whom I reduced the bones, and placed the limb on its outer side. For a few days he proceeded without any alarming symptoms. The only circumstance in which his j case differed from what I expected, was in the slight inflammation which succeeded upon the joint; for the restorative process seemed to be scarcely established in him. When I paid him my morning visit, several days after the accident, he said, “ Sir, I believe I have caught cold, for my neck is stiffand as fl he said this with his jaws closed, I begged him to shew me his tongue, to ascertain if the jaw was locked : and he tried to i open his mouth, but was unable to do so. I then desired that Dr. Ralph might see him, who did all that his mind could suggest to arrest the progress of the symptoms, but unsuccessfully, as the different muscles of volition became affected in the back, the extremities and the abdomen, until he was exhausted by irritation. To amputate under such circumstances would be most unjusti-