336 DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. Ligaments. defended by the patella, which has two unequal articular surfaces to play upon the condyles of the os femoris. The head of the fibula forms no part of the knee-joint, but is attached to the tibia from one half to three-fourths of an inch below its head. The junction of the os femoris, tibia, and patella, is produced by means of a capsular ligament, which proceeds from the os femoris to the head of the tibia, and is attached to the edge of the patella, where it divides into two portions, forms wings to that bone, and takes the name of the alar ligament. On its outer side the cap- sular ligament is covered, and greatly strengthened, by tendinous expansions, which are derived from the vasti muscles, and which proceed to the head of the tibia. Internally the ligament has a secreting synovial surface, which is folded within the cavities at the extremities of the bones, is reflected to the edge of the arti- cular cartilages, and it is believed, forms a covering to those car- tilages. Besides the capsular, there are several peculiar ligaments. First: The ligamentum patellae, which are extended from the lower point of the patella to the tubercle of the tibia. Secondly: The external lateral or femoro-fibular ligament, which passes from h the os femoris to the head of the fibula, and which divides into 51 two external lateral ligaments. Thirdly: The internal lateral or femoro-tibial ligament, attached to the os femoris and to the head it of the tibia. Fourthly : The oblique or popliteal ligament, which proceeds from the external condyle of the os femoris obliquely, to be inserted into the head of the tibia. Fifthly: The crucial liga- ments, which pass from the depression between the condyles of the os femoris behind; the one to a projection between the articular surfaces of the head of the tibia, and the other to a depression be- hind that projection, so that these ligaments cross each other from before backwards. The patella has a muscular connection with the os femoris by the insertion of the rectus, vasti, and cruralis. By the ligamentum patellae it is united with the tibia, and laterally it is joined to the capsular and alar ligaments. This ligamentous junction of the three bones is very firm, but it allows of free flexion and extension, with some degree of rotatory motion when the knee