TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 31 of the influence of the injury on the constitution, the treatment must be invariably constitutional, let the local be whatever it may; for no vital organ can be disturbed in its functions without producing general derangement, which will be, more or less, in proportion to the importance of the part wounded, and the extent of the wound. Inflammation, however, in many persons, requires constitutional treatment, whether any important part be injured or not; as, in irritable habits, where very trivial local damage will speedily affect the entire system. The most powerful means of relieving inflammation is by the Bleeding, abstraction of blood. Its beneficial effects principally result from producing a diminution of nervous power; and that it does accomplish this, is proved by the syncope which it occasions. Thus, often the removal of a very small quantity of blood even causes a suspension of the mental faculties, as well as of all the voluntary functions. Fainting, however, cannot be suddenly produced unless the patient Modus ope- be in the erect position at the time the blood is drawn; for it is the loss of this fluid by the vessels of the brain, which is the immediate cause of fainting. To prove this, when you next bleed a man until he faints, place him in the recumbent posture, and let his head be situated a little lower than his body, to facilitate the return of blood to the brain: in a very short time after being thus placed he will open his eyes, and all his faculties will resume their former abode. The second mode by which bleeding relieves, is by lessening the quantity of blood; for when there is much fulness of the vessels, the momentum will necessarily be great, and consequently the vital fluid will be thrown with greater power, not only to the inflamed, but to every other part of the body. The third mode by which bleeding proves serviceable, is by faci- litating the re-establishment of the secreting functions. The indication for bleeding is a hard pulse. In this state of Indication for the pulse the diameter of the vessel is diminished, yet the action is exceedingly strong, and each pulsation of the artery feels like the vibration of a wire: whenever, therefore, you find this description of pulse, you will be justified in taking away blood. venesection.