381 THE OPERATION FOR THE STONE. he finds it enlarg-ed laterally, he must use a large gorget, or else divide freely with the knife. If it he an enlargement of the third lobe, the circumstance is known hy the passage of the staff, which only enters the bladder by its handle being greatly depressed ; also by the stone being felt distinctly at one time and not at another; and here let me observe, that when this happens in sounding, I have generally found some difficulty in the operation. The curved forceps are proper to be used in this form of disease. The enlarged prostate gland often gives rise to another difficulty, by occasioning a sac to be formed immediately behind it, in which the stone is principally lodged, its extremity only projecting into the bladder so as to be felt by the forceps; in this case the curved forceps are required, and the finger must be passed up the rectum, to raise the stone from this situation, and to bring it into the axis of the bladder. A portion of the prostate is sometimes nearly separated in extract- ing the stone, so as to be afterwards pendulous into the bladder; this occasions symptoms somewhat similar to those of the stone to remain. This happened to Mr. Cline, who operated upon a gentleman very successfully as to the immediate result, but wrho, after his recovery from the operation, found all the symptoms of stone return. He lived a long time after, and before his death desired that his body might be opened. Mr. Ramsden inspected the parts, and sent me the bladder, which is now in the collection at St. Thomas’s Hos- pital, and a portion of the prostate gland hangs by a narrow neck into the bladder; this portion, by falling on the urethra, produced the symptoms. From the enlargement of the third lobe of the prostate gland, little advantage is, on the same account, derived from the operation of lithotomy, as the patient still experiences all the symptoms of stone, excepting that the urine is not usually bloody; but even this circumstance I have known to happen. I have seen a difficulty arise in performing this operation, from a partial contraction of the bladder, by which the stone has been Middle en- largement. Sac behind the prostate. Part of the prostate nearly detached. Enlargement of the third lobe. Contraction of the bladder.