DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. 375 rest upon its outer side: but in the dislocation outwards, it is best to keep the limb upon the heel, with a splint and foot-piece both upon the outer and the inner side ; and an aperture in the splint opposite the wound. In each dislocation the patient’s knee is to be slightly bent, to relax the gastrocnemius muscle. The foot must be carefully pre- vented from being pointed ; great care being taken to preserve it at right angles with the leg, otherwise the limb will be useless when the wound is healed. The patient is to be placed on a mattress, and a pillow is to reach from half way above the knee to beyond Ithe foot, and another is to be rolled under the hip, to support the upper part of the thigh-bone. Blood-letting must be adopted, or not, according to the powers of the constitution; as it is necessary to bear in mind, that the patient has a great trial of his powers to undergo, and will require throughout the process of restoration, all the support which his strength can receive. Purgatives must also be used with the utmost caution; for there cannot be a worse practice, when a limb has been placed in a good position, and adhesion is proceeding, than to disturb the processes of nature by the frequent changes of position which purges produce; and I am quite sure, that in cases of compound fracture, I have seen patients destroyed by their frequent administration. That which is to be done by bleeding, |and emptying the bowels, should be effected as soon as is possible after the accident, before the adhesive inflammation arises; after which the liquor ammoniae acetatis, and tinctura opii, form the patient’s best medicine, with a slight aperient at intervals. If the patient complain of considerable pain in the part, in four or five days, the bandage may be raised to examine the wound; and if there be much inflammation, a corner of the lint should be lifted from the wound, to give vent to any matter which may be formed; but this ought to be done with great circumspection, as there is danger of disturbing the adhesive process, if that be pro- ceeding without suppuration. By this local treatment, it will every now and then happen that the wound will be closed by adhesion; Constitutional treatment. Blood-letting. Purging. Secondary treatment.