ON ANEURISM. 197 received a severe blow on his spine, which did not, however, produce any immediate ill effect. Some time after, having been much exposed to changes of weather, he was suddenly seized with pain in his back, which was followed by paralysis, retention of urine, and involuntary discharge of faeces. I was requested to see him on account of the retention of urine, and attended him for a length of time, for the purpose of using the catheter. For several weeks his symptoms remained unchanged, excepting the appearance of a troublesome sore on the nates. Towards the close of his existence, he complained of much uneasiness and distension at the upper part of his abdomen. His appetite failed, he rejected his food, and he had a great deal of fever, with quick pulse, and profuse perspiration. He gradually sunk. Upon opening the spinal sheath, a milky fluid was found within Dissection, it, just above the cauda equina; and higher up, about three inches, the spinal marrow was ulcerated to a considerable extent, and in that softened state which the brain assumes when putrefaction has taken place. All the other parts of the body were healthy, except the bladder, which was considerably inflamed. In a case like this, it will be necessary to employ cupping, or Treatment, leeches, to prevent inflammation: subsequently, counter irritants, such as blisters, tartar emetic; issues, or setons, may also, in some cases, prove beneficial. I shall now proceed to describe to you ANEURISM. Aneurism is a pulsating tumour containing blood, and communi- Definition, eating with the interior of an artery. There is one exception to this definition, namely, where aneurism, as it sometimes happens, takes place in the heart. Aneurisms are situated either externally or internally; that is, External or they are either so situated on the limbs as that access may be had internal< to them, and the nature of the disease clearly ascertained ; or they are so placed in cavities of the body, such as the abdomen, chest,