73 ON ULCERATION. rarely absorbed to admit the matter into the cavity of the abdomen ; but the matter makes its way through the integuments, and finds an outlet on the surface of the body. So in an abscess of the liver, the matter is discharged, not Ulceration of the liver. through the skin, which is a more remote surface, but into the cavity of the intestines, whence it is carried off by stool, or dis- charged into the stomach, from which it is thrown up by vomiting. These effects are produced in the following manner: the surface of the abscess becoming united with a portion of intestine, or stomach, by the adhesive process, the ulcerative action commences, by which a communication is formed between these surfaces, and the matter is discharged in the manner before mentioned, without danger, or at least with little danger, to life. The same thing takes place in absorption of the bones. Thus, Ulceration of & r r ’the bones, in ulceration of the tibia, the matter breaks through the skin, or that surface which is only covered by skin and periosteum. This is a law in part depending on the less vitality and greater irritability of those parts which are nearest the surface of the body. The external parts of the body are the most weakly with respect to circulation, and most readily absorbed. I do not mean to say that they are weakly with respect to quantity of blood, for they possess a considerable share of vascularity; but they are weakly with respect to the living powers. The external parts of the body are more irritable, and more subject to vicissitudes of action from corresponding changes of temperature than other parts of the body. They have less strength of circulation, and, consequently, give way to ulceration more readily than those parts which are more deeply seated, and possess a greater strength of circulation. Another reason is, that the adhesive process goes on glueing the more internal parts, while the external, which are thin and weak, become united to these parts, and in this way form a considerable solid. An instance of this is found in the adhesion of the pleura to a lung, so as to form one structure. It may be considered, then, as a law of the animal economy, that the 'ulcerative process has a disposition towards the nearest external surface of the body.