51 CAUSES OF HERNIA. r CAUSES OF HERNIA. All the causes of hernia usually alleged may be resolved into two kinds : those which diminish the resistance of the abdominal muscles, and those which increase the pressure of the viscera. The cause most generally predisposing to this disease is debility ; Debility, by occasioning relaxation of fibre, it produces a dilatation of the apertures through which the spermatic vessels pass, and thus ; affords a passage for the protrusion of the viscera. The same cause also operates in elongating the attachments of the viscera, rendering them thereby more extensively mobile, and, conse- quently, more liable to be displaced from their natural situation. If a person debilitated by fever, returns to a habit of violent ex- After fevers, ertion before his strength is fully re-established, a swelling of the groin will often occur, which proves to be a hernia. Old age also, from the general relaxation it produces, is so frequently attended with this complaint, that I have been surprised to find but few old men entirely exempt from it. Having neglected no opportunity Frequent in old of procuring specimens of this disease, and inspecting the bodies age* of old people, I have scarcely ever been disappointed in finding either inguinal or femoral hernia. The subjects which I have ex- amined, however, have principally been old persons who have been obliged to labour for their subsistence after their strength became unequal to great exertions. Those who work hard, and live more on fluid than solid food, are also very subject to hernia; whence its frequency among the poor of this town, who work to the utmost of their strength, and subsist very much upon liquids. Heat of climate and seasons, warmth of clothing during the day, and warm covering at night, must also be reckoned as predis- posing causes of this disease. Herniae, though frequent in Eng- More common land, are much less common here than in the South of Europe or inwaim climates' in Africa. A gentleman thus writes from Malta: “ This is the place where hernia should be studied; for, from the extreme e 2