409 DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. Mr. Davie conceived that he should be able to prevent the gra- dual destruction which the altered position of the clavicle threat- ened, by removing the sternal extremity of the bone; and the operation which he performed for this purpose was, according to all I can learn, as follows. An incision was made of from two to three inches in extent on the sternal extremity of the clavicle, in a line with the axis of that bone; and its surrounding ligamentous connections, as far as he could then reach them, were divided with the saw of Scultetus (often called Hey’s) ; he sawed through the end of the bone, one inch from its articular surface from the sternum, and fearful of doing unnecessary injury with the saw, he introduced a piece of well- beaten sole leather under the bone while he divided it. When the sawing was completed, he tried to detach the bone, but it still re- mained connected by its inter-clavicular ligament, and he was obliged to tear through that ligament by using the handle of the knife as an elevator, and after some time succeeded in removing the portion of bone which he had separated. The wound healed without any untoward occurrence, and the patient was enabled to swallow, as the pressure of the clavicle upon the oesophagus was now removed. She lived six years after the operation, and recovered consider- ably from her former emaciation. “ Of what she ultimately died,” says Mr. Crowfoot, “ I have not learnt.” JUNCTION OF THE CLAVICLE WITH THE SCAPULA. The clavicle joins with the scapula about three quarters of an Articulation, inch behind the extremity of the acromion. The end of the cla- vicle is slightly convex, and covered by an articular cartilage; the scapula is depressed to receive it, and this surface is also covered by an articular cartilage. Strong ligamentous fibres pass directly from the clavicle to the scapula, and under these a capsular liga- ment is extended from the head of the socket of the scapula, to the extremity of the clavicle. The surface of junction is very small, the end of the clavicle not being longer than the end of the