473 OX AMPUTATION. chronic and scrofulous enlargements of joints were formerly often deemed to require the operation of amputation, but rest, external irritation, alterative medicines, and a nutritious diet, now' generally do away with the necessity of having recourse to so direful an expedient. Extensive ulceration of a limb is now much more frequently Of ulcers and cured than formerly. The treatment of the diseases of hones is (|i^ased bone, much better understood, and the result, although tedious, is rarely unsuccessful. In gangrene, considerable portions of the feet, or of other parts, Natural will separate by the efforts of nature, often producing as perfect a p^!l!^a,lon ui cure as the surgeon is able to effect by operation. Amputation will still be occasionally necessary for the accidents Operation and diseases I have mentioned: for laceration of limbs from so™e*'™es necessary. machines ; for the effects produced by the bursting of fire-arms; for some cases of gun-shot wounds; for chronic and scrofulous complaints, and for malignant diseases of a cancerous or fungoid nature; also for deformities which are either congenital or the result of organic change, and for exuberant growths, as tumours. All that I wish to advance upon the subject is, that although the necessity for this operation still exists, that the number of amputations thirty years ago was much greater than of those of the present day. Amputation is not only much less frequent than formerly, but it Much less is an operation of infinitely less danger. The extensive surface ofthan formerl ’ wound left after the old operation, and filling the wound with charpie or flour, led to the highest degree of constitutional irritation; w'hilst now', the integument being brought over the wounded surface, directly produces a process of adhesion, by which the constitutional disturbance becomes lessened and the danger from the operation greatly diminished. I shall now proceed to describe the various amputations which are required at different parts of the limbs. The common amputating instruments are so well known, that I need not enter into any particular description of them, but I shall