475 OF AMPUTATION OF TI1E FINGERS. Haps; after which the tendons and one of the lateral ligaments are to be divided, when the joint may be easily dislocated, and the separation of the part readily completed. The vessels divided in this operation seldom require the application Vessels, of a ligature, the pressure from the dressings being usually | sufficient to prevent any haemorrhage. The flaps of the integument should be brought together, and Dressings, kept so, by a narrow slip or two of adhesive plaster passed over the extremity from the dorsal to the palmar part, and these strips - should be secured by a circular portion a little above the stump. The hand and fore-arm should be supported by a sling until the stump has healed. The operation of amputation may be performed at either of these Another mode I . # of operating, joints, by making a single flap from the palmar part. In doing this, the joint must be flexed, when the scalpel is carried through the integument on the dorsum of the joint, and through the joint itself, dividing the ligaments at one cut; the knife is then passed under the phalanx, which is to be amputated, and a flap of sufficient extent is separated from the palmar side. This mode of amputating is more expeditious than that first Not always described, but it is not applicable to those cases in which the1>iaLt1^L‘t51 finger is straight and the joint stiffened from disease, as the knife cannot be then introduced into the joint from the back part; there is also much difficulty in separating the flap without including part of the flexor tendons ; and, upon the whole, the union of the divided parts is not so easily accomplished. These operations are equally applicable to 'the same joints of the Applicable to the toes. toes. When it is necessary to remove the whole of a finger, I think Amputation of a whole finger. it better to saw off the extremity of the metacarpal bone, rather than to open the joint. If the middle or ring finger be thus removed, less deformity results from the operation, as the remaining fingers approximate much more than when the extremity of the metacarpal bone is left; if the fore or little fingers arc I amputated in this manner, an ugly projection is prevented, which