82 OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED Patient’s assent to an operation. Progress of in- flammation va- ries. the time that elapses between these symptoms and a fatal termina- tion. There is a drawing of a large intestinal and omental hernia in the museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital, which Mr. Ede used to state in his lectures proved fatal in eight hours from the first ap- pearance of strangulation; under these circumstances death is not occasioned by mortification, but by the constitutional irritation which the inflammation of so large a surface occasions. On the other hand, I have known the operation successfully performed at the end of eight days after the accession of the symptoms of stran- gulation, although death generally happens on the sixth or seventh day from the commencement of the symptoms. I have known an instance of fatal termination within three days from the descent of the rupture. Some judgment may be formed from the pulse, and from the : patient’s general appearance; if the pulse be so small as to be scarcely perceptible, and the countenance anxious and sunken, no time is to be lost; but even under these circumstances, and with hiccough superadded, I have known the operation succeed. Indeed there is scarcely any period of the symptoms which should forbid the operation ; for even if mortification has actually , begun, the operation may be the means of saving life by promoting ! the ready separation of the gangrenous parts, and relieving the distended intestine. It will be said that it is difficult to obtain the patient’s consent to an early operation; but this I have never found, where the pre- cise state of the case was represented. The almost certain fatal consequence of delay, and the inconsiderable degree of pain which is inflicted in this, compared with many other operations, seldom Tail to gain the patient’s consent of submitting to the only remain- ing method of relief from his sufferings and his dangerous situa- tion. The progress of inflammation, and extent of mischief, are not always in proportion to the time that strangulation has existed, for the period between the commencement of the symptoms, and the fatal termination, varies exceedingly.