448 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. and ulna are separated from the os humeri by the pressure of the knee, the muscles give them a proper direction for reduction. DISLOCATION OF THE ULNA BACKWARDS. Symptoms of this accident. Dissection. Cause. Mode of reduction. The ulna is sometimes thrown back upon the os humeri without being followed by the radius. The appearance of the limb is then much deformed by the contortion inwards of the fore-arm and hand. The olecranon projects, and can be felt behind the os humeri. Extension of the arm is impracticable, but by a force which will reduce the dislocation ; and it cannot be bent to more than a right angle. It is an accident somewhat difficult to detect; but its distinguishing marks are the projection of the ulna, and the twist of the fore-arm inwards. We have an excellent specimen of this accident in the Museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital. It had existed to a great length of time without reduction: the coronoid process of the ulna was thrown into the superior fossa of the humerus; the olecranon is seen projecting behind the os humeri; the radius resting upon the external condyle, and had formed a small socket for its head, in which it was able to roll. The coronary and oblique ligaments had been torn through, and also a small part of the interosseous liga- ment; the lower extremity of the internal condyle of the humerus seems to have had an oblique fracture in it; but I doubt whether it had been broken, or only altered in form, on account of the un- natural position of the ulna: if it had been broken it was re- united. The triceps was thrown backwards, and the brachialis internus muscle was stretched under the extremity of the hu- merus. The accident arises from a severe blow on the lower extremity of the ulna, by which it is pushed suddenly upwards and backwards. This dislocation is more easily reduced than that of both bones ; and the best method is to bend the arm over the knee, and to draw the fore-arm downwards; the reduction will then be easy,