Result. Case. 376 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. but if in a few days it be not, and if suppuration take place, the matter should have an opportunity of escaping; and the lint being removed, simple dressing should be applied. After a week or ten days, if there be suppuration with much surrounding inflammation, poultices should be applied upon the wound, leeches in its neigh- bourhood, and upon the limb at a distance, and the evaporating lotion should be still employed ; but as soon as the inflammation is lessened, the poultices should be discontinued, as they encourage too much secretion, and relax the blood-vessels of the part, so as to prevent the restorative process. If the cure proceeds favourably, in a few weeks the wound is healed with little suppuration ; if less favourably, a copious suppuration takes place, the wound is longer in healing, and exfoliation of portions of the extremity of the bone still further retards the cure. The motion of the joint is not always lost; it is sometimes in a great degree restored: but this depends upon the greater or less extent of suppuration or ulceration. Under the most favourable circumstances, three months generally elapse before the patient can walk with crutches; in many cases, how- ever, a greater length of time is required: he bears upon the foot at different periods of time, according to the degree of injury sus- tained, as in compound fracture, when adhesion is not at first pro- duced. In compound dislocations, of course, the patient is longer in recovering. I shall now proceed to state the cases which have induced me to say that amputation, as a general rule, is improper. The circumstance which led me to doubt the soundness of the opinion which recommended indiscriminate amputation, were these : I was, many years since, going into the country with a friend of mine, and we met with a surgeon in our journey who put this question: “ How do you act in compound dislocations of the ancle- joint?” I do not recollect the reply, but he proceeded to say, “ I have had a case of compound dislocation of the ancle-joint under my care, in which I told the patient he must lose his limb: