20 ANATOMY OF HERNIA. Fascia trans- versals. be turned in under the femoral artery and vein; but, on further dissection, is found to form a sharp crescentic edge, which has been well described by Mr. Allan Burns, and is called by him the falciform process. This falciform edge is connected to the fore part of the sheath containing the femoral vessels, and serves to strengthen it. When this fascia is dissected away, the muscles on each side are exposed, and the an- terior crural nerve is laid bare ; but the femoral artery and vein still remain enclosed in a sheath. The anterior part of this sheath appears at first sight to arise from the crural arch, but it may be ; readily detached from it by passing the finger behind the arch, where it will be found to be a continuation of the inner portion of i the fascia transversalis. In a former part of the description it ap- I peared, that this fascia consisted of two portions; one, arising from the whole of the upper edge of the crural arch, ascends under the transversalis muscle, and forms the outer edge of the internal abdominal ring; while the inner portion, fixed by a firm attach- ment to the pubes, passes behind the tendon of the transversalis muscle, with which it is blended, and forms the floor of the in- guinal canal. Through the inner side of the sheath next to the pubes, pass the femoral absorbent vessels into the abdomen; in the male subjects I have seen them enter the sheath in a cluster, through a single hole in this fascia ; but in both sexes the fascia is generally rendered cribriform by these vessels passing through a variety of small openings; but, nevertheless, if the sheath be clearly dissected, and the finger thrust into it from the abdomen, the cellular membrane and absorbent vessels are protruded through one of these holes which is larger than the rest; some of the ab- sorbents also pass between the artery and vein, and in some sub- jects even on the outer side of the artery, entering by two small openings in the anterior part of the sheath. Fide Plate II. OF THE PARTS WHICH SHUT THE ABDOMEN FROM THE THIGH. When the peritoneum is dissected from the posterior surface of