3 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. tice. Without this quality, a man may do well enough in ordinary cases, but can do little on sudden emergencies ; it inspires confi- dence, and almost insures the success of the operation. These qualities forward the interests of professional men, whilst they diminish the sufferings of human nature. Patients generally form an opinion of a surgeon’s ability by his manner: if he be of a dry, morose turn, he is apt to alarm not only the patient, but his whole family; whereas, he who speaks kindly to them, and asks for par- ticular information, is supposed to have more knowledge, and receives more respect. In all cases, it is the duty of the surgeon never to advise an ope- Knowledge of . i i • i Anatomy in- ration unless there is a probability that it will be attended with dispensable. success : he should here, as in every instance, “ do to others as he would have others do unto him.” Let it be always remembered, that operations cannot be safely undertaken by any man, unless he possess a thorough knowledge of anatomy. This is the real groundwork of all surgical science ; and it has ever been found that half-anatomists are bungling practitioners; ignorance here, as it always will, gives confidence without power. But it is consolatory to know, that the human frame is better understood at the present epoch by students, than it was forty years ago by professors. With us, the march of improvement has been most rapid ; and it has principally arisen from the assiduity with which the modern surgeons have pursued their avocations in the dissecting-room. A few years since, all operations were attended with hazard; those now undertaken com- monly do well, which can only be explained by our increased infor- mation. An old surgeon, now deceased, said, “ that operations for extracting stones from the bladder, put him in mind of sailing between Scylla and Charybdis.” It was replied, “ that not to attempt them was certainly resigning his patients to Scylla.” It is true, these operations require the most perfect anatomical skill; as do those for hernia, aneurism, and fractures of the bones of the head, attended with depression. Anatomy likewise teaches us how to discriminate disease; in which, lies more than half the cure. Without this knowledge, dislocations frequently cannot be detected ; B 2