OF THE AFTER-TREATMENT. 387 the operation has ceased: the patient should not be put to bed whilst any haemorrhage continues; and when in bed he should be very lightly covered for some time. I find that bleeding more frequently occurs when the gorget is passed obliquely, in the direction of the external wound, than when it is passed horizontally. Fourthly, Gangrene of the scrotum. This I have seen several Gangrene of times, in persons who have been of intemperate habits, or in those the scrotum, extremely weakened by age. Fifthly, Extravasation of urine into the scrotum, producing great Extravasation inflammation and swelling, and leading to gangrene; it arises from urine- the incision being made too high, so as to open the cellular tissue | of the scrotum. After the operation of lithotomy, the scrotum should be always Scrotum to be j supported by a bandage, to prevent the urine which flows through suPP0lted. the wound, from irritating it, and thus the disposition to gangrene is lessened. Sixthly, An ulcerated state of the bladder, shown by offensive Ulceration of urine, evacuation of mucus and of pus, mixed with blood, in some, are the blaJdei- sufficient to lead to a fatal issue in lithotomy. Seventhly, Diseased kidneys, whether inflamed, wasted, suppu- Diseased rating, ulcerated, or containing stones; marked by pain in the loins, k‘Jney' by purulent discharge, and by a disordered stomach. Eighthly, Visceral disease, as a morbid state of the liver; visceral dyspnoea from some chronic affection of the lungs; palpitation of disease, the heart; irregular or intermitting pulse; which tend to destroy the powers of restoration. OF THE AFTER-TREATMENT. When the operation is concluded, the patient is unbound; but the legs should not be immediately brought together if any bleeding continue, as the blood is apt to pass back into the bladder, where it coagulates; and producing great urgency to make water, the coagulum is forced out, occasioning a renewal of the haemorrhage. 2 c 2