DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 451 nature of the injury—“Well, that is very curious,” said he; “for I have myself been the subject of this accident.” He then exposed his arm, and shewed me a dislocation of the radius: it had happened many years before ; and he told me that numerous and most violent attempts had been made to reduce it without success. The observations here stated upon this subject I have usually given in my lectures, carefully explaining the difficulty in restoring the bone to its situation. Once, on an occasion of this kind, Mr. Williams, one of the most intelligent of my pupils, said to me, “ 1 have known the radius reduced in these accidents by extension from the hand only.” From a consideration of what he said, and from an experiment on the dead body, placing the radius in the situation in which it was thrown by this accident, I was convinced that the mode of extension mentioned by Mr. Williams, was the best; as, from the connection of the hand with the radius, that bone alone is acted upon ; and the ulna being excluded from the force applied, the radius sustains the whole extension. It is also right in making the extension to render the hand supine, as this position draws the head of the radius from the upper part of the coronoid process of the ulna, upon which it would otherwise be directed; and then to draw the fore arm, by pulling the hand, and by fixing the os humeri. DISLOCATION OF THE RADIUS BACKWARDS. This is an accident which I have never seen in the living person ; but in the winter of 1821, a man was brought for dissection into the theatre of St. Thomas’s Hospital, in whom was found this dis- location, which had never been reduced. The head of the radius was thrown behind the external condyle of the os humeri, and rather to the outer side of the lower extremity of that bone. Mr. Sylvester, from Gloucester, a very intelligent student, had the kind- ness to make me a drawing of the parts as they were dissected. When the arm was extended, the head of the radius could be seen as well as felt behind the external condyle of the os humeri. On dis- ci g 2 Appearance cf this accident.