FRACTURES OF THE OS INNOMINATUM. 294 Detection. Appearances on dissection. in this case, the knee and foot are not turned inwards, but out- wards. Of the first of these accidents, I have seen two examples, of the latter only one. These accidents are generally to be detected by a perceptible crepitus on the motion of the thigh, if the hand be placed upon the crista of the ilium ; and they are attended with more motion than occurs in dislocations. A man was brought into St. Thomas’s Hospital, in January, 1791, on whom a hogshead of sugar had fallen. Upon examina- tion, the right leg was found about two inches shorter than the left, and the knee and foot were turned inwards; these circum- stances induced the surgeon under whose care he fell to think the case a dislocation, although, as he stated, the limb appeared to be more moveable than usually happens in such accidents, and there was a great contusion and considerable extravasation of blood. The surgeon used the utmost caution in making a very slight ex- tension, in order to bring the legs to an equal length, in which he did not succeed ; and whilst it was performing, a crepitus was dis- covered in the os innominatum. The man had a remarkable de- pression of strength, and paleness of countenance, and appeared to be sinking.—In the evening he died. Upon examination of the body, the following appearances were observed:—The posterior part of the acetabulum was broken off, and the head of the thigh-bone had slipped from its socket; the tendon of the obturator internus, and the gemini, tightly embraced the neck of the bone; the fracture extended from the acetabulum across the os innominatum to the pubes ; the ossa pubis were se- parated at the symphisis nearly an inch asunder, and a portion of the cartilage was torn from the right pubes, and adhered to that on the left side ; the ilia were separated on each side, and the pubes, ischium, and ilium broken on the left side: the abdomen contained about a pint of blood, and the left kidney was greatly bruised ; the integuments were stripped off the patella and knee on one side, so as to expose the capsular ligament. In a second case of this kind, which was admitted into St.