36 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. Mode of pre- serving health. Perspiration. Nausea. Case. The methods by which I preserve my own health are temperance, early rising-, and sponging- the body every morning with cold water immediately after getting out of bed, a practice which I have adopted for thirty years; and though I go from the hot theatre into the squares of the hospital, in the severest winter nights, with merely silk stockings on my legs, yet I scarcely ever have a cold. Should it happen that I feel indisposed, my never-failing remedy is one grain of calomel combined with four of cathartic extract, which I take at night; with a basin of hot tea, about two hours before I rise the following morning, in order to excite a free perspiration, and my indisposition soon subsides. The next secretion we should restore, for relieving irritation and inflammation, is that of the skin; for it rarely happens, that a hard pulse continues with a free secretion from the surface of the body. The best mode of producing perspiration is, by giving the anti- monial powder with diluents, or Dover’s powder; as this powder, however, is apt to increase costiveness, the antimonials are the best, and these should be combined with mercurials. The other secretion, namely, that of the kidneys, may be restored, by giving diluents, squills, or acetate of potash. Now, gentlemen, he assured it is not by restoring this or that secretion, which will relieve extensive inflammation; for it cannot be effected but by the complete restoration of them all. There are some cases of inflammation ivhere bleeding will not afford relief; this more frequently happens in inflammation of the testicles, than in any other part; for these affections, you must administer Dover’s powder, combined with calomel. There is another mode of subduing inflammation, namely, pro- voking in the stomach a constant nausea, by giving a solution of emetic tartar. I have seen this plan successfully practised on chil- dren in croup; calomel should be also occasionally administered. In inflammation of old people, you must bleed with great caution. I was requested to see an elderly lady in the country, having in- flamed lungs ; I ordered her to be hied—the bleeding was repeated, when her legs began to swell; I therefore prescribed the digitalis