FRACTURES OK THE UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. 331 I each side of the limb, by Mr. Cline’s direction. An ossific union i succeeded, with scarcely any deformity, excepting that the foot was somewhat everted, and the man walked extremely well. | When he was to be discharged from the hospital a fever attacked him, of which he died; and upon dissection, the fracture was found through the trochanter major, and the bone was united with ! very little deformity, so that his limb would have been equally I useful as before. In conclusion, I have to observe, that as the diminution of the length of the limb, and its eversion of the knee and foot, are signs r common to fractures of the thigh-bone generally, it may be proper to bring into one view the means of distinguishing the three ; species of fracture which I have described. The fracture of the cervix within the capsule is known, with very rare exceptions, by the very advanced age of the patient,—by its greater frequency in female than in male subjects,—by the ab- sence of swelling and ecchymosis,—by the elevation and advance : of the trochanter,—by the greater mobility of the joint, allowing I flexion and extension, although with some pain, and resistance | from muscles,—by a crepitus perceptible only on drawing down the limb to the same length with the other, and then rotating | it,—by the pain felt at the trochanter minor,—by the small degree of constitutional irritation attending the accident,—by the slight | causes which produce it,—and by the little local swelling or change of appearances which ensues. Fractures of the cervix into the cancelli of the trochanter are known by the effusion of blood amidst the muscles,—by great | swelling produced, and by ecchymosis, which appears soon after 1 the accident,—by an unnaturally fixed state of the joint, so that flexion and extension cannot be performed,—by excessive pain on the least motion of the hip-joint, and upper part of the thigh -bone, —by a crepitus attending the least motion of the thigh-bone with- out drawing it down to the length of the other,—and by the inflam- mation, swelling, and constitutional irritation produced, which are frequently fatal. Fracture within the capsule. Fractures of the cervix into the cancelli.