DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. 380 Objections. Limb shorter. Anchylosis. Each mode use- ful. Cases in which the one or the other should be employed. The objections which may be made to this mode of treatment are, that the limb becomes somewhat shorter by the removal of the cartilaginous extremity of the bone; but this I do not think an objection of any considerable weight, if the danger of the case be, as I believe, lessened by it: for the diminished length, which is very slight, is easily supplied by a shoe made a little thicker than i usual. The other objection is, that the joint becomes necessarily anchy- losed. 1 doubt very much the reality of this objection, as in two instances I have seen the motion of the part remain; but even when the joint becomes anchylosed, a consequence to which it is liable in either mode of treatment, the motion of the tarsal bones becomes so much increased as to compensate for that of the ancle, the patient walks with much less halting than would be anticipated, and has a very useful limb. My intention, however, is not to advocate either mode of treat- ment to the exclusion of the other, but to state the reasons which may be justly assigned for the occasional adoption of either. It is only by a comparison of the different results of varied practice that a safe conclusion can be drawn ; and from what I have had an opportunity of observing in my own practice, and of learning from that of my friends, I feel disposed to recommend to those whose minds are not settled upon the subject, not hastily to determine 1 against either treatment in the different cases of this injury, as from each mode, under varied circumstances, a strong and useful limb has been saved without any additional risk to the life of the patient. If the dislocation can be easily reduced without sawing off the end of the bone; if the bone be not so obliquely broken, but re- main firmly placed upon the astragalus when reduced; if the end of the bone be not shattered, for then the small loose pieces of bone should be removed, and the surface of the bone be smoothed by tbe saw ; if the patient be not excessively irritable, so as to oc- casion the muscles to be thrown into violent spasmodic action in the attempt at reduction, which leads to subsequent displacement when