OF WOUNDS OF THE NERVES. 232 Divided nerves unite. Dr. Haigliton’s experiments. Case. Case. Treatment. When a nerve has been divided, if its extremities are brought to- gether, it unites, and the function of the nerve becomes gradually restored. Dr. Haighton divided the pars vaga on one side of the neck of a dog, and, after some time, he cut through the nerve on the other side: the dog lived, which he would not have done, had both the nerves been divided at the same time. When he had allowed time for the union of the second, he divided both at once, and the animal died under the same circumstances as would have occurred had no previous experiment been made. The time required for the union and restoration of function, ap- pears to depend upon the size of the nerve. A young gentleman wdio had injured the external condyle of the os humeri, had numbness in the direction of the radial nerve, and he recovered the sensibility of the parts in four months. The numbness sometimes produced by bleeding is recovered from in three months. In a fracture of the thigh bone, by which the sciatic nerve was injured, so as to produce numbness in the limb below, the person recovered in nine months. Kosciusko, the Polish General, had his sciatic nerve injured by a pike, and when in this country, many months after receiving the wound, he had not got rid of the effects; and I have heard since, that he remained lame. At the place of union, after the division of a nerve, there is the appearance of a ganglion, as may be seen in a preparation I made from the finger of a person brought into the dissecting room at St. Thomas’s Hospital; a cicatrix covered the ganglion. Independent of the size of a nerve, the time in which union will be complete, must also depend much on the position and approxima- tion of the ends. In the treatment of a wounded nerve, the only objects are the approximation of its ends and union by adhesion. Many bad symptoms have been attributed to the partial division of a nerve; but I have, in part, cut through the sciatic nerve of