120 ON CRURAL HERNIA. Appearance of the hernia. « Like an enlarged gland. Direction of the hernia. Dissection of the hernia. Fascia propria. This is occasioned by the extension of the fascia lata, and its press- ing on the protruded parts. On examining the seat of pain, a fulness is discovered at the upper and inner part of the femoral sheath, which disappears on pressure, or when the patient is recumbent. This fulness soon increases, so as to form a tumour about the size of a small walnut, which is situated immediately below Poupart’s ligament, to the inner side of the femoral vessels, and to the outside of the spine of the pubes. As the swelling enlarges, it projects more forwards and upwards, turning over Poupart’s ligament, as it meets with the least resistance in this direction. When the tumour is small, from its situation and circum- scribed feel, it has much the character of an enlarged inguinal gland. The direction of this hernia is at first a little downwards in the I femoral sheath, then obliquely inwards and forwards, and lastly upwards; sometimes, however, instead of turning up over Pou- part’s ligament, it takes a course downwards, in the direction of the saphena major vein; but this very rarely happens. On dissecting a femoral hernia, the following appearances present themselves. On cutting through the integument, the fascia super- ficialis is exposed; .this, in its natural state, is thin and delicate; but frequently, when hernia exists, the fascia becomes dense and tough from pressure. Under this fascia a portion of the sheath of the femoral vessels is found, which closely envelopes the hernial sac itself; it is that portion which is perforated for the entrance of absorbent vessels. This covering I first became acquainted with in examining a patient in St. Thomas’s Hospital, in the year 1800, and have since invariably found it when operating for this form of hernia. It may be termed the fascia propria of the hernia. Beneath this covering, and between it and the sac itself, there is generally some adipose matter situated, on separating which the sac is laid bare. This layer of adipose matter I have known to be mis- taken for omentum.