OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 37 it is closely connected with the sheath, it at length turns rather upwards, and terminates by being inserted into the linea inno- ! minata, where it becomes attached to the base of Gimbernat’s liga- ment. The iliac portion of the fascia lata, being thus attached, then passes downwards, and becomes united underneath the vena sa- phena major, with the internal or pubic portion of the same struc- ture. The pubic, or inner portion of the fascia lata, covers the ad- ductor muscles on the inside of the thigh. It is attached internally to the ramus of the ischium and pubis, anteriorly to the ligament of Gimbernat, superiorly into the linea ileo-pectinea. Passing down, it soon divides into two portions, a superficial and deep ; the former continuing to pass downwards, unites under the saphena vein, as before stated, with the iliac portion of the fascia. The deep portion passes behind the femoral blood-vessels and their sheath, as far as the border of the psoas muscle ; it there splits into two processes; one passes beneath the psoas tendon, and becomes attached to the capsular ligament of the hip joint; whilst the other, lying more superficially, passes over that tendon and becomes con- tinuous with the fascia iliaca. Between the iliac and pubic portions of the fascia lata, an open- ing is usually described as being left, called, from the circum- stance of its transmitting the vena saphena major, the saphenous foramen. This opening is placed about half an inch below Pou- part’s ligament, and in front of the femoral vein. It is surrounded by the inner margin of the iliac portion of the fascia lata, which margin has received the name offalciform process. This important structure presents a concavity which looks downwards and inwards. The upper course of this arch extends as far as the crural ring and Gimbernat’s ligament; whilst the lower course is lost under the vena saphena, by uniting with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. Some difference of opinion exists concerning the exact disposi- Pubic portion of the fascia lata. Saphenous opening. Falciform pro- cess.