OF REMOVING STONES FROM THE BLADDER 396 of these gave me great relief, for I was immediately enabled to pass a considerable quantity of urine by my natural efforts; and previously to this, ever since the large bougie had been intro- duced, 1 had been unable to pass my water without the aid of the catheter. “ On the 8th of December, six stones were removed by the same means. “ On the 13th, nine more were taken away. “ On the 19th, three move were extracted. “ On the 23rd, twelve more were removed; thus only allowing the intermission of a day or two for the irritation to go off. The operations were repeated until eighty-four calculi were, by these means, extracted from my bladder; when Mr. Cooper pronounced, after a most careful examination, they were all removed. My health has been all this time uninterruptedly good with the excep- tion of the attack of retention of urine from the use of the large bougie; and I am now able to discharge my urine without the use of the catheter, and to walk nearly as well as ever I did.” The following case is, in part, detailed from the patient’s account of his symptoms; and, in part, from the statement of Sir Gilbert Blane, who is the patient’s physician. Sir William Bellingham s Account of his Case. “ Sir William B is in his sixty-seventh year; he suffered much at times from long and severe attacks of the gout, from about his thirty-fifth to his sixtieth year; since which period the attacks have been much less frequent, much mitigated, and of short conti- nuance. He thinks he first perceived red gravel, or sand, to come from him occasionally, soon after a long fit of the gout, about seven or eight years since, but did not suffer much inconvenience from it. About four years since he passed pieces of gravel at different times, and has continued occasionally to do so ever since; sometimes larger than a pea, but generally of an oblong shape. When they occasioned any stoppage in the passage, he used a hot bath at 94°, and drank plentifully of some diluting drink, which,