OF FUNGOID POLYPUS OF THE RECTUM. 440 Case. Case. Case. Case. without putting a thread around it. Whilst at Lecture 1 was sent for to attend the child on account of haemorrhage, and I begged Mr. H. Cline to visit the patient for me; but he soon returned and informed me, that the bleeding had been of little consequence, and had stopped spontaneously. The child recovered. In a stone patient of Mr. Gaitskell’s, upon whom I was operating, the child having prolapsus ani, I saw a small excrescence, red and pendulous, growing upon the mucous membrane of the intestine, which I thought was the commencement of one of these diseases. I have only twice seen this disease in the adult; once at the age of twenty-three years: I put a ligature upon its root, and removed a portion beyond the ligature, having the external appearance of a common earth-worm. An apothecary of Bristol, a friend of Mr. Brickenden, surgeon, in the Borough, came to me, some years ago, with a polypus growing in his rectum, about two inches from the anus, which I removed: he had previously been subject to dyspeptic symptoms, with great irritability of the rectum, which subsided after this operation, and the use of alterative medicines which were given him. OF FUNGOID POLYPUS OF THE RECTUM. A gentleman was brought to me by Dr. Hopkins, of Peter- borough, who laboured under this disease, the symptoms of which were a copious and sanious discharge from the rectum; very little pain; but upon his going to stool, or even by efforts in which the faeces were not discharged, a polypus was protruded, having a broken surface like a cauliflower, large as an egg, and of a dirty brown colour, breaking readily, and bleeding where it broke. The general health had not materially suffered. I put a ligature upon the neck of this polypus near to the mucous membrane of the intestine : it sloughed away in a few days, and for some time the gentleman appeared to he well; but having occasion, many months afterwards, to go through Peterborough, I was requested to see this