PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. 288 brisk purgatives were also administered, succeeded by saline medicines, and a quiet position was enjoined for eleven days, by which time the swelling began somewhat to subside. Still the precise nature of the injury was not satisfactorily evident; but it was thought by Mr. Nunn of Colchester, and Mr. Travis of East Bergholt, who had kindly come over to witness it, that there was a luxation. The only difficulty we had in reconciling our- selves to this notion was, the belief in our minds that no author ad- duced an instance of this accident, without an alteration in the length of the limb, except it might be Mr. Astley Cooper, in his new publication, which neither of us had yet seen. We accord- ingly had recourse to a minute examination of the skeleton; when we immediately fancied we could account for the absence of the usual marked signs of displacement of the head of the bone, excepting the inversion of the knee and foot, in this kind of luxation ; for we noticed, that if the head of the bone be luxated sideways into the ischiatic notch, it will produce scarcely any difference in the length of the limb. Trusting that a little further delay might not be attended with any material disad- vantage, but give a chance for the entire subsidence of all the inflammation and swelling, we proposed meeting again as soon as we conveniently could, by which time we might consult Mr. Cooper’s work. We accordingly met on Sunday, the 30th of August, which was fifteen days after the accident; and from the complete removal of all swelling, the whole of the femoral bone was satisfactorily traced to its rounded head, which was lodged in the ischiatic notch. Upon referring to the book, which we had now before us, we found the case delineated and described; and as it was exhibited in a plate, we had only to imitate, in order to accomplish the reduction of the bone. In the presence of two or three other medical gentlemen we commenced the operation ; but as it would be unnecessary to state every particular, considering the manner in which the position of the patient, and the fixing of the pulleys and towels, are demonstrated by that publication, suffice it to say,