FRACTURES OF THE KNEE. 349 FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. This bone is generally broken transversely, sometimes, though Transverse or rarely, longitudinally; it is liable also to simple and compound ion£ltu<,maI> fracture; but, fortunately, the latter is but of rare occurrence. When the patella is transversely broken, the upper part of the Symptoms, bone is drawn from the lower, its superior portion being elevated by the action of the rectus, vasti, and cruralis muscles, which are inserted into its upper part; whilst the lower portion is still re- tained in its natural situation by the ligament which passes from it to the tubercle of the tibia. The degree of separation thus produced, depends on the extent Degree of sepa- of laceration of the ligament; for when the ligament is but little rat1011' torn, the separation will be half an inch, but under great extent of injury, the bone is drawn five inches upwards, the capsular ligament and tendinous aponeurosis covering it being then greatly lacerated; and this, with one exception, is the greatest extent of separation which I have seen. The accident may be at once known by the depression between the two portions of bone; by the fingers passing readily down to the condyles of the os femoris into the joint as far as the integuments will permit; and by the elevated portion of bone moving readily on the lower and fore part of the thigh. The power of extending the limb is lost im- mediately after the accident, and likewise that of supporting the weight of the body on that leg, if the person be standing; for the knee bends forwards from the loss of action in the extensor mus- cles. The pain in this accident is not very severe; and a simple fracture is not dangerous, for the constitution feels it but little. In a few hours after the accident, a considerable degree of extravasation of blood takes place upon the fore part of the joint, so that the appearance is livid from ecchymosis; but this is removed by absorption in a few days. Considerable inflamma- tion and fever succeed, and there is a great degree of swelling in the fore part of the joint, both from the free secretion of synovia, and the effusion arising from inflammation. No crepitus