435 OF TIIEIR REMOVAL BY LACERATION. between each other like a serrated suture of the skull. These can he received into the smallest nostril, and readily made to act in any part of it. The operation is performed as follows: the patient sits upon a Operation, chair opposite a strong light, a probe is then introduced into the nostril, and the surgeon feels with it the exact situation of the stalk of the polypus; then withdrawing the probe, he passes the forceps to the stalk, and, enclosing it between the blades, with very gentle jerks, he either tears through the stalk, or draws away the portion of membrane from whence it grows : instead of removing it by jerks, the surgeon may turn the instrument upon its axis, and thus lacerate the stalk of the polypus. Now and then a thin film of bone separates with the pituitary membrane, which only more effectually secures the patient from a return of the disease. If more than one polypus exist in the nostril, a separate opera- tion is required for each; and if they exist upon each side, the operation may be performed on the same day in each nostril, for there is no danger in this operation. 1 never knew but one person die in consequence of it; he had previously had some disease in the brain, a piece of lint was placed in the nostril, after the opera- tion, and this gentleman died a few days after of inflammation of the brain. It is better not to introduce lint, or any extraneous substance likely to produce irritation, immediately after the operation. The haemorrhage which results from this operation never amounts No serious .... hEemorrhage. to any serious quantity. As the disease is liable to return, when the inflammation succeed- ing the operation has subsided, aluminous injections may be used, or the liquor calcis with oxym: hydrarg: to lesson the disposition to the return of the complaint. To remove them from the posterior nares, I have used curved forceps, introduced behind the velum; but they do not answer so well as the mode I have next to describe. 2 f 2