CAUSES OF HERNIA. 53 exist at all, or is at least very imperfect; for, whoever is in the frequent habit of dissecting the abdominal ring will find it varying both in extent and in the firmness with which it is closed, being in some subjects carefully shut by the transverse tendon from the ilium, while in others, this tendon is very small or even entirely wanting. In such persons the slightest cause is sufficient to pro- duce hernia. Hernia is often suddenly produced by blows. A gentleman Hernia produced consulted me concerning a tumour which had appeared in his groin after he had been thrown from his horse in hunting. He fell upon the post of a gate, which struck against his groin, and he immediately felt great pain, and found a swelling in the part, which proved to be a hernia. A young gentleman from America, who had a hernia, told me that it appeared immediately after having received a kick from his schoolmaster. Neither of these, how- ever, was oblique inguinal hernia, but a variety that will be here- after described, produced, I believe, by a laceration of the tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. Violent actions of the abdominal muscles, by the pressure From coughing, which they exert upon the viscera, become frequent causes of hernia. It is in this way that coughing produces this disease. Children have occasionally been brought to me with this disease during hooping-cough. Few persons who have been long afflicted with asthma are free from it, and those who play upon wind in- struments are more subject to it than others. But of all the causes of hernia, the most frequent is the lifting From lifting of heavy weights, an action which strongly exerts the abdominal lieavy 'veights‘ muscles at the time the body is bent. In this position the lower part of the abdomen is not contracted to the same degree as the upper, the viscera are forced downwards by inspiration, and com- pressed by the abdominal muscles above, whilst the openings of the groin are relaxed by the posture of the body. I am informed that few persons are more subject to hernia than the men who work in our dockyards : the great weights which they