ANATOMY OF HERNIA. 15 I the outer portion of the fascia above the cord, being at length j firmly fixed in the pubes ; the inner margin of the ring is less de- fined than the outer, the fascia transversalis being doubled inwards towards the peritoneum, to which it is firmly attached. Thus, then, it appears, that the internal ring is not a circumscribed aper- ture like the external abdominal ring, but is formed by the sepa- ration of two portions of fasciae, which have different attachments and distributions at the crural arch; the outer portion terminating in Poupart’s ligament, while the inner portion will be found to descend behind it, to form the anterior part of the sheath that envelopes the femoral vessels. The strength of this fascia varies in different subjects; but in all cases of inguinal hernia it acquires considerable strength and thickness, especially at its inner edge ; and if these parts had been formed without such a provision, the bowels would, in the erect posture, be always capable of passing under the edge of the transversalis muscle, and no person would be free from inguinal hernia. Vide Plate II. The fascia transversalis may be traced as high as the diaphragm; and on the inner side it passes behind the rectus muscle, where it begins to assume the character of cellular tissue. Through the two openings which I have described, the spermatic Spermatic cord, cord passes down to the testicle. The cord is composed of ar- teries, veins, nerves, absorbents, an excretory duct called the vas deferens, a membranous sheath, and the cremaster muscle. The spermatic artery on each side is derived from the fore part Artery, of the aorta, below the origin of the emulgent arteries. It passes down behind the peritoneum over the psoas muscle, and, crossing the ureter, arrives at the internal ring, where it forms part of the spermatic cord. The spermatic vein on each side arising from the testis, enters Vein, the abdomen with the cord, and accompanies the artery to the middle of the abdomen, where they separate; the right vein ter- minating in the inferior cava, the left joining with the left emulgent vein. The vas deferens commences from the under and back part of Vas deferens.