136 or THE OPERATION FOR But little va- riety. Dr. Barclay’s preparation. Common course of the obturator. Fluid beneath the fascia pro- pria. Case. indeed the after-treatment generally, should he the same as in the inguinal disease. Very little variety is met with in femoral hernia, the most im- portant one is that in which the obturator artery arises from the | epigastric, and surrounds the neck of the sac. Dr. Barclay, a celebrated teacher of anatomy at Edinburgh, was ! kind enough to send me a specimen of this variety, which was j taken from a patient, whose previous history could not be ascer- j tained. Mr. Wardrop has also met with this variety. Although the obturator artery frequently arises from the epi- gastric, it is very rarely found passing before the sac in femoral I hernia, but usually takes a course to the outer side, and beneath j the sac, as I have often witnessed when dissecting the parts of j femoral herniae. My mode of avoiding injury to the epigastric I or obturator arteries, is to make a very slight division of the | stricture with the knife; and then, by pressure of the finger or of a director, to enlarge the opening. In one instance I have met with a large quantity of fluid si- tuated between the fascia propria and the hernial sac. The follow- ing is a short account of the case :— Miss , aet. 20, had been the subject of a femoral hernia on the right side for three or four years, which had acquired about the size of a pullet’s egg. In June, 1825, the hernia became strangulated, and increased to a very large size. As she did not mention the existence of the hernia to her medical attendants, it was not discovered until the third day from the commencement of the symptoms, the continuance and severity of which led to an examination. Mr. Wakefield, of Hatton Garden, who had at- tended her, immediately requested me to visit her; when, after , trying, without effect, the ordinary means to reduce the hernia, I operated. On opening the fascia propria, I was astonished at the escape of nearly a pint of transparent fluid, resembling that usually drawn off in hydrocele. The hernial sac, which then became