86 OF THE OPERATION FOR Appearance of the sac. Escape of fluid. Quantity of fluid. Sac opened. Appearance of omentum or in- testine. Seat of stricture ascertained. make more layers than I have described, being fearful of doing mischief which might be irreparable. When the hernial sac is exposed, it has usually a bluish tint, and is semitransparent. If the contents be not adherent to the sac, it generally contains a quantity of fluid, and a sense of fluctu- ation may be usually perceived at the inferior and anterior part of it, for which reason this part should be first opened, as the in- testine is there in the least danger. Immediately the sac is opened, this fluid escapes. If the stran- gulation have not existed long, it is occasionally of a serous colour, but more frequently of a darker, or coffee colour, and sometimes it has an offensive smell. This fluid is most abundant in intestinal hernia, and is in quan- tity in proportion to the bulk of intestine strangulated. If, how- ever, the hernia be omental, or if the intestine adhere to the in- terior of the sac, little or no fluid is found, so that it must not always be looked for as an indication of the sac being opened. The sac being opened, the surgeon is enabled to see its contents, which he must attentively examine. If both intestine and omen- tum have been strangulated, the latter is found above and anterior to the former; in some instances covering the gut partially, in others completely. If the hernia has not been long strangulated, the omentum has much of its usual character, being only a little darker than na- tural, and having its veins distended; but the intestine is found covered with a thin coat of adhesive matter, and is of a red colour. When the strangulation has existed for a long time previous to the operation, or when the stricture has been unusually tight, the in- testine presents a dark brown chocolate colour. The surgeon should now pass his finger into the hernial sac, and examine accurately the seat of the stricture, which he will find in one of the three following situations :— First.—At the internal abdominal ring, in the mouth of the sac. Second.—In the inguinal canal, an inch, or an inch and a half within the external ring.