31 PARTS FORMING HERNIA. The space which extends from the internal to the external ring, Inguinal canal. i nothing else than the mouth of that infundibular process of the fascia, which accompanies and surrounds the cord. The internal ring is situated, according to Sir A. Cooper, midway between the ] anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis of the pu- , bis; but it appears in general to be placed in the mid space j between the precise point of the tubercle of the pubis. It is i rather less than two inches to the outer or iliac side of the ex- , ternal ring, and about an inch above Poupart’s ligament, and is | covered towards the external surface by the integuments, the ten- don of the external oblique, and by the fleshy origin of the inter- nal oblique and transverse muscles, whilst behind or towards the abdominal cavity, it is closed by the peritoneum. That process of the fascia transversalis which accompanies the (spermatic cord, has received various names ; it has been called fascia canalis inguinalis and f. infundi triliformis; but as it im- , mediately invests the cord, it may be properly called /. spermatica ' interna, vel propria. The structure thus constituting a sheath around the cord, must necessarily be separated from that part by the descent of an oblique hernia; and as the sheath extends into the scrotum, the hernial sac will be closely covered in its i whole extent by this prolongation of the fascia transversalis ; and i thus it happens that in old and voluminous hernia, as well as in ; recent protrusions, there is no difficulty, by a careful dissection, in separating from the true peritoneal sac, the fascial investment to which we have been referring. It is necessary to remark, that the fascia transversalis not only furnishes a sheath, accompanying the spermatic cord into the scro- tum ; but it likewise sends a process on the spermatic blood-vessels into the abdominal cavity. is named canalis inguinalis; this passage, which runs obliquely downwards, inwards, and forwards, is hollowed in the substance of the abdominal walls, being bounded on the fore part by the i skin, the superficial fascia, the tendon of the external oblique, ; and by the fleshy origin of the internal oblique and transver- Fascia sperma- tica interna vel propria.