339 DISLOCATIONS OF TIIE KNEE. •oportion of cases, from the relaxation produced by excessive di- ligence in onanism. The reduction, in these cases, is effected in the manner which is been before described; and after the reduction, to prevent any currence of the accident, and to support the weakened ligament, laced knee-cap, with a strap and buckle over and below the pa- 11a, is to be worn. I once saw the patella drawn over the external condyle of the os moris from loss of action of the vastus internus, owing to a dis- se in the thigh-bone. DISLOCATION OF THE PATELLA UPWARDS. In this dislocation, the ligament of the patella is torn through Ligament lace- ■ the action of the rectus femoris muscle, and the immediate effect the injury, is to draw the patella upwards upon the fore part of e thigh-bone. The appearances which this accident presents Symptoms. a very decisive of its nature; for in addition to the elevation of e patella, and its easy motion from side to side, a deep depres- >n is felt above the tubercle of the tibia from the absence of the ament; the patient immediately loses the power of bearing upon it limb, as the knee bends under each attempt, and he would 1 if he persisted in throwing the weight of his body upon it. A nsiderable degree of inflammation is the consequence. In the treatment of this injury, local depletion and evaporating Treatment, ions are to be used during four or seven days from its occur- nce, and then a roller is to be applied around the foot and upon 2 leg, to prevent its swelling; the leg is to be kept extended by splint behind the knee, and a bandage, composed of a leathern ap, is to be buckled around the lower part of the thigh: to this to be attached another, which is to be carried on each side of 2 leg, and under the foot, and is to be buckled to the circular ap; thus the bone is gradually drawn down, so as to allow of a ion of the ligament. In a month the knee may be slightly bent, d as much passive motion daily given as the patient is able to ar ; by these means the ruptured ligament becomes united, and