A DII ESI V K 1X F LAM M AT ION. AP PEA It A X C F S. 56 Example. Ligatures. Difference of ligatures. inflammation is set up, adhesive matter thrown out, the internal surface of the cavity generally becomes permanently united, and thus a radical cure is effected. If an incision be required to be made into the tunica vaginalis, whilst it is suffering from the adhesive inflammation, its cavity is found filled with a substance which has the appearance of jelly. The treatment of a stump after amputation will best illustrate this subject. In amputating a limb, your object is first to preserve sufficient integuments, and not muscles, for if muscular fibres are preserved with the integuments, they will contract, and retraction of the skin covering the stump will be the result. When the limb has been removed, you will apply ligatures to the bleeding vessels: now I would not advise you to tie every small vessel; ligatures on the principal vessels are quite sufficient, and the fewer applied the better, for though it is desirable to prevent disturbance of the limb afterwards, yet, by waiting a short time after the operation, the smaller arteries will generally stop. The ligatures themselves should be small, and consist of fine silk, for nothing is so bad in operations as the application of coarse ligatures, excepting perhaps in cases where ossification of the arteries has taken place, when it would be justifiable; with this exception only, it is the worst possible surgery to apply thick ligatures to arteries; and if a surgeon were to do it, he would understand nothing of his profession; the thinner the ligatures are, then, the better. Now there are two reasons why thin ligatures are preferable— 1st, because they are less liable to escape; 2dly, they divide the internal coats of the arteries more effectually: when you use a very fine ligature, the internal coats will be completely divided, and the external will remain entire. My friend Dr. Jones has published an excellent work on the natural means by which arteries unite in cases where ligatures are applied; and first he states the fact of the internal coats of the artery being divided by the application of fine ligatures. Thick ligatures also prevent the wounds from healing so rapidly as thin ones. After the vessels have been secured, the