ANATOMY OF HERNIA. 19 from the bone over that line. To this ligament the third insertion of the external oblique muscle, or, as it is commonly called, Gim- bernat’s ligament, is attached. To obtain a clear view of it in dis- section, the fascia covering the pectineus muscle, together with the muscle itself, must be cut away. The superficial fascia, which, in the anatomy of inguinal hernia. Superficial was described as covering the external oblique tendon, and de- fascia’ i scending into the scrotum over the cord, is found to have a very firm attachment to the lower edge of the crural arch; from thence it descends upon the absorbent glands of the groin, where it has been said to terminate; but erroneously, as it passes down upon the thigh, giving a covering to the absorbent vessels and super- ficial veins. The strongest fibres of this fascia are transverse; and though in its natural state it may readily escape the attention I of the anatomist, yet, when it has been long pressed upon by a hernial tumour, particularly in a subject loaded with fat, it acquires considerable density. The covering which this gives to the fe- moral hernial sac, with the attachment it has to the edge of the crural arch, will be seen in the plates of the second part. In a former part of the anatomical description it was mentioned, that Poupart’s ligament gave origin to three fasciae; one of the three which descends upon the thigh, and possesses great strength, is called fascia lata femoris. It may be said to have two distinct Fascia lata, origins or attachments. The outer part, which is the stronger, arises from the whole of the lower edge of the crural arch, crossing the femoral artery and vein, the psoas and iliacus muscles, and the anterior crural nerve. The inner portion arises from the os pubis and the ligament of the pubes at the insertion of Gimbernat’s liga- ment, extends over the pectineus and triceps muscles, and unites with the outer portion under the vena saphaena major. The united portions then form the fascia lata, which extends down the thigh, to envelop the muscles and support them when in action. Vide Plate II., Fig. 3. When this fascia is first laid bare, the outer portion appears to c 2