Application of truss to infants. 60 OF THE REDUCIBLE INGUINAL HERNIA, tardy. The truss should be worn even during the night, lest any unexpected occasion should call the patient from bed unprepared for the sudden change of posture; for if the hernia once descend during the wearing of the truss, the cure must be considered recommencing from that moment. A patient should be provided with two trusses, in order to guard against the effects of accidents which may render one useless, and he will also experience great comfort in changing his night truss before he rises in the morning. A hernia will remain apparently cured for a considerable time, and return on some sudden exertion. This arises from the adhe- sions of the orifices of the sac being imperfect, and yielding to the pressure of the viscera. A gentleman, aged twenty-five, applied to me with a return of a left inguinal hernia, which had originally appeared at the age of seven years. He had worn a truss for it till within two years of its second descent, a period of sixteen years, and during the last two years had remained free from any descent of his rupture. A hernia that thus re-appears is much more liable to strangula- tion than a recent hernia, on account of the thickening produced in the neck of the sac by the pressure of the truss, which also renders the replacement of the protruded intestine a work of greater difficulty. There is one circumstance which will always render a prudent surgeon guarded in promising a complete cure of hernia from wearing a truss : it is, that although the original sac may be com- pletely shut at its mouth by adhesion, or perfect contraction, it is possible that another sac may be formed contiguous to the first. In such a case two hernial sacs were found side by side, one open and capable of receiving the bowels when pro- truded, the other contracted to the size of a goose’s quill. In the latter, therefore, the disease was cured, but remained in the former. Steel trusses are equally applicable to infants as to the adult; indeed, less unequal pressure is made by them than by the com- mon inelastic bandages applied round the pelvis. The scrotum of