3G 3 DISLOCATIONS OF T11E ANCLE-JOINT. attempt was made to save the limb, but the constitutional irritation ran so high, that amputation was obliged to be performed ; which was done by my colleague, Mr. Lucas, and the man was restored to health. Dislocations of the head of the fibula from relaxation, are more frequent than those which occur from violence; the head of the bone, in these cases, is thrown backwards, and is easily brought into its natural connection with the tibia, but it directly again slips from its position. This state produces a considerable degree of weakness, and fatigue in walking; and the person suffers much from exercise. As in these cases there is a superabundant secretion of synovia, and a distension of ligament, repeated blis- tering is required to promote absorption ; and afterwards a strap is to be buckled around the upper part of the leg, to bind the bone firmly in its natural situation: a cushion may be added behind the head of the bone to give it support, and at least to prevent the in- crease of the malady. DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. The bones which enter into the composition of the ancle-joint Structure of the are the tibia, fibula, and astragalus. The tibia forms an articu- J0lllt’ lating surface at its lower part, which rests upon the astragalus; there is a projection on the inner side of the lower portion of this bone, which forms the malleolus internus, and this part is articu- lated with the side of the astragalus. The fibula projects beyond Bone, the tibia at the outer ancle, and forms there tire malleolus externus, which has also an articulating surface for the astragalus. The istragalus, which is the superior tarsal bone, rises between the nalleoli and the lower part of the tibia, and moves upon it prin- cipally in flexion and extension of the foot. Thus nature has strongly protected this part of the body, by he deep socket formed by the two bones of the leg, and by the ball of the astragalus which is received between them. , A capsular ligament, secreting synovia on its internal surface, Capsular lign- ioins the tibia and fibula to the astragalus. A strong ligament ""'nt'