DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 450 Cases. up by the side of the ulna, and thrown over the condyle, and upon the coronoid process of the ulna. The first case I saw of this accident was in a woman, who was a patient of Mr. Cline’s, in St. Thomas’s Hospital, whilst I was an apprentice to him. The most varied attempts which his strong judgment could direct were made to reduce the bone, but they proved ineffectual; and the woman was discharged from the hospital with the dislocation unreduced. The second case was in a lad to whom I was called by Mr. Bal- manno, of Bishopsgate-street; and although I made attempts, by continuing and varying the extension in every direction for an hour and a quarter, I could not succeed in effecting the re- duction. The third case was that of a hair dresser, who having been intoxicated in the evening came to my house on the following morning with his radius dislocated : during; the time of exami- nation the patient became faint, and at last fell upon the floor m a state of syncope; this I thought afforded me a most favourable opportunity for replacing the bone ; and whilst he was still upon the floor I rested his olecranon upon my foot, so as to prevent the ulna from receding, and then extended the fore arm; and under these favorable circumstances, the radius returned to its natural situation. The fourth case was that of a gentleman in Old Broad-street, to whom I was called by Mr. Gordon, of Oxford-court, in the city; and the manner in which we succeeded in the reduction was as follows:—We placed our patient Upon a sofa, and bent his arm over the back of it; then making extension from the hand without including the ulna, the os humeri being fixed by the sofa, the radius in a few minutes slipped into its place. The fifth case was that from which was made the preparation preserved in our collection at St. Thomas’s Hospital. That preparation was one morning lying on my chimney-piece, when a gentleman of high character at the bar called upon me: who said, “What have you here?” And when I mentioned the