ON ULCERS. 1 16 Menstrual ulcer. Ulcers from varicose veins. Treatment. or poulticing the part, remove the loose portion of nail; this permits the matter to escape, and instantaneous relief is the result. The next ulcer that I shall describe is the menstrual; 1 mean by this, a sore which is once in three weeks or a month covered with blood. This complaint is connected with amenorrhoea. In going round the hospitals, you all must have observed that females will one day have their sores covered with pus, and probably on the next day covered with blood. In fact, the menstrual ulcer is of very common occurrence. You must wash these sores with liq. calcis and calomel, give to the patient the mist. ferr. c. myrrh, and pil. hydr. submur. comp., one ounce and a half of the former twice or three times a-day; and five grains of the latter every night at bed- time. These medicines will generally succeed in improving the state of the constitution, by restoring the defective secretions. The next ulcers that I shall describe are those which arise from varicose veins ; and here I shall detain you for a few moments, as the subject is one of some importance. The veins in different parts of the body often become varicose, but those of the lower extre- mities by far the most frequently so. This condition of the vessels may arise from a variety of causes; but the more immediate one appears to be either a thickening of the valves, so that they are incapable of approximating, or a rupture of the valves: in either case the effects will be the same—the blood pressing in one unin- terrupted column—the veins become distended and serpentine, and the valves widely separated from each other—their arteries, by their powerful attempts to return the blood to the part, soon excite inflammation, and ulceration quickly supervenes. What are the common effects produced here by the first desquamation of the cuticle? Why, the whole surface covering the diseased veins is formed into a crust, under which a quantity of serum is secreted. The first thing to be attended to in these cases is the recumbent posture: in fact, this position is indispensable; you can do nothing without it. Lint wetted by the mercurial wash should be laid on the ulcers—oiled silk over these, and then the limb should be well and regularly bandaged, beginning at the foot. The bandage allows