3.54 FRACTURES OF THE KNEE. ing of the skin, when there had been much contusion. The means which are most frequently employed in the treatment of this case are as follow: — A roller is applied from the foot to the knee, to prevent the swelling of the leg: and the upper portion of the bone is pressed downwards, as far as it can be without violence, towards the lower, so as to lessen the retraction of the muscles, and produce the approximation of the portions of bone. Then rollers are applied above and below the joint, confining a piece of broad tape next the skin on each side, which crosses the rollers at right angles ; these portions of tape are bent down and tied over the rollers so as to bring them near to each other, and thus keep down the upper portion of bone. Sometimes, in- stead of the tape on each side, a broad piece of linen is bent over the rollers on the fore part of the joint, and is there confined so as to approximate the pieces of bone, and to bind down the upper portion of the patella that its lower broken edge may not turn forwards. But the mode I prefer is as follows:—A leathern strap should be buckled around the thigh, above the broken and elevated por- tion of bone ; and from this circular piece of leather, another strap is passed under the middle of the foot, the leg being extended, and the foot raised as much as possible. This strap is brought upon each side of the tibia and patella, and buckled to that which is fixed around the lower part of the thigh. The strap may be confined to the foot by a tape tied to it, and to the leg at any part in the same manner ; and this is the most convenient bandage for the fractured patella, and for the patella dislocated upwards by the laceration of its ligament; a roller is to be applied upon the leg. In this position, and thus confined, the limb is to be kept for five weeks in the adult, and for six w'eeks at a more ad- vanced age. Then a slight passive motion is to be begun, and this must be done gently and with so much circumspection, that the ligament if not firmly united, shall not give way, nor the bones recede. If \ il t 11, t !