453 FRACTURES OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. of dislocation of the radius and ulna backwards ; and the mode of distinguishing the two injuries is, by the removal of all the marks of dislocation on extension, and by their return so soon as the extension is discontinued; in general, also, these accidents are detected by rolling the fore arm upon the humerus, when a cre- pitus may be felt just above the elbow-joint. This fracture happens at all periods of life, but much more fre- quently in children than in persons of advanced age. Its treatment consists in bending the arm, and drawing it for- wards to effect replacement: then a roller should be applied while it is in the bent position. The best splint for it is one formed at right angles, of which the upper portion should be placed behind the upper arm, and the lower portion under the fore arm : a splint must also be placed on the fore part of the upper arm, and both should be confined by straps; evaporating lotions should be used, and the arm kept in the bent position by a sling. In a fort- night, if the patient be young, passive motion may be gently begun, to prevent the occurrence of anchylosis; and in the adult, at the end of three weeks a similar treatment is to be pursued. But even after the most careful and judicious means which can be adopted, there is sometimes considerable loss of motion ; and when the accident has not been understood, or has been carelessly treated, the deformity and loss of motion become very considerable. FRACTURE OF THE INTERNAL CONDYLE OF THE OS HUMERI. The internal condyle of the humerus is frequently broken ob- liquely from the other condyles and body of the bone; and the symptoms by which the accident is known are as follow. First. The ulna appears dislocated from it and from the broken condyle, projecting behind the humerus when the arm is extended. Secondly.' The ulna resumes its natural situation in bending the arm. Thirdly. By grasping the condyles, and bending and extending the fore arm, a crepitus is perceived at the internal condyle. nature of this accident. The period of life at which the accident happens most frequently. Treatment. Symptoms of pacture.