FRACTURES OF THE KNEE. 3(52 Oblique frac- tures of the tibia into the joint. Fractures just below the joint. Union with the tibia. Produced by violence or re- laxation. FRACTURE OF THE HEAD OF THE TIBIA. The head of the tibia is sometimes obliquely broken ; and if it be fractured into the knee-joint, the treatment which it requires is similar to that which is necessary in the oblique fracture of the condyle of the os femoris; that is, first, to maintain the straight position of the limb, because the femur preserves the proper adaptation of the fractured tibia by serving as a splint to its upper portion, and keeping the articular surfaces in apposition. Secondly, a roller to press one part of the broken surface against the other. Thirdly, a splint of pasteboard to assist in the pre- servation of that pressure. And fourthly, early passive motion to prevent anchylosis. But if the fracture of the tibia be oblique, yet not into the joint, then it is best to place the limb upon the double inclined plane: for the cause of deformity being the elevation of the lower portion of the tibia, which is drawn up on the side of the knee- joint as the fracture is in the inner or outer side of the tibia, the weight of the leg keeps the limb constantly extended as it hangs over the angle of the inclined plane; and thus the bone is brought into as accurate apposition as the nature of the fracture permits. ' DISLOCATION OF THE HEAD OF THE FIBULA. The fibula joins the tibia three quarters of an inch below the articulation of the knee. Its head is inclosed in a capsular liga- ment, which unites it to the tibia, to which it is also joined through the greater part of its length by the interrosseous liga- ment. This bone is liable to dislocation, both from violence and from relaxation. I have only seen one case of it from violence; and in that instance it was connected with the compound fracture of the tibia. Briggs, of whose dislocation of the tibia I have given an account, had, at the upper part of the other leg, a compound frac- ture of the tibia, and dislocation of the head of the fibula. An