DISLOCATIONS OF TIIE OS HUMERI. 432 Diagnostic signs. The unfrequent occurrence of this accident. Symptoms. DISLOCATION OF THE OS HUMERI ON THE DORSUM SCAPUL/E. In this dislocation, the head of the bone is thrown upon the pos- terior surface of the inferior costa of the scapula. It is an acci- dent which cannot be mistaken, as there is a protuberance formed by the bone upon the scapula, which immediately strikes the eye ; and when the elbow is rotated, this protuberance rolls also. The dislocated head of the bone may be easily grasped between the fingers, and distinctly felt resting below the spine of the scapula; the motions of the arm are impaired, but not to the same extent as in either of the other states of luxation. Two cases of this accident have occurred in Guy’s Hospital in thirty-eight years; the first during my apprenticeship. It hap- pened during the anatomical lecture at St. Thomas’s Hospital. The surgery-man came to the theatre, and announced that there was a dislocation of the shoulder at Guy’s Hospital; when Mr. Cline went over with the students to see the accident, and met Mr. Foster, under w'hose care the patient was admitted. The na- ture of the accident was at once obvious, from the projection of the head of the bone on the dorsum scapulae. The bandages were applied in the same manner as if the head of the humerus had been in the axilla, and the extension was made in the same direction as in that accident. During the progress of the adjustment of the apparatus, some conversation took place between Mr. Cline and Mr. Foster, as to what variation in direction there should be given to the bone, if the first attempt should not succeed; but in less than five minutes, the bone slipped into the glenoid cavity with a loud snap. The second case, which occurred several years after, was easily reduced by the dressers, under the same treatment. PARTIAL DISLOCATION OF THE OS HUMERI. I believe this is not a very rare accident, and it shews itself by the following marks. The head of the bone is drawn forwards against the coracoid process ; there is a depression opposite the back of the shoulder-