OF LARGE HERNIAS. 103 J this woman a month after the operation, when she had a hernia nearly as large as the one for which the operation had been per- ! formed, and at the same spot; she was subsequently obliged to j wear a truss constantly, to prevent the protrusion of this liernia. From this it appears that the removal of the sac will not prevent the re-formation of a hernia, nor do I think, upon reflection, that it i scarcely could be expected to do so, as the aperture from the ab- | domen remains equally large, and the peritoneum alone offers re- sistance to the formation of another hernia, and this had been in- sufficient to prevent the protrusion of the first. The removal of the sac by ligature is equally objectionable, even if it could be done without risk, which it hardly could, more espe- cially in oblique inguinal hernia, as the ligature ought, in such cases, to be applied close to the internal ring, which could not be done without a very tedious and hazardous dissection; besides, I the spermatic cord is sometimes divided by the sac, which would increase the difficulty and danger of such an operation. The great danger of this operation is in the inflammation, which j is likely to be induced by the action of the ligature upon the peri- i toneum, and in this inflammation extending to the cavity of the ab- domen. OF LARGE HERN I/E. In very large inguinal hernias a very different mode of operating is required, to that which I have already described, for the follow- ing reasons:— When a large hernia has existed for some time, the cavity of the abdomen becomes diminished, from the habitual loss of a large portion of its natural contents, and such a resistance is offered when any attempt is made to return the contents of the hernial sac, that the intestine sometimes gives way, or is lacerated from the violence employed in attempting to reduce it, and even if it can be returned, the slightest exertion will occasion a further pro- trusion. Removal of the sac not success- ful. Objection to re nioval of the sac by a ligature. Danger of. Different opera- tion required. Difficulty of re- ducing.