172 OF THE INCISED WOUND. Adhesion pre- vents danger. a little. Although he promised to call on me daily, I did not see him again till the fourth of July. I had concluded, that he had applied to some other practitioner; but, on the second of July, a gentleman called on me, and gave me the following account of the patient:— “ Two days after the accident, the patient, under the influence of the ridicule of his acquaintance for giving credit to my assur- ances, applied to another practitioner; who, on learning the his- tory of the case, represented the impropriety of any one but myself intermeddling with it. But, prepossessed with the belief that he carried about a portion of dead matter tied to the stump of his finger, the man insisted upon having the bandages removed, which was accordingly done. Thus were nearly rendered abortive my attempts to produce reunion of the parts, and the profession de- prived of a fact, which, as demonstrating the powers of nature to repair injuries, is inferior to none in the annals of the healing art. Fortunately, however, nature had been too busy for even this early interference to defeat her purpose,—adhesion had taken place. “ In consequence of the information I got from this gentleman, i I found out the patient on the fourth, when reunion of the parts was complete. The finger was in fact the handsomest the man had, and had recovered both heat and sensation. In the progress * of the cure, the skin was changed, and soon after the accident the nail fell off. “ From the account of persons present when the injury was in- flicted, I am satisfied that twenty minutes must have elapsed before the parts were replaced; for the patient did not come to me immediately upon receiving the injury, but waited a consider- able time in the building where the accident happened. “ The amputated part, as measured by the patient himself, was one inch and a half long, on the thumb side, and one inch on the opposite side.” When adhesion of the incised wounds can be completely effected, • the danger ceases. An incised wound into the abdomen, exposing |