175 ON WOUNDS OF THE BRAIN. It occasionally happens, when a portion of the brain has been lost, that a piece of the cranium will, by being driven in, occupy its place; and if, in these cases, no symptoms of compression manifest themselves, you must not elevate the depressed bone : for were you to do so, you would, in all probability, give rise to extra- vasation, or increase the hazard of inflammation. The late Mr. Chandler had a patient in this hospital, who, on receiving a blow from a boat-hook upon the parietal bone, had a portion of that bone driven into the brain, and at the same time a quantity of the brain was lost: at first there was hemiplegia ; this effect, however, soon disappeared. The depressed bone was permitted to remain, and the individual perfectly recovered. Such cases are not uncommon, and 1 could relate a number of them to you. The danger attending injuries of the brain arises principally from y>anger two causes, viz. inflammation, and the formation of fungus. 1st, attending injuries of Inflammation, and, 2nd, Fungus ; but I am happy to tell you, that brain, both of these may be conquered by scientific and prompt treatment. When the brain receives a wound, you must commence your curative exertions by abstracting as large a quantity of blood from the system as the constitution of your patient will bear; not, however, to such an extent as to prevent the restorative operations of nature. Do not lower the system to such a degree as to prevent inflammation altogether, as was done by the dresser in the other hospital, whose partiality for bleeding I mentioned to you a few evenings since. Though you succeed in keeping down inflamma- ! actually empaled on the projecting catch of the falling-bar; I immediately placed a hand on each side of his head, and lifted it off. After being put to bed, I found a wound extending from the coronal suture, on the right side, obliquely inwards about two inches. I removed the hair and portions of bone which had been driven in ; the wound was dressed with lint dipped in cold water, and strapped over. Twenty ounces of blood were taken from the arm, I and the strictest antiphlogistic remedies employed. For two days he went on ! favourably, but the inmates of a public-house are not always the best of nurses : I had reason to suspect that they had been giving him spirits, and in conse- ; quonce I had him removed to Guy’s Hospital, under Mr. Key, who completed a l cure in three weeks.—L.