ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. APPEARANCES. 58 In amputation. Old practice. Dressing the stump. to leave the other hanging from the mouth of the wound, to be removed when the ulcerative process is completed, which is from ten to fourteen days. Dr. Veitch, I believe, first advised the removal of half the ligature. After amputation, having disposed your ligatures in a line with each other, and leaving them to hang out at the most depending part of the wound, you will, if the limb be removed above the elbow or knee, apply a bandage, to prevent retraction of the muscles and extensive suppuration. I have seldom succeeded with my stumps above the knee when I have not used a roller; it is better to apply a roller in such cases, for the muscles will then be glued together, and form one consolidated mass. Having applied a roller, and brought the integuments together, I merely put three strips of adhesive plaster over the wound, and one round the stump, to keep the ends of the plaster in their place. It is curious to see the difference between the mode of dressing stumps now, and that adopted a few years ago; the old practice, was, after the adhesive plaster had been applied, to put some lint, then plaster again, after that tow, and, lastly, over the whole, a cap of flannel. If a surgeon were to do this now, he would be laughed out of the operating theatre, and very deservedly too, because he would prevent the success of the adhesive process by unduly heating the limb. All that is necessary to do, is to apply three strips of adhesive plaster over the wound, and one circular piece; if the weather be hot, to apply the spirit of wine and water lotion, and if it be cool to keep the limb quiet. The object is to keep down the inflammation to the adhesive stage: if it goes beyond this, suppu- ration will be the result. The last circumstance necessary to mention, is the impropriety of dressing the stump too early; a person anxious to see whether a union has taken place, removes the plasters in two or three days: he who does this overlooks the object in view, and must be shocked, when he looks at the stump, to see, that by the early removal of the plasters, he has destroyed all that nature had done. All you ought to do is, in four days after the operation, to remove one strip