INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 7 to be upheld at the expense of the other : far from it, indeed they should mutually assist in the great duty of preserving human existence. Reading will be found extremely useful, when it is select; but I Reading, would not recommend works to young students which bay down systems for their guidance; such a plan of reading is bad. It is better to read the detached works on particular diseases. To the pupils generally, but more particularly to those who are allowed to pass in this metropolis but one or two seasons in attending the different hospitals, I strongly recommend punctuality in their attend- ance atlectui’es, and at the dissections and hospital practice. In St. Thomas’s Hospital alone, you have an opportunity of seeing above 800 in-door, and a vast number of out-door patients, whose cases are equally useful as interesting to students. I caution pupils from speaking unguardedly before the patients ; it can do no good to let them know what is intended for their cure, which it very often prevents. Some time ago, a man came into Guy’s Hospital, having a disease that required an operation, and by no means a dangerous one. A pupil, when conversing with him, asked him where he Making impro- came from : the man replied, “ From Cornwall.” “ O did you ?” remarks to Txi6 patient. said the pupil; “ Well, I can tell you, you will never see Cornwall again.” The patient became alarmed, and immediately left the hospital. I recommend to you, also, the practice of taking notes, but not Taking notes, hasty ones, as they do more harm than service, by causing one term to be mistaken for another. I am happy to bear witness to the great improvement which has improvement taken place, of late years, in the education of those who are comin°-111 the course ° of education. forward in the various classes of medical pupils: this I consider a most essential advantage, as it tends, more than any other circum- stance, to raise the character of the profession to its proper station. To the Company of Apothecaries, society is much indebted, as to them we owe the act which makes a certain course of education indispensable to medical students. In the metropolis, surgeons, of course, are highly respected, but not equally so in the country, for