OF THE TREATMENT OF PILES OR HAEMORRHOIDS. 429 If prolapsus be produced, it should be washed with a solution of Prolapsus, alum and oak bark, and it should be returned by a piece of linen dipped in oil, or covered by ceratum cetacei. When the piles are inflamed and a prolapsus is produced, purge Inflammation, the patient once freely; apply leeches; foment and poultice the part, and give opium as soon as the purgative medicine has operated. For two or three days let the bowels be quiet: the leeches, fomentations, and poultices being continued, then purge again; for daily purging adds to the inflammation and irritation. I have known the application of cold water to the prolapsus useful, also the acetate of lead lotion, and the lotion mixed in a poultice, agrees best upon the whole; although the warmer applica- l tions are the most congenial with the patient’s feelings. Spontaneous bleedings from the piles greatly relieve them; and I Puncture, have therefore sometimes punctured them with a lancet, with a view to the relief of the congestion of the vessels. However, all the means which can be employed will not always ' prevent their increase; nor when they are once suffered to acquire considerable magnitude, and to produce prolapsus ani, can they be subdued by any medical or local treatment short of operation. To examine a patient properly under these circumstances, and to Mode of exa- mination. enable you to form a correct judgment of the necessity for, and the mode of operating, it it necessary that the patient should have an evacuation; and that, before the return of the prolapsus, the surgeon should examine the part. He will then observe a portion of the rectum, forming the outer circle, and a number of round and dark-coloured projections, occupying tbe more central parts of the protruded mass. The operation is then ascertained to be necessary or not, according to the degree of prolapsus and the number and size of the piles. Having determined that an operation is required, it is next to be considered in what manner it is to be performed. It may be done by excision, or by ligature, or it may be effected Jp^°a™°^es °f by a combination of the two.