348 01' THE SIMPLE CHRONIC TUMOUR OF THE BREAST. Diagnosis. Dissection of the tumour. Cause. T reatment. Removal by operation. The diagnosis of this disease consists in the youth of the patient; in the absence from pain ; in the appearance of general health; in the slow growth of the swelling; in its superficial situation at first; in its extreme mobility ; in its feel being that of the lobes of the breast enlarged, and therefore it is a conglomerate tumour; the glands in the axilla being free from disease. Upon dissection, the swelling is found to be composed of a number of lobes connected together by a condensed cellular tissue, and which appear as enlargements of the lobes of the mammary gland. These lobes are composed of smaller, which, by macera- tion, may be separated. The appearance of the disease, when cut into, is that of sweet-bread, that is, tabulated'in fevery part, or composed of large tabes, which are divisible into smaller. The cause of the disease is unknown. I have heard it frequently attributed, by the patient, to the pressure of the bones in her stays, or that of some part of her dress. In the treatment of this disease, little is effected by medicine. I generally order the emplast: ammon : c. hydrargyro to be applied to the part, and give hydrarg: c. creta with soda and rhubarb, but the disease rarely disappears. The great gratification which the patient receives in this case, is from the assurance that the com- plaint is not of a malignant nature. If the disease increases, in spite of an alterative treatment, and the patient becomes anxious for its removal, there is very trifling risk from the operation, for I have frequently performed it at my own house, and the patients have returned home immediately afterwards. When, however, these swellings grow to a very large size, the vessels supplying them become extremely increased; and I remember seeing one removed from the left side, in which case the vessel that supplied the tumour was so large as to afford a gush of blood, which alarmed the surgeon, from the idea of there being some communication between the tumour and the interior of the chest. hen they are small, as they usually remain, it is right to secure each vessel which continues to bleed, however slightly, or the wound will be obliged to be re-opened to secure it.