39 LOCAL TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. dren, is one grain of the hydrarg. cum creta, and two or three grains of powdered rhubarb, mixed together, and given night and morning: this compound is exceedingly mild, and will have a par- ticularly benign influence on the liver and intestines. One grain of oxymuriate of mercury, dissolved in an ounce of tincture of bark, and from ten to fifteen drops, according to the age of the child, being given twice a day, will likewise be found a very valuable medicine. It is said, that oxymuriate is decomposed by the bark ; but, whether it be so or not, it is attended with so many good effects, that I shall continue to prescribe it; and especially in those cases where there is enlargement of the mesenteric glands. Calo- mel and rhubarb, the hydr. cum creta, and soda, will also be found medicines of much power in the chronic diseases of children. Lastly, as it is not advisable to give these little creatures mer- Powder for cury, if it can be avoided, a medicine, composed of two grains of rhubarb, and five grains of the carbonate of iron, given two or three times a-day, will often render its employment unnecessary: this medicine acts as an aperient and powerful tonic. The nature of inflammation I hope you all now thoroughly under- stand ; recollect that the vessels of the part are in a dilated state, and the surrounding ones have an increased action. I shall next speak of the LOCAL TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. Much has been said about the application of cold in these affec- Local treat- tions. People have been arguing about words rather than ideas, ™ent ot in" but it really is not worth while to attend to such fastidious, nonsen- sical objections as have been started against this remedy. Though cold is not a positive agent, yet it is capable of affording great relief in inflammation; first, by lessening the size of the vessels; se- condly, hy lessening action, which it effects by diminishing nervous irritability. If cold be applied to the system generally, it has the Effects of cold power of lessening the frequency of the pulse in an extraordinary degree. I have tried this upon myself. I went out of my house