OF WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 185 But this process is also aided by the contraction of the artery, not particularly at the divided part, but also to a considerable ex- tent from the orifice. If the carotid artery, on one side, be cut across, and examined after the death of the animal, the artery is found much smaller on the wounded side than on the other which has not been injured. This state of the vessel lessens the influence of the blood upon the wound. A retraction of the artery also follows when the division of the vessel is complete; and, by withdrawing itself into the cellular membrane, the blood becomes effused around it, so as to com- press its orifice. Thus, then, it appears that coagulation with con- traction and retraction of the vessel, all concur to put a check to the bleeding. These, then, are the immediate means ; but it is required that a further process should take place, to render their effects permanent. Inflammation follows; and the clot of blood becomes glued to the inner surface of the vessel, whilst effusion into the surrounding parts creates pressure upon the artery so as to diminish its calibre; this inflammation also usually produces a union of the edges of the wound, or otherwise granulations arise, fill it, and thus it becomes closed. The treatment, when an artery of not a very large size, is di- vided in an extremity, is to apply a tourniquet to compress the trunk from which it is supplied; this, with gentle pressure on the wound for a short time, will generally command the haemorrhage, when the edges of the wound may be approximated, and union promoted, leaving on the tourniquet, so as to continue a moderate pressure on the trunk. But if the vessel be large, it is necessary to make an incision in the direction it takes, so as to expose the wounded portions, when a ligature must be placed above and below on each portion of the vessel. The ligatures should be small, and one of the ends removed after their application. Dr. Vetch first recommended the removal of one of the threads. Contraction of the vessels. Retraction of the vessel. Process of in- flammation. Pressure. Application of a ligature.