258 DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. The warm bath. Antim. Tart. Combination of remedies. lowing means: viz., bleeding, warm-bath, and nausea. Of these remedies. I consider bleeding the most powerful; and, that the effect may be produced as quickly as possible, the blood should be drawn from a large orifice, and the patient kept in the erect posi- tion, for by this mode of depletion, syncope is produced before too large a quantity of blood is lost. However, the activity of this practice must be regulated by the constitution of the patient; if he be young, athletic, and muscular, the quantity removed should be considerable, and the method of taking it away should be that which I have described. In those cases in which the warm-bath may be thought prefer- able, or where it may be considered improper to continue the bleeding, the bath should be employed at the temperature of 100° to 110°; and, as the object is the same as in bleeding, the person should be kept in the bath at the same heat till the fainting effect is produced, when he should be immediately placed in a chair, j wrapped in a blanket, and the mechanical means employed which 1 shall hereafter particularly describe. flj L Of late years, I have practised the mode of lowering the action x of the muscles, by exhibiting nauseating doses of tartarized anti- mony ; but as its action is uncertain, frequently producing vomit- ing, which is unnecessary, I rather recommend its application , merely to such extent as to keep up the state of syncope already produced by the two preceding means; this its nauseating tendency will most readily effect, and so powerfully overcome the tone of r the muscles, that dislocations may be reduced with much less effort, and at a much more distant period from the accident, by these means, than in any other way. The two cases related in the follow pages, one from Mr. Nor- wood, surgeon at Hertford, and the other from Mr. Thomas, apo- thecary to St. Luke’s Hospital, will illustrate the efficacy of the treatment recommended. By the combination of bleeding, the warm-bath, and nauseating doses of tartarized antimony, two dis- locations were reduced at a more distant period from the accident than I have ever known in any other example. One of these