241 DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. In a dislocation of the os femoris, which still remains unreduced, a consultation was held upon the nature of the injury, and after a long deliberation, a report was made by one of the surgeons to this effect: “ Well, Sir, thank God, we are all agreed that there is no dislocation.” Proh pudor!! ! A considerable share of anatomical knowledge is required to detect the nature of these accidents, as well as to suggest the proper means of reduction; and it is much to be lamented, that students neglect to inform themselves sufficiently of the structure of the joints. They often dissect the muscles of a limb with great neatness and minuteness, and then throw it away, without any ex- amination of the ligaments, cartilages, or ends of the bones ; a knowledge of which, in a surgical point of view, is of infinitely greater importance ; and from such negligence arise the errors into which those novices fall when they embark in the practice of their profession ; for the dislocations of the hip, the elbow, and the shoul- der, are scarcely to be detected, but by those who possess accurate anatomical information. Even our hospital surgeons, who have neglected their anatomy, mistake these accidents ; and I have known the pulleys applied to an hospital patient, in a case of fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, which had been mistaken for a dislo- cation, and the patient exposed, through the surgeon’s ignorance, to a violent and protracted extension. It is therefore proper, that the form of the extremities of the bones, their mode of articulation, the ligaments by which they are connected, and the direction in which their most powerful muscles act, should be well understood. Yet it would be an injustice not to acknowledge, that the tumefaction arising from extravasation of blood, and the tension resulting from the inflammation, which frequently ensues, will, in the early days of the accident, render it difficult for the best surgeon perfectly to ascertain the exact extent of the injury; and, herefore, conclusions drawn at a time when the muscles are wasted, and the swelling is dispersed, when the head of the bone tan be distinctly felt, and the motions of the limb are found to be mpeded in a particular direction,—if they tend to the prejudice of VOL. II. Knowledge of anatomy necessary. Difficult some- times to detect from tumefac- tion.