FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART OF THE THIGIT-BONE. 303 patient is standing on the sound leg, with the fractured limb un- supported, by rotating it inwards, the crepitus will sometimes be perceived, as the weight of the limb brings the broken bones nearer in apposition. Women are much more liable to this species of fracture than men: we rarely in our hospitals observe it in the latter, but our wards are seldom without an example of it in the aged female. The more horizontal position of the neck of the bone, and the comparative feebleness of the female constitution, are the probable reasons of this peculiarity. To the circumstances I have already mentioned, as strongly cha- racterizing this accident, must be added the period of life at which it usually occurs; for the fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone within the capsular ligament, seldom happens but at an advanced period of life, whilst the other fractures which I have to describe, happen at all periods; and hence has arisen the great confusion with respect to the nature of this injury; for we find that sur- geons of the highest character have confounded fractures external to the capsular ligament with those which are within the articula- tion ; and mention the latter as occurring at a period of life in which they scarcely ever happen*. It has been also said, that in early life these bones will readily unite; an assertion which I notice only to shew the confusion which has arisen on this sub- ject. Old age, however, is a very indefinite term ; for in some it is as strongly marked at sixty, as in others at eighty years. That re- gular decay of nature which is called old age, is attended with changes which are easily detected in the dead body ; and one of the principal of these is found in the bones, for they become thin in their shell, and spongy in their texture. The process of absorp- tion and deposition varies at different periods of life; in youth i the arteries, which are the builders of the body, deposit more than | the absorbents remove, and hence is derived the great source of its More frequent in women. Age. Changes in bone occasioned by age. I allude particularly to Dessault.