158 ON INJURIES OF TIIE HEAD. Case. Former practice. Comparative view. Gentlemen, I never lecture to you but from the recollection of some case that has occurred to me. I was very intimate with a Mr. T. of Yarmouth, where I used to spend a good deal of time when a hoy; after my apprenticeship was finished, I went down to this place, and I found Mr. T. labouring under the effects of concussion; his mind was not in the least affected : he had received a blow on the forehead from a bludgeon, and he was afterwards frequently seized with sickness at the stomach. I called on him: and when I went into the room, I said, I come to ask you how you are : in approaching me he was obliged to put his handkerchief to his mouth to prevent the contents of his stomach going over me. In his walks he had frequent vomitings; a relation who was at Yarmouth twelve months after this, said to him, that he had better have the trephine applied, and the portion of bone removed: to which he readily consented. After the operation his symptoms were not relieved; he remained just the same; or I should rather say that he was not relieved, for he did not continue long in the same state ; he soon got worse and worse ; his bowels became costive, the powers of the mind affected, and he died in consequence of the operation, though he had lived two years after the injury, before it was performed. Mr. B., now in Yarmouth, was living with him at the time, and he could tell more of the particulars than myself; but this I know, that he was not benefited by the operation, but injured by it. But for a more direct proof that it is dangerous : Dr. Farre told me that he knew a person who wras subject to epileptic fits after concussion of the brain, and that he was extremely anxious to be trephined. The operation of trephining was performed, and he died soon afterwards. Do not think, gentlemen, that I mention this as an uncommon case; but this used to be the plan adopted with almost all the patients admitted into these hospitals during my apprenticeship; they were all submitted to the operation; inflammation of the membranes of the brain supervened, and nearly all died; recovery being very rare. But do our patients now die from the effects of concussion ( No; by bleeding and depletion we rarely lose a