378 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. Mental sym- ptoms improve. Sawing off the ends of the bones. Reasons. Difficult reduc- tion. Oblique frac- ture. around the lacerated parts, and the limb was placed on its outer side, with the knee considerably bent. The parts were ordered to be kept cool by the frequent application of evaporating lotion. The patient remained as quiet as could be expected from a per- son in his state of mind until the third or fourth day, when a con- siderable inflammation appeared in the joint, and greatly increased the previous irritable state of his constitution. Leeches, fomenta- tions and poultices wTere applied to the limb; blood was taken from tbe arm, purgative medicines were given, and afterwards saline medicines with sudorifics. Extensive suppuration ensued, and continued for six weeks or two months, when it began to lessen, and healthy granulations appeared on the whole wounded surfaces ; about this time the state of his mind began to improve, and it continued to amend as his leg advanced in recovery. At the end of four or five months the suppurated parts had filled up, the joint healed, and his mind recovered its natural tone. At the end of nine months he returned to his employment, but the ancle-joint was stiff. In two years he had so far recovered as to walk without the aid of a stick; and at the end of three or four years was able to pursue his avocations nearly as well as at any former period of his life. REMOVING THE ENDS OF THE BONES. There is another mode of treatment in these accidents, which consists in sawing off the extremity of the tibia before the bone is returned into its natural situation; and the reasons which may be assigned for pursuing this practice are as follow. First. There is in some cases ftiuch difficulty in the reduction of the tibia, and great violence must be employed to effect it. Secondly. The extremity of the bone is often broken obliquely, so that when reduced it will not remain upon the astragalus, but when the point is removed by the saw, it rests without difficulty upon that bone. ie « $ ■C