THE DISSECTION 40 Epigastric artery. Obturator artery. Septum crurale. it, we observe in the female the round ligament of the uterus, and in the male the spermatic cord. The epigastric artery is situated on the iliac side of the ring, the exact distance of the vessel depending on its mode of origin; if it proceed separately from the external iliac trunk, the artery may be placed at the distance of three-quarters of an inch, or even one inch, but if, as very often happens, the epigastric arises in common with the obturator, then that vessel is brought close to the outer margin of the crural ring. The obturator artery, which usually arises from the internal iliac trunk, not unfrequently takes its origin from the external iliac in common with the preceding; in this case, the vessel passes on the outer side and behind the crural ring. It occasionally, but very rarely happens, that the obturator artery, arising with the epigastric, passes upwards and inwards in such a manner, as to run above, and indeed almost sur- round, the crural ring. On carefully examining the crural ring, and this is best done by completely dividing Poupart’s ligament, leaving, however, the crural sheath entire, it will be seen that it contains one or two lymphatic glands, and a membrane which is perforated by the absorbent vessels, ascending into the abdomen from the thigh; this membrane is called the septum crurale. The crural ring also in general contains some adipose substance, which is situated on the outer surface of that portion of the peritoneum which lines this part of the abdominal wall. This fatty matter is occasionally accumulated in considerable quantity, so as to constitute a distinct projection; and as it is sometimes contained in a kind of capsule formed of condensed cellular tissue, it may be mistaken for the omentum during an operation. Before describing the course of the femoral hernia, it is neces- sary to state, that when the ligament of Poupart is cut through, which ought to be done in order to examine the formation of the femoral sheath, it will be observed, that underneath the liga- ment and closely connected with it, there is a dense ligamentous