DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. tion; but those who entertain this opinion must forget their in- elastic structure, and cannot have had opportunities of witnessing by dissection, the extensive laceration which they sustain in dis- locations from violence. The capsular ligaments, in truth, possess but little strength either to prevent dislocation, or to resist the means of reduction; and if the tendons with which they are covered, and the peculiar ligaments of the joints did not exist, dis- location must be of very frequent occurrence. The joint of the shoulder, and those of the knee and elbow, are strongly protected by tendons; the shoulder by those of the spi- nati, subscapularis and teres minor muscles ; the elbow by the triceps and brachialis ; the knee by the tendinous expansion of the vasti: but still some ligaments resist dislocations : these, however, are the peculiar, not the capsular ligaments. The wrist and the elbow have their appropriate lateral ligaments to give additional strength to these joints. The shoulder, instead of a peculiar liga- ment, has the tendon of the biceps received into it, which lessens the tendency to dislocation forwards; the ligamentum teres of the hip-joint prevents facility of dislocation downwards; the knee has its lateral and crucial ligaments; and the ankle, exposed as it is to the most severe injuries, is provided with its deltoid and fibular itarsal ligaments, of very extraordinary strength, to prevent dis- location. The bones of this joint often break rather than their igaments give way; however, in many of the joints, as these liga- nents are torn, they afford no resistance to the reduction of dis- ocations, as in the hip, elbow, and wrist; but if one of them re- nain, it produces difficulty in the reduction, as I have seen in the inee-joint. The difficulty of reducing dislocations arises principally from he resistance which the muscles present by their contraction, and vhich is proportioned to the length of time which has elapsed from lie injury; it is therefore desirable that the attempt at reduction hould not be long delayed. The common action of the muscles, are voluntary or involun- Tendons. Peculiar ments. Muscles.