345 CAUSE OF THE FUNGOID DISEASE. ! part of the body, may become affected by it. In the dissection then of these cases we meet with the glands in the axilla sometimes slightly enlarged; and next, tumours, in various parts of the | cellular tissue, in great numbers; the lungs I have seen loaded with them : the liver is generally tuberculated, and I have seen one kidney affected. The uterus has soft tumours on its surface, and I sometimes a polypus growing from its interior, which has been called by that able accoucheur and excellent man, Mr. Clarke, the cauliflower excrescence, or polypus uteri. I have known almost every internal organ affected by it, even the brain itself. CAUSE OF THE FUNGOID DISEASE. It is evident, in a disease which affects several different parts of Constitu- 1 the body, out of the line of absorption, that a constitutional cause tiona ’ must exist to produce it: yet it has also a local malignant action, so that a part shall become diseased whilst the surrounding parts still maintain their natural functions. Thus the disease is formed Local specific of a constitutional disposition to the complaint, with a local specific actl0n‘ action. Upon removing these tumours, the surrounding surfaces generally heal rapidly, and without any malignant action being- observed upon the wounded part. The incision, in removing these tumours, must, however, be extended into the healthy parts, at a considerable distance from the diseased; for if there be inflamma- tion in the vicinity of the tumour, the malignant action will recur in it. I have known, in amputating a limb above the elbow, for this disease in the elbow joint, the skin inflamed between the elbow and shoulder, and the stump assumed the fungoid character. Care- fully, therefore, avoid cutting near the diseased part, or the com- plaint will be certain to return. The predisposition to this disease in the constitution is founded Predisposing upon anxiety of mind, and on those circumstances which have causes- a tendency to destroy the regular and natural functions of the body.