OF TIIF, OPERATION OF PARACENTESIS. 4.51 afterwards not to drink, but merely to suck an orange when she was thirsty : with respect to her solid food I put her under no restraint. The next time I tapped her, I allowed her to take as much fluid as nature prompted, but she filled faster with water in the former than in the latter case ; the cause of the difference appeared to me to consist in the excitement of the kidneys which the fluids occasioned. A considerable effect is produced in retarding the progress of this Pressure, disease, by the patient’s wearing a belt, which, by its pressure, prevents the ready secretion from the exhalent extremities of the vessels into the interior of the bag. I therefore always lay my patients under the injunction to obtain and wear one. A patient who is affected with this disease has the general health so little deranged, as not to require any change in the general mode of living ; exercise may be taken, and the same diet allowed as under < ordinary circumstances. OF THE OPERATION OF PARACENTESIS. This operation ought never to be performed early in the disease, I but it should be deferred until the accumulation of water by its 1 pressure upon the diaphragm influences the function of respiration. If the quantity of water in ascites be but small, much danger is to be apprehended of the trocar reaching the viscera; and in the ovarian dropsy the operation must not be performed early, because the adhesion of the ovarian cyst to the peritoneum on the fore part of the abdomen is not yet produced. The viscera, therefore, glide down between the cyst and the parietes ; and I once saw, in a case of ovarian dropsy, the omentum caught by the canula, and a portion of it was brought through the opening in withdrawing the instru- ment, which was obliged to be returned by a probe ; inflammation succeeded, and the woman died. This might have been avoided by further delay; therefore the operation should not be performed until 1 the ovarium ceases to move easily from side to side. A second reason for delaying the operation exists in the numerous ! cysts of which the tumour is first composed, which afterwards break 2 o 2 Not to be per- formed early. Reasons for delay.