434 DISLOCATIONS OF TIIF. OS HUMERI. Case. not add to the difficulty of reduction, but, on the contrary, rather facilitates the return of the bone, as the insertion of the principal opponent muscles, the supra and infra spinati, is removed ; but it increases the difficulty of retaining the bone within the glenoid cavity after the reduction is completed. FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE OS HUMERI, WITH THE DISLOCATION FORWARDS, UNDER TIIE PECTORAL MUSCLE. Mr. John Blackburn fell from his horse, many years ago, at Enfield, and dislocated his shoulder forwards. Mr. Lucas, sen., surgeon of Guy’s Hospital, was sent for; who said, after he had made considerable extension, that the bone was reduced. Five weeks afterwards, Mr. B. came to London, and shewed me his shoulder, when, the appearances of dislocation still remaining, I advised a further extension, to which he would not consent. I had frequent opportunities of seeing him afterwards, but the shoulder exhibited the same appearances of dislocation. He had, however, the power of using the hand and arm in all directions excepting upwards, but could not raise his arm to form a rectangle with his body ; and he suffered but little pain or inconvenience. In June 1824, he died ; and as he had always promised me the d dissection of his shoulder if I survived him, I removed it in the to presence of Mr. Arnott, surgeon of Greenwich Hospital, examined ifc it with great care, and have the bones preserved. The deltoid, j teres major, and coraco-brachialis muscles, did not appear to me titi to be altered; the supra-spinatus was lessened, as was the teres jf| minor, which had lost considerably of its natural colour : the ij (f, infra-spinatus was stretched; the subscapularis, diminished and Ti rounded by the projection of the head of the os humeri, adhered to i ^ its cartilaginous surface. The capsular ligament was torn under n!r the subscapularis muscle, but every other part was entire. The j |t head of the os humeri had been thrown forwards on the inner side of the coracoid process, and had united by bone to the scapula; but its cartilage remained under the tendon of the subscapularis.