15 ON IRRITATION. been paying proper attention to their professional studies, by de- voting their time to anatomical pursuits. The following cases are important, and place in a strong light the dreadful constitutional effects which occasionally result from very slight local causes. A man who had lived intemperately, was bled by the late Mr. Case. Saunders on a Tuesday; on Thursday (having indulged in the interim in the pleasures of the table) the wound in the arm was inflamed; on the Saturday the inflammation had considerably in- creased; on the Sunday gangrene commenced; and on the Monday, I was asked to see him. I found him with the delirium, hiccough, andsubsultus tendinum; and on the following day he died. On dis- section, the skin, to a great extent round the wound, was found mortified; the cellular membrane had suppurated to a large extent, but the vein which had been opened was not inflamed. Dr. Ludlow, of Caine, whilst shooting, pricked his hand with a Case, thorn in getting over a hedge; the part soon became inflamed, and though he procured the best surgical assistance, yet he died of tetanus within a week after the accident. Another remarkable case was that of a brewer’s servant, who, in Case, removing some casks on a Saturday, had a small splinter of wood forced under the thumb nail; at the moment he did not regard it, but in the same night he awoke in dreadful pain, and requested his wife to get up and make a poultice; this he applied, but it did not afford him any relief. On Sunday he became worse; Tuesday the pain had extended up the arm, and his hand was considerably swollen. On Thursday I was requested to see him, and on exami- nation, found that matter was formed in the hand; I made an opening with a lancet near the part where the splinter had entered, when a large quantity of pus was discharged. The man appeared greatly relieved, and I thought he would do well; but upon hearing a noise as I was about to quit the room, I looked round: he had, by a convulsive effort, raised himself in bed, but immediately fell back and expired. An instance of a totally different nature from those just men- Case.