101 ON GRANULATION. had been drawn up, so that the patient had no power of closing his eyes, from a similar cause. Granulations, however, very soon arose on the surface of the forehead; the sore healed kindly, and the father was delighted to see what he supposed to be the favourable termination of the case. Some time after this, however, I saw this gentleman, and, upon inquiring after the child, he told me that he was very well, but that a horrible deformity had ensued from the accident: the eye-brows were drawn up, the eye-lids elevated, and the forehead was quite wrinkled. This took place a few weeks after the healing of the sore, in consequence of the contraction of the cicatrix; and unfortunately this was a deformity incapable of being remedied by any means which art could suggest. I have never seen a case like that represented in the plaster bust on the table, where the chin is united to the breast, which was capable of being cured. You may, by putting a knife behind the bridle, and dividing it, separate the chin, to a considerable extent, from the breast; but whatever force you may use for keeping the head back, the contraction will ultimately be the same. There are some parts of the body, however, in which deformities of this kind may be removed; as in cases in which the thigh is united to the abdomen, where the bridle may be divided, and the joint afterwards straightened; but where the bridle is broad, as under the chin, no operation will avail. In the formation of cicatrices the original parts may all be Parts repro- duced. assistance. Warm poultices were applied until the sloughs came away, then astringents and escharotics. The granulations proceeded very favourably on every part, except on the ball of the thumb, which evidently evinced a disposition to contract in the direction of the Opponens Policis, by forming a rigid cord, which I immediately divided: I re-applied the warm poultices and continued them for about three months; a cicatrix formed, and although there is manifestly a loss of substance, yet no contraction has taken place, and it is now two years ago. Rationale. Why does nature approximate those distant parts, so contrary to her original design? Because she is propelled by a hurried process of cicatrization to form an unnatural union, before she had time to provide a suitable substitute, which she afterwards resents.—L. NaTURAM EXPEI.LAS FURCA. I'AMliN USQUE RECURRET.—Hor.