Adipose tissue. Fascia lata. Iliac portion of the fascia lata. 3G THE DISSECTION with Poupart’s ligament, some above, others below it; the in- ferior are two or three in number, larger, and placed perpendicu- larly or parallel to the saphena vein; and frequently one is placed posterior to this vessel; the deep inguinal glands, in number about three or four, lay beneath the fascia lata, and are closely connected to the sheath of the femoral vessels, chiefly to its inner side: one or two very constantly occupies the femoral ™g. Having raised the fascia superficialis, it will be observed, that a particular depression, more or less distinct, according to the quan- tity of fat, is brought into view. This hollow, which requires to be especially noticed, inasmuch as it lodges the tumour of femoral hernia after the protrusion has cleared the saphenous opening, is placed on the inner side of the groin, below Poupart’s ligament, and in front of the pectineus muscle. In fat persons, and parti- cularly in females, this depression is filled up with a large quan- tity of adipose substance. The fascia lata, which is the common investing membrane of the lower extremity, presents externally a smooth glistening appear- ance, and forms an uninterrupted sheath until it comes within about an inch of Poupart’s ligament. In this situation the fascia splits into two portions, which leave between them an opening for the transmission of the superficial vessels. The saphena vein and superficial lymphatic vessels, after continuing their course through- out the whole extent of the lower extremity on the surface of the fascia, at length pass through this opening to communicate with the deep seated vessels. The fascia lata may in general terms be said to be united to the spine of the ilium, to Poupart’s liga- ment throughout its whole length, to the spine of the pubis, and to the linea innominata: it is more convenient, however, to ex- amine each portion separately. The outer or iliac portion, ascend- ing from the external surface of the thigh, is attached superiorly to the spine of the ilium, and to the whole length of Poupart’s liga- ment, and being continued in front of the femoral vessels, where