OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 35 Inguinal glands. also covered by the fascia lata. Between the fascia lata and fascia four inches in a perpendicular direction downwards ; the other commencing at the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and terminating at the upper extremity of the former. On dis- secting back the flap thus formed, you expose to view the fascia superficialis; which structure, after covering the abdominal muscles, descends over Poupart’s ligament to invest the muscles of the lower extremity. In the groin this fascia is stronger than where it covers the abdominal muscles, and may be divided into two layers, which are separated from each other by lymphatic glands, and the superficial inguinal blood-vessels. It is attached firmly to Poupart’s ligament, and also to the border of the saphe- nous opening of the fascia lata. The blood-vessels that are contained I between the layers of the superficial fascia, are the external pudic, the external epigastric, and external circumflex arteries, and some small veins ; these vessels exert an important influence on the course of femoral hernia, which, after it has passed through the saphenous opening, owing to the resistance afforded by these superficial blood-vessels, bulges forwards, inwards, and upwards. Dissecting off the superficial fascia, the boundaries of the in- guinal or superior crural region are now more accurately defined. The inguinal region is a triangular space, having its base placed superiorly, its apex inferiorly; it is bounded superiorly by Pou- part’s ligament, inferiorly by the approximation of the sartorius and adductor muscles ; on the outer side, which is round and very prominent, it is bounded by the sartorius, iliacus rectus, and other muscles, all covered by the fascia lata: and on the inner side, which is somewhat flattened, by the adductors and pectineus, superficialis, are situated about a dozen inguinal lymphatic glands, together with a variable portion of fatty matter, especially in fe- males, together with several small blood-vessels and the saphena vein. The glands may be divided into a superficial and deep set; the former are more numerous, and are arranged in two rows ; the superior row are four or five in number, and small, lying parallel Fascia super- ficialis. Boundaries of the inguinal region.