DISLOCATIONS OF THE OS HUMERI. 4121 teres major and minor, and infra-spinatus muscles; yet still the opposition to my efforts remained, and with but little apparent change. I then conceived that the deltoid must be the chief cause of my failure, and by elevating the arm, 1 relaxed this muscle ; but still could not reduce the dislocation. I next divided the deltoid muscle, and then found the supra-spinatus muscle my great opponent, until I drew the arm directly upwards, when the head of the bone glided into the glenoid cavity. The deltoid and supra-spinatus muscles, are those which most powerfully resist reduction in this accident. It appears from these dissections, that the best direction in w'hich the arm may be extended for reduction, is at a right angle with the body, or directly horizontally, rather than obliquely downwards : as the deltoid, supra and infra-spinati muscles, are, in this position of the limb, thrown into a relaxed state, and these muscles are, as I have explained, the principal sources of the resistance. The biceps is to be relaxed by slightly bending the elbow. The arm may be extended directly outwards, in the line between the pectoralis major on the outer side, and the latissimus dorsi and teres major on the inner; but if there be any deviation t from this line, it will be better rather to advance the arm, to l lessen the power of the pectoralis major. This dissection explains the reason why the arm is sometimes i easily reduced soon after the dislocation, by raising it suddenly above the horizontal line, and placing the fingers under the head ; of the bone, so as to raise it towards the glenoid cavity, which, as every tyro knows, will sometimes prove effectual; because, in this position, the muscles of opposition are relaxed so as to oppose no resistance to reduction. DISSECTION OF A DISLOCATION WHICH HAD BEEN LONG UNREDUCED. The head of the bone is found altered in its form; the surface Dissection of an towards the scapula being flattened, a complete capsular ligament oltI ll,slocatlon- icovers the head of the os humeri. The glenoid cavity is com- pletely filled by ligamentous matter, infused by a slow inflam- matory process; in this ligamentous matter arc suspended small