ON GRANULATION. 93 of the present surgeon of that name. Mr. Lucas ordered a solution of arsenic to be applied to the part. After it had been used for three days, the man complained of pain in the stomach, but this was not supposed to arise from the use of the solution. The appli- cation was continued ; the pain in the stomach became excessive; convulsive tremors of the muscles succeeded, and the patient died. I was quite sure that he died from the influence of arsenic in the system; and upon examination of the body after death, I found the stomach inflamed, and exhibiting the peculiar appearance which is produced by arsenic, and not by poisons generally. I believe, therefore, that this person died from the application of the arsenical solution. Quacks are in the habit of destroying tumours of the breast by Quacks, the use of arsenic. Women are sometimes, though very rarely, foolish; and they will undergo any torture which is not inflicted by a knife, rather than submit to an operation that would not give them a tenth part of the pain which they suffer from such applications. They go to a person who tells them of the number of cures he has performed by means of a specific used for the purpose of destroying scirrhous affections; and, indeed, these quacks very frequently destroy the scirrhous part, and the patient too. Mr. Pollard, a surgeon, told me, the other day, of a person in town, who applied an arsenical preparation for a scirrhous affection of the breast, in consequence of which the patient died in less than a week. I had myself occasion lately to perform an operation for a Case, scirrhous breast, to which arsenic had been applied. I asked the woman which gave her most pain, the application of the arsenical preparation or the operation. She replied, that the pain of the operation was not so great as that of the application, and that the arsenic had been applied ten or eleven times. The consequence of these applications is, that they become absorbed into the system, and produce derangement of the stomach, the intestinal canal, and the nervous system, and sometimes cause paralysis. ' Anecdote oi ft '< hile I am on this subject, I will mention a case to you which notorious quack near the Kent Road.