DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. 249 side of the external condyle of the os femoris; and a girl, in the same hospital, had the knee dislocated by ulceration, the head of the tibia being placed behind the condyles of the os femoris. Dislocations are sometimes accompanied with fracture. At ihe ancle-joint, it rarely happens that dislocation occurs without a fracture of the fibula; and at the hip-joint, the acetabulum is Occasionally broken. Dislocations of the os humeri, are also accompanied sometimes with fracture of the head of that bone ; of which there is a specimen in the Museum of St. Thomas’s Hospital. The co- ronoid process is occasionally broken in dislocations of the ulna, producing a species of luxation, which does not permit the bone to be afterwards preserved in its natural situation. When a bone is both broken and dislocated, it is proper to endeavour to reduce the dislocation without loss of time, taking care that the fractured part be strongly bandaged in splints, to prevent any injury to the muscles ; for if this be not done at first, it cannot be afterwards effected without danger of re-producing the fracture. If a compound fracture of the leg, and a dislocation of the shoulder happen in an individual at the same time, the reduction of the arm should be immediately undertaken, after the fractured limb has been secured in splints. The Rev. Mr. H , from the accident of being thrown from his chaise, had a compound fracture of the leg, and a dislocation of the shoulder forwards. The dis- location was not at first observed, nor was its reduction attempted till a fortnight had elapsed. The trial, however, proved unsuc- cessful ; for, from a dread of fever and injury to the leg, sufficient extension could not be used. The accidents which have been called dislocations of the spine, are generally fractures of the vertebrae, followed by displacement of the bones, but not of the intervertebral substance : even the articulatory processes are broken, as well as the bodies of the |vertebrae; so that they are not true dislocations of the spine, ex- Fractures and dislocations. Dislocation and fracture.