98 OF THE OPERATION FOR INGUINAL IIERNIA. Examination of omentum. Use of tlie liga- ture abandoned. Omentum mor- tified. Sloughing of Omentum. Case. diseased tlian the intestine, so much so that it becomes necessary to remove them, which I have had occasion to do. Having returned the intestine, the surgeon should carefully examine the omentum, and if it be not in a large quantity, or of an unhealthy appearance, it should be returned into the abdomen, with as gentle a pressure as possible. If a very large portion of omentum be protruded, a part should be removed, which may be done without any danger to the patient by means of the knife ; and, if any arteries sufficiently large to afford a troublesome haemor- rhage, are divided, they must be secured by fine ligatures; the di- vided surface should then be returned to the mouth of the sac, so as to form a plug, and the ligatures should remain hanging from the external wound. The old mode of applying a ligature around the protruded por- tion of the omentum to occasion it to slough off', is now, I believe, entirely abandoned; and it appears extraordinary that it should ever have been adopted, as it is the object of the operation to re- move the stricture, which would be thus immediately restored with increased severity. If the omentum be in a state of mortification, which may ge- nerally be known by its crispy feel, and the distension of its veins by coagulated blood ; or even if any suspicion arise of its being in an unsound state, it should be removed by excision at the sound part. In doing this, the strangulated portion should be drawn down a little, so as to expose some of the sound part, which should be held by an assistant to prevent its sudden retraction into the abdomen, while the surgeon cuts off the diseased part; and when this has been completed, any bleeding vessels should be secured as before directed. Should the omentum, in an unsound state, approaching to gangrene, be returned into the cavity of the abdomen, the danger of the patient will be much increased. I have, however, known a patient recover, in whom sloughing of the omentum took place after it had been returned into the cavity of the abdomen. This occurred in a man who had under- gone the operation for a strangulated hernia in Guy’s Hospital.