25 ON INFLAMMATION. occurs in persons who have lived intemperately, or in those who have been exposed to excessive and laborious exertion, or who are the victims of anxiety and disappointment. Acute Inflammation.—One of the best examples of acute in- Acute infiam- flammation is seen in the breast after delivery. The adhesive stage is marked by hardness and pain; the suppurative, by irritative fever, fluctuation and throbbing, or pulsation; ulceration usually succeeds in a short space of time, and the matter is soon dis- charged. Chronic Inflammation.—A good example of acute inflammation, Chronic in- terminating in chronic, is observable in ophthalmia. When con- sulted in cases of this description, during the acute stage of inflam- mation, you must bleed both locally and generally. This may be done either by opening a vein in the arm, by the application of leeches to the temples and palpebrae, or by opening the temporal artery,which sometimes relieves, from its free anastomoses with the ocular arteries. You should use such applications as will soothe and allay the local irritation, and these should consist of narcotic and emollient fomentations. When by these means the acute inflammation ends, the chronic frequently begins. In the first, our object is to diminish power; in the second, it is necessary to stimu- late the vessels, to contract their diameters, to lessen the quantity of blood which has accumulated in them, and thus restore them to their natural state. This is best effected by astringent and stimu- lating lotions, as the solutions of alum, sulphate of zinc, nitrate of silver; and as the system of depletion required during the acute stage may have produced debility, the use of tonics must not be forgotten. An instance of chronic inflammation succeeding the acute may be seen in gonorrhoea. During the first stages of this complaint, we are obliged to check the action of the vessels of the urethra, but afterwards to excite it by the balsam of copaiba, and slightly stimulating injections. Inflammation is of two kinds, either common or specific. Common or . . specific The first, with its terminations, has been already described, and inflammation.