OF THE RETE. 271 Each tubulus begins from one of the canals which form the rete; and, passing through a small hole in the mediastinum testis, it becomes excessively convoluted, and forms a conical or pyriform body, the basis of which is turned to the inner side of the tunica albuginea, and the convolutions are placed nearly at right angles with the long axis of the tubulus. Each tubulus may be unravelled, when it is found to be composed of a long, single, and convoluted vessel, the convolutions disposed nearly in parallel lines, and nearly transversely to the long axis of the lobe. With these tubuli, thrown into larger and smaller lobes, and supported by ligaments from the mediastinum, is the cavity' of the tunica albuginea filled. The blood-vessels distributed upon the lobes I are as follows:—First, the spermatic artery passes in two large branches on the opposite side of the testis to the epididymis; and between the outer and inner layer of the tunica albuginea, they ax-e i continued upon the inner coat towards the anterior and inferior edge of the testis. There they form an arch of communication, from which vessels pass upwards and backwards upon the membranes which cover the lobes of the tubuli; and when they have reached ! two-thirds of the way to the mediastinum, they divide into two branches, which turn back on each side towards the anterior edge, and supply the membrane abundantly with vessels. The smaller lobes receive a little vessel at each extremity. The principal branches of the spermatic veins enter the testis in a different manner to the arteries; a few pass on each side upon the surface of the lobes, but the greater number descend upon the mediastinum, and are continued upon the ligaments of the testis, between the larger lobes, to the anterior edge, where they become inverted, to be distributed upon the extremities of the larger lobes ; and they also meet some small veins which pass in at the anterior edge, and which are distributed upon the extremities of the lobes. OF THE RETE. By the term Rete, is meant a set of canals which receive the