457 FRACTURES OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. end of the bone, which do not appear capable of supporting the least attempt at ossific union ; nor is any change on the surface of the bone apparent. It will be proper, however, in this accident, to keep the arm steadily in the bent position for three weeks after the injury, and thus to make the ligamentous union as short as possible, by leaving the bone perfectly at rest. FRACTURE OF THE OLECRANON. This process of the ulna is not unfrequently broken off, and the accident is followed by symptoms which render the injury so evident, that the nature of the case can scarcely be mistaken. Pain is felt at the back of the elbow, and a soft swelling is soon produced there, through which the surgeon’s finger readily sinks into the joint; the olecranon can be felt in a detached piece, elevated sometimes to half an inch, and sometimes to two inches, above the portion of the ulna, from which it has been broken. This elevated portion of bone moves readily from side to side, but is with great difficulty drawn downwards ; if the arm be bent, the separation between the ulna and the olecranon becomes much greater. The patient has scarcely any power to extend the limb, and the attempt produces very considerable pain ; but he bends it with facility, and if the limb be undisturbed, it is prone to remain in the semiflexed position. For several days after the injury has been sustained, much swelling of the elbow is produced; there is an appearance of ecchymosis to a considerable extent, and an effusion of fluid ensues into the joint in a much larger quantity than is natural; but the extent to which these symptoms proceed, depends upon the violence which produced the accident. The rotation of the radius upon the ulna is still preserved. No crepitus is felt, unless the separation of the bone be extremely slight. DISSECTION OF THIS ACCIDENT. This fracture is usually found to have happened through the centre of the olecranon ; and it is most frequently in the transverse Symptoms of fracture of the olecranon. Appearances of the dissection of this accident.