PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. 272 Case. together ; his foot immediately became sensible, which it had not been before, since the accident, and he altogether felt easier. A large blister was applied over the trochanter, and he slept well in the night, and complained only of pain in the perineum and just above the knee, where the bandages had been applied; there was no subsequent fever, nor any unpleasant symptom whatever. In a few days the man could bear slight flexion and extension without pain, and in a week some degree of rotation; the limb became gradually stronger, and the power of motion so increased, that on the twelfth day he could by himself bring the thigh at right angles with the body. He was now taken out of bed ; bandages were applied round the thigh and pelvis ; and he could stand per- fectly upright, so as to walk with his heel on the ground with the assistance of crutches : and from exercise, he grew so rapidly stronger, that on the twenty-second day he left oft'one crutch, and on the twenty-fifth the other. In a month he was able to walk without a stick ; and in five weeks, having particular business, he walked nearly twenty miles, perfectly upright and W'ithout the least limping. S. Nott. Collumpton, Devon, Jan. 27, 1820. I attended the following case, which forms a striking contrast to the preceding, and to some of those hereafter related. I was desired to visit a man aged twenty-eight years, who, by the overturning of a coach, had dislocated his left hip more than five weeks before; and who had been declared not to have a dislocation, although the case was extremely well marked. His leg was full two inches shorter than the other ; his knee and foot were turned inwards ; and the inner side of the foot rested upon the metatarsal bones of the other leg. The thigh was slightly bent towards the abdomen, and the knee was advanced over the other thigh. The head of the thigh-bone could be distinctly felt upon the dorsum of the ilium: and when the two hips were compared, the natural roundness of the dislocated side had disappeared.