442 STRUCTURE OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. Diagnostic symptoms. Treatment. Bones. arm, unless by the aid of the other hand, without great pain. The tension which succeeded filled up the hollow which was at first produced by the fall of the deltoid muscle. When the head of the bone was fixed, the fractured extremity of the body of the humerus could be tilted under the deltoid muscle so as to be felt, and even seen, by raising the arm at the elbow. Crepitus could be perceived, not by rotating the arm, but by raising the bone and pushing it outwards. The cause of the fracture was a fall upon the shoulder into a saw-pit of the depth of eight feet. It is in old persons that this accident is most liable to be mis- taken for dislocation : for in them the flexibility of the joint is much diminished by it, and the changes of position of the bone are less easily produced. The best diagnostic marks are the following. Embrace the head of the os humeri with the fingers and fix it, then rotate the arm at the elbow, and it will be found that the head of the bone does not obey the rotatory motion, as it is separated from the body of the humerus by the fracture; which is, in this case, external to the capsular ligament. The reduced bone in these in- stances unites in from three to six weeks, according to the age of the patient. The treatment consists in applying a roller from the elbow to the shoulder-joint, in placing a splint on the inner and on the outer side of the arm, and in confining these by means of a roller. A cushion is then to be placed in the axilla, to throw out the head of the bone, and the arm is to be gently supported by a sling ; for if it be much raised, the bone will overlap, and the union will be deformed. STRUCTURE OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. This joint is composed of three bones—the lower extremity of the humerus, the upper part of the ulna, and the head of the radius. The extremity of the os humeri is expanded, and presents two lateral eminences, which are called its condyles, the internal of which is the most prominent; between these condyles the