266 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. Cause. for motion, yet the pain given under extremes of rotation, as well as of flexion and extension, are indications of difference which would strike the most careless observer. The consequences of a disease of this kind, when it has existed for a great length of time, are, ulceration of the ligaments, acetabulum, and head of the bone, which allow of such a change of situation of parts, as sometimes to give the limb the position of dislocation; but the history of the case at once explains to the medical attendant the nature of the disease. This dislocation may be caused by a fall when the knee and foot of the patient are turned inwards, or by a blow whilst the limb is in that position;—the head of the bone being thus displaced upwards, and turned backwards. In the reduction of this dislocation, the following plan is to be adopted: —let the patient lose from twelve to twenty ounces of blood, or even more if he be a very strong man ; then place him in a warm bath, at the heat of 100°, and gradually increase it to 110°, until he feels faint. During the time he is in the warm-bath, give him a grain of tartarized antimony every ten minutes, until he feels some nausea; then remove him from the bath, and put him in blankets ; he is then to be placed between two strong posts, about | ten feet asunder, in which two staples are fixed ; or rings may be screwed into the floor, and the patient be laid upon it. My usual method is, to place him on a table covered with a thick blanket upon his back ; then a strong girth is passed between his puden- dum and thigh, and this is fixed to one of the staples. A wetted linen roller is tightly applied just above the knee, and upon this a leathern strap is buckled, having two straps with rings at right angles with the circular part. The knee is to be slightly bent, but not quite at a right angle, and brought across the other thigh a little above the knee of that limb. The pulleys are fixed in the other staple, and in the straps above the knee. The patient being thus adjusted, the surgeon slightly draws the string of the pulley ; and when he sees that every part of the bandage is upon the stretch, and the patient begins to complain, he waits a little to