304 FRACTURES OF TIIE UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. Effects of ab- sorption and di minished arte- rial action. Age at which it occurs. growth. In the middle period of life the arteries and absorbents preserve an equilibrium of action, so that, with a due portion of exercise, the body remains stationary; whilst in old age the ba- lance is destroyed, because the arteries act less than the absorb- ents, and hence the person becomes diminished in weight; but more from a diminution of the arterial than from an increase of the absorbent action. This is well seen in the natural changes of the bones, their increase in youth, their bulk, weight, and little comparative change during the adult period, and the lightness and softness they acquire in the more advanced stages of life; hence the bones of old persons may be cut with a pen-knife, which is incapable of making any impression on those of adults. Even the neck of the thigh-bone in aged persons is sometimes undergoing an interstitial absorption, by which it becomes shortened, altered in its angle with the shaft of the bone, and so changed in its form as to give an idea, upon a superficial view, that it has been the sub- ject of fracture, thus leading persons into the erroneous suppo- sition, that the bone has been partially broken and reunited; but it requires very little knowledge of anatomy to distinguish, in the skeleton, the bone of advanced age from that of the middle period of life. The age at which fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone within the capsular ligament generally occur, is a most important con- sideration ; and as it is one on which the practice to be pursued by the surgeon very much depends, I shall take the liberty of making the following statement. I have been forty years at St. Thomas’s and Guy’s Hospitals; and, for thirty years, have had more than my share, and much more than I merited, of the practice of London. We have eight hundred and fifty patients in the two hospitals; and I believe that in the two hospitals, eight cases of fractures of the upper part of the thigh-bone occur in each year ; but in order to avoid exceeding the average number, I will consider them only as five per annum: thirty-nine multiplied by five, produce one hundred and ninety- five ; add to these one case only in each year, in my private prac-