2 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. Qualifications of a Surgeon. Gentleness of manner. Self-pos- session. would be effected in man ; the secretion of ossific matter by the blood-vessels being’ in each case precisely the same. In the practice of surgery, also, many essential qualities are requisite on the part of the surgeon. The first of which is neatness in the application of his remedies; awkwardness in this respect will frequently injure his professional prospects—the patient and his friends often judge of a man’s skill by his manner of bleeding, or from the application of a bandage; and it sometimes happens that “ the hand spoils the head.”* The next requisite is, gentleness of manner; patients having a natural dislike to operations, feel still more uneasy if they discover any thing in their practitioner’s behaviour which makes them ap- prehend rough treatment. Violence in all cases is bad, and is sometimes followed by fatal consequences. I was invited by a surgeon, some years since, to see a patient who had a compound dislocation of the ankle joint: there existed a considerable degree of pain and inflammation; the surgeon at once suddenly introduced a probe, raised some of the parts by it, and, his Latin being as bad as his surgery, said with the utmost coolness, Dedenda est Carthago, “Carthage must fall!” thereby implying that amputation must be performed; indeed, from the rough man- ner in which he treated his patient, there seemed no other chance for the poor fellow’s recovery. In this case, gentleness might have prevented the necessity for amputation. But the quality which is considered of the highest order in sur- gical operations, is self-possession; the head must always direct the hand, otherwise the operator is unfit to discover an effectual remedy for the unforeseen accidents which may occur in his prac- * Autem Chirurgus esse debet adolescens, aut certe adolescentiae propior; manu strenuS, stabili, nec unquam intremiscente; eaque non minus sinistra, quam dextra promptus; acie oculorum acri, claraque, animo intrepidus, miseri- cors sic, ut sanari velit eum quem accepit, non ut clamore ejus motus, vel magis, quam res desiderat, properet, vel minus quam necesse est secet; sed perinde faciat omnia, acsi nullus ex vagitibus alterius affectus oriatur. Cel. Lib. vii. Pref.