233 Off THE TYING Ol* ARTERIES. tumour increased, and became painful; she had a violent coug'h, great difficulty in swallowing, and a high degree of constitutional irritation. She gradually got worse, and died on the 21st. Inflammation of the aneurismal sac; having extended to the base Dissection, of the brain. Owing to the pressure of the tumour, the pharynx would scarcely admit a goose-quill. The cause of her death then, was the inflammation of the aneurismal sac and parts adjacent, pressing on the pharynx and deglutition, and upon the larynx, so as to excite coughing, and to impede respiration. The second case was that of John Humphreys, who had an ^a3e aneurismal tumour on the left side of the neck, about the size of a walnut, extending from the angle of the jaw to the thyroid carti- lage. The operation was performed in Guy’s Hospital, on the 22nd of June, 1808, in the same manner as in the preceding case, only that the artery was divided between the ligatures. The patient had scarcely one unfavourable symptom after the operation : the ligatures came away on the 15th of July. The wound closed slowly, and the man returned to his employment on the 14th of September. TYING THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. The middle of your incision should be opposite to the external The operation jugular vein, and centre of the clavicle. Speaking anatomically, the view of the parts exposed in this operation may be thus described (Sir Astley exhibited them): here you see the omo-hyoideus muscle i crossing obliquely above the clavicle, below the sterno-cleido-mas- toideus upon the inner side, and the jugular vein passing imme- diately opposite to the centre of the opening. Mr. Key informs me that in the operation which he performed at the other hospital, for securing this vessel, that it was much facilitated by a free division of the clavicular portion of the sterno-cleido- mastoideus, and that after having done so, he was enabled, with a common aneurismal needle, to introduce the ligature under the vessel. Soon after commencing this operation, you meet with