DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. 370 Treatment. Opening into the joint. Local effects. geon presses the tibia inwards towards the astragalus. The limb, in the simple dislocation, is to be laid upon its outer side, resting upon splints, with foot-pieces ; and a pad is to be placed upon the fibula, just above the outer ancle, and extending a few inches upwards, so as in some measure to raise that portion of the leg and support it; and to prevent the slipping of the tibia and fibula from the astragalus, as well as to lessen the pressure of the mal- leolus externus upon the integuments where they have sustained injury. The local and general treatment will be the same as in the former cases, although more depletion is required, as greater in- flammation succeeds; the greatest care is necessary to prevent the foot from being twisted inwards, or pointed downwards, as either position prevents the limb from being afterwards useful; and this precaution is effected by having two splints, with a foot-piece to each, padded and applied to the ancle on the outer side of the leg. Passive motion should be given to the joint in six weeks after the accident, when the patient may rise from his bed, and be allowed to walk upon crutches, unless impeded by great swelling of the ancle. In the generality of these cases, from ten to twelve weeks will elapse before the cure is complete. , COMPOUND DISLOCATION OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. These accidents take place in the same direction as the simple dislocations, and the bones and ligaments suffer in the same man- ner as in those dislocations. The difference, therefore, in these cases is, that the joint is laid open by a wound in the integuments and ligaments, opposite to the laceration of the skin, by which the synovia escapes, and through which the ends of the bone protrude; this opening in the integuments is generally occasioned by the bone, but sometimes by the pressure of some uneven surface on which the limb may have been thrown. The bones being replaced by the means which are employed in the simple dislocation, the effects of this accident upon the parts composing the joint, are as follow: The synovia, as I have stated,