OF amputation above tiif. knee. 487 The patient should be placed upon his back in bed, and the thigh Alter position, being flexed towards the abdomen, a pillow should be put under the ham, and the stump be allowed to hang over it. The limb should be inclined a little to the outer side. The objections to the operation with a single flap are, that the Objections to a wound does not unite so readily as that made by a circular incision; single tlaP- and if after-haemorrhage occurs, which renders it necessary to open the stump, there is a greater difficulty in securing the bleeding vessels; and in debilitated persons, the disturbance of the adhesions is likely to produce a slough of the flap. The anterior edge of the tibia being also more exposed, is more likely to exfoliate, and the subsequent contraction of the flap makes the union tedious. When, however, the integument upon the anterior part of the Sometimes leg has been destroyed, the formation of a single flap from the ne('L!,;,ai-v- posterior part becomes absolutely necessary. OF AMPUTATION ABOVE THE KNEE. A large amputating knife and a saw will be required. Instruments. The patient is to be placed upon a table on his back, and the Position, tourniquet is to be applied high enough upon the thigh to allotv of ample room for the retraction of the integument and muscles. One assistant supports the leg, and another draws up the Operation, integument on the upper part of the thigh. The surgeon first cuts through the integument surrounding the limb about one inch and a half above the patella, to avoid the bursa of the rectus, beginning on the superior part over the rectus, and passing the knife round with one sweep to terminate at the same point; he then dissects up the integument for about three inches, and this is kept reflected by an assistant whilst the superficial muscles are divided by another circular cut close to it; the assistant holding the integument, then draws it upwards to assist the retraction of these muscles, after which the deep-seated muscles and the periosteum are cut through so as to expose the bone, which is lastly to be sawn through.