300 OF THE FUNGOUS, MEDULLARY, Symptoms. Extension of the disease. OF THE MALIGNANT DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. The testicle is subject to two diseases of a malignant character: viz. the fungous and the scirrhus disease: of which the former is by far the most frequent. OF THE FUNGOUS, MEDULLARY, OR PULPY DISEASE OF THE TESTIS. Under these various names has this disease been described— fungous, because when it ulcerates, a large fungous projection forms it; medullary, because it has somewhat the appearance of the brain in a putrid state; pulpy, because it is soft, and easily breaks down to pressure. It has been often also called the soft cancer, on account of some resemblance it bears to cancerous affections, although its texture is of a much softer consistence. The symptoms of this complaint are as follow: It begins in an enlargement in the body of the testicle, which is, at first, accompanied with great hardness, and the form of the swelling is more globular than that of the testis in its natural state. The epididymis becomes soon affected after the disease has shewn itself in the testis; the enlargement proceeds generally rapidly, although, in some cases it varies in that respect. The pain which attends it, is at first only occasional, and not severe. Slight causes, as a catarrh, or more than usual exertion increase its size; but by rest, the enlargement subsides nearly to its former state: it soon becomes of the size of a small orange and of its globular shape: it feels very hard, but is free from tenderness when pressed; it at length forms adhesions to the surrounding parts, so that the scrotum, after a time, is only moveable over it at some points. It is, at first, regular on its surface; after a time, the cord enlarges above the abdominal ring, and at length it contracts adhesions to the pubis. At first the scrotum is not inflamed, although the vessels are somewhat larger. A gland or glands become enlarged in the groin, unattended with pain after the testis has adhered to the scrotum, and which gradually