459 FRACTURES OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. came ligamentous, and firmer and firmer, as the time was pro- tracted between the experiment and examination. As I found that ligament was formed in each of these experi- ments, I was anxious to learn whether the olecranon could be made to unite by bone, if a longitudinal fracture were produced with but slight obliquity, so that the broken portions might still remain in contact; and I found that, under these circumstances, the osseous union readily took place. Therefore, this bone, like the extremity of the os calcis when it is broken off, is detached by the action of muscles, and ligamentous union ensues from want of adaptation: but a different cause exists where bony union fails in fractured bones within joints, in the neck of the thigh-bone, in the coronoid process of the ulna, and in the extremity of the external condyle of the os humeri. In these injuries the want of union proceeds from the diminished support which the fractured parts receive; tlie little that exists being derived through the medium of blood- vessels intended for the nourishment of ligament. The preparations made from these experiments may be seen in the Museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital. I have also seen this bone in the living person united by an ossific process, when the fracture has happened very near to the shaft of the ulna. The ligamentous substance which generally forms the bond of union in these cases, is often incomplete; having an aperture, and sometimes several apertures in it, when it is of considerable length. The arm is weakened in proportion to the length of the ligament; for if this be very long, extension of the arm is rendered difficult, from the necessarily diminished power of the triceps muscle. The causes of this injury are, first, a fall upon the elbow when the joint is bent; and secondly, fracture by the action of the triceps muscle only, when a great and sudden exertion is made during the flexed position of the arm. The treatment of this accident is as follows, but it is to be modified according to the degree of injury. If there be much swelling and contusion, it is right to apply evaporating lotions and leeches for two or three days; and after the inflammation is re- union in frac- tured olecranon depending on adaptation. Causes of this injury. Treatment of fracture of the olecranon.