DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. 247 | neighbourhood, who had a great enlargement of the knee-joint from an inordinate secretion of synovia ; and when this became : absorbed, the ligaments remained so much relaxed, that the efforts of the muscles in walking dislocated the patella outwards. I ; ordered her into the hospital, that the students might observe this ! case, of which the following is an account. Ann Parish was admitted into Guy’s Hospital in the autumn of Cates of dislo- ] 1810, for a dislocation of the left patella from relaxation of the ^’!‘o^rom re" ! ligaments. She had for four years previously a large accumulation of synovia in that knee, causing some pain and much inconvenience in walking. Blisters had been applied without much effect, and other means tried for four months before her admission. When the knee had acquired considerable size, the swelling sjion- taneously subsided, and she then first discovered that the patella became dislocated when she extended the limb. She suffered some j pain whenever this happened, and she lost the power of the limb in ! walking, so that she fell when the patella slipped from its place, I which it did whenever she attempted to walk without a bandage. The patella was placed upon the external condyle of the os femoris, when thrown from its natural situation, to which it 1 did not return without considerable pressure of the hand. In ! other respects, her health was good. Straps of adhesive plaster were ordered to be applied, and a roller to be worn, which succeeded in preventing the dislocation so long as they were used; but the bone again slipped from its place whenever they were removed. A knee-cap, made to lace over the joint, was ordered for her. Dislocation sometimes arises from a loss of muscular power; lValysia. for when the muscles are kept long and forcibly extended, their tone becomes destroyed ; or if, from a paralytic affection, they lose their action, a bone may be dislocated easily, but it is as readily replaced: of the first of these two causes, the following case is an illustration. Mr. , a gentleman who had passed some of his early life in Case. I the East Indies, happened, as a junior officer on board his ship, to