472 DISLOCATIONS OF THE METACARPAL BONES. Amputation often necessary. Case. COMPOUND DISLOCATION OF T1IE CARPAL BONES. These accidents are of frequent occurrence, and they are gene- rally caused by guns bursting in the hand; portions of the instru- ment being forced through the carpus, and between the metacarpal hones. In these cases a carpal bone may be removed by dissection, and the patient may recover; not only saving his hand, but in a con- siderable degree, preserving its motions. When only one or two of the carpal bones are displaced by guns bursting in the hand, they may be dissected away; but if more considerable injury be done, amputation will be necessary. DISLOCATIONS OF THE METACARPAL BONES. These bones are so firmly articulated with the bones of the car- pus, that I have never seen them dislocated but by the bursting of guns, or by the passage of heavy laden carriages over the hand ; and in each of these cases there is generally so much injury pro- duced as to render amputation necessary. In the former of these accidents, a bone, and sometimes two, are capable of being re- moved ; and if it be necessary to amputate the middle and ring fingers, the fore and little fingers may be brought so nicely together, and secured in such exact adhesion, as to produce little deformity. I was called by Mr. Hood, surgeon at Vauxhall, to a Mr. Waddle, of Bow-lane, Cheapside; who, while shooting, had his gun burst, and his hand lacerated by a portion of the barrel passing through its centre. The metacarpal bones of the middle and ring fingers were fractured, and also much comminuted by the violence of the injury; but the integuments were only lacerated, and not completely removed. I dissected out the two fingers, with the metacarpal bones which supported them, and brought the edges of the skin together by suture, approximating the fore and little fingers, and applying a roller so as to bind them together; the parts united perfectly, and the maimed hand was afterwards ex- tremely useful to him; the case, indeed, is highly worthy of in- spection.