GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF HERNIA. Situations of the abdominal. Inguinal. Crural. Umbilical. Ventral. Thyroideal. Ischiatic. press the bowels, and thus have a tendency to force them from their natural situation. Thirdly: For the passage of vessels and nerves, these muscles and their tendons have various apertures which, though naturally only large enough for that purpose, often become so much relaxed as to allow the viscera themselves to protrude. Lastly : The muscles are sometimes imperfectly formed, and the viscera escape through unnatural apertures. The following are the situations in which abdominal herniae are found. First: It appears at the abdominal rings, generally passing in the same course with the spermatic cords in the male, and the round ligaments of the uterus in the female; thence it is continued down into the scrotum in the one sex, and the labium pudendi in the other. This hernia of the abdominal ring is known to surgeons under the various appellations of inguinal hernia, bubonocele, scrotal hernia, and oscheocele. Secondly: A hernia also penetrates under Poupart’s ligament, forming a tumour at the inner and upper part of the thigh. In this situation it is called femoral hernia, crural hernia, or merocele. Thirdly : Another species is formed at the navel by a protrusion through the opening which was formed in the foetus for the pas- sage of the umbilical cord. This has received the name of um- bilical hernia, or exomphalos. Fourthly : Similar protrusions take place through the tendinous covering of the anterior part of the abdomen. The linea alba and semilunaris are perforated to transmit vessels passing to the com- mon integuments: when these holes are either originally of an unusual size, or are enlarged during a relaxed state of body, hernia; will occasionally be formed in them, which are then called ventral. Fifthly: Another part, at which hernia sometimes appears, is the foramen ovale of the pelvis ; it then takes the name of the aperture, and is termed hernia foraminis ovalis, obturatoria, or hernia thyroidea. Sixthly : Sometimes, though rarely, a hernia is produced at the