72 STRANGULATED HERNIA. Strangulated hernia mostly fatal unless reduced. Strangulation terminating in sloughing. Cause of strangulation. be traced up with the knife about an inch and a half obliquely out- ward, the stricture will there be found, and when this is divided the intestine can be readily returned. Strangulated hernia is almost always fatal unless the tumour is reduced, but now and then an instance will occur of the parts sloughing off, and a fistulous opening remaining for life through which the feces are constantly escaping. This dreadful termina- tion of the disease leaves the patient constantly offensive, incapable of considerable exertion, and renders life itself a loathsome burden. In young persons, where the powers of life and reparation are vigorous, a hernia will sometimes slough and the aperture be closed by a natural process. Whenever any medical attendant is called to a person suffering under the symptoms which I have described above, he should carefully enquire whether his patient had any tumour descend during the day and return in the recum- bent posture during the night, in the groin or in any other known seat of hernia ; and he should not be content with mere enquiries, as persons are sometimes unconscious of this disease, and some- times unwilling to acknowledge it, but he should himself carefully examine the abdomen with his hand, to discover if possible any tu- mour to which these symptoms may be attributed. The cause of strangulation is the descent of an additional portion of intestine and omentum into the hernial sac; it might be thought that the mere protrusion of a greater length of a single fold of intestine would not increase the stricture at the narrow ring of compression; but the reason that it does so is, that a pro- portionally larger quantity of the mesentery descends along with the bowel, and thus increases the pressure made by the stricture upon the blood-vessels of the hernial contents. The same causes which produce hernia renders them strangu- lated ; such as distension of the abdominal viscera, exertion of the abdominal muscles, particularly in positions which compress the bowels on the upper part of the abdomen, and leave the lower part relaxed and the apertures unguarded ; violent exertions in cx-