236 OF SPRAINS. In healthy per- sons. Too early mo- tion. In unhealthy persons. Treatment of chronic stage. important disease originates, this more particularly in persons suf- fering from any constitutional disease, as in those affected with scrofula. In persons free from constitutional disease, these injuries, if not very extensive, are rapidly recovered from; the effusion quickly subsides, and the motions of the joint are restored; but in no case should the patient be allowed to exercise the part as usual, until all pain has ceased, and the part has nearly regained its original form. By a too early use of the part, the effects of the injury are kept up, so that weeks, months, or even years may elapse; and the pa- tient still suffer from them; whereas a little more attention to the disease in the first instance, would have completely removed all the suffering and danger. In persons suffering from constitutional disease, a chronic form of inflammation is often set up, which terminates in suppuration, and often affects the bones, which become carious, and make it ne- cessary for the surgeon to remove the diseased part by amputation, in order to save the patient’s life. Therefore, after the acute symptoms have been removed, be careful to get rid of all the effects of the injury before the patient be allowed to employ the limb as previous to the ac- cident. Rest, position, and the use of mild stimulants, with friction, and moderate pressure, are the best means of producing the desired effect. The liniment: ammoniae; liniment: hydrargyri; liniment: saponis, may either of them be rubbed over the affected part, night and morning, afterwards making pressure by the applica- tion of a roller; or the part may be enveloped in strips of one of the following plaisters :—empl: ammon :—empl: ammon: c hydrarg: empl: galbani, over which the roller should be placed. I have also known good effects produced from the pouring a continued stream of cold water on the part from a pump or large pitcher.