449 OF OVARIAN DROPSY. of considerable density, becomes thinned by a process of absorption, leading to a more distinct perception of the fluid. The fluid contained in an ovarian cyst varies much in appear- j^a^ure tlie ance, it being sometimes watery; sometimes serous, containing a large quantity of albumen; sometimes mucilaginous and tenacious, so as to be ropy, but yet coagulating little under the influence of heat. The colour also varies; sometimes being yellow like serum ; Its colour. I sometimes it is brown and frothy; three times I have seen it yellow like pus, and containing similar globules. One case with Mr. Simpson, surgeon, in Lime Street Square, in which a pailful of this fluid was drawn off; a second in a Miss Warner, of the Kent Road; and a third in a Mrs. R. of Chatham Place, whom I lately attended with Dr. Key. I have seen hydatids discharged with the fluid. Hydatids. The quantity of fluid accumulated in this disease is necessarily Quantity of . , . J fluid, i varying, but the proportion averages from twenty-five to thirty-two pints. The greatest increase of the ovarium which I have seen is in the collection of St. Thomas’s Hospital, in which the accumu- lation w'as ninety-seven pints. The least which I have removed has been sixteen pints. The following is the account upon a tomb-stone, near Dartford, Case. Kent, “ Here lies the body of Ann Mumford, daughter of John Mumford, Esq., of Sutton Place, in this parish. Her death was occasioned by a dropsy, for which, in the space of three years and ten months she was tapped one hundred and fifty-five times. She died the 14th of May, 1778, in the twenty-third year of her age, an example of patience, fortitude, and resignation.” This then is a proof of extent of the secretion, and of the neces- sity, in some cases, for the repetition of the operation. In the collection of St. Thomas’s Hospital there is a preparation Situation of showing the origin of this disease ; in one ovarium, bags are formed 1 6 CJst‘ within its tunica albuginea; on the other side, a cyst is produced externally to the ovarium, but pendulous from it; thus there are some cases of it internal and some external to the ovarium. 2 G