27 PARTS FORMING HERNIA. j saphenous opening of the fascia lata, that they are very liable to I be divided in the operation for inguinal and femoral hernia, as well | as in that of castration. The superficial fascia is to be completely raised by dividing it in like manner to the skin; but as it is desirable again to examine ; this part, it should not be cut away, but turned down towards the I groin. In raising the fascia it will be perceived that it is but loosely connected by lax cellular substance to the tendon of the ex- ternal oblique, excepting around the margins of the external ring and in the course of Poupart’s ligament, in which situations a firm connection is established by means of some processes of fascia. The surface of the external oblique muscle being thus exposed, Tendon of the it will be seen that it consists of an expanded sheet of tendon, external ob,ique’ which covers the whole anterior and lower part of the abdomen. The fibres which run obliquely downwards and forwards, begin to separate a short distance below the anterior spine of the ilium into two fasciculi, of which the upper passes to be inserted into the anterior and superior part of the pubic symphysis, and the lower into the tubercle of the pubis. The opening left between these two fasciculi is the external abdominal ring, and the fasciculi themselves are called the pillars or columns of the ring. The external ring is then nothing more than an opening in the External ring, tendon of the external oblique placed between the symphysis and tubercle of the pubis, which in the male transmits the sper- matic cord, and in the female the round ligament of the uterus. Its borders, formed of the above mentioned fasciculi, offer con- siderable resistance when an attempt is made to separate them, not only on account of their thickness, but in an especial manner in consequence of their being firmly united by a structure Intercolumnar • • • • ftlSCKU which is called the intercolumnar fascia. In order to strengthen the walls and to prevent the separation of the parallel fibres of the external oblique, it will be observed, that at the lower part of the abdomen additional tendinous fibres are provided, which pass across the former in a semicircular manner from above Poupart’s ligament towards the linea alba. Now where these fibres ap-