OF THE INCISED WOUND. 171 adhesive plaister. On taking off the dressings a few days after the operation, I found, that the portion which had been completely separated, and afterwards placed upon the stump, was firmly united and organized. The most extraordinary instance of the union of a separated part has been related by Dr. Balfour, in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, for October 1814, from which the following i account is taken : “ On the 10th of June last, two men came to my shop about Case, eleven o’clock in the forenoon ; one of whom, George Pedie, a house carpenter, had a handkerchief wrapped round his left hand, from which the blood was slowly dropping. Upon uncovering the hand, I found one-half of the index finger wanting. I asked him what had become of the amputated part. He told me that he had never looked after it, but believed that it would be found where the accident happened. I immediately dispatched his com- panion to look for it, and to bring it to me directly he found it. During his absence I examined the wound, which began near the upper end of the second phalanx on the thumb side, and termi- nated about the third phalanx on the other side. The wound, which had been inflicted with a hatchet, was quite clean. “ In about five minutes, the piece of the finger was brought: it was quite cold, and white in appearance, like a bit of a candle. I immediately exposed both surfaces to a stream of cold water, to wash the blood off the one, and any dirt that might adhere from the other. I then applied, with as much accuracy as possible, the wounded surfaces to each other, expressing a confident opinion, that reunion would take place. “ I endeavoured to inspire the patient with the same hopes, but he did not appear convinced of the possibility of such an occur- rence. I informed him, that unless pain, or fcetor, or both should occur, I would not remove the dressings for a week at least. I directed him to keep his arm in a sling, and not to attempt any kind of work ; to which he promised obedience. He called on me the next day, when he was quite easy, but the wound had bled