392 FRACTURES OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. throw further light upon the subject, will have the kindness to communicate them to me, whether they make for or against the advice that I have given, as I have no further wish but that all the points respecting this severe accident may be fully elucidated and established ; and shall only add, that the observations which I have made in favour of saving the limb in compound dislocations of the ancle-joint, will apply much more strongly in country practice than in that of the large hospitals in London. Case. Fracture of the fibula. The Ancle is sometimes dislocated by Ulceration. September 23d, 1823. With Mr. Dixon, surgeon, of Kennington, I visited Mr. P., a patient of his, who had a dislocation of the ancle produced by ulceration. An ulcer existed at the inner ancle, which had discharged synovia. The ancle-joint was red and greatly swollen, the foot drawn outwards by the action of muscles, and the internal malleolus thrown inwards upon the astragalus. The tibial arteries were greatly stretched; and the fibula, by its pressure on the malleolus externus, produced considerable and constant pain. Mr. P. is a very old man, and dying of the disease. FRACTURES OF THE TIBIA AND FIBULA NEAR THE ANCLE-JOINT. The fibula is frequently broken from two to three inches above the ancle joint, and the patient instantly becomes conscious of the accident by feeling a snap a little above the outer ancle ; by the pain which he suffers in his attempt to bear upon the foot; by his inability to place his foot flat upon the ground, resting it rather on the inner side to throw the bearing of the body upon the tibia ; and by pain and a sensation of motion at the injured part when the foot is bent or extended. The surgeon discovers the nature of the accident by rotating the foot with one hand, and by grasping the lower part of the leg with the other ; at each rotation a crepi- tus is generally felt. There is also frequently an inequality of the bone at the broken part, which assists in pointing out the nature of the injury. 1 : i \ .