277 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. ! dent:—About four months prior to this time, he drove his master’s horses to a chalk pit; he went down into the pit to pack the chalk, and to break it into small pieces; and while he was thus occupied the side of the pit gave way and a large piece of chalk striking him violently on the hip knocked him down. Being immediately taken to a neighbouring public-house, a surgeon was sent for. The thigh was discovered to be fractured near its middle, but very considerable contusions prevented the dislocation from being at first discovered. Fomentation and other means of reducing the swelling at the hip having been employed, it was ascertained that the thigh was also dislocated, and some attempts were made to re- duce it; but the fracture would not then bear the extension, and the boy was sent to the hospital. No attempt has since been made to reduce the bone. This case presented unusual difficulties; and the probability is, that dislocation thus complicated with fracture, will, generally, not admit of reduction; as extension cannot be made until three or four months have elapsed from the accident, and then only with strong splints upon the thigh, to prevent the risk of disuniting the fracture. DISLOCATION DOWNWARDS, OR INTO THE FORAMEN OVALE. The foramen ovale is formed by the junction of two bones—the Anatomy, schium and pubes: it is situated below the acetabulum, and is iomewhat near the axis of the body. It is filled by a ligament vhich proceeds from the edges of the foramen, and has an opening n its upper and anterior part, to permit the passage of the obtu- ator blood-vessels, and the obturator nerve. It is covered on its xternal and internal surface by the obturator externus and obtu- rator internus muscles. This dislocation happens when the thighs are widely separated Cause of acci rom each other. The ligamentum teres and the lower part of the dem' Iapsular ligament are torn through, and the head of the bone be- omes situated in the posterior and inner part of the thigh, upon le obturator externus muscle. It has been erroneously supposed, that the ligamentum teres is