38 TREATMENT OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. Another remedy. Case. - Chronic in- flammation i children. lie generally gets well. Yet this disease was formerly considered incurable. If the patient be a female, or of a delicate constitution, then two or three grains of calomel will be found sufficient; and when the mouth becomes decidedly affected, you will perceive an alteration in the appearance of the iris, when you should lessen your dose; a profuse salivation is not necessary, and, if long- continued, would aggravate rather than relieve the local disease. The most common medicine, and probably as a general one, the best that is administered in chronic inflammation, is Plummer's pill; it acts at one and the same time on the secretions of the liver, intestines, and skin; and if you can succeed in restoring these, the disease, if recent, will soon disappear: the absorbent vessels are roused into a state of increased activity, and the effects of the chronic inflammation are removed. Another excellent medicine for the cure of chronic complaints, is the oxymuriate of mercury, combined with the compound de- coction of sarsaparilla. In the hospitals we merely give it dissolved in rectified spirits of wine; about one-eighth of a grain, in half a pint of the decoction, to be taken in the course of a day; one-half in the morning, and the other in the evening; continue it as long as you think necessary, taking care to watch its effects on the gums ; always keeping in mind, that mercury given to excess will tend to increase, rather than destroy, constitutional irritation. As sarsaparilla seems to possess the power of lessening irritability, we frequently give it with mercury, in the way I have just mentioned; it is a medicine which has often a most extraordinary effect on opa- cities of the cornea, and may be prescribed, in even very bad cases, with the greatest prospect of success. A girl from Sheerness, was in Guy’s Hospital some time since, in whom the opacity was so great, that she was nearly blind ; quite so in one eye : the usual remedies employed in similar cases were tried, without obtaining the least benefit; she was then recommended the compound decoction of sarsaparilla, with the oxymuriate of mercury, and in a short time she recovered her sight. The best alterative for the removal of chronic disorders in chil-