2 n 2 CANCF.R LA [ill. 4(>' more upon the red part of the lip than upon the surrounding skin, though ultimately the latter becomes affected. It is very little tender to the touch, so that the patient handles it with great freedom; but it is occasionally accompanied with darting pains. When it begins as an ulcerated fissure in the lip, the surrounding At first begins ■ . "'as a fissure, part is hard, an incrustation is afterwards produced, and ultimately the disease has very much the same appearance as when it begins as a wart. It gradually ulcerates the skin towards the chin, and although beginning in a small spot, at length involves the whole lip. The character of the sore is that of a cancerous ulcer, its edges Character of being everted, and its surface hard; a gland under the jaw next becomes affected between the symphysis and angle, and sometimes the glands on both sides: the gland is hard and at first not painful, then the surface assumes a livid appearance and becomes occasionally acutely painful; at length it ulcerates, discharges a bloody serum, bleeds frequently, the edges of the ulcer are everted, the ulceration becomes extensive, and the surface of the sore very irregular; several other glands in the neck become affected, difficulty of breathing and of deglutition ensue, and the patient falls a victim to the disease after a long period of suffering. Some persons deny that the character of this sore is cancerous, Its cancerous but upon what principle I cannot understand, for it is unequal upon cliara< u ,b its surface, it has irregular, callous, and everted edges, it is accompanied with lancinating pains, it extends its influence to the neighbouring absorbent glands, and when a section -is made of it, after its removal, its internal appearance is truly scirrhous. I have seen at least two hundred cases of this disease in the Rare in the under lip, and have only witnessed one in the upper. It is a very uppu‘ hp‘ Or in the rare disease in the female; it is a complaint of age more than of female, youth, occurring most frequently from fifty to seventy years. A great many of the persons in whom I have seen this disease Supposed have attributed it to the custom of smoking’, believing that the cau't' tobacco pipe was instrumental in its production; but I have frequently seen it in persons in whom it could not be attributed to