FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART OF TI1F. THIGH-BONE. 319 count of an experiment which lie made upon the same subject, which fully confirms my observations. “ Dear Sir :—The circumstances of the experiment which I men- tioned, were briefly these,—The tibia of a guinea-pig was broken at the lower end. A month afterwards the animal was killed. On dissection, I found a fracture extending across the tibia, trans- versely, and so close to the ancle-joint, that it was situated at that part of the bone which is covered by the reflected layer of the isynovial membrane. The synovial membrane itself, and the liga- ments of the joint, appeared to have been very little injured, and the broken surfaces had remained in good apposition ; neverthe- less, there was not the smallest union of them, either by bone or ligament, and there had been no formation of callus round the fracture. The bone in the neighbourhood of the fracture had be- come compact and hard, in consequence of the ossification of the medullary membrane lining the cancelli.” Professor Burns, of Glasgow, has had the great kindness to send me the following observations. “ Permit me to offer my warmest thanks for the pleasure and edifi- Iiation I have received from the study of your late work. I was ?arly led to attend to the process adopted by nature in forming a lew articulation in injuries to the hip-joint, by the dissection of a log which 1 had when a boy, and which had the hip fractured. Many years afterwards I examined the parts, and found the frag- nent of the cervix belonging to the head absorbed, the head itself illing the acetabulum ; the shaft of the bone expanded; a new uead formed for a new socket, and the whole enveloped in a dense :apsule or covering. “ In a fracture of the os femoris external to the capsule, the jluteus medius and minimus seem to act as a cushion to stop the iscent of the end of the cervix, whilst the fragment attached to its uead will, perhaps, afford some opposition; but in the fracture ivithin the capsule, the end of the cervix is drawn more freely up inder the gluteus medius, and lodged behind the inferior spinous lirocess of the ilium.