OF THE OPERATION. •377 The gorget may be considered as the dividor of the prostate gland The gorget. and it also serves as a director to the forceps. It was formerly The blunt gorget. used with a blunt edge, so that it acted as a wedge: when so formed and employed, the scalpel should be carried along the groove of the staff, so as to divide the prostate gland laterally, after the urethra has been opened, which allows the blunt gorget to enter the bladder with comparative facility. The operation performed with this instrument is attended with very little bleeding, and has been very successful in its issue. Hawkins had one of the edges of the blunt gorget made to cut. Cutting sorest. Mr. Cline made the greatest improvement upon the cutting gorget, in having the left side entirely removed, leaving only the beak and its right blade, which had a sharp anterior edge: this instrument enters with ease. It should be introduced horizontally, for there is i considerable haemorrhage if it be introduced obliquely, as it then opens a plexus of vessels surrounding the prostate, and which is j continued to the vesiculae seminales, and terminates in the internal i iliac veins. It is quite contrary to my experience to say, that persons do not Ha-morrhage. die of haemorrhage after this operation, for I have known many instances of it; four in particular, in which death was the imme- diate consequence of bleeding, suffered to continue for several hours; and several I have known die from gangrene of the scrotum occurring after severe haemorrhage. The patient should never be left until the bleeding has ceased; and, if it be very considerable, the surgeon should place his finger within the wound and compress the bleeding vessel; but he should be careful not to quit his patient whilst any haemorrhage remains. ' It is best to use a small cutting gorget, as it lessens the danger of wounding- blood-vessels; and then, if necessary, on account of the size of the stone, to dilate the wound, do it with the blunt I gorget. The beak of the cutting gorget is passed into the groove of the M ( f stall’, where it has been previously opened at the membranous part, passing the and the instrument is then pushed along the groove into the bladder, gnigct-