'ix: PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. the bone could not have been returned into it. The capsular ligament is torn from its connection with the acetabulum, at its anterior and posterior junction, but not at its superior and inferior. The ligamentum teres is broken, and an inch of it still adheres to the head of the bone. The head of the bone rests behind the acetabulum on the pyriformis muscle, at the edge of the notch, above the sacro-sciatic ligaments. The muscle on which it rests is diminished, but there has been no attempt made to form a new bony socket for the head of the os femoris. Around the head of the thigh-bone a new capsular ligament is formed; it does not adhere to the articulatory cartilage of the ball I of the bone which it surrounds, but could, when opened, be turned back to the neck of the thigh-bone, so as to leave its head com- pletely exposed. Within this new capsular ligament, which is formed of the surrounding cellular membrane, the broken liga- mentum teres is found. The trochanter major is placed rather behind the acetabulum, but inclined towards it relatively to the head of the bone. In this specimen, from the appearance of the parts, the disloca- tion must have existed many years ; the adhesions were too strong |to have admitted of any reduction, and if reduced, the bone could not have remained in its original socket. This species of dislocation is produced by the application of force, when the body is bent forward upon the thigh, or when the thigh is bent at right angles with the abdomen ; in which positions, if the knee be pressed inward, the head of the bone is thrown be- hind the acetabulum. The reduction of the dislocation into the ischiatic notch, is, in general, extremely difficult, and is best effected in the following nanner :—The patient should be laid on a table upon his side, and i girth should be placed between the pudendum and the inner >art of the thigh, to fix the pelvis : then a wetted roller is to be ipplied around the knee, and the leathern strap over it. A napkin s to be carried under the upper part of the thigh. The thigh- bone is then to be brought across the middle of the other thigh, C ause.