Dislocation downwards. In four direc- tions. Internal. 1 I 340 DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. the patella retains its motion. During the time the bandage is worn, the patient is to preserve the sitting posture, in order to relax the rectus muscle and to prevent its action upon the patella. With very great attention the union becomes perfect; for so it happened in a case which I saw with Mr. Burrowes, in Bishops- gate-street, who paid great attention to the case, that the patient recovered without any diminution of the natural powers of the part; the patella being gradually forced down until the ends of the ligament had approximated and coalesced. With respect to dislocations of the patella downwards, at which some surgeons have hinted, I have seen no injury which deserved such a title, if I except a rupture of the tendon of the rectus, which I have twice witnessed, and which destroyed the attachment of that muscle to the patella. The appearance of this injury wa> a soft swelling above the patella, upon which, when the hand wa placed, it sunk into the joint; the patella fell loose between thi condyles of the os femoris and the head of the tibia, but it stil retained very much its usual situation, and could not be said to b< luxated, as it was not displaced from the joint. The treatmen which this accident requires, is that the patient be obliged to pre serve the sitting posture during the cure: and that a cushion hi, applied upon the ligamentum patellae, which is to be confined by ; roller passed around the head of the tibia. dislocation of tile tibia at the knee-joint. These dislocations occur in four different directions; but two o them are incomplete, and lateral, while the others are perfect lux ations, the tibia being thrown either backwards or forwards. The lateral dislocations are but rare. In the dislocation inward the tibia is thrown from its situation, so that the condyle of the o femoris rests upon external semilunar cartilage, and the tibi projects on the inner side of the joint, so as at once to disclose th nature of the injury. The first case of this kind which I eve witnessed was brought to St. Thomas’s Hospital whilst I was a apprentice there, and I remember being struck with three circim