282 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. Case. DISLOCATION OF THE RIGHT FEMUR DOWNWARDS, OR INTO THE FORAMEN OVALE. Mr. Thomas Clarke, a farmer, about fifty years of age, was driving home in his cart from market, when the horse took fright and ran away with him. The following is the account he gives of the manner in which the accident happened:—In his endeavour to stop the horse, he fell over the front of the cart on his face, and the knee struck against some part of it in the act of falling, by which means the thighs were separated; the wheel, he also states, passed over his hip *. My friend, Mr. Potter, of Ongar, in Essex, whose ability as a surgeon in that neighbourhood is justly appreciated, was consulted in this case, between tvVo and three weeks after the accident hap- pened. The nature of the accident was extremely evident: the limb was full three inches longer than the other, the body bent forwards, the knees separated, and the foot rather inclined out- wards ; these were the leading diagnostic marks. Mr. Potter, having clearly ascertained the position of the dislocated limb, I accompanied him the following morning, in order to assist in the reduction; and the following were the means employed. Our first object was to produce relaxation ; and finding the pa- , tient was sufficiently strong to bear the plan usually recommended in cases of dislocation, where much resistance is expected, we drew away some blood from the arm; this, however, was not suf- ficient for our purpose, and a solution of tartar emetic, which we had brought with us, was administered. The patient was laid upon his side, close to the edge of the bed, (that being the most convenient place,) a girth was passed round the pelvis, and carried through the frame of the bedstead, which completely prevented the possibility of the body moving whilst extension was going on; a second girth was applied between the thighs, fixed to the one above, to which the pulleys were attached. Whilst extension was making, Mr. Potter took hold of the limb at the knee, and drew it * Query Was this, or the extended state of the limbs, the cause ot the dislocation ?