132 ON GANGRENE. Reed’s Sy- ringe. Case. Case. by anastomosis. It does now and then happen, that a blood-vessel will arise from the artery just above the ligature, and pass into the artery immediately below the ligature; by which means the circu- lation is produced. There is a beautiful specimen in the collection, where the brachial artery had been tied, and the blood was conveyed by a vessel not more than three inches in length, from the part just above to the part just below the ligature. This now and then occurs after the operation for aneurism, anastomosis happening where it is not usually found, from a short vessel running from one portion of the artery to the other. The other subject to which I mean to call your attention, is the experiment which I made on an animal last Friday, in the other hospital. This experiment, gentlemen, delighted me; I do not know that I have ever experienced greater pleasure in my life than I felt in going home from the hospital on that day. With respect to antidotes against the effects of poison, it is well known that they are, in a great degree useless. It is impossible, for instance, to get rid of arsenic from the stomach by any remedy that can be adminis- tered. It is doubtful whether any man ever recovered from the effects of that poison by means of an antidote. So with respect to opium ; when it is taken into the stomach in such large quantities that vomiting cannot be excited, the patient cannot be relieved by the exhibition of medicine ; for where is the antidote against the effects of opium ? A few weeks ago, a nurse in this hospital died in consequence of having swallowed opium. No relief was exhibited to her; but can it be said, after what we saw on Friday, that no relief could have been administered to her ? A short time since, a patient died in the other hospital, under similar circumstances ; the quantity of opium taken being so large, that vomiting could not be excited by any means which were employed. I was myself, on one occasion, called to a young lady, who had taken two ounces of the tincture of opium. It was ten o’clock in the morning when I first saw her ; she was then comatose. I tried to excite vomiting by the sulphate of copper, giving it in as large doses