ON INFLAMMATION. 19 The influence of the mind on some of the functions of the body is Influence of . - . i-i the mind, well known, and requires the greatest care on the partot the medical attendant. It is the surgeon’s duty to tranquillize the patient, to beget cheerfulness, and impart confidence of recovery. Therefore it is your duty to support hope, to preserve tranquillity, and to inspire cheerfulness, even when you are still doubtful of the issue. INFLAMMATION. Inflammation is the means by which local injuries are repaired, Restorative .... principle. and it may be therefore considered as the restorative principle. There are four signs that commonly attend it, viz., redness, pain, increased heat, and swelling. First. Redness. This arises from an increase of the red par- Redness, tides of blood in the part, and may be distinctly seen when the inflammation is superficial, as in inflammation of the conjunctiva of the eye ; and that it is the result of a dilated state of the vessels, is readily ascertained by injecting parts, in which the vessels are naturally of small dimensions ; as for example, by the injecting an inflamed peritoneum, pleura, or tendon, which is a part naturally possessing but little vascularity. Secondly. Increased Sensibility, which is owing to distension of Sensibility, the nerves by the greater quantity of blood determined to them. Parts naturally little sensible are quite the reverse when in a state of inflammation. I was called a short time since to a case where it was requisite to saw off a small piece of the tibia. During the operation I opened a cavity in which was a small piece of bone embedded in granulations; the latter were extremely sensitive: extract of belladonna was applied, which gave instant ease. Bones, though nearly destitute of sensation in their healthy state, are sometimes extremely sensitive when inflamed. Not only is the sensibility of a part increased by inflammation, but its irritability is exceedingly augmented by inflammation. If an hydrocele be in- jected when inflamed, it suppurates instead of adhering; and if amputation be performed through an inflamed part, the stump scarcely ever unites by the adhesive process, but passes into a c 2