13 ANATOMY OF HERNIA. {The tendons that close the opening, are those of the internal ob- ilique and transversalis muscles. Behind the tendon of the external oblique, the lower fibres of Internal oblique, ithe obliquus internus take their course; those from the spine of the ilium horizontally towards the linea semilunaris and alba, while jthose which arise from the outer half of Poupart’s ligament are passing obliquely towards the pubes. The lower fibres, after passing over the spermatic cord, terminate in a tendon, which is linserted into the symphysis pubis. If the finger be passed through the ring, this tendon may be felt immediately above it, and towards its inner side. The lower portion of the transversalis runs nearly parallel to the former, but arises only from one third of Poupart’s ligament; passing underneath, and concealed by the internal oblique, the fibres also cross the spermatic cord, and end in a tendon, which is connected with that of the latter muscle, and is inserted into the linea alba and pubes. But the tendon of the transversalis de- Transversalis. scends much lower than that of the internal oblique; and towards the pubes and Gimbernat’s ligament, forms a semilunar expansion, which is connected with a fascia presently to be described; it is more particularly by the union of these that the abdominal ring is closed behind. See Plate II. The foregoing description will shew that there is no natural aperture into the abdomen behind the ring; and therefore the opening, by which the spermatic vessels quit the abdomen, must be sought for elsewhere. It will be found one inch and a half above, and to the outer side of the abdominal ring, in a line passing from the ring to the superior spinous process of the ilium. This line marks the course of the spermatic cord; and the opening, which allows its immediate exit from the abdomen, is formed in a fascia, to understand the nature of which, Poupart’s ligament and its fasciae must be more particularly described. Poupart’s ligament, or, as it is now commonly called, the crural arch, is a rounded band of tendon connected to the superior spinous process of the ilium, whence it passes down in a vaulted