3G1 FRACTURES OF THE KNEE. oblique through the shaft of the bone ; and hence the pointed ap- pearance of the extremity of the fracture, and the difficulty of keeping the bones in apposition. A body was brought into the dissecting-room at St. Thomas’s Case- Hospital, which fell to the lot of Mr. Patey, surgeon, of Dorset- street, Portman-square, to dissect; and he kindly permitted me to make a drawing of the limb. It appeared, upon view of the thigh, that the limb had been broken just above the knee-joint, and that the shaft of the bone projected as far as the skin, just above the patella; the union was firm, but the magnitude of the bone was exceedingly increased. When the integuments were removed, the end of the superior portion of the shaft of the bone was found I to have pierced the rectus muscle, through which it still continued to project; and behind this projecting portion of bone the rectus muscle was situated, which passed to the patella. This portion of I the rectus muscle attached to the patella, was stopped in its action by the projection of the fracture, so that its movement upwards was exceedingly limited. The condyles of the os femoris, and the lower portion of the bone, had been drawn by the action of the muscles behind the end of the fracture of the upper portion, and had united by a very firm callus to the body of the bone. This union had necessarily produced a great diminution in the power of extending the limb; for the rectus muscle was really hooked down by the fractured extremity of the bone; but even if the bone had not pierced the muscle, still the elevation of the patella would have been prevented, by that bone being drawn against the fractured end of the thigh-bone in the contraction of the muscle. It appears, then, that in the treatment of this case a most firm and continued extension must be supported to prevent the retraction which would otherwise ensue; the cases which I have seen justify me in saying that this defective union is with great difficulty prevented; as the ordinary extent of flexion in the joint I is not to be expected.