94 OF THE OPERATION FOR Treatment when sloughing takes place. Intestine some- times ruptured by violence. Application of a ligature. Appearance of cavity of the abdomen with little or no effort on the part of the surgeon, which dooms the patient to a speedy death. Some- times the integuments slough and ulcerate, the intestines give way, and the fecal contents escaping from the opening, the symp- toms of strangulation cease. An artificial anus thus becomes sometimes established, through which, frequently during the re- mainder of the patient’s miserable existence, the feces are dis- charged. With respect to the treatment that is required for these cases of sloughing hernia, I believe that very little more can be done than to hasten the process of separation by fomentation and poultices, and to support the strength of the patient by generous diet and tonic medicines; and, that any attempt to lead the feces into their natural passage before the sloughing process is completed, will only irritate the parts, interfere with the regular process of sepa- ration, and endanger the life of the patient. So much violence, is not unfrequently used, in the attempts to reduce the hernia, that the coats of the intestine give way under the taxis, and the operator, on opening the sac, discovers an aper- ture, from which fecal matter issues. A small wound may be inflicted upon the gut, by the knife of the operator, from want of ; caution in dividing the stricture, or from neglect of the advice which I have given, namely, to bring the stricture into view, by drawing the sac gently down while the abdominal muscles are held up by an assistant. When this accident occurs, and the aper- ture in the gut is very small, the surgeon is to employ a different mode of treatment from that required for gangrened intestine ; the indiscriminate use of one kind of treatment would subject the pa- tient in the present case to the risk of a fecal fistula, which by the following expedient, may be altogether avoided. The aperture, with a small portion of the surrounding gut, should be pinched up with a pair of forceps, and a fine silk ligature being passed around it, should be secured so as to include the ruptured spot; the intes- tine should then be returned to the mouth of the sac. It will sometimes happen that the intestine may appear, during