ON ULCERS. 115 even lint cannot be lodged on its surface without producing great increase of inflammation and pain: in such cases what I do is this: —with a pair of scissors I slit up the nail on that side where the disease exists, and then with a pair of forceps turn back and com- pletely remove the divided portion. This is a very painful operation certainly, but I have known persons get well by this treatment in ten days, where the complaint had, for months, resisted every other. The applications to be used after the operation are of little import- ance ; poultices are the best, and these will be required but for a very limited period ; for the irritating cause having been removed, the fungus will soon disappear. The next best plan to be adopted, for curing these cases, is the By blister, application of a blister; this brings away the cuticle, and often the nail along with it. The most lenient method is the one first men- tioned, viz. the introduction of a piece of lint. Mr. Hunter, in alluding to this disease, said that the parts were not in a state of harmony. This is very true, and a very proper expression; he also applied it to those cases where a disease in the gland producing the nail, causes the nail to turn black; such affections are not un- common, and are often thought to be syphilitic, and I have frequently known persons salivated in consequence. This opinion, however, is perfectly erroneous. You must wash the sore with liq. calcis and calomel, and administer the pil. hydr. submur. comp, and decoct, sarsae. Sometimes, in these causes, we are obliged to dissect out the Entire gland that produces the nail; and though the operation is a most painful one for the patient, yet we are, for the purpose of affording permanent relief, compelled to perform it. Whitlow, what is it ? Why, an exceedingly painful swelling, Whitlow, terminating in an abscess by the side of a nail. The principle is this: the matter forms at first under the nail, but, being unable to force its way through that horny substance, burrows under it, thus producing excessive pain and irritation. Fungous excrescences often arise in these cases, which induce the surgeon to apply caustic; this practice is worse than useless. You should, after fomenting i 2