401 DISLOCATIONS OK THE LOWER JAW. may also still be produced, but to an inconsiderable extent. Thus the appearance of the patient is that of a continued yawning The cheeks are projected by the advance of the coronoid processes towards the buccinator muscle, and there is a depression just anterior to the meatus auditorius, from the absence of the con- dyloid process from its cavity. The saliva is not retained in the mouth, but dribbles over the chin; and a very considerable in- crease of this secretion follows, in consequence of the irritation of the parotid glands. The pain accompanying the accident is severe, but I have never seen any dangerous effect produced by it: on the contrary, the jaw becomes nearly closed by time, and a considerable degree of motion of the jaw is recovered. This accident may be caused by taking into the mouth too Causes, large a body : as I have known when two boys in play, struggling for an apple, one has forced it into his mouth and dislocated his jaw. A blow upon the chin, when the mouth is widely opened, produces the same effect. Yawning very deeply is also a frequent cause of the accident. A sudden spasmodic action of the muscles will also produce this dislocation when the mouth is opened; and it has often happened in attempts to extract the teeth, where the mouth has been opened too widely. Mr. Fox, dentist, whose death we have to deplore as a man of science, informed me that he wras called to a lady who had a tooth which required to be extracted, and that in the attempt to do so, a sudden spasm dislocated the jaw. In this accident, the jaw must be immediately restored to its situation; and the mode of reduction I shall explain by the fol- lowing case. A madman, confined in one of the houses in Hoxton, during an Case, attempt to give him some food, which the keeper was obliged to force him to receive, had his jaw dislocated. Mr. Weston, sur- geon of Shoreditch, was sent for; who, finding the man very powerful and very unmanageable, preferred rather to send for some other surgeon, to consider with him the best mode of making the D D VOL. II.