208 ON THE FORMATION OF ANEURISMS. aneurisms do occur in females, they are generally internal. Females are rarely the subjects of aneurism in the limbs; the reason of which is, that they do not exert them so much as the other sex. In the course of my practice, taking hospital and private practice together, I have seen about eight cases of popliteal aneurisms in the female. The number of popliteal aneurisms which I have seen in the male is of course very considerable. ON THE FORMATION OF ANEURISMS. How produced. It is necessary that you should clearly understand the manner in which aneurism is produced. The first circumstance that takes place in an artery which is about to produce an aneurismal swelling is, that it becomes opaque, and slightly inflamed. A small yellow spot appears in the part where the aneurism is afterwards formed, and there is a slight efflorescence surrounding it. The process of absorption afterwards takes place, and thins the coat of the artery, so that the texture becomes like that of a fine web. At the same time that this takes place, nature begins to set up a process of defence, which is beautifully exemplified in a preparation (it was exhibited to the class) made from the first aneurism which I had an opportunity of dissecting. This was an incipient aneurism of the aorta; you perceive that the coat of the artery has been absorbed, and opposite to the parts absorbed you observe a layer of adhesive matter, by means of which a defence is set up for the coat of the artery, and the progress of the disease for a time resisted. A covering is thus produced by the adhesive inflammation which shuts up the artery, so as to prevent the immediate escape of the blood. This preparation not only beautifully illustrates this process, but, by holding a candle on the opposite side of it, you will also observe the opacity which I have just described. As the coat of the artery becomes absorbed, the cellular membrane is glued by this matter to the outer surface of the artery. The next substance which becomes absorbed, if it be an aneurism of the ascending aorta, is the pleura, which forms a portion of the aneurismal bag. Then the lungs