91 ON GRANULATION. But if the union by adhesion does not take place, then granu- Granulations lations are formed in the following manner:—When fibrin is poured out, the vessels shoot up to its surface, permeate the newly- formed substance, and terminate by open mouths on the surface of the layer. This layer becomes the means of filling up a portion of the cavity; it is soon succeeded by another; the vessels become elongated, effuse matter on the surface, and shoot up as before, to the second layer of fibrin. In this manner one layer after another is formed, until the cavity of the wound is entirely filled. The vessels shooting into granulations are veiy numerous ; they Their vascu- are principally arteries. If you inject an ulcer of the leg, the larity- great degree of vascularity in the granulating surfaces is accounted for by the number of vessels divided into radiated branches, which we see entering the granulations, and producing the arborescent appearance which is observed in them. In examining the structure of granulations, they appear to become vascular in the following manner:—An artery enters at the base of the granulation, and is then divided into radiated branches; from these vessels pus is secreted, and an incrustation is formed, producing a layer of adhesive matter on the surface of the granulations. This is a little difficult to conceive ; it is a circumstance which, Experiment. I believe, has never been observed, and which I learned in the following manner: I took a portion of injected ulcer from the arm, and threw it into alcohol, in order to observe its vascularity. After it was thrown into the alcohol it was so opaque on the surface that no blood-vessels could be seen. It is the fibrous matter, therefore, covering the surface of the granulations which receives the blood- vessels. In this view a granulation may be considered as a gland, and the surface of an ulcer merely as a glandular surface. Now a gland is a. part of the body in which a secretion from the extremi- ties of the arteries takes place, and the blood which is not employed in the secretion is returned to the heart, by means of the veins which accompany the arteries. So in granulations, the arteries throw a quantity of blood near the surface of the wound, and there secrete pus. There is a vein accompanying each arterv, and the