DISLOCATIONS OP TIIE ANCLE-JOINT. 364 Peculiar liga- ments. Directions of dislocations. Dislocation in- wards. Symptoms. Dissection. unites the tibia to the fibula, but without any intervening articular cavity, as the ligament proceeds directly from one surface of bone and is received into the other. The peculiar ligaments joining the tibia and fibula to the tarsus, consist of a deltoid ligament, which proceeds from the tibia to the astragalus, os calcis, and os naviculare. The fibula is united at its lower end by three excessively strong ligaments; one anteriorly from the malleolus externus to the astragalus, one inferiorly to the os calcis, and a third to the astragalus posteriorly: and it is the strong union of this bone which leads to its being more frequently fractured than dislocated. And even when the tibia is luxated, the fibula is fractured in two of the species of dislocation of the ancle, and generally in all; but when the tibia is thrown outwards, I have known the fibula escape a fracture. I have seen the tibia dislocated at the ancle in three different directions : inwards, forwards, and outwards; and a fourth species of dislocation is said sometimes to occur, viz., backwards: the foot has also been known to be thrown upwards between the tibia and fibula, by the giving way of the ligament which unites these bones; but this accident is only an aggravated state of the internal dislocation. SIMPLE DISLOCATION OF THE TIBIA INWARDS. This is the most frequent of the dislocations of the ancle. The tibia in this accident has its internal malleolus thrown inwards, and so forcibly projecting against the integuments as to threaten their bursting. The foot is thrown outwards, and its inner edge rests upon the ground. It rotates easily on its axis. There is considerable depression above the outer ancle, much pain, some crepitus, often at three inches from the lower joints of the fibula upwards, facility of lateral motion of the foot, and considerable tumefaction. Upon dissection, the internal appearances are as follow. The end of the tibia rests upon the inner side of the astragalus, instead of resting on its upper articulatory surface; and if the accident