105 OF HERNIiE IN THE INGUINAL CANAL. the director between the cremaster and edge of the external ring, and introducing a probed bistoury, I cut through a part of the tendon of the external oblique, so as to enlarge the external ring. On passing my finger into the inguinal canal, to the edge of the transversalis muscle, I felt some further resistance, and again in- troducing the director, I carefully separated some fibres of this muscle. The contents of the hernial sac were then reduced, and the edges of the wound being approximated, the patient was put to bed. The wound healed kindly in about three weeks, although the hernia was protruded upon the slightest exertion, which would have occasioned much irritation, had the sac been opened. The ! patient was subsequently obliged to wear a laced bag truss. Should the stricture be seated in the neck of the hernial sac itself, of course the division of the parts exterior to it will not re- lieve the strangulation; in this case the sac must be opened care- fully at the upper part only, so as to allow of a division of the stricture. Having divided the stricture, the surgeon must avoid violence in attempting to return the protruded parts, for the reasons I have before mentioned. I have known the intestine ruptured in forcibly i endeavouring to effect the reduction after the liberation of the stricture. The case occurred in St. Thomas’s Hospital, and ter- minated fatally. The ruptured intestine is preserved in the col- lection at that hospital. Some surgeons object to the division of the stricture without | opening the hernial sac, urging that the intestine or omentum may be in a gangrenous state, and that this cannot be ascertained unless the sac be opened; but I should imagine that a very limited ex- perience would enable the surgeon to form an accurate opinion in this respect. OF HERNIiE IN THE INGUINAL CANAL. Division of tlie stricture. Care in return- ing the viscera. The oblique hernia is sometimes confined entirely to the in- Appearance.