ON GANGRENE. 125 formed, but it becomes loose, and ceases to attach to the surrounding parts; the chasm formed by the absorbent vessels affording- an opportunity for the separation. The next part which begins to separate is the cellular tissue Separation of r cellular tissue, immediately under the skin. Gangrene proceeds to much greater extent in the cellular tissue than in the surrounding skin, because the cellular membrane is a part of weaker living powers. It is for this reason that a sloughing disposition in sores extending to the cellular membrane is so dangerous. A small chancre beginning in the pudendum of the female, and sometimes in the penis, will frequently occasion destruction of life in the part. Some persons have absurdly supposed that these sloughing sores are not chancres, because they have not the common venereal character. But how does this happen? If a chancre forms in the pudendum of an irritable female, and has a sloughing disposition, it extends into the cellular tissue, inflames to a high degree, and produces gangrene. In this manner the character of the chancre becomes destroyed. There is at this time an unfortunate female in the other hospital, who has lost a considerable portion of the external organs of generation, in consequence of a sloughing chancre. The hospitals teem with such cases: and indeed this deplorable result is always to be expected when a sloughing chancre extends into the cellular tissue, a part naturally weak, and rendered weaker in these persons from their irritability and mode of life. The next part which separates is muscle. Muscles separate Separation of nearly opposite the edge of the skin. Wherever the skin separates, the muscle gives way; a line of separation is formed, and the living portion of muscle is taken away from the dead. This is not the case with tendons; these, like the cellular tissue, do not separate Tendons, opposite the skin, but at a considerable distance from the part at which the sloughing takes place. If a tendon is exposed in the palm of the hand, by a sloughing ulcer, it separates at the wrist, for it is incapable of resisting the inflammation, in consequence of its weak living powers, and separates therefore at the part where it joins the muscle.