457 OP EMPYEMA. an ulcerative process is produced, by which the pus escapes to the I-outer side of the ribs under the integument, which at last also ulcerates, and thus the matter becomes discharged. I was sent for to Miss B—, in Chatham Place, Blackfriars, to Case, meet her medical attendant, Mr. Murley, on account of her being under the following circumstances. She had great dyspnoea, severe I cough, a quick small pulse, great emaciation, and hectic flushes, ' succeeded by rigors. When I examined her left side, I found a large swelling in the situation of the spleen, and another, about the size of a walnut, between the third and fourth ribs ; when I pressed upon the tumour in the situation of the spleen, that between the third and fourth ribs became enlarged, so that there was evidently a fluid fluctuating between the two swellings. Thus I found that the enlargement on the left side of the abdomen was occasioned by a descent of the diaphragm from accumulation of fluid in the chest, and I did not hesitate to advise that an opening should be made into the small and circumscribed swelling between the ribs. This being done, an immense flow of matter immediately succeeded ; and when the swelling in the region of the spleen was pressed, the flow increased. After a very long continued and i copious discharge, this young lady recovered, and now enjoys good health. 1 attended a young lady in Seymour-street under exactly similar case. circumstances, and she also recovered from the same plan of treatment. These abscesses would of themselves soon have burst, but I thought it better to save the constitution by aiding the efforts of nature. It frequently happens, however, that the accumulation of pus The pus does in the thorax is not accompanied by a partial swelling between the "“it[^ways ribs, and under these circumstances the surgeon must be guided in externally, his judgment by the symptoms I have described. In this case, it will be required to make an incision into the thorax without any well marked circumstance in the disease, to direct the situation of the opening. The surgeon will then consider in what place the