DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANCI.E-JOINT. 367 of a person jumping from a carriage in rapid motion with the toe pointed forwards. The treatment consists in attending to the following rules. The Redaction, patient should be placed in bed on his back ; one assistant grasps I the thigh at its lower part and draws it towards the body, another pulls the foot in a line a little before the axis of the leg, and the surgeon pushes the tibia back to bring it into its place. The same Treatment, principles are held in view in the mode of reduction as in the former, with respect to the relaxation of the muscles. A many- tailed bandage, dipped in an evaporating lotion, must be lightly applied. The local and constitutional treatment is the same as in the dislocation inwards. As to position, it is best to keep the patient with the heel rest- ing on a pillow, and to have a splint, properly guarded, on each side of the leg, having foot-pieces to keep the foot well supported at right angles with the leg, so as to prevent the muscles again drawing it from its place. As in five weeks the fibula will be united, there will be then no danger in taking the patient from his bed, and gentle passive motion may be begun. The application of a long splint on each side, with a foot-piece i to each splint, and this padded in such a manner as to give the foot a direction inwards, outwards, or at right angles, according to the direction of the dislocation, answers better than any other mode of securing it. When this is applied, the foot cannot escape from the situation in which the surgeon has placed it. Baron Dupuytren, of the Hotel Dieu, a very eminent surgeon, has recommended a single splint, well cushioned, along the outer or inner part of the leg, according to the direction of the dislocation, and fastened to the leg and foot by bandages.—See a plate in Johnson’s Medico-Chirurgical Review. PARTIAL DISLOCATION OF THE TIBIA FORWARDS. This bone is sometimes partially luxated forwards, so as to rest half on the os naviculare and half on the astragalus. The fibula Symptoms, in this accident is broken; the foot appears but little shortened,