371 TREATMENT. I had a patient in Guy’s Hospital with a stone in his bladder, in Case, whom various experiments were tried to dissolve the stone by chemical menstrua. A catheter was introduced into the bladder, and through it injections were thrown; thus an opportunity was given for a direct application of the menstruum to the stone. After a lapse of time, I said to this man, “ Well, have my medical friends dissolved the stone?” his answer was, “No, Sir, and I have given up all tl^e injections except opium, from which I receive i considerable relief.” The patient died in the Hospital, and, on i examination after death, a stone was found in his bladder. But although a stone cannot be dissolved in the bladder, yet the Alkalies ; irritability of the latter may be so far diminished by alkaline {^sufferings, remedies, as to enable the patient to bear the disease with much less suffering. Admiral Douglas was the subject of stone; I sounded him, and Case, in the evening of that day a portion of the stone was discharged by the urethra, and I sent it to my friend Dr. Marcet for analysis, who found it to be oxalate of lime; I therefore gave him acids, but he was not relieved by their use; he then took subcarbonate of soda 5ss. four times in the day, in some water. Some months „ afterwards I was requested to meet Dr. Reynolds and Sir E. Home in consultation upon the case of the Duke of Portland; and when I entered the room, Sir Everard said, “ Cooper, how did you dissolve the stone in Admiral Douglas?” to which I answered, “ I never dissolved a stone in my life.”—“ But,” said Sir Everard, “ he expresses himself well from some medicine you ordered him.” I called in consequence on the Admiral at his hotel; when he said, “ You saw me in dreadful agony, unable to cross a room; but since I have taken the soda, I went from Yarmouth, in Norfolk, to Portsmouth, by land, and bore the journey well; and I could now go down a country dance.” Yet the stone still existed in his bladder; but the soda had lessened its sensibility, so as to enable him to bear the complaint without much suffering, and only a little inconvenience from the stone, which still occasionally stopped the flow of urine. Magnesia and soda have been recommended together; but as Magnesia