GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF IIERNIA. 6 Adhesion. Shape. Vessels con- nected with it. Coverings. cover from dissection, it is the former which are extremely thickened in old hernia, whilst the latter is but little denser than the peritoneum. A hernial sac, however small, adheres to the parts by which it is surrounded, but yet can be readily drawn into the cavity of the abdomen; this I have several times done in the dead subject, and have then seen the sac lying loosely within the cavity of the abdo- men, at the orifice through which it had descended. The return, however, of the sac can only be effected whilst the hernia is small, and in the most recent state; for, if it has been of long standing, or has descended far, it has always contracted such firm adhesions to the surrounding parts, that it can be separated only by dis- section. At first the adhesions are few and weak, but they gra- dually become strong, and uniformly spread over the surface of the sac. The opening by which the sac communicates with the abdomen is generally its smallest part, and is called its mouth; but when it has passed a short way from the abdomen, and has quitted the tendons which surround its mouth, it enters parts more easily dis- tensible than tendinous structure, and then dilates into a bag of a pyriform shape. As the hernial sac generally passes through openings which are designed for the passage of blood-vessels, its exact situation with respect to these vessels should be attended to most carefully. Nor are those which accompany the hernial tumour the only ves- sels that require attentive observation; for in the two most im- portant hernias, the inguinal and femoral, an artery passes near the orifice of the sac, the course of which it is of the utmost import- ance for the surgeon to observe, as an ignorance of it must often expose the life of the patient to imminent risk in the operation for hernia when in a state of strangulation, as two cases hereafter de- tailed will show. The coverings with which a hernial tumour is invested, will en- tirely depend on the nature and structure of the parts protruded before the sac; thus, in one kind of inguinal hernia, muscular fibre