373 dislocations of the ancle-joint. The causes of the violence of these symptoms are, the wound which is made into the joint, and the great efforts required for its repair; for when there is no wound, and the process of adhesion can unite the part, little local inflammation or constitutional irri- tation occur; and if this be the cause of the violence of the sym- ptoms the principle in the treatment of this accident is easily com- prehended ; it consists in closing the wound as completely as pos- sible, to assist nature in the adhesive process by which the wound is to be closed, and to render suppuration and granulation less necessary for the union of the opened joint. The first question which arises upon this subject is the follow- ing : Is amputation generally necessary in compound dislocations of the ancle ? My answer is, certainly not. Thirty years ago it was the practice to amputate limbs for this accident; and the operation was then thought absolutely necessary for the preservation of life by some of our best surgeons; but so many limbs have been saved of late years, indeed, I may say, so great a majority of these cases exist, that such advice would now be considered not only inju- ! dicious, but cruel. It is far from being my intention to state that I amputation is never required; I have only to observe, that in a great number of these accidents the operation is unnecessary. But before I give the proofs of what I have advanced, I shall state the mode of treatment which is to be pursued in these cases. When the surgeon examines the limb, he finds a wound of !greater or less extent, according to the degree of the injury. The |extremity of the tibia projects if the dislocation of the tibia be inwards; and the tibia and fibula are protruded, if the dislocation of the former be at the outer ancle. The ends of the bones are often covered with dirt from their having reached the ground. The foot is loosely hanging on the inner or outer side of the leg according to the direction of the dislocation. Sometimes, though very rarely, a large artery will be divided ; and it is surprising that the posterior tibial artery so generally escapes laceration; the an- terior tibial being the only vessel I have known to be torn. The irrcst of haemorrhage is the first object; and for this purpose, if Cause of the symptoms. Principle of cure. Is amputation required ? Treatment. Artery divided.