28 ON INFLAMMATION. Ophthalmic and mammary inflammation. Testes. Bladder. Cause of in- flammation. parts are more frequently attacked by it than the breasts of young women. It produces such a degree of tenderness that they cannot bear the slightest pressure, and their stays consequently occasion great inconvenience—the pain extends to the shoulder, down the arm, and even to the elbow, at the same time producing constitu- tional irritation. To cure these pains and general derangement, such medicines must be given as will influence the secretions, but more particularly those of the uterus. The irritable inflammation frequently attacks the testicles, and renders them exceedingly sensitive, the slightest pressure causing very great pain. There is in these cases little or no alteration of size; if any difference, the affected one is the smallest. In three instances I have been obliged to remove testicles for this disease. The subject of one of these cases was a gentleman from South Carolina: he came to England for advice, and went the whole round of medical men, without experiencing any alleviation of his sufferings. He then desired me to remove the torturing part; this was done, and the gentleman went back to his native country quite well. I heard, that soon after his return he got married, and, am happy to add, that his lady had a child ! The bladder is also very commonly disordered by this irritable inflammation, and the symptoms in many respects resemble those of stone—in both cases there is pain in making water, and the urine is frequently mixed with blood. The grand difference in the two cases is this: the irritable bladder is most painful when the organ is full; the bladder that contains a stone, when it is empty. Upon dis- section, the inner coat of an irritable bladder has been seen the colour of red velvet. I have known this irritable inflammation attack the rectum, and produce excessive suffering, which was relieved by large doses of soda, rhubarb, and the compound powder of ipecacuanha. Inflammation sometimes arises from debility, and this state is frequently seen in the lower extremities of old persons, in whom the blood returns to the heart with difficulty. From this weakened power, the arteries are called upon for unusual exertion, and inflam-