57 AND USE OF TRUSSES. \ this understrap is not necessary; but when the pelvis inclines 1 towards the abdomen, the truss will slip from its proper position unless retained by the strap. Many surgeons, and almost every surgeons’ instrument maker, have thought proper to vary the form of the truss, and to prescribe different rules for the direction and force of the pressure ; but almost all were formerly agreed in determining that the pressure should be made on the external abdominal ring. This is precisely the circumstance, however, in which they were all defective, and, indeed, it is the frequent failure of the purpose for which they are designed that has led to such variety in the mode of their construction. The object in applying a truss, is to close the mouth of the hernial sac, and destroy its communication with the abdomen, and this object can never be perfectly fulfilled by any truss which is applied on the external abdominal ring, and extending from it upon the os pubis. In this case, the cure must be incomplete, because a consider- able portion of the hernial sac remains uncompressed towards the abdomen, which portion is that situated between the abdominal ring and the opening into the cavity of the abdomen. Nor is this all the mischief that attends this practice, for the pressure of the spermatic cord by the truss against the os pubis, frequently occa- sions great pain, to relieve which the patient is constantly shifting its situation and destroying its effect, and often the testes them- selves become wasted by the interruption of the blood along the spermatic vessels. The proper method of obliterating the mouth of the hernial sac is to apply the truss not only on the external abdominal ring, but also on the aperture at which the spermatic cord, and with it the hernia, first quit the abdomen ; for the descent of a hernia cannot be entirely prevented, or a cure be effected, but by making pres- sure on the internal abdominal aperture and on the inguinal canal. The effect of wearing a truss on this part, is to approximate the sides of the mouth of the sac, and thus to prevent any future de- Defect of old trusses. Object of apply- ing a truss. Obliteration of the mouth of the sac.