GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF HERNIA. .‘5 ischiatic notch projecting by the side of the sciatic nerve under the glutaei muscles. This takes the name of the part, and is termed hernia of the ischiatic notch, or ischiatocele. Seventhly: Sometimes a hernia passes between the bladder and rectum in the male, and between the rectum and uterus in the female, appearing in the perineum. It is then called hernia perinei. Eighthly: I have seen the vagina protruded by a descent of the viscera between the rectum and uterus, and pushed backwards by the bladder, forming a considerable external tumour when the bladder was full, which disappeared as soon as it was emptied. Ninthly: I have met with a hernia protruding into the labium pudendi, passing under the ramus of the ischium with the internal pudendal artery, but continued into the pelvis by the side of the vagina. Tenthly: Hernia has been known to protrude through the dia- phragm, sometimes by the side of the oesophagus, sometimes ac- companying the vena cava inferior, sometimes, though more rarely, by the side of the aorta, but more frequently through unnatural apertures in the muscle. Eleventhly: I have two preparations in my possession, of hernia occasioned by the viscera passing between the laminae of the peritoneum ; in one of these they passed into the mesentery ; Twelfthly: In the other into a bag formed by a separation of the laminae of the mesocolon, in which all the small intestines were contained. When the mesentery is imperfectly formed, openings are sometimes found in it, through which the viscera pass and be- come strangulated; these can scarcely be termed herniae, as the intestine still remains within its proper abdominal cavity. That species of hernia, which, from its frequently appearing at the time of birth, is called congenita, takes the same course through the abdominal rings as the inguinal hernia; but instead of passing down upon the fore part of the spermatic process, it de- scends within the tunica vaginalis testis, and ought therefore to be named the hernia tunicse vaginalis. Perineal. Vaginal. Pudendal. Diaphragmatic. Mesenteric. Mesocolie. Congenital. There is no part of the abdomen, excepting where the parietes c