DISSECTION OF THE 32 Spermatic cord. Epigastric arteries. salis; whilst, on the back part, it is bounded by the united tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis, and by the fascia trans- versalis. Its length is about two inches. In considering the parts which form the walls, it is most important to take into the account the internal, oblique, and transversalis ; because those muscles are so disposed as to form the inguinal canal into a true muscular passage, by which means the viscera of the abdomen are supported at the internal ring, at the precise time when support is required, namely, during great muscular exertions. The student should now notice the courses and relations of the cord. This important structure quits the abdominal cavity at the internal ring; it passes downwards and forwards, following the course of the inguinal canal, in which it is lodged, till it reaches the external ring; it passes through the outer part of that open- ing, and then turning suddenly down, it runs into the scrotum. In this course it will be found that having, at the internal ring, re- ceived the covering of the fascia spermatica interna, it next passes beneath the fleshy arch, formed by the internal oblique and trans- versalis, where it receives the fibres of the cremaster muscle. As it passes through the external ring, it acquires the fascia spermatica externa, and also the covering of the fascia superficialis and skin. By cautiously dividing the fascia transversalis, just on the pu- bic side of the internal ring, the epigastric blood-vessels will be brought into view, surrounded by a quantity of lax cellular tissue and fat, and lying on the peritoneum. These consist of the artery placed in the middle, and of two accompanying veins, of which the one next to the pubis is usually the largest. The epi- gastric artery, arising from the external iliac muscle, first of all runs downwards, but very soon altering its course it passes up- wards and inwards, towards the edge of the rectus muscle, so as to describe an arch around the great cul de sac formed by the peritoneum in the neighbourhood of the crural arch. In the course described, the vessel passes behind the inguinal canal and spermatic cord, nearly at a right angle, being separated from those parts by the fascia transversalis; it is placed between the two ab-