Nature of the accident. Detection diffi- cult. Signs. Specimen in St. Thomas’s Hospital. 284 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. to be remembered that it is a dislocation backwards and a little upwards. In this dislocation the head of the thigh-bone is placed on the , pyriformis muscle, between the edge of the bone which forms the upper part of the ischiatic notch, and the sacro-sciatic ligaments, l behind the acetabulum, and a little above the level of the middle of that cavity. This dislocation is the most difficult both to detect and to re- duce : to detect, because the length of the limb differs but little, and its position, in regard to the knee and foot, is not so much i changed as in the dislocations upwards: to reduce, because the head of the bone is placed deep behind the acetabulum, and it therefore requires to be lifted over the edge of that cavity as well as to be drawn towards its socket. The signs of this dislocation are, that the limb is from half an inch to one inch shorter than the other, but generally not more than half an inch; that the trochanter major is behind its usual place, but is still remaining nearly at right angles with the ilium, with a slight inclination towards the acetabulum. The head of the bone is so buried in the ischiatic notch, that it cannot be distinctly t; felt, except in thin persons, and then only by rolling the thigh- I bone forwards as far as the comparatively fixed state of the limb will allow. The knee and foot are turned inwards, but less than in the dislocation upwards ; and the toe rests against the ball of the great toe of the other foot. When the patient is standing, the toe touches the ground, but the heel does not quite reach it. The knee is not so much advanced as in the dislocation upwards, but is still brought a little more forwards than the other, and is slightly bent. The limb is so fixed that flexion and rotation are in a great degree prevented. There is a good specimen of this accident in the collection at St. Thomas’s Hospital, which I met with accidentally, in a subject brought for dissection. The original acetabulum is en- tirely filled with a ligamentous substance, so that the head of