211 WOUNDS OF THE SFUEEN. the destruction of life, as is known from the case of the soldier mentioned by Dr. Gooch, and by numerous experiments on ani- mals, yet a very small wound of it is sometimes destructive of life; the best example of which I shall give in the following case:— A lieutenant of a press-gang was attempting to press a man, Case, who resisted with much violence; a scuffle ensued, and the lieu- tenant struck the man with his dirk, which entered near the ensiform cartilage, and its blade was nearly buried in the body. The man was brought to St. Thomas’s Hospital, pale and ex- tremely depressed, his abdomen became tense, and he died. Upon examining his body, it was discovered that the dirk had passed from the ensiform cartilage, under the margin of the chest into the abdomen, on the left side, and that its point had penetrated the concave surface of the spleen ; the cavity of the abdomen was filled with fluid blood. It is said, that the spleen has been often wounded by the tro- Wounded in char, when tapping was performed on the left side, which, under tapp'ng‘ enlargement of this organ, might happen. I have several times known the spleen ruptured by carriages Ruptured, going over the abdomen, and once by the horn of an ox. Each ' of these cases proved fatal. Twice have I known the spleen torn from its natural attachment Case, to the diaphragm. The first instance, was in a patient of Drs. Ba- bington and Letsom ; a Miss Harris, who, having vomited violently, discovered soon after a swelling at the groin, and at the lower part of the abdomen. I was asked if it was hernia, and I declared it was not. She died after a week, vomiting constantly the liquids which she swallowed. When the abdomen was opened after her death, the swelling was found to arise from the spleen, which had been detached from the diaphragm, and was enlarged by the in- terruption to the return of blood from the veins, although the artery still contained blood. The spleen was turned half round on the axis of its vessels. The other case was that of a gentleman who was hunting in Case. r 2