DISLOCATIONS OF THE OS HUMERI. 425 bone will usually slip into its natural position. Whilst the exten- sion is proceeding, I have seen a gentle rotatory motion of the arm diminish opposition of the muscles, and the bone suddenly ! slip into its place. But when a limb has remained a considerable length of time dislocated; when the muscles are so powerfully contracted that i the force of men cannot be so steadily exerted as to reduce the limb, after several attempts, the minds and bodies of the assistants becoming fatigued, and their efforts violent and unequal, then we employ the third mode of reduction— By means of the Pulleys. And here let it be understood, that they are not adopted with a view of employing greater force, for that might be obtained by the aid of more persons; but they are introduced to enable the sur- geon to employ the force gradually and equally; to avoid jerks and unequal extension, which, in protracted cases, the efforts of men are sure to produce. If therefore I saw a surgeon, as soon as the pulleys were fixed, draw them violently, and endeavour suddenly to reduce the limb, I should not hesitate at once to say, “ That gentleman is ignorant of the principle upon which this mechanical power is employed, and has still this part of his profession to learn.” For the application of the pulley the patient is to be seated between two staples, which are screwed into the wainscot on each side of him; the bandages are then applied, precisely as in the former mode, in which the extension is performed by men, and the force is applied in the same direction: the surgeon should first draw the pulley, as the class of people usually summoned to his assistance, being ignorant of the principle upon which it is employed, would use too great violence; he should draw gently and steadily, until the patient begins to complain of pain, and then cease, keeping up the degree of extension, and conversing with the patient to direct his mind to other objects. In two or three minutes, more force should be applied, and continued until pain be again complained of, when the surgeon should again cease Pulleys. Application of the pulley.