OF STRANGULATED UMBILICAL HERNIAS. 144 Danger of. Treatment. When very large. Symptoms. Causes. Seat of stricture. Treatment. Taxis. With such a large hernia the patient is exposed to constant danger from blows or falls ; besides the weight of the tumour, and an ulcerated state of integument, which often occurs, renders the patient incapable of following any employment requiring bodily exertion. When the hernia is irreducible, and not of very large size, a truss should be worn with a hollow pad, as recommended for irre- ducible inguinal herniae. The hollow should be just sufficient to contain the swelling, and the edges should be rounded off so as to prevent any injury from pressure to the surrounding parts. The substance of the cup should be pewter, which should be covered with soft leather. The spring should be of the same kind as that of the common truss. In very large herniae of this description, a truss cannot be worn; and all that can be done to relieve the patient is to support the swelling by bandages, passed over the shoulder so as to prevent the constant dragging of the tumour. OF STRANGULATED UMBILICAL HERNLE. The symptoms indicating strangulation in this form of hernia, are the same as those I have described as existing when inguinal U or femoral herniae are in the same state; but in the umbilical dis- ease they are generally less urgent. Strangulation is frequently produced in these cases by the pa- tient taking food not easy of digestion, or such as occasions flatu- lency ; persons having this complaint should therefore eat sparingly, and be careful to avoid all food difficult of digestion, or likely to create flatulence. The seat of stricture is usually at the tendinous opening through which the hernia protrudes, but sometimes the neck of the sac itself is thickened, and prevents the reduction of the viscera. When strangulation exists, the surgeon should first endeavour to relieve the patient by employing the taxis in the following manner. The patient being placed on the back, the shoulders should be