12 ANATOMY OF HERNIA. behind the spermatic cord. The epigastric artery is shewn here by cutting the fascia transversalis parallel to it. t t. The spermatic cord, nearly two inches of which are above and to the outer side of the abdominal ring, and still not in the abdomen; it is also seen below the ring, running to the testicle. Direction. Superficial fascia. No opening be- bind the ring. These columns are united, at the point where they begin to di- verge, by cross tendinous fibres, which may be traced from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and from the lower boundary of the tendon called Poupart’s ligament. These fibres cross from one pillar to the other, and bind them firmly together, assisted by additional bands passing between the edges of the columns. The direction of these fibres is at right angles with those of the tendon of the external oblique. The direction of the abdominal rings is obliquely upward and outward ; for, although they have received the appellation of rings, they are far from being annular in their figure, but approach rather to the triangular form; their longest diameter, which is that from the pubes to the transverse fibres, is about an inch; while their transverse breadth from one column to the other is only half an inch: the centre of the aperture is one inch and a quarter from the symphisis pubis. A dense cellular fascia is found under the integuments, covering the tendon of the external oblique muscle; it adheres to the edge of the abdominal ring, and accompanies the spermatic cord in its descent into the scrotum, with which latter it is closely connected; it also descends upon the thigh; and, to distinguish it from other structures, I shall call it superficial fascia. It gives a covering to both inguinal and femoral herniae. The direct passage of the spermatic cord into the cavity of the abdomen is prevented by tendons and a fascia, which are probably intended as a guard against protrusion of the contents of the belly.