OF CONGENITAL HERNIA. 118 Closure of the tunic. Irreducible. Operation. Large quantity of fluid. Seat of stric- ture. After the truss has been worn for some time, the tunica vagi- nalis becomes closed at the upper part, and near the testicle, but sometimes remains open between, allowing a space for the deposit of fluid which occasionally takes place, forming hydrocele of the cord, and for the cure of which I have had to perform an operation on several occasions. With regard to the treatment of this hernia in the irreducible state, the same as directed for common inguinal hernia, is here ap- plicable ; and when strangulated, the same means as recommended in the latter case, should be employed for the relief of the pa* tient. When an operation is required, it should differ from that de- scribed as necessary for common oblique inguinal hernia, in the following particidar. Having laid bare the tunica vaginalis, it should not be opened low down on account of exposing the testicle, but a sufficient quantity of the tunic should be left whole to cover this gland. On opening the tunica vaginalis, a much larger quantity of fluid generally escapes than is found in the sac of a common inguinal hernia. The seat of stricture will be generally found under the edge of the transversalis muscle, or at the internal ring, when it should be divided in the same manner as in other cases of hernia; after which, the protruded parts, if not adherent, should be returned. If extensively adherent, the stricture should be divided in the same way, but the surgeon should not attempt to separate the adhesions, unless very few and slight, in order to allow of the return of the parts ; but they should be left; and after the wound has healed, a bag truss will be required, as for other irreducible scrotal herniae. In operating for this form of hernia, the testicle is sometimes found in the inguinal canal in contact with the intestine; in which case the intestine only should be returned into the abdomen, the testicle being left in the canal. The stricture in this case is at the orifice of the tunica vaginalis.