■ TREATMENT OF STRANGULATED HERNIA. 79 | tinue with unabated violence, and the tumour resists every at- tempt at reduction, no further trial of the ice should be made. It is improper to apply the ice to the part wrapped up between | folds of cloth, as is often done, as the melted portion constantly keeps the patient’s bed wet and uncomfortable; and besides, if long continued, it produces a frost bite, and the part sloughs off. An instance of this kind occurred to Mr. Sharp and Mr. Cline, in a case which they attended in February, 1780. They directed ice to be applied to a strangulated hernia, which being continued for thirty-six hours, occasioned the integuments to freeze to the extent of four inches. The part was white and hard, but when the ice was removed, it thawed, becoming again red and warm, and soon after the hernia was reduced. The integuments which had been frozen continued red and inflamed for ten days, when they became livid, and sloughed as far as they had been frozen, but the ulcer afterwards healed without difficulty. As ice cannot be procured in many situations, some substitute for it must be had. The most convenient is a mixture of sal am- moniac and nitre, first finely powdered and mixed in equal pro- portions. Sixteen ounces of water being put into the bladder, ten ! ounces of the mixed salt is to be thrown in, and the bladder then tied up and laid upon the tumour. The degree of cold produced by this mixture is lower in the hottest weather than the freezing point of water, and if the water be previously cooled, the cold will be greater. Nitrate of ammonia and water, in equal parts, produces a still greater intensity of cold; but as this salt is not used in medicine, it is not easily procured. Vinegar and sal ammoniac, and vinegar with spirit of wine, generate too slight a degree of cold to be much depended on for this purpose. In addition to the means hitherto described, it is proper to give opium to allay the violence of the vomiting. After copious bleed- ing opium is of particular service, and much assists the subsequent attempts at reduction. With respect to cathartics, the most drastic kind were formerly Mode of apply- ing the ice. Substitutes for ice. Opium to allay the vomiting. Cathartics.