tlie cremaster muscle as far as the external ring ; after this I passed Danger from the taxis. Extensive ad- hesions. Mode of ope- rating. Case. Operation. 104 OF LARGE HERNIA. Also, in large hernia, a considerable extent of protruded in- testine being submitted to much violence in the attempt to reduce it, often gives rise to inflammation, which may produce fatal con- sequences. Sometimes extensive adhesions have been formed between the sac and protruded intestine, or the portion of peritoneum which has descended, and is forming part of the sac, may have brought with it a portion of the intestine, to which it is naturally closely connected, as the coecum, and which thus becomes irreducible: in either case the reduction of the hernia is of course prevented. Instead of performing the same operation, as in other cases, I should, under these circumstances, merely expose the upper part of the hernial sac, and divide the stricture without opening the peritoneum, unless the stricture happened to be seated in the mouth of the sac itself. The first time that I had an opportunity of performing the operation in this manner, was upon a patient of Mr. Birch’s, in St. Thomas’s Hospital. The man was between fifty and sixty years j of age, and had been subject to a hernia from his infancy, which, becoming strangulated, and not yielding to the usual measures, rendered an operation necessary. From the size of the hernia, which reached half way to the knees, and its duration, I conceived that such adhesions might have occurred as would render its re- duction impossible, and that the ordinary mode of operating would be extremely hazardous, on account of exposing so large a surface of intestine; I therefore determined upon trying what could be effected by a division of the stricture, without opening the hernial sac. I commenced by making an incision, beginning about one inch and a half above the external abdominal ring, and terminating about the same distance below it; this exposed the tendon of the external oblique, and the fascia of the cord. I then carefully made an opening into the latter, large enough to admit a director, which I introduced, and upon it divided the fascia so as to expose