Constitution irritable. Case oi" Bar- clay’s drayman. 1390 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. I fia’ole, as far as the experience of cases in this climate will enable me to form an opinion. I have not seen amputation performed for compound dislocation of the ancle, but I have seen it performed for compound fracture 1 just above the joint, and it seemed to me to precipitate the fatal event. I have also known, in one case, the finger amputated for tetanus arising from injury to it, yet the patient died ; and I have also heard of a third case in which it was practised, but still the issue was fatal. There is a species of chronic tetanus, which sometimes even succeeds wounds, and which will occasionally subside, and appa- ,:i! rently the patient will recover, although little be done by medicine, I* and nothing by surgery ; in such cases it would not be justifiable ¥ 9 u-1 to amputate. * If any medicine be efficacious, submurias hydrargyri, with opium, is that under which I have seen the majority of these cases re- [ 11 cover : and opium should also be applied to the wound. 12. A very irritable State of Constitution, £ m Will sometimes render all treatment unavailing to save the limb, 5 sa and will now and then prove destructive, even if the operation be performed. There are some persons originally constituted with so ril irritable a system, that the slightest injuries will destroy them. I I11 There is a much greater number whose constitutions, originally sta good, have been so much injured by excess, by want of exercise, i® by over exertion of mind, drinking freely of spirits and eating but ! p little, that to them the slightest accidents prove fatal. One of the most curious examples of this kind which I have 1 seen, was the following. A man who worked at Barclay’s Brewhouse, in the Borough, ' was, on Saturday, turning a cask, when a splinter of wood entered am his thumb, which he immediately drew out. The following night he requested his wife to rise and make him a poultice; for his ow thumb, he said, was painful. ! "p On Monday he sent for Mr. John Kent, surgeon in the Borough, 'frie