456 FRACTURES OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. Case. Appearances of the fracture of the coronoid process of the ulna. Dissection. Treatment. FRACTURE OF THE CORONOID PROCESS OF THE ULNA. A gentleman came to London for the opinion of different sur- geons upon the following case. This gentleman had fallen upon his hand whilst in the act of running; and, on rising, he found his elbow incapable of being bent, nor could he entirely straighten it: he applied to his surgeon in the country, who, upon examination, found that the ulna projected considerably backwards ; but that so soon as he bent the arm, it resumed its natural form. He immediately con- fined the limb in a splint, and kept it in a sling. When I saw this gentleman in town, several months had elapsed since the accident ; yet the same appearances, which the surgeon described when he first saw the injury, remained ; namely, the ulna projected back- wards whilst the arm was extended, but it was without much diffi- culty drawn fomards and bent, and the deformity was then re- moved. It was thought, at the consultation that was held about him in London, that the coronoid process was detached from the ulna ; and that thus, during extension, the ulna slipped back behind the inner condyle of the humerus. I had been in the habit of mentioning this case at lecture, for several years; when on one occasion a person was brought to the dissecting-room at St. Thomas’s Hospital, who had been the subject of the same accident; and the joint is preserved in our museum. The coronoid process, which had been broken off within the joint, had united by ligament only, so as to move readily upon the ulna, and thus alter the sigmoid cavity of the ulna so much as to allow, in extension, that bone to glide back- wards upon the condyles of the humerus. As to the treatment of this accident, I am doubtful whether any mode can completely succeed; as the coronoid process, like the head of the thigh-bone, loses its ossific nourishment, and has no other than a ligamentous support. Its life is preserved by the vessels of the reflected portions of the capsular ligament upon the