31S FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART OF TIIF. THIGH-BONE. in apposition. The capsular ligament was much thickened, and contained a large quantity of synovia. The joint was lined with adhesive matter of a ligamentous appearance adhering to the head of the bone, which did not seem to be changed by any ossific process; but the thigh-bone around the capsular ligament, the trochanter major, and the bone a little below it were enlarged. We find, therefore, by these dissections, that what appears in the human subject after this accident, takes place also in other animals ; and that motion, want of apposition and pres- sure, with the little ossific action in the head of the bone, under these circumstances, produce a deficiency of bony union, as in man. The two preparations which I have preserved, were the only ex- amples in which the experiment was complete in relation to the transverse fracture ; but I have two other interesting preparations derived from these experiments. I also made a great number ot others, in which the fractures continued compound; in each of these the head of the bone either became absorbed, or was discharged by ulceration; and I never could succeed in uniting the head to the neck of the bone. I have since divided the neck of the thigh-bone in a dog, and the head of the bone was three- fourtlis absorbed. By way of contrast, I have also divided the bone externally to the capsule, in five instances, and have pre- served the bones: the wounds united by adhesion, and every bont has been healed by ossific union : the natural inference is, thai fractures within the capsule are not at all susceptible of unioi by bone, but that fractures external to it are so, readily. A; to the notion that the bearing upon the limb, or its weight may have influence to prevent union in these animals, I hav< only to observe, that the muscles become contracted, the liml is drawn up, and the animal cannot bear upon it for severa weeks. My friend, Mr. Brodie, has furnished me with the following ac