SYMPTOMS OF 48 Varies in size. Sometimes very large. Unusual protru- sions. Usual situation of the sperm- atic cord. Distinction from other diseases. VARIETIES OF OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. From the description which I have given of this hernia, it is clear that it may vary in length, from the upper ring to the testicle, and consequently that it is sometimes seen occupying only the inguinal canal. In some cases the hernia is so large as nearly to reach the knee, but in general it does not exceed two fingers’ breadth, and barely reaches to the upper part of the testicle; its bulk depends con- siderably upon the time which it has existed, upon the degree of relaxation of the patient, and upon his inattention to the disease. I have seen the pylorus descend to the mouth of the hernial sac. The urinary bladder is also occasionally situated within it; and we have an excellent specimen in the collection at Guy’s Hospital, of an inguinal hernia in the female, where the ovarium and Fallopian tube are protruded into the hernial sac. The spermatic cord is usually situated behind the hernial sac; but in one of the preparations in the Museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital, the cord is divided, the vas deferens passing upon one side, and the spermatic artery and vein upon the opposite side. I have seen also the spermatic artery and vein passing over the fore part of the sac, while the vas deferens passed behind it. SYMPTOMS OF INGUINAL HERNIA. It is discriminated from other diseases by the following marks: —it gradually descends from the abdomen in the course of the spermatic cord : it usually protrudes in the erect, and retires when the patient is in the recumbent posture : it dilates upon coughing, and upon all exertions of the abdominal muscles: flatus may be often felt in it when it is intestinal, and it retires with a gurgling noise : when omental it has a doughy feel, is much less elastic than the intestinal hernia, and retires into the abdomen more slowly; the intestinal is accompanied with costiveness, and with pain across