323 FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. the evacuation of the faeces will necessarily require. I am never so wedded to any opinion as to be prevented from trying, or from wishing others to employ, every means which appear plausible or ingenious; and, therefore, I think that this instrument ought to have a fair trial. Mr. Earle is of opinion, that these cases may be cured by long continued attention in keeping the parts at perfect rest. I think a trial should be mhde of the bed recommended by Mr. Earle, and heartily wish him success in his laudable attempt to prevent the lameness and shortening of the limb in cases of fracture within the capsule ; which has invariably been the result in those cases which I have had an opportunity of observing. But all the means which I have seen used have been found unavailing. I have been baffled at every attempt to cure, and have not yet witnessed one single example of union in this | fracture. I know that some persons still believe in the possi- I bility of this union, by surgical treatment, and that instances of success have been published; but I cannot give credence to such cases, until I see that the authors were aware of the ! distinction between fractures within and fractures external to the articulation. The cases in which union might be produced are two : one, in which the periosteum covering the neck of the thigh-bone is : not torn through, a circumstance which now and then happens ; the other in which the head of the bone is broken, so that the cervix still remains in the acetabulum: but in neither of these j cases will the limb exhibit the shortened state which the fracture of the neck of the bone usually produces, and therefore, the common characters of the accident will be wanting. Even in such cases, I would, in consideration of the confinement and dan- i ger of bony union, prefer a ligamentous union, as well from regard i to the health and life of the person, as, I believe, to the subsequent use of the joint. The various attempts at curing these cases having failed, and y 2 Mr. Earle’s fracture bed. All means un- availing. Exceptions. Hypothetical case.