ON IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA. 65 ! various other inconveniences, of which the case of Mr. Gibbon, the celebrated historian, furnishes a striking example, who had a tu- mour of such magnitude, as required to be concealed by a peculiar 1 dress. And the penis was deeply sunken into it, so that the urine | could only escape by trickling over the surface of the scrotum, which kept it constantly excoriated. Consequences such as these | result from a neglect of proper bandages in hernia. Besides these inconveniences a very large hernia produces a dis- ease of the scrotum itself; an abscess is formed, which is kept fistu- lous by the constant distension of parts, and can hardly ever be healed without confining the patient to his bed. When the contents of hernia have become so large and encum- bered with fat as to render the disease at that time irreducible, it has been recommended previous to any attempt at reduction to make the patient undergo a course of extraordinary fasting, accom- panied with cathartic medicines, and every means to be employed to keep up a copious perspiration. It is scarcely to be doubted, that such a plan would, after a considerable time, be attended with ultimate success; but I have never met with any one who would sub- mit to such a severe regimen to free himself from a disease which only gives a present inconvenience, and does not alarm the patient for the future event. A more easy and equally effectual method is, to apply a bag- truss to support the scrotum, to lace in front. In this way a con- siderable pressure is steadily kept upon the parts, which effects a gradual absorption of the adipose matter of the protruded hernia: and thus, after some days’ confinement, the tumour becomes very much diminished, and at last may be returned. Hernia sometimes becomes irreducible, as I have before stated, from the formation of membranous bands across the sac, which entangle the protruded parts. They appear to be produced in the following manner : during the reducible state of the hernia, inflammation takes place, both in the contained parts, and in the inner surface of the sac; but by using' proper means, the protruded parts are reduced, and the sides of the Application of a bag truss. VOL. II.