49 INGUINAL HERNIA. the abdomen; the omental rarely produces any disturbance of the abdominal functions, when in the reducible state; the hernia of the bladder is distinguished by the diminution of the swelling during the evacuation of the urine. The following are the principal marks of distinction from the diseases with which it is most likely to be confounded. From hydrocele, by that disease beginning below, and gradually ascending, by its transparency, by its fluctuation, its pyriform shape, its involving the testicle, and by the want of dilatation from coughing; however, there is an exception to this, if the hydrocele enters the upper part of the scrotum, when it sometimes dilates upon coughing, and the only means of distinction are in its history, its transparency, and its fluctuation. From hydrocele of the spermatic cord, it is with great difficulty distinguished, unless the hydrocele emerges from the external ring, when its transparency indicates its true nature. Hydrocele and hernia are sometimes combined in the same in- ! dividual, of which there is a beautiful specimen in the collection at j St. Thomas’s Hospital; a case of this kind occurred to Mr. Tho- | mas Blizard, on which he operated, and a similar one to Mr. Henry Cline ; in each case the water was in the first instance discharged, and then the hernial sac became exposed behind the tunica vaginalis. Hydrocele is also connected with hernia, when there is water in the abdomen; and I have tapped a hernial sac in ascites for the discharge of the accumulated water, and it is the best mode of operating in such a case, when it is quite certain that neither the omentum nor intestine is descended, and that you can decide by the transparency. Hernia is known from haematocele, by the latter being usually the result of a blow, and by the ecchymosis which at first accom- panies it, by its not extending to the inguinal canal, by its not dilating upon coughing, by the bowels being undisturbed, and by its not returning into the abdomen. Hernia is little liable to be confounded with disease of the tes- ✓ From hydrocele. From hydrocele of the cord. Hernia and hydrocele sometimes com- bined. From haemato- cele. VOL. II. E From diseased testicle.