ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 51 the red particles, forming what is called the buff of the blood; and the serum will occupy the surrounding space. The fibrin, having lost the red particles, contracts with great firmness, and when taken out, almost resembles a piece of leather. It has been said, that the adhesive matter is albumen ; but it has been proved not to be so. Dr. Bostock, who was for several years at Guy’s Hospital, took great pains to investigate its nature, and published several papers on the subject, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions : he named it fibrin. Mr. Hunter called it coagulable lymph; this certainly was not a good term to be applied to such a substance, for lymph is expressive of, and relates to, water; whereas fibrin is not only a solid, but an exceedingly firm one. Some surfaces of the body are serous, while others are mucous. Effect on the The cellular membrane is one of the former, and usually exhales a niernb*anes. fluid somewhat resembling serum, but containing much less al- bumen. This membrane is very liable to the adhesive inflammation. The vessels that usually secrete the fluid just mentioned, when the part is inflamed, pour out fibrin, which, becoming coagulated, produces the hardness which we usually find in inflamed parts. The peritoneum, a membrane which doubly encloses the intestines, On the perito- is a serous surface, often affected by the adhesive inflammation, which occasions the two surfaces of this membrane to be firmly glued together. But the part of all others the most subject to this kind of inflam- On the pleura, mation is the pleura, and we scarcely ever open a body without finding upon its surface many unnatural adhesions. The heart, in like manner, is often glued to the pericardium, so On the peri- i nr,, . . cardium and that the space usually round between the two portions or membrane dura mater. is obliterated; and in the membranes of the brain we frequently meet with partial adhesions between the dura mater and tunica arachnoides. Thus, then, it will be seen that the serous membranes readily Wise provision take on the adhesive inflammation, by which they become perma- ° nently attached to each other, or to the adjacent parts; this is a most beautiful and wise provision of nature, for if the membranes e 2