350 OF THE OSSIFIC TUMOUR OF THE BREAST. Cause. Local treat- ment. Not malignant It has not a malignant tendency, does not therefore produce any dangerous effect, and not only does not require an operation, but such a measure would be quite unjustifiable. Very frequently this disease is accompanied with amenorrhcea, or with great paucity of menstruation, paleness of its colour, and frequently it is attended with profuse fluor albus. Its causes are irritability of constitution, generally a defect of uterine secretion, and often its immediate exciting cause is a blow. In the treatment, local irritability is to be diminished by the application of the belladonna in extract, or opium mixed with the ceratum cetacei; the extractum conii; or the recent conium in a poultice is beneficial. A plaster of soap cerate, to produce perspi- ration, or the application of hare skin, or some other fur, or the oiled silk applied with the same view, are found to be useful. Leeches are sometimes employed when the pain is excessive, and the vessels of the breast are unusually full. If too frequently used, they produce debility, and add to the irritability of the system. The constitutional treatment consists in diminishing constitu- tional irritability, by restoring defective secretion, in giving tone to the system, and in acting particularly on the uterine secretion. The usual medicines are small doses of calomel and opium, com- bined with a mild aperient, but those which best agree are the mistura myrrhae c. ferro, or the ferrum ammoniatum; under the continued use of which the disease gradually disappears. Rhubarb and soda, or these combined with columba, I have also seen very useful. Conium, combined with rhubarb, I have known beneficial. I.eeches. Constitutional treatment. Medicines, OF THE OSSIFIC TUMOUR OF THE BREAST. Case. The following is a case of this disease:—Mary Farmer, aged thirty-two, had a swelling in the breast for fourteen years, which had been painful during the latter seven. The pain was very severe; the skin over it felt hot, and required