304 FRACTURES OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. Diagnosis. Treatment. Oblique frac- ture. Treatment. Dislocation wards from fracture. seat of fracture of the fibula, that is, from one to two inches above the external malleolus to the inner ancle ; the second from one to two inches of the tibia above the ancle, downwards and outwards into the joint. The first is distinguished by crepitus at the ancle when the foot is rotated, bent, or extended; and by a slight inclination of the foot outwards. If the fracture does not enter the joint, but ob- liquely crosses the tibia above it, the lower part of the tibia slightly projects over the malleolus internus. The treatment in this case consists in using evaporating lotions ; the many-tailed bandage ; splints with a foot-piece to each, padded so as to incline the foot inwards, and to bring the toe into its natural line with the patella, which is easily effected with the splints to which I have alluded. The symptoms of the oblique fracture of the tibia downwards and outwards into the joint are, as in the former case, a crepitus P1 upon rotation, flexion, and extension ; but the foot is slightly inclined inwards, and the malleolus externus projects more than it A naturally would. The same bandages and splints are to be used as in the former case; and the position in both these accidents should be as follows : The leg should be raised so as to bend and elevate the knee; and the knee should rest upon the gastrocnemius muscle, and upon the heel. The splints will support the foot on each side, and the L leg should be supported by a pillow, reaching from the knee to beyond the foot, secured by tapes around it. I have seen both L these cases do well when the patient and his leg rested upon the L outer side : but the advantage of placing the limb upon the heel is, that it gives the surgeon an opportunity of observing the least de- L viation in the line of the foot, relatively to the axis of the leg; and this is also an easier position to the patient, up- The outer portion of the lower extremity of the tibia, at the part at which it joins the fibula, is sometimes fractured and split of! U from the shaft of the bone in jumping from a considerable height; L the foot then rises between the tibia and fibula ; a dislocation |