ANATOMY OF HERNIA. 23 The epigastric artery, in its course to the rectus muscle, is dis- tant from the femoral aperture, by which the absorbents enter, not ; more than three quarters of an inch. This vessel is subject to 1 considerable variety in its origin; for, though it generally arises near the orifice of the sheath, it not unfrequently takes its origin an inch below its usual place ; and, under this variety, approaches i much nearer to the mouth of a hernial sac. When the thigh is ex- tended, this vessel is drawn down into the sheath. The spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament of the uterus in the fe- s male, entering the internal abdominal ring on the outer side of the epigastric artery, descend obliquely along the inguinal canal; in ; their course the cord is separated from the femoral aperture by the fascia transversalis, which lies immediately above that opening ; and the crural arch. The proximity of the cord to the mouth of a femoral hernial sac should be borne in mind. The arteria circumflexa ilii arises from the external iliac artery, nearly opposite to, but a little below, the epigastric artery; and passing into a groove, formed by the common origin of the fascia iliaca and transversalis, it is continued towards the inner part of the superior spinous process of the ilium. The vena saphsena major enters the crural sheath about an inch below the crural arch, and terminates on the inner side of the femoral vein. The difference in the structure of these parts in the male and female, which chiefly conduces to the production of hernia, is well explained by Dr. Monro, Jun., in his “Observations on Crural Hernia.” The oval space forming the orifice of the crural sheath is larger in women than in men. The distance from the spine of the ilium to the symphysis pubis is greater, and, consequently, the crural arch is wider. The third insertion of the external oblique muscle is not so deep in the male as in the female. The psoas and iliacus internus occupy less space in the female than in the male. I have generally found this disease in women who have a very large pelvis in whom the ilium and pubes project more than usual. The following measurement of the parts I have described was Epigastric artery. Arteria circum flexa ilii. Vena sapbaena major. Difference of structure in the male and female. Measurement.