438 FRACTURES NEAR THE SHOULDER-JOINT. Diagnostic symptoms. thrown upon the dorsum of the scapula, where it presented a con- siderable prominence, behind the glenoid cavity, and immediately under the spine of that bone. The vacancy beneath the acromion was not so remarkable as in the axillary dislocation. The arm was closely applied to the side, and slightly inverted, the elbow being directed rather anteriorly. Free motion was practicable forward and backward, but the limb could not be raised or carried across the breast without great difficulty. Reduction was easily effected in the following manner :—The scapula being fixed, extension was made, by means of a cloth twisted around the elbow, for about three minutes; when, finding no disposition in the head of the bone to return to the cavity, although it was already in close contact with its lower and back margin, I made a fulcrum of my right hand in the axilla, and grasping the elbow in my left, readily succeeded in lifting it into its socket. FRACTURES NEAR THE SHOULDER-JOINT, LIABLE TO BE MISTAKEN FOR DISLOCATIONS. FRACTURE OF THE ACROMION. This point of bone is sometimes broken ; in which case, when the shoulders are compared, the roundness of the injured side is lost, and part of the attachment of the deltoid muscle being broken off, the head of the os humeri sinks towards the axilla as far as the capsular ligament will permit. On tracing the acromion from the spine of the scapula to the clavicle, just at their junction a de- pression is felt, from the fall of the fractured portion. If the dis- tance be measured from the sternal end of the clavicle to the ex- tremity of the shoulder, it will be found lessened on the injured side. If the surgeon raise the arm from the elbow, so as to put the deltoid muscle in motion, the natural form of the shoulder is directly restored ; but the deformity returns immediately when the arm is again suffered to fall. This accident is best detected and distinguished from dislocation by raising the arm at the elbow: having restored the figure of the