ANATOMY OF HERNIA. 17 transversalis. Below, the canal is completed by the crural arch, and anteriorly it is bounded by the tendon of the external oblique. This canal seems to answer the purpose of preventing the ready protrusion of the abdominal viscera; for, had the cord emerged from the abdomen immediately behind the external ring, few per- sons in the habit of much bodily exertion would be free from hernia; whereas, when the abdominal muscles are in action, the tendon and fascia behind the cord being pressed forward by the viscera, perform the part of a valve, and more completely shut up the passage against the descent of the viscera. The epigastric artery is situated so near to the spermatic cord, and is so much concerned in the operation for hernia, that a most accurate knowledge of its course is absolutely requisite. This vessel arises from the external iliac artery behind Poupart’s liga- ment, and, after a slight inclination downwards, passes upwards and inwards. At its commencement it is situated behind the fascia transversalis, and runs along the inner edge of the internal ring, where the spermatic cord crosses it nearly at right angles; taking its course behind the edge of the rectus, it enters the sheath of the latter muscle, and ascends to inosculate with the internal mammary artery. In its course it distributes a branch to the cre- I master, which descends on the cord, and also several to the abdo- minal muscles; it is also generally accompanied by two veins. Where the epigastric artery is crossed by the cord, it is distant about three inches from the symphysis pubis on one side, and from the superior spinous process of the ilium on the other. STRUCTURE OF THE PARTS FORMING FEMORAL HERNIA. In order to understand the parts directly and indirectly con- cerned in this intricate part of anatomy, and to comprehend the means that nature has adopted to give security to the contents of the abdomen at the upper part of the thigh, it will be necessary to describe the anatomy of the bones, and of the different fasciae, which are formed at the groin. Epigastric ar- tery. VOI.. II. C