468 DISLOCATION'S OF THE WRIST-JOINT. Svmptoms of this accident. Treatment. to the wrist, and no further. The arm should be then placed in a sling: this position is to be preserved for three weeks in young persons, and for four or five in the aged, before passive motion be attempted. The recovery in these cases is slow; and six months will sometimes elapse before motion of the fingers is com- pletely restored. FRACTURE OF THE LOWER END OF THE RADIUS WITHOUT DISLOCATION OF THE ULNA. This fracture generally happens about an inch above the styloid process. The cure is difficult, the lower extremity of the broken bone being drawn by the action of the pronator quadratus amongst the flexor tendons, where it may be distinctly felt: in this situation it interferes very considerably with the motions of the fingers, by confining the action of the flexor profundus perforans. Mr. Cline, in his lectures on this subject, used, nearly in these terms, to recommend the following treatment:—“ When a fracture of the radius happens just above the wrist-joint, you must be very careful in your treatment of it, to prevent the injury from leading to the permanent loss of the use of the fingers; for so soon as the injury has happened, the pronator quadratus muscle draws the fractured end of the bone obliquely across the fore arm, amidst the flexor tendons; your object, therefore, in the treatment of this accident is, to prevent the action of the pronator from producing that effect; and the mode of treatment which you are to adopt is, to make the hand, by its weight, oppose the action of that muscle. For this purpose, when the bone has been placed in its right position, by drawing the hand in a line with the fore arm, apply a roller around the fore arm to the wrist; then a splint upon the fore and back part of the arm to reach the palm and back of the hand, so as to preserve it in a half supine position; and confine the splints by means of a roller, which should reach only to the wrist. The arm is then to be placed in a sling, which is also to support it no fur- ther than to the wrist. Thus the hand, being allowed to hang be- tween the ends of the splints, draws the end of the radius, so as to