127 ON GANGRENE. respects complete. I am anxious, whenever I have an opportunity in these lectures, to refer you to cases actually existing in the hospitals; and you cannot have a better opportunity of observing the process of nature with respect to the separation of bones, than in the case of popliteal aneurism, to which I have before directed your attention. This man underwent the operation for aneurism in the other hospital. The aneurismal bag had been loaded with fluid blood for a length of time; the process of gangrene commenced at the ankle; all the soft parts were absorbed, and there is nothing now remaining but a portion of bone, which will also separate, if we permit it to do so. The saw would quicken the process, but it is unnecessary, for the bone will separate by the efforts of nature alone. I knew a person in the county from which I came (Norfolk), Case- whose leg entirely separated by the process of gangrene alone. In the foot this very commonly takes place ; in the calf of the leg it is not common, but below the calf, it frequently occurs. I attended one of the king’s messengers, some time ago, who came from Germany, with a gangrene in the foot. The foot separated at the tarsus, and the whole process went on without any surgical operation, and with nothing hut the aid of the simplest applications. Gangrene is frequently the effect of a debilitated state of the Gangrene the effect < constitution. Thus, if a man have been confined by long continued debility, fever, the nates are apt to slough and become gangrenous in consequence of the imperfect circulation, arising from the position in which he has been forced to remain. Some fevers have a greater tendency than others to produce gangrene; as for example,scarlatina. In slight cases of scarlatina, the most horrible effects will sometimes arise from gangrene. The tonsils will slough to a great extent, parts of the Eustachian tube, and even the tympanum will separate, and large portions of bone exfoliate. The worst effects of this kind are observed in those cases of scarlatina where the fever is not the most violent. The measles are very apt to be followed by sloughing, unless great care be taken not to irritate the skin of the chest too much.