121 ON CRURAL HERNIA. The form of the sac in crural hernia differs from that of the inguinal; the shape of the latter is pyriform, but the fundus of the crural bears a very large proportion to its orifice, and the form of the sac, when inflated and dried, is generally that of the follow- ing outline. The orifice of the sac is surrounded by a fascia or cellular mem- brane, much condensed by an adhesive process which forms with the fascia below a complete bag, out of which the hernia may be drawn and the bag left behind perfect. Between the orifice of the hernial sac and the tuberosity of the pubes is situated the insertion of the external oblique muscle into the linea ileo pec- tinea, and ligament of the pubes. Behind it, is the os pubis, covered by its ligament and fascia iliaca; anterior to it, is the beginning of the posterior edge of the crural arch ; and below this, the lunated edge of the fascia lata, and part of the crural sheath ; and on its outer side is a thin process of fascia, which passes between it and the iliac vein. Indeed, it is according to the size of the hernia that there is more or less remaining of the original fascia, which extends from the insertion of the external oblique to the iliac vein. If the hernia is small, a process of this fascia remains round the orifice of the sac ; but if it is large, the orifice occupies the whole space between tbe insertion of the external oblique and the crural vein, excepting that a thin portion of fascia still remains between the vein and the sac. This vein runs on the outer side of the hernial sac, about half an inch from the centre of its orifice, and half an inch beyond the vein ; and exterior to it is the centre of the external iliac artery ; the epigastric artery arises from the external iliac, about three quarters of an inch from the centre of the sac, and as it passes forwards and upwards, it approaches this point about a quarter of an inch nearer. The general distances of the different parts are as follows. MALE. From the symphysis pubis to the centre of the orifice of the sac, two inches.