OF STRAINS. 235 but after a short time, as the effused blood coagulates it becomes much discoloured. When inflammation has been set up, and given rise to effusion of fibrin, a sensation of crepitus is experienced on examining the injured part, which might, by an ignorant surgeon, be mistaken for the crepitus of fractured bone; but it never gives that distinct grating feeling which occurs from the rubbing of one portion of broken bone upon another. Immediately after the receipt of the injury, the ordinary mo- tions of the joints can be readily performed; but as the swelling takes place, these motions become much impeded, and ultimately cannot be performed without producing acute pain, and increasing the mischief. In the treatment of these cases, the first object is to arrest the haemorrhage from the lacerated vessels, and then to prevent the oc- currence of severe inflammation ; afterwards to promote the ab- sorption of the effused matter, and subsequently to restore the motions of the injured parts. In the first instance, the application of cold by means of evapo- rating lotions, and attention to the position of the limb, will effect much in arresting the effusion, and preventing acute inflammation. The position should be such as to relax those muscles which act on the injured tendons, and at the same time such as will favour the return of blood to the heart. Should the pain and tumefaction increase in spite of these means, leeches should be freely employed over the seat of mischief, and the bleeding encouraged by tepid applications; purgatives should also be administered; and in very robust persons, when the injury is extensive, general blood-letting, and other constitutional remedies must be had recourse to. When the inflammation is subdued, and the patient is free from pain, still the surgeon has much to do in effecting the absorption of the effused matter, and this he should be careful to remove, as it is from neglecting this stage of the injury that other and more Sensation of crepitus. Motion of joint destroyed. Treatment. Cold and posi- tion. Bleeding. After effects.