DISLOCATIONS OF TIIE ANCLE-JOINT. 388 Exfoliation. Deformity. Case. hence there arose an absolute necessity to remove the limb for the preservation of his life. 9. A necessity for Amputation may also be produced by Exfolia- tions of Portions of Bone, which, While locked in the surrounding parts of the bone, are incapa- ble of becoming separated, and thus keep up a state of continued irritation. My friend, Mr. Hammick, had the kindness to send me a specimen of this kind, which he was obliged to amputate, j The loose portion of bone was seated between the lower extremity of the tibia and fibula, and reached to the ancle joint; both the bones had been broken, and had become re-united, and the uniting medium had inclosed and incarcerated the dead portion of bone. It is probable, from the appearance of the parts, that this portion of bone never would have been able to escape from the place in which it was locked. 10. Excessive Deformity of the Foot, Will also give rise to a necessity for amputation; and this de- formity will take place in three directions. First, when the foot is suffered to turn outwards, whilst the leg is placed upon the heel in the dislocation inwards. Secondly, when it is turned inwards; and, thirdly, when the foot remains pointed. The first is best op- posed by placing the leg upon its outer side, when that is compa- tible with the treatment of the wound; in the second case, it is best to keep the foot on the heel; and in both cases, splints having a foot-piece both on the inner and outer side of the foot, must be applied ; the third requires similar splints, and a tape as a stirrup, placed under the foot, and fastened to the splint on the fore and middle part of the leg to keep the foot supported. The splints should be so padded as to preserve it in its proper direc- tion. The following case from Mr. Norman, of Bath, shews the neces- sity for amputation, when great deformity is permitted to occur. I was sent for to Bradford, some years since, to amputate a leg