347 DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. performed. The symptoms of constitutional irritation which fol- lowed the operation became extremely severe, and being delirious on the 31st, Mr. Oliver applied leeches to his temples, a blister under the occiput, and gave the saline medicine with the camphor, and the pulv. ipec. comp. On the following day I was sent for, but being absent from London, my valued friend, Mr. Cline, visited him, and ordered him tine. opii. gtt. v.—Pulv. castor, gr. x.— Mist, camphor. ^iss. m.—Ft- haustus 4ta quaque hora sumendus. Soon after the second draught was administered he fell asleep, and after several hours’ repose awoke perfectly sensible. He gradually recovered, and left Brentford on the 25th of October, with a small wound still remaining on the stump. I brought home the limb, and carefully dissected it. Under the Dislocation, skin there was great extravasation of blood in the cellular mem- brane surrounding the knee; the vastus internus muscle had a large aperture torn in it just above its insertion into the patella; the tibia projected forwards; and the patella was drawn to the outer side of the knee, being no longer in a line with the tubercle of the tibia. Looking at the joint posteriorly, both heads of the gastrocnemius externus muscle were lacerated; the capsular liga- ment was so completely torn, posteriorly, that both the condyles of the os femoris were seen projecting through the laceration in the gastrocnemius; neither the sciatic nerve, the popliteal ar- tery and vein, the lateral, nor the crucial ligaments, were rup- i tured. It is probable that all compound dislocations of the knee-joint will require a similar practice, unless the wound be so extremely small as to admit readily of its immediate closure and adhesion. DISLOCATION OF THE KNEE FROM ULCERATION. In the progress of chronic diseases of the joints, inflammation Ligament ulcer- beginning in the synovial membrane, and proceeding to ulcerate dttli' the articular cartilages and bone, at length affect the capsular ligament, and sometimes even the peculiar ligaments of the joints; the bones thus becoming unconnected, the muscles irritated by