PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. 287 wards and backwards, the head of the bone is described as being received still into the ischiatic notch; but this notch is, in the natural position of the pelvis, above the level of the line drawn through the middle of the acetabulum; and hence it is, that the leg becomes, not shorter, but longer, when the bone is dis- 1 located into the ischiatic notch. The following case I received from Mr. Rogers, a very in- | telligent surgeon at Manningtree. The kind manner in which he has expressed himself, may savour a little of vanity ; but I shall readily suffer this imputation, and not shrink from avowing the satisfaction which I feel, whenever my endeavours have in any degree conduced to the advantage of my professional brethren, or to the benefit of those who may be placed under i their care. DISLOCATION OF THE THIGH INTO THE ISCHIATIC NOTCH. William Dawson, aged thirty-four, on the 15th of August, 1818, Case, while spending his harvest home with several of his companions, was thrown down and trod upon. Upon extricating himself and endeavouring to rise, he found that some serious injury to his | right thigh rendered him incapable of standing: in this state he was I dragged by his associates for many hundred yards into a stable, where he lay till the next morning. I then saw him lying upon a mattress, with the hip and thigh on the right side prodi- giously swollen and painful ; and was particularly struck with the appearance of the knee and foot on the same side, which were - very much turned inwards, but the limb was scarcely shortened. I ordered him to be carefully conveyed home upon a shutter, sup- ported by six men, a distance of about half a mile. From the im- mense swelling and general enlargement of the whole thigh, and of the soft parts around the pelvis, it was impossible to ascertain exactly the state of the injury; but I was fully impressed there was some unusual dislocation of the head of the thigh-bone. He was accordingly bled, both by general and topical means, and ’mollient poultices applied to the whole of the swollen parts;