114 OF INGUINAL HERNIA IN THE FEMALE. Operation. Case. After-treatment. The hair having been removed from the surface of the tumour, and the patient being placed in tbe same position that I directed the male should be under similar circumstances, the surgeon should make an incision through the integument, commencing a little above the external abdominal ring, and terminating at the lower part of tbe swelling. This exposes the fascia covering the hernial sac, which should next be carefully divided to the extent of the first incision. The sac, being thus laid bare, should first be cautiously punctured as before mentioned, and then should be further opened upon the director. The portion of the hernial sac below the external abdominal i ring may perhaps contain only a quantity of the dark serum usually found; in which case the operator must introduce his finger into that part of the sac which is in the inguinal canal, and there he will feel the portion of intestine or omentum which is strangulated. He should then slit up the canal and sac towards the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, so as to expose the strangulated parts; and, ascertaining the seat of stricture, he should pass a small director under it, and carrying the hernia knife upon the director, the stricture should be divided upwards, or upwards and outwards, after which the protruded parts are to be l returned, if they be not in a state of gangrene. The last case of inguinal hernia in the female, in which I had an opportunity of witnessing the operation, was under the care of Mr. Forster, in Guy’s Hospital. Upon opening the sac below the external ring, a quantity of fluid escaped, but there was not any appearance of intestine or omentum. However, upon passing the finger into the sac, through the external ring, a portion of intestine could be distinctly felt, which Mr. Forster subsequently exposed, by slitting up the in- guinal canal. The stricture, which was seated at the internal ring, was divided upon a director in the usual manner, and the patient did extremely well. The after-treatment does not differ from that I have directed for the other sex.