29 ON INFLAMMATION. mation of the skin succeeds, frequently attended with incrustations, a serous discharge, and sometimes with a watery secretion into the cellular tissue. ' Irritable persons are much more predisposed to inflammation than Predisposing causes. others, and when it occurs in them it is of a more dangerous nature than in those who are not irritable. Thus in fevers, when the con- stitution has been much weakened, the parts on w-hich the body has been resting become inflamed, and quickly mortify. But in fractures, where the system is healthy and strong, although the patient remain many weeks in bed, no such effects are produced. Where there is great irritation, inflammation is always dangerous: and the appli- cation of a blister to the chest, for the removal of a cough after measles, frequently, in this town, destroys it by bringing on morti- fication. Mercury, in like manner, by rendering the body irritable, disposes it to inflammation; and it is wrong to operate on a patient immediately after a mercurial course, on account of this inflam- matory tendency. The exciting causes of inflammation are whatever produces an Exciting . causes. unnatural state of the part, calling upon nature for its reparation, which she effects by the process of inflammation, as bruises, warts, pressure, extraneous substances, &c. &c. The manner in which nature repairs these injuries will be more fully explained hereafter. Proximate causes of Inflammation.—With regard to these Proximate causes. there has been, and still is, much difference of opinion. Boer- haave’s opinion, of an obstruction in the smaller vessels, arising from the thickness of the blood, is false—for instead of being- thicker, it is absolutely thinner. Cullen’s theory, of spasm in the extreme vessels, is equally erroneous. These are the results of opinion not founded upon observation. We should observe first, and think afterwards. The true proximate causes of inflammation appear to be an increase of action in the vessels of the part, and an increase in the size of the vessels themselves. These phenomena are well demonstrated by the following experiment; viz., Stretch Experiment. the web of a frog’s foot, and place it under a good microscope, put on it the smallest drop of nitric acid, or prick a spot ivith a pin: you