474 DISLOCATIONS OF THE FINGERS AND TOES. Diagnostic marks of this accident. The second phalanx being thrown forwards towards the thecae, and the first backwards, I could not learn if the ligaments had been torn, as the dislocation had existed for a length of time, and the liga- ment, if it had ever been lacerated, was then united ; the extensor tendon was very much stretched over the end of the first phalanx. This accident may be readily distinguished by the projection of the first phalanx backwards, while the head of the second may be, although less distinctly, felt under the thecae. The reduction may be effected by making extension with a slight inclination forwards to relax the flexor muscles. If the bone has not been dislocated many hours, it is easily reduced ; but if neglected at first, this can only be accomplished by a long-con- tinued extension, very steadily applied. I have seen too much mischief arise from injury to the tendons and ligaments of these joints never to recommend the division of them (which some have advised) to facilitate the reduction, when extension will not suc- ceed. The observations which I have made respecting the dislo- cation of the fingers, also apply to the toes ; of which, however, the dislocations are more difficult to reduce, from their greater shortness, and the less pliability of the joints. DISLOCATION FROM CONTRACTION OF THE TENDON. Contraction of tendon. Amputation re- quired. A toe or finger is sometimes gradually thrown out of its natural direction by a contraction of the flexor tendon and thecae, and the first and second phalanges are consequently drawn up and pro- jected against the shoe, so as to prevent the patient from being able to take his usual exercise. I have frequently seen young ladies subject to this inconvenience in the toe, and attributed it to the tightness of their shoes. It ap- pears an extremely harsh measure on the part of the surgeon to amputate a toe under such circumstances, yet it is sometimes abso- lutely necessary, as the contraction deprives the person of exercise, and many of the enjoyments of life. In the first person whom I saw with this state of the toe, I re- fused to amputate, fearful of tetanus being produced by the