20G WOUNDS OF THE STOMACH. action. The other complaint, which I apprehend to have originated fomentations were continued externally, and his feet and hands were frequently bathed in warm milk and water. He voided his urine regularly, and in about the proportion of three pints in the twenty-four hours, though it sometimes considerably exceeded this quantity, and continued to deposit a great deal of sediment. ' A little of the sal: cathart: amar: was occasionally added to the clysters in order to stimulate and cleanse the intestines; after the fourth day, however, there was scarcely any faeculent matter dis- charged, but only a small quantity of viscid bile. “On the 10th day from the time of his being wounded, he appeared to be very sensibly relieved; his thirst and febrile symp- toms were much abated, and his pulse was regular, and about ninety. As he was in good spirits, and expressed a wish that he might be allowed to swallow something, I procured some calf’s-foot jelly, made lukewarm, of which he ate half a pint, without feeling any bad consequences. The only remarkable circumstance that attended the first time of his swallowing, was, that it occasioned frequent eructations, and a great discharge of air; but this, ac- cording to his own account, produced rather a grateful sensation than otherwise. Next day he was allowed some new milk for breakfast, and some chicken broth for dinner. The nutritious J clysters were continued, however, till the 16th day, though less frequently than before. From that period, for about a fortnight, he lived wholly on bread and milk, and light broth. He was then allowed chicken, veal, and other meats easy of digestion. The ex- ternal wound had been healed for some time, and he recovered his strength very gradually. The only inconvenience he suffered was from costiveness, and a sense of soreness and stricture which extended from the external wound towards the middle of the abdo- men. This was particularly felt after a violent expiration, or any sudden extension of the body, when, to use his own expression, his side was drawn inwards and upwards. The costiveness was , obviated by mild laxatives and gently stimulating clysters, and went off entirely as the intestines recovered their true and natural