INGUINAL CANAL. 107 The patient had been the subject of hernia on the right side, for Case. join the upper aperture. Part of the cremaster muscle is also bund covering the lower part of the sac. The sac is to be opened with the usual precautions, and the stricture, which will be found [it the upper orifice, is to be carefully divided upwards, by first S passing a small director under it, and then introducing the hernia <nife upon the director. [The return of the hernial sac into the cavity of the abdomen has been recommended in this form of hernia; but it does not appear 'that any advantage is gained by it, independent, in many cases, of I the difficulty of effecting it. Mr. Weld, junior, surgeon, at Romford, having occasion to per- form an operation upon a woman, on account of the strangulation of a hernia of this kind, after liberating the stricture, returned the sac into the abdomen. The woman recovered, but some time after became the subject of hernia at the same spot, as she would not wear a truss after the operation. I am indebted to my friend Mr. Thomas Blizard, for the follow- ing curious and interesting case of hernia, descending behind the (spermatic cord, which had been accompanied with hydrocele, in the tunica vaginalis of the same side. isix years, for which he had worn a truss; and from his own ac- count a hydrocele had formed on each side, two years previous to his coming under the care of Mr. Blizard; but that on the right side had gradually disappeared, leaving the testis wasted and drawn up to the groin. The hernia becoming strangulated, and not yielding to the usual I means employed for reducing it, Mr. Blizard performed the operation about twenty-four hours after the commencement of the symptoms. Having laid bare what he thought was the hernial sac, he punctured it, and then freely opened it upon the director. It extended through the external ring, into the inguinal canal, which Mr. Blizard in part cut open, in order to make the necessary i examination of what he conceived to be the hernial sac; this, how- Herniul sac re- turned. Case.