2.58 ON TIIE CURE OF HYDROCELE. After treat- ment. If inflamma- tion do not come on. Should inflam- mation come on. of nerves arises, and lastly, at the neck of the bladder, in the course of the vas deferens. The pain will be greater or less in proportion as the patient is more or less irritable. It is to be observed, however, that the degree of subsequent inflammation is generally in the inverse ratio of the pain suffered at the time of the injection. If a man lies tranquilly on the table, and tells you that he does not feel much pain, he will in general have a considerable degree of inflammation the next day. On the other hand, when much pain is felt, it is generally the effect of nervous irritability, and little inflammation follows it. I have been under the necessity of bleeding and giving large quantities of opium to a patient, in consequence of the severity of the pain produced by injection, and yet no inflammation was produced. You may say that this was in consequence of the bleeding; but this is not the case; the pain arises from irritation in the nervous, rather than the vascular system, and inflammation does not readily follow it. When you have suffered the fluid to remain five minutes, and withdrawn the instrument, you need not apply any thing to the part, but tell the patient to walk about as usual in the course of the day if he feels but little pain. If he should feel much pain, tell him to lie down, take his dinner that day, and his glass of wine after it, if he has been in the habit of doing so. After a few hours have elapsed, inflammation will probably come on. Above all, tell your patients to come the next day, that you may see whether the inflammation, which is necessary for the cure of hydrocele has been produced; if it has not, you must not despair of producing it. Take the part in your hand, and touch it here and there until the patient feels a good deal of uneasiness. Then desire him to take a long walk, and to take an additional quantity of wine after dinner. In this way you will generally succeed in producing such a degree of inflammation as will be sufficient to effect a cure. It sometimes happens, however, in constitutions which have a great disposition to inflammation, that the injection will act so violently as to produce suppuration. When there is danger of this,