4(J9 DISLOCATIONS OF THE WRIST-JOINT. maintain a constant extension upon it, opposing the action of the pronator quadratus muscle, and keeping the broken end of the bone constantly in its place.” COMPOUND DISLOCATION OF THE ULNA, WITH FRACTURE OF THE RADIUS. This is a very serious accident when the radius is much com- Often a very minuted; but recovery proceeds very well when the radius is serious accident, broken without being shattered. I saw a case of this injury in Hertfordshire, in which the man met with the accident by falling upon the back of his hand, and the ulna protruded an inch and a half through the integuments. The bone was immediately reduced and bandaged; the wound healed by the adhesive process, and the man recovered the perfect use of his limb. A man was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital, under the care Case, of Mr. Chandler. I now forget in what manner the accident had happened, but the ulna projected through the integuments at the back of the carpus: and a compound fracture of the radius, with great comminution of the bone, was produced. The ulna was at first replaced, but immediately resumed its dislocated position on the back of the wrist, although it did not again protrude through the skin. The hand and fore arm were placed in a poultice, and were ordered to be fomented twice a day. A copious suppuration ensued, attended with violent constitutional irritation; and Mr. Chandler, in order to save the patient’s life, after a lapse of five weeks, amputated the limb. On dissection, I found the ulna dislocated backwards, and its Dissection, extremity just drawn within the opening of the integuments, through which it had protruded. The radius was broken into se- veral pieces, some of which being loose, were necessarily a great source of irritation ; the tendons and muscles were some of them lacerated, as the extensor carpi radialis longior, and the extensors of the thumb. In a similar case, it would be proper, when loose pieces of bone Treatment, can be felt at the extremity of the radius, that the wound should