32 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. Carditis and Pneumonia. Necessary precaution for depletion. The hardest pulse that I ever met with was in a person who had inflammation of the heart; in inflammation of the lungs and of the brain the pulse is hard, but not to be compared to this. The pulse, however, is not always hard when inflammation attacks important parts. The contrary is sometimes the fact; for when the stomach or intestines is thus affected, the pulse is scarcely discoverable. Persons unacquainted with the nature of this fact, are frightened at seeing a man frequently bled, who has, for example, strangulated hernia, and will often exclaim, “ Pray don’t bleed him any more, see how pale he is, and his pulse is almost gone.” Well, then, recollect, that in inflammations of the abdominal viscera the pulse is feeble ; but inflammation of the liver, however, is an exception to this rule. Quickness of pulse is not in itself a sufficient proof that bleeding is requisite, but when united with hardness, no additional evidence of its necessity can be wanted; therefore, never bleed where there is a quick pulse, unless at the same time it be a hard one. The indication for a repetition of blood-letting is said to be a buffy state of the blood, but your decision must not be governed by this appearance, you must still have a hard pulse. When blood is cupped it is said to be a proof of strength, and that bleeding should be repeated; the following case, however, will show, that even a cupped state of the blood and buffiness conjoined, are not sufficient evidence to warrant a conclusion that venesection may be repeated. A man at Guy’s Hospital, in the last state of scurvy, and whose blood-vessels were so weak, that a very slight pressure upon the skin produced ecchymosis, whose gums bled frequently, and whose pulse was exceedingly feeble and quick, had taken from his arm, at my request, a very small quantity of blood, by way of experiment; after standing for a few hours, it became not only buffy, but exceed- ingly cupped. When, therefore, you employ bleeding, it may be of importance to you to keep this experiment in your remembrance. The quantity of blood which should be drawn at a time, in in- flammation, must depend entirely on the severity of the complaint. The proportion of blood, compared with the solids, which can be Quantity.