485 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. found ready to make his beautiful anatomical collection useful to the profession. Master , a fine youth, aged twelve years, in June 1814, Case. was swinging in a heavy wooden swing, and, in just commencing the motion forwards, was caught by a line which had got under his chin, by which accident his head and the whole of the cervical vertebrae were violently strained; as however, the line slipped im- mediately off, he thought no more of it. Subsequently to the accident, for some months, he was not aware of any pain or incon- venience, but his school-fellows observed that he was less active than usual: instead of filling up his time by play, he would be lying on the school forms, or leaning on a stile or gate when in the fields. They were always teasing him on this account; and at last he was persuaded that he was weaker than he used to be. From this time he continued to decline both in strength and power. About the middle of May following, he came to London. His complaints were occasional pains in the head, which were more severe and frequent about the back of his neck (where a blister had been applied without relief) and down his back. The muscles at the back of the head and neck were stiff, indurated, and very tender to external pressure. He felt pain in moving his head or neck in any direction : added to these symptoms, there was a great deficiency in the voluntary powers of motion, especially in the limbs. May 18th. Two setons were made in the neck; and he was ordered various medicines, none of which proved useful. May 29th. His complaints and the paralytic affection of his limbs were getting much worse; added to which he felt a most vehement hot burning pain in the small of his back. 1 his, by the next day, was succeeded by a sense of extreme coldness in the same part. Some time after, the same pain occurred higher up in the back, and then disappeared. Pulse and heat natural. June 3d. A consultation of Dr. Baillie, Dr. Pemberton, Mr. A. Cooper and Mr. Heaviside was held, and the application of mercury was determined on. I he pil. hydr. was taken for a few