205 WOUNDS OF THE STOMACH. lie was at the point of death. A clergyman had been sent for at the same time to perform the last offices. The nurse informed me, that, whilst supported in bed to wash his mouth, he had been seized with a violent retching, accompanied with convulsions of the chest, but that nothing had been discharged from his stomach, except a small quantity of bloody fluid. When I saw him, the spasms still continued; his forehead and breast were covered with a cold sweat; his pulse was low and intermitted, so that it could only be felt at intervals; and his strength seemed to be quite ex- hausted. Warm fomentations were immediately applied to the region of the stomach ; and, as there was always some of the veal broth kept in readiness, I threw up about fourteen ounces of it, with Jij of the thebaic tincture. The violence of the symptoms was soon moderated, and he appeared very languid, and showed a disposition to sleep. “ When I saw him about four hours afterwards, I was told that he had enjoyed some rest. His pulse was now regular, but small and quick; he was very weak, and just able to inform me, that, in washing his mouth, he had accidentally swallowed some of the liquor, and that this had thrown his stomach into violent action. About one pint of the broth was now injected without any addition. This was likewise retained, and repeated at intervals of five or six hours. He now made water frequently, which, upon standing, deposited a considerable quantity of sediment, of a light brick, or straw colour. “ April 4. The hiccough, retching, and other unfavourable symp- toms, were now entirely gone; but he still complained of a fixed pain in his stomach, accompanied with a sensation of heat, and of a soreness of the injured side, extending from the wound toward the middle of the abdomen. He was likewise troubled with thirst; his pulse was small, and about 110. The external wound had now begun to yield a discharge of good matter. “ The same mode of treatment was continued, and the symptoms became daily more favourable. The broth was administered in clysters, to the amount of two quarts, or five pints a day. The