453 OF THE OPERATION OF PARACENTESIS. “You may do her up;” by which he meant, they might apply the bandages; and he added. “This, gentlemen, is an operation which you probably never saw before, and which most likely you may never see again. This is what we call the operation of dry tapping.” Before performing this operation, the patient should be placed Preparatory upon an elevated seat with the abdomen bare, a sheet is to be P°sltlon- doubled to about a foot in breadth, and is to be passed around the body at the upper part of the abdomen, and the ends being crossed at the back, are to be held by assistants ; but instead of doing this, II frequently suffer my patient to remain in the horizontal posture in bed, turning only to the side ; by this plan that faintness is prevented, which usually attends the escape of the water if the patient be in the sitting position; a pail is required to catch the water in the first instance, and a basin afterwards. The necessary instruments are a trocar and canula, or a lancet, with a canula shut at its end like a catheter, and with holes on its sides equal in diameter to the canal of the canula. If it be ovarian dropsy, and the cyst possesses considerable thick- a long trocar ness, it is very desirable that the surgeon should be provided with nece.5Sa*'y m 7 J o x ovarian dropsy a trocar and canula of an inch more than the usual length, as I once operated upon a patient of Dr. De Vallangin, in whom I was i obliged to employ a much longer trocar and canula, being unable to reach the cavity of the cyst wfith an instrument of the common length. The place at which the operation is performed w7as changed by The proper Mr. Cline from mid-way between the umbilicus and anterior fn^roduetion superior spinous process of the ilium on the left side to one inch °f the trocar, below the umbilicus ; and his reason for this change was, that in the spread of the abdominal muscles from the pressure of the water, the epigastric artery is brought into a situation of risk of being wounded by the trocar, a circumstance which did happen to Mr. Cline. He was tapping a person in St. Thomas’s Hospital, Case, and he saw florid blood issue through the canula; the quantity I gradually increased as the -water flowed ; and as the patient was becoming faint, he withdrew the canula and closed the wound, but