35 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. condensed mass, and was daily discharged; this, in a great measure, accounts for the absence of irritative fever. That it is from the-check to the secretions that irritative fever irritative fever arises, is proved by what happens in children during dentition. They are sometimes put to bed quite well, but in the morning half ti°n. of the body is paralysed from the irritation of a tooth. The secre- tion from the intestines stops, fever is excited, which produces a hot and dry skin; but restore these secretions, by the administration of purgatives and antimonials, and the irritative fever soon sub- sides, although the paralysis will sometimes continue, with little alteration, for life. There is another mode in which purgatives produce a beneficial Purgatives are effect in inflammation, that of irritating the intestines. Blood istants.61"' determined to them, and is therefore drawn from the part inflamed, upon the principle that two increased actions are with difficulty kept up in the body at the same time. It is of no use to act on the intestines in inflammation, without Action on the Liver. also exciting the liver; therefore, give calomel with your saline medicines, but do not give salines alone; the best plan is to give calomel at night, and a saline in the morning. An excellent aperient for adults is one grain of calomel, with four of cathartic extract; or two of blue pill, with three of cathartic extract. Castor oil may also be recommended ; and, as another safe opening medi- cine, you may prescribe infusion of senna, with Epsom salts. In children, calomel, with rhubarb, scammony, or antimony, may be ordered as aperients; and in addition to these means, the use of injections, and the warm bath, are the best means of restoring the secretions of the digestive organs. An old Scotch physician, for whom I had a great respect, and Anecdote, whom I frequently met in the city, used to say to me, as we were about to enter our patient’s room together, “ Weel, Mister Cooper, we ha’ only twa things to keep in mind, and they’ll serve us for here and hereafter; one is auways to ha’ the fear o’ the Lord before our e’en, that ’ll do for hereafter; and the t’ other is to keep boo’els auways open, and that ’ll do for here.’’ ' d 2 our