291 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. part’s ligament, so as to penetrate between it and the pubes. The head and neck of the bone were thrown into a position under the iliacus interims and psoas muscles ; the tendons of which, in pass- ing to their insertions over the neck of the bone, were elevated by it, and put on the stretch. The crural nerve passed on the fore part of the neck of the bone upon the iliacus interims and psoas i muscles. The head and neck of the thigh-bone were flattened, and much changed in their form. Upon the pubes a new aceta- bulum was formed for the neck of the thigh-bone, the head of the bone being above the level of the pubes. The new acetabulum I extended upon each side of the neck of the bone, so as to lock it laterally upon the pubes. Poupart’s ligament confines it on the fore part; on the inner side of the neck of the bone passed the artery and vein, so that the head of the bone was seated between ■ the crural sheath and the anterior and inferior spinous process of i the ilium. This accident might, by an inattentive observer, be mistaken for Distinguished a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone ; but the head of the bone felt upon the pubes will decide its nature. In the reduction of this dislocation, the patient is to be placed Reduction, on his side on a table; a girth is to be carried between the pu- dendum and inner part of the thigh, and fixed in a staple a little before the line of the body. The pulleys are to be fixed above the knee, as in the dislocation upwards, and then the extension is to be made in a line behind the axis of the body, the thigh-bone being drawn backwards. After this extension has been for some time continued, a napkin is to be placed under the upper part of the ;high, and an assistant should press with one hand on the pelvis, ind lift the head of the bone, by means of the napkin, over the jubes and edge of the acetabulum. The following case was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital, inder the care of Mr. Tyrrell. Charles Pugh, aged fifty-five, a cooper, about the middle size, Case. >n the evening of the 23d of January, while standing at the corner >f a street was struck on the back part of the right hip by the