2G0 DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. Relaxation of the stronger muscles. Whether the extension should be applied to the dislocated bone. Influence of the mind. In dislocation of the hip-joint, pulleys should always be em- ployed ; and in those dislocations of the shoulder, which have long remained unreduced, they should also be resorted to. I do not mean to doubt the possibility of reducing dislocations of the hip by the aid of men only, but to point out the inferiority of this mode to the mechanical means. The employment of pulleys in dislocations, is not a modern practice: Ambrose Pare frequently had recourse to them, and good practical surgeons have used them since his time :—most waiters on surgery have also mentioned their use, but they have not duly appreciated them. Mr. Cline, whose I professional judgment every one must acknowledge, always strongly recommended them. During the attempt to reduce luxations, the surgeon should en- deavour to obtain a relaxation of the stronger opposing muscles. I The limb should therefore be kept in a position between flexion and extension, as nearly as that medium can be obtained. Who has not seen, in the attempt to reduce a compound fracture in the extended position of a limb, the bone, which could not be brought into apposition under the most violent efforts, quickly replaced by an intelligent surgeon, who has directed the limb to be bent, and the muscles to be placed in a comparative state of relaxation ? y f A difference of opinion prevails, whether it is best to apply the extension on the dislocated bone, or on the limb below. M. Boyer, who has long taken the lead in surgery in Paris, prefers the latter mode. As far as I have had an opportunity of observing, it is j generally best to apply the extension to the bone which is dislo- cated. There are, however, exceptions to this rule in the disloca- tion of the shoulder, which I generally reduce by placing the heel in the axilla, and by drawing the arm at the w’rist in a line with the side of the body. In the reduction of dislocations, great advantage is derived from attending to the patient’s mind ; the muscles opposing the efforts of the surgeon, by acting in obedience to the will, may be made to desist from that action by directing the mind to other muscles. Several years since, a surgeon in Blackfriars’ Road, asked me to