262 SCROTUM. Veins of the scrotum. origin of the external epigastric artery. The pudic divides into two branches:—the first passes to the upper part of the scrotum, and crosses the spermatic cord, at which part it sends branches to the fore-part of the scrotum, after which it supplies the skin of the penis and pubis; this artery is necessarily divided in the operation for castration and strangulated hernia. The second branch of the external pudic descends upon the side of the scrotum, and supplies its lateral portion with vessels. The second artery of the scrotum is the perineal, which proceeds from the internal pudic artery; which latter vessel, after passing out of the pelvis, near the sciatic nerve, at the edge of the pyriformis, and at the lower part of the ischiatic notch, is continued to the inner side of the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium; and after having given oft its external hemorrhoidal artery to the anus, it sends its perineal branch forwards between the bulb and crus penis. The perineal artery passes upon the septum scroti, supplying it with blood-vessels, and is continued forwards to the raphe where it anastamoses with the external pudic. In its course it sends vessels to the accelerator urinae and transversus perinei. The scrotal artery of the epigastric descends from the epigastric soon after its origin. It first sends a branch down upon the spermatic cord, which is distributed to the cremaster muscle; and then a larger branch descends upon the side of the symphysis pubis to the skin and fat of the pubis; it next anastamoses with the external pudic artery, and descends to the inner and upper part of the thigh, and to the back- part of the scrotum, anastamosing there with the perineal and external pudic arteries. The veins of the scrotum return their blood by the side of their corresponding arteries: the external pudic vein passes into the femoral vein at the groin, the perineal vein into the internal pudic vein, and the veins at the back of the scrotum into the epigastric vein. The skin of the scrotum is so thin, that the veins may be seen through it. The absorbent vessels of the scrotum are large and numerous: they pass into the glands of the groin below Poupart’s ligament; so Absorbents.