FEMORAL HERNIA. 135 ascertain if the passage to the abdomen be free, before he attempts i to return the protruded parts, for should a second stricture exist, he may rupture the protruded intestine in the violence he must em- ploy in endeavouring to return it. In dividing the inner stricture, it has been recommended to cut | in the direction of Gimbernat’s ligament, inwards towards the pubes; but as the stricture is not occasioned by this ligament, there cannot i be any necessity for dividing it; I have known Gimbernat’s liga- ment divided, from an idea that it formed the stricture, but the ! stricture still remained at the orifice of the fascia propria, or in the mouth of the sac itself, and the patient died *. Great caution is requisite in dividing the stricture, if the protru- sion be entirely intestinal, and the operator should not introduce the knife, until the intestine has been carefully placed out of danger by an assistant. Sometime ago, a case occurred in one of the Borough hospitals, in which the intestine was wounded, when the operator was divid- ing the stricture, which he did inwards, towards Gimbernat’s liga- ment ; feculent matter was extravasated into the cavity of the ab- j domen, and the patient died. On examining the parts after death, [ two openings were found in the intestine, close to the mouth of the sac. The treatment I have directed as proper in inguinal hernia, when the protruded parts adhere to the sac, or when the intestine or omentum are gangrenous, is also proper under similar circum- stances in femoral hernia. After the operation, the same mode of closing the wound, and Direction of division. Great caution necessary. Case. Adhesions. After-treatment. * It is curious, that Gimbernat’s ligament should ever have been supposed to be the seat of stricture, as it exists only upon the inner side of the mouth of the hernial sac, and therefore could not influence the outer portion. If stran- | gulated femoral hernia be examined in the dead body, and Gimbernat’s liga- ment be cut through, the hernia is not liberated by such a division, for the 1 orifice of the fascia propria, or the neck of the sac itself, still girt the viscera as much as ever.