54 CAUSES OF HERNIA. From habitual costiveness. From urethral stricture. From the viscera becoming too large. From external pressure. are in the habit of lifting, and the stooping position in which they often work, will, I think, sufficiently account for this circumstance. Persons who suffer under habitual costiveness, are not only subject to hernia, but have the symptoms of strangulation often brought on whilst at stool, owing to the strong pressure made on the abdominal muscles during the difficult expulsion of faeces. Hence it is right to caution persons subject to hernia to avoid every cause of constipation. Strictures in the urethra appear to be a very frequent cause of this disease, as the difficulty in passing urine must necessarily call for more powerful action of the abdominal muscles. In the body of a man who had a stone in the urethra, which I opened with Mr. Weston, surgeon in Shoreditch, we found several hernial sacs. A man was lately in the accident ward of Guy’s Hospital, who had an inguinal hernia appear soon after he began to labour under dis- ury from enlarged prostate gland. There are causes of this disease that principally affect the viscera, and in which the abdominal muscles may be said to be nearly passive. Tlius the viscera become too large for the ca- vity of the belly in an extreme degree of obesity, which loads the omentum and mesentery with fat, and they are compelled to protrude through any opening that presents itself. If the fatness comes on very rapidly, it seldom fails to produce this disease, as the abdominal muscles cannot immediately accommo- date themselves to the enlargement of the belly. The same effect is produced by constant external pressure, which tends to diminish the cavity of the abdomen, the size of its contents remaining the same. It is thus that hernia is brought on by wearing the breeches very tight about the waist, which pinch up the belly, and do not leave sufficient room for the variations that occur in the size of the viscera after taking food, or from ex- ertions of different kinds. Mechanics who are in the habit of using the implements of their trade against their abdomen, bring on the complaint by pressing the viscera to the inguinal regions.