464 DISLOCATIONS OF THE WRIST-JOINT. Mode in which these accidents happen. Appearance. Sprains. Reduction. The first accident, namely, the dislocation of both bones, is not of very frequent occurrence ; but when it does happen, the bones are thrown either backwards or forwards, according to the direc- tion in which the force is applied. If the person in falling puts out his hand to save himself, and falls upon the palm, a dislocation is produced, the radius and ulna are forced forwards upon the ligamentum carpi annulare, and the carpal bones are thrown back- wards. The appearances of this dislocation are these :—A considerable swelling is produced by the radius and ulna, on the fore part of the wrist, with a similar protuberance upon the back of the wrist by the carpus, with a depression above it; the hand is bent back, being no longer in the line with the fore arm. In the dislocation of the radius and ulna backwards, the person falls upon the back of the hand, the radius and ulna are thrown upon the posterior part of the carpus, and the carpus itself is forced under the flexor tendons, which pass behind the ligamentum carpi annulare: but in each of these cases, two swellings are produced, one by the radius and ulna, and the other by the bones of the car- pus, according to the direction in which they are thrown; and these become the diagnostic signs of the accident. Severe falls upon the palm of the hand will produce sprains of the tendons on the fore part of the wrist, and occasion a very con- siderable swelling of the flexor tendons, opposite the wrist-joint. This accident assumes the appearance of dislocation, but may always be distinguished from it by the existence of one swelling only, which does not appear immediately after the injury is re- ceived, but succeeds it gradually. And further, if the surgeon be called directly after the dislocation has happened, there is then a great flexibility of the hand, as well as distortion, and the extre- mities of the radius and ulna on one side, and of the carpal bones on the other, are easily detected. The reduction of this dislocation, in whatever form it may have occurred, is by no means difficult. The surgeon grasps the pa- tient’s hand with his right hand, supporting the fore arm with his