FRACTURES OF THE KNEE. .359 I sutures are generally objectionable, anti I never employ them if l can possibly succeed without them; but in moveable parts, in those which are unsupported, and in those through which a secre- | tion is liable to force its way, they are not only justifiable, but highly necessary. Fomentation and poultices must not be em- ployed in these cases, as they prevent the adhesive process. A compound fracture of the patella will be sometimes produced by an ulcer, as in the following case. A woman was admitted into Guy’s Hospital, in 181G, with a Case, simple and transverse fracture of the patella, which had long been united by a ligament of about three inches in extent. Ulcers were Ulceration, formed upon different parts of the body : and, unfortunately, one of these upon the integuments over the ligamental union of the i patella. It became sloughy, and extended through the new liga- ment to the joint, which it had laid open : violent constitutional ir- ritation succeeded ; a copious suppuration was produced ; and no opportunity was given of amputating the limb, for the inflamed and swollen state of the thigh forbade it. This woman died. OBLIQUE FRACTURES OF THE CONDYLES OF THE OS FEMORIS INTO THE JOINT. These cases are of rare occurrence; but when they happen it is difficult to prevent deformity, and to restore to the patient a sound and useful limb. They are known by the great swelling of the joint which ensues, by the crepitus which is felt in moving the joint, and by the deformity consequent upon them. The fracture Of either con- is sometimes of the inner, and sometimes of the outer condyle, and the bone is split down into the joint. Whether the external or internal condyle be broken, the same Treatment, treatment is required. The limb is to be placed upon a pillow in the straight position, and evaporating lotions and leeches are to be used to subdue the swelling and inflammation. When this object has been effected, a roller is to be applied around the knee, and a piece of stiff pasteboard, about sixteen inches long and sufficiently wide to extend entirely under the joint, and to pass on each side of it, so