UN THE SEAT OF THESE DISEASES. 356 More spongy than scirrhous alarm in the minds of the patients, so as to lead them to make application for surgical assistance. The medicines which I advised, and the applications which I proposed, appearing to have no influ- ence in preventing the progress of the disease, I recommended extirpation. Two of the patients recovered without any returning disease; the third, after a few months, sunk under what was believed to be hepatic disorder. I have given a plate of the appearance of one of these tumours; it is much more spongy than the true scirrhus. The vessels which it possesses are more numerous, and their diameters larger, more especially of the veins. It not only adheres to the nipple, but it proceeds from its basis. The vessels which supply it are of consider- able size, and require to be carefully secured to prevent after- haemorrhage. In neither of the cases had it contracted adhesion to the pectoral muscle; and there was therefore no difficulty in detaching it from the surrounding parts. ON THE SEAT OF THESE DISEASES. Discharge of fluid from the nipple of the infants Structure of the part. Having thus described the diseases which are placed at the basis of the nipple, I shall now proceed to point out the structure in which these complaints begin; and which the plates connected with the work will very clearly explain. A child born at the full period of gestation, whether it be male or female, is found to have, issuing from its nipple, a fluid of milky appearance, which, when alcohol is poured upon it, deposits a solid, which has the appearance of coagulated albumen. This fluid the nurses are in the habit of pressing out; as they pretend that it is liable to excite inflammation if suffered to remain. Whether this be tbe case or not, or whether the inflammation which sometimes ensues be the result of pressure and friction which the nurses employ, 1 am not able to state; but inflammation does sometimes ensue, and requires fomentation for its relief. Thirty-two years ago I first learned there was such a discharge from the nipple; and was led to examine whence it proceeded ;