204 WOUNDS OF T1IE STOMACH. possible upon the injured side, with a view to favour the dis- charge. “ On the first of April, the day after the accident, the symptoms were still very unfavourable. His pulse continued low and lan- guid, with a great prostration of strength, and a coldness of the extremities. He had had several rigours towards morning, and the spasms were sometimes very violent. He complained of ex- treme coldness over his whole body, and of a constant gnawing pain about the pit of his stomach, to which part warm fomentations were frequently applied. “ A laxative clyster was again administered, which was followed by a copious discharge ; soon after this, another clyster, consisting of fourteen ounces of veal broth, and two drachms of thebaic tinc- ture, was thrown up and retained. A similar clyster was repeated in about four hours, with the same effect. Flannels, dipped in warm milk and water, were occasionally applied to his arms and legs, and hot bricks to the soles of his feet. He made a little water twice in the course of twenty-four hours; this was highly coloured, and deposited no sediment, though kept for a consider- able time. “ April 2. He had passed a restless night, and now com- plained of intense thirst. The hiccough and spasms were less fre- quent, but he suffered much from a constant burning pain in the lower part of his stomach. His pulse was small, and beat about 120 in a minute. The fomentations were applied as usual; and 5yj of the sal: cathart: amar: were dissolved in some broth, and thrown up into the bowels as a laxative. This produced a con- siderable discharge of soft, slimy fasces, in which were several small pieces of clotted blood enveloped in mucus. After this, in the course of the day, three clysters of broth and thebaic tincture were thrown up and retained. He was desired to use the pulp of an orange occasionally, to allay his thirst, and to wash his mouth frequently with barley water acidulated with lemon juice. “ April 3. I was called to him early in the morning, and told