489 OK AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. the knee being- pushed backwards and outwards, the head of the bone is dislocated as far as the ligamentum teres will permit; this being divided, the head of the bone turns completely out of the acetabulum forwards. A last incision is made by passing the knife over the head of the bone, and behind it, so as to cut through the remaining muscles, &c. I am ready to acknowledge that this is not the quickest mode of Not 'he quickest mode. removing the limb; but securing the artery in the first instance prevents a patient, who is much reduced, from eventually sinking- in consequence of the loss of a very considerable quantity of blood. When the limb has been removed, branches of the obturator, Vessels, ischiatic, and gluteal arteries will require to be secured. The sides of the wound are to be brought together, and, if they easily meet, by adhesive plaster only; but if there be any difficulty in their coalescence, it is best to employ a suture. The same after-treatment is necessary as after other amputations. I am, however, of opinion, that in every case in which the Preferable to • i r 11 • i ii i-ii saw through amputation can be performed by sawing through the thigh-bone the trochanter. below the attachment of the capsular ligament, that it should be done in preference to opening the joint and removing the head of the bone from its socket. I have only once amputated at the hip-joint, and the patient Case, recovered, but only after excessive suppuration from the acetabulum, sloughing of portions of the cartilage, and continuance of suffering and fever, exposing him to great risk, which would have been greatly lessened, had it been possible from the state of the bone to have sawn through the os femoris at the trochanter. The removal of the dressing for the first time after an amputa- Removal of tion must depend in a great measure upon the feelings of the thl"Lllebsin8b- patient as regards the stump, and from the appearance, of the discharge. If the patient does not experience any unusual pain in the On the sixth stump, the plasters should not be disturbed for six or seven days, °* ie'enlh 2 K