375 or THE OPERATION. the same side from within to without, they are to be carried back and tied behind the neck. These bandages prevent the patient from making any movements likely to impede the operation, or occasion danger during its performance. The instruments required are, first, a sound, consisting of a solid portion of steel, curved as the urethra, about twelve inches in length; its thickness should be well proportioned to the size of the urethra. Persons often require to be sounded with their bladder full, and with it empty. I have frequently found a stone directly after the urine has been discharged, which I could not perceive when there was much urine in the bladder. It is right, therefore, to sound the patient first with his bladder full; and, if the stone cannot be felt, then to have it emptied, and sound again. On this account, it is often useful to employ a silver catheter, at first preventing the escape of the urine, and afterwards allowing it to flow through the instrument, at the same time continuing to sound. When the bladder is empty, it frequently happens, however, that the instru- ment is so confined that it cannot be moved sufficiently to strike the stone. The patient should be sounded first in the recumbent position, and if the stone be not then felt, in the erect; as the calculus, by falling upon the urethra in the latter posture, may be easily detected. I have myself sounded and not detected a stone at one time, which I have afterwards felt. I have sounded and not discovered a stone, which another surgeon has afterwards perceived. I cut a patient, and extracted thirty-seven stones from his bladder, who had been sounded and declared not to have a stone. Those who have not had experience in this disease, and have not frequently sounded patients afflicted with it, sometimes mistake the extremity of the sacrum, or the os coccygis, for a stone. The next instrument is the staff, which is somewhat similar to the sound, but rather more curved, and having a groove on its convex part; this groove should be as large as possible; first. Instruments. First the sound. State of the bladder when sounding. Position of the patient. Stone not always detected. The staff.