443 STRUCTURE OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. articular surface for the ulna is situated, which is in the form of a pulley; and above it, both anteriorly and posteriorly, is situated a deep cavity, with a thin partition intervening. On the lower extremity of the external condyle is placed an articular surface, on which the head of the radius is received. The upper extremity of the ulna forms two processes, with an articulatory surface between them, which is adapted to the pulley-like articular surface of the os humeri: both these surfaces of the ulna and humerus are covered with cartilage. The superior and posterior process of the ulna is called the olecranon, which forms the point of the elbow, and into which the triceps muscle is inserted. The ante- rior and smaller process is called the coronoid, which gives inser- tion to the brachialis internus. When the arm is extended, the point of the olecranon is received into the posterior cavity, between the condyles of the humerus ; and when it is flexed, the coronoid process passes into the anterior hollow ; so that these cavities are formed for the purpose of allowing free extension and flexion of the arm. The head of the radius is rounded, and rests upon the broad articular surface of the humerus, upon which it bends ; on its inner side it is received into an articular cavity on the radial ■side of the coronoid process of the ulna, upon which the radius rolls ; and thus all the motions of the fore-arm are performed. Immediately below its head the radius becomes smaller, and this part is called its cervix: at the distance of an inch below its head is seated a process which is called its tubercle. The ligaments which bind these bones together are the capsular, Ligaments, which is united with the condyles, and with the portion of bone Capsular, above the cavities of the os humeri; it passes over the extremity of the humerus, and is united behind to the olecranon, and to the coronoid process on the fore part of the ulna; it is also connected to the coronary ligament of the radius. This ligament posteriorly is loose and slender, but on the fore part it is of considerable strength. The coronary ligament surrounds the head of the radius : it is Coronary, connected above with the capsular ligament, and below with the