48 COUNTER-IRRITATION IN INFLAMMATION. Case. Rest, Indurations. Pressure. great, and the tongue covered with a brown fur. I found him with his legs in a tub of water; I took out one of them, and it smoked excessively; I saw there was no time to be lost, had him immediately placed upon a sofa, and contrived to rest his legs upon the end of the sofa; consequently they were raised consider- ably higher than, his body; the vessels soon began to unload them- selves, and the skin, in a short time, was evidently less red than when taken out of the water. I then applied flannels wrung out of warm water; these soon produced a very considerable perspiration, by which the cellular membrane became unloaded, the swelling much less, and the pain materially abated. He gradually recovered, and in six weeks was enabled to ride a considerable distance to market. The completest tyro in surgery ought to know, that it would be folly to attempt to cure extensive inflammation in a limb, if it were allowed to continue in a depending position. The next circumstance to be attended to in the treatment of inflammation is rest; the necessity of which must be well known to you, as all of you must have observed that exercise increases the action of the heart, and consequently, must be injurious in inflam- mation. To obtain rest for an inflamed joint is one of our grand principles in the treatment, and no good can be done without it: it is curious to observe how nature herself directs this; for where a joint is diseased, the muscles which act upon that joint have lost their power: thus, if a man has an inflammation of the wrist, and you put your hand into his and desire him to squeeze it, you find that he cannot do so, or that the attempt is exceedingly feeble. In inflammations of the joints of the lower extremities, the muscles of the part in like manner lose their vigour. Indurations frequently remain after inflammation has entirely ceased; these are to be got rid of by diminishing the circulation of the part, and producing absorption by the following methods:— Pressure has the power of exciting the action of the absorbents in an extraordinary degree ; and you may produce it either by the use of rollers or strapping.