ON SUPPURATION. 62 merely a constitutional effort towards accomplishing- the object that nature has in view. When pus is easily produced, as upon mucous surfaces, there is no rigor whatever. Local symp- When there is an attempt to produce matter, there is an unusual toms of suppu- ration. sensation of uneasiness in the part, together with a blush on the skin, easily recognized, by those acquainted with the subject, as a sure indication that pus either has, or is about to be formed. In the adhesive inflammation, the pain is an acute thrilling one; but here it is more dull, and is likewise pulsatory or throbbing. As this continues, the tumour becomes soft in the middle, but remains hard at the sides; the centre of the swelling points, as it is termed; and, upon pressing the part at this period, fluctuation will be evident. The next thing to be observed, is an effusion of serum beneath the cuticle, which separates it from the cutis; it becomes gradually distended, and then bursts, leaving the cutis exposed. Ulceration sometimes takes place on the surface of the skin, whilst the same process is going on internally, so as to facilitate the discharge of the matter; generally speaking, however, the ulcerative process is continued entirely from within. ✓ Time required. These are the common appearances produced by the process of suppurative inflammation. Pus is generally formed in from seven to fourteen days ; but the time required for this process will very much depend on the constitution of the patient, and the structure of the part in which the inflammation is seated. Parts prone to Some parts more readily run into the adhesive, others into the .uppuration. SUppuratjve inflammation; the pleura, pericardium, peritoneum, &c., are subject to the former; while the urethra, vagina, lachrymal duct, trachea, bronchi, nasal passages, &c., are liable to the latter: serous surfaces, therefore, are affected by the adhesive inflammation, and mucous surfaces by the suppurative. The reason why the inflammation affectingthe two structures produces different results, appears to be this: the vessels of serous surfaces are too small to permit the transmission of the particles which pus contains: but when the inflammation becomes violent or long continued, then