ON Til F CUKE OF ANEURISMS. •214 Improved by Hunter. Hunter’s first efforts. which exposed a very considerable surface, where the artery in the vicinity of the aneurism was diseased, and by which the bones were frequently injured, from the ulcerative process taking place, necessarily led very frequently to fatal results; so frequently, indeed, that it was a disputed point among' the profession whether it was better to amputate in cases of popliteal aneurism, or to perform this operation. A man who had recovered after the old operation for popliteal aneurism could, formerly, get money by showing himself at the hospitals; at present it would not be worth a man’s while to beg in this way. It is to the transcendant talents of that immortal genius Mr. John Hunter, that we are indebted for the great improvement which has taken place in this branch of surgery. But for Mr. John Hunter, we might still have the same difficulties to encounter, and patients labouring under this disease might still have been exposed to the same danger. Mr. Hunter being an excellent physiologist, and an admirable anatomist, applied the powers of his active and inquiring mind to this subject. He said, “ I have frequently tied the femoral artery in animals, without injury; why should not I put a ligature on the artery, in the same way, in the human subject ? ” It is right, however, to observe that Mr. Hunter was led to this train of thought by having under his care a case of popliteal aneurism, of such extent as to have reached the tendon of the triceps, so that there was no room for the application of a ligature between the aneurismal sac and the tendon. He determined, therefore, to make the experiment of tying the femoral artery, rather than amputate the limb. The first operation was not, as might be expected, performed in the very best manner. He was not content with a single ligature, but applied several, which were left hanging out of the wound, and which were afterwards discharged by a process of ulceration. Yet under all these disadvantages, the patient recovered, and lived rather more than twelve months after the operation. On dissection, it w-as found that the femoral artery was obliterated as far as the arteria profunda. Since Mr. Hunter’s time, several slight alterations have been made in the operation for