INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 481 system of depletion pursued, to prevent inflammation of the thoracic viscera. INJURIES OF THE SPINE. It has been generally stated by surgeons that dislocations of the spinal column frequently occur : but if luxation of the spine ever does happen, it is extremely rare; as in the numerous instances which I have seen of violence done to the spine, I have never witnessed a separation of one vertebra from another through the intervertebral substance, without fracture of the articular pro- cesses ; or, if those processes remain unbroken, without a fracture through the bodies of the vertebrae. Still I would not be under- stood to deny the possibility of dislocation of the cervical vertebrae, as their articulatory processes are placed more obliquely than those of the other vertebrae. I must, however, observe that, from the vicinity of our hospitals to the river, sailors are often brought into them with injuries of the spine, by falls from the yard-arm to the deck ; and as there is almost always an opportunity of inspection in these cases, a dislocation must be very unusual, since I have never met with a single instance of it, those injuries having all proved to be fractures with displacement. I am well aware that respectable surgeons have described dislo- cations as occurring in the cervical vertebrae; but I wish to state my own experience, with no further reference to that of others. The following short account of the structure of the spine, is given merely to revive the ideas which may have faded from the I memory. The spinal column is composed of twenty-four vertebrae, which are divided into three classes; namely, the cervical, dorsal, and the lumbar: they are very strongly connected by four articular processes, and are firmly joined by an elastic substance, which proceeds from the broad surface of the body of one vertebra to Ithat of the other. The spinous processes of many of the vertebrae, and particularly those nearest to the centre of the column, are locked together, one being admitted into a depression of the other. VOL. II. I I Dislocations very rare. Structure. Bones.