326 FRACTURES OF TIIE UTTER TART OF THE THIGH-BONE. From severe in- Secondly:—These cases may be in some measure distinguished by the severity of the accident which produces them ; for whilst the internal fracture happens from very slight causes, this on the contrary, is produced either by severe blows, or falls upon the edge of some projecting body, as against the edge of a curb-stone, or from the pressure of laden carriages passing over the pelvis. My experience has taught me, that a very slight accident generally ! occasions the fracture within the capsule, and a violent blow or 1 fall, the other; the first is an accident upon which the fall often * succeeds, the other is generally the consequence of that fall. Many of those within the capsule which I have witnessed, were produced ! by the persons slipping from the curb-stone to the road-way *: not p that I mean to deny, that a fall will, and does occasionally, pro- m duce a fracture within the capsule, or that in a very old person, a of fracture may occasionally happen in any part of a bone, from a lr< slight cause compared with that which produces it in the young. Crepitus. Thirdly :—It may be generally known by the crepitus which r ins attends it upon slight motion; and so small is the retraction, that ‘ it is unnecessary to draw down the limb to distinguish the grating I! te of one bone upon the other. 1 | fa Fourthly :—Great ecchymosis often attends it. f tec Swelling. Fifthly:—Swelling and tenderness to the touch quickly succeed p upon the upper part of the thigh, from the inflammation which p this injury produces. * I® Severe pain. Sixthly:—This accident is generally marked by much greater for severity of suffering than the fracture within the ligament, slight motion producing excruciating pain, which does not happen in an |to equal degree in the fracture within the ligament. w mu Dissection. Seventhly :—There is a high degree of irritative fever, and pos many months elapse before the patient recovers any use of his p limb. "W. ie Upon dissection of these cases, the seat of the fracture is found ion . . ij tf * Slipping from the curb-stone to the road-way produces a violence in the perpendicular direction ; falling against the edge of the curb-stone often pro- duces the fracture external to the capsule.