THE OPERATION FOR THE STONE. 385 forceps. In my own practice I have met with only one decided case of this kind, which was the following: A boy was admitted into Guy’s Hospital, in whose bladder, by Case, i sounding, I found a stone; but the symptoms were less urgent than ; usual, and each time I sounded, the stone was felt in the same part of the bladder. This led me to examine per rectum, and I then perceived a stone lodged and fixed at the under part of the bladder over the rectum, I therefore made an incision between the bladder and rectum in perineo, and, directed by my finger in the rectum, I reached the stone without wounding either the rectum or bladder; I then opened the sac with the knife, and seizing the stone with a I pair of dressing forceps, I extracted it. The boy for three days | only passed his urine by the wound, and then it took its natural [ course, and the wound healed rapidly. In a case which I attended with Mr. James, surgeon, at Croydon, Case, he found, on inspection of the body after death, two calculi, having i large extremities connected by a narrow stem, one extremity of j each was situated in a sac, and the other extremity in the cavity of I the bladder. As I have stated, a sacculus behind an enlarged prostate gland is a frequent occurrence, but the calculi are only occasionally falling into its cavity. Corpulency greatly increases the danger of the operation, as well Corpulency, as its difficulty. The perineum is often so deep as to render it ( impossible to reach the bladder with the finger; and, if the stone be large, the impediments to its extraction are greatly augmented, by the resistance afforded by the perineum. When a child has been long subject to prolapsus ani, it often prolapsusani becomes troublesome at the time of the operation. The anus should be supported by an assistant at the time the surgeon com- mences the operation, or it protrudes whilst he is making his inci- sion. It may be observed, that in cases in which the prolapsus happens after opening the bladder, that if the instruments be with- drawn, they cannot again be introduced until the prolapsus be returned.