DISLOCATIONS 01? THE KNEE. 344 Mode of reduc- tion. Different mode of reduction. Particular band- age required. the limb is attempted to be extended, the edges of the semilunar cartilages prevent it. How then is the bone to be again brought upon the cartilages ? Why, as Mr. Hey has advised, by bending the limb back as far as is possible, which enables the cartilage to slip into its natural situation; the pressure of the thigh-bone is removed in the bent position, and the leg being brought forwards, it can be completely extended, because the condyles of the os femoris are again received on the semilunar cartilages. This plan is not, however, invariably successful, as the following case will shew. A lieutenant in the army suffered this accident repeatedly, and the limb was as often reduced by the above means; but at length, turning in bed, from the pressure of the bed clothes on his foot, the accident recurred. He came to town ; but bending the limb had now no effect in enabling him to extend the joint, I there- fore advised him to visit Mr. Hey, at Leeds; but I learned that in this case the dislocation was never reduced. I made the following notes of the case of a gentleman who j, came to my house. Mr. Henry Dobley, aged thirty-seven, has |j,: often dislocated his knee, turning the foot inwards and the thigh- || bone outwards, by accidentally slipping on uneven ground, or by ,» sudden exertions of the limb ; considerable pain was immediately produced, accompanied with a great deal of swelling. His mode of reducing it is as follows: he sits upon the ground, and then if, bending the thigh inwards, and pulling the foot outwards, the subluxation of the os femoris being external, the natural position of the limb becomes restored. A knee-cap laced tightly around jf) the knee, is the usual preventive of the return of this accident; ,f but it is not sufficient in Mr. Dobley without the addition of straps, j, and more especially of a very strong one of leather, just below the patella. , A young lady was brought to my house who was frequently the L subject of this accident, but in her the cartilages had been several i [j times easily replaced, and the return of the accident prevented by a bandage composed of a piece of linen with four rollers at- j.