314 OF THE IRRITABLE TESTIS. extremely tender to the slightest touch of the fingers: coitus always irritates it, so that the swelling and tenderness increase from it: the soreness is felt in the upper and outer part of the testis, and in the vessels of the cord. With regard to the nature of the disease, I have been a long time convinced it is seated in the nerves of the spermatic cord; the pain is a benumbed sensation,—at some times, a pricking feel;—at others, such as would proceed from a com- pressed or irritated nerve. It is uniformly increased by whatever disturbs the position of the testis, or presses upon the riftg, or course of the cord. I can bear the erect position for a few minutes, provided the part be properly adjusted. When I lie on the left side, the pain is of a dragging kind, and feels as if it extended from the region of the coecum; and when on the right it is more sharp, and feels as if the parts, which are tender, were pressed upon by those in the neighbourhood : I feel most easy on my back. There is considerable fulness on the side of the pubes, which is always increased, and extends higher in the direction of the cord, when the pain in the testis has been greater than usual. “ After aperient medicine has produced two or three motions, I usually suffer more pain for a day, and the passage of flatus through the coecum produces the same effect. “ The cord appears, as far as its tender state will bear examination, to be free from organic change; and the testis, excepting that it is occasionally full, seems unchanged in size or structure. “ My general health is good, and every other function is natural:—yet I have now been confined to a horizontal posture for a year. “ It has always happened, that however severe the pain has been on the side and right limb, or region, it has given way to cold applied to the abdominal ring; and comparative if not perfect ease has been enjoyed for an hour afterwards. “ The means which I before used, but most ineffectually as to my cure, have been, leeches; a solution of nitre, in a bladder, to the part; belladonna and the cold hip bath; sea bathing; regularly aperient medicines, and all the means which the best advice in this country could suggest.