WOUNDS OE THE INTESTINES. 209 uninterrupted suture, and return the intestine into the abdomen, letting the end of the ligature hang from the external wound, which I should otherwise close with great care. I well know that, in experiments on animals, the ligature has been cut off close to the intestine, which has been returned into the cavity of the ab- domen, and the external wound has been afterwards closed, so as to leave the ligature to separate into the intestine. Now I do not clearly understand that this plan, in any way, adds to the patient’s security ; but, on the contrary, it increases his danger, in my opinion, if the process of adhesion be deficient. In the treatment of these wounds, it is right, if the wound be in Treatment, the small intestines, to keep the patient without food, and support him by clysters of broth, &c. If it be in the large intestines, after a few days, a little jelly may be allowed. Perfect quiet is to be observed; and, if there be much tenderness of the abdomen, leeches should be applied. Ruptures of the intestines from blows are more frequent acci- Rupture of in. dents, arising from kicks of horses, falling upon projecting bodies, testl,lc" &c. The symptoms are, great depression, coldness, and paleness ; the pulse is scarcely to be felt if the laceration be large, and the patient dies in from twelve to twenty-four hours after the accident, quite sensible to the last moment of his existence. But if the laceration be small, the symptoms are less violent; there is coldness, tension of the abdomen, vomiting, costiveness, and not the least disposition for food; there is subsequently great S abdominal tenderness and great enervation. A patient was brought into Guy’s Hospital, under the care Case, of Mr. Forster; the man had been working in a gravel-pit, when the gravel fell in upon him. He vomited, his abdomen became tense, and as he made scarcely any urine, the case had been thought to be retention of urine. The man died six days after the accident, and, on examination after death, a rupture was found in the intestines. The treatment in these cases, is perfect rest, to prevent any dis- Treatment, jturbance of the adhesive process, to apply leeches and foment- vor„ ii. p