435 DISLOCATIONS OF THE OS HUMERI. The neck of the os humeri was broken through, and had been co- vered by a granular ligamentous substance ; but the parts were kept together only by the ligament of the joint, and a new and very useful joint had been formed. The outer edge of the glenoid cavity remained : the surface of the glenoid cavity was granulated and ligamentous. The greater tubercle of the os humeri was ex- ceedingly increased, and the tendon of the biceps passed through the bone. The tubercles were separated with the body of the bone, and not with its head. This, then, was a case of fracture of the cervix humeri within i the capsular ligament, terminating in a ligamentous union. COMPOUND DISLOCATION OF THE OS HUMERI. An injury of excessive violence will sometimes occasion the head i of the bone to be forced through the integuments, in the dislocation forwards. It happened in the practice of Messrs. Saumarez and Dixon, of Newington ; and for the following detail of its circum- stances I am indebted to Mr. Dixon. “ My dear Sir:—I feel pleasure in answering the queries you have put. The accident happened to Robert Price, fifty-five years of age, who, on returning in a state of intoxication from the Bo- ; rough, fell down upon his shoulder. Upon examination, I found ! that the head of the bone, having passed through the integuments i in the axilla, lay exposed upon the anterior part of the chest, and 1 situated over the pectoral muscle on the right side. The reduction of the dislocation was easy, being performed without the necessity of raising him from the state of stupor and insensibility in which he was lying, by the usual method of extension and counter-ex- ; tension, taking care only to guide the bone into the glenoid ca- vity ; he was then put to bed and an evaporating lotion applied. On the following morning considerable pain and tension came on ; he was bled, and purged freely ; a large poultice was applied over the joint, and anodynes were given to lessen the pain and procure f f %