462 STRUCTURE OF THE WRIST-JOINT. Treatment of compound frac- tures of the elbow-joint. Structure of the joint. Bones. done to the part, and the constitution of the patient, who, like most of those in such employment, drank much porter and spirits, and ate but little, I at once told him, I feared there was scarcely any hope of his recovery, unless he consented to the loss of his limb; the man, however, determined not to submit to the opera- tion, although Dr. Hulme, who accompanied me, also endeavoured to convince him of the necessity of amputation; I therefore did all in my power to save both his life and his limb. The bones were easily replaced, and the parts were carefully brought together. The limb was laid upon a splint, lightly bandaged, and placed at right angles. The wound united without any untoward circum- stance ; and the only check that interrupted his progressive re- covery, was the formation of an abscess in the shoulder, which was opened, and immediately healed. The elbow-joint was not even completely anchylosed, for he retained sufficient motion in it to allow him to resume his former occupation. In all cases of this accident, the arm should be kept in the bent position ; for as anchylosis, in a greater or less degree, is the cer- tain consequence, it is attended with much less inconvenience in this position than in any other. If the bones be much commi- nuted, and the wound large, all the detached portions of bone should be removed; but in old people, when much injury is done, there is often not sufficient strength to support the adhesive pro- cess, and amputation should be recommended. The edges of the wound should be kept together by placing a piece of lint, dipped in blood, over them, supported by adhesive plaster, and a bandage, lightly applied, wetted with spirits of wine and water. STRUCTURE OF THE WRIST-JOINT. The radius and the three first bones of the carpus, form the ar- ticular surfaces of the wrist-joint; the radius having an oval cavity at its lower extremity, which receives the rounded surfaces of the scaphoid, lunar, and cuneiform bones. The articular cartilage which covers this surface of the radius is, at its inner edge, ex- tended beneath the ulna, so as to exclude that bone from the gene-