Cause of the accident. 44G DILOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. anil it is preserved in the Museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital. The coronoid process of the ulna was thrown into the posterior fossa of the os humeri, and the olecranon projected at the back part of I the elbow, above its natural situation, an inch and a half, the ; radius was placed behind the external condyle of the os humeri, , and the humerus was thrown forwards on the anterior part of the fore-arm, where it formed a large projection. The capsular liga- ment was torn through, anteriorly, to a great extent. The coro- - nary ligament remained entire. The biceps muscle was slightly put upon the stretch, by the radius receding; but the brachialis internus was excessively stretched by the altered position of the coronoid process of the ulna. This accident usually happens in a fall when a person puts out his hand to save himself, the arm not being perfectly extended, so that the bones are forced back behind the axis of the os humeri, by pressure of the whole weight of the body upon them. This dislocation is easily reduced by the following means. The patient is made to sit down upon a chair, and the surgeon, placing his knee on the inner side of the elbow-joint, in the bend of the arm, and taking hold of the patient’s wrist, bends the arm ; at the | same time he presses on the radius and ulna with his knee, so as to separate them from the os humeri, and thus the coronoid pro- cess is thrown from the posterior fossa of the humerus: whilst this pressure is supported by the knee, the arm is to be forcibly, but slowly, bent, and the reduction is soon effected. It may be also accomplished by placing the arm around the post of a bedstead, and by forcibly bending it while it is thus confined. I have also reduced the limb by making the patient, whilst placed upon an elbow-chair, put his arm through the opening in its back, and then, having bent the arm, the body and limb being thus well fixed, the reduction was easily effected. This dislocation is sometimes undiscovered at first, in conse- quence of the great tumefaction which immediately succeeds the injury; but this circumstance does not prevent the reduction, even at the period of several weeks after the accident : for I have