468 OF ITS TREATMENT. Escharotics. Removal by the knife. Medicine useless. Operation. Haemorrhage. Sutures. that cause. It seems to be much more a local disease than cancer in most other parts of the body ; the general health often appearing extremely good. OF ITS TREATMENT. In the' early stages of this disease the sore may be destroyed by the application of arsenic, which occasions it to slough; it might be also destroyed by the actual cautery, but in the very earliest stages it is most prudent and judicious to remove it by the knife. The operation should not, however, be performed if a gland under the jaw be enlarged, as the disease is then sure to return ; but if the gdand be not diseased, the result of the operation is much more successful than for scirrhous tubercle in the breast. No local applications short of those that destroy the part, or any form of internal medicines, are found to be useful. The operation is performed in the following manner: An assistant puts a finger into each angle of the mouth, and stretches the under lip to its utmost extent; the surgeon then makes an incision on each side of the disease, so that a triangular portion of the lip is thus removed. The coronary arteries bleed freely, but do not require to be secured ; but when the inferior labial artery is formed on each side, by a large mental branch, I have found it necessary to secure that vessel at the inferior angle of the incision. Three ligatures are then required to bring the edges of the wound together : one at the red edge of the lip, and two others at equal distances, in the remaining part of the wound. These are to be passed through the lip by means of a straight needle, as in the operation for hare-lip. Some pressure is afterwards required, ro assist in the arrest of the bleeding from the coronary arteries; the patient using a sponge for that purpose. Two-thirds at least may be thus removed, and yet a good lip be afterwards formed. The ligatures are to be removed on the fourth and fifth days, the upper ligature being left to the fifth day.