14G OF STRANGULATED UMBILICAL HERNIA. Hernial sac. Division of the stricture. Return of vis- cera. After-treatment. should commence the operation by making an incision across the swelling, and then a second cut at right angles writh the first, in the direction of the lineaalba; the transverse incision should be below, and should be joined at its centre by the lower part of the perpen- dicular cut, so that the two represent an inverted j\ The two angles should be dissected up to expose the superficial fascia, which the surgeon must next divide, but very carefully, as the hernial sac itself is sometimes wanting in part; and in such a case the protruded viscera would be immediately exposed. This covering should therefore be opened, as if it were the sac, by nip- ping up a small portion between the finger and thumb, in the man- ner I have already described. If the peritoneal covering be complete beneath the superficial fascia, it should be cut into, and divided further, upon a director, in the same way as when operating for other herniae. The escape of a small quantity of fluid usually indicates that the sac has been opened. The protruded viscera being exposed, the operator should care- fully pass his finger over their upper part to the opening of the umbilicus, and then introducing the hernia knife iqpon his finger, and insinuating it under the stricture, he should cut upward to- wards the ensiform cartilage to such an extent as will make the opening sufficiently large to allow of an easy reduction of the pro- truded parts. Having divided the stricture, the intestine, if in a fit state, should be first cautiously returned; and the omentum, if in large quantity, or if in a doubtful state, may be cut away, but if in a small quantity, and sound, it may be returned into the abdomen. The edges of the external wound should be brought together by sutures, and the approximation completed by strips of adhesive plaister; a compress of linen should be placed over this, and con- fined by means of a broad bandage passed round the body. It is of much importance, after this operation, to procure a clo- sure of the wound by adhesion, as the direct communication with the abdomen increases the risk of peritoneal inflammation.