420 DISLOCATIONS OT THE OS HUMERI. was rendered larger by laceration, but the tendon itself was not torn. The head of the os humeri was thrown on the inferior costa of the scapula, between it and the ribs; and the axis of its new situation was about an inch and a half below that of the glenoid cavity, from which it had been thrown. The second case which I had an opportunity of examining, was one in which the dislocation had existed five weeks, and in which very violent attempts had been made to reduce the dislocated bone, but without success. The subject of the accident was a woman fifty years of age. All the appearances were distinctly marked; the deltoid muscle being flattened, and the acromion pointed; the head of the bone could also be distinctly felt in the axilla; the skin had been abraded during the attempts at reduc- tion, and the woman apparently died from the violence used in the extension. Upon exposing the muscles, the pectoralis major was found to have been slightly lacerated, and blood effused; the latissimus dorsi and teres major were not injured ; the supra- spinatus was lacerated in several places ; the infra-spinatus and teres minor were torn, but not to the same extent as the former muscle. Some of the fibres of the deltoid muscle, and a few of those of the coraco-brachialis, had been torn ; but none of the muscles had suffered so much injury as the supra-spinatus. The biceps was not injured. Having ascertained the injury which the muscles had sustained in the extension, and, in some degree, the resistance which they opposed to it, I proceeded to examine the joint. The capsular ligament had given way in the axilla, between the teres minor and subscapularis muscles; the tendon of the sub- scapularis was torn through at its insertion into the lesser tubercle of the os humeri; the head of the bone rested upon the axillary plexus of nerves and the artery. Having determined these points by dissection, I next endeavoured to reduce the bone, but finding the resistance too great to be overcome by my own efforts, I became very anxious to ascertain its origin. I therefore divided one muscle after another, cutting through the coraco-brachialis, I,