TREATMENT OF STRANGULATED HERNIA. 74 Period of time proper for the continuance of the taxis. pose is the supine, with the body moderately incurvated. This is effected by laying the patient on his back, and putting one pillow under the pelvis, and another under the shoulders, which will cause the loins to sink between them both, the thighs should be elevated to a right angle with the patient’s body, and the knees should be brought so close together as only to admit of the surgeon’s arm between them. This last is a most essential point, since it relaxes the fascia of I the thigh, and consequently the apertures through which the hernia quits the abdomen, which, as we have before described, is inti- mately connected with this fascia. The patient should also be desired to void his urine, and then to keep himself as quiet as possible. The surgeon then places himself on the patient’s right side, and embracing the tumour with his right hand, he presses it towards the abdominal ring so as to keep it from receding, then applying the finger and thumb of his left hand upon the neck of the tumour, at the part where it enters the abdomen, he gently presses it from side to side, thus endeavouring to disengage it and get a small portion of it within the abdomen. If any part can be forced up the rest generally follow without any difficulty. The pressure may ! sometimes be more effectually made by having some counter-force to prevent the patient’s body receding. The pressure should be maintained from a quarter to half an hour. I have known it succeed after a trial of twenty minutes, and it should not therefore be hastily abandoned. The degree of force should be but moderate, as the chief dependence should be placed on continuance rather than violence of pressure, the latter being sometimes known to produce a laceration of the protruded parts. The longer the hernial tumour has been strangulated, the more dangerous is it to use any considerable pressure for its reduction, as the parts have then a much less power of resistance than in their natural slate. The force of the pressure should be directed towards the anterior and superior spinous process of the ilium, in