DISSECTION. 323 June, 1818.—Lady Hewett, aged 60, tall, and of strong- consti- Case, tution, dates the origin of the swelling in her breast from a blow she received, November, 1815, in her axilla, by falling against a chair; although she had previously felt some evanescent pains in her right bosom. Nine weeks after the blow, she felt uneasiness in the right breast, which extended into the axilla. In the begin- ning of 1816 she discovered a swelling in her right breast, which was about the size of a nutmeg, situated below the nipple. In May, 1816, it had acquired the size of a melon, and she consulted Dr. Sharp, of Thrapston, who ordered her what medicines he thought most appropriate to her situation, and sent her to Harrow- gate; but, as the swelling increased, she applied leeches every day for two months, and afterwards every other day, till September, without advantage. She then determined to try the influence of pressure, which she continued several months, by adhesive plaster, and afterwards by an instrument, contrived for the purpose, which was worn during four months, but without any advantage, as the swelling still conti- nued to increase. She therefore determined to leave the case to nature, and she did so until November, 1817, when the swelling began to undergo a change. It increased quickly, and became soft at its upper part, appearing inclined to suppurate :—fomentations and poultices were applied, calomel and opium given, but matter did not form. This treatment was continued until the May following, when she discon- tinued all the means. In June, 1818, she made up her mind to submit to an operation, which I performed on the 10th day of June, 1818, in the presence of Mr. Cline, Mr. Lowdell, and my nephew, Mr. Bransby Cooper. The swelling was of great size, weighing nine pounds. It was in part solid, in some parts evidently contained a fluid, and over the fluid part there was a slight blue tint. The swelling- was very moveable, and reached down upon the upper part of. the abdomen. Lady H.’s general health was good. The first steps of the opera- tion consisted in making a puncture into the tumour at its most y 2