SPERMATIC CORD, AND PARTS ADJACENT. 291 muscle before it leaves the inguinal canal. Two long and delicate Nerves of the branches may, however, be traced through the external ring,tl stls- descending one on the fore, the other on the back part of the cord, until they are lost in the coverings of the testicle: this nerve is distributed in the course of the cremasteric artery, at the epigastric. The second branch of the external spermatic is a cutaneous nerve, which passes under Poupart’s ligament over the iliac artery, and divides into twigs, which supply the skin at the groin, and descend upon the fore-part of the thigh. Some of these branches become sub-cutaneous at the cremastic margin, and on the fascia lata itself lower down. This nerve is larger or smaller in proportion to the size of the external cutaneous of the lumbar plexus, and some- times supplies a considerable portion of the skin of the thigh usually allotted to the latter nerve. Thirdly, the spermatic plexus*', which may be considered as consisting of two portions ; the one descending with the spermatic vessels, the other coming from the interior of the pelvis, in close connection with the artery of the vas deferens. They meet at the internal ring. The first portion is derived from branches of the superior mesen- teric, renal, and aortic plexus. Three or four branches pass down from the nerves which surround the root of the superior mesenteric artery, some of which become attached to the spermatic artery where it arises from the aorta, while others join two or three small ganglia on the inferior cava, and which receive several filaments from the aortic plexus. From these ganglia small twigs are given off, which also become connected with the spermatic artery; and when the latter has passed over the cava, and joined the spermatic vein, two or three considerable branches are received from the renal or emulgent plexus. The plexus thus formed, receiving two or three filaments from the aortic plexus, ascends with the spermatic artery, closely * This description is of the nerve at the right side.