Tunica vagi- nalis. Cremaster. Inguinal canal. 1C ANATOMY OF HERNIA. the epididymis, forming with the latter the excretory duct of the testis; it accompanies the cord to the internal ring, and there leav- ing the spermatic vessels, descends over the brim of the pelvis by the side of the bladder to its ultimate destination in the urethra. The duct is frequently accompanied by a small artery derived from a branch of the internal iliac. These vessels, together with the accompanying nerves and ab- sorbents, receive a double covering of peritoneum, which is derived from the part at which they quit the abdomen, and closely unites them together. This covering is called the tunica vaginalis of the spermatic cord. About an inch above the testis, the two layers separate to form a serous bag, which invests the gland anteriorly, and gives freedom to its motion. This bag is called the tunica vaginalis testis. Between the upper and lower rings the cord receives the cre- master muscle. It arises, under the tendon of the external ob- lique muscle, from the edges of the internal oblique and trans- versalis, descends into the scrotum upon the surface of the cord, and is attached to the tunica vaginalis reflexa of the testicle. This muscle is usually accompanied in its descent into the scrotum by a branch from the epigastric artery. It appears, therefore, that the portion of the cord between the testis and the external ring is covered by a double peritoneal coat, formed by the tunica vaginalis, next by the cremaster muscle, and lastly by a layer of fascia sent from the tendon of the external oblique ; that portion included between the two abdominal rings is also covered by the cremaster and tunica vaginalis ; but, besides the fascia of the external oblique, it receives an additional covering from the tendon of the muscle. Within the cavity of the abdomen the spermatic vessels receive no other covering but that which is derived from the peritoneum. The space which the cord occupies between the external and in- ternal abdominal rings is now called the inguinal canal. It is formed by the following parts: the posterior boundary is formed by the union of the tendon of the transversalis muscle and fascia