346 DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. Case. mild; and, by carefully watching him, he suffered very little in- flammation or pain. At the expiration of a month I allowed him to get up, and on the 29th of January, he came into this town, a distance of four miles, in a cart, and walked from an inn to my house, with his leg but little swollen, and having some motion of the joint. He eventually recovered a very good use of his limb, and walks with so little inconvenience, that he has followed his business as a waggoner ever since; and this day, November 30th, 1822, I have seen him walking by the side of his team with very little lameness. COMPOUND DISLOCATION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. Having seen only one instance of this dislocation, I conclude it to be a rare occurrence; and there are scarcely any injuries inci- dent to the body, which more imperiously demand immediate am- putation than these. On Monday, August 26th, 1819, at eleven p. m., I was sent for by Mr. Oliver, of Brentford, to visit Mr. Pritt, who had fallen from the box of a mail-coach, and most severely injured his knee. I met, at the house to which he was carried, Mr. Oliver, and Mr. Hunter, of Richmond, surgeons, and immediately proceeded to examine the knee. A large opening was found in the integuments, through which the external condyle of the os femoris projected, so as to be on a level with the edges of the skin. The os femoris was thrown behind the tibia on the outer side of the head of the latter, and the external condyle of the thigh-bone was dislocated backwards and outwards; the thigh-bone was twisted outwards, and the internal condyle advanced upon the head of the tibia. I made attempts to reduce the condyle, but it could only be effected with extreme difficulty; and the bone, directly when the extension was removed, slipped into its former situation. The joint being freely opened by the accident, the bone dislocated, and when re- duced easily slipping from its place, and the patient having an ex- tremely irritable constitution, I determined at once to propose the amputation of the limb, which being acceded to, was immediately