TREATMENT OF no When irreduci- ble. When strangu- lated, taxis. Case. Hernia appa- rently reduced. Caution in operating. If the hernia be irreducible, the means recommended for the ob- lique irreducible hernia will be proper. When strangulated, the reduction must be attempted in a dif- ferent direction to that required for the oblique. The tumour is to be grasped as in the oblique hernia, w ith one hand, while the fingers and thumb of the other hand are to be placed over the ab- dominal ring, to knead the neck of the swelling, and the pressure must be directed upwards and inwards, instead of upwards and outwards. In this manner I quickly succeeded in reducing a direct hernia which had become strangulated, in a patient who was admitted into Guy’s Hospital, for some other complaints. The hernia was small, it had the cord to its outer side, and could not be traced higher than the abdominal ring. This hernia may apparently be reduced by the employment of the taxis, and strangulation still exist; a case of this kind occurred a short time ago at Guy’s Hospital. A man applied at the sur- gery, having a direct hernia strangulated, and the taxis was had recourse to, by which the gentleman in attendance thought he had succeeded in reducing the hernia, as he had pushed it through the abdominal ring. The symptoms of strangulation, however, still continued, and in two or three days the man died. On examina- tion of his body, the hernia was found placed immediately behind the external ring, with a stricture still existing at the mouth of the sac. If the operation for this variety of hernia be performed in the manner usually advised in bubonocele, that is, by dilating the hernial sac and stricture upwards and outwards, the epigastric ar- tery will certainly be divided. I thas therefore been recom- mended to alter the direction of the incision, and to make it up- wards and inwards, to avoid the epigastric artery; and, if the sur- geon is certain as to the species of hernia, that is the safest plan. But if, in some instances, the operator is directed to make the in- cision in one way, and in others precisely the reverse, there will always be reason to fear some mistakes in practice, which would