172 ON FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. not made a greater impression on the public mind than it appears to have done. Case. A man was pressed on board one of his majesty’s ships, early in the late revolutionary war. While on board this vessel, in the Mediterranean, he fell from the yard-arm, and when picked up, was found to be insensible. The vessel soon after making Gibraltar, he was deposited in an hospital in that place, where he remained for some months, still insensible; and some time after he was brought from Gibraltar on board the Dolphin frigate, to a depot for sailors at Deptford. While he was at Deptford, the surgeon under whose care he was, was visited by Mr. Davy, who was then an apprentice at this hospital: the surgeon said to Mr. Davy, “ I have a case which I think you -would like to see. It is a man who has been insensible for many months; he lies on his back with veiy few signs of life; he breathes indeed, has a pulse, and some motion in his fingers; but in all other respects he is apparently deprived of all powers of mind, volition, or sensation.” Mr. Davy went to see the case, and, on examining the patient, found that there was a slight depression on one part of the head. Being informed of the accident which had occasioned this depres- sion, he recommended the man to be sent to St. Thomas’s Hospital. He was placed under the care of Mr. Cline; and when he was first admitted into this hospital, I saw him lying on his back, breathing without any great difficulty; his pulse regular, his arms extended, and his fingers moving to and fro to the motion of his heart: so that you could count his pulse by this motion of his fingers. If he wanted food, he had the power of moving his lips and tongue; and this action of his mouth was the signal to his attendants for supplying this want. The operation Mr. Cline, on examining his head, found an obvious depression; o ephining. an(j^ thirteen months and a few days after the accident, he was carried into the operating theatre, and there trephined. The depressed portion of bone was elevated from the skull. While he was lying on the table, the motion of his fingers went on during the operation, but no sooner was the portion of bone raised than it