PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. VOL. II. t I used only mechanical means in my attempts at reduction ; and although I employed the pulleys, and varied the direction of repeated extensions, I could not succeed in replacing the bone, and this person returned to the country with the dislocation unre- duced. The next case was communicated to me by Mr. Norwood, surgeon, Hertford. William Newman, a strong muscular man, nearly thirty years of Case, age, was admitted into Guy’s Hospital on Wednesday, December 4, 1812, for a dislocation of the hip-joint. In springing from the shafts of a waggon, on Thursday, November 7th, his foot slipped, and his hip was driven against the wheel with considerable force. He immediately fell, and being unable to walk, was carried to Kingston Workhouse, near the place where the accident happened. On the evening of that day, he was examined by a medical man, but the nature of the accident was not ascertained. He remained it Kingston until the 30th of November, and was then removed to Guildford, his place of residence, and on the 4th of December, o Guy’s Hospital. On examination, the head of the thigh-bone vas found resting on the dorsum ilii: the trochanter was thrown orward towards the anterior superior spinous process of the lium. The knee and foot were turned inwards, and the limb was hortened one inch and a half; the great toe rested upon the netatarsal bone of the other foot, and there was but little motion n the limb. On Saturday, the 7th of December, thirty days after the acci- lent, an extension was made to reduce the limb ; and previously o the application of the bandage, he was bled to twenty-four tunces from his arm ; in about ten minutes after, he was put into a arm bath, where he remained until he becarrie faint, which hap- iened in fifteen minutes : a grain of tartarized antimony was then iven him, and repeated in sixteen minutes, as the first dose did ot produce nausea. The most distressing nausea was now quickly roduced, but he did not vomit; and while under the influence of