OX HYDROCELE. 243 this is water now, introduced the trocar again a little way from where I did at first, and off it ran. The fluid, in the second instance, had nothing of the yellow appearance of that which is drawn off in hydrocele, but on the contrary, was as clear as water. 1 have before mentioned to you, that the testicle in hydrocele is : commonly situated at the -back part, and two-thirds of the way downwards. Here, however, there is great variety, and it is even sometimes found in front. I will tell you how this happens. The person is attacked with inflammation in the tunica vaginalis, before any collection of water has taken place; adhesive matter is thrown out, probably at the fore part, which occasions permanent adhesion between the middle and outer coat of the testicle: should serum be secreted after this, of course it would he lodged at the sides and posterior part. What would the consequence be, if, in such a case as this, the trocar were to be introduced in the usual situation ? Why, that it would pass into the testicle. A gentleman of great importance in this town, consulted his regimental surgeon for a swelling in the scrotum ; it was pronounced hydrocele. The operation of tapping was resolved upon; but when I the trocar was introduced, it passed only into a solid substance, and ! no water came away. The surgeon stared, and said, “ Sir, I am a little mistaken in this case; you have a diseased testicle here, instead of hydrocele, as I at first supposed, and it is necessary that the diseased part should be removed.” But the gentleman, being a young man, did not think it would add much to his enjoyment to lose a testicle—(loud laughter)—and thought that it required some hesitation before he resolved upon such a measure; consequently he did hesitate, and the result was, that he consulted another surgeon. Upon examination, the testicle was found at the fore part of the ; swelling, and the fluid at the sides and bottom. Whilst taking off his clothes, some copper-coloured eruptions having been seen, he was asked if there was any enlargement of the bones; when the right tibia was found considerably swollen. He was put under a course of mercury, for these secondary symptoms, which soon got well. The hydrocele still remained, and as the surgeon who first R 2 Necessity of knowing the relative position of the testicle. Case.