475 DISLOCATIONS OF TIIE FINGERS AND TOES. operation; but the lady went to another surgeon, who complied with her request, and she did very well. In consequence of the perfect recovery of this lady, and the comfort which she derived from the loss of the annoyance, I was induced, at the request of Mr. Toulmin, of Hackney, to remove one of the toes from a patient of his, which was constantly irritated by the pressure of her shoe in walking, and prevented her from taking the exercise necessary to the preservation of her health; she did very well, perfectly recovering the use of her foot. The fingers are sometimes contracted in a similar manner by a chronic inflammation of the thecae and aponeurosis of the palm of the hand, from excessive motion of the hand, in the use of the hammer, the oar, ploughing, &c. When the thecae are con- tracted, nothing should be attempted for the patient’s relief, as no operation or other means will succeed; but when the aponeurosis is the cause of the contraction, and the contracted hand is narrow, it may with advantage be divided by a pointed bistoury, introduced through a very small wound in the integument. The finger is then extended, and a splint is applied to preserve it in the straight position. Some time since, my nephew, Mr. Bransby Cooper, who was transacting my business during my absence from town, performed this operation for a Lincolnshire farmer, who, by this impediment, had been prevented following his avocations; and he perfectly recovered the use of his foot. DISLOCATION OF THE THUMB. These accidents are very difficult to reduce, on account of the numerous strong muscles which are inserted into the part. The thumb consists of three bones:—its metacarpal bone and two phalanges. The metacarpal bone of the thumb is articulated with the os trapezium by means of a double pulley; that of the trapezium directing the thumb towards the palm of the hand, and that of the metacarpal bone directing it laterally. The metacarpal bone is connected with the trapezium by a capsular ligament, and Division of aponeurosis.