ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 157 and if. is on that account that I wait for three or four hours after the accident before I order them. With respect to the exhibition of cathartics, the bowels should Purgatives, lie kept open by calomel purges, followed by the infusion of senna, and sulphate of magnesia. The calomel should be given about two hours after the accident; and it will be useful to give to the patient at the same time a quantity of mild fluids to drink, as by this 1 means a disposition to purging is kept up, counter-irritation is, as it were, produced, and the blood is drawn from the brain to the intestinal canal. Submuriate of mercury, with lemon-juice squeezed in water, should be given. Perspiration on the surface of the body is very desirable, and for Diaphoretics, this purpose antimonials are employed. The pulv. Ipec. Com. (Dover’s powder) is not generally used to produce moisture of the skin, on account of the opium it contains, which confounds the judgment, and prevents your seeing what are the effects of the opium, and what those of the disease; for opium produces the same disturbance to the brain as takes place in concussion; therefore it is not often employed. Counter-irritation is of use, but not until other means have been Counter resorted to; the object of blisters is to subdue the inflammation ‘rritants- when other means have failed. I have known a patient, with pain in the head, sickness at the stomach, loss of strength, and throbbing of the carotids, who had been often relieved by blood-letting, for about two hours only after it was done. A person under such circumstances I have known benefitted by the application of a blister; on the principle not of increasing but subduing action, from an excess of which the ill consequences are to be feared. For the symptoms after concussion, the trephine used to be Trephining, employed; but it now becomes a question whether it ever ought to be resorted to as a means of relief under those circumstances ? To this I say, if you were to trephine, you ought to be trephined yourselves in turn. What will trephining do ? Probably great harm, by disturbing the brain; and if not, no good can possibly result from it. Now for the proofs : first, that it does no good.