270 OF THE TUBULI SEMINIFERI. Lobes of the testis. Tubuli Seminiferi, OF THE LOBES OF THE TESTIS. The tubuli seminiferi are disposed in numerous lobes, which are contained in the tunica albuginea. These lobes are pyriform: their stalk, or commencement, is turned to the upper and posterior edge of the testis, and their bases to the anterior and lateral parts of the tunica albuginea. These lobes receive suspensory cords, or liga- ments, from the mediastinum testis, which send out membranes, to be spread over the lobes, and which meet others springing from the anterior edge and sides of the testis (see plate) ; thus the lobes are suspended in the ligaments and membranes, and by them confined in their situation, so as to be incapable of being displaced: for, if the tubes had been merely loosely suspended within the tunica albuginea, they would have been continually liable to derangement from concussion, or to be torn asunder by violence. OF THE TUBULI SEMINIFERI. The cavity formed by the tunica albuginea is in a great measure filled by the tubuli seminiferi, which, as I have stated, do not hang loosely within the cavity, but are divided into two sets of lobes: first, into large lobes, which are enveloped in membranes, and connected with the larger ligaments or pillars of the testis ; and, secondly, into an infinite number of small lobes, each also contained within a membrane. The larger lobes are composed of numerous tubuli clustered together; the smaller are formed of a single tubulus, and sometimes of two tubuli. The larger lobes are pyriform, their stalks attached to the rete, their bases to the inner side of the tunica albuginea. They are situated between the stronger pillars of the ligaments of the testis, as they pass from the mediastinum to the inner part of the tunica albuginea; and the vascular membranes by which they are enveloped, pass from one ligament to the other; and the smaller lobes are also disposed in vascular membranes, and supported by smaller ligaments and vessels.