OF STRANGULATED UMBILICAL HERNIA. 145 elevated by pillows, also the pelvis a little raised, and the thighs i bent at right angles with the body. The surgeon should then ! grasp the swelling with his hand, and direct the pressure a little upwards as well as inwards, because the opening to the abdomen I is not usually in the centre of the swelling, unless the hernia is Ismail, or projecting, when the pressure should be made directly in- wards. If the neck of the sac can be distinctly felt, the surgeon should knead it with the finger and thumb of one hand, while he presses the hernia with the other. In very large, flat, and spreading hernia, when the tumor cannot be grasped by the hands, the surgeon should make pressure by means of some broad surface, as the bottom of a wooden platter, which he should place on the surface of the swelling, and keep up a steady pressure upon it for twenty minutes or half an hour. Should the employment of the taxis fail in relieving the patient, the other means recommended for the femoral and inguinal herniae, under similar circumstances, should be tried; but the remedy which I have found most successful in this disease, and on which I place the greatest reliance, is the tobacco glyster, as it appears to i produce much more beneficial effects in this form of hernia, than in the others I have described. It should be used of the same strength, and with the same precautions I have before mentioned. In many instances I have known this remedy successful, after re- peated trials of other means had failed to relieve the patient. Bleeding, and the application of cold, I have known to produce the desired effect after the taxis had failed; but the surgeon must be careful how he takes away blood, as women of delicate constitu- tion, and lax fibre, are often the subjects of this disease, in whom the loss of blood, in large quantity, might prove destructive. Should the strangulation continue in spite of these trials to re- lieve it, the surgeon should proceed to liberate the hernia by an operation, the performance of which is extremely simple, but re- quires a little caution. The patient being placed upon a table of convenient height, in an easy position, with the abdominal muscles relaxed, the surgeon VOL. ir. L In very large herniae. General treat- ment. Operation.