PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. 270 Case of disloca- tion on the dor- sum ilii. » ie to the other leg, placing his right hand on the ground. He now walks with two sticks : at first he employed crutches, and these he used for twelve months, after which he was enabled to trust to one crutch and a stick, until his limb acquired greater strength In getting over a stile, he raises the injured limb two steps, and then turns over the sound limb; but this he cannot accomplish when the steps are far apart; and he is frequently obliged either to turn back, or to take a circuitous route. When lying with his face downwards, the dislocated hip projects very much. He sometimes falls in walking, and would very frequently fall, but that he takes extreme care, as the least check to his motion throws to him down. The knee is bent, and the shortening of the limb partly originates in that circumstance. The following cases were sent me by the gentlemen whose B names are attached; they illustrate the method of reduction detailed 1 in the preceding pages, and shew in strong colours the advan- tages to be derived from constitutional treatment, and the use of pulleys. John Forster, aged twenty-two years, was admitted into the Chester Infirmary, July 10, 1818, with a dislocation of the thigh on the> dorsum ilii, occasioned by a cart passing over the pelvis. Upon; examination, I found the leg shorter than the other, and the knee and foot turned inwards. The patient being firmly confined upon a table, I extended the limb by pulleys for fifty minutes without success, and he was returned to bed for three hours; after wliicl he was put in the warm bath for twenty minutes, and the extern sion was repeated for fifteen minutes unsuccessfully; I therefor* took twenty-four ounces of blood from him, and gave him fort) drops of tinct. opii. Continuing the extension, but not succeeding in producing faintness, I gave small doses of a solution of tartrate o antimony, which in quarter a of an hour produced nausea: ii ten minutes afterwards I succeeded in reducing the limb, am in less than a fortnight he left the Infirmary quite well. S. R. Bennet. Chester.