458 FRACTURES OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. Mode of union. On a dog. direction ; but I have seen the bone broken obliquely, so that the fractured parts presented very thin edges. On that portion of the olecranon attached to the ulna there are some marks of ossific inflammation, and some very slight traces of it on the detached portion. The cancellated structure of the fractured olecranon is filled by ossific matter, and is sometimes smoothed by occasional friction. The os humeri and radius undergo no change. In the appearances of one case which I dissected, and of which I have ; given a plate, the olecranon is separated two inches from the ulna ; the capsular ligament of the elbow-joint is torn through on each side of the olecranon ; and the separated portion is united by a ligamentous band, which is stretched from one broken extremity of the bone to the other. The nature of this injury, then, is as follows. So soon as the extremity of the bone is broken off, it is, by the action of the triceps muscle, drawn up from half an inch to two inches from the ulna, and the extent of its separation depends upon the degree of laceration of the capsular ligament, and of that portion of the ligamentous band which proceeds from the side of the coronoid process of the ulna to that of the olecranon. That I might perfectly understand the nature of this accident, and its means of separation, I tried the following experiments on a dog. Experiments. The integuments having been drawn laterally and firmly over the end of the olecranon, I made a small incision, and placed a knife upon the middle of that process, in a transverse direction; on striking it with a mallet, the bone was readily cut through; a separation directly took place by the action of the triceps muscle; adhesive matter was effused ; and when I examined the limb a month afterwards, I found the bone united by a strong ligament. I broke the olecranon in the same manner in several rabbits : in these experiments blood was first thrown out, and then adhesive matter filled up the space of separation, which subsequently be-