FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. .‘305 tice of thirty years, they will collectively amount to two hundred and twenty-five cases. Now in that time, I have only known two cases of fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone within the capsular ( ligament occur under fifty years of age: one was in a patient aged 1 thirty-eight, who had an aneurism of the iliac artery; and the I other has been kindly shewn to me by that excellent anatomist Mr. Herbert Mayo. This fracture, then, rarely occurs under fifty years of age; and dislocation seldom at a more advanced period, although there are exceptions to this rule: for I have myself once seen the fracture at thirty-eight years of age, but it was very oblique ; and a dislo- cation of the thigh at sixty-two: but the period of life between fifty and eighty years is that at which the fracture most usually occurs; for from the different state of the bone, the same violence which would produce dislocation in the adult, occasions fracture in old age. But when dislocation does occur between the age of sixty and seventy, it is in persons whose constitutions are par- ticularly strong, and in whom age has not produced those changes in the bones which I have endeavoured already to point out. That this state of bone in old age tends much to the production of fractures, is shewn by the slight causes which often occasion them. In London, the accident most frequently occurs when per- sons, walking on the edge of the elevated foot-path, slip upon the [carriage pavement; though the descent be only a few inches, yet, being sudden and unexpected, and the force acting perpendicularly, with the advantage of a lever in the cervix, it produces a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone ; and as a fall is the consequence, the fracture is imputed, by ignorant persons, to the fall, and not to its true cause. Other trivial accidents may occasion the mis- fortune. I was informed by a person who had sustained a frac- ture of this kind, that being at her counter, and suddenly turning to a drawer behind her, some projection in the floor caught her foot; and preventing its turning with the body, the neck of the thigh-bone became fractured. A fall upon the trochanter major will also produce it. But I have dwelt particularly on the slight I VOL. II. x Slight cause producing this fracture.