WOUNDS OF TENDONS. 228 Treatment. Division of extensor ten- dons. of the tendon takes place to the surrounding parts, destroying per- manently the action of the muscles, and the motions of the tendon. But if the wound be united by adhesion, and the ends of the di- vided tendon brought into contact, or nearly so, the motions of the foot are generally restored. The principle in the treatment is to approximate the ends of the tendon by raising the heel, extending the foot, and bending the knee ; the external wound is then to be carefully closed, in order that it may be healed by the adhesive inflammation. To effect this, a shoe with a heel one inch and a half in height is to be placed on the foot of the injured limb, and a strap is to be carried from the heel of the shoe to the calf of the leg, then a roller is to«1 be lightly applied upon the upper part of the leg, to confine the I strap and to keep the foot extended. The edges of the external j wound are to be brought together by a small suture, and all pres- I sure at the part should be avoided, only an evaporating lotion > being placed upon it. The patient is to be confined to his bed I until the wound be healed, and then he may be allowed to walk a little with a high-heeled shoe. This shoe is to have the heel gra- .1 dually lowered until it becomes of the same thickness as the heel of the shoe worn on the sound side. By this means, the muscle 'r, which had contracted, and the tendon which had been injured, are it gently brought to their proper action. If the divided extremities of the tendon are allowed to remain ;i separate during the union, an addition is made to the tendon in its i length, and the power of the muscle acting upon it is thus re- J duced. Should much inflammation arise during the cure, the limb must i be elevated to prevent all gravitation of blood, and leeches should be applied near the wound. If the extensor tendons of the fingers be divided, the fingers j should be kept extended during the cure, by a splint placed undei I the hand and fingers. Indeed, it is only necessary to considei I whether the divided tendon, in any case, belongs to a flexor 011 extensor muscle, to know what is to be done to assist its union. |