1.56 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. Case. Emetics. symptoms 1 described to you this evening. When I first saw him, his pulse was scarcely perceptible. I took a little blood from the arm, and he was immediately seized with convulsions, like an epileptic fit, which I thought would have proved fatal. I closed the wound, and I would not, upon any account, have taken six ounces of blood from him at that moment. Some time ago I saw a man, at the other hospital, who had received a blow on the head. He was pale and dejected, and his pulse could scarcely be felt. I said to the dresser, you must not bleed this man at present; there is rather too little action than too much; wait till the pulse rises, and then blee.d him. In the evening re-action took place; the pulse rose, and the dresser then very properly bled him. Inflammation ivas by this means prevented, and the man did well. The principle upon which you should act, gentlemen, is never to do any thing in your profession without a good reason, which, whatever may be the result of the case, will leave your conscience clear. A surgeon who bleeds without being able to assign any other reason than that his patient has received a blow, is not fit to practise his profession. The next remedy I come to is emetics. I must say that I have seen emetics of considerable use; the vomiting produced by them does good. I have always considered the efforts of nature to relieve herself, after injuries, salutary; and thus the vomiting which is excited in cases of concussion, acts beneficially by relieving the stomach of its contents, as the accident generally happens to persons in a state of intoxication ; and also by propelling the blood to the brain, and thus restoring the powers of life. But the vomiting excited by nature restores the patient to his senses for a short time. He is sometimes relieved, but without continuing so long; he looks about, and lapses into his former state of aberration of mind, from which he had received merely a temporary relief. When emetics are exhibited as a remedy in concussion, there is only one thing that I fear from their use; when there is any extravasation of blood in the brain, or any tendency to apoplexy, then they should be employed with caution ;