147 OF STRANGULATED UMBILICAL IIERNIA. For very large umbilical hernias, when strangulated, I should recommend a different mode of operating, which should be per- formed in the following manner. A small opening should be made over the neck of the swelling, through the integument and super- ficial fascia, so as to expose the hernial sac at that part; then the operator should pass his finger between the sac and edge of the umbilical opening, so as to guide the hernial knife, by which the umbilical opening should be dilated upwards without dividing the Operation for large herniae. Case. I sac. I performed this operation upon a Mrs. Aaron, who had long been afflicted with a large irreducible umbilical hernia, which be- came strangulated. When I had divided the tendon, I was able, by very slight pressure, to return a portion of the protruded intestine, and she rapidly recovered. ' In some cases the intestine adheres so firmly to the mouth of the Adhesions, sac, that great care is requisite to avoid wounding it. The separa- tion of these adhesions in part must be effected with as little vio- lence as possible, by meaps of the finger, to allow of the safe divi- sion of the stricture. 1 In some instances, where there has been an opening formed by 1 absorption, or laceration of the hernial sac, the intestine, or omen- - turn escape from the sac through the aperture, and become stran- > gulated by the pressure from its edge. In these cases there is considerable danger, unless the operation be very carefully per- ( formed, as the viscera are exposed immediately the superficial fascia is divided. Should the adhesions be extensive and firm, the surgeon must be icontent with liberating the stricture, and not attempt to return the orotruded viscera. The intestine generally protruded in umbilical hernia, is a por- ion of the colon; the appendices epiploicse of which become more piickly altered than the intestine itself; and if much changed, they ihould be cut off rather than any risk incurred by leaving them to dough after the operation. l 2 Strangulation from opening in the sac. Part of the colon protruded.