FRACTURES OF THE KNEE. the union be found sufficiently firm to bear it, the passive motion is to be employed from day to day, until the flexion of the limb be complete. If passive motion be not used, it appears that the action of the extensor muscles would never return; for those who are kept in bed with the joint at rest, do not in many months acquire any power of bending or extending the limb: but when passive mo- tion is to be used, the patient is placed on a high seat and directed to swing the leg, by which motion is given to the rectus; and if the mind be then directed to the contraction of that muscle, State of the its powers will be gradually renewed. When the rectus muscle has musc'e' been shortened, and the upper portion of bone is drawn from the lower, all the disposition to action in that muscle ceases ; and it does not seem disposed to recover its voluntary action until it becomes again elongated, which is effected after the union of the ligament, by bending the knee : and from this point of elongation the muscle begins to contract. A young woman was brought into my house in her father’s arms ; and he said, “ I am obliged to carry her, for she has lost the use of her legs, having broken both her knee-pans eight months ago, and she has never been able to use her limbs since.” Passive motion was directed, and she was ordered to try to extend her legs after they had been bent by the surgeon. At first she could effect but little; however, by repeated trials, she gradually recovered the use of her limbs. Mr. John Hunter, who raised surgery into a science, and who seems to have been the first who attended to the principles on which the practice of surgery ought to be regulated, always dwelt most ably upon this subject in his lec- tures. Patients, from the pain which passive motion produces, and the slow return of action in the muscles, are indisposed to suffer the one, or to make trial of the other; but, without them, there can be no recovery. The degree of approximation of the bone is, as I have stated, a Degree of ap- matter of great consequence. The bone is rarely brought into p °’ a a 2