120 ON ULCERS. Case. Gouty habits. Ulcers with thickened edges. Ulcers with inverted edges. ointment, and it will generally heal. If the ulcer is not deep, you may cure this complaint without using the arsenical preparation, by merely painting the surface of thekore with a solution of the nitrate of silver. You must be cautious, however, in your manner of using this application. A gentleman once came to me with an ulcer of the kind of which I am now speaking, and which I painted in the manner described to you with a camel-hair brush. In the course of the day, when at Lloyd’s, he was asked by 6ome friends what was the matter with his nose; for they told him it was quite black; and, in point of fact, it was so. I was not aware, at the time, that a solution of the nitrate of silver would have produced that effect; and I merely mention the circumstance, that you may be on your guard. Deep ulcers, having a malignant aspect, often remain in the faces of old persons, without producing any ill consequences, though, from their appearance, they portend the most direful effects. To such sores, the best application is the lotion, composed of liquor calcis and calomel. In gouty habits, ulcers frequently form in joints, arising from inflammation caused by a deposition of the urate of soda. Persons will come to you with many joints open from this cause. A gentleman came to me from the country, thus circumstanced. Several of his joints were quite exposed, and the cartilages of some of them absorbed. I found in each of these joints a lump of the urate of soda; therefore, when it is necessary, you increase the openings through the skin, remove the urate of soda, that being the exciting cause of the disease. Occasionally, the thickened state of the edges of ulcers impedes the healing process. These edges must be adapted to their surfaces, and this may be done by means of the empl. galban. comp., which will remove the indurated cuticle, and stimulate the parts to action; if this, however, should not succeed, you may use the ungt. hydr. fort, or ungt. lyttae: or you may, with a Lancet, scarify the edges, and this method will often succeed when every other fails. The edges of sore3 are sometimes very much inverted; consti- tutional treatment, as well as local, is necessary here. With respect to local, the application of the nitrate of silver to the edges,