DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. 343 soon as it was reduced, the popliteal artery ceased to be com- pressed, and the pulsation in the anterior tibial artery was re- stored. The head of the tibia is sometimes dislocated backwards. Dislocation behind the condyles of the os femoris, producing the following backwards, appearances ; the limb shortened, the condyles of the os femoris projecting, the ligament of the patella depressed, and the leg bent forwards. PARTIAL LUXATION OF THE THIGH-BONE FROM THE SEMILUNAR CARTILAGES. Under extreme degrees of relaxation, or in cases in which there From relaxation, tas been increased secretion into a joint, the ligaments become so nuch lengthened, as to allow the cartilages to glide upon the urface of the tibia, and particularly when pressure is made by he thigh-bone on the edge of the cartilage. That excellent tractical surgeon, the late Mr. Hey, of Leeds, was the first who Mr. Hey’s learly described the symptoms and cause of these accidents, and uggested a mode of treatment which is ingenious, scientific, and enerally successful. The injury most frequently occurs when a erson in walking strikes his toe, with the foot everted, against ny projection, (as the fold of a carpet,) after which he imme- iately feels pain in the knee, which cannot be completely ex- uded. I have seen this accident also happen from a person aving suddenly turned in his bed, when the clothes not suffering le foot readily to turn with the body, the thigh-bone has slipped om its semilunar cartilage. I have also known it occur from a ldden twist of the knee inwards when the foot was turned out. The explanation of this accident is as follows: the semilunar Explanation cf irtilages, which receive the condyles of the os femoris, are united tlie » the tibia by ligaments, and when these ligaments become ex- emely relaxed and elongated, the cartilages are easily pushed om their situations by the condyles of the os femoris, which are len brought into contact with the head of the tibia ; and when