283 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. | rather upwards, and towards the sound thigh, occasionally rotating the limb. When the extension had been continued about ten minutes, the nausea produced by the tartar emetic was so exces- | sive, that the patient begged of us to desist until the morrow, ob- ; serving, he felt so bad that he was fearful of falling off the bed; this exclamation, it hardly need be said, was a stimulus to our pro- ceeding ; and in five minutes after, the limb was suddenly heard to snap into its original cavity. The patient was put to bed, a roller being applied round the pelvis. At the end of five days, he felt so well that he left his room ; and in a short time suffered no other inconvenience than stiffness in the joint. Although a dislocation into the foramen ovale may be occasion- ally reduced by attempts made in a very inappropriate direction, yet an instance has occurred that shews the mischief that may arise from an error in this respect. I subjoin the following. A boy, sixteen years old, had a dislocation of the thigh into the foramen ovale : he was placed upon his sound side, and an exten- sion of the superior part of the thigh was made perpendicularly; the surgeon then pressed down the knee, but the thigh being at that moment advanced, the head of the bone was thrown backwards, I and passed into the ischiatic notch ; from which situation it could i not be reduced. DISLOCATION BACKWARDS, OR INTO THE ISCHIATIC NOTCH. The space which is called the ischiatic notch, is bounded above and anteriorly by the ilium, posteriorly by the sacrum, and inferi- orly by the sacro-sciatic ligament. It is formed for the purpose of giving passage to the pyriformis muscle and to the sciatic nerve, as well as to the three arteries—the glutaei, the ischiatic, and the internal pudendal. In the natural position of the pelvis, it is situated posteriorly to the acetabulum and a little above its level. When the head of the bone is thrown into this space, it is placed backwards and upwards, with respect to the acetabulum; therefore, although I call this the dislocation backwards, it is Mischief from improper exten- sion. Case. Anatomical structure.