297 ON THE DISSECTION OF THIS DISEASE. with blood, so as to be varicose. The form of the swelling is that of the testicle, rounded upon its fore part, and flattened upon its it sides, rather than pyriform like hydrocele. The epididymis, under the greatest enlargement, can be distinguished in its swelling from I the testis by a line of separation between them. The disease is attended with obscure fluctuation, but it is rather a yielding at the part compressed with the finger, than an extensive fluctuation from one extremity of the swelling to the other. If the diseased part be firmly compressed, it gives the sensation of squeezing the testis; it gradually increases until it acquires great size, and then its weight becomes very inconvenient, and the disease produces .considerable uneasiness in the loins, from the testicle stretching the nerve of the spermatic plexus. On these accounts, viz. the size it acquires, and the pain vchich its weight produces, the patient becomes anxious for its removal. I have never seen this disease affect the spermatic cord to the abdomen, or extend its influence beyond the testicle and epididymis. ON THE DISSECTION OF THIS DISEASE. On cutting into the part after its removal, the tunica vaginalis is found to be a little thicker, and the tunica albuginea is much denser than natural. The testis in its interior, is filled with numerous Numerous cysts of various sizes, some small as the heads of pins, others of cysts. the size of peas, and the largest about an inch in diameter: as they vary in size, so the fluid which they contain differs in appearance— the smallest contain a watery fluid, transparent, and without colour: „ Contain the larger appear to be filled with serum; and the largest, when different opened, discharge mucus with some pus, as they have undergone a tluiJs' partial suppuration. I have seen in these cysts a true hydatid contained in the fluid, like that which is frequently found in the liver. The cysts are highly vascular, and their appearance is very Cystg vascuiar beautiful when the serum is seen through a highly vascular cyst. The glandular structure of the testis seems to be in a great measure destroyed. The appearances in the epididymis are of a similar kind, ' only that the cysts do not acquire the same magnitude.