263 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. an additional portion of cartilage, which fills up a depression in the bone in the inferior and anterior part of the cavity. The ligaments are two: the capsular arises from the edge of the Ligaments, acetabulum, and passing over the head and neck of the bone, is inserted into the cervix of the os femoris at the root of the tro- chanter major. It is much more extensive on the anterior than on the posterior portion of the neck of the bone. The inner side of this ligament is a secreting surface, producing the synovia; and a reflected portion of it towards the head of the bone is also pro- vided with a similar secreting surface. On the anterior surface of the neck of the thigh-bone, the cap- sular ligament is received into a line, which extends from the tro- chanter major to the trochanter minor. The synovial secreting surface is reflected towards the head of the bone, and the ligament is reflected close on the neck of the bone, to form the periosteum; whilst its fibres are intersected with the common periosteum, below the insertion of the ligament, into the bone. On the posterior surface, the capsular ligament is received upon the neck of the bone, nearly midway between the edge of the head of the bone and the trochanter major. The common periosteum on the neck of the bone incorporates with the reflected liga- ment to form the periosteum of the neck of the bone within the capsule*. The ligamentum teres is contained within the capsular ligament, and proceeds from a depression in the lower and inner part of the acetabulum, to be fixed in a hollow upon the inner side of the thigh-bone : it has a tendency to prevent dislocations in all direc- tions, but particularly the dislocation downwards; for when this dislocation occurs, the thighs are widely separated from each other, as in fencing; and the head of the thigh-bone would be in danger of slipping from its socket, were it not prevented by this liga- * Query.—Can this ligamentous periosteum be one cause of a ligamentous union in fractures within the joints ? I believe that when a union of the neck of the thigh-bone is met with, it must be in a case in which this ligamentous sheath of the cervix has not been torn.