203 WOUNDS OF THE STOMACH. - “ I saw him about half an hour after the accident. His whole appearance was then much altered; his countenance being quite collapsed, and covered with a cold sweat, while the pulse at his wrist was scarcely perceptible; he had also a constant hiccough, a frequent retching and vomiting of blood, and a considerable dis- charge of blood, and other fluids, from the external wound. “ From the place and manner in which the sword had entered, and the symptoms that followed, I was led to conjecture that the stomach was wounded; and that this was certainly the case, I was soon convinced, on examining the fluid discharged by the external wound, and finding in it several small pieces of meat in a soft di- gested state, together with some particles of barley. “ He had complained of thirst, and some barley-water had been given him to drink; but this had been immediately thrown up after passing the oesophagus. Other mild fluids were now tried, as were likewise a common saline draught, in an effervescent state, and some thebaic tincture, but with no better effect; and they were all instantly rejected, tinged with blood. “ The retching and action of the stomach continuing to be very violent, and the patient complaining, at the same time, of a lump, or dead weight, as he termed it, in his inside, he was desired to drink some warm water; this was soon thrown up, accompanied with a good deal of barley in solid grains, with the surface slightly broken, and some pieces of meat in a half-digested state. More water being given him, it was quickly returned, tinged with blood, but, otherwise, nearly as pure as when swallowed. “ I now proposed that we should avoid giving any thing farther by the mouth ; but, as the spasms and hiccough were still very frequent, an emollient clyster was administered, by which a consi- derable quantity of faeces was discharged. Soon after this, another clyster, containing twelve ounces of barley-water, and3ij of thebaic tincture, was thrown up, and the greater part of it retained. Warm fomentations were likewise applied externally ; the surface of the wound was loosely dressed ; and he was desired to lie as much as m