25 0 DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. Compound dis- locations. Danger. Injury to mus- cles, blood-ves- sels, iStc. cepting those of the upper cervical vertebrae,—dislocations of which are said to have occasionally occurred. The injuries of the spine, which produce paralysis of the lower extremities, arise from fractured portions of the bodies of the vertebrae pressing upon, and sometimes lacerating, the medulla spinalis. In compound dislocation, not only the articulatory surfaces of the bone are displaced, but the cavity of the joint is laid open by a di- vision of the skin and the capsular ligament. The immediate effect of compound dislocation is to occasion the extravasation of blood into the joint, and to allow the escape of the synovia. Compound dislocations are attended with great danger, and for the following reason :— When a joint is opened, inflammation of the lacerated ligaments and synovial surface speedily succeeds; in a few hours suppura- tion begins, and granulations arise from the surface of the secreting membrane; which, being of the mucous kind, is more disposed to the suppurative, than to the adhesive inflammation. But the same process does not immediately ensue upon the extremity of the bone, because it is covered by the articular cartilage. This cartilage, before the cavity fills with granulations, becomes absorbed, by an ulcerative process instituted on the ends of the bones, but some- times beginning from the synovial surface. The bone inflames,' the cartilage becomes vdcerated, numerous abscesses are formed in different parts of the joint, and at length granulations spring from the extremities of the bones deprived of their cartilages, and fill up the cavity; generally these granulations become ossified, and anchylosis succeeds; but sometimes they remain of a softer texture, and some degree of motion in the joint is gradually re- gained. This process of filling up joints requires great general as well as local efforts; a high degree of irritation is produced, and if the constitution be weak, the patient, to preserve his life, is sometimes obliged to submit to amputation. In addition to the above, in compound dislocations the violence necessarily inflicted on the parts, the injury of the muscles and