OF THE INCISED WOUND. 1G9 culum, and then tied with a very fine ligature ; one end of which I should afterwards be cut off, that no more space than is absolutely necessary may be occupied by the thread or silk. So soon as the bleeding ceases, the coagulated blood is to be completely sponged away from the surface and edges of the wound, the edges are to be brought together, and a strip of lint oi- lmen moistened with the blood, is to be placed on the part in the direction of the wound, when the blood, by coagulating, glues the [edges together in the most efficient and natural manner; adhesive plaister is to be applied over the lint, with spaces between to allow of the escape of blood or serum. In a few hours, inflammation arises, and fibrin becomes effused I upon the surfaces and edges of the wound, by which they become cemented. In a few days, vessels shoot into the fibrin, effused by the in- flammation ; and it becomes organized with arteries and veins, and [after a time, with absorbents and nerves; thus the structure of the part is restored. (If the wound be in a muscular part, more especially in trans- i verse wounds of muscles, it is required that the position of the -'limb be carefully attended to, that the wounded muscle may be »[relaxed as much as possible, and its separated portions approxi- imated. Thus, if the biceps muscle were divided in the arm, the limb must be bent at right angles; and if the triceps be injured, ! extension will be necessary. But if the wound has happened in a muscular part, which is not I supported, as in the cheek, a suture is required to preserve ap- proximation ; the thread employed should be as fine as possible, and only as many as are absolutely necessary, to produce the de- sired effect, should be inserted. If a wound be angular, and of considerable extent, a suture at the angle is desirable, or the edges will seldom be returned in their proper situation. It is quite a mistake to suppose that sutures are injurious, and that they should be never used; for a wound often heals better How closed. Organized. Wound of mus- cle. Sutures required. Not injurious.