OPERATION FOR POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 223 operation for aneurism, complained when I visited him (which was in the evening of the same day) of a weight in the foot: this induced me to look at the limb, which probably I should not otherwise have done, and I found that the foot was quite cold and benumbed, which was occasioned by there being no fire in the room at a time when the weather was very cold. I sat down by the bed-side of the patient, and kept rubbing his leg and foot with a warm flannel till heat was restored to the limb. Ever since that time I have wrapped the limb up in a piece of flannel or a stocking, and sometimes put jars filled with hot water to the feet, particularly if the weather is cold, then the part will be preserved gently wann. I once saw a patient lost by the folly of a dresser at the other A dresser’s j hospital. In the evening after the operation, seeing the limb a little ^posedT swollen, he said to the sister, “ Suppose you apply the white wash (liq. plumbi. super, and water) to this?” On the following morning gangrene came on, in consequence of the cold produced by the evaporation; power of the circulation in the limb became destroyed, and the patient died. The means by which the circulation is carried on when the circulation femoral artery is tied is by the arteria profunda; from this, maintained, anastomosing vessels are sent off, which communicate with branches from the anterior tibial. It sometimes happens that the aneurism Aneurism will be reproduced by means of a vessel which comes off above the reproduced, part where the ligature is applied, and enters the artery just above the aneurismal sac, and thus reproduces the aneurism. I scarcely should have mentioned this to you, if I had not seen an instance of this a short time ago, in a man at Guy’s, who had been operated on by Mr. Key for popliteal aneurism, and who was discharged cured. This person came back to the hospital with another swelling in the ham, and a pulsation in it, in the same spot as the former aneurism: he had suffered considerable pain; the integuments of the knee were very rigid, and the bone, from the long-continued pressure on it, had become in a diseased state. I amputated the limb, and found the aneurism reproduced of the original size, and an artery could be distinctly traced going from a little above the tumour up the thigh.