OF CONGENITAL HERNIA. ] 1 .r) When the inguinal hernia in the female has not descended through the external ring, it may become strangulated, and occa- sion fatal consequences, as in the male, without its existence having been recognised during the life of the patient. A patient was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital, under the care of Sir Gilbert Blane, with symptoms of strangulated hernia; but upon being closely questioned by Sir Gilbert, she denied the ; existence of any tumour at the groin, navel, or elsewhere, and the case was consequently treated as one of inflammation. The woman died; and Sir Gilbert, supposing that some concealed hernia might have been the cause of her death, inspected the body, and found a small strangulated inguinal hernia on the right side, which did not protrude an inch from the internal ring. When necessary, the operation in this case is similar to that re- quired for the same disease in the male. I have never seen direct inguinal hernia in the female. OF CONGENITAL HERNIA. In this hernia the protruded parts have not any proper peritoneal sac, as the common inguinal hernia, but are contained in the tunica vaginalis of the testicle. All herniae seated in this cavity are not, however, congenital, as such protrusion may occur at the adult period for the first time. This hernia is originating from the descent of the testicle in the foetus. Usually about the seventh month, the testicles, which are up to that period seated upon the loins, begin to descend into the scrotum. At this time, a strong ligament is found connected with the inferior part of the testis and epididimis, and passing to the scrotum in the same direction as the spermatic cord is afterwards placed; it is called the gubernaculum, and appears to guide the testicle into the situation provided for it. 1 The testicle and its vessels are covered by peritoneum, except lust where the latter enter at the posterior part of the former. In its descent, the testicle takes with it a portion of peritoneum, i 2 In the inguinal canal. Case. Operation. No proper sac. Origin. Descent of the testicle.