90 ON GRANULATION. Its formation. Process of nature in unit- ing divided parts. Character of granulations. say that a granulation is a newly-formed part, generally red in colour, and having the power of secreting pus. The mode in which granulation is produced is as follows:—and you will find it very similar to adhesion, but differing from that process in one respect. When an abscess has been opened, or when a wound has been produced, if the abscess be not immediately closed, or if the edges of the wound have not been brought together, inflammation is excited, and this inflammation occasions an effusion of the fibrin of the blood upon the surface of the wound. This fibrin is poured out in a layer which covers the surface of the wound. The layer of fibrin soon becomes vascular, for blood-vessels, which are elonga- tions of the vasa vasorum of the divided vessels, are forced by the action of the heart into the fibrin which has been deposited, and this layer consequently becomes vascular. The difference between the mode of union by adhesion and by granulation, is, that in the latter the vessels shoot to the surface of the layer which has been thrown out, terminating by open mouths on the surface of the newly-formed substance, and secreting pus, at the same time that a layer of lymph, or fibrin, as it is more correctly termed, is effused. The fibrin which is poured out, besides this purulent secretion from the vessels, forms a second layer, into which the vessels shoot as before. The vessels supporting the first layer are the means of supporting the second layer, where the vessels terminate as before, by open mouths on the surface of the substance effused. In this manner layer after layer is formed until the cavity becomes filled. The characters by which granulations are distinguished are these; their surfaces are uneven; they are generally red in colour, and they secrete matter. I know not whether you have followed me or not, but this process may be easily explained. Suppose we open an abscess ; the result is, that adhesive inflammation is produced in the internal surface of the cavity. A layer of adhesive matter is in this way thrown out, and if the sides of the abscess are brought to- gether by passing a roller round it, we may often prevent the future formation of matter, as I have before had occasion to explain to you.