Treatment. Diagnostic marks of this accident. 454 FRACTURES OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. Fourthly. When the arm is extended, the lower end of the os humeri advances upon the ulna, so as to be felt upon the anterior part of the joint. I saw a girl, a patient of Mr. Steel, of Berkhampstead, who, by a fall upon her elbow, had fractured the olecranon, and also broken the internal condyle of the os humeri, the point of the broken bone having almost penetrated the skin : the cubital nerve had been also injured, for the little finger and half the ring finger were benumbed. The cause of this accident is a fall upon the point of the elbow. It usually occurs in youth, before the epiphysis is completely ossified ; although I have seen it, but less frequently, in age. It is often mistaken for dislocation. Its treatment consists in applying a roller round the elbow- joint, to keep the bone in complete apposition ; in wetting it fre- quently with spirits of wine and water; in bending the limb at a right angle, and supporting it in a sling; and in beginning with passive motion, in the child, at the expiration of three weeks after the accident, and at the end of a month in the adult, to prevent loss of motion in the joint. FRACTURES OF THE EXTERNAL CONDYLE OF THE OS HUMERI. Th is accident is readily detected by the following symptoms. Swelling upon the external condyle, and pain upon pressure; the motions of the elbow-joint, both of extension and flexion, are per- formed with pain : but the principal diagnostic sign is, the crepitus produced by the rotatory motion of the hand and radius. If the portion of the fractured condyle be large, it is drawn a little back- wards, and carries the radius with it; but if the portion be small, this circumstance does not occur. We have two excellent pre- parations of this accident in the Museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital, and in neither case has there been any other than liga- mentous union. In one preparation, in which the external condyle is split obliquely, the bone is somewhat thickened ; but although this accident had obviously happened long before death, no union