fractures; near the shoulder-joint. Case. Diagnostic marks. 440 and the head of the bone falls with it into the axilla ; the shoulder in this case falls ; there is a hollow below the acromion from the sinking of the deltoid muscle, and the head of the os humeri can be felt in the axilla. A young lady was thrown from a gig, by the fall of the horse, in the Strand; and being carried to her house, a surgeon in the neighbourhood was sent for, who told her the shoulder was dislo- cated ; by extension all the appearances of dislocation were re- moved, and he bound up the arm. On the following morning he requested me to see the case, as the arm he said was again dislo- cated. On examination I found the head of the bone in the axilla, and the shoulder so fallen and flattened as to give the accident many of the characters of dislocation; however, by elevating the shoulder, in raising the arm at the elbow, and the head of the bone from the axilla, it was immediately replaced ; but when I gave up this support the limb instantly sank again. I then rotated the elbow, and pressing the coracoid process of the scapula with my Angers, by grasping the top of the shoulder directly felt a crepitus. Having satisfactorily ascertained the nature of the accident, I placed a thick cushion in the axilla, and drawing the shoulder into its natural position, secured it by the application of a clavicle- * bandage, and in seven weeks it became united without deformity. The degree of deformity produced by this accident, depends upon the extent of laceration of a ligament, which passes from the under part of the spine of the scapula to the glenoid cavity, and which is not generally described in anatomical books. If this be torn, the glenoid cavity and the head of the os humeri fall deeply into the axilla; but the displacement is much less if this remain whole. The diagnostic marks of this accident are three: first, the facility with which the parts are replaced ; secondly, the immediate fall of the head of the bone into the axilla, when the extension is removed ; and, thirdly, the crepitus which is felt at the extremity of the coracoid process of the scapula, when the arm is rotated. The best method of discovering the crepitus is, for the surgeon's