97 INGUINAL HERNIA. stomach in the jejunum, the patient will die in consequence of the small surface for the absorption of chyle being inadequate to pro- duce sufficient nourishment. If the opening be in the lower part of the ilium, or in the colon, then the patient may recover, as there is but little interruption to nutrition. A man about fifty years of age was admitted into Guy’s Hos- Case, pital with a strangulated umbilical hernia, which sloughed, and | occasioned an artificial anus. As he was recovering from the effects of the strangulation and sloughing, and was allowed to take food in any considerable quantity, it was observed that part of what solids he ate passed out at the artificial anus, within half an hour after he had swallowed them, and that fluids passed out in ten minutes after they had been taken into the stomach. Although he took sufficient food to support a healthy person, he wasted rapidly, and died in three weeks. On examining his body after death, and tracing the jejunum, the lower part of that intestine was found entering the hernial sac, and in it the opening was situated. The other viscera were healthy. When an artificial anus has been formed, care must be taken to From inversion guard against any inversion of the intestine at the artificial of t,ieintest"K- opening, as such an occurrence will most likely prevent the per- fect recovery of the patient, by rendering the false opening per- manent. A patient of Mr. Cowell’s, in St. Thomas’s Hospital, underwent Case, the operation for a strangulated hernia; the intestine was found to be gangrenous, and the consequence was the formation of an artificial anus. For three weeks after the operation, the faeces passed in part by the artificial opening, and in part by the natural aperture, but most by the latter; at this period the intestine became inverted, and protruded at the artificial opening; after which the faeces were entirely discharged by the false passage. The man lived eleven years after this, but always discharged his stools by the artificial anus. If a portion of the colon has been strangulated, and the patient Appendices be fat, the appendices epiploic® are sometimes found much more amoved! VOL. II. H