WOUNDS OF THE HEART. 216 in his hand, slipped down, and his bayonet entered his left side, between the sixth and seventh ribs, upon the superior edge of the latter. He was some yards distant from the gate at which he was posted, and being challenged, he returned to open it, with the bayonet still remaining in the wound; he was incapable of with- drawing it himself, but the person coming in extracted it for him. I was called to him within five minutes of the accident; he was then in a state of syncope, the extremities cold, and his pulse scarcely perceptible. In about the space of a quarter of an hour, he gradually revived, did not complain of any severe pain, and ex- pressed, ‘ that he believed he was more frightened than hurt.’ I examined the wound with much diligence, but could not trace its extent further than one inch and a quarter, though it was evident that the bayonet had penetrated two inches : the haemorrhage was very inconsiderable. His wound was dressed; he was conveyed to the military hospital, and put to bed; he w'as incapable of lying on his right side, but slept tolerably well. On visiting him the following morning, he complained of lancinating pains extending from the wounded part across the chest, and of severe fugitive pains in different parts of the abdomen ; his pulse w'as quick and thready, and tongue white and dry. These symptoms led to a suspicion, that the pleura costalis at least was wounded, though no ' opening could be ascertained extending into the cavity of the chest. Jxvj. of blood were taken from his arm, a solution of sulphate of magnesia administered, and fomentations applied to the abdomen. He was obliged to be supported in bed nearly in a sitting posture, as respiration became much impeded when per- fectly horizontal: in this position he appeared to breathe with free- dom. In the evening, he expressed himself in every respect much relieved; his pulse was less quick, and had lost its thready sens- ation ; tongue more moist; his medicine had operated moderately. On the following morning, I found he had passed a good night, his pulse was calm and steady, scarcely quicker than natural, and the tongue quite moist; the lancinating pains had subsided, and he merely complained of a trifling pain in the wounded part; this was