TREATMENT AFTER THE OPERATION. 101 Case. The most remarkable example of this kind I ever met with, was the third day, and afterwards daily. The sutures may be removed on the fourth and fifth day; but the patient must be kept in bed until the wound is entirely closed. When the operation has been performed at an early period after the strangulation has taken place, the patient generally does well; but when much time has elapsed from the strangulation of the hernia before the performance of the operation, dangerous symptoms frequently arise. Sometimes the intestine does not recover its function, when the vomiting and constipation continue, and the patient dies. Sometimes peritoneal inflammation continues, in which case the abdomen is extremely tender and tense, although the bowels are open, and the life of the patient is soon destroyed. The best means of relieving this inflammation are by local and general bleeding, fomentations, purgatives, and extremely low diet. Occasionally the patient is attacked with a violent diarrhoea, which continues for many days, producing so great a state of de- bility as to prevent recovery. In such cases, the treatment I have found most efficacious, consists in exhibiting small doses of opium frequently, and the employment of injections of starch and opium, with a light but nutritious diet, as gruel, or milk, with isinglass, &c. In a few instances I have known a troublesome hiccough con- tinue for several days after the operation, but entirely unconnected with gangrene, being the result of peritoneal inflammation. in a gentleman at Maidstone, for whom I performed an operation upon a large strangulated intestinal hernia. The symptoms had been unusually severe, and inflammation had taken place in the peritoneum. The abdomen continued tender to pressure for se- veral days after the operation, and the hiccough continued until the sixth day. The patient was bled and purged freely, and he eventually recovered. As this symptom depends upon inflamma- tion of the peritoneum when gangrene has not taken place, the proper means of relieving it arc the same as directed for the in- Operation .uc- eessful. Sometimes not. Peritoneal in- flammation. Diarrhoea. Hiccough.