7 GENERAL DESCRIPTION OE HERNIA. is found to be a covering; in another species, the dense tendon of a muscle is the envelope ; while in a third variety, we find both these coverings combined. Several hernial sacs are sometimes found in the same subject at Several sacs, different parts; an instance of this is subjoined, that occasioned a difficulty in determining which was to be the subject of operation. Sometimes more than one hernia exists in the same situation. I have a preparation of two hernial sacs at each groin, with another in an incipient state on the left side ; and the subject of one of the plates in this part of the work *, represents two lierniae on one side and one on the other. When this is the case, they seldom are all at the same time in a state of protrusion, and the second sac is often formed after the cure of the first, two examples of which will be hereafter related. A hernial sac is sometimes burst by a blow. When this hap- Burst, pens, its contents escape out of the sac, and become placed under the contiguous skin, so that the viscera require to be returned into the sac before they can pass into the abdomen. I attended a case of inguinal hernia under these circumstances, with Mr. Bricken- den, a surgeon in Southwark : the viscera had escaped under the skin of the scrotum, through a hole in the fore part of the sac, and were obliged to be returned into the sac before the reduction of the hernia could be effected. The protruded parts are not always, however, contained in a No sac. sac; for, when hernia arises from a mal-formation of the muscles, attended with unnatural apertures in them, these holes are not always covered by peritoneum. This was the case in a hernia protruding through the diaphragm which I met with some years ago ; the colon, the viscus that had escaped into the chest, was lying upon the lung without any peritoneal sac. This exception, however, does not universally hold in the diaphragmatic herniae, for I have known one instance in which the viscera were included in a process of peritoneum. The hernia congenita has not a peri- toneal covering distinct from the tunica vaginalis testis, except in * See Sir Astlcy’s large Work on Hernia.