119 DISLOCATIONS OF THE OS HUMERI. vanced age, and in those who are loaded with fat; or who have, by constant exertion, rendered their muscles excessively large. DISSECTION OF THE DISLOCATION INTO THE AXILLA. I have dissected two cases of recent dislocation downwards. A sailor fell from the yard-arm on the ship’s deck, injured his skull, ! and dislocated the arm into the axilla. He was brought into St. Thomas’s Hospital in a dying state, and expired immediately after he was put into his bed. On the following day I obtained permission to examine his shoulder, which I removed from the body for the purpose of obtaining a more minute examination ; and the following were the appearances which I found. On removing the integuments, a quantity of extravasated blood pre- sented itself in the cellular membrane, lying immediately under the skin, and in that which covers the axillary plexus of nerves, as well as in the interstices of the muscles, extending as far as the cervix of the humerus, below the insertion of the subscapularis muscle. The axillary artery, and plexus of nerves, were thrown out of their course by the dislocated head of the bone, which was pushed backwards upon the subscapularis muscle. The deltoid muscle was sunk with the head of the bone. The supra and infra- spinatus were stretched over the glenoid cavity and inferior costa of the scapula. The teres major and minor had undergone but little change of position ; but the latter near its insertion, was surrounded by extravasated blood. The coraco-brachialis was uninjured. In a space between the axillary plexus and coraco- brachialis, the dislocated head of the bone, covered by its smooth articular cartilage and by a thin layer of cellular membrane, appeared. The capsular ligament was torn on the whole length of the inner side of the glenoid cavity, which would have admitted a much larger body than the head of the os humeri through the opening. The tendon of the subscapularis muscle, which covers the ligament, was also extensively torn. The opening of the liga- ment, by which the tendon of the long head of the biceps passed, E E 2 Appearances upon the dissec- tion of the limb.