374 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. Loose pieces of bone. Integuments. Reduction. the anterior tibial artery be wounded, it must be secured by liga- ture. The extremity of the bone is to be washed with warm water, as the least extraneous matter admitted into the joint will produce and support a suppurative process; and the utmost care should be taken to remove every portion of it adhering to the end of the bone. If the bone be shattered, the finger is to be passed into the joint, and the detached pieces are to be removed: but this is to be done in the most gentle manner possible, so as not to occasion unnecessary irritation. If the wound be so small as to admit the finger with difficulty, and if small pieces of bone can be felt, the integuments should be divided with a scalpel, to allow of such portions being removed without violence; the incision should be so made as to leave the joint with as much covering of integument as possible. The integuments are sometimes nipped into the joint by the projecting bone; and then it cannot be reduced without making an incision, to allow the skin to be drawn from under the bone; and when the edges of the incised wound are afterwards brought together, no additional evil arises from the extension of the wound. The mode of reducing the bone is in other respects, similar to that which 1 have already described when speaking of simple dis- location ; by bending the leg upon the thigh, so as to relax the muscles before the extension is made. When the bone has been reduced, a piece of lint is to be dipped in the patient’s blood, and applied wet over the wound, upon which the blood coagulates, and forms the most natural, and, as far as I have seen, the best cover- ing for the wound. A many-tailed bandage is then applied, the portions of which should not be sewn together, but passed under the leg, so that any one piece may be removed when it becomes stiff; and by fixing another to its end, the application may always be renewed without any disturbance to the limb ; this bandage is to be kept constantly wet with spirits of wine and water. A hollow splint, with foot-piece at right angles, is to be appplied on the outer side of the leg, in the dislocation inwards, and the leg is to it to f if] t'Ci I" |> a« •PI 1 tf pt In #n tin las tfeai [os ’ if 1 aul life 1 tliii ! (Hi II • I til ifiei ' ini itn i ltd to