286 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. Case. measuring from the pubes to the knee, and the extension is to be made with the pulleys. Whilst this is in progress, an assistant pulls the napkin at the upper part of the thigh with one hand, rests the other upon the brim of the pelvis, and thus lifts the bone, as it is drawn towards the acetabulum, over its lip. For the nap- kin I have seen a round towel very conveniently substituted, and this was carried under the upper part of the thigh, and over the shoulders of an assistant, who then rested both his hands on the pelvis, as he raised his body, and lifted the thigh. Although the preceding is the method in which this dislocation is most easily reduced, yet I have seen a different mode practised; and I shall mention it here, as it shows how the muscles opposing the pulleys will draw the head of the bone to its socket, when it is |y lifted from the cavity into which it has fallen. A man, aged twenty-five, was admitted into Guy’s Hospital under the care of Mr. Lucas; upon examination, the thigh was found dislocated backwards; the limb scarcely differed in length from the other, being not more than half an inch shorter ; the 4 groin appeared depressed; the trochanter was resting a little behind the acetabulum, but inclined upon it; the knee and tl( foot were turned inwards, and the head of the bone could, in this if case, be felt behind the acetabulum. An extension was made by pulleys in a right line with the body ; at the same time the trochanter major was thrust forward with the hand, and the bone returned in about two minutes into its socket with a violent snap. I have already mentioned, that I have seen no instance of a dislo- cation downwards and backwards; and when I state, that I have been an attentive observer of the practice of our hospitals for thirty years, was also for many years in the habit of daily seeing the poor of London at my house early in the morning, and have had a considerable share of private practice, I may be allowed to observe, that if such a case does ever occur, it must be extremely rare. I cannot help thinking, also, that some anatomical erroi must have given rise to this opinion, as in the dislocation down