102 TREATMENT AFTER THE OPERATION. Tlie operation does not pre- vent a future protrusion. Truss to be again applied. Removal of the sac recommend- ed. Case. flammation of this membrane, as local and general bleeding, pur- gatives, &c. The performance of the operation for strangulated hernia does not prevent the future descent of the intestine or omentum, but perhaps renders the patient more liable to its recurrence, as the mouth of the sac is by the operation considerably enlarged. It is, therefore, perfectly necessary before the patient be allowed to get up, or use any exertion, that he should be fitted with a truss, which will effectually prevent any protrusion, by keeping the mouth of the sac closed, otherwise he may in a short time again become the subject of strangulated hernia. When the truss is first applied, a dosil of lint should be placed under the pad, to protect the recently healed wound. In consequence of a radical cure not being produced by the operation I have described, some persons have recommended the removal of the hernial sac by excision or ligature, or that it should be returned into the abdomen. In a patient of Mr. Holt’s, at Tottenham, I had an excellent opportunity of seeing the effects of removing the sac by excision. A woman w'ho, for several years, had been subject to a femoral hernia, applied to Mr. Holt, on account of the swelling having be- come so painful and tender as to prevent her from following her ordinary occupations, although the bowels appeared to act very regularly. Mr. Holt requested me to visit the patient with him, and I made many ineffectual attempts to reduce the hernia, and in a few days afterwards I recommended Mr. Holt to operate, as the symptoms had not in the least subsided. On opening the hernial sac, a small portion of intestine was found at the mouth of the sac, inflamed, and adherent to it. Mr. Holt carefully separated the adhesions, and returned the intestine into the abdomen. The sac itself being but little attached to the surrounding parts, I requested Mr. Holt to allow me to remove it, which I did, close to the mouth of the sac. I then closed the orifice hy sutures, and the external wound was treated in the usual way. On the sixth day, the liga- tures came away, and the wound was closed on the tenth. I saw