ON WOUNDS 01' THE BRAIN. 178 Case. appearance; they were, therefore, touched over slightly, every other morning, with the sulphas cupri, which occasioned the wound to contract daily, and, by the latter end of February, it was completely cicatrized. On account of losing so large a portion of bone, the brain could be distinctly seen pulsating through the scalp. He lost no blood from the arm during the cure, nor did any bad symptoms occur. George Freeman, aged eighteen years, was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital, July 2nd, 1811, under the care of Mr. Birch, having a fungus tumour arising from the brain. The history of the case was as follows: Seven weeks before, while he was grazing a horse near Tunbridge Wells, he fell asleep, during which time the horse (he supposes) trod upon his head; the blow rendered him senseless, and he remained in this state till he was found by some men, and conveyed home. Immediately after the accident, May the 20th, upon his being put to bed in a comatose state, he was bled largely from the arm ; and in the evening, remaining in the same state, also having a great deal of swelling on the scalp, the cupping glasses were applied, of which he was sensible. On the following morning a crucial incision was made through the whole of the swelling, from which there issued a portion of blood and brain. A large piece of the os frontis had penetrated through the dura mater, nearly an inch into the substance of the brain; which, being removed, he became perfectly sensible when spoken to, and so continued: but the faeces and urine passed away involuntarily. Every thing appeared to do well, until the fungus cerebri* made its appearance, and gave much trouble; it was repeatedly cut away, and pressure applied; which not only produced great pain in the head, but occasioned sickness and vomiting, which immediately ceased when the pressure was removed. About the 15th of June, he lost his appetite, became very sick and faint upon the least exertion ; when the bark was given to him, and continued till he left the Wells. * There were exuberant granulations from the cerebrum.