WOUNDS OF PARTICULAR ARTERIES. 193 If it be wounded in the middle of the thigh, in the mode which In the middle of I have described in the case of a relation of Mr. Saumarez, a large U'e th's1'' swelling will immediately form, and the artery will be deeply situated, under a large coagulum. A free incision must be made Treatment, to give the surgeon ample room to proceed in securing the wounded vessel, a tourniquet being first applied. The direction of the in- cision will be that required in the operation for popliteal aneurism, only it must be more extensive. The coagulum, which is then exposed, must be scooped out from the wound by the fingers, and the parts be cleanly sponged. The tourniquet is then to be loosened, and the aperture in the vessel will be directly seen, when the tour- niquet is to be again tightened, and two ligatures are to be placed n the artery, one above, and the other below the wound, an end if each thread being cut off; the edges of the wound are to be ipproximated, so as to favour the union by adhesion. It is always right in these cases to divide the artery, between he ligatures. OF THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. This vessel is so protected by the condyles of the os femoris, Rarely wounded, nd so concealed behind the bone, that it is rarely lacerated, and hen it is so, the wound must be highly dangerous, as it will be robably complicated with a division of the sciatic nerve. It was a case of this accident which first attracted my attention • surgery, and which taught me its value. A foster brother of mine, named John Love, aged about thirteen Case. ;ars, was playing and fell, as a waggon was passing, and one of e wheels of the waggon went over the back of his knee, as he y with his face to the ground. The waggon was stopped, and hen he was drawn from under it, a stream of blood directly burst im his ham; a handkerchief was tied tightly over the wound, d he was put upon the waggon, and was carried home in a faint- er state. Different surgeons in the neighbourhood were sent for ; t when they heard the nature of the case they all made excuses;