STRANGULATED HERNIA. 70 Strangulated omental hernia. Post mortem appearances. Seat of stricture. matter, but chiefly to flatus in the cavity of the intestine. The portion of intestine below the structure is, on the contrary, re- markably contracted in diameter, and free from every appearance of inflammation. In strangulated omental hernia, the symptoms are much less violent than in the intestinal species. The vomiting is not so fre- quent, the pain in the tumour inconsiderable, the tension not so great over the abdomen, and the constipation by no means so complete; for stools can, in general, be procured during the whole duration of the disease, both by glysters and by cathartics, until the peritoneal covering of the intestines participates in the inflammation. The hiccoughs are violent and constant from the dragging effect on the stomach, and the pulse, though small and frequent, is not so remarkably small and thready as in the intesti- nal hernia. In this species inflammation occasionally takes place on the skin, though more rarely than in intestinal hernia; and when an extensive slough is thrown off, it is attended with much less constitutional irritation. On examination after death from strangulated omental hernia, the omentum is found scarcely changed from its natural appear- ance, its colour is a little, and but a little, darker than usual. I have found it in some cases, even during the operation, ex- tremely offensive to the smell. There is scarcely any fluid in the sac ; though the cavity of the abdomen is inflamed, and the intes- tines slightly adhering to each other, they never appear to have suffered so much as from intestinal hernia. On examining the seat of the strangulation in inguinal hernia, it will sometimes be found at the abdominal ring, which from its un- yielding nature has operated like a tight cord upon the protruded omentum or intestine, when more of these abdominal viscera have passed down than the aperture would readily admit or allow to return. This is the principal point of strangulation in old and large hernia; but it is more commonly seated at the internal ring, at the place where the spermatic cord first quits the abdomen. The strangulating pressure is here made by the internal oblique