335 DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. nion exceedingly overlaps, and that it is very feeble; shewing .hat I have already mentioned, that a fracture thus circumstanced as the ossific deposition only on that side where the inflammation ras preserved by the pressure of one bone on the other. This ireparation may be seen in the Anatomical Museum, St. Thomas’s lospital. To prevent this horrid distortion and imperfect union, two cir- umstances are to be strictly observed : the one is, to elevate the ;nee very much over the double inclined plane; and, the other, to ilace the patient in a sitting position, supporting him by pillows luring the process of the union. The degree of elevation of the tody which is required, will be about forty-five degrees, but it may te readily ascertained by observing the approximation of the frac- ured extremities of the bones; and this position is requisite for elaxing the psoas and iliacus muscles, and thus preventing the levation of the upper part of the bone. In no other manner can he great deformity I have described, be prevented. When, by his posture, the extremities of the bones are brought into proper ipposition, and all projections of the upper portion are removed, iither the splints may be applied which are commonly used in racture of the thigh-bone; or, what is better, a strong leathern >elt, lined with some soft material, should, by means of several itraps, be buckled around the limb, and be confined by means of a strap around the pelvis. Structure the knee. Bone. DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. The broad surfaces of bone by which the os femoris rests upon he tibia tends to prevent the ready dislocation of this joint, which would be otherwise very liable to happen from the superficial na- :ure of the articulating cavities on the head of the tibia, and also Prom the great violence to which the knee is often exposed. The depressions upon the head of the tibia are increased by the addition of the semilunar cartilages which rest upon the bone; they receive the condyles of the os femoris, and are attached by ligaments to the edge of the tibia. The fore part of the joint is