207 WOUNDS OF THE STOMACH. from an adhesion of the inflamed stomach to the peritoneum, seemed to go off gradually as he recovered his strength ; though it was still felt in a certain degree in stooping, walking quick, or any great exertion of the body. When I last heard of him, two months ago, he enjoyed good health *. “ This case affords a striking instance of the resources and pecu- liar powers with which nature has endowed the animal machine, for its preservation, and for remedying any injury it may sustain. The treatment was such as was necessarily suggested by the symp- toms. The wounded stomach was so extremely irritable, that even the mildest fluids increased the violence of its action, and were re- jected; for had any substance, whether of medicine or aliment, been admitted, it would probably have interrupted the union of the divided parts in the first instance, or afterwards, by the action necessary for its expulsion through the pylorus. “ The liquid contents of the stomach had been chiefly discharged by the external wound, though part of them must, no doubt, have passed into the cavity of the abdomen, and have been afterwards absorbed; but the wound of the stomach collapsing, the barley and indigested meat were left, which increased the irritation, and occasioned the uneasiness and sense of weight he complained of, and which was, in a great measure, removed by the vomiting i that took place upon his drinking the warm water. “ He felt some relief after the retention of the first clyster, but at that time his strength was so reduced, and the symptoms were altogether so unfavourable, that neither himself, nor those who saw him, entertained any hopes of his recovery. It is indeed surprising what an extreme debility took place immediately after the accident, which could only arise from the nervous influence and general sympathy with a part so essential to life. “ The accident that happened on the fourth day, induced me to persevere in the mode of treatment we had adopted. Indeed there * This was in the September twelvemonth following, as the paper is dated, November 15, 1785.