ON UMBILICAL HERNIA. 189 tatcs; so that the larger part of the swelling is below the orifice of the sac, and in some instances it acquires so great a size as to reach to the upper part of the thighs. This disease, if intestinal, and not supported, is attended with much danger, and creates a considerable degree of suffering. The patient frequently feels so much weakness and sensation of sink- ing, as to be incapable of making exertion. The bowels are very irregular in their actions, and the patient is much troubled with flatulence and nausea. Besides the frequent occurrence of these symptoms, the intes- tinal protrusion may be distinguished by its elasticity, its uniform feel, and by the passage of the air, &c., through the canal, pro- ducing a gurgling noise. When the protrusion is entirely omental, the patient expe- riences but little uneasiness or irregularity of the bowels. The feel of the swelling is uneven and doughy, and is but little tender under considerable pressure. Sometimes, if both intestine and omentum are contained in the hernial sac, they can be distinguished from each other by the above-mentioned marks. The omentum is in these cases usually above, and the intestine below. But, most frequently, the quan- tity of omentum protruded is much larger than that of the in- | testine, and the latter is covered by the former, so that it cannot be at first distinguished. The umbilical hernia is very common in infants soon after birth. Intestine is then generally protruded, and the shape of the swelling somewhat resembles the distended finger of a glove in shape; the hernia is easily reduced, unless the opening in the linea alba is very small. Children, subject to this disease, suffer from griping and a very irregular state of bowels, sometimes being constipated, at others being violently purged. When this hernia occurs in the adult, if the patient be thin, the shape of the tumour is pyriform and defined; but in fat persons, ; the hernia is sometimes scarcely perceptible on a superficial in- Creates much suffering. Symptoms when intestinal. When omental. Whee both. Common in infants. Appearance in the adult.