OF THE IRRITABLE TESTIS. 313 The sensibility of the part becomes occasionally so much increased, that the slightest touch is exquisitely painful; pain is felt in the back and groin; the motion of the part and slight pressure of the clothes in walking produce so much pain as to almost forbid exercise, and the patient finds no comfort but by reposing continually upon a sofa, or by remaining in bed. The testicle is little swollen, and the whole of the part is not equally tender. The spermatic cord sometimes partakes of this exquisite sensibility. If the part be not supported the pain is scarcely tolerable. The patient is obliged to place himself in bed upon the opposite side to the disease, or he does not rest. He has pain in the thigh on the same side,—the testis appears full and loaded. Motion in most cases produces not only pain at the time, but additional uneasiness afterwards. The stomach is rendered extremely irritable, and vomiting is sometimes produced. The disease frequently continues many weeks, sometimes exists for months, and with others endures for years. When the patient thinks himself much better, a little more exercise than usual renews all the symptoms. The complaint produces, in some instances, so much distress of mind, so high a degree of bodily suffering, and so completely inca- pacitates the sufferer from amusement, and the pursuit of a profession or business, that he seeks relief from an operation, which I was thrice compelled by the patients to perform, rather than recommended it upon my own judgment. The following is a statement by a medical man of the symptoms of the disease, which rendered his life burdensome to him. “ I think I can trace back the origin of my complaint to the Case. Spring of 1817, about eight or nine months before I married. I lived too well: got very corpulent and bloated, and had excessive venereal excitement, which I did not gratify, and felt the testicles and vessels of the cord ready to burst; but when I rose and walked, the uneasy sensations subsided. “ Soon after I married, I began to feel the uneasiness in the testicle I have since suffered from. I felt pain in coitu so great, as to lead me to go to London for advice. The testis is a little fuller: