402 DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER JAW. Corks to be preferred. Levers. attempt at reduction. When I saw the man I thought that a sur- geon must be as insane as the patient who would employ the usual means of reduction ; and I therefore desired that the keepers would place the patient on a table upon his back, with a pillow under his head, and that he should be held by several persons. I ordered two table forks to be brought me, and wrapped a handkerchief around their points. Placing myself behind the patient’s head, I carried the handles of the forks, into the mouth, on each side, be- hind the molares teeth; then directed them to be held, and placing my hand under the chin, I forcibly drew it to the upper jaw, and the bone was easily and quickly reduced. In the above mentioned case the handles of the forks were not used as levers, by lifting them; they only rested upon the jaw, which was used as a lever upon them, depressing the processes as the jaw was elevated, and thus directing the bone backwards into its natural situation. But as wood is liable to injure the gums, it is better to substitute two corks, which are to be placed behind the molares teeth on each side of the mouth, and over these the chin is to be raised. They are equally effectual in reducing the bone, and are less likely to injure it, or to bruise the soft parts. It has been recommended in these cases, to use a piece of wood as a lever, by introducing it between the molares teeth, first on one side and then on the other, reducing one side first and then using the same means to the other. Mr. Fox, in the case before alluded to, thus succeeded: he placed a piece of wood, a foot long, upon the molar tooth on one side, and raising it at the part at which he held it, depressed the point at the jaw on that side, and reduced the jaw. He then performed the same operation on the other side, and thus replaced the bone. But the corks, the recumbent posture, and the elevation of the chin, con- stitute the mode which I prefer. In reducing this dislocation, the surgeon generally wraps a handkerchief round his thumbs, placing them at the roots of the coronoid processes, and depressing the jaw, forces it backwards as well as downwards, when the bone suddenly slips into its place;