SPERMATIC CORD, AND PARTS ADJACENT. 295 Ten years after the operation, he said he had during the past | year been once connected. In 1829, he visited me, because he was a severe sufferer from piles. He then stated that for years he had seldom any erection, and then that it was imperfect; that he had no emissions from the first I year of the operation; that he had for many years only a few times attempted coitus, but unsuccessfully; that he had once or twice dreams of desire, and a sensation of emission, but without the slightest appearance of it. The penis is shrivelled and wasted. He shaves once a week, and sometimes twice, his voice, naturally rather feeble, remains as at the time of the operation. From this man’s declarations, I believe that the history of Eunuchs, eunuchs, if perfectly castrated, has been very much misrepresented; for it would seem that, after a few months, he lost all seminal emission, but that the erectile power remained for a few months more; and then, excepting at very distant periods, and but imper- fectly, even that power ceased, and the penis became shrivelled and diminished. The second case in which I removed the testis, was in a lad in Case. Guy’s Hospital, aged 16 years, who had previously the other testis ; extirpated. The disease each time was a scrofulous abscess, with I subsequent ulceration. The lad had not reached puberty, and he was very weakly and emaciated. Five years afterwards, as I was stepping out of my carriage at a patient’s door, a fat sleek- looking young person said, “ How do you do, sir ? ” I said, “ very well, but I do not know you.” “ Have you forgotten removing my testicle in Guy’s Hospital, five years ago?” “ Oh yes, I recollect you; you look very well,” “ Yes, but I am very unhappy;” and he immediately burst into tears. _ “ Why, what do you lament? ” “ Oh sir, that I am not as other men—I often wish that I were dead.” Desirous to cheer him, I said—“ You are a lucky fellow, for you are saved from many evils.” He shook his head, and I left him sorrowful.