OX SUPPURATION. 65 draw the skin forcibly on one side, and then cut through it down upon the substance. If the operation be performed in this manner, the skin being left to itself will return to its natural situation; consequently the cut in the integuments and that in the capsular ligament will not be opposite each other, and union by the first intention will be much more likely to ensue. In the treatment of wounds of the thecae as much caution is Wounds of the necessary as in those of the joints—their structure, in fact, nearly resembles the capsular ligament and synovial membrane: an injury here, causes, in a very short time, great pain and inflammation, and much constitutional irritation and fever. If matter form, it becomes deposited, or locked up, as it were, in a tendinous bag; and so great is the irritation which it sometimes occasions, that it has been known to destroy life in sixty hours. A young gentleman from the West Indies, of great professional Case, merit, of the name of Alcock, informed me one Monday night, after a surgical lecture, that he had, in the course of that day, punctured the theca in some part of his hand—as he was living at the time in the house of the late Dr. Haighton, I advised him to show it to the Doctor (who was an exceedingly clever man); he did so;—on the following day he suffered greatly from constitutional irritation, and on the Wednesday morning died: his system was certainly a very irritable one, and that accounts, in a great measure, for so speedy a dissolution. When, therefore, you suspect matter to have formed in these parts, let the quantity be ever so small, you ought to discharge it. It is surrounded by a structure through which, without assistance, it cannot pass; therefore nature requires your assistance. At the commencement of inflammation in these injuries, your treatment should be prompt—apply leeches and lotions, and give your patient calomel and opium—these measures, judiciously used, will often check the progress of the disease, and in a short time completely remove it. Formerly it was the opinion that matter was produced by a Formation of dissolution of the solids; but this opinion is now exploded, for we puS’ have numerous facts to prove that it is not true; in the urethra, for F