or THE OPERATIONS FOR TIC DOULOUREUX. 469 It is a folly in this operation not to encroach upon the sound rather than upon the diseased part. or THE OPERATIONS FOR TIC DOULOUREUX. Of the nature of that change in the nerve which produces this Nature of the .... . ruorbid change disease I have no knowledge, as I have never had an opportunity not known. of dissecting a nerve which had been affected with it. To me it has always appeared, that it is an action under par, Appears to be rather than an inflammatory action on the nerve, and for this ^“^ctionuntler obvious reason, that the remedies found successful in it are those of a tonic kind : large doses of bark, the free administration of arsenic, but above all, the remedy recommended by Mr. Hutchinson, of large doses of steel, are the evidences in support of this opinion. Opium, belladonna, and other narcotics, have only a temporary influence in mitigating suffering. As local applications, I have known belladonna and an ointment of the subacetate of lead beneficial. But this disease sometimes appears to originate in the brain Sometimes itself, as I have understood was the case in my friend Dr. in Pemberton, who suffered more from this disease than any individual I ever witnessed, and in whom a portion of bone was found growing on the brain. The operation of dividing the nerve for this disease is sometimes Division of the anxiously called for by the patient, on account of his agonizing nerve* sufferings ; I have seen an old weather-beaten captain of a man-of- war cry like a child under the painful influence of this disease; and a female once said to me, after the division of the nerve, “ Sir, the operating table was a bed of roses in comparison with the agony which the complaint had produced.” The nerves which I have divided, have been the suborbitary, The nerves the frontal branches of the ophthalmic, the mental nerve, and the portio dura of the seventh pair, which is perhaps more frequently the seat of this disease than any other nerve in the body. The operation is extremely simple, and is performed in the Operation following manner upon the suborbitary nerve. The ridge at the very simple.