330 FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. Diagnostic marks. Case. FRACTURES THROUGH THE TROCHANTER MAJOR. Oblique fractures sometimes happen through the trochanter major, and the cervix ossis femoris does not participate in the in- jury. This accident occurs at every period of life, and its sym- ptoms are as follow :—The leg is very little, and sometimes not at all, shorter than the other, and the foot is benumbed ; in some cases the patient is unable to turn in bed without assistance, and the attempt gives him great pain. The broken portion of the tro- chanter major is, in some cases, drawn forward towards the ilium; in others, it falls towards the tuberosity of the ischium; but is, in general, widely separated from that portion which remains con- nected with the neck of the bone. The foot is greatly everted; ,, the patient cannot sit, and any attempt to do so produces exces- sive pain. Crepitus is with difficulty discovered if the trochanter is either much fallen, or much drawn forwards. The distinguishing marks of this accident are, a fixed state of the upper part of the trochanter, whilst its lower part obeys the motion of the thigh-bone ; eversion of the foot, and the very per- j ceptible altered position of the trochanter major ; attended with ; crepitus under very extended motion of the upper part of the limb, ,| and with little diminution of its length. But when the fracture happens below the insertion of the prin- cipal rotatory muscles, the lower portion of bone is much raised by the action of the gluteus maximus, and the limb becomes very i much shortened and deformed at the place of union by exuberant callus. This fracture unites very firmly, and more quickly than when the cervix is broken at the root of the trochanter, and the patient ^ recovers with a very good use of the limb. The first case of this kind I ever saw was in St. Thomas’s Hos- pital, about the year 1786. It was supposed to be a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone within the capsule, and the limb was extended over a pillow rolled under the knee, with splints on