TREATMENT OF STRANGULATED HERNIA. 76 Employment of the warm bath. Extreme depres- sion produced by strangulation. Tobacco clyster. as to occasion mortification, which would render the case fatal though the protruded parts were returned. The quantity of blood to be drawn should be from fourteen to twenty ounces, according to the strength of the patient’s constitu- tion. So much should be taken away as to bring on a degree of faintness, in which state of general relaxation the attempts at reduction should be repeated. A surgeon unaccustomed to the small thready pulse of a person suffering under strangulated hernia, feels apprehensive of taking aw'ay blood, conceiving the patient’s strength to be fast sinking; but this fear is groundless, as the pulse becomes larger and fuller after this evacuation. If this fail of success, the patient is usually put into the warm bath, and indeed I generally employ the warm bath immediately after the bleeding, before the second attempt at reduction by the taxis. The first heat of the bath should be one hundred degrees of Fahrenheit, and it should be gradually raised till the patient faints, or feels disposed to do so, which usually takes place in fifteen or twenty minutes. The attempt at reduction is then to be repeated. The depression produced by the strangulation of an intestine is , sometimes so great, that very slight causes will induce a state of ’ syncope, from which the patient is with difficulty roused. The patient scarcely ever fails to express feeling much less pain after the bleeding and warm bath than before, at the same time that it too often happens that no advantage is gained in the essen- tial point of reduction. The two remedies on which, so far as my observation goes, a firmer reliance may be placed, are the tobacco clyster, and the application of cold; and if these fail I should be little inclined to aw ait the trial of any other remedy. Tobacco has been used in hernia both in form of smoke and as a liquid clyster. To use the smoke with any effect requires a complicated apparatus, and consequently it is often very badly managed; it is besides uncertain in its effects, and hence its use