133 FEMORAL HERNIA. upon a table of convenient height, in a horizontal position, but his shoulders should be a little raised, and the thigh bent towards the abdomen, in order to relax the abdominal muscles, &c. The first incision should commence a little above the superior part of the tumour, towards the umbilicus, and be extended down- wards, somewhat to the inner side of the prominent part of the swelling, as far as its middle; a second incision should then be made from the inner to the outer side of the tumour, at right angles with the first incision, and joining it at the lower part, so that the two together form a figure resembling an inverted j,. The angular flaps should then be dissected up, to allow of suffi- cient space for the other steps of the operation. The superficial fascia which is thus exposed, should next be di- vided to the same extent as the integument, by which the covering formed of the sheath of the femoral vessels will come into view*; this should be carefully cut into, so as to admit of the introduction of a director under it, upon which it should be further opened, so as to freely expose the hernial sac. If the patient is fat, a layer of adipose matter may be found be- tween this covering, formed of the sheath of the femoral vessels, and the sac itself. I have known this covering, which I call the fascia propria, to be mistaken for the hernial sac, so that the surgeon who operated, supposed he had opened the peritoneal covering when he cut into the sheath, and after considerable difficulty, he succeeded in push- ing up the protruded parts, but on the following day the patient died; and when examining his body, it was discovered, that the hernial sac had not been opened, but had been thrust up into the abdomen with its contents, which still remained in a strangulated state. The surgeon having exposed the hernial sac, should pinch up a small portion of its anterior and lower part, between his finger and Operation. Superficial fascia. Layer of fat. Sheath of the vessels. Hernial sac. • There is usually a considerable vein between the superficial fascia, and the ! fascia propria, as well as absorbent glands. i