38 THE DISSECTION Cribriform fascia. Anatomy of the parts in the pel- vis. tion of the fascia lata at the saphenous foramen. If the falciform process be raised by the forceps, it will be observed that it does not abruptly terminate; but that it sends a membranous prolong- ation down to the femoral sheath, with which structure it appears to become continuous. According to some anatomists, however, the iliac portion of the fascia, is actually continued across in front of the femoral sheath, and reaching the inner side of the femoral vein, it is said to become continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia. Whichever of these accounts is correct, it is certain that ex- tending across the saphenous foramen, there is a layer of mem- brane, much thinner than the fascia lata, and placed between the inner surface of the superficial fascia, and the outer surface of the femoral sheath, from both of which it appears to be distinct. This structure is perforated by the vena saphena major, by the small superficial blood-vessels of the groin, and by many lymphatics, and it is owing to this circumstance that it has received the denomination offascia cribriformis. It is necessary now to proceed to the consideration of those parts which are connected with the abdominal cavity. In order to expose these parts, the anterior wall of the abdomen should be divided, and the viscera situated in the neighbourhood of the iliac fossa removed. The peritoneum lining the abdominal and iliac muscles, is then to be raised, which, in consequence of the laxity of the sub-serous cellular tissue, is easily accomplished without disturbing the connexions of the adjacent parts. This having been accomplished, it will be observed that the fascia transversalis, lining the abdominal walls on the fore part, and the fascia iliaca lining the walls on the back part, became united with each other at the deep or abdominal edge of Poupart’s ligament, from the an- terior superior spinal process of the ilium, as far as to the outer border of the external iliac artery; but it is found that where the iliac blood-vessels pass under the crural arch to reach the thigh, the two fasciae are prolonged with them (the fascia transversalis