140 ON UMBILICAL HERNIA. Sac in part de- ficient. Two sacs. Case. Most frequent in women. Causes. spection, as it extends upwards and downwards, is flattened ante- riorly, and has its circumference blended with the adipose matter, so as not to present any defined edge. The tumour may be flat- tened in thin persons, but when so, its extent is always evident. Although, generally, the hernia has a peritoneal covering, or proper sac, yet, in a few instances, when the disease has been of long standing, and has acquired a very large size, I have seen the sac in part wanting. I have also known two sacs to exist at the same time; one pro- truded by the side of the other, and only separated at their origin by a thin septum. Mr. Cline operated twice upon a woman in St. Thomas’s Hos- pital, for strangulated umbilical hernia, in whom two hernias ex- isted, having their commencement about half an inch apart, but the sacs lying in contact. Women are much more liable to this disease than men, and the most frequent cause of it is pregnancy, the bowels being pushed up by the gravid uterus as it rises from the pelvis. Another cause is the deposition of adipose matter within the omentum and mesentery, whereby their size is so much increased that the abdomen is hardly capable of containing them. Women who become corpulent after having had many children, are often subject to tbis disease, on account of the lax state of the abdo- minal parietes not affording sufficient resistance to prevent such protrusions. The distension of the abdominal parietes, and protrusion of the navel, which is sometimes met with in ascites, is said to be a cause of umbilical hernia; but I am inclined to think that it is more fre- quently the consequence than the cause of this disease. Children, however, are most frequently the subjects of this complaint, and in them it appears very soon after birth, as the opening for the passage of the umbilical cord is at that time very large, and will readily allow of the escape of the intestine. This complaint is more frequent in some families than in others, and I am disposed to impute it to the size of the funis, as I know an in-