OF THE AFTER-TREATMENT. 388 To be kept dry. Opium. Diluents. Tying the legs together. Position. Passage of the urine. Recovery. No dressing is to be applied to the wound, but a folded sheet or napkin is to be placed under the nates of the patient in bed, and this should be frequently examined, to ascertain if the urine be secreted and pass away: it should be changed for a dry one whenever it becomes wet. Opium may be given, if the patient be very irritable; but as it is apt to check the action of the intestines it should not be administered unless absolutely necessary. The patient should be allowed to take diluents freely at first; such as linseed tea, or barley water with gum acacia in it; and, when the danger of inflammation has passed, beef tea, broth, or gruel may be given. Saline medicines, with excess of alkali, are useful; if a tendency to fever or inflammation arise, purge the patient with castor oil, and foment the abdomen; if it increase, give calomel and antimony, and occasionally castor oil; if the pain in the abdomen become severe, bleed from the arm of the adult, and apply leeches to the abdomen of a child. When the wound begins to granulate, and not before, tie the legs together; as much mischief arises from doing so, soon after the operation; First, in bleeding, as already mentioned; Secondly, it prevents the free escape of the urine; it is of no use until the wound be disposed to close. It is not necessary that the patient should rest on his back only; there is not any danger in his turning to the side, and great relief is often obtained by it. The urine passes, in some cases, entirely by the urethra in the first few hours, but this is not desirable; the patient suffers less in its discharge, and has less local irritation, if it escapes easily by the wound. In cases of enlarged prostate gland, it is proper to intro- duce a flexible catheter by the urethra, to permit the urine con- stantly to flow off. When the urine, under the common consequences of the operation, takes its natural course, the patient frequently suffers from a rigor. Children usually recover from the operation in about three weeks,