243 DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. tion of the accident difficult; the swelling being sometimes so considerable as to conceal entirely the ends of the bones. This effusion is in proportion to the size and number of the vessels lacerated. A severe but obtuse pain arises from the pressure of the head of the bone upon the muscles, and, in some cases, this pain is rendered more acute from its pressure upon a large nerve. From this cause also is produced a paralysis of the parts below, instances of which occur in dislocations of the shoulder. In other cases, the bone presses upon important parts so as to produce effects dangerous to life. I have for many years mentioned in my lectures, a case of dislocated clavicle pressing upon the oesophagus so as to endanger life; of which Mr. Davie, of Bungay, was so kind as to send me an ac- count. A more detailed account of this case will be given * hereafter. In most dislocations, the head of the bone may be readily felt in its new situation; and the rotation of the limb best discovers the nature of the accident, as by this movement, the head of the bone is found to roll. The natural prominences of the dislocated bone, in some instances, either disappear, or become less conspicuous,—as the trochanter in luxations of the hip-joint; but the contrary result ensues in dislocations of the elbow; for there the olecranon is more than usually prominent, and serves as the principal guide for discovering the nature of the injury. The more remote effects of the accident are, that frequently a sensation of crepitus is produced by the effusion of adhesive matter (fibrin) into the joint and bursae ; the synovia becomes in- spissated, and crackles under motion,—a circumstance of which ievery practitioner should be aware, as he may be otherwise induced erroneously to suspect the existence of fracture. The degree of inflammation which succeeds to these accidents, is generally slight; but in some cases it becomes so considerable as to produce a tumefaction, which, added to that resulting from r 2 Effects of pres- sure from the dislocated bone. Criterion of the accident by rotation. Crepitus. Inflammation and suppuration.