14 ANATOMY OF HERNIA. Fascia trans- versals. Internal abdo- minal ring. form over the femoral vessels, and terminates at the pubes on the inner side of these vessels in a semicircular sweep, from whence proceeds a triangular portion connected with the spine of the pubes and continued inwards to the crista of the bone. Its in- sertion is best seen, as well as the parts hereafter described, by dissecting them as in plate first. If there had been no other de- fence to the lower part of the abdomen, than what is afforded by this arch, few persons would be exempt from herniae ; but this part is fortified by other means. Three distinct fasciae are connected with the crural arch, two of which pass upward to assist in supporting the abdominal viscera; and one descends upon the muscles of the lower extremity, known as the fascia lata femoris. One of these only will at present be considered. When the lower portions of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are raised from their subjacent attachments, a layer of fascia is found to be interposed between them and the peritoneum, through which the spermatic vessels emerge from the abdomen. This fascia, which I have ventured to name fascia transversalis, varies in density, being strong and unyielding towards the ilium, but weak and more cellular towards the pubes. Midway between the spine of the ilium and pubes, the opening will be seen, w'hich is now generally known as the internal abdominal ring; the edges of it are indistinct on account of its cellular connexions with the cord ; when these are separated, the fascia in which it is formed will be found to consist of two portions ; the outer strong layer, connected to Poupart’s ligament, winds in a semilunar form around the outer side of the cord, and bounds the aperture by a distinct margin, from which a thin process may be traced passing down upon the cord. The inner portion, which is found behind the cord, is attached to, but less strongly connected with the inner half of the crural arch, and may be readily separated from it by passing the handle of a knife between it and the arch. It ascends behind the tendon of the transversalis, with which it is intimately blended, passes around the inner side of the cord, and joins with