WOUNDS OF PARTICULAR ARTERIES. 195 A man was brought into Guy’s Hospital, who had fallen from a considerable height, upon a cart, and an iron peg in the cart had passed through the calf of his leg, between the tibia and fibula ; a profuse haemorrhage ensued, but by the application of a tourniquet it was stopped. In six days the bleeding recurred, when the tour- niquet was tightened, and the flow of blood was again suppressed; but in two days haemorrhage again took place. I tied the femoral artery at the usual place, and for a week the man went on well, but then the bleeding was renewed, and I was obliged to amputate the limb. On examining it after removal, it was found that the iron had passed through the posterior tibial artery, at the origin of the anterior tibial, and had penetrated between the tibia and fibula. An immediate amputation would be the best course to pursue. I have several times known the posterior tibial artery wounded by the bone in compound fracture; once, in a patient of Mr. Chandler, and a piece of lint was forced into the wound, which stopped the bleeding, but it was followed by gangrene, of which he patient died. In a case of Mr. Lucas’s, in Guy’s Hospital, Mr. Pollard, his lresser, secured the artery, and the patient did well. I A patient of Mr. Key’s, a boy, upon whom a tourniquet was ipplied, had the bleeding restrained, and it did not return. In a patient of Mr. Travers’s, it was wounded by a scythe, and jvas tied by Mr. Travers, in the theatre at St. Thomas’s Hospital; lie patient did well. It is sometimes wounded by the employment of the adze. I ;|/as called to a case at Hunton Bridge, Herts, by Mr. Wingfield, urgeon, at Market Street. The wound was small, and the artery jut, but not divided ; the injury had happened three weeks before saw the man ; the bleedings had been very frequent, and were strained for a time by pressure on the wound, by means of a mrniquet. As the man had become excessively reduced by the last haemor- lage, and could not have survived another, as soon as I was called o 2 Case. Immediate am- putation. In compound fracture. Case. Case. Case. Case.