412 OF PUNCTURING THE BLADDER BY THE RECTUM. Operation. After-treat- ment. cantila may be passed through the fore part of the rectum, through the cellular tissue connecting it to the bladder, and through the coats of the latter into its cavity. If the centre of the space be kept, there is no danger of wounding the vasa deferentia or vesiculae seminales if the bladder be distended. The trocar may be safely introduced an inch behind the prostate without risk of injuring the peritoneum, and the vasa deferentia may be thus completely avoided, whereas a puncture near the gland might endanger them. The operation is to be thus performed: First, The patient is to be placed on a high table, so that the surgeon can sit lower than the patient. Secondly, The finger is to be passed per rectum to the projecting portion of the bladder behind the prostate. Thirdly, A trocar and canula, three inches long, are to be passed upon the finger to the protruding part of the bladder, and forced through the fore part of the rectum and posterior part of the bladder into its cavity. A curved trocar has been advised and employed, but it is quite unnecessary if the silver canula be not suffered to remain. Fourthly, The trocar is to be withdrawn, and a flexible gum catheter is to be passed through the canula into the bladder; the canula is then to be removed, and the elastic catheter to be confined to a T bandage, or to a tape passed between the thighs. When the patient has sufficiently recovered from the inflammation which the disease and operation have produced, it will be right to begin with re-establishing the urethra. This operation is easily performed ; but it is decidedly objection- able, on account of the urine being liable to produce a diseased state of the rectum. Dr. Cheston, of Gloucester, told me that he had seen great disease of the intestine occasioned by it. I was sent for to a patient who had undergone this operation for retention of urine from a disease of the prostate gland. The bladder had been punctured just before my arrival, yet I easily passed a