383 THE OPERATION* FOR THE STONE. may be successfully removed. Mr. Mayo, of Winchester, in this way, extracted one weighing altogether fifteen ounces. The largest Case. which I have extracted whole was from Mr. , of Fore Street, in the city, a relation of Mr. Field’s, surgeon, in Wilderness Row; it weighed sixteen ounces; I was obliged to extend the incision in perineo to the sacro sciatic ligaments, and when I seized the stone with the largest forceps, I found I could not extract it; I therefore endeavoured to bore a hole in it with a gimblet, as I held it between the blades of the forceps, but scarcely made any impression upon it: at last I succeeded in removing it in the following manner: Mr. David Babington, son of Dr. Babington, then my apprentice (a most amiable and excellent young man, who entirely fell a victim to his professional zeal, and who, if he had lived, promised to be one of the highest ornaments of his profession,) assisted me. I placed a single blade, or crotchet, on the upper part of the stone, under the symphysis pubis, and then, whilst I pulled the stone with the forceps through the opening in perineo, Mr. B. pressed down the stone by elevating the handle of the crotchet, and thus brought it below the line of the symphysis pubis, and thus it was extracted. The time occupied by the operation was nearly an hour, and the patient survived only a few hours. For extracting very large calculi, a free incision is required, and Forceps with , . _ blades which the iorceps must be large and strong. Mr. Cline had some made so separate. that the blades could be introduced singly and joined together after- wards; or one blade could be used alone, as above described. Forceps have been constructed with teeth, to break a large stone; Instruments and Mr. Earle has invented a perforator for the same purpose: such g°0^reesak large an instrument, easily applied, is in the highest degree desirable. Soft stones create a difficulty in the operation, by rendering it goft stones necessary to remove the stone in fragments. It is thought to be very desirable afterwards to wash out the bladder by means of a syringe, with a view to prevent the future formation on any re- maining portion. I believe it is better to use the scoop, and to remove with it all the particles of stone which the urine cannot carry off, such as sand; for injecting the bladder will not remove frag-