324 DISSECTION. Case. prominent part, and discharging a quantity of serum from it, by which it was at once clear the disease was of the hydatid kind, and the magnitude of the swelling was lessened. An incision was then made across the tumour, a little above its middle, and the flap of integument being raised, the upper part of the swelling was detached from the pectoral muscle ; and with the handle of the knife the swelling was further separated, and a flap of skin being left below to meet that at the upper part, the operation was thus concluded. The removal was borne with great fortitude. Two arteries, of considerable size, required to be secured. The integu- ments were brought together by a single suture, and by adhesive plaster. On the 16th of June the wound was first dressed, and on the 30th Lady H. was quite well. The wife of Dr. W., aged 45, twenty-six years ago, fell in getting into a carriage, and received a blow upon the breast, which immediately became black and uneasy; she applied leeches upon it, but a small lump remained. Three years ago the swelling- began to increase, and, from a rounded form, became oblong, but was free from pain ; its increase was so gradual, that little alteration was produced in twelve months. At this time the veins began to enlarge, and the skin to be discoloured ; yet still it was free from pain. At the end of two years she applied to me, and I ordered leeches, which emptied the veins, but did not diminish the swelling-, for it continued to increase, and several blue spots appeared upon it; but it preserved a globular form: spirituous lotions were applied upon it to check its growth by evaporation. Two months before the operation, the tumour underwent a sudden increase, and was supposed to weigh about five pounds. She was free from pain during the whole progress of the disease; her spirits were good; her activity undiminished, and her constitution was unaffected until the last two months, when she said she felt nervous; and head-aches, which she had always experienced occasionally, increased in the progress of the disease: the original lump was for a time distinct in the tumour, but at length blended itself with the general mass.