4 82 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. Intervertebral substance. Anterior spinal bgament. Posterior spinal. Intervertebral. Capsular. Ligamentum subttavum. Ligamentum nuchae. Capsular. Circular. Perpendicular. Lateral. The bodies of the vertebrae are united by a ligamento-carti- laginous substance, extremely elastic, and composed of concentric lamellae, connected by oblique fibres, which decussate each other, but in the centre become mucous, so as to form a pivot, which supports the central line of the vertebrae; whilst the elasticity and compressibility of the outer edge of this uniting medium, allows the vertebrae to move upon this centre in all directions. The column is also further connected by an anterior spinal ligament, which proceeds from the second vertebra of the neck to the sacrum, and is united to all the bodies of the vertebrae, excepting the first. There is also a posterior spinal ligament, situated within the canal of the spinal column, and proceeding from the second vertebra; but it is also intermixed with the perpendicular ligament; and descending to the sacrum, it sends out lateral processes to the superior and inferior edges of the bodies of the vertebrae. Intervertebral ligaments also pass in a crucial direction from vertebra to vertebra. The articular processes are united by capsular ligaments, and the transverse processes have ligaments passing from the one to the other. Between the arches of the roots of the spinous processes is placed an elastic ligament, called the ligamentum subjlavum, which allows of considerable separation of the spinous processes ; and, by its elasticity, approximates them, rendering muscular support for the erect position of the body less necessary. The vertebrae of the neck are united at their spinous processes by an elastic ligamentous substance, which is termed the ligamentum nuchue. The head is connected to the spinal column by capsular liga- ments, enclosing the condyles of the os occipitis and the articular processes of the atlas, or the first vertebra. A circular ligament proceeds from the foramen magnum to the edge of the aperture of the first vertebra. A perpendicular ligament passes from the anterior part of the foramen magnum to the dentiform process of the second vertebra. Lateral ligaments proceed from the edge of the foramen magnum and first vertebra on each side, and are united to the dentiform