434 OF THEIR REMOVAL. Spat. An operation necessary. Three inodes. First, by lace- ration. The polypus grows from that portion of the schneiderean membrane which is situated upon the same side with the turbinated bones. I have never yet seen a polypus growing from that cover- ing, the septum narium. The body of the polypus is generally yellow, and is streaked with few vessels. Its neck diminishes often to a very small stalk. Now and then two or three polypi grow from a single stalk. When a polypus becomes very large, instead of advancing to the nostril it recedes into the throat, appearing behind the velum palati; and sometimes when it grows from the back of the nares, it makes its first appearance in the throat. It here becomes of very considerable size, and at length would readily allow a ligature to be passed around it; but this, as I shall presently describe, is not the best mode of its removal. When it appears in the throat, I have seen its body divided into a number of different portions. In the collection at St. Thomas’s Hospital, their great size and broken surfaces are well seen in many preparations, as well as their origin from the pituitary membrane. OF TIIEIR REMOVAL. No other mode than an operation will succeed in removing these excrescences. I have repeatedly tried the application of caustic; hut it only acts upon the surface, and the root grows faster than that surface can be destroyed. Aluminous and other astringent applications render the breathing a little more free at the moment, but produce no permanent relief. Three modes have been proposed for their removal: First, by laceration ; Secondly, by excision ; Thirdly, by ligature. ■ First. Laceration is the usual mode. For this purpose, a surgeon should be provided with two pair of forceps ; one pair slightly curved, terminating in a point hollowed at the end, and that hollow containing pointed teeth, having an aperture in each blade. A second pair, formed like common dressing forceps, only the blades longer and more slender, having serrated teeth, received