FRACTURES OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 4 55 but that by ligament had been produced. The second prepa- ration is a specimen of the transverse fracture of the extremity of the condyle, within the capsular ligament, in which not the least attempt at ossific union can be detected. It is obvious, therefore, that this principle of ligamentous union extends to all detached portions within a capsular ligament; the vitality of the bone being supported merely by the ligament within the joint. This accident usually happens in children, by falls upon the elbow; at least, in the course of my observation, a very large proportion of the cases have been in young persons : I have seen, it occur in the adult, but very rarely in advanced age. The treatment required is the following: A roller is applied around the elbow, and above and below the joint. An angular splint is to be adapted, which should admit the elbow, extend behind the upper arm, and receive the fore arm, so as to support it; a roller should then be bound over the whole to keep it firmly fixed. In the child this splint may be made of stiff pasteboard, bent to the shape of the elbow ; but the best mode for its appli- cation is, to dip it in hot water and apply it wet, so that it may exactly adapt itself to the form of the limb; it thus becomes the best possible support to the injured arm. Indeed, it may be here observed, that for children this is the best mode of making every support of this kind. The splint is to be worn for three weeks, when passive motion is to be begun ; it must be very gentle at first, and may be gradually increased as the pain and inconve- nience attending it subside. The result of the case depends upon the seat of the fracture : if the bone be broken very obliquely, a steady and long-continued support of the part will occasion it to unite ; for in these cases a considerable portion of the fracture is external to the capsular ligament; but if the whole extent of the fracture be within the ligament, it does not, as far as I have seen, unite by bone, what- ever be the means employed. Union by liga- ment. Treatment. Result of this injury- J