'209 ON THE FORMATION OF ANEURISMS. become absorbed, and form a portion of the bag ; next the inter- costal muscles, with the cartilages of the ribs; then the pectoral muscle ; and at last the skin itself, forming the parietes of the aneurism, give way, and there is no longer- any thing- to prevent the escape of the blood. Every aneurism was formerly supposed to be produced by the Former dilatation of the coats of the artery ; but it has been found that this °P,nion3• is not the case. It is generally produced, not by the dilatation, but by the absorption of the coats of the artery. For this knowledge we are indebted to Scarpa, who first accurately explained the mode in which aneurisms are produced. He thought they were always produced in this way; but they are sometimes, though rarely, formed in the way in which they Mere formerly supposed to be uniformly produced; namely, by dilatation. Here is a specimen of an aneurism of the aorta, in M-hich the pouch is formed by dilatation, the coats of the artery still remaining. The general cause of aneurism is a diseased state of the coats of Cause of i • . , i • aneurism, an artery, by wrhich it becomes altered m its appearance, and thinner in its texture ; but this, although the most frequent, is not the only cause of the disease, for sometimes the artery becomes dilated in its Mhole circumference, as may be seen by tM-o beautiful specimens in our museum. Aneurisms are now and then the effects of the bursting of an Bursting of • i , , artery. artery, under some considerable exertion. 1 have known tu-o instances of this kind. A gentleman who u’as out shooting, jumped Case, over a ditch, w-hen, on reaching the other side, his foot slipped, and he fell back into the ditch. At this moment he felt something snap in his ham, and when he attempted to n-alk, he found himself lame from the accident. He Mras attended by Mr. Holt, a surgeon, at Tottenham, and M-as afterwards brought to tow:n, where he under- M-cnt an operation for popliteal aneurism. In this case, the aneurism began to form within a very short time after the accident, and it was not more than from three to five weeks afterwards that the operation was performed. The other case in wdiich I have known an aneurism produced by Case