DISLOCATIONS OF THE OS HUMERI. 417 years. I do not believe in any change of place after dislocation, when the muscles have once contracted, (except from subsequent violence, which is very uncommon,) beyond that slight change which pressure, by producing absorption, wall sometimes occasion. The bone is generally at once thrown into the situation which it afterwards occupies : so that, excepting from circumstances of great violence, the nature and direction of the dislocation are not subsequently changed. DISLOCATION IN THE AXILLA. The usual signs in this dislocation are as follow: a hollow is produced below the acromion, by the displacement of the head of the humerus from the glenoid cavity, and the natural roundness of the shoulder is destroyed, because the deltoid muscle is flattened and dragged down with the depressed head of the bone. The arm is somewhat longer than the other, as the situation of the bone upon the inferior costa of the scapula is below the level of the glenoid cavity. The elbow is with difficulty made to touch the patient’s side, from the pain produced in this effort by pressure of the head of the bone upon the nerves of the axilla; and upon this account it usually happens, that the patient himself supports his arm at the wrist or fore-arm with the other hand, to prevent its weight pressing upon these nerves. The head of the os humeri can be felt in the axilla, but only if the elbow be considerably removed from the side. I have several times seen surgeons ID deceived in these accidents, by thrusting the fingers into the axilla when the arm is close to the side, when they have directly said, “ this is not a dislocationbut upon raising the elbow, the head of the bone could be distinctly felt in the axilla; for that move- ment throws the head of the bone downwards and more into the axilla. The motion of the shoulder is in a great degree lost, more especially in the direction upwards and outwards, for the patient can no longer raise his arm by muscular effort, and even the VOL. II. Signs of dislo- cation into the axilla. E E