OF INGUINAL HERNIA. 43 success against the surgeon, and destroy the prospect of safety on the part of the patient. A hernia is a protrusion of any viscus from its proper cavity; but the term is principally applied to the protrusions of the abdo- minal viscera, to which it is at present my intention to confine my description. The abdomen is particularly liable to such protrusions, on ac- count of the moveable state of its viscera, of the natural openings from it to give passage to blood vessels, and unnatural apertures from deficiency of structure, and from the great changes in bulk to which the omentum and mesentery are subject; so that instead of being surprised at the frequency of its occurrence, it might be expected, from a knowledge of anatomy, that it would occur in many more instances than it does. There are several genera of abdominal herniae; four of which, however, are more frequent than the others; viz. the inguinal, the femoral, the umbilical, and the ventral; but beside these, there is a hernia through the ischiatic notch, one through the foramen ovale, a pudendal, a perineal, a vaginal, occasionally a protrusion takes place through the diaphragm, the kidneys have been found in a swelling in the loins, and the small intestines have been seen between the laminae of the mesentery and mesocolon : but, to the two latter, the term hernia is scarcely strictly applicable. OF INGUINAL HERNIA. Of this hernia, there are four different species:— 1. The oblique, taking the course of the spermatic cord. 2. The direct, descending from the abdomen immediately through the external abdominal ring. 3. The congenital, or a protrusion into the tunica vaginalis. 4. The encysted hernia, composed of a bag and protrusion sus- pended in the tunica vaginalis. Before any hernia is formed, unless in wounds, laceration, or deficiency of structure, a bag of peritoneum precedes the pro- Definition. Abdomen par- ticularly liable to such pro- trusions. Kinds of hernia. Of inguinal hernia. Oblique. Direct. Congenital. Encysted. Contained in a sac.