488 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. Case. Displacement of the vertebrae. These accidents fatal. covered with a thin layer of cartilage. The synovial membrane and capsular ligaments resembled those of other joints, excepting that the former was more vascular. The fluid within the joint had the lubricating feel characterizing synovia.” A boy was admitted into Guy’s Hospital, who had been en- deavouring to support a heavy wheel by putting his head between the spokes, and receiving its weight upon his shoulders. The wheel overbalanced him, and he fell, bent double. When he was brought into the Hospital, although he had been perfectly straight before, he had the appearance of one who had long suffered from distorted spine; yet this injury had not produced paralysis of the lower extremities. Three or four spinous processes had been broken off, and the muscles torn on one side, so as to give an ob- liquity to the situations of the fractured portions. The boy quickly recovered without any particular attention, and was dis- charged with the free use of his body and limbs; but he still re- mained deformed. FRACTURE OF THE BODIES OF THE VERTEBRAE, WITH DISPLACEMENT. These fractures frequently come under our observation, pro- ducing displacement of the vertebrae. As the symptoms and re- sult of the accident differ according to the situation of the frac- tured bones, these injuries may be divided into two classes; first, those which occur above the third cervical vertebra ; and, secondly, those which occur below that bone. In the first class, the accident is almost always immediately fatal, if the displacement be to the usual extent. Death, in the second class, occurs at various periods after the injury. The origin of the phrenic nerve, from the third and fourth cervical pairs, is the reason of this difference; for as the parts below are paralyzed by the pressure upon the spinal cord, if the accident be below the fourth cervical vertebra, the phrenic nerve retains its functions, and the diaphragm supports respiration ; but if, on the contrary, the fracture be situated above the origin of this nerve,