ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 159 I patient; perhaps we have fallen into the contrary extreme. After | the expiration of my apprenticeship at these hospitals, I went over to Paris to see the practice of Desault, at the Hotel-Dieu; and i there I found that never, under any circumstance whatever, did he | trephine; and that he was more successful than those who were j constantly doing it here. Trephining in concussion is now so Trephine I completely abandoned, that in the last four years I do not know that I have performed it once: whilst thirty-five years ago I should have performed it five or six times a-year. But I believe that I have omitted one circumstance; and that is, to tell you to pay strict attention to the mind; excessive anxiety must be prevented ; for if you suffer the mind to be disturbed, you do little or nothing towards the recovery. I was very much struck, about twelve months ago, with an instance of this: a boy was brought to me from the north of England, who had lost a portion of the skull just above the eye- brow ; and I was asked (for it was for this purpose that I was consulted) what protection should be given to the denuded brain. On examining the brain, I distinctly perceived the pulsation was regular and slow; but at this time he was agitated by some means or other ; directly the blood was sent with increased force to the brain, the pulsation became more violent; therefore, if you omit to keep the mind free from agitation, your other means will be unavailing. Lastly, the treatment of children. As you cannot always bleed Treatment of them from the arm, you must give the submurias hydrargyri chiltlr< n' (calomel) with mild drink, so as to purge them; leeches must be applied to the temples; you must open the jugular vein. For the symptoms after concussion, as pain in the head, or sickness at the stomach, you must make an incision through the scalp; put issues in; wash the head with spirits of wine and water, for this is better than any thing else I know; and use the shower-bath two or three times. These are the best means for giving power to the nervous system, and bringing the action of the brain into a healthy state. Sometimes I advise Ungt. lyttae to be rubbed upon the head, and Pil. Hydr. and Extr. Colocynth. Comp, to be given. Electricity, in