OF TIIE OPERATION FOR TIC DOULOUREUX. 470 Division of the suborbitary. Division of the frontal branches. Division of the mental nerve. lower part of the orbit being felt, the foramen through which the nerve passes is situated from a quarter to half an inch below the centre of that ridge. The point of a curved bistoury is then passed into the cheek three quarters of an inch below the ridge of the orbit, and to the outer side of the foramen, and is carried directly to the bone ; then passing it upon the surface of the bone under the nerve, and a little obliquely upward towards the inner canthus of the eye, the point of the knife is brought to the back of the skin at the distance of an inch from where it entered; it is then kept elevated against the back of the skin as it is withdrawn, and the nerve is thus freely divided by an opening through the skin, not above half the size of that which is made in bleeding. Pressure with the finger is for a few minutes required, to stop the bleeding from the suborbitary artery. The operation from the frontal branches.of the ophthalmic is performed in a similar manner; as these branches radiate more at the upper part of the orbit, it is necessary to make the division a little more extensively than in the former case. The eyebrow is drawn up, and the point of the curved bistoury is to be introduced under it, and carried on to the ridge of the orbit, extending to the outer side; afterwards carried inwards close to the hone towards the upper part of the nose, the point is elevated to the skin, and withdrawn close to the back of it, out of the opening by which it was introduced, by which all the branches are divided. The operation upon the mental nerve is different to the two former; the foramen in the side of the lower jaw, through which this nerve passes, is situated in a line drawn below and between the two bicuspides; and the pain of the disease in the nerve is felt in the under lip, and the lower part of the side of the face. In this case, to divide the nerve, the under lip is drawn from the gum, and the point of the curved bistoury is introduced through the skin of the mouth close to the jaw, on the fore part of the foramen, and is then carried backwards close to the bone, dividing the skin ol the mouth and the nerve as it passes out of the foramen,