DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. 379 Thirdly. The spasmodic contractions of the muscles are much diminished by shortening the bone, as it throws them all into a state of relaxation; whereas, if the bone be reduced by violence when the saw has not been used, the spasm of the limb will be sometimes very violent. Fourthly. The local irritation is much diminished by the greater ease with which adhesion is produced of the sawn extre- mity of the bone to the parts to which it is applied; for it is a mistake to suppose that the sawn end of the bone will not adhere; the contrary is seen in amputation, in sawing off the bone in exostosis, and in the union by adhesion of compound fractures; and that adhesive matter can be thrown out upon cartilaginous surfaces is known to every person who has dissected a diseased joint; it is thus that the end of the tibia adheres to the surface of the astragalus. Fifthly. When suppuration does occur it is much diminished, and a considerable part of the ulcerative process is prevented by the mechanical removal of the cartilage; for nearly half the arti- cular surface of the joint no longer remains. Caeteris paribus, therefore the case recovers more rapidly. Sixthly. The constitutional irritation is very much lessened by the diminution of the suppurative and ulcerative process, and by the ease with which the parts are restored. In the cases which I have had an opportunity of seeing, there was not more irritative fever than in the mildest cases of compound fracture. Seventhly. It has been found that in cases in which the ex- tremities of the bones forming the joint have been broken into small pieces, and in which these have been removed by the finger> the patient has suffered less, and has more quickly recovered, than hen the bone has been returned whole. Eighthly. I have known no case of death when the extremities of the bones have been sawn off, although I have occasion to men- tion some in which the cases terminated fatally when this was not done. Local irritation diminished. Suppuration and ulceration les- sened. Less constitu- tional irritation. Bone shattered. No case of death.