337 DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. is bent; but although great strength is evident in the construction af this joint, still excessive violence and extreme relaxation will accasionally produce its dislocation. DISLOCATION OF THE PATELLA. The patella is liable to be dislocated in three directions : namely nitwards, inwards, and upwards. In its lateral dislocation, the >one is most frequently thrown on the external condyle of the os emoris, where it produces a great projection ; and this circum- stance, with an incapacity of bending the knee, is the strong evi- lence of the nature of the injury. The most frequent cause of the iccident is, that a person in walking or running, falls with his knee urned inwards, and the foot outwards; and thus by the action of he muscles to prevent the fall, the patella is drawn over the ex- ernal condyle of the os femoris; and when the person attempts to ise he finds himself unable to bend his leg, and the muscles and igaments of the patella are all forcibly on the stretch. This acci- lent generally occurs in those who have some inclination of the :nee inwards, which, under the action of the extensor muscles, ives a direction to the patella outwards. The internal dislocation is much less frequent, and it happens rom falls upon a projecting body, by which the patella is struck pon its outer side, or by the foot being, at the time of the fall, urned inwards. In either of these cases the ligament will be am, unless there be some previous disease. Mr. Harris, getting into a chaise, caught his foot in the carpet t the bottom of it, by which accident the knee was turned in and le leg outwards; the patella slipped upon the external condyle of le os femoris, but it returned very soon, by the effort of the mus- les, into its natural situation. On examination, I found the in- :rnal portion of the capsular ligament torn, and a great accumu- ition of synovia in the joint. The mode of reduction in either case, consists in pursuing the dlowing plan :—The patient is placed in the recumbent posture ad an assistant raises the leg by lifting it at the heel; the advan- Three direc- tions. Symptoms. Cause. External. Internal. Mode of reduc- tion. VOL. II. Z