DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. 412 Case. each axilla, for three purposes: First, to keep the scapula from the side : Secondly, to raise the scapula: Thirdly, to defend the axillae from being hurt by the bandages ; on which last account a cushion is employed on each side. Then the clavicle bandage is applied, and its straps should be sufficiently broad to press upon the clavicle, the scapula, and the upper part of the os humeri, to keep the former down, the scapula inwards and backwards, (which is the chief object,) and the arm backwards and elevated. To secure these objects more effectually, the arm is to be suspended in a short sling, by which it is made to support the scapula in its proper situation. At the conclusion of my lecture upon this subject I have always given this counsel to the pupils :—“ You are not to expect that the parts, after the utmost care in the treatment, will, in dislocations ol jgt either end of the clavicle, be exactly adjusted; some projection, some slight deformity will remain: and it is necessary, from the first moment of the treatment, that this should be stated to the patient, as he may otherwise suspect that the fault has arisen from it your ignorance or negligence. You may at the same time inform him, that a very good use of the limb will be recovered, although m onmo rloviotiAn from tlio notuvol mvm AT tho liovfc? mor vomoin in I* I some deviation from the natural form of the parts may remain, in a slight projection on the sternum, or some elevation of the sternal extremity of the clavicle.” DISLOCATION OF THE CLAVICLE WITH FRACTURE OF THE ACROMION. There is a preparation of this injury in the Museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital, and the following account of the case was given me by Mr. Smith. A man, aged sixty years, was admitted into King’s Ward. St. Thomas’s Hospital, October 19, 1814, having fallen from a tree two or three days before. The surgeon to whom he applied told him that nothing was injured; but he himself persisted in say- ing his shoulder was broken, and walked up from Maidstone to the hospital. On examination, his shoulder appeared fallen as if dis- placed; but a little attention shewed that this was not the case. What