OX WOUNDS OF THE BRAIN. 176 tion, fungi will spring up; and here (exhibiting a preparation) you have an opportunity of seeing an example of the disease to which I allude. Sometimes wounds of the brain extend even to the ventricles, and here (showing another preparation) you observe that one of the lateral ventricles was laid open. How restored. Now, gentlemen, some days after the brain has been wounded, the divided parts begin to unite by means of the adhesive inflam- mation ; if this process cannot effect a cure, granulations form, which at length project through the opening in the skull, and give rise to the fungus before mentioned. Upon proper treatment the safety of your patient depends. If you do not repress the growth of the fungus, there will be violent constitutional irritation, and the life of the person in jeopardy ; but, on the contrary, if you attend to the condition of the wound, and prevent the fungus from rising, there will be, comparatively speaking, but little danger. Treatment of Well, gentlemen, the treatment is as follows :—You are to apply fungus. to the fungus a piece of lint, moistened with liquor calcis, and over this, strapping of adhesive plaster; when you examine the part on the following day, you will find the fungus considerably diminished; you are then to use a thicker piece of lint, and the strapping as before; pursuing this plan, you at length get the fungus to the level of the scalp; but this is not sufficiently low for your purpose, therefore you must still thicken the lint until you have succeeded in getting it even with the edges of the dura mater, in which position it must be cautiously preserved ; when, at last, the dura mater heals over it, and your object is accomplished. We witness many examples of such cases in these hospitals. Formerly it was the practice in the treatment of these diseases to remove the bone contiguous to the fungus : immense quantities of bone in this manner were taken away, thereby affording every facility to the growth of the fungus, and which, of course, rapidly increased, until the patient was destroyed. By such treatment as this, no person could possibly recover: the method was a most injurious and stupid one : therefore let me caution you against adopting it. The plan of treatment which I have just recommended to you is