199 OF WOUNDS OF VEINS. he next finds great pain in extending the limb; the wound looks red, and its lips are separated. Then the plexus of veins on the fore arm become swollen, hard, and very painful; afterwards the basilic vein of the upper arm feels as a solid body, and is much enlarged. High constitutional fever ensues. If the patient has sufficient power of constitution, abscesses form in the veins of the fore arm ; and by opening these early, great relief is afforded; but if the habit be particularly feeble, the matter which is produced by the suppurative inflammation, does not point, but it remains in the veins, producing excessive constitutional irritation, which destroys life. Upon inspecting the vein after death, it is found partly filled by adhesive matter, and in part by pus. There is in the collection at St. Thomas’s Hospital, a beautiful specimen of abscess in the lon- gitudinal sinus of the dura mater. I have seen the jugular vein inflamed and adherent throughout the greater part of its course. We have, in the collection at Guy’s Hospital, the femoral and iliac veins obliterated, taken from a patient who had phlegmatia dolens; which disease has been extremely well described by Dr. Davis, in the “ Medico-Chirurgical Transactions.” But the worst cases of inflammation of veins which I have seen, have arisen from the application of ligatures to the vena saphena. First, I have seen a disease like phlegmasia dolens follow the divi- sion of this vein. Secondly, numerous abscesses form and break, sometimes de- stroying life, at others producing excessive irritative fever, from which the patient has been with difficulty recovered. One patient became insane during the irritation, and did not afterwards recover her mental faculties. Thirdly, they have died from suppurative inflammation, without any abscess appearing, and this is the cause of death after the operation of amputation, when it is performed during a very un- healthy state of the constitution. I have seen, under these circum- Appearances. Specimen. Division of the saphena. Consequences.