OF PUNCTURED ARTERIES. 187 | which the mouth of the vessel remains open, the coats of the artery are excessively elongated, and its sides fall together so as to render its canals impermeable. The best treatment is to apply ligatures upon lacerated arteries, if they be large; otherwise, when the powers of circulation are restored, there is a danger of haemorrhage. OF PUNCTURED ARTERIES. They produce different symptoms from the other wounds of ar- teries in this respect, that the external opening being small, the blood does not readily escape ; and therefore coagulates in the cel- lular tissue, and forms a swelling there, which gradually increases in size as the blood issues from the wound in the artery; the im- petus of the blood causes a pulsation ; and the cellular membrane, around the extravasated blood, being condensed, forms a sac, which impedes the evolution of the swelling. The external wound heals, and thus an aneurism is formed. It may be said that it differs from an aneurismal swelling in the mode of its production; and this is true, but it still has the other characters of the disease, and requires the same treatment. I have several times known it happen from bleeding in the arm; in one case the radial artery was wounded, but in all the other cases, the brachial artery. The first case was in a patient at Guy’s Hospital; a dresser of Mr. Lucas, senior, bled the man, and he came to me excessively alarmed, telling me what had happened, and that he had great diffi- culty in stopping the haemorrhage, but had at last succeeded, by applying a very tight bandage. A short time afterwards the man came to Guy’s, and showed his arm to Mr. Lucas, who, seeing the aneurism, and hearing the cause, told the man that he must submit [ to an operation, which the patient refused. In walking home, he j met an old acquaintance, to whom he told the circumstances ; this friend, who occasionally bled and drew teeth, said he would cure Treatment. Consequences. Puncture in bleeding. Case.