251 DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. tendons, and the laceration of blood-vessels, necessarily lead to more important and dangerous consequences than those which follow simple dislocations. With respect to the treatment of compound dislocations, I pro- Treatment, pose to reserve my remarks for that part of the work which relates to injuries of the ancle, where such observations will be required, and where they will be better understood; and thus a repetition, superfluous, and perhaps irksome, will be avoided. I shall just remark, that some joints are more liable to compound dislocations than others. The hip-joint is scarcely ever so dislocated ; of the shoulder I have known two instances; but the elbow, wrist, ancle, and fingers, are frequently the seats of this accident; and I have seen an instance of it in the knee. In consequence of their different formation, we find that in some Some joints joints dislocation is much more frequent than in others. Those ^"atedThlm1113' which have naturally extensive motions are easily luxated, and others, hence the dislocation of the os humeri occurs much more fre- quently than that of any other bone; and having once occurred, it happens again readily in the mere natural elevation of the arm. It is wisely ordained that, in those parts to which extensive mo- tion is assigned, and for which great strength is required, there is a multiplicity of joints. Thus, in the spine, in which great strength is necessary to protect the spinal marrow, numerous joints are formed; and the motion between any two of the bones is so small, that dislocations, except between the first and second vertebrae, rarely occur, although the bones are often displaced by fracture. The carpus and the tarsus are constituted on a similar prin- ciple ; they allow of considerable motion, yet maintain great strength of union. For if the motion between two bones, as in the spine, be multiplied by twenty-four, and that at the carpus by I eight, the result will shew that great latitude of motion is given, and the strength of the part preserved; whilst, if the spine had been formed of a single joint, dislocations might have easily hap- pened, and death from this cause have been a frequent occurrence.