4.10 DISLOCATIONS OF T1IE CLAVICLE. Ligaments. Internal coraco- clavicular. External coraco- clavicular. Symptoms. little finger of an adult and the cavity in the scapula which re- ceives it is very superficial, being not larger than is required to receive upon its surface the end of the clavicle. But the junction of the two bones is effected by much stronger means, through the medium of the coracoid process of the scapula, which sends forth two ligaments to the clavicle. The first proceeds from the root of the coracoid process, and is fixed in a small tubercle of the clavicle on its under side, at the insertion of the subclavius muscle, and two inches from the extremity of the bone. This ligament has been called the conoid, from its form, but may be better named the internal coraco-clavicular. The use of this ligament is, to bind down the clavicle to the scapula, and to confine the motion of the clavicle forwards and upwards. The second ligament of this part is called trapezoid; it proceeds from the coracoid process, and passes on the under side of the clavicle to near its scapular end, into which it is fixed; I call it the external coraco-clavicular. This ligament is the chief cause which lessens the tendency to dislocation of the scapular end of the clavicle : for when its capsular ligament is divided, the scapula cannot be forced under the clavicle without lacerating this ligament, so great is its resistance. It allows of very free motion of the scapula backwards and upwards, but confines its motions forwards. The motions of this extremity of the clavicle are per- formed by the subclavius muscle, although other muscles also move this bone. DISLOCATION OF THE SCAPULAR EXTREMITY OF THE CLAVICLE. This accident is more frequent than the dislocation of the sternal extremity. When this extremity of the bone is luxated, the signs by which the surgeon ascertains the nature of the injury are as follow. The shoulder on that side, when compared with the opposite, appears depressed, for the clavicle is formed to give support to the scapula, and that support is lost in consequence of the accident. The point of the shoulder approaches nearer to the