•211 ON TilE CURE OF ANEURISMS. you make the pressure, though the sac will not entirely empty itself; and upon raising your hand suddenly, you will observe a jet of hlood rush into the aneurismal sac, and raise it to its former height. In this manner an aneurism may be easily distinguished from Known from another tumour deriving its pulsation from an artery: in the former tumuur* case, the pulsation will be felt over every part of the tumour, in the latter there will be no pulsation, except in the direction of the artery. I have hurried over some parts of this evening’s lecture, as it is my intention to show you the operation for popliteal aneurism, having a subject which will answer the purpose extremely well. I shall postpone, therefore, some remarks which I have to make upon the medical treatment of aneurism, and proceed at once to speak of the surgical operation for its cure. . • ON THE CURE OF ANEURISMS. Aneurisms sometimes undergo a spontaneous cure. This is a Spontaneous circumstance which you should bear in mind, because in cases cure' where they are so situated as not to admit of surgical relief, it is a consolation to the patient to know that these diseases now and then cure themselves. There are many examples of such a spontaneous cure: I have myself seen some, and many more are to be found in surgical and medical authors. There is a preparation before us, taken from a man in the other Case, hospital, who had an aneurism, situated just below the groin, which underwent a spontaneous cure. He was sitting before the fire, in one of the wards of the hospital, when he felt something burst in the upper part of his thigh. On examination, he found no blood had issued out, and, in fact, the aneurism had not yet reached the skin so as to be adherent to it. His thigh was, however, enormously swollen; he was unable to use the limb, and was put to bed by the other patients. For three days after a pulsation was found in the aneurism; it then ceased, and the size of the limb began to diminish. At the end of four months the aneurismal swelling had considerably r 2