123 ON CRURAL HERNIA. posture; it dilates when the patient coughs, is elastic and uniform to the touch when it contains intestine, and gives a gurgling noise when it returns into the abdomen. When it contains omen- tum, the surface is less equal, it feels doughy, and gives no parti- cular sound when it returns into the abdominal cavity. The femoral hernia is much less likely to be confounded with other diseases than the inguinal, on account of the much more fre- quent formation of various tumours in the situation of the latter; but still there are some diseases which 1 have known to be mistaken for femoral hernia, and in the discrimination of which much care is requisite. In several instances, an enlarged gland in the groin has been mistaken for a femoral hernia; and, on the contrary, the hernia has been treated as an enlarged and suppurating gland ; but such mistakes must arise from inattention to the previous history of the case. Some years ago, a man was admitted into Guy’s Hospital with a strangulated hernia, over which a poultice had been applied for three days before his admission, under the supposition that it was a bubo. The operation was performed, and the intestine found gangrenous. Mr. Bethune, surgeon, at Westerham, in Kent, assured me, that he saw a patient who had been the subject of a strangulated femo- ral hernia, which had been poulticed for some days, and at length opened, when air and feculent matter escaped, and the patient died ten days after. When a femoral hernia and enlarged gland exist at the same time, an attentive and minute examination is sometimes requi- site to ascertain the existence of the former. I once saw a lady with Mr. Owen, surgeon to the Universal Dispensary, who had suffered from symptoms of strangulated hernia for nine days, and had been treated for inflammation of the intestines, as she had not mentioned the existence of a swelling in her groin. Mr. Owen discovered this swelling, and in conse- ! quence requested me to visit the patient, at the same time inform- Mistaken for other diseases. Enlarged gland. Case. Case. Hernia and enlarged gland. Case.