218 OPERATION FOR POPLITEAL ANEURISM. Mr. Aberne- thy’s method. process of ulceration had begun, he removed it before that period, that hemorrhage might be prevented, and the operation rendered simple; and in the first case of popliteal aneurism which he had after he thought of this plan, he tried the experiment, laid bare the artery, applied a broad ligature, and tied it firmly on the artery; but in order to prevent the knot slipping, he put between it and the vessel a small piece of cork. The first case on which he tried this, succeeded perfectly well. [Here the learned professor, pointing to a specimen taken from the man on whom this experiment had been tried, showed that the artery was quite obliterated.] The ligature remained on till the adhesive process had begun; hut before ulceration had taken place, the wound suppurated, and ultimately closed. The patient died some time after of an affection of the lungs; and on examination of the body, the artery was found as just described; but on repeating this mode of operation, it was soon ascertained that it produced more irritation than the other. Here is an example (pointing to a specimen), in which the artery ulcerated a short time after the broad ligature had been applied; it led to great irritation, and the process of ulceration was rendered more speedy; therefore the operation cannot be performed; and Mr. Cline, with all the candour for which he is so remarkable, gave it up, as an operation, however feasible, yet one that was attended with considerable risk. Well, then, it has been proposed, and very ingeniously, by Mr. Abernetliy, that two ligatures should be applied, and the artery divided between them. Now this idea arose from the circumstance, that where the ligatures are applied to arteries after limbs have been removed, no hemorrhage comes on; but the two cases essentially differ: in the one, where amputation has been performed, retraction of the artery, before the application of the ligature, has taken place; it is already drawn into the cellular tissue, and there is no danger of after hemorrhage from its retracting any more: but in the other, where ligatures are applied on arteries for the cure of aneurisms, as soon as the process of ulceration commences, hemorrhage often ensues from the retraction of the vessel, which