DISLOCATIONS OF THE OS HUMERI. 436 Treatment. sleep; leeches were frequently applied in the neighbourhood of the joint for the first ten days or fortnight, after which, a copious discharge of pus issued from the wound in the axilla. The con- stitution now felt the effects of so important an injury; he became irritable, restless, and lost flesh. Healthy pus was discharged freely from the joint for ten or twelve weeks, when it somewhat abated. A succession of small abscesses, situated in the cellular membrane surrounding the joint, were exceedingly troublesome for several months : some of them formed extensive sinuses, re- quiring to be freely dilated. The discharge of pus from the joint was kept up nearly twelve months, when it finally ceased, leaving the joint anchylosed, and the wound closed. He was quite reco- vered fourteen months after the accident, when he called on me, and felt gratified, by shewing how freely he could make use of the fore-arm, and handle his pen for all the purposes of business.” Such a case will require an immediate reduction, by the means which I have described for the dislocation of the os humeri for- wards ; and, in general, the greater the violence dong to the in- jured limb, the more easy is the reduction, from the diminution of the constitutional powers which so great a shock produces. When , the bone is replaced, lint dipped in blood is to be applied to the - j wound ; or if the wound be large, a suture should be employed, and then the lint applied: adhesive plaster should be used to sup- port approximation, and the limb should be kept close to the side by means of a roller passed round the body, including the arm, and thus preventing the least motion of the head of the bone: by these means the suppurative inflammation may be prevented, and i k the cure may proceed without protracted suffering, or any danger 4 to the patient’s life. u j t( an PARTIAL DISLOCATION OF THE OS HUMERI FORWARDS. I lei Mr. Bachelor, of Southville, aged thirty-six, fell from a chaise f on the 12th of November, and, as he supposes, pitched on his K Case.