(54 OX SL'PPUHaTIOX. Arteries and veins. Case. Joints wounded. The antrum highmorianum and the frontal sinuses also readily suppurate under inflammation. Arteries and veins, when inflamed, generally pass into the adhesive inflammation. It occasionally happens, however, that their inner coats suppurate: and I have more than once known persons die from the irritation thus excited. A man in Guy’s Hospital had a leg removed, for aver)’ unhealthy ulcer. In a day or two he became delirious, and shortly after died. When examined, no particular disease in his body was found; but the suppurative process had been set up in the arteries, and this caused the fatal catastrophe. Similar events -would follow the operations for aneurism, if the adhesive inflammation did not super- vene, instead of the suppurative ; for matter would form above the ligature, and, mixing with the blood, would destroy life. Sup- purative inflammation of the veins has often been known to come on after bleeding, and occasion death. Upon dissection, in these cases, matter has been found in the heart, mixed with the blood. Wounds made into joints are always dangerous; this has been said to arise from the admission of air. No name can be given to such a declaration but ignorant nonsense; for air has no power whatever of producing inflammation in these cavities, and he who says otherwise, knows nothing about it; the synovial membrane lining joints is a mucous membrane, and, therefore, quickly passes into the suppurative inflammation, which circum- stance renders an injury done to these parts exceedingly difficult to cure; besides, the internal surfaces of joints are much more extensive than you would imagine: you wrould be astonished, if if you saw the internal surface of the knee-joint spread out on this table. Joints are also composed of materials having in themselves very little restorative power, being formed of ligament, cartilage, and bone, parts that soon inflame, suppurate, and become absorbed. Whenever, therefore, you are called to accidents of joints, and where openings have been made into them, these you should endeavour to close as speedily as possible. Likewise, when you have to remove from these cavities extraneous bodies, you should