FRACTURES OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. 593 The cause of this injury is a blow upon the inner side of the foot, or some violence which forces it outwards against the lower extremity of the fibula ; and I have known it broken by distortion of the foot inwards. A fall laterally, whilst the foot is confined in a deep cleft, produces this accident. I broke my right fibula by falling on my right side whilst my right foot was confined between two pieces of ice, and I could with difficulty support myself to a neighbouring house by bearing upon the inner side of my foot. I went home in a carriage, and every jolt of it gave me pain at the fractured part as I suspended my leg upon my hand. I knew that the bone was broken by the severe snap which I felt in the part at the moment of the accident. The treatment which this injury requires is, to apply a many- tailed bandage upon the limb, and to keep it wet with a lotion of spir. vini, J aquae j v.: to apply a splint, with a foot piece upon each side, padded with cushions in such a manner as to preserve the great toe in a line with the patella, an invariable rule on these occasions; and to place the leg upon its side in the semiflexed position, so as to relax the muscles, and render the patient’s posi- tion as easy as possible. A want of attention to the treatment of this accident leads to permanent lameness. Dr. Blair, a naval physician in the American war, informed me that he found great difficulty in walking the streets of London on one side of the way, but upon the other he walked better than upon flat ground: and when I remarked his lameness, and inquired into its cause, he informed me, it had arisen from a fracture of the fibula, which happened many years iago; and to which not having applied splints, the foot became u! 11 twisted, so that he walked better upon an inclined plane than upon flat ground, re* ° ; FRACTURES OF THE TIBIA AT THE ANCLE-JOINT. The tibia is often broken into the ancle-joint, or through the bone a little above it; and these fractures pass rather obliquely Inwards, or obliquely outwards ; the first in a line from the usual Its cause. Its treatment. Lameness from neglect. Fracture of the tibia.