DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER JAW. 400 Ligaments. Muscles. Luxations. Complete lux- ation. Symptoms. A capsular ligament unites the condyloid process to the tem- poral cavity and to the prominence before it, and joins, in its passage from one bone to the other, the edge of the inter-articular cartilage ; whilst a strong internal lateral ligament passes from the margin of the articular cavity to the inner surface of the angle of the lower jaw. The jaw is drawn upwards and downwards, backwards and for- wards, and transversely. Its elevation is produced by the tem- poral, the masseter, and the pterygoideus internus ; its depression by the platysma myoides, digastricus, mylo hyoideus, genio hyoi- deus, and genio hyo glossus. The jaw is drawn backwards by the temporal muscle, and by a part of the masseter ; and when the os hyoides is fixed by the digastricus, the genio hyoideus, and genio hyo glossus, it is pulled forwards by a portion of the masseter, and by the combined action of the pterygoidei externi. The lateral motions of the jaw are principally produced by the contractions of the external pterygoid muscles, which in alternate actions pull the jaw from side to side, and give it, with the other muscles, its grinding action, in which these muscles are assisted by the oblique motion forwards, given to the jaw by the pterygoideus internus. The lower jaw is subject to two species of dislocation: viz., the complete and the partial. When the dislocation is complete, both the condyles of the jaw are advanced into the space between the zygomatic arch and the surface of the temporal bone; but when it is partial, one condyloid process only advances, and the other remains in the articular cavity of the temporal bone. COMPLETE LUXATION OF THE JAW. n II 1 IK il I III tl 111 se P lai fci pi !" in > f & in lot n k lo I III h This accident is indicated by the open state of the mouth, and by the impossibility of closing it, either by the patient’s efforts, or by pressure made upon the chin. The lower jaw may be still in some degree approximated to the upper by muscular efforts, |» but the lower teeth, if the mouth could be closed, would be in a line anterior to the upper. Some degree of depression of the jaw «