478 OF AMPUTATION THROUGH THE CARPUS. Of the foot. Case. Case. Cases. metacarpal bones may be amputated, the thumb being allowed to remain; the middle and ring fingers, the ring and little fingers ; or the middle, ring, and little fingers with their metacarpal bones, may, in like manner, be separated front the others. In the foot, the great toe and its metatarsal bone may be amputated from the others, or the others from it; or the second and third, the third and fourth, the fourth and fifth; or the third, fourth, and fifth may be removed together with their metatarsal bones. In one instance I removed the middle and ring fingers with their metacarpal bones ; approximating the fore and little fingers, which were not injured by bandage. The patient recovered quickly, having perfect use of the remaining portion of the extremity. I also, in another patient, amputated the thumb and the three inner fingers with their metacarpal bones, leaving only the fore finger, which was infinitely more useful than any artificial hook could have been. The metatarsal bone of the great toe I have several times had occasion to remove; and Mr. Key has amputated the four smaller toes, with their metatarsal bones, the two outer cuneiform, and the os cuboides, sucessfully; leaving the os calcis, astragalus, navicula and' internal cuneiform bones of the tarsus, with the metatarsal hone of the great toe and the toe itself. OF AMPUTATION THROUGH THE CARPUS. Instruments. The only instrument required is the catling. Before commencing- the operation, the tourniquet should be Application of ° r ^ the tourniquet, applied on the upper arm. The patient being seated in a chair, the surgeon first makes a circular incision through the integument, just over the bases, of the metacarpal bones, which should include more of the integument upon the back of the hand than towards the palm ; he then dissects the skin back as far as the styloid process of the radius ; the integument is held back by an assistant, whilst the surgeon takes hold of the hand he is about to remove ; and, feeling for the