353 ON THE AREOLAR, OR MAMMILLARY TUMOUR. At the age of seven years, and from that period until puberty, •^QgCa^r'vtlicl1 children are not unfrequently subject to the swelling behind the nipple, or mammilla of the breast. This swelling occupies a circle of an inch or more, involving the posterior part of the nipple. The Child, feeling uneasiness in the part, is led to examine it Symptoms, with attention, and then finds a swelling, which is generally tender to the touch, and is sometimes, though not commonly, acutely sensitive. The skin over it is undiscoloured; it moves freely upon the pectoral muscle; but the nipple moves with it. I have seen it frequently both in boys and girls; but I think more frequently in the male than in the female. It generally affects only one breast; but sometimes, though rarely, it exists in both. It does not appear to accompany a scrofulous disposition, but is found in irritable young persons. The age at which it has most frequently presented itself to my observation, has been from eight to twelve years. Within this period, then, a surgeon will be sometimes called upon to remedy a hard circular sensitive tumour behind the nipple and areola. Its cause I shall presently proceed to explain, when existing at this period of life. I have never seen it productive of any serious disease. Some- Not productive times, however, it endures for several months, if attention be not chief* °US " ^ paid to the means for its removal. The best mode of treatment consists in the application of the Treatment, emplastrum ammoniaci cum hydrargyro, and in giving small doses either of the hydrargyrus cum creta, with rhubarb or of the oxymurias hydrargyri, with bark or sarsaparilla ; under the in- fluence of which remedies, it generally becomes gradually absorbed in the space of from two to three months. It sometimes yields to evaporating lotions. The same part which is affected posterior to the nipple, in earlier Disease in the periods of life, becomes the seat of more serious disease in after ac,ult'