477 DISLOCATIONS OF THE FINGERS AND TOES. returned without difficulty to its natural situation. The integu- ments being brought and confined over the bone by suture, a poultice is applied ; and under common circumstances, where the degree of bruise has not been very considerable, a cure is per- fected. Sometimes, however, the metacarpal bone becomes so much detached from the trapezium, and the muscles are so se- verely torn, that it is necessary to remove the thumb; in which case, it is best to saw off the articular surface of the trapezium. Such a case happened lately to a servant of Mr. Grover, of Hemel Hempstead ; the metacarpal bone of the thumb was dislocated, and the muscles were so much lacerated that it became necessary to remove the thumb at the os trapezium: but the articular surface of the trapezium projected so far, that the integuments could not be brought over it: I therefore directed this surface to be sawn off, through the os trapezium; and a poultice being applied, the man recovered by the granulating process. DISLOCATION OF THE FIRST PHALANX. This accident may be either simple or compound. In the simple dislocation the first phalanx is thrown back upon the metacarpal bone; the lower extremity of the latter projects very much inward towards the palm of the hand, and the extremity of the phalanx projects backwards. The motion of that joint is lost, but that of the thumb, through the medium of the metacarpal bone and tra- pezium, remains free; so that as an opponent to the fingers its power of action continues: but with respect to flexion and exten- sion, which are performed between the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx, they are destroyed by the dislocation. The extension is to be made by bending the thumb towards the palm of the hand, to relax the flexor muscles as much as possible; and the following is the general mode to be adopted in dislocations of the toes, thumb, and fingers. The hand is to be first steeped in warm water for a considerable time, to relax the parts as much as possible; then a piece of thin wetted leather, wash-leather for instance, is to be put around the first phalanx and as closely Diagnostic marks of simple dislocation of the first phalanx. Mode of reduc- tion.