ON THE DESCENT OE THE TESTIS. 288 Descent of the testis. which it draws after it from the abdomen to the testis, is the tunica vaginalis of the cord. Very soon after the descent of the testes, the peritoneum becomes closed by the process of adhesion; and it closes first towards the abdomen, then gradually lower down, but the exact time of its being shut is uncertain. At the ninth month I have often found both open, and I have often seen one open, and the other closed. The peritoneum becomes shut from the abdomen nearly to the testis; and thus it forms it into a bag, which is the tunica vaginalis, from which a vaporific secretion proceeds in its natural state, which becomes serous when the secretion is too abundant, producing hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. The time at which the testis descends, varies greatly in different persons. They generally reach the scrotum before the birth of the infant; but it often happens that one is placed in the scrotum, and the other remains in the abdomen, or in the inguinal canal, just above the external ring, or sometimes it just emerges from the ring. It is in these situations exposed to injury and violence; and if it remain in these unnatural places, it is rather prone to disease of a malignant character. I have many times seen the testis descending from thirteen to seventeen years, viz.: about the age of puberty, probably from some new excitement at that period; and the descent is in some cases not accomplished until the age of twenty-one. When the testis remains in the abdomen, it makes a strong impression upon the patient’s mind, as a suspicion arises that his virility is lessened or destroyed. In a case of this kind I have known the unfortunate subject of it commit suicide. Yet the testis in this case, and in others which I have examined, was nearly of the same size as a healthy testis when deprived of its tunica vaginalis; and the seminiferous tubes were full of semen. It often happens that when a testis remains in the inguinal canal, there are severe spasms of the cremaster, or muscles of that canal,