FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. 309 for if their broken extremities in any part of the body be kept much asunder, ossific union is prevented. In a boy, who had a compound fracture of the tibia, without the j fibula being broken *, and who had the protruded end sawn off, the | two extremities were prevented from coming in contact by the fibula, and union never occurred. My friend, Mr. Smith, an ex- cellent surgeon, at Bristol, had a similar case under his care, in which a portion of the tibia having been sawn off, the fibula, remaining whole, prevented ossific union f. This fact is easily seen by experiments on animals. I sawed seven-eighths of an inch of the radius from a rabbit, and the ends of the bones were not united to each other, but only to the ulna. I also sawed off the extremity of the os calcis, and suffered it to be drawn up by the action of the gastrocnemius muscle ; and it united only by ligament. The neck of the thigh-bone when broken, is placed under similar circumstances; for, by the contraction of the muscles, it is | no longer in apposition with the head of the bone, and is, there- I fore, prevented from uniting: if this, however, were the only ' obstacle, it would be argued that the retraction of the thigh-bone [might be prevented by bandaging and extension,—the truth of ' If the fibula be broken, large pieces of the tibia will separate, and yet ossific union will ensue. ■f The particulars of the case were as follow :—The boy was admitted into the Bristol Infirmary for disease of the tibia ; and the diseased portion not ex- ceeding more than from two to three inches in length, that part of the bone was •emoved by a saw. In a month the limb had acquired so much firmness, that lie boy was permitted to walk about the ward, which he was able to perform | olerably well; and in six weeks no doubt was entertained that ossification had 1 aken place in the uniting substance ; at this time he sickened with the small jioxand died. Upon examination, the edges of the extremities of the tibia were lound absorbed and rounded ; and on the inferior portion, a bony callus had lormed, about three quarters of an inch in extent; no ossific matter was dis- coverable in the greater part of the space originally occupied by the diseased jone; but a tough, though thin ligamentous band extended from the superior > the inferior portion of the tibia.—See Medical Records and Researches.