IN THE FEMALE. 113 of the round ligament, is at first confined to the inguinal canal, where it is covered by the tendon of the external oblique, and subsequently it protrudes through the external ring, and forms a swelling at the upper part of the labium, which seldom acquires a large size ; here it is covered by a superficial fascia given off from ] the tendon of the external oblique. It is produced by the same causes in the female as in the male, i and presents the same symptoms. The sac usually contains either intestine or omentum, or both, but sometimes the appendages of the uterus are found in it. As the round ligament in the female is not liable to the same affections as the spermatic cord of the male, the hernia in the former case is not likely to be confounded as it frequently is in the latter case with such diseases. I have, however, known this form of hernia in the female mistaken for a femoral hernia, which may readily be imagined when we recollect the proximity of the parts concerned. A careful examination will readily enable the surgeon to dis- tinguish between the two, as in the inguinal the neck of the tumour is above Poupart’s ligament, and in the femoral below; in the former, also, the spinous process of the pubes can be readily felt outside the swelling, which it cannot be in the latter. When this hernia can be reduced, a truss, similar to that ne- cessary for a male, is to be employed. When irreducible, the same treatment as recommended for the male will be proper. If intestinal and small, a truss with a hollow pad; if omental, a common pad; and when the hernia is very large, a T bandage, to give support and prevent increase. Should this hernia become strangulated, the taxis should be first employed in the same way as in the other sex; and should this not succeed, bleeding, the warm bath, ice, the tobacco enema, or other means to assist reduction, should be had recourse to. The usual means having failed to relieve the strangulation, an {operation becomes necessary, which should be performed in the following manner. Causes. Less liable to mistake than in the male. How distin- guished from femoral. Reducible. Irreducible. Strangulated. VOL. II. I