OF amputation of tiif. fingers. 477 If the vessels which are divided in any of these amputations afford a troublesome haemorrhage, which cannot be readily checked by pressure, it will be proper to secure such vessels by ligatures, before the edges of the wound are finally approximated; and after any amputation, when a ligature has been applied upon an artery, one of the ends of the silk should be cut off a little beyond the knot on the vessels, as it is perfectly useless, and, if allowed to remain, only tends to increase irritation. When it becomes necessary to remove any of the toes, they should be amputated at the joint in preference to separating the extremity of the metatarsal bone ; because it is desirable to preserve the width of the foot and support of the body, which would be diminished by the removal of part of the metatarsal bone. The operation may be performed in the same way as that last described for the removal of the fingers, excepting that the incisions should not reach beyond the joint, which should be opened from the side, as in the amputations at the second and third joints. After any of these operations upon the toes, the patient should observe the recumbent posture, until union of the edges of the wound has been effected. Amputation should be performed through the metacarpal or metatarsal bones, when all the fingers or toes are so much injured as to require removal; it is much better tlian amputating through the carpal or tarsal bones, as, in the hand, the patient afterwards derives great advantage from the use of the carpus, which is thus preserved ; and, in the foot, the insertions of the tibialis anticus, with those of the peroneus longus and brevis being uninjured, the remaining part of the foot is much more useful, than when the metatarsal bones are entirely removed: in either case the wound unites sooner than when the articulations are exposed. In some cases, if the injury or disease does not extend to all the metacarpal or metatarsal bones, only such as are injured or diseased should be amputated. Thus, in the hand, the thumb with its metacarpal bone alone may be removed, or all the fingers with their Application of ligatures to the vessels. Toes to be amputated at the joints. Operation nearly the same as before mentioned. After- treatment. Amputation through the metacarpus or metatarsus. Portions of the hand removed.