G1 AND USE OF TRUSSES. an infant should be carefully examined to ascertain whether the testicle has descended through the external ring, as the non-de- scent of the testicle forbids the application of a truss; the sac in such cases is formed by the elongation of the tunica vaginalis, and any pressure made upon it will necessarily prevent the descent of the testicle into the scrotum. The application of a truss should therefore be deferred until the testis has fairly descended below the external ring. The nature of this hernia will be described under the subject of hernia congenita. When a hernia has been cured by adhesion, as the peritoneum which forms the sac is a secreting membrane, an accumulation of water sometimes collects in it, for a species of hydrocele. The treatment of this disease should be similar to that of hydrocele from other causes. During the application of a truss it is proper that every part of the protruded contents should be carefully returned, so that no compression be made on them ; and if the patient should find that any part has again descended, he should place himself in a recum- bent posture, take off the truss, push back the hernia with his hand, and again apply the truss. A person obliged to use a truss, who allows of the descent of a portion of the hernia whilst this instru- ment is worn, is in greater danger of strangulation of the part than if he wore no truss at all. For when unprotected by this bandage he always feels his danger, and is ready to guard against it; but a bad truss gives the idea of security without ensuring its reality. When it is clearly ascertained that adhesion of the neck of the sac is effected, the use of the truss may be discontinued; but as this will generally be a matter of uncertainty, great caution must be used before the truss is laid aside. At first the patient may dis- continue it at night, taking care to replace it before he rises from bed ; he may afterwards remove it, when he is not called upon to make any violent exertion; but before it is wholly laid aside the surgeon should make a particular examination of the abdominal rings, to ascertain if, on coughing or other sudden action of the ab- Cautions neces- sary in discon- tinuing a truss.