268 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. Case. which he has represented of this accident, was one little calculated for success, in cases where the means were not used immediately after the injury had been sustained. But I state this with great deference, because I am not sure, that in all respects, I understand the description of the method which he adopted; nor do I think that I should be able, from that description, to be certain that I was pursuing the means by which he succeeded. I may here observe, and I trust without ostentation, that the methods which I have recommended, are the result of considerable experience; that they have been successful in a great number of cases; and that they have very rarely failed, under the most dis- advantageous circumstances. They may require a little variation, from some slight difference in the position, but this will only be an exception to a general rule, and will very rarely occur. The following cases will serve as illustrations of the history and treatment of dislocations on the dorsum ilii; the first of them points out, in a striking manner, the evils that ensue when dislo- cation of the hip-joint remains unreduced, and the advantages arising from the use of pulleys in effecting its reduction. It shews also that such dislocation may happen in a strong healthy man, even after he has attained the age of sixty. DISLOCATION ON THE DORSUM ILII. James Ivory, aged sixty-two, of Pottensend, Herts, on the 7th of February, 1810, was working in a clay-pit, twenty-five feet be- low the surface of the earth, when a large quantity of clay fell in upon him, while he was in the act of stooping with his left knee bent rather behind the other ; and he was, in this position, buried under the earth. Being soon removed from this perilous situation and carried home, a surgeon was sent for, who discovering the accident to be a dislocation, directly employed some men to extend the limb, whilst he attempted to push the head of the bone into the acetabulum ; but all his efforts were unavailing, as, unfortunately