OF TIIE SPERMATIC CORD BELOW THE EXTERNAL RING. 283 of stricture in inguinal hernia, in the course of the canal, and Dissection of the inguinal nearly at the upper ring. canal. Behind this insertion of the transversalis, the internal portion of the fascia transversalis appears, adhering strongly to the tendon of that muscle at the back of the inguinal canal. Thus the inguinal canal is, at its anterior part, formed by the tendon of the external oblique; on its posterior, by the tendon of the transversalis, and by its folded muscular fibres; behind which is the fascia transversalis, into which those fibres are also inserted. It contains the spermatic cord, and the internal oblique muscle. Its lower part is bounded by the external abdominal ring, formed by the separation of the tendons of the external oblique muscle; and at its upper extremity are placed the two portions of the fascia transversalis, forming, with the tendon of the transversalis, the internal ring: the anterior, continued from the edge of Poupart’s ligament to the outer side of the spermatic cord ; the posterior, or internal, descending behind Poupart’s ligament, to form the crural sheath, and ascending behind the spermatic cord, and tendon of the transversalis. Between the two layers passes the spermatic cord. From the edge of the two portions of the fascia, a layer of membrane extends, in a funnel shape, uniting itself with the spermatic cord: thus the cord becomes united to each aperture through which it passes—at the external ring, by the fascia superficialis; at the upper part of the canal, by membranous processes from the fascia transversalis, which descend upon and envelope the spermatic cord. The epigastric artery, arising from the external iliac at Poupart’s ligament, curves inwards and upwards, behind the inguinal canal, to the rectus muscle, giving an artery to the cremaster in its course. OF THE SPERMATIC CORD BELOW TIIE EXTERNAL RING. The cord is covered by a superficial fascia, which is situated Spermatic immediately beneath the integuments. It is loosely attached to the cortl’ &c' tendon of the external oblique muscle, and adheres strongly to the