DISLOCATIONS OF THE RIBS. 480 Treatment. Cartilages. Cartilage for- cibly separated. Treatment. of these bones: their motions would be painful, and respiration necessarily difficult. The treatment which would be required, would also be the same as that which is pursued in fracture of the ribs: viz., the abstrac- tion of blood, and the application of a circular bandage: the former to prevent inflammation of the pleura and lungs: the latter to lessen the motion of the ribs. Any attempt made to effect their reduction would be entirely fruitless. The cartilages connecting the ribs with the sternum, frequently appear to have been dislocated from the extremities of the ribs, and sometimes from the sternum. Mothers have several times brought their children to me, saying, “ My child has some time since had a fall, and see how the form of its breast is altered.” The sixth, seventh, and eighth cartilages of the ribs are most fre- quently the subjects of this alteration of form; and when the ribs are carefully examined, it is found that their natural arch is di- minished, their sides flattened, and, consequently, the extremities of the ribs, with their cartilages, thrust forward. The appearance which is thus produced is the result of constitutional weakness, and not of the accident to which it is attributed. The termination of the cartilages at the sternum sometimes projects from a similar cause, giving rise to the same false im- pressions upon the minds of the parents, that the circumstance must have arisen from accident, and not from disease. Sometimes however, but very rarely, a cartilage is torn from the extremity of the rib, and projects over its surface; when this happens, a similar treatment is required as in fracture of the ribs. The patient is to be directed to make a deep inspiration, and then the projecting cartilage is to be pressed into its natural situation; a long piece of wetted pasteboard should be placed in the course of three of the ribs and their cartilages, the injured rib being in the centre : this dries upon the chest, takes the exact form of the parts, prevents motion, and affords the same support as a splint upon a fractured limb. A flannel roller is to be applied over this splint, and a