ON INJURIES OE THE HEAD. 155 must be taken in small quantities, and you must watch the patient with the greatest possible anxiety, for the symptoms can alone regulate your practice. Sometimes it is necessary to take away large quantities of blood. Case. I was called to a gentleman who had fallen from his horse, in riding to London. I found him insensible on my arrival. Mr. Constable, who attended him, had already bled him, but I judged it necessary to bleed him again largely, and I took blood in smaller quantities from him day after day, watching the pulse with the greatest anxiety, and bleeding him only so far as to reduce the hardness of the pulse without diminishing too much the powers of his body. The whole quantity of blood taken from this gentleman, by bleeding from the arm, opening the temporal artery, and the application of leeches, as far as this could be estimated, amounted to about two hundred and eight ounces of blood. One hundred and eighty ounces were taken from the arm: yet such was the hardness of the pulse, that at the last bleeding there was some degree of inflammation of the brain indicated. You are to use bleeding as a means of preventing inflammation; Bleeding to be , . . , .. c .1 , employed as a but you are not to resort to it as a matter ot course the moment you preventive. are called to a patient under 'concussion. A man falls from his horse, and the instant he is picked up from the ground, some surgeons think it necessary to take the lancet from their pocket. This conduct is quite irrational; for suppose the pulse could scarcely be felt at the wrist of the patient, and the surgeon were in such a case asked why he proceeded to bleed; what would his answer be ? The probability is, that he would have no answer at all ready; or he would, perhaps, say that he bled him because the accident had brought a great quantity of blood to the brain, as if the shaking of the head could have any effect in producing a determination of blood to the brain. It is not with this view that we bleed in concussion, but in order to prevent inflammation. I have seen many a patient who would have died if a large quantity of blood had been taken at the time of the accident. This was the case with the gentleman who was attempting to shave himself, whose