274 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. Case. Case. Case. this debilitating cause, he was carried into the operating theatre in a state of great exhaustion. Being placed on a table on his left side, the bandage was applied in the usual manner to fix the pelvis, and the pulleys were fastened to a strap around the knee ; the thigh was drawn obliquely across the other, not quite two- thirds of its length downwards, and the extension was continued for ten minutes, when the bone slipped into the socket. The man was discharged from the hospital in three weeks from the period of his admission, making a rapid progress towards a recovery of the perfect use and strength of the limb. From the following cases it will be seen we are not to despair of success, even when a considerable time has elapsed after the accident. 1 Mr. Mayo has mentioned the case of William Honey, who came into the hospital in August, 1812. The dislocation had taken place seven weeks before, and was reduced the day after his admission. He was discharged cured, on the 18th of November. • ' it —This was a dislocation on the dorsum ilii. Mr. Tripe, surgeon at Plymouth, has sent to the Medico- Chirurgical Society, an account of a case of dislocation of the thigh-bone on the dorsum ilii, which had happened seven weeks and one day prior to his making an extension, in which he was' so fortunate as to succeed in restoring the bone to its natura situation. 4 . , The following instances prove, indeed, that the dislocation 01 the dorsum ilii may be reduced without pulleys ; but they show a the same time how desirable that mechanical aid would have been especially in the first two instances. William Piper, aged twenty-five years, sustained an injury fron the wheel of a cart, laden with hay, which passed between his legs and over the upper part of his right thigh. Mr. Holt, surgeon a Tottenham, was sent for nearly a month after the accident: hi found him in great pain, attended with fever, and with much loca inflammation and tension. He bled him copiously, purged hin