FRACTURES OF T1?E UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. 325 I fracture within the ligament, to that which I have described. A : few contributions of a similar kind, from the ardent cultivators of morbid anatomy, would soon prevent persons from being tortured | with trials, which have been frequently repeated, and found to be uniformly unavailing. FRACTURES OF THE CERVIX FEMORIS EXTERNAL TO THE CAPSULAR LIGAMENT, AND INTO THE CANCELLI OF THE TROCHANTER MAJOR. The symptoms of this accident in some respects resemble those of the fracture within the ligament, and they require much atten- tion to distinguish them accurately; but the result is entirely dif- ferent ; so that a favourable opinion may be given as to the re- storation of the bone by an ossific union. In this accident, the injured leg is shorter than the other by one half to three quarters of an inch; the foot and toe on that side are j everted, from the loss of support which the body of the thigh-bone sustains in consequence of the fracture; much pain is felt at the : hip, and on the inner and upper part of the thigh; and the joint | loses its usual roundness. The distinguishing signs of this accident are,—First:—It some- times occurs at the earlier periods of life; for it happens in the i young, and in the adult under fifty years of age, although I have known it at a later period, when it often proves fatal; but if the above symptoms are seen at any age under fifty years, there will be generally found a fracture external to the capsular ligament, and capable of ossific union. Several cases of these which have fallen under my notice have occurred under that period; and, therefore, a surgeon called to the bed-side of a patient who has an injury to the upper part of the thigh-bone, if he finds the age of ■the patient to be under fifty years, will, with very few exceptions, be warranted in pronouncing it either a fracture just external to the ligament, or one through the trochanter major. But I also mention that both fractures occur in age, and therefore no discrimi- nation can be drawn between the two, in advanced age, but by the most careful examination. Symptoms. Diagnostic marks. Union of the bone.