265 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. hips, the roundness of the dislocated side will be found to have ; disappeared. A surgeon, when called to a severe and recent injury of the hip-joint, looks for difference in length, change of position inwards, diminution of motion, and decreased projection of the tro- chanter. The accident with which the dislocation upwards is liable to be confounded is, the fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone within the capsular ligament. Yet the marks of distinction are, in gene- ral, sufficiently strong to be unequivocal to a person commonly at- tentive. In a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, the knee and foot are generally turned outwards ; the trochanter is drawn up- wards and backwards, resting upon the dorsum ilii; the thigh can be readily bent towards the abdomen, although with some pain; but above all, the limb, which is shortened according to the dura- tion of the accident, from one to two inches, by the contraction of the muscles, can be made the length of the other by a slight ex- tension : and when the extension is abandoned, the leg is again shortened. If the limb when drawn down be rotated, a crepitus can often be felt, which ceases to be perceived when rotation is per- formed under a shortened state of the limb. Fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, within the capsular ligament, rarely occurs but in advanced age; and the most trifling accident is sufficient to pro- duce it, in consequence of the interstitial absorption which this part of the bone undergoes at advanced periods of life. Fractures externally to the capsular ligament, occur at any age, and they are easily distinguished by the crepitus which attends them, if the limb be rotated and the trochanter compressed with the hand. The position is the same as in fractures within the ligament. Fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone are very frequent accidents when compared with dislocations. Diseases of the hip-joint can scarcely ever be confounded with dislocations from violence, but by those who are ignorant of anatomy, and who are very superficial observers. The gradual progress of the symptoms, the pain in the knee, with the apparent elongation at first, and real shortening afterwards; the capacity Distinction from fracture of the neck of the femur. Diseases of the hip-joint.