355 OF TIIE FUNGOUS TUMOUR OF THE MAMMILLA. have ever known recommended, or seen employed, seems to have the least influence in preventing its destructive effect, its removal must necessarily be effected either by the knife, or by the applica- tion of arsenic. The former mode is vastly preferable to the latter, it is upon the whole less painful in the execution, and it is of more certain efficacy in completely removing the disease. Arsenic, on the contrary, often but partially removes the complaint: and the irritation which it excites extends the disease to the neighbouring absorbent glands. The absorption of the mineral, also, sometimes produces serious effects upon the constitution. When the disease is clearly and completely removed by the knife, the edges of the wound are brought together, and they readily unite by adhesion. If the disease has been neglected, if extensive ulceration has Treatment if an operation ensued, and the complaint has proceeded beyond the relief which is cannot be per- to be derived from surgical operation, the applications which I have formed- seen most advantageous in tranquillizing the sore, and improving its appearance, have been chalk and opium, in the proportion of an ounce of the former to a drachm of the latter; oxyde of zinc and opium in the same proportions; or oxide of bismuth with opium. These means, however, only retard the progress of the disease, rendering the descent to the grave a little more easy and a little less rapid, but they do not prevent the fatal termination of the complaint. OF THE FUNGOUS TUMOUR OF THE MAMMILLA. Of the fungous tumour of this part I have seen three different Symptoms, instances, each of which existed in the male, and each was removed. The tumours began behind the nipple, which adhered firmly to their surfaces. They were globular, and did not possess the hardness of true scirrhus, but felt at first more like simple chronic tumours, and grew less firm as they increased. They were but slightly tender when pressed, and entirely free from pain. They neither of them had ulcerated. After they had existed for several months they began to increase rapidly, and this circumstance excited 2 a 2