428 DISLOCATIONS OF THE OS IIUMEIU. Slight force ne- cessary for re- ductions after repeated disloca- tion. Symptoms. and disposing their legs so that the soles of their feet are opposed to each other, behind and before the patient. If occasion should , require a greater force than the power of two men, another assist- ant or more may be placed at the backs of the first two, sitting close up to them with their faces turned towards the patient; the extension is now made, with the arm raised nearly to a right angle with the body, and in the direction forwards or backwards, as the > circumstances of the case may require. The force should be maintained until it is perceived that the head of the bone (which can be easily felt, and should be pressed upon during the opera- tion) has moved from its new situation ; and when the head of the bone is found to change its position, the assistants should slowly diminish their force, while the surgeon directs it towards the glenoid cavity, by pressing the elbow to the side of the patient and slightly raising it. When a person has frequently dislocated his shoulder, a very slight effort is sufficient to restore the limb to its place; and I know a gentleman in the country who has frequently returned the dislocated head of the humerus into its situation, by walking up to a gate, reaching over as far as he could, and then holding by one of its lower bars, the upper bar of the gate being pressed firmly into the axilla; still retaining his hold, he suffers his body to sink on the other side of the gate, and the head of the bone is thus pushed into the glenoid cavity ; this mode of reduction is the same in principle as that of the heel in the axilla, which, as I have already mentioned, in three fourths of recent dislocations, is the best for effecting the reduction. DISLOCATION FORWARDS, BEHIND THE PECTORAL MUSCLE, AND BELOW THE MIDDLE OF THE CLAVICLE. This species of dislocation is much more distinctly marked than the former. The acromion is more pointed, and the hollow below it, from the depression of the deltoid muscle, is much more con- siderable. The head of the os humeri can be readily and distinctly felt, and even seen, in thin persons, just below the clavicle ; and