INGUINAL HERNIA. 95 I was requested during the absence of Mr. Chandler, to operate Case. i the operation, free from the usual marks of gangrene, and yet in j a few days the faeces will be discharged from the wound ; this will j occur when the strangulation has gone so far that the intestine ■ cannot recover its circulation after being returned into the abdo- ! men ; it is advisable, under such doubtful circumstances, to re- place the intestine at the mouth of the sac, that the faeces may be I readily evacuated at the wound as soon as the gangrenous portion | begins to separate by the ulcerative process. Should the intestine be in a state of gangrene, it will have a foetid smell, the peritoneal surface will have lost its brilliancy, and be of a dark port wine colour, with greenish spots on it; it will not possess any sensibility, and will easily give way under slight pressure. Under these circumstances, the stricture should be divided in the manner I have described, after which, a free incision should be made into the gangrenous intestine, to allow of the escape of its j contents, and then it should be returned to the upper part of the jsac, the wound should be left open, and a poultice applied ; but if ! the portion of intestine which has descended be not large, it should 1 not be disturbed from its adhesions to the sac. upon a woman who had been admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital, under his care, with strangulated hernia. From the examination of the part, and from the history of the case previous to my seeing j the patient, I imagined that gangrene had commenced, and I soon found this opinion to be correct; for, before I had opened the hernial sac, there was a highly offensive and putrid smell. On opening the sac, I found the intestine in the state I have before described; I therefore divided the stricture, and then made an incision of about an inch and a half in extent, on the anterior part j of the gangrenous intestine, through which the faeces readily es- caped. I afterwards directed that a poultice should be applied. Faeculent matter continued to be discharged through the wound; but nine days subsequent to the operation she had a stool, pl- anum, after which the patient passed her stools by the natural the intestine may deceive. Intestine gan- grenous. Treatment of gangrenous in- testine.