403 DISLOCATIONS OF TIIF. LOWER JAW. but this mode does not so easily succeed as the others, excepting in recent dislocations. When the jaw has been once dislocated, Liable to recur. it is very liable to the same accident, and therefore a broad tape, with a hole cut in it to receive the chin, divided into four ends by splitting on one side some way down, is to be tied over the summit of the head and occiput, to confine the jaw until the lacerated parts have healed, by which the tendency to subsequent luxation is diminished. PARTIAL DISLOCATION OF THE JAW'. In this case, the condyloid process advances under the zygomatic Partial dislora- arch on one side only, producing an incapacity to close the mouth : l'°n‘ but is not so widely opened as in the complete dislocation. It !is easy to distinguish this accident, as the chin is thrown to the Symptoms, side opposite to the luxation, and the incisores teeth are not only advanced upon the upper jaw, but are no longer in a line with the axis of the face. The cause of this accident is a blow on the side of the face when the mouth is opened, and in one case it occurred from vomiting in sea sickness. In this example, the lady, Miss Belfour, daughter of the late Admiral Belfour, of Ports- mouth, reduced her jaw by an oyster-knife, which she turned half round upon the side of the jaw between the teeth, and so returned it to its place. In this injury, the lever of wood reduces the bone most easily, but the cork may be used on one side, and the chin be elevated, as in those cases in which the dislocation is complete. SUBLUXATION OF THE JAW'. As in the knee, the thigh-bone is sometimes thrown from its Symptoms, semilunar cartilages, so the jaw appears occasionally to quit the inter-articular cartilage of the temporal cavity, slipping before its edge, and locking the jaw, with the mouth slightly opened. It generally happens, that this dislocation is quickly removed by jnatural efforts alone; but I have seen it continue for a length of time, and the motion of the jaw, and the power of closing d d 2