281 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. The upper part of the thigh-bone was thrown backwards, so as to render the hollow of the groin on the injured side deeper than that on the other. The toes were rather everted; but when the body was erect, were capable of resting on the ground, though the | heel was not. The head of the bone could not be felt, and the trochanter was much less prominent than usual. When the upper i part of the thigh-bone was pressed against the new acetabulum, | and moved, there was a sensation of friction between two cartila- ginous surfaces; which, although not easily described, is readily distinguished from the crepitus occasioned by a fractured bone. In a sitting posture the injured leg was two inches longer than the i other; and to that degree the knee was projected beyond the sound one. In progression, the knee was bent; and the body being thrown forwards, the patient rested chiefly upon his toe, and halted exceedingly in walking. The sartorius and gracilis muscles were put very much upon the stretch. At first he suffered from pain in the dislocated hip and thigh, but that is not now the case unless he attempts to stand on that limb only. His toe at first ; was with difficulty brought to the ground, but he is now improved I in walking; for on the first trial, with the assistance of a crutch and stick, he could not exceed half a mile, but is now able to I walk two miles. In flexion his thigh admits of considerable mo- tion, but he cannot extend it further than to bring the ham to the plane of the other patella. The knees cannot be brought together, i but he advances one before the other in the attempt. He can sit i without pain, but the jolting of a carriage hurts him exceedingly ; and the attempt to sit on horseback produces excessive suffering. He cannot straighten his leg when his body is erect, nor can he stoop to tie his shoe on the injured side. Pain is produced by resting on that hip in bed. No attempt was made to reduce the i limb ; the injury to the head might have rendered it dangerous in i the commencement, and at the time when I saw him there was no ; chance of success.