106 OF HERNI/E IN THE Coverings. Mistaken. Case. Mode of ope- rating. guinal canal, and does not emerge through the external ring. It is often difficult to detect in the living subject, as there is no dis- tinct tumour perceptible, but merely a fulness above Poupart’s liga- ment. When strangulated, the usual symptoms are present, and the part is very tender on pressure, or during coughing. This hernia is covered by the superficial fascia, the tendon of the external oblique muscle, by a thin fascia from the edge of the internal ring, and in part by the cremaster muscle, the spermatic cord and the epigastric artery lie posterior to it. These hernias, when strangulated, are often mistaken for cases of peritoneal inflammation, as the patient is not conscious of having a swelling; and thus he may fall a victim to the disease, without a suspicion of its true nature. A patient was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital with a hernia of this description, strangulated, which was treated as peritoneal inflammation, for five days before the true nature of the complaint was discovered. There was a fulness above Poupart’s ligament, which was painful on pressure or during coughing; and on press- ing the part, a small tumour appeared at the external ring, which disappeared when the part above was not pressed. The operation was performed, and a portion of the circum- ference of one of the small intestines was found strangulated, but not gangrenous. Although the strangulation had existed for so long a period, and the patient had suffered from hiccough, and ex- treme tenderness of his abdomen, yet he ultimately recovered. The mode of operating in these cases is as follows:—The hair having been removed from the part, and the patient being placed in a convenient position, an oblique incision is to be made, com- mencing at the upper part of the swelling, about midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and symphysis pubis, and terminating a little above the external abdominal ring. This incision should divide the integument and superficial fascia, and expose the tendon of the external oblique muscle, which is to be carefully cut through in the same direction, when the hernial sac will be seen covered by a very thin fascia, which is given off I