TREATMENT OE STRANGULATED HERNIA. 75 the course which the tumour takes, obliquely upwards, and not towards the abdomen immediately behind the abdominal ring. If the attempts at reduction in the posture which I have de- scribed do not prove successful, it has been recommended to sling the patient by his knees, with his head dangling downwards over the shoulders of an assistant. This position, however, does not ! provide for that relaxation of the abdominal muscles which is so desirable, and it is altogether painful to the patient, and renders it difficult for the surgeon to apply proper pressure upon the tumour. From frequent experience of it by my own trials, and by witness- ing those of others, I can affirm that I have never found it answer, where the other method fully and fairly performed has pre- viously failed. The sudden relaxation of the abdominal muscles during a fit of coughing, by taking off pressure from the viscera, together with the ascent of the diaphragm in the act of coughing, will sometimes assist in its reduction. A patient was brought into Guy’s Hospital, who, during the attempt to reduce it by my dresser, Mr. Workman, was seized with a violent fit of coughing; the pressure being con- tinued during the paroxysm, he felt the hernia suddenly recede into the abdomen. The intestinal hernia will be found more easy of reduction than the omental. The former goes up suddenly with a gurgling noise; the latter returns gradually, excepting the last remaining portion, which does indeed rapidly slip up from beneath the fingers, but unaccompanied with any noise. If from want of elasticity in the hernia the surgeon is clear that it is merely omental, the force used for reduction may be much greater than it would be safe to employ for the intestinal species. If a fair trial of the plan which I have just mentioned should not prove successful, other means should be resorted to. One of them is venesection, the object of which is, first, by the general languor which it occasions, to produce a relaxation of the strictured part, and next, to prevent the local inflammation from running so high Intestinal hernia more easily reduced. Reduction by venesection.