OF THE OPERATION FOR 9G Termination without an operation. Artificial anus. Case. Danger of arti- ficial anus. passage, occasionally at first, then more frequently, as the artificial anus and wound closed, and she completely recovered. This pa- tient was confined five months after the operation, and delivered of a full grown but dead child, by Mr. Brown, a respectable sur- geon at Rotherhithe. It is extraordinary, that being considerably advanced in her pregnancy at the time of the operation, she did not miscarry. When a patient with strangulated hernia will not submit to the operation necessary for his relief, or if the proper assistance can- not be procured, and gangrene takes place, the hernia sometimes suddenly returns into the cavity of the abdomen, and the patient survives only a few hours. Sometimes the skin and other cover- ings inflame and slough, when the faeces are discharged through the opening thus produced, and the symptoms of strangulation subside, after which an artificial anus is formed, rendering the re- mainder of the patient’s life miserable. Occasionally, however, it happens that the external wound and artificial anus are gradually closed, and the patient entirely re- covers. A case of this kind occurred under the care of my friend, Mr. John Cooper, surgeon, of Wotton Underedge, Gloucestershire. He was requested to attend a poor woman, aged sixty, who was the subject of strangulated crural hernia. When he first saw her, she had been labouring under symptoms of strangulation for a fort- night, and the hernia was evidently in a state of mortification. Thinking, therefore, that there would not be any chance of saving her life by an operation, he only directed that her strength should be supported, and the part poulticed. In a few days the mortified parts began to separate, and the faeces were discharged through the wound. This continued for three months, during which period several inches of one of the small intestines sloughed. After this, a small quantity of faeces began to pass by the natural channel, and in six months the woman had perfectly recovered. The formation of an artificial anus is dangerous, according to its situation in the intestinal canal. If the opening be near to the