DISLOCATIONS OF THE OS HUMERI. 427 bone from again slipping out of its situation, which the excessive relaxation of the muscles would readily permit: hut the cushion should not be so large as to separate the arm from the side. The sling is to be also worn to support the arm. There is still a fourth mode of reducing the dislocation into the axilla, which is applicable to recent dislocations, to delicate females, and to very old, relaxed and emaciated persons, viz.: By the Knee in the Axilla. The patient is seated upon a low chair, the surgeon placing him- self by him, separates the dislocated arm from the side sufficiently to admit his knee into the axilla, and resting his foot upon the side of the chair, he places one hand upon the os humeri, just above the condyles, and the other upon the acromion scapulae ; he then pulls down the arm over the knee, and in this manner reduces the dislocation. Even in persons of powerful muscles, I have known this mode succeed, when the patient remained in the state of intoxication in which he was found when the accident happened. The Ambe has been recommended for the reduction of disloca- tions in the axilla ; and this instrument was, in the last century, im- proved by the addition of a screw for the purpose of rendering its extension more gradual. It may succeed very well in recent cases, and in those persons whose muscles are not very powerful, but when a continued extension must of necessity be used to reduce the bone, as its fixed point of action is upon the ribs of the patient, it produces too much injury to the side, is too painful to be borne long, and is, therefore, an instrument which cannot be recom- mended for general use. Mr. Kirby, surgeon in Dublin, has lately advised an ingenious mode of applying force in dislocations of the shoulder : the scapula being fixed and the bandage applied to the arm, the patient sits upon a mattress which is laid upon the floor, and the assistants, to whose management the extension and counter-extension are con- signed, place themselves at his side, sitting opposite to each other, ' Fourth mode of reduction. The use of the Ambe.