WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 201 In the year 1785, my second year of being at the Hospital, a gentleman came almost breathless to the Hospital; and finding me the only person there, requested that I would immediately accom- pany him. He took me to a house in the Borough; and, leading me up stairs, showed me into a room, where I found a female in her shift only, lying upon the floor, weltering in her blood. I with difficulty raised her, and placed her upon the bed she had just quitted. On examining her, I found four wounds in her throat; one of which was deep and extensive. These I closed by sutures ; after which she was able to speak; and I then asked her what had induced her to commit the act; she made an incoherent reply; but repeated the word stomach two or three times, which induced me to raise her linen, when I was surprised to find her bowels exposed by a wound reaching nearly from the pubes to the ensiform cartilage of the sternum ; for, after cutting her throat with a razor, she had ripped up her belly with it, and let out her bowels, but the intes- tines were still distended with air; and I had a difficulty in return- ing them into the abdomen. They had not received the smallest wound. Dr. Key now came into the room, and I proceeded to sew up this extensive opening ; but she died in nine hours. Mr. Tolman and myself were sent for to see a gentleman who had stabbed himself in several parts of his abdomen, with an old rusty dirk, and had for some time afterwards concealed himself from his family. When found, it was discovered, that a portion of omentum protruded through one of the openings ; this was carefully returned; but notwithstanding the dirk still possessed its point, the intestines were not injured, and he recovered without a bad symptom. The free motions of the intestines upon each other, independent }f the peristaltic motion, is a great preservative in wounds of, and flows upon the abdomen. There is another curious circumstance in wounds into the abdo- men ; which is, that they immediately produce universal coldness md paleness, with nausea and faintness, excepting in the operation Case. Case. Peculiar symptoms.