cm THE CURE or ANEURISMS. 215 popliteal aneurism, as every surgeon has his whim; but the principle established by Mr. Hunter remains the same, and that great surgeon has the undoubted merit of having substituted a simple and beautiful operation for one of very considerable difficulty and danger. I shall proceed to point out to you the several steps of the The operation . . for popliteal operation for tying the femoral artery in cases of popliteal aneurism. aneuriSm Mr. Hunter used to make the incision in the middle of the thigh, descr*bed. but experience has shown that it is better to make it one-third of the space downwards from the ilium to the internal condyle of the os femoris, because the artery is more deeply seated in the middle of the thigh than it is higher up; and there are, besides, many anastomosing vessels in the former situation. There are four steps in this operation: first, an incision through the skin, which lays bare the sartorius muscle; secondly, the division is to be continued along the inner edge of the sartorius, exposing the sheath of the femoral artery; thirdly, the incision through the sheath; and fourthly, the putting of the ligature round the vessel. I now make the incision, about four inches in length—[the learned professor proceeded to perform the operation on the dead subject]—which completely exposes the sartorius muscle; I then separate its inner edge from the parts with which it is in contact; this lays bare the sheath, and I now find the femoral artery and the vein exposed. There is a little septum between the artery and the vein, which you should take care to observe. Introduce the aneurismal needle under the artery, taking care to disturb the parts as little as possible. Separate the cellular membrane to the extent of about an inch; and take care not to include the saphena nerve, which is a small branch of the anterior crural nerve, in the ligature. If the saphena nerve should be taken up, you will ascertain it by the irritability which is immediately excited. Having brought the ligature under the vessel with the aneurismal needle, all that remains is, to tie it with what is called a surgeon’s knot, which does not slip. In this consists the whole operation. If you should have separated the artery from the sheath to any considerable extent, two ligatures will