FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART Ol' T1IE THIGH-BONE. 315 frequently seen in very old persons. Mr. Steel, of Berkhamp- ! stead, an intelligent surgeon, and a most respectable man, gave me the thigh-bone of a person thus altered, whose age was ninety- i three. When the absorption of the neck proceeds faster than the :deposit on its surface, the bone breaks from the slightest causes, land this deposit wears so much the appearance of an united frac- ture, that it might be easily mistaken for it. Before the bone thus 'alters, we sometimes meet with a remarkable buttress shooting up from the shaft of the bone into its head, giving it additional sup- , port to that which it receives from the deposit of bone upon its ex- Iternal surface. But another change is also produced from disease, of which the following is the history, and which directly applies to Ithe subject before us. Old bed-ridden and fat persons (generally females) are often brought into our dissecting-room with some of their bones broken (and more frequently the thigh-bone than any other) in being removed from the grave. If the cervix femoris of such persons be examined, it will be found that the head of the bone is sunk down upon its shaft, and that the neck of the thigh-bone is short- sned, so that its head is in contact with the shaft of the bone, op- posite to the trochanter minor ; and at the part at which the liga- ment is inserted into the neck of the bone, the phosphate of lime s absorbed, and a ligamento-cartilaginous substance occupies its place ; either extending entirely through the neck of the bone, or partially, so that one section exhibits signs of it, and in another it s wanting. The bone, in some cases, is so soft and fragile, both n its trochanter and head, that it will scarcely bear the slightest landling ; and the motion of the thigh-bones in the acetabulum is dmost entirely lost, so that the persons must have had little use in heir lower extremities. During the last winter we had two instances of this alteration in he neck of the bone, and it is an appearance which I have several | imes seen. In examining the body of an old subject, very much loaded with Absorption and deposition.