34 THE DISSECTION Relation of the epigastric artery to the two va- rieties of hernia. Femoral hernia. a protrusion is therefore called a direct inguinal hernia. The opportunity of dissecting this species of rupture but seldom oc- curring, our knowledge of its exact anatomical relations is in some respects imperfect. It is certain, however, that the sac passing forward, carries before it the internal or pubic part of the fascia transversalis; and that then it either pushes in front of it the united tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis, or that tendon gives way, and thus allows the hernia to pass through its substance. In two specimens of this hernia which I have dissected, the protrusion appeared to have passed beneath the united tendon ; and from this circumstance, joined to the fact that the lower part of that tendon is occasionally deficient, I am inclined to think that in most, if not in all of those cases in which it has been stated that the tendon was ruptured, the hernia had in reality passed under the tendon. The rupture subsequently takes its course through the external ring, having the end on the outer side; it then descends into the scrotum. The coverings of the direct hernia are, 1. the skin; 2. the superficial fascia; 3. the external spermatic fascia; 4. occasionally, but seldom, the cre- master muscle; 5. sometimes, yet not constantly, the united ten- don of the internal oblique and transversalis; 6. the fascia trans- versalis. From the account which has been given, it is evident that as the epigastric artery is placed between the two abdominal rings, that is to say, on the iliac side of the external, and on the pubic side of the internal ring, it must happen that this important blood- vessel is situated on the inner side of the mouth of the sac in the oblique hernia, and on the outer side of the mouth of the sac, in the direct hernia. THE DISSECTION OF FEMORAL HERNIA. In order to expose the parts connected with the anatomy of fe- moral hernia, it is necessary to make two superficial incisions,— one commencing at the spine of the pubis and extending about