489 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. death immediately ensues. It is true, that a small filament of the second cervical nerve contributes to the formation of the phrenic, but is in itself insufficient to support respiration under fracture of the third vertebra. The effects which arise from fracture and displacement of the Displacement spine, below the origin of the phrenic nerve, depend upon the below the phre" proximity of the accident to the head. If the lumbar vertebrae Lumbar verte_ be displaced, the lower extremities are rendered so completely hr®, insensible, that no injury inflicted upon them can be perceived by the patient. Pinching, burning with caustic, or the application of a blister, are alike unfelt. The power of volition is completely destroyed, not the smallest influence over the muscles remaining. The sphincter ani loses its power of resistance to the peristaltic motion of the intestines, and the faeces pass off involuntarily. The bladder is no longer able to contract, and the urine is retained until drawn off by a catheter; and yet the involuntary powers of the limbs remain nearly the same as before. The circulation pro- ceeds, although perhaps somewhat more languidly, but sufficiently to preserve their heat; and local inflammation can be excited in them. A blister applied upon the inner part of the thigh or leg, of which the patient is wholly unconscious, will still inflame, vesicate, and heal; shewing that the involuntary functions may proceed in parts which are cut off from their connection with the brain and spinal marrow *. The penis, under these circumstances, is generally erect. Patients die from this injury at various periods, according to the degree of displacement of the vertebrae. In general, in fractures of the lumbar vertebrae, the patient dies within the space of a month or six weeks after the injury; and usually for some time before death, the urine passes off involuntarily, from extreme debility. I remember a patient of Mr. Birch, in St. Tho- mas’s Hospital, who lived more than two years after this accident, and then died of gangrene of the nates. * I have always thought, that although sensation and volition depend upon the brain, the spinal marrow, and the nerves, yet the involuntary functions depend principally upon the nerves.