392 OF REMOVING STONES FROM THE BLADDER Instrument for extracting small stones. The instrument which I first had made for the purpose of removing these calculi, was merely a common pair of forceps, made of the size of a sound, and similarly curved; but Mr. Weiss, surgeons’ instrument maker, in the Strand, showed me a pair of bullet forceps, which he thought would, with a little alteration, better answer the purpose I had in view. He removed two of the blades of these forceps (for there were four), and gave them the form of the instrument which I had constructed ; the blades of this instrument could be opened whilst in the bladder, by means of a stilette, so as to grasp and confine the stone; it gave but little pain on its introduction, but when opened to its greatest extent, and stones were admitted between its blades, their removal was painful, more particularly at the glans penis, which appears to be the portion of the urethra furnishing the greatest resistance to their removal. I shall now proceed to detail the circumstances of the first case, as they have been related by the patient himself. Case, as related by the Rev. Mr. Balien. The Rev. John Bullen, of Barnwell, near Cambridge, aged sixty- four, of a spare habit of body, and of a sanguine temperament, having enjoyed an uninterrupted state of good health, capable of partaking largely of the amusement of hunting, and living always with great moderation, was attacked, in May, 1818, with symptoms, of which he gives the following account: “ I was suddenly seized with a frequent inclination to pass my water, and an uneasy sensation along the course of the urethra, which continued with greater or less violence for about a fortnight, when I was surprised by the appearance of a small round white stone at the orifice of the passage. The escape of this small calculus, which was attended with scarcely any pain, failed to produce any beneficial effect on my former symptoms, which continued unabated, both as to the degree of irritation, and the frequency of making water. In this state I remained till June following, during which