OF THE after-treatment. 389 and adults in about a month: sometimes both have the wound healed within a shorter period. I have known two evils arise from the operation; one, a loss of Evils following 1 ... the operation. 1 the power of the retention of urine, when the patient is obliged to wear a yoke, or jugum; the other, an interruption to the passage of the semen, from some injury done to the veru montanum, where I the united ducts of the vesiculee seminales and vasa deferentia terminate. I know a gentleman, who has undergone this operation, has Case, pain in coitu, but does not pass any semen, although he experiences the orgasm. The patient’s digestion and state of urine require to be attended to after the operation, to prevent a return of the disease. Mr. Key, surgeon of Guy’s Hospital, performs the operation of ' lithotomy in a different manner from that usually adopted. The points in which it differs from that commonly performed consist in the employment of a staff, nearly straight, and a scalpel-formed knife, which serves both for the external incision and for the division of the prostate gland, thus obviating the necessity for a change of instruments. The staff is slightly curved for about an inch from its extremity, to enable it to pass more easily over the prostate gland, and the knife is about twice the length of a common scalpel. The mode of performing the operation is as follows : the patient being secured, and the staff introduced into the bladder, an assistant is to hold the handle of the instrument inclined somewhat toward the operator, in order to keep its extremity projecting some way into the base of the bladder. The staff having been fairly laid open by the usual free external incision, and the point of the knife being steadily pressed against the groove, the operator takes the handle of the staff in his left hand, and lowers it till he feels his hand checked by the ligament of the pubic arch. In this movement of the staff, the prostate is raised from the rectum, the ligament of the arch acting the part of a fulcrum, and the staff that of a lever, by which the gut is put out of danger of being wounded. The groove of the staff and the edge of the knife are then to be turned,