TREATMENT OF STRANGULATED HERNIA. 77 has long been discontinued in the hospitals of the Borough, and in the private practice of their surgeons. The tobacco clyster, which is by far the most convenient, is made by infusing a drachm of tobacco in sixteen ounces of boiling water for ten minutes, after which it is fit for use. But as the ■ effect of this potent remedy varies very much in different constitu- I tions, and perhaps according to the quality of the tobacco, it is | best to inject only half that quantity at first, and the remainder half an hour afterwards, if the portion has not proved sufficient. To those who have commonly heard of two drachms being thrown up at a time without bad consequences, this may appear an useless precaution, but instructed by personal observation, I can venture to assert, that whoever practises this often will meet with effects which will lead him to repent his rashness. I once saw a man with whom the tobacco clyster had been used in the quantity of two drachms, without a reduction of the tumour, who about half an hour afterwards was put upon a table to have the operation for hernia performed ; when his pulse was found so i low, his countenance so depressed, and his body covered with cold sweats, that he was ordered back to bed, and on carrying him thither, he expired. A girl who laboured under strangulated hernia, and who was sent to Guy’s Hospital by Mr. Turnbull, surgeon, had a single drachm of the tobacco in infusion injected. It produced most vio- i lent pain of the abdomen, with vomiting, in which was thrown up a quantity of matter which smelt strongly of tobacco, and she died in thirty-five minutes after the clyster had been administered, and most evidently from its effects. These are my reasons for advising the above cautious manner of using this remedy; but at the same time it should be observed, that there are some persons on whom even the quantity of two drachms produces little effect. When the tobacco acts in the manner to be desired, it produces extreme languor, a weak and quick pulse, a cold sweat, and such universal relaxation, that the patient has not the power to exert Mode of admi- nistration. Danger of the tobacco clyster. Effects of the tobacco clyster.