289 PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. that after ten or twelve minutes of gradual extension, the reduction of the bone was most readily and admirably accomplished. Preparatory to commencing the operation wre took thirty ounces of blood from the arm ad deliquium, and afterwards, while fixing the pulleys, &c., we gave four grains of tartarized antimony at intervals to produce nausea. Immediately after the operation, we gave one grain of opium, applied sedative lotions to the parts, and proceeding carefully for about a fortnight, the patient was en- abled to move upon crutches, and shortly after went home per- fectly well. The dislocation into the ischiatic notch has been as far as I Incorrect de- . . . scription by know, in every author who has written on the subject, incorrectly authors. j described ; for it has been stated, that the limb was lengthened in this accident, and I need scarcely mention the mistakes in practice which have originated in so erroneous an opinion; one instance however of such an error I must here give. A gentleman wrote to me from the country in these words:—“ I have a case under my care of injury of the hip, and I should suppose it a dislocation into the ischiatic notch, but that the limb is shorter, instead of being longer as authors state it to be.” Into this error those authors must have fallen from having examined a pelvis separated from the skeleton, and observed that the ischiatic notch was below the level { of the acetabulum when the pelvis was horizontal, although it is above the acetabulum in the natural oblique position of the pelvis, at least as regards the horizontal axis of the two cavities. It is to be remembered, that there is no such accident as a disloca- tion of the hip downwards and backwards. DISLOCATION ON THE PUBES. This dislocation is more easy of detection than any other of the Cause. 'high. It happens when a person, while walking, puts his foot nto some unexpected hollow in the ground ; and his body at the noment being bent backwards, the head of the bone is thrown orwards upon the os pubis. A gentleman who had met with this in bis own person, informed me that it happened VOL. II. u