473 DISLOCATIONS OF THE FINGERS AND TOES. A boy of twelve years of age was brought into Guy’s Hospital, Case, who, by the bursting of a gun, had his thumb and all the fingers excepting the fore finger blown to pieces; the whole hand was exceedingly shattered, and the metacarpal bones were separated from the carpus. Upon examination of the hand, I found that the tendon of the fore finger was uninjured, so that its use remained perfect; and as the integuments could be still saved, so as to cover its metacarpal bone, I dissected out the trapezium (the thumb had been entirely carried away by the concussion) and the metacarpal bones of all the fingers, excepting that of the fore finger, which was afterwards of the greatest use to him. I kept him for some time at the hospital, to shew to the students the restorative powers of nature, and the utility of this finger saved out of the wreck of his hand; he used it as a hook with the greatest facility. FRACTURE OF THE HEAD OF THE METACARPAL BONE. The extremity of the metacarpal bone towards the fingers, Fracture, which is called its head, is sometimes broken off; which produces the appearance of dislocation of the finger, as the head of the bone sinks towards the palm of the hand. In the treatment of this case, a large ball is to be grasped in the hand, which should be bound over by a roller; and thus the depressed extremity of the bone is raised to its natural situation. DISLOCATIONS OF THE FINGERS AND TOES. The phalanges of the fingers and toes are united by capsular liga- Structure, ments to the metacarpal and metatarsal bones, and to each other; and their union is further strengthened by lateral ligaments, pro- ceeding from one side of the phalanx to the other. Posteriorly, they are defended by the tendon of the extensor muscle of the fingers ; and anteriorly, by the thecae and flexor tendons. Dislo- cation of the phalanges, therefore, is but rare: but when this acci- dent does occur, it more frequently happens between the first and second phalanges than between the second and third.