403 OF CALCULI IN THE THOSTATE GLAND. difficulty in passing the catheter. As the instrument entered the bladder through the prostate gland, it grated over a stone. I passed my finger per rectum, and felt two or three calculi grating against each other, and I endeavoured to persuade him to let me extract them, but he would not consent. He died of diseased kidneys, and I have his prostate gland, containing the calculi, in the collection at St. Thomas’s Hospital. The second case was that of General B , whom I cut for the Case. stone in his bladder: I removed many calculi, some of which were prostatic and some urinary. The surgeon, who had attended the General previously, had observed that a bougie, which he had introduced into the bladder, was marked by the calculi. The patient recovered. I operated on a patient of Mr. Forbes, surgeon, at Camberwell, Case, and removed an immense number of prostatic calculi. These calculi had produced not only painful feelings in the perineum, but a degree of irritation, which kept the patient in continued mental excitement, bordering upon insanity. I introduced a staff into the bladder through the urethra, and opened the perineum as far as the prostate, cutting into the urethra, as in the operation for lithotomy; I then made an incision into the left lateral lobe, and extracted many calculi from a bag formed in it. The patient bore the operation well, hut did not perfectly recover; a fistulous opening remained, and his symptoms became as distressing as before. On examining by the fistulous opening, I could distinctly feel more calculi, although I could not discover them by introducing my finger per rectum. The sufferings of the patient induced me, about six months after the first operation, to perform a second, which I accomplished by passing a director into the fistulous opening, and then enlarging this opening by a bistory; I extracted about half as many calculi as in the first operation. The patient soon recovered from the effects of this second operation, and the wound closed entirely; but, after a short time, his sufferings became as dreadful as before, and, believing that he could not procure any relief, he destroyed himself six months after the second operation. 2d2