ON FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. 171 called to a fracture, with depression, which is exposed to view, 1 generally use an elevator, and very rarely the trephine. I put this instrument under the bone, raise it up, and if it has been comminuted, remove the small portions of bone. If, however, one bone is wedged within the other, I apply the trephine for raising the depressed portion of bone. The elevation of the bone is never followed by any mischief; but if you do not raise it, and inflam- mation follows, it will be too late to attempt to save the life of the patient. I shall conclude, gentlemen, by mentioning two other circum- stances : but they are two circumstances to which, if there be any thing valuable in the lecture, I wish most particularly to call your attention. The first is this:—it sometimes happens, in fracture of the skull, Epilepsy attended with depression, that a small spicular portion of bone will and depression project into the brain, so as to produce and support epileptic symptoms. A negro, who was a patient of Mr. Birch, had fracture from a blow on the head, and a portion of bone was depressed. Shortly after he was seized with epileptic fits, which continued for many years. When he was admitted into the hospital, it was found that there was still a portion of the depressed bone remaining, and the trephine was applied to it. When the circular piece of bone was completely sawed round by the trephine, so that it could be moved from side to side, Mr. Birch found a difficulty in raising it; he put the elevator under it, but still it adhered to something within. At last he took a pair of forceps, and, by using more force, he extracted a little spur or thorn, which had proceeded from the inner side of the skull through the dura mater into the substance of the brain, and was the cause of the epileptic fits. After its removal, he had but one more fit, and completely recovered. The other circumstance which I shall mention is one which, whether we regard it in a physiological or surgical point of view, is, perhaps, one of the most extraordinary that ever occurred; and, as connected with surgery and physiology, 1 am surprised it has