TREATMENT AFTER THE OPERATION. 100 Necessity of the recumbent po- sition. Case. Medicines. Purgatives. Sutures re- moved. sition, and placed with his shoulders a little elevated, and the thigh, on the same side as the wound, moderately flexed towards the abdomen. As it is perfectly necessary that the patient should keep the re- cumbent position during the cure, a folded sheet must be placed under him, into which he should discharge his stools, otherwise, should he rise to use the night-chair, much mischief may arise from the effort. Mr. Cline had operated upon a patient for strangulated hernia; and some hours after the operation the patient got out of bed to use the night-chair, and from the exertions he made in getting up and in passing his motion, the intestine, which had been reduced, again descended into the sac : Mr. Cline again reduced the intestine, and gave strict orders for the man to keep the recumbent position, and the patient ultimately did well. Usually, if the patient be left to himself, he will have some na- tural stools in a few hours after the operation; but, if several hours elapse without an evacuation, either castor oil or sulphate of magnesia should be given, or a purgative enema, containing colo- cynth, or castor oil, should be thrown up, and the abdomen should be fomented with spirituous fomentation, which will assist the ac- tion of the bowels, and afford much comfort to the patient. As the safety of the patient depends much upon procuring evacuations from the bowels, the exhibition of opium soon after the operation should, if possible, be avoided; but if the irritability of the stomach continue, or if the patient have a troublesome cough, it should be administered in conjunction with calomel. It is not only necessary to procure evacuations from the bowels soon after the operation, but it is extremely desirable to keep up a free action upon them for several days following; as I have fre- quently known patients die in a few days after the operation with constipation and peritoneal inflammation, although they had passed several stools within twenty-four hours after the strangulation had been relieved. Should the patient go on well, the wound should be dressed on