24 ON INFLAMMATION. Cartilage. Bones. Membranes. Healthy in- flammation. Unhealthy. Acute or Chronic. Cartilage in joints ulcerates from inflammation, and often becomes entirely destroyed. The bones, like other parts of the body, are subject to inflamma- tion ; and when fractured, it is by this process that their union is effected. Suppuration, ulceration, and mortification, or the death of the bone, also attack this structure; thus you see that, like other parts of the body, it is subject to the different processes of inflammation. Exhalent membranes, when inflamed, are remarkably disposed to pass into the adhesive inflammation; whilst mucous membranes, on the contrary, generally go into the suppurative state. Mr. Hunter made several experiments to confirm these facts, which have been verified by later physiologists. Inflammation may be of the healthy or unhealthy kind. No wound can be restored without the former; even the small puncture made in bleeding would inevitably destroy life, were it not for this salutary principle ; a slight inflammatory action throws out upon the edges of the wound adhesive lymph, by which they become permanently united. When a ligature is put upon a large artery, unless inflammation supervened, no good effect would be produced. The first thing nature does in this case is, to form a clot of blood at that part of the vessel where it has been tied ; inflammation super- venes, adhesive matter is thrown out, by which the internal coats of the artery become firmly glued together, and hemorrhage prevented. If the constitution be in an unhealthy condition, this process will not be effected; so that when the ligature comes off, the person may die of hemorrhage. Inflammation in a healthy constitution, is the vis medicatrix NATURjE, established for the purpose of restora- tion ; but the inflammation, without any obvious cause, is generally of the unhealthy kind, and arises from irritability of the constitu- tion, and an enfeebled state of the affected part. Inflammation is either acute or chronic. The first passes through its stages with rapidity, while the latter is exceedingly slow in its progress. The chronic is either the result of acute inflammation, or is owing to a peculiar state of the constitution; as heat, which