305 OF THE TRUE SCIRRHUS OF TIIF. TESTICLE. hitherto employed have been equally inefficacious. Leeches and evaporating lotions, upon general principles, retard the progress of the disease, but nothing has any specific power in changing the action of the part; when ulcerated, solutions of alum, of sulphate of zinc and of copper, and dilute nitric and sulphuric acids are of some use. All, then, that is left to the surgeon is to improve the constitution first, next to effect the removal of the disease by the knife; and when this has been done, to give such medicines, and rules of living, as shall, by improving and preserving the health, change the constitution, and lessen the disposition to the return of this disease. The removal of this disease by operation is very often unsuccessful, Operation uncertain. as the disease is very apt to return in the part, or in some distant organ of the body, if a constitutional treatment is not previously and even afterwards pursued. I removed from a patient of Mr. Sterry’s, in Bermondsey, a fungous ulcer from the shoulder, and the disease soon afterwards shewed itself in the eye, of which the patient died. I removed, from a Mr. Bernard, an eye affected with this disease, and in less than twelve months the disease reappeared in a very large swelling above the groin. In the removal of this disease in the testicle, the complaint frequently returns in the loins and in the spermatic cord. It is quite necessary that the operation should be performed in an early state of the disease. If therefore, a patient applies with this disease, and I put him under a course of mercury, and treat him as I shall describe I do a simple chronic inflammation of the testicle, and if it do not yield, I advise its removal; for if the spermatic cord in the least participates in the disease, the operation does not succeed: so soon as the wound be healed, and sooner if the wound be slow to heal, I give constitutional remedies to improve the general health, and to lessen the disposition to a return of the disease. OF THE TItUF. SCIRRHUS OF THE TESTICLE. This is an extremely rare disease ; that which I have previously A very rare described being the most frequent;—indeed, for a length of time I dise t’w