OF LACERATED WOUNDS. 174 By the surgeon’s imprudence. By state of constitution. Adhesion not always desirable. Nacvi materni. Character. discharge of saliva from the wound, which was a very long time in healing, on account of the parotid duct having been cut across. Union by adhesion is often frustrated by the surgeon’s im- patience ; he is anxious to see if union be effected or not, and most absurdly and mischievously raises the dressings, disturbing, and often breaking, the adhesions, and thus rendering the process of granulation necessary, when it might have been avoided. The adhesive inflammation is often prevented by the state of the constitution ; if the patient be much out of health, or if he be ex- tremely irritable, the inflammation will proceed beyond the bounds of adhesion, and suppuration will take place. In such persons, evaporating lotions to the wound, and opium internally, are the means of arresting the mischief which will otherwise ensue. It is not always an object to endeavour to produce adhesion; when there is much loss of substance, and the parts must be forcibly drawn together, much additional pain and irritation are occasioned by the attempt at adhesive union, and this is more especially the case in children, when the skin cannot well bear the application of the adhesive plaister. Therefore, when I remove those marks which are called naevi materni *, I do not attempt to bring the edges of the wound together ; but only, after the bleed- ing has ceased, apply lint for twenty-four hours, and then a poul- . tice to the part by which much pain and irritation are avoided. The breast I often dress in the same manner, after the removal of tumours connected with much disease of the integument. I OF LACERATED WOUNDS. These wounds bleed much less than the incised, for a reason which will be described when we speak of wounds of arteries; * NiEvus Maternus.—A mother’s mark, which is congenital, and is said to he produced by the longing of the mother for particular things, or her aversion to them. Hence these marks resemble mulberries, strawber- ries, &c., &c.