45 COUNTER-IRRITATION IN INFLAMMATION. peared to be enlarged, and had formed a ganglion partially resting on the extremity of the bone; this had produced such a degree of irritation, that no part of the stump could be touched without exciting a kind of electric, shock; in fact, the woman appeared very much to resemble a sensitive plant. How the nerves become longer than the bones in these cases, does not admit of easy explanation. LECTURE VI. COUNTER-IRRITATION IN INFLAMMATION. In the acute, as has already been explained to you, our object is to Local treat- . . . . . ' . mentofchronic diminish vascular action; but in the chronic we endeavour to in- inflammation. crease it. Thus, in long-continued discharges arising from relax- ation, we employ stimulating lotions, for the purpose of restoring to the vessels their healthy power of contraction. Agaip, in sluggish, indolent ulcers, it is absolutely necessary to excite action; for which purpose we employ washes, either composed of calomel and lime water, or the hydr. oxymur, and lime water; the cupri sulphas is also an admirable remedy in these indolent sores. Gonorrhoea, as I have already shown to you, gives us an excellent illustration of the difference between acute inflammation and chronic, and the principles upon which your opposite treatment must be founded to insure a successful result. At first you diminish strength and action, and then stimulate, for the purpose of restoring them. Whenever you apply stimulating lotions to indolent ulcers, you Mode of apply- should always cover the parts with oiled silk; to prevent evapora- loPon"!'^1'00 tion, by which cold would be produced, and the design with which it was applied frustrated. Your object here is to obtain heat and action; as oiled silk obstructs evaporation, it very materially con- tributes to create these: and, as the perspiration as well as the vapour from lotions condenses upon the inner surface of the oiled silk, it of course succeeds in keeping the part moist; and this is a t