245 ON HYDROCELE. the tunica vaginalis, in consequence of its extreme thickness, will remain in large folds. The tunica vaginalis has, in a few instances, been found ossified. Mr. Warner, formerly surgeon at Guy’s, met with an example of this. There is a similar preparation in the museum at the other hospital, which any of you might see by applying to Mr. Stocker. Mr. Beaver, formerly a student here, accidentally discovered a case of it in our dissecting-room. Then, with regard to the contents of hydrocele, it is usually Appearance of yellow serum. But sometimes small cartilaginous bodies are found the Huk1’ in the fluid; when these are seen, they prove that the hydrocele had existed for a very long time, and are always proof of its age. There is another variety which I ought to mention here; it has Congenital been called the congenital hudrocele, in consequence of a commu- hydrocele nication having from birth existed between the tunica vaginalis and eating with the cavity of the abdomen. When the parts are natural and perfect, there is no opening leading from one to the other, as you know; but occasionally the natural closure does not take place, and then a fluid may descend from the abdomen, and collect in the tunica vaginalis. In this manner, sometimes from ascites, the scrotum will become greatly distended; and here, in such cases, is the best situation for tapping. The hydrocele of which I am now speaking may be readily discovered from any other, in consequence of your being enabled, with ease, to return the water into the cavity of the abdomen: this you can effect by placing the person upon his back, and then elevating the scrotum. The first case of this variety of hydrocele that I saw was sent to Case, me by Mr. Dobson, of Harrow. The patient being a very young- person, I was apprehensive of peritoneal inflammation, if I injected ; it occurred to me that I might succeed in shutting up the commu- nication with the abdomen by means of a common truss, when I might afterwards safely tap and inject for the radical cure. A truss was accordingly applied over the ring, and ordered to be worn for two years; at the end of one year Mr. Dobson wrote to me to say that the lad was quite cured. Now this I did not expect.