ON WOUNDS or THE BItAIN. 184 Case. Remarks. afterwards. If you read the works of Mr. Pott on the injuries of the head, you will find the circumstance mentioned; and in the work of Mr. Dease, of Dublin, (who has published an excellent treatise on the subject) it is distinctly stated, that inflammation of the brain is occasionally postponed to three or four weeks after the accident occurs, and even then, the patient is not always safe. I will give you a case relating to this subject:—Dr. Babington and myself were sent for to see a person, a clerk to the firm of Whitbread and Co., who, whilst riding on horseback, and being a short-sighted man, and riding fast, struck himself violently against the bough of a tree which was overhanging the road, and was brought to the ground by the force of the blow. He was taken to Croydon, where Dr. Babington and myself visited him. We found that he had been struck on the os frontis, just above the frontal sinuses, where there wras a depression; and this was the first case in which I witnessed emphysema of the forehead produced by blowing the nose. We took all possible care of the case, bled him, regulated his diet, &c., till the inflammation had subsided. He came to town three weeks after the accident, when he asked whether he might go to Rochester, to spend a little time wdth some j friends, who were anxious for him to come. We told him that he might, if he would pay attention to himself, keep his bowels open, and regulate his diet. After the lapse of a week he became extremely ill, inflammation of the brain came on, and he died. On inquiry, we found that he had neglected the directions given him, and allowed his bowels to get costive. It is always a very serious case when there is a depression on the forehead after an accident, and I will mention to you an instance of this kind, which will show you the necessity of enjoining on a patient with this injury strict attention to his mode of living. A man who had received a wound in the forehead from a pistol- shot came to this hospital: the wound healed kindly, but the depression remained. Whenever this man indulged in the use of Case.