DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANCLE-JOINT. 381 the limb has been reduced ; the bones should be at once returned into their places, and the parts should be united by the adhesive inflammation; but rather than amputate the limb, if the above circumstances were present, I should certainly saw off" the ends of \ the bones. i I shall now proceed to state the cases which I have myself had an opportunity of witnessing, and some which have been furnished by my friends, and shall leave the reader to judge of the propriety , of the advice I have given. COMPOUND DISLOCATION OF THE TIBIA INWARDS. Mr. Charles Averill, dresser to Mr. Forster, Surgeon of Guy’s Case. Hospital, had the kindness to send me the following particulars of a case, the progress of which I often witnessed with pleasure. John Williams, sailor, aged thirty-eight, a very robust man, was brought into Guy’s Hospital, under the care of Mr. Forster, Au- gust 9th, 1819, at four o’clock in the morning, with a compound dislocation of the right ancle inwards, and considerable injury to the left, occasioned by his falling from a height of about twenty- six feet, in endeavouring to escape from the Borough Compter in which he was imprisoned. On examining the injured part, I found the tibia protruding three inches through a large transverse wound of four inches in extent, and resting on the inner side of the os calcis; the cartilaginous surface of the astragalus could be readily felt on passing my finger into the wound; the fibula was broken. I first sawed off the whole of the cartilaginous end of the tibia, when the bone was easily replaced; the edges of the wound were then brought as much in contact as possible ; lint dipped in blood was applied, and over it straps of adhesive plaster ; the foot and leg were wrapped in cloths wet with a lotion of acetate of lead, and the limb was laid on its side. He complained of great pain in the left leg, which was very much swollen all around the ancle; ten leeches were applied to it, and afterwards the liquor plumbi