OF CONGENITAL HERNIA. 117 upon a close inspection, gives a transparent appearance to the | swelling. To distinguish these joint diseases, the contents of the i hernia should be returned into the cavity of the abdomen whilst the patient is in a recumbent posture; after this, a moderate pres- i sure is to be made against the abdominal ring, with the finger, so as to prevent the descent of the intestine or omentum ; if the pa- tient then assume the erect position, the water will escape into the tunica vaginalis, but the intestine or omentum will be felt pressing against the finger above. Sometimes the testicle does not descend to the bottom of the scrotum, and then, if a congenital hernia form, the tunica vaginalis becomes elongated, and reaches considerably below the situation of the testicle. In the congenital form of hernia, also, the cord is occasionally divided, the artery and vein being on one side, and the vas de- ferens taking its course on the other side. When the congenital hernia is reducible, it requires the use of a truss, as the common inguinal hernia, provided that the testicle has completely descended into the scrotum, or does not rest at the groin. For the first three months, perhaps a pad and bandage may be sufficient to prevent the descent of the hernia ; but after i this period a truss with a spring may be employed with safety, or i even at a younger period if necessary. If the testicle be seated in the groin, a truss cannot be worn without risk of injuring the gland, and it is better to allow of such a protrusion as will assist the complete descent of the testicle, be- fore any truss or other means of suppressing the hernia be resort- ed to. A young man who now holds a situation of importance, and who is the father of several children, was brought to me formerly by his father, on account of his having a congenital hernia; but be- cause the descent of the testicle on the same side was incomplete, I directed that the protrusion should not be retarded. The testicle | afterwards descended into the scrotum, a truss w'as then applied for the hernia, and the disease was ultimately subdued. Division of the cord. Reducible. Testicle in the groin. Case.