338 DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. Case. Refrigerant lo- tion. tage of which is, that it relaxes the extensor muscles on the thigh in the greatest possible degree; the surgeon then presses down that edge of the patella which is most remote from the joint, be it one luxation or the other; and this pressure raises the inner edge of the bone over the condyle of the os femoris, and it is immediately drawn, by the action of the muscles, into its natural situation. My friend, Mr. George Young, informed me, that he was called to a case of dislocation of the patella outwards, in which the re- duction was very difficult. The patient was a female, who, by a fall in walking, had the patella drawn over the external condyle of the os femoris, where it remained. He employed pressure upon the edge of the patella, most perseveringly, without being able to succeed, but at last reduced it in the following manner:—He placed the patient’s ancle upon his shoulder, and thus most com- pletely extended the limb and obtained a fixed point of resistance at the knee; then grasping the patella with the fingers of his right hand, he pressed the outer edge of the patella with the ball of his left thumb, and pushed it into its place. When the reduction of this bone has been effected, an evapo- rating lotion of spirits of wine and wrater is to be applied; in two or three days the limb may be bandaged, and it is soon restored to its natural uses, although somewhat wTeaker than before. I was informed, by Mr. Welling, formerly surgeon at Hastings, that he was called to a case in which the patella was dislocated upon its edge. The nature of the accident was very obvious, as the edge of the bone forced up the integuments to a considerable height between the condyles on the fore part of the joint. Mr. Welling reduced the dislocation, but with considerable difficulty, by pressing the edges of the bone in opposite directions. When the bone is dislocated from relaxation, the patella is drawn upon the external condyle of the os femoris by very slight acci- dents, or sudden action of the muscles. My neighbour, Mr. Hut- chinson, a very intelligent surgeon, informs me he has very frequently seen this accident, and that the tendency to it has arisen, in a large