106 ON ULCEUS. Languid granulations. Ung. hyd. nit. purpose of keeping- down the granulations which are nearest the edge of the sore. In this way we promote the healing of the sore, forming a little circle by the caustic from day to day until we arrive at the centre. Adhesive plaster is used with the same intention, viz. that of keeping down the granulations. The common adhesive plaster is, however, too stimulating for this purpose; a plaster, composed of equal parts of the emplastrum thuris compositum, and the emplas- trum saponis, is a much better plaster to promote the healing of ulcers than the common adhesive plaster. This is a point deserving attention ; because, if the application be of so stimulating a nature as to excite inflammation and excoriate the skin, we are often under the necessity of leaving off the adhesive plaster. It sometimes happens, that the action is so great as to oblige us to apply a sheet of lead to the surface of the sore; when this is necessary, you may apply a piece of lint covered with the ceratum cetacei, over these a piece of sheet lead, and round the whole a roller should be passed of about five yards in length. These are the various modes of treatment in this state of the sore. The next circumstance to which we shall advert, as giving rise to difficulty in the treatment of ulcers, is a languid state of the sore, in which its action is too slight. What is the character of such a sore ? You may know that a sore is in this state, by the glossy and semi-transparent appearance of the granulations; instead of the florid hue which characterizes granulations in their healthy state, a considerable portion of them is bloodless. The fact is, that the vessels near the surrounding parts have not sufficient power to throw the blood to the extremities of the granulations. To remove this glossy appearance, and produce a healthy 6tate of the sore, the application most commonly used is the unguentum hydrargyri nitrico-oxidi. This is a strong stimulating application, which occasions a determination of blood to the part, and produces a florid redness in the granulations, instead of the semi-transparent appearance which they assume in the languid state of the sore. It produces, however, a white appearance in the edge of the sore,