FRACTURES OF THE UPPER PART OF THE THIGH-BONE. 333 more violent than those which usually arise from fractured femur, she was placed under the care of the physician, Dr. Bright, at whose request I examined the limb. Her right leg, which was the one injured, was considerably everted, and appeared to be about half an inch longer than the sound limb. It admitted of passive motion in all directions, but in abduction gave her considerable pain. She had perfect command over all the muscles except the 1 rotators inwards. The fact that she had walked both before and i since her admission into the hospital, gave rise to some doubts as , to the existence of a fracture, and the closest examination of the ; trochanter and body of the femur, could not detect the slighest crepitus, or displacement of bone. I repeated the examination of the limb on the following day, but the result was equally un- satisfactory. The fever under which she was labouring, together with general ■ abdominal uneasiness, threatening her life, the limb underwent no further examination. She died on Monday, nine days after the accident. Examination after death. Wishing to ascertain (for I suspected some obscure fracture of the os femoris) the exact nature of the injury, previously to removing the soft parts I moved the limb in every direction, fixing the tro- chanter and head of the bone ; but I could perceive no deviation from the usual state of parts, nor could I distinguish the slightest crepitus under all the variety of movements. I should observe, that there was no tumefaction of the thigh, and therefore the tro- chanter and head of the os femoris were as readily distinguished and exposed to examination as in the most healthy limb. The capsule of the joint being laid bare, a cavity was discovered by the side of the pectineus, leading backwards and downwards, towards the trochanter minor, and containing some pus: it allowed the fingers to pass behind the bone to the greater trochanter. The head of the bone was then dislocated by cutting through the liga- ments, and not till then was a fracture discovered at the root of