DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 449 as not only the brachialis muscle will act in resistance, but the radius resting against the external condyle, will push the os humeri backwards upon the ulna when the arm is bent. DISLOCATION OF THE RADIUS FORWARDS. I This bone is sometimes separated from the ulna at their junction at the coronoid process, and its head is thrown into the hollow above the external condyle of the os humeri, and upon the coronoid process of the ulna. I have seen six examples of this accident: its symptoms are as follow: the fore arm is slightly bent, but cannot be brought to a 1 right angle with the upper, nor can it be completely extended. When it is suddenly bent, the head of the radius strikes against the fore part of the os humeri, and produces so sudden a stop to its motion, as at once to convince the surgeon that one bone strikes against the other. The hand is placed in a prone position, but neither its pronation nor supination can be completely per- formed, although its pronation be nearly complete. If the thumb be carried into the fore and upper part of the elbow-joint, the I head of the radius may be there felt ; and if rotation of the I hand be attempted, the bone will be perceived to roll; this last circumstance, and the sudden stop to the bending of the arm, are the best diagnostic marks of the injury. In the dissection of this case, the head of the radius is found resting in the hollow above the external condyle of the os humeri; i the ulna is in its natural situation. The coronary ligament of the • radius, the oblique ligament, and the fore part of the capsular, as well as a portion of the interosseous ligament, are torn through; I the laceration of the latter ligament allows the separation of the two bones; the biceps muscle is shortened : and those who have • not seen an example of this injury, will do well to consult the i bones of the arm in the position I have now described them. The cause of this accident is a fall upon the hand when the arm is extended; the radius receiving the weight of the body, is forced Symptoms of this accident. Dissection. Cause of this accident. VOL. II. G G