ACUTE AND CHRONIC ABSCESS. 83 of matter may be felt to fluctuate, it is advisable to make a free opening', both as it regards the constitution and the part. When- ever the matter can be felt close to bone, it will be right to open it, excepting in cases where it may occur from severe courses of mercury, between the cranium and pericranium. Mercury will inflame the periosteum (and the pericranium is a part of the periosteum) to a greater degree than the venereal disease itself; and in those cases where a fluid exists between the pericranium and bone, unattended with any blush, do not open it; it will be removed by purging, and giving bountifully the decoction of sarsaparilla. But when matter is formed, and there is a blush, it will not be absorbed ; an opening must be made, exfoliation will often take place; but when there is no blush, beware of opening the tumour. Now, gentlemen, the treatment of chronic abscesses will be very Treatment of different from those of the acute kind. In the last case, you wish c, onic abscesses. to diminish the state of excitement in the constitution; and in the former you do all you can to give it additional powers, by allowing generous diet, and giving the patient ammonia and bark; the ammonia is the medicine on which the principal reliance is to be placed. You know that of late, bark has not been much used; but people are apt to run into extremes—bark assists the suppurative process; generous diet must be allowed, in order to increase the action of the parts, by giving tone to the constitution. Stimulant poultices should be applied to the part, and the best I know is the muriate of soda (common salt) and water, a meat-spoouful of the salt to a pint of water, and the poultice should be wetted with this ; yeast and oatmeal, vinegar and flour, each of these expedite the process of suppuration. In indolent cases, it is customary to employ stimulant plasters, and the best I know is the empl. galb. comp.; it is stimulating, and consequently excites the action of the part. The emplast. ammon. cum hydrarg., and the emplast. thuris comp, are also used; they, however, are more tranquillizing, and, in general, excite slight perspiration over the part, similar in its Openin°- of operation to the soap cerate, which is also of use. chronic ab- These, then, gentlemen, are the remedies, local and constitu- the fascia lata. g 2