INAUGURAL ADDRESS. 18 one man and the devotion of one mind to its accomplishment. Some time before Jenner turned his attention to the subject, the learned and accomplished Dr Mead —the first London physician of his day—wrote of the utter hopelessness of the very idea of battling with and vanquishing such a formidable enemy to human life and happiness as small-pox. He speaks of the possibility of a " specific antidote being found against the contagious poison" of small-pox—that is, an antidote " by which it may be so thoroughly destroyed, that though it had been received into the body, it may not produce the disease," as an idea as wild and chimerical as that of alchemy; and one, in his opinion, outraging " the principles and elements of things that are so certain and so Avell estabbshed by the permanent laws of nature."1 These disheartening opinions of Dr Mead regarding the hopelessness of ever gaining a prophylactic for small-pox, were published in 1747. Before, however, fifty years had elapsed, Jenner had both discovered, and successfully adapted to practice, the great prophylactic measure that has rendered his name imperishable in the annals of the human race. And thus the happy results of Jenner's labours,—besides their own intrinsic and inestimable worth,—descend to us stamped with a precious lesson from him of hope and perseverance under alleged impossibilities; for these results preach loudly to the profession in all time to come, that we should never permit any apparent improbabilities to prevent us from going always onwards in earnest search for possible means of conquering and curing diseases even of the most formidable and fatal kind. In conclusion, let me add one word more. I have hitherto spoken of asso- ciations of the profession, like that of the Medico-Oiirurgical Society, as principally calculated to advance medical observation amongst us, and to pro- mote the general extension of medical science. There is, however, another high and important advantage belonging to such associations as those formed by this Society,—another benefit flowing from their construction. For such associations are not only destined to spread professional zeal and information among their constituent members; they are destined also to promote pro- fessional goodwill and genuine brotherhood amongst them. They are intended to cultivate the heart, as well as to cultivate the head;—to increase and deepen, our feeling of professional fraternity and kindness, as well as increase and extend our stores of professional acquirements and knowledge. And during the time that I may have the pleasure and the honour of occupying the Chair to which you have elected me, I shall ever endeavour to use my influence hi it, so that while every freedom is given to professional debate, there shall, if possible, be nothing uttered that shall unnecessarily hurt the feelings of any member of the profession, present or absent. And I feel sure that in endeavouring to attain this end I shall ever meet with your hearty concurrence and aid. 1 See his Medical Works, vol. ii. p. 131 (Edit, of 1763). MURRAY AND (ilUH, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH