8 INAUGURAL ADDRESS. Morbid anatomy, histological anatomy, and pathological chemistry, the depart- ments to which I have already adverted, have thus gained for us, during the last fifty years, much new and precious information regarding the actual character and nature of the diseases of the body. That information, however, would have been in a great degree sterile and barren, had physicians, at the same time, not disco- vered means for facilitating the detection of the presence of these diversified mor- bid states in the living body. Medical science has gained these requisite means, by having, within the last twenty or thirty years, immensely extended and improved the whole subject of Physical Diagnosis.—When we contrast medical practice at the present day with what medical practice was half a century ago, in nothing truly will we find it differing more than in the increased use which the modern physician makes in most cases of disease, of the different means of physical diagnosis. By its aid he is enabled, in many diseases, successfully to trace, in the different organs of the yet living patient, the exact pathological anatomy of these organs at the time of his examination. He tries by it, in other words, to discover by physical signs during life, that morbid anatomy of different organs which is revealed by the scalpel of the anatomist after death. For ages the surgeon has enjoyed over the physician greatly superior diagnostic accuracy in the diseases belonging to his special department of the profession ; because he could generally apply to the discrimination of them direct tactile examination, and even visual inspection of the affected part; or, in other words, because he could make complete use of these means of physical diagnosis, in forming his opinion with regard to their nature. Latterly, the surgeon has even increased his already great diagnostic facilities by the use of anaesthetics, and the adoption of the exploring needle. But in some classes of affections, the physician is now, in relation to physical diagnosis, almost on a par with the surgeon. In affections, for example, of the lungs and of the heart, the physician* can trace accurately enough for practical purposes, the various changes that may be taking place in the pathological anatomy of these organs in the living subject, by the ear; or through the medium of auscultation and percussion. Analogous means of physical diagnosis have been, as you are aware, more or less successfully extended to other organs of the body, besides those contained within the chest; as to the throat and uterus. And as the precision of our knowledge of the maladies of these parts has been advanced by physical diagnosis, so also, in a corresponding degree, have the precision and the success of our treatment of them. Much more, however, is probably yet to be expected from an extension of the same important branch of study. For if the subject of pathological anatomy is, as some sup- pose, nearly exhausted, there is still, it must be confessed, great room for the advancement of the physical diagnosis during life of the pathological anatomy of some classes of organs as ascertained after death,—as, for example, that of the organs contained within the abdomen. And it may be that particular measures of physical diagnosis may yet be devised for these and other regions,—even though at the present moment the discovery of such measures, may seem to our minds as unlikely as the discovery of any accurate means of physical diagnosis for diseases