INAUGURAL ADDKESS. 15 Or, with a view of tracing the recent progress of medicine, let us consider for a moment another and very numerous class of ailments, the most afflicting of all that can fall upon man—I mean those included under the general term of in- sanity. Everywhere some fifty or sixty years ago, up to the end of the last cen- tury, and in too many places far, far on in the present century, the unhappy maniac had seldom ought else for his dark lot but chains and a dungeon, star- vation and filth; and little or nothing else for his treatment but stripes and scorn, provocations and contumely. At the commencement of the present cen- tury, the poor lunatic, when once incarcerated in an asylum, seemed utterly and for ever cut off from the friendship and charity of his fellow-mortals ; he was a man buried, as it were, while he was yet alive, a being deemed incapable of human feelings, and almost undeserving of human sympathy. Need I say how changed all this is now; or what the happy results have been since such poor suffer- ers were duly subjected to proper medical and moral management; and were treated as men still possessing the feelings, and impulses, and affections of man. If any one wishes for a test of the modern march and progress of practical medicine, he would find a strong and startling criterion of it in tracing the internal history of any asylum fifty years ago, and contrasting it with what asylums are now. In this rapid survey, let us look for a moment at only one other advancement in practical medicine since the days of Watt—and no doubt the greatest of all. I allude, of course, to the discovery of vaccination. The vast importance of it can only be appreciated when we venture to consi- der for a moment what would at the present day have been the dreadful state of mortality in our own and in other countries from small-pox, if no such discovery had been made. If small-pox were as fatal now, with our population of twenty millions, as it was during the latter period of the last half century, or before vac- cination, it would destroy in Great Britain alone, some £0,000 lives a-year; for with a population of about eight millions, it then yearly produced a mortality amounting to 30,000 or 40,000 deaths. Physicians may proudly point to this single discovery alone, as a victory of medicine over disease and death, unequalled in its greatness and importance by any of the wondrous discoveries that have been made through the whole past century in any of the physical arts or practical sciences. By itself alone vaccination has extended already the average sum of man's life upon earth some three or four years. Nor are the marvellously simple means by which medicine has been able to accomplish this mighty end, less remarkable than the end itself. With an almost invisible speck of matter upon the point of his lancet, the medical man can in a great measure defy one of the most fatal, and at the same time one of the most loathsome, diseases that ever afflicted the human race. For even when it spared life, we must remember how often in former times an attack of small-pox spared not the features and the very eye- sight of the escaped patient. And indeed the more deeply any man consi- ders the subject, the more will he venerate the name and discovery of Jenner, to whom was thus, as it were, entrusted the mighty and responsible office of shutting one of the great gates of human death. During the last half century, mili- tary science has, it is often averred, advanced greatly and permanently; that is, it