INAUGURAL ADDRESS. i in some particular disease, or in some particular points in pathology or therapeu- tics. Societies, in short, like this, stimulate their members onwards by a kind of intellectual contagion ; and as the human mind is swayed powerfully by imitation, we feel ourselves, in such associations as the present, often infected by the love of work, and the desire of extending professional knowledge, by having a constantly recurring opportunity of watching and witnessing these qualities manifested in the acts and ardour of others. Such associations as this Society, banded together for the mutual cultiva- tion of professional knowledge amongst its members, and the general advance- ment of medical science and medical art, have principally sprung up here and elsewhere within the course of the present century. Numbers of the most valu- able professional essays, and even larger works, that have been published within the last fifty years, have originated in communications to some one or other of our medical societies. Many of these essays and works would never have been written but for this simple origin. And, doubtless, the progress that the heal- ing art has made, during that period, has been in no small degree owing to the stimulating and regulating influence of medical association. In making this ob- servation, I take it for granted that medical science has advanced greatly during the last half century,—that is to say, within the period that the Medico- Chirurgical Societies of London, Edinburgh, and similar institutions elsewhere, have been at work. Ever and anon we hear it doubted, by men both out and in the profession, whether medicine has made any marked progress at all during the period that I speak of. Many of us have heard it, I believe, broadly insinu- ated, that, while other departments of science and art have during the last fifty or sixty years been marching forwards at a pace previously unprecedented in their history, the art of healing has remained comparatively stationary. The late numerous and marvellous strides made in practical science are generally dated as commencing with the time at which our illustrious countryman Watt discovered, or rather re-discovered, the steam-engine; or since he and others taught mankind to subdue and harness that mighty but docile monster-power to different kinds of machinery, and trained it to accomplish for the human race, works which seemed formerly beyond all human powers and human hope. The resultant wonders of the steamboat and of the locomotive are inventions of the last thirty or forty years. And whilst, with the swift rush of the iron horse, our inert bodies are now carried from place to place with the speed of the bird, modern science has, of late years, achieved a still greater feat, for it has given us the means of sending even our very thoughts along that still more wondrous railway—the railway of the mind —the electric telegraph. The calculus of the mathematician, and the telescope of the astronomer, have lately proved to mankind that worlds, hitherto undreamt of, circle round our sun. And amidst the thousand startling discoveries and revolu- tions accomplished diu-ingthelasthalf-centurybythescience of chemistry, no applica- tion of that science is perhaps more st range than the fact, that the chemist has taught the artist to convert that sun himself into a marvellous and matchless painter, who can elaborate the most'difficult portraits, and the most complex landscapes and figure pictures, with a precision and minuteness unattainable by human art,—and with a rapidity so great, that—if properly tasked—he could finish countless gal-