INAUGURAL ADDRESS. 5 leries of them, in a briefer space of time than is occupied by one single dip and dash of the brush of a mortal artist. But within the same wondrous period of progress during which these brilliant discoveries have been taking place in other departments of art, medicine, we can confidently maintain, has been by no means stationary. On the contrary, it has in various ways advanced by strides as marked and as great as those belong- ing to any other department of art taken individually. During the period I allude to, its progress has been in various directions and under various forms. To prove this statement, let me endeavour to recal to your recollection some of the principal changes that have taken place since the commencement of the present century, or since the era of Watt's discovery. Of course, I must allude only to the principal amongst them in such a limited address as the present. And for the same reason the subjects I select for remark must be selected arbitrarily, rather than systematically. Some departments of medical science which were previously comparatively unknown, have in a manner arisen during the last fifty or sixty years, or at least have been practically systeniatised during it. At the present day we can probably scarcely appreciate the vast importance of some of these, and the advantage which a knowledge of them gives us as practitioners over the cultivators of medicine half a century ago. Nor, perhaps, would it be possible to see and appreciate them in their proper value, unless we were actually again re-deprived of their aid in pathology, diagnosis, and practice, and -unless all the knowledge and advan- tages springing from them eame to be suddenly obliterated and blotted out. Morbid Anatomy, for example, belongs in a great measure to this category. It is quite true that pathological anatomy was known, and in some degree appre- ciated, before the time I speak of, in the same way that the steam-engine was (as I have already hinted) known before the time of Watt. But it is equally eertain that it is only during the last forty or fifty years that pathological anatomy has been so studied as to assume the importance of a leading and in- dispensable branch of medical knowledge. In such a Society as this, it is, I believe, most unnecessary to dwell upon the advances made in medicine and surgery by the cultivation of pathological or necroscopic anatomy. And its uses have been various. By its light new dis- eases have been discovered, which were formerly all but unknown; such as emphysema of the lung, cedema glottidis, phlebitis, ramollisement of the brain, endocarditis, melanosis, etc. In other instances, it has enabled us to separate into specific diseases some affections which formerly were constantly confounded together, both in diagnosis and treatment, as the different species of inflamma- tion of the lungs,—pleurisy, pneumonia, and bronchitis;—the different diseases of the heart;—the different forms of tumours, etc. In another range of its investi- gations, it has been the happy means of enabling us to study and trace accurately the general courses which inflammatory, tubercular, carcinomatous, and other such diseases are liable to follow, as well as the varieties which they are liable to present in different organs of the body. It has changed and corrected our ideas