INAUGURAL ADDRESS. 12 3. Surgeons have lately introduced some altogether new modes of operating. Such is Tenotomy ; and different novel and useful operations are now performed on the principle of tenotomy and subcutaneous incision. The extensive modern class of plastic operations belongs to the same category. 4. One or two individual operations, altogether new, have come into practice, and have been already the happy means of saving no small amount of human life; such as the ligature of the carotid, subclavian, and other large arteries; excision of the upper and lower jaws; the perineal incision in aggravated urethral strictures, etc. 5. Surgery, however, has made great advances in other matters. It has be- come every day more and more the boast and glory of the surgeon, that he is now able to heal and cure, without operation, cases and diseases in which, twenty or thirty years ago, operations were considered indispensable ; and that he can often also substitute lesser operations for those of a more grave and dangerous character, as the excision of joints instead of the total and abso- lute amputation of the limb to which the diseasedajoint belongs ; the removal of the ends of the bones in compound dislocations instead of the removal of the whole extremity; the cure of hydroceles and serous cysts by injections, instead of setons and incisions, etc. In many of the accidents and diseases of the skull, in compound fractures of the extremities, etc., etc., operative measures are far more rarely had recourse to now than they were at the commencement of the present century. In truth, while modern surgery has been, by the aid of anatomy, ren- dering all its operative procedures more simple and certain, it has been at the same time showing a marked and strong tendency towards the avoidance of all avoidable operations. Its present acknowledged aim is far more than formerly, the medical preservation and cure rather than the surgical amputation and cutting off of diseased parts. In many directions and respects, it is becoming every day more medical and less operative in its character. Witness the treatment of scro- fulous bones, joints, etc., by diet, rest, iodine, cod-liver oil, instead of issues, in- cisions, and amputations. There will always, of course, be lesions, and diseases, and injuries, only capable of being remedied and removed by operative interference; but the perfection of surgery would perhaps be, what it never will be, the power, namely, of . removing these lesions, and diseases, and injuries, without the assist- ance of knife and scalpel. 6. In few matters has surgery more improved than in the dressings and cure of wounds and external ulcers. For how much more simple, and how much more efficacious too, are the light water-dressing and slight medicinal lotions of modern surgery, than were the heavy and complex layers of ointments, lints, compresses, straps, bandages, etc., which were almost universally used by practitioners thirty or forty years ago ? 7. Further, it has been principally during the time to which these observations apply, that the attention of the surgeon has been directed to the causes which lead to death after operations, with a view of trying to avoid and avert these causes. No point has been better established in modern times, than the important fact that, after surgical operations, surgical patients do not die of surgical com- plications, as hemorrhage, mortification, tetanus, etc., but die in from eighty to ninety per cent, from blood-poisoning and internal inflammations, as pleuritis,