ANUS, 270 we see tlie difficulty occasioned to the free course of the intestinal matter, by the deviation of the bowel from its regular and uniform curve, and its assuming an angular direction. Besides, as Du- puytren has admirably explained, the bowel being, in cases of artificial anus, fixed by adhesions to the parietes of the abdomen, this state not only resists the motions of the digestive tube, but it makes the adherent portion of the bowel a fixed point, towards which all the efforts of the intestinal canal are concentrated, and towards which its contents are incessantly directed : whence a true acceleration of them from the stomach to the artificial anus. A still more serious inconvenience is the shortening of the track which they have to pass. Their lodg- ment in the intestinal canal being abridged, their digestion remains incomplete, and the absorption of their nutritive principles is performed with less precision. Then nutrition is impaired, and the ex haustion threatens to render the continuance o all the organic functions impossible. (See Dupuy- tren, CUnique Cldr. t. ii. p. 213.) Many patients, afflicted with an artificial anus, void no faeces at all from the rectum ; but, occa- sionally, a thick whitish substance, which is the mucous secretion of the portion of the large intes- tines nearest to the anus. Under certain circum stances, the quantity of this mucous discharge is more copious. {DesauU, vol. cit. p. 359.) Another disagreeable occurrence, to which persons with an artificial anus are exposed, is a prolapsus of the bowel, similar to what sometimes happens through the anus with respect to the rectum. The d°escent of the bowel is sometimes simple, only afi'ecting a portion of the intestinal canal just above, or below, the opening. On other occasions, the complaint is double, the bowel both above and below the opening being prolapsed. This descent of the intestine forms a tumor, the dimensions of which vary considerably in diff'erent subjects. In- stances have been known of its attaining the length of sixteen or eighteen inches, or even two feet. {Dupiiyiren, Clirdque Cldr. t. ii. p. 200.) The surface of the prolapsus is reddish, like that of the inside of the intestine, though discoloured by the irritation of exposure to the air. When it has been of long continuance, the mucous membrane becomes dense and solid, covered with a thin dry cuticle, and assumes the characters of cutaneous texture. (See Dupuytren, vol. cit.) When the protrusion is caused by the upper part of the intestinal canal, the fasces are voided at the ex tremity of the tumor ; and when the swelhng consists of the lower portion of the bowel, the ex crement is evacuated at the base of the prolapsed part. By observing this evacuation, when the tumor is double, it is easy to know to which end of the intestinal canal each protruded portion be- longs. This consequence of an artificial anus is very serious, because it greatly increases the in- convenience which the patient suffers. Sometimes the tumor is exquisitely sensitive ; and, occasion ally, when the eversion of the intestine is consider- able, a strangulation is produced, which puts the patient's life in danger. An artificial anus, particularly that formed by the destruction of the whole calibre of the bowel, rarely continues a simple fistulous opening, but almost always becomes complicated witli a prolap- sus of the intestine, the interior of which becomes everted as well as protruded. This happens will: greater facility, in proportion as the intestine is less fixed in the cavity of the abdomen. The protrusion is more considerable, in proportion as the efforts of the patient at stool are greater ; and it is the more afflicting, the older the artificial anus is. The pro- lapsus, or protrusion of the lower end of the bowel, is less common ■ than that of the upper ; it is not so voluminous ; and seems to be occasioned by the antiperistaltic movements which propel the mucous secretion of the lower part of the intestinal canal towards the artificial anus. (See Duptt-lien, CUnique Cldr. t. ii. p. I.^IS.) These tumors, are usually of an elongated conical shape, with the apex in the integuments, and a depressed aperture in the base, whence is discharged stercoraceous matter, if the prolapsus be connected with the up- per portion of the bowel ; and mucus, or even the fluid of clysters, if connected with the lower. The following interesting case of artificial anus, complicated with prolapsus, is recorded by Mr. Lawrence. " The patient, sixty years of age, has voided all his stools through the groin for about seventeen years, and still retains the external appearances of health and activity. His complaint was a scrotal hernia of the size of a pigeon's egg, before the occur- rence of the strangulation which ended in mortifi- cation. The testis of the same side, and a large portion of the surrounding integuments, were in- volved in destruction with the hernia. He had never worn a truss, nor taken any measures to obviate the inconveniences arising from the dis- charge of his fffices, except that of keeping always a quantity of tow in his breeches." " A prolapsus of the intestine has taken place through the artificial opening. The projecting part varies in length and size at different times. It was four inches long when I saw it; and the basis, which is the largest part, measured nearly six inches in circumference. This prolapsus never recedes entirely, but is sometimes considerably smaller. It has occasionally protruded to the ength of eight or ten inches, being at the same time equal in size to the forearm, and bleeding copiously. This is attended with great pain, and only happens when the bowels are much disordered. Warm fomentations and a recumbent position relieve in this case, by causing the gut to return. "The prolapsus is of a uniform red colour, similar to that of florid and healthy granulations. The surface, although wrinkled and irregular, is smooth and lubricated by a mucous secretion. It feels firm and fleshy, and can be squeezed and handled without exciting pain: it approaches on the whole to a cylindrical form, and its anterior loose extremity, which is of circular figure, contains a roundish depressed opening, tlirough which the stools are voided. The basis of the swelling is con- tinuous on all sides with the integuments and 1 could discover no opening of the lower end of the cut. This person does not possess the slightest power of holding the stools. They are often voided suddenly and without giving h.m any notice. When the fa;ces are fluid, which is generally the case, they come away repeatedly m the day, and are discharged with considerable force ; but when they arc of a more firm consistence there is not more than one stool in two or three days, and eir expulsion requires much straining. At these times thiir size is not greater than the httle "AVheueverhe retains his urine, after feeling