584 fragment could be felt under the skin. A hollow, uito which the finger could be passed as far as the first joint, existed below and in front of the outer malleolus. The great toe was flexed, and could not be extended by any moderate degree of force. For the reduction, the leg was flexed on the thigh and the foot on the leg. Extension was then made from the heel and instep, and counter-exten- sion from the leg, the foot being at the same time turned inwards, and pressure made to force the hard substance on the tendo Achillis forwards. The pressure being kept up for ten minutes, a snap ■was heard, and the tumor disappeared. (See La7icet, July 6, 1839, p. 559.) Here probably the astragalus was not completely removed from between the tibia and os calcis, but some portion of it, perhaps the head and neck, was engaged between those bones, and by holding them apart, may have opened a way for the bone to return to its place, and so have rendered the reduc- tion possible. In all the above cases the dislocation was simple. _ M. Ne'laton mentions a case of compound dislocation backwards, seen by him at the Hopi- tal St. Louis, where the nature of the accident was ascertainable through the wound in the skin. {El. de Pathol. Chir. t. ii. p. 484.) Another was under the care of Mr. Turner, in the Manchester Infir- mary. The patient was a railway engineer, and whilst at work, the fly wheel of the engine caught his knee, and, it was supposed, turned the leg violently inwards, whilst the foot was pushed in the opposite direction. The astragalus protruded through a wound in the skin an inch and a half long, situated on the outer side and behind the malleolus externus ; the bone was tilted round so as to present its tibial articulating surface to the ■wound. The dislocation here was not directly backwards, but, as Mr. Turner describes it, " out- wards, downwards, and backwards." The tibia and fibula were uninjured. All attempts at reduction proved unavailing, the astragalus was therefore dissected away, and the patient ultimately did ■well. (See Trans. ofProv. Med. and Surg. Associa- Hon, 1843, p. 440.)] 5. [^Rotaiort/ dislocation oftlie astragalus. Luxation par rotation sur place.—In some cases of complete dislocation the astragalus may undergo a movement of rotation on its vertical axis, so as to become placed more or less transversely across the foot ; but in the case now under consideration it is rotated without leaving its position between the tibia and OS calcis. It may become placed transversely beneath the tibia and fibula, or it may even be turned completely round, so that its head is directed towards the tendo Achillis. M. Malgaigne relates four instances of this peculiar accident. In One, by M. Lauraonier, the head of the astragalus protruded through the skin under the malleolus internus, between the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum, and Its trochlea was situated transversely in the articulation, holding the tibia and fibula apart. The astragalus was extracted successfully. In another, M. Denonvilliers found the body of the astragalus separated by a fracture from the noad ol the bone, and rotated so as to cross the ciucaneum at a right angle, with its troclile ar sur- P''°?'''iding through the integuraeiita beneath ana behind the malleolus internus. The head of DISLOCATION. the bone remained in its natural situation The dis located portion was extracted, but the patient died. In the two remaming cases there was neither fracture of the bone nor rupture of the inteRument In one of these, under M. Thierry, the astragalus was turned completely round, so that its head was directed backwards towards the tendo Achillis • it was also twisted laterally, so that it rested upon Its outer side, and its superior articular surface was directed inwards. Beneath the malleolus internus could be felt a smooth rounded prominence, limited below by a convex border, which appeared to be the edge of the trochlear surface of the astraga- lus ; above and behind this prominence could be distinguished another, between the internal malleolus and the tendo Achillis. The external border of the foot was much raised ; the heel was carried upwards and backwards. The case was evidently a dislocation of the astragalus, but its precise nature was not recognised, and the attempts at reduction were unsuccessful. The skin soon after- wards sloughed, and the astragalus was exposed, when it was found that the posterior projection was formed by the head of the bone, and that its pos- terior extremity was carried forwards and outwards, between the os calcis, cuboid, and scaphoid. The tibia rested upon the inner surface of the astragalus, the trochlear surface of which was turned inwards. Extraction of the astragalus was then practised, and it was found that some fibres of the inter-osseous ligament still remained entire. Amputation subse- quently became necessary. The remaining case was a dislocation of old standing, which was dissected by M. Foucher. There was no appearance of cicatrix on the skin! The foot was much flattened, and its internal border was slightly raised. Internally was a considerable projection, which seemed to belong to the malleolus internus. The dissection, however, showed that it was formed by the head of the astragalus, which was situated immediately beneath the malleolus ; the trochlea of the astragalus was placed transversely under the tibia. (See Malgaigne, Traiie, desFraci. t. II. p. 1060. The first of these cases is recorded by Laumonier, Journ. de Fourcroy, 1/91. t. ii. p. 40 ; the other three, by Fottclier, Rev. Med. Chir. 1845. t, xvii. p. 203.)] 6. ^Dislocation of tJie astragalus "par renverse- mcnt.'"'—In this case the astragalus remains in its natural situation, between the tibiaand cs calcis,but is twisted upon itself; either half round, so that its lateral surfaces look upwards and downwards, and its superior and inferior surfaces are placed laterally; or completely round, so that its upper surface looks' do\viiwards, and its lower surface upwards. This is, in fact, another kind of rotation, the bone rotating on its antero-posterior, instead of on its vertical axis.] In a case published by Dupuytren, a person dis- located the astragalus by alighting with great vio- lence upon the heel, the bone being driven forward by the pressure which it had sustained between the tibia and os calcis, so as to form a protuberance under the skin of the instep. As the reduction was found impracticable, a cut was made down to the displaced bone with the intention of extracting it, but Dupuytren found that he could not remove it so readily as he expected, nor could he replace it; and it was not till after a tedious operation that he succeeded in taking it away. The diffi-