142 ANEURISM iuteiior of which it narrow aperture tubular aneurism, with the communicates by a narrow aperture called the mouth of the sac. This form of aneurism ia divided into the true and the false varieties. By the iriie is meant the case in which there is a partial dila- tation of all the coats of the vessel. By the J'ahe, that is when there is a dilatation of one, or at most two, of the coats, with rupture of the rest. There are two varieties of the false aneurism — the cir- cumscribed and the diffused. By the circumscribed false aneicrism is meant that form of the disease in which the blood is still contained within a sac formed by at least one of the arterial coats, how- ever expanded and altered in its structure this may be. In the diffused false aneurism the blood is .extravasated into the cellular tissues of the limb or part, through which it may either be widely .spread or be confined by the matting together of the parts around into a kind of sac. -'' The dissecting aneurism is that form of the disease in which the sac is contained in the walls of the artery between its coats. A rupture takes place through the internal coat into the middle one, which is split into two layers, often to a conside- rable extent. I have observed that dissecting aneurisms arrange themselves in three forms :—1. The blood, after passing through the laminae of the middle coat, becomes diifused outside the vessel. 2. The blood passing between the laminae of the middle coat is prevented bursting internally by the thickened outer coat, and bursts again through the internal coat into the interior of the vessel, thus forming a channel through the coat, both ends of which commence with the interior of the vessel. 3. The blood forms a permanent sac in the in- terior of the coats of the vessel, between the laminas of the middle coat. In the following pages, however, the definitions of aneurism as given by Mr. Cooper are preserved, in order that the author's meaning may not be departed from.] The following are the symptoms of a true circum- scribed aneurism:—The first thing which the patient perceives is an e.xtraordinary throbbing in some particular situation, and on paying a little more attention he discovers there a small soft pulsating tumor, which in a great measure disappears when compressed, but returns again as soon as the pres- sure is removed. With the return of pulsation, and of the swelling, a peculiar thrilling feel is ex- perienced, caused by the passage of the blood mto the sac. [On the application of the stethoscope, a bellows murmur or a bruit of some kind, perhaps rasping or sawing, will be readily perceived, syn- chronous with the pulse in the artery.] If the artery be compressed on the distal side of the swelling, this will be rendered still larger and tenser. A spontaneous aneurism is generally slow in its growth, not perhaps exceeding the size of an egg in a year, and rarely that of a flattened orange. {Guthrie, op. cit. p. 108.) At first it is generally unattended with pain, or change in the colour of the skin. The pulsation is synchronous with the beat of the artery. It is eccentric and distensile. When once the tumor lias originated, it continu- ally grows larger, though very gradually, and at length attains a considerable size. In propor- tion as it becomes larger, its pulsations often become weaker; and, indeed, when the disease has acquired much magnitude, they are frequently either quite lost, or only distinguishable with the stethoscope. [It does not necessarily follow that the pulsation lessens in force as the aneurism grows largci-, on thecontrary, the reverse is often observed. It is only when the aneurism has become solid as well as large that the pulsations are less distinct.] The diminution of the pulsation has been partly ascribed to the coats of the artery losing their dilatable and elastic qualitj', in proportion as they are distended, but chiefly to the lamellated coagulated blood deposited on the inner surface of the sac, particularly in large aneurisms, in which the motion of some of the blood is always inter- rupted. Immediately such coagulated blood lodges in the sac, pressure can only produce a partial dis- appearance of the swelling, This deposition of lamellated coagulum in the aneurismal sac is a circumstance of considerable importance ; for it has been well explained by Mr. Hodgson, that it is the mode by which the spontaneous cure of the disease is in most instances eflfected. " One of the circumstances which, in the most earlj' stage, generally attend the formation of aneurism (says this author), is the establishment of that process which is the basis of its future cure. The blood, which enters the sac soon after its formation, generally leaves upon its internal surface a stratum of coagulum, and successive depositions of the fibrous part of the blood gradually diminish the cavity of the tumor. At length, the sac becomes entirely filled with this substance, and the depo- sition of it generally continues in the artery, which supplies the disease, forming a firm plug of coagu- lum, which extends on both sides of the sac, to the next important ramifications that are given off fi:om the artery. The circulation through the vessel is thus prevented, the blood is conveyed by collateral channels, and another process is insti- tuted, whereby the bulk of the tumor is removed," &c. {On the Diseases of Arteries, ^-c. p. 114.) Whether there is any truth in Kreysig's conjecture, that some of the lymph may exude from the inside of the sac itself, I cannot presume to say; he owns, however, that the inner concentric layers present- ing the appearance of being deposited last, is a circumstance rather against his surmise, though he adverts to some other circumstances whicli incline him to look upon the opinion as possibly correct. {German Translation of Mr. Hodgson's Work, p. 124.) When the aneurism has not been caused by dilatation, but by a rupture of the inner coats of the vessel, the patient usually refers to some par- ticular period, and generally to one of exertion, when this rupture was indicated by pain of a more or less acute nature, which either continued with a corresponding degree of lameness, or left such a sense of uneasiness as made the patient put his hand frequently on the part. On one of these occasions, the pulsating tumor is discovered. If the aneu- rism, whether of one kind or another, be in the ham, the patient first limps ; then the leg becomes permanently bent; and when the tumor begins to press on the nerves, veins, and absorbents, the toes and leg are extremely painful, and tlie foot and leg (Edematous. (See Gulhru; On Dtf. of Arteries, p. 10,0.) . , It is the gener.il belief, that the pulsation ol the tumor is produced by the jet of blood nito it at each stroke of the heart. This opinion, however, is disputed by an eminent writer, who asks, is it true, that the pulsation of .aneurisms proceeds from the entrance of a more considerable stream of blood into the snc, and the distention ol tne swelling thereby produced ? In aneurisms, wlncti