^^'^ GLAUCOMA, forward and almost touches the cornea ; the cor- nea looks slightly dull, as if minutely granular ; the globe 13 stonehard and tender when pressed upon. {Dixon, Diseases of the Eye, p. 224, 1855.) A surgical treatment of the acute and chronic form of glaucoma has been introduced by Pro- fessor V. Graefe, of Berlin j the leading idea of the operation consists in relieving the intra-ocular pressure, and the operation essentially consists in introducing a cataract knife through the semi transparent part of the sclerotic, close to the corneal edge into the anterior chamber,, and making an incision from one-quarter to one-sixth of an inch long ; when the knife is withdrawn the aqueous humour and the iris follow it; the prolapsing iris is drawn out at One corner of the section and the drawn-out portion snipped off with scissors, so that from one-quarter to one third of it is removed ; it is supposed that by this means the vitreous and aqueous chambers are thrown into one, that the remainder of the iris atrophies, and that the tension of the globe being diminished, the absorption of the fluid effused in the deeper tissues of the eye, is encouraged ; the retinal vessels admitting more blood, small blood effusions are more frequent on the retina. Mr. Bowman introduces the knife at the upper edge of the cornea, thus allowing the upper lid to cover part of the very large pupillary opening. The prognosis of chronic glaucoma depends upon the stage in which the eye affected is operated upon; when blind for some time it is not expected to re- gain sight, and the operation is performed only to relieve pain and tension. A chronic glaucoma- tous eye, with mere perception of light, is rarely improved by the operation; but generally the pain and the progress towards blindness are arrested. An eye with subacute glaucoma, and still more one suffering under an acute glaucomatous attack, ofters^ the best prospects of success for the operation, especially if the attack has occurred very recently, and if the turbid state of the media contributes much to the loss of vision. Of seventy-eight cases operated upon, six were cases of chronic glaucoma without perception of light ; one of them had both eyes operated on, two the right, and three the left eye only. Fiftj-- three more were cases of chronic and subacute glau- coma, with different degrees of impaired vision; of these, nineteen had both eyes operated on, sixteen the left, and eighteen the right eye only. Nine- teen were cases of acute glaucoma, eight of which had both eyes operated on, five the left, and six the right eye only. Of the seven chronic glaucomatous blind eyes operated upon for the relief of pain and tension one requires mention. In this instance the lens capsule was touched, and hard portions of lens of a transparent yellowish appearance presented in the section; the ej-e was at once closed, and pressure with a piece of cotton-wool applied ; no further escape of the contents of the eye followed, and the wound healed well, though the patient had a se- vere attack of what appeared to be catarrhal oph- thiilnna, with pains for three days. Of the seventy-two eyes with chronic or sub- acute glauconi.-i operated on, with a view of restoring Si,rf7 o.^'-'^li^^i-g P'-^in tension, occunod m twelve cases ; tlie blood escaped in some cases from the ciliary attachment of the iris in others from near the pupillary edge, and in some It was seen oozing from the free surface of the ins. The bleeding came on either durinrr the operation or not unfrequently after the speculum had been removed. In one case it began a quarter ot an hour after the operation, and in another the day following ; in the latter case it was followed by suppuration of the globe. The blood as it oozes out should be removed at once, otherwise it may clot, assume the shape of the anterior cham- ber, and IS difficult to remove. The end of the scoop is generally placed in the corneal wound, and pressure with some other instrument is made upon the cornea from below towards the wound ; or simply pressure is made on the cornea with the scoop._ It appears to be less safe to pass the scoop quite into the anterior chamber and thus to remove the blood. A counter puncture has been mftde in one case to allow the blood to escape. It takes, if allowed to remain, fi'om three to nine days to be- come absorbed. The subacute form of glaucoma appears to be most liable to bleeding after the operation. The lens in seven cases became opaque, without any fragments escaping: most of these cases had been operated upon with the lance-shaped knife. Hard portions of transparent lens, where its capsule had been wounded, escaped in three cases; the remainder of the lens became opaque in two of them : pressure to avoid further escape of lens or vitreous was applied. In the third case remaining fragments of the lens appear to have escaped some time after the operation, a clear pupil with improved vision being found the third day after it. There had been much pain in the eye for some time. In one case the lens in its capsule presented m the section, and six hours after the operation was found with about a third of the vitreous humour (of abnormal consistence) at the side of the patient; the pain, which had been severe, subsided after this had happened. Some lenticular fragments escaped also in another case in which the lens had not been touched ; some vitreous followed while removing the remainder of the lens with the scoop, but the application of pressure stopped any further escape that might have happened, and "no pain followed. The opaque lens of several of the above cases was extracted with a favourable result. The section was, i^ some of the first cases operated upon, kept open by portions of iris v. hich were left there, to allow the fluid which might accumulate in the anterior chamber during the first days after the operations to drain oft'. A gaping of the section, with accidents similar to those accompanying an irritable prolapse of the iris after extraction, was in two cases caused by fluid vitreous, which distended the wound. It was gradually coated over with lymph and flat- tened down; the lens remained transparent in both cases. One case presented all the fatal accidents of the operation—first some difficulty in seizing the iris, then escape of some vitreous, then of the lens, then of a large portion of vitreous with the h3-aloid fossa attached to it, then of the remainder of the vitre- ou.s, followed by about half an ounce of blood. Slinht pressure was applied ; no pain followed. Twenty-seven eyes attacked by acute glaucoma ' ' - " Three of them were fol- were operated upon.