782 one side of the nerve, that the retina of that side was paralysed. The cup is completed most rapidly when an acute attack occurs in a chronic glauco- matous eye, and it is formed secondarily in eyes which have suffered from acute attacks of glaucoma. In the eye attacked by acute glaucoma, in one case the optic nerve appeared flat and full and the vessels thin; in two other cases the vessels were thick and tortuous and the optic nerve small and red; and in five cases was the optic nerve deep red, with a grey circle near its periphery, and the vessels were thin and hardly perceptible while in the nerve. The red colour of the nerve is due to imbibition of blood and to small hsemorrhages from vessels into the nerve. The nerve after Von Graefe's operation, remains red for a few days and then assumes a greyish-white colour, which, in the course of a year, in three cases, was followed by a moderately cupped bluish-grey optic nerve; the vessels in the retina and in the cup being equallv large. Palliology.—Dissection of eleven eyes which suffered from chronic glaucomatous changes. The eyes had no perception of light. The tension of the globes was lessened after excision. The consis- tence of the vitreous was greater (harder) than normal in eight, and somewhat viscid in one case. It had a yellowish tinge in all cases. It was re- placed by yellowish fluid in an eye which was staphylomatous, and in another, where circum- scribed effusions of blood had occurred, between sclera and choroid, thus displacing the latter with the retina. The fluid state did not extend beyond the displaced or staphylomatous portions. The whole of the vitreous had escaped in two cases in which bleeding had occurred between sclera and choroid, the latter having been displaced. The choroid appeared very rotten, and was, in a few cases, gorged with blood, its pigment appeared normal round the optic nerve, but had in many places disappeared from the equator of the eye to the oraserrata; there it was thinned and atrophied; we may say that the choroid was the most atrophied where the retina was most changed, i. e. between the equator of the eye and the ora serrata. The hexagonal cells had, in most cases, their normal shape round the optic nerve; further on they be- came rounded off, and had entirely disappeared from the staphylomatous choroid and from its an- terior portions; their granules appeared smaller, they had lost their lustre; the changes of the hex- agonal cells were proportionate to those of Jacob's membrane (rods and bulbs). The retina.—In most cases it appeared transpa- rent to the naked eye, but hazy and pigraent- sprmkled when examined microscopically; its tissue, was very rotten and more so from the equator forwards; it was in apposition with the choroid. No yellow spot was perceptible in two cases. We shall treat of its constituents separately. The rods and bulbs.—They were present round the optic nerve in all cases; but appeared large, swollen, and had lost their distinctness of outline; m many places they were greyish and sprinkled With minute grey granules. The swelling, indis- tmctness and greyish colour increased towards the equator; and no rods were found at most places near the oraserrata; there the outer surface of the t)bnn« greyish, translucent, amor- Piious appearance. GLAUCOMA. Tlie radial fibres (continuation of some of the rods).—Those in the retina round the optic nerve were thin and ill-defined; those further on appeared still thinner; many had shrivelled away; others were hardly perceptible, especially those beyond the equator of the eye. I could only find them extend up to the inner membrana limitans in one eye. This change of the radial fibres gave the nerve cells the appearance of being heaped toge- ther indiscriminately; they had lost their regidar ariangment into piles. The nerve cells.—They could easily be distin- guished from healthy ones by their slight loss of transparency; they resembled, in some instances, agglomerations of large fat globules, by their resis- tance to chromic acid (they did not become gra- nular), and by their appearing swollen. The thick- ness of the layer of nerve cells had decreased round the optic nerve; it became thinner further on, and hardly any nerve cells were perceptible near the ora serrata. The layer of nerve cells which is level with the ganglion cells and with the blood-vessels, had in all cases been reduced to a finely granular hazy mass, which was sprinkled with grey and with brownish patches and in most cases with fresh blood spots, only in one instance could I see some ganglion cells. T/ie vessels.—A glaucomatous retina is remark- able for the great increase of capillaries: this vascularity is greatest in the thicker parts of the retina, but is still very considerable near the ora serrata, so that at that part the capillaries and an amorphous, grey, translucent, rotten membrane are the only remnants of the retina. The arteries are few and thin. The veins are varicose; an interruption of the inner coat of the veins, with a dilatation of this weaker portion of their walls, has been noticed in several cases. The blood effusions (round blood spots), which are frequently observed in the retina round the optic nerve and near the equator, appear to have come from the veins and generally from their lower and lateral part, the blood spreading among the nerve cells or perforating the retina and dis- placing the rods. Sections of the vessels show that they are flattened in different directions. The capillaries form an exceedingly dense network of angular and arched canals, which, in many in- stances, are filled by yellowish serum; in others by serum and by pale swollen blood corpuscles ; in others they are empty. All the capillaries are large and varicose; many are aneurismatic (the latter fact was first noticed by Mr. W. Hulke), especially those in the portions of the retina near the ora serrata. The aneurismata are empty in most cases; in a few they were filled with a brownish, yellowish or black amorphous substance. The retina in one case was sprinkled with large transparent cells, some of which were near blood- vessels; to many of these no blood-vessols could be traced: either the aneurismatic pouches had been left and the adjoining vessel destroyed, or these large cells were some new formation; they resembled the aneurismatic dilatiitions in their disappearing or shrivelling up on the addition of acetic acid. In other places the capillaries ap- peared to have been ruptured, and their contents, escaping among the nerve cells, to have caused the brownish patciiy appearance of that layer. The optic neive fibres.—Only in a few eases, and