776 Ganglions often possess considerable elasticity, ihey may occur iinpreceded by any accidenl: bu frequeiitly are the consequence of bruises and ^Iolent sprains WJien opened they are generally found 0 be filled with a viscid transparent fluid resembling white of egg, or rather jelly. As Mr. -aston Key has observed, the contents of a ganglionic tumour differ from those of a common bursa mucosa. The latter secretes a fluid like ordinary synovia ; the ganglion most usually con- tains a substance like the outer layers of the crys- talline lens, soft, viscid, and nearly solid. (See Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. i. p. 41,5.) Different pathological views are entertained respecting the formation of ganglions. In France these tumors are regarded as dropsies or hydro- celes of the sheaths of tendons. Most of them it IS observed, form over small compact joints, like those of the carpus and tarsus, possessing little motion, and covered by dense fibrous layers- or else in the course of the sheaths of the tendons of tlie hand or foot. In these small arthrodial joints, and m the sheaths of tendons, the synovial mem- brane being covered by strong fibrous textures, cannot undergo any uniform distension by an accu- mulation of their secretion, which causes a protrusion ot the synovial membrane at some interspace of the fibrous investment, which, however, extends over other parts of the internal cyst. It is also alleged that tlie ganglion has a communication with the in- terior of the fibrous sheath. (See Bk,in, in Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Pratiques, art. Ganglion.) Mr. Aston Key joins in representing ganglions as consisting of a double bag : the outer one tendinous and firm; the inner, like a synovial one, thin and secreting; but that, in most instances, the outer one cannot be separated from the inner. However he differs from M. Begin in regarding a ganglion as a new structure. {Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. i. p. 415.) Stimulant applications sometimes succeed in curing ganglions, and, at one time, frictions with oleum origani, or with liniment of camphor strengthened with tinct. canthar., were a common method. Of late years, friction with iodine lini- ments and the ointment of iodide of potassium, has also had extensive trials. I have often seen the tumors lessened by these means, but seldom cured; for, no sooner has the friction been discon- tinued, than the fluid in the cyst has accumulated again. Compression is often employed. Persons with ganglions have been recommended to press upon them strongly with their thumb several times a aay. After this has been repeated very often, the 17A ■ ^°™etimes disappeared. Another method IS to make pressure on ganglions by means 01 a piece of sheet-lead, bound upon the part with a bandage. In conjunction with this treatment, inctions with stimulating liniments or camphorated mercurial ointment are usually tried. J^or the ganglion of the tendinous investment of m! u ' \ n,-"" occasionally employed by II. ivey. Blisters, stimulating plasters, and moZ; r"' ^ ^""f-"^' "i-----)' oft P an of H '''^•■^"'•'•Se- The more eflbctual is to puncture Plast r '7 '"y.P««=">-« with a bandage and ^1', the scton becomes the most reaiy, the GANGLION. most mild, and the most effective reniedv " (n,, cit. vol. i. p. 417.) ^ ' Ganglions may be cured by pressure sufficient to rupture the cyst; and some authors have recoiii mended putting the hand affected upon a tabl" and then striking the ganglion several times with the fist, the back of a book, or a mallet. The cvst of a recent ganglion may also be burst, by coni- pressing it strongly with the thumbs, with or with- out the intervention of a piece of money; the fluid IS effused into the adjacent cellular membrane • and, pressure being now employed, the opposite sides of the cavity become united by the adhesive inflammation, and the recurrence of the disease is prevented. On this principle, Sir Astley Cooper has often cured the disease. For many years I have adopted the plan of curing ordinary ganglions by making a small puncture in them, discharging their contents, and then applying pressure. I have never seen any unpleasant effects follow this practice, and it is almost always successful. In 1825, Mr. Wm. Cumin, of Glasgow, published some cases and observations in favour of this method. He made the puncture with a cataract needle. (See Edifi. Med. Journ. No. Ixxxiv. p. 95.) I have usually drawn the skin a little towards one side, and then made a small opening in the ganglion with a lancet. In the treatment of ganglions situated on tlie back of the wrist, Mr. Aston Key also prefers a small puncture. For those which occupy the base of the palmar side of the fingers, he considers the puncture the only remedy; for the cyst cannot be ruptured, and blisters rarely answer. (See Gufs Hospital Reports, vol. i. p. 416.) _ When ganglions become extremely inconve- nient, either by obstructing the functions of a joint or causing pain, they should be carefully dissected out by first making a longitudinal inci- siun in the skin covering them, then separating the cyst on every side from the contiguous parts', and, lastlj-, cutting every particle of it off the sub- jacent tendon or fascia. The operation being accomplished, the skin is to be brought together with sticking pla^^ter, and a compress placed over the situation of the tumor, with the view of healing the wound and the cavity hj adhesion. When the ganglion has burst, or is ulcerated, it is best to remove the diseased skin, together witli the cyst; and of course the incision must be oval, or circuliu-, as may seem most convenient. Die grand object is not to allow any particle of the cyst to remain behind, as it would be very likely to throw out a fungus, and prevent a cure. In Warner's Cases of Swyeri/ is an account of two considerable ganglions, which this gentleman, in imitation of Celsus and Paulas /Egmeta, tliought it right to extirpate. These had become adherent to the flexor tendons of the fingers. In the operation, he was obliged to cut the transverse ligament of the wrist; and the patients, who before could not shut their liands, nor close their fingers, perfectly re- gained the use of these parts. Mr. Gooch relates a case of the same kind, which had been occa- sioned by a violent bruise, three or four years be- fore. The tumor reached from the wrist to tlie middle of the hand, and created a groat deal of pain. Mv. Gooch extirpated it, and then restored the position of tiie hand, and free motion of tiie joint by the use of emollient npphcations, and