ANUS. 262 (idly Bceu cases in which the slighter incision has failed to cure the disease, and he therefore still practises the free division of the muscle in all cases in which an operation is required. It seems reasonable to suppose that the division of the muscular fibres becomes essential in pro- portion to the extent to which they are found spasmodically contracted. Some of the French surgeons have lately prac- tised forcible dilatation of the sphincter muscle. " The operator introduces his two thumbs into the rectum, and after having obtained a point-cfappui for his fingers against the tuberosities of the isclaia, he forcibly separates his thumbs until they come in contact with the internal surface of the tuberosi- ties. He experiences at first a resistance, then a sensation of internal laceration, and his two thumbs touch the bones." M. Nelaton " does not hesitate to say that this is certainly the best mode of treat- ing fissures of the anus " (see Elan, de Pathol. CJdr. torn. v. p. 80, 1858), a remark in which the majority of English surgeons are not very likely to coincide.] Excrescences of the Anus. These cases are frequent, the growths receiving a variety of names, according to their supposed resemblance to things, as condylomata, mariscae, and fici. Some are much firmer than others ; some of them grow, in consequence of irritation of the skin of the anus, by the contact of rancid se- cretions, or purulent matter. Others are origin- ally piles ; for, as Sir Benjamin Brodie observes, when the cavities of external piles become obli- terated, they generally form flaps of skin, which gradually waste ; but sometimes diseased action takes place in them, and they become converted into excrescences, similar to those which grow from the nymphffi of women. Many excrescences about the anus and perineum are of middling consist ence, between that of a wart and that of a polypus I have cured a great number by stimulating appli' cations, as the nitrate of silver, the tine, ferri mur., the acetic acid, and the powder of savine, blended with subacetate of copper, or a solution of the sulphate of copper. But, in general, I remove the larger kinds with a bistoury. The bleeding, which may be at first copious, does not generally require a ligature, as it stops as soon as lint or linen dipped in cold water and a T bandage have been applied. (See H^morehoids and Rectum.) Prolapsus Ani. See Rectum, Prolapsus of. Imperforate Anus. As it is of the utmost consequence that this and other malformations should not remain long un- known, one of the earliest duties of an accoucheur, after delivery, is the examination of nil the natural outlets of new-born infants. The place in which tlie extremity of the rectum, or the anus, ought to be, may be entirely, or partly, shut up by a membrane, or fleshy adhesion. In other instances, no vestige of the intestine can be found, as the skin retains its natural colour over the whole space between the parts of genera tinn and the os coccygis, without being more ole^ vatcd in one place tlian another. In these cases, the intestine sometimes terminates in one or two culs-di'.-sac, about an inch upward from the ordi nary situation of the anus. (See BaiUic's En gravings, fasc. iv. tab. v.) Sometimes it does not descend lower than the upper part of the sacrum; sometimes it opens into the bladder or vagina. Dr. Palmer dissected a case, where the colon, after reaching the vicinity of the left kidney, began, as it descended, to form a sigmoid flexure ; but pre- viously to its arrival at the conca\'ity of the left ilium, made a sudden turn to the right, and, cross- ing the psoas muscle, reached the projection of the sacrum, where it terminated, tvithoui entering ilie pelvis at all. With this malformation was com- bined an imperforate meatus urinarius, and other considerable deviations of the genital organs from their natural structure. (See Medico-Chir. Journ. vol. i. 8vo. Lend. 1816.) Sometimes the colon terminates in a sac, and the rectum is entirely deficient. (See Beauregard, in Journ. de Med. i. 66.) [Dr. Bushe records a case in which the rectum terminated by two extremities, both in the median line, one being a little anterior than natural, the other about an inch further back. The posterior was the smaller ot the two, and did not discharge more than one third of the faeces. {On Diseases of the Rectum, p. 44. New York, 1837.)] In cases of imperforate anus, if a speedy opening be not made for the fseces, the infants soon perish, with symptoms similar to those of a strangulated hernia. Mr. A. C. Hutchinson thinks it advan- tageous, however, not to operate till the expiration of from twenty-four to sixty hours after birth, as he conceives that, within this period, no great in- convenience will arise, and the distension of the rectum with meconium will be a guidance to the surgeon in making the incisions. (See Obs. in Surgery, ed. 2.) After ascertaining the complaint, which is an easy matter, the surgeon should en- deavour to learn, whether the anus is merely shut by portions of skin, a membrane, or a fleshy ad- hesion ; or whether the anus is altogether wanting, in consequence of the lower portion of the cavity of the gut being obliterated, or the rectum not extending sufficiently far down. When. merely a thin production of the skra closes the opening of the rectum, the part pro- ducing the obstruction is somewhat different m colour from the neighbouring integuments, being usually of a bluish or livid hue, in consequence of the accumulation of the meconium under it. The meconium, propelled downward by the viscera above, forms a small roundish prominence, which yields like dough to the pressure of the fingers, but immediately projects again when the pressure is removed. When a fleshy adhesion closes the intestine, the circumstance is obvious to the eye, if the part protrude, as is generally the case ; greater hardness and resistance are felt than when there is merely a membrane ; and the livid colour of the meconium cannot be seen through the obstructing substance. . , , i These last circumstances are of themselves enough to convince the surgeon of the necessity of an operation ; but they do not clearly show, whether the intestine descends as far as it ought, m order to form a proper kind of anus. Complete inform- ation on this point can only be acquired after the obstructing substance has been divided, or else after the child's death, when tlie operation h.ns proved inefteclual. Though tliere be no mark to denote where the anus ought to bo situated, and no degree of prominence, yielding, like soft dough, to