ment of the testicle, is well known under the name of hydro-iarcocele. " Here (as Sir Benjamin Brodie has remarked), there is local cause of irritation. The tumor of the testicle keeps up an increased secretion of fluid from the inner surface of the tunica vaginalis, just in the same manner as a solid tumor of any kind, projecting into the cavity of the abdomen, may lay the foundation of one kind of ascites, or as a medullary tumor of the lung, projecting into the cavity of the chest, may produce hydrothorax." {Loud. Med. Gaz. vol. xiii. p. 89.) In some in- stances of tliis disease its nature sometimes remains questionable, until the evacuation of the fluid gives the surgeon a fair opportunity of ascertaining the diseased state of the testicle. A hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis is sometimes divided into several distinct cells, or cavities, each of which requires to be opened to discharge its contents. The complication of a hydrocele of the tunicn vaginalis with an encysted one of the cord, may generally be known by the swellings having begun at two different points, and by a kind of constriction between them. The latter symptom is, however, not infallible, because the tunica va- ginalis of a common hydrocele is sometimes more or less constricted at the midule of the tumor, which is thus made to appear as if it consisted of two distinct pouches. While the two kinds of hydrocele have an interspace between them, they may readily be distinguished. Hydrocele, complicated with hernia, is chiefly seen in old subjects. The hydrocele is commonly situated in front of the hermn (see Sir A.Cooper, On the Testis, p. 175); but now and then, though very rarely, it glides behind it. (See Dupuytren, Clin. Cliir. t. iv. p. 450.) When the hernia lies in front of the hydrocele a portion of intestine, or omentum, sometimes passes through rents in the tissues covering the tunica vaginalis, and projects into the midst of the fluid of the hydrocele. These secondary tumors are covered by the hernial sac, and by the serous coat of the testicle. The combination of hydrocele with hernia should alwaj's be remembered in operations for this last disease in a state of strangulation, and also in tap- ping a hydrocele, especially as their relative situa- tion to one another is subject to variety. The surgeon must avoid plimging a trocar into a hernial sac ; cutting the coverings of a hydrocele instead of those of a hernia ; and dividing the ring when the bowel is strangulated in a laceration of the tunica vaginalis of a hydrocele. (See Dupuy- tren. op. cit. p. 452.) [As hydrocele is commonly met with, it is essen- tially chronic; but when the sj'mptoms have com- menced with inflammation it constitutes acute hy- drocele. The same changes then take place as in other serous membranes, namely exudation of lymph and senim, and the former may present a honeycomb appearance, as is noticed sometimes in the pericar- dium. Such cases have been described by Sir Benjamin Brodie, Curling, and others. In the museum of the London College of Surgeons is a preparation showing the effects of inflammation after the application of lunar caustic; ills figured in Mr. Curling's work on the Testis, p. 74. Another preparation of the same kind is preserved in the museum of the Dublin College of Surgeons, in which the inflammation arose from the passage of an instrument in a case of enlarged progtato. Mr. )CELE. ' 1041 Curling mentions that " inflammation of the tunica vaginalis is not only the most frequent disease of the testicle, but it is also one of the most common affections to which the body is liable. In some of the disorders of the gland, especially orchitis, this membrane usually becomes inflamed, and adhesions between its opposed surfaces are scarcely less common than those of the pleura." {Curling, op. cit. p. 76.)] Treatment op Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis. A hydrocele is' by no means a dangerous com- plaint, though from its weight and size it is a dis- agreeable incumbrance, and the patient is alwaj's obliged to wear a bag truss or suspensory bandage, in order to prevent a painful extension of the spermatic cord. Troublesome excoriations are also frequently caused by the friction of the tumor against the inside of the thigh; and when the swelling is very large, it draws over itself the integuments of the penis, which appears buried in the tumor, and the genital functions are seriously interrupted. Hence the greater number of patients are very anxious for relief. [It does not often happen that a hydrocele under- goes a spontaneous cure in adults, although this is a constant occurrence in infants. Mr. Pott has recorded two instances in the adult of confirmed hydrocele, which subsided without treatment. One was a gentleman, aged fortj'-five years, in whom the dropsical collection dispersed during six weeks' con- finement for a severe fit of gout. The other, a middle-aged man, who fell, whilst intoxicated, and struck his scrotum against a piece of scaffolding, which caused considerable ecchymosis. In a fort- night this had disappeared, and the hydrocele was found to be smaller. In tliree weeks the whole of it had subsidod, and it did not afterwards return. {Hce Pottos Chir. Works.) It is most probable that the sac was ruptured, and the cure eil'ected by in- flammation of the membrane, the result of the injury. The accidental rupture of a hydrocele by violence, however, does not always lead to a radical cure: one instance of this has been already cited of Sir B. Brodie; another is mentioned by Sir Astley Cooper, in which the fluid collected again; and another is quoted by him, in which the blow changed the hydrocele into a hsematocele. {On the Testis, op, cit. p. 177.) Sir B. Brodie also mentions that he has met with two examples of the spontaneous cure of hydrocele. In one of them the removal of the disease ap- peared to have resulted from inflammation set up in the sac. • (See Loud. Med. Gax. vol. xiii. p. 90.) A hydrocele has even been known to disappear permanently after an attack of orchitis, consequent upon the extension of inflammation from the ure- thra. But these cases are, as Mr. Curling re- marks, exceptions to the general rule, and are not to be taken into account in determining upon the treatment to be adopted.] The sur;iical methods of cure, though various are all reducible to two, viz. the palliative and the radical. One merely gives temporary relief by discharging the fluid, which commonly soon ac- cumulates again. The other aims at bringing about a complete and permanent cure. \_Tkepalliative iirn^Jiiew/consists of an e.^tremely simplu operation, and one of easy performance, and 3 X