368 operation is highly proper. The propriety of this practice, in such circumstances, was known to the ancient Romans ; for, by a decree of Numa Pom- pilius, no woman who died pregnant was suffered to be buried ere her body had been opened, with the view of preserving the infant for the use of the State. {Sprengel, Geschichte der Ghir. th. i. p. 371.) Experience has proved that when the foetus has not attained the period at which parturition com- monly happens, it will sometimes survive the operation a considerable time, and that when it is full grown its life may be most happily preserved. Although instances are cited in which the foetus in utero has been found alive upwards of four-and- twenty hours after the death of the mother, little stress should be laid on such prodigies. The operation ought to be done without any delay. Even then, we are not certain of saving the infant's life. In the greater number of instances, the foetus perishes at the same time with the mother, and from the same causes. The cases, which are re- corded of the foetus being extracted alive, after the death of the mother, are numerous: I shall here only refer to three, two of which rest on the unimpeachable authority of Flajani, who was him- self the operator. {Osservazioni, 8;c. di Chirurgia, t. iii. p. 144—146.) In one of these instances, the operation was done on a woman, killed by violence, in the ninth month of pregnancy ; the child lived six hours : in the other, a foetus was extracted from a woman who had died of typhus fever, in the seventh month, and though the opera- tion was not done till she had been dead about an hour, the child was taken out alive, and continued to live full ten minutes. A living child was also taken out of its mother by Vesling, after lier death from typhus. ( Wehch. Ohs. Med. Episagm. No. 74, p. 47; Sprengel, Geschichte der Chir. th. i. p. 374.) On the 15th of April, 1820, Mr. Green, of St. Thomas's Hospital, extracted by the Csesarean operation, from a woman suddenly killed in the ninth month of pregnancy by the passage of a stage coach over her, a fcetus that lived thirty-four hours after its removal from the uterus. (See Med. Chit: Trans, vol. xii. p. 46.) With respect to the state- ments of Cangiamila, a Sicilian practitioner, I join Sprengel in considering them as incredible exag- gerations : five instances are given in which the foetus was taken out of the mother from fifteen to twenty-four hours after her death, and yet it con tinued to live. Cangiamila says that, at Syracuse, in the course of eighteen years, the operation had been practised twenty times under the same cu- cumstances; that at Girgenti, thirteen children were saved out of twenty-two women, who had died pregnant ; and that, in twenty-four years, at Montereali, twenty-one children were preserved in the same manner. {Emhrijologia Sacra. Venct. 1763, fol.) As Sprengel remarks, one might almost suppose, from this account, that in Sicily pregnancy was generally fatal. If the mother should happen to die in labour, and the neck of the uterus were sufficiently dilated, or disposed to be so, an attempt should be made to ac- complish delivery in the ordinary way; for examples have occurred, in wliich women supposed to be dead in this circumstance, were in reality alive. Hence, we find that the Senate of Venice, in 160B, en- acted a law, by which practitioners were liable to punishment in case they neglected to operate witli as much caution on a pregnant woman supposed CiESAREAN OPERATION. to be dead as on the living subject; and rules to be observed were again issued by the same govern- ment in 1720. {Sev. Melli, La Commare levairice, p. 108. 4to. Venez. 1721; Persone, Diss, sopra fOperaz. Cesar, p. 15. 8vo. Venez. 1778.) A law to the same effect was likewise made in 1749, by the king of Sicily, who decreed the punishment of death to those medical men who omitted to per- form the Csesarean operation on such women as died in the advanced stages of pregnancy. The following case, confirming the propriety of such caution, was recorded by Rigaudeaux, surgeon to the Military Hospital at Douay. This practitioner having been sent for to a woman, to whose resi- dence he was unable to proceed till two hours after her apparent death, he had the sheet, with which she was covered, removed, and perceiving that the body retained its suppleness and warmth, he tried whether the fcEtus could not be extracted in the ordinary way, which was easily effected as soon as the feet were got hold of. The first endeavours to save the child were very unpromising ; but, after a few hours, they had the desired effect. As the woman continued in the same state five hours afterwards, Rigaudeaux recommended that she might not be buried before her limbs were quite cold and stiff. He afterwards had the satisfaction to learn that she was also restored to life. This remarkable case happened on the 8th of June, 1745, and both the mother and child were living at the period when Rigaudeaux published. (See Journ. de Savans, Aii. 1749.) Almost all the insurmountable obstacles to de- livery originate from the bad conformation of the pelvis, depending upon rachitis ; though they are not an invariable consequence of it, since there are women, extremely deformed, in whom no imperfec- tion of the pelvis exists, while it prevails in others whose shape is but trivially disfigured. An exa- mination of the dimensions of the pelvis is the right mode of ascertaining whether there is really such an impediment to parturition. [It becomes important therefore to determine what degree of distortion and consequent narrowing of the di- mensions of the pelvis would warrant the per- formance of this operation. Authorities differ considerably on this point. M. Velpeau gives the diameters of the pelvis in 62 cases. In 30 of these the antero posterior diameter was from two to two inches and three quarters, in the re- maining 32 from one inch to two inches. Dr. Simpson remarks that in the 30 cases in which the diameter was from two inches to two inches and three quarters the operation would not have been performed in this country. Amongst the latest authorities in Germany and France (see Maimal of Obstetrics by Dr. Tyler Smith, p. 608) we find Bash and Moser stating that the Ciesarean section is the only practical mode of delivery when the diameter of the pelvis is two inches and a quarter or less, and the Cresarean section is indicated when the child is alive if the diameter is from two and a quarter to three inches. Jacqucmier is of opniion that when the child is dead and the pelvis is below two inches in diameter hysterotomy is the only justifiable operation, or when, in the case of a live ciiild, it varies from two inches to two inches and a half Dr. Meigs states that he considers the Cesarean section inevitable in dinme'ers of an inch to an inch and a half, but that he should not hesi- tate when a patient was in imminent danijer to