I , FRACTURE So far as I am able to judge, Sir Astley Cooper lias been the means of introducing a grea^t deaf of d,scnmn,at,on ,nto this subject, a'nd, without his able exertions, the important differences in the nature, symptoms, and curableness of the yarious kinds of fractures of the neck and upper part of tlie thigh-bone, depending upon their exact situa- tion and direction, might yet have continued very imperfectly comprehended. This remark is made without any intention of deducting from the merits of Desault, Plainer, and Mr. John Bel], all of whom long ago expressed their opinion, which, as we know, extends rather beyond the bounds of ac- curacy, that a fracture within the capsular ligament would not admit of union by callus. (C. Dell On Injuries of lie Spine and Thigh-Bone, 4to. Lond. 1824, p. 52, &c.) Mr. Amesbury believes that all fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone admit of union, whether they be situated quite within the capsular ligament or not, and whether the reflected portion of that ligament be ruptured or not ; and he ascribes the usual want of success, not to the nature of the in- jury, nor to the insufficient circulation in the pelvic portion of the bone, but to the imperfection of the mechanical means employed in the treatment. As, however, the important point under consideration, namely, whether transverse fractures of the neck of the femur, situated entirely within the capsular ligament admit of bony union, is one that can only be determined by experience, Mr. Amesbury follows up his arguments by a reference to several cases. The first case adduced was under the cnre of Mr. Cnbbe of Holboin, and is described by Mr Langstaff, who has the preparation : " The woman was about fifty years of age when the accident occurred. The foot was everted, and there was shortening of the limb at this time; and, after death at was shorter than the other full two inches and a halt. She was confined to bed nearly twelve months : during the remainder of her life, which was ten years, she walked with crutches. This (says Mr. Langstaff, alluding to the preparation) 33 a specimen of fracture of the neck of the thigh- bone within the capsular ligament: the principal part of the neck is absorbed ; the head and re- maining portion of the neck were united principally by bone, and partly by a cartilaginous substance, ihe capsular ligament was immensely thickened, and embraced the joint very closely. The cartil- aginous covering of the head of the bone and aceta- bulum had suffered partial absorption ; the internal surface of the capsular ligament was coated with Jyniph. On making a section of the bono, it was evident that there had been a fracture of the neck mthin the capsular liyamcnt, and that union hud taken 'place hy osseous and cartilac/inons media." (bee J\fed. Chir. Trans, vol. xiii.) Mr. Amesbury then adverts to Dr. Brulatour's case, reported in tlie same volume of the latter work. The patient, iJr. James, died about nine months after the in- jur}'. The following appearances presented them- selves. 1. The capsule a little thickened. 2. ■1 he cotyloid cavity sound. 3. The interarticular ligament „, a natural state. 4. The nock of the emnr shortened : from the bottom of the head to and i-F ■ ^"■'■'^^ tr<"^l'antor was only four lines, trochnniT 'l'^.^'-""" P°int to the top of the small he necfr^" ""equal line surrounded ^"e neck, denoting the direction of the fracture. 6 At the bottom of the head of the femur, and at the external and posterior part, a considerable bony deposit had taken place. A section of the bone was made in a line drawn from the centre of he head of the lemur to the bottom of the grea trochanter, so as perfectly to expose the callus I he line of bone, indicated by the callus was smooth and polished as ivory. The line of callus denoted also that the bottom of the head of the pacts'" ^'"^^^ ""P"'"'" '""^ posterior In another example, communicated to Mr Amesbury by Mr. Chorley of Leeds, a gentleman died twelve months after the accident, and on examining the hip. the synovial covering was lound united with the shortened neck of the bone nearly at the head. Plere nature had also thrown out broad ligamentous bands, one on each side of the joint. They were firmly united to the head of the bone. When the soft parts had been removed, the head of the bone was seen depressed in a line with the shaft. The fracture was slightly oblique commencing at the upper part close against the cartilaginous covering of the head of the bone, and extending downward and outward, so as to termi- nate in a point at the lower surface of the neck one inch from the cartilaginous covering of the' head. The posterior surface of the shell of the neck had the appearance of having been splintered so as to make a part of the fractured end of the' pelvic portion extend in one situation a little on the outside of the capsular ligament, and where no union had taken place. In a fourth instance, where the necks of both thigh-bones had been broken at different periods the parts were examined after the patient's decease' Un the right side, the fracture extended throu<-h the neck of the bone, in a direction downward and outward. In one part a portion of the reflected membrane remained entire; but was separated from the neck of the bone in such a manner as not to prevent the retraction of the limb. The head of the bone was somewhat excavated ; and that portion of the nock attached to the trochanter was partially absorbed. There was no soft substance between the surfaces of the fracture. A bond of union, however, consisting of fibrinous matter, adhered to the sides of the ends of the fracture, and in one part it was strong. No surgical at- tempt had been made to unite the fracture on the right side. On the left, the neck of the bone had been broken within the capsule, and was firmly united. The cervix was nearly absorbed ; and the head was depre.-scd, so as to come within about two lines of the trochanter minor, to which it was united at its base by a small short process of bone. Strong bands of ligament were seen connecting the pelvic portion of bone to the capsnio, which had become thickened, and much smaller than natural. There had been a longitudinal fracture of the trochanter major, but quite independent of the injury of the cervix. The fracture of the latter part wna united with the head, about two inches and a half below its natural situation ; which loads Mr. Amesbury to believe, that what he terms the close coverings of the neck of the bone had been nearly or quite divided. A longitudinal section of the head and neck of the bone showed that the fracture had taken place close to the head. Tlie uniting callus had become cancellated; hut he says that the direction of the fracture could be