898 twentietli day. In this case neither stupor nor paralysis appeared. In another a musket-ball had struck tiie right parietal bone, fractured it, and was flattened, and lodged between the tables of the skull. The inner table was much depressed, yet no bad sjmiptoms supervened." (See Thomson's Ohs. made in the Military Hospitals in Belgium, p. 59, CO.) The same author also saw a singular case, in which a ball, entering behind the right temple, and passing backwards and downwards, had fractured the bones in its passage, and lodged on the surface of the brain, over the tentorium, from which place it was extracted on the seven- teenth day after the injury. No bad symptom had manifested itself previously to the operation; and the man recovered under the strictest anti- phlogistic regimen, with little or no constitutional derangement. Dr. Hennon has recorded two cases, fully proving the correctness of Mr. Abernethy's opinions, about the impropriety of using the trephine in cases of depression unattended with urgent symptoms : in one of these instances the upper and posterior angle of the parietal bone, which had been struck by a musket-ball, was depressed exactly an inch and a quarter from the surface of the scalp, yet no had symptoms foUoived, and witli the aid of bleeding and other antiphlogistic remedies, the soldier recovered perfectly in a few weeks. " In a similar case, where the man survived thirteen years, with no other inconvenience than occasional determination of blood to the head on hard drink- ing, a funnel-like depression to the depth of an inch and a half was formed in the vertex." (See Hennen's Military Surgery, p. 287, ed. 2.) If then the violence of the symptonia is not always in proportion to the compression, but is sometimes considerable when the pressure is slight, every surgeon cannot be too fully impressed with the following truth, that existing symptoms of dan- gerous piressure on the brain, which symptoms will be presently related, can alone form a true reason for perforating the cranium. Although the doctrines of Sir Astley Cooper, gener.illy speaking, coincide very much with the preceding maxim, which I regard as a verj' im- portant one, there is an exception to it in his advice, in relation to compound fractures of the skull, as will be understood from the following passage. " The old practice used to be, the mo- ment an injury of the brain was suspected, and the least depression of the bone appeared, to make an incision into the scalp. This is putting the patient to considerable hazard ; for the simple fracture ■would, by the incision, be rendered compound. In simple fracture, then, when it is attended with symptoms of injury of the brain, deplete before you trephine ; and when it is unattended with such symptoms, deplete merely, and do not divide the scalp, &c. If the fracture be compound, the treatment nuist be very difl'erent, because a com- pound fracture is very generally followed by in- flammation of the brain ; and it will be of little use to trephine, when inflammation is once pro- duced. If tlie inflammation come on, the patient will generally die, whether you trephine or )U)t;" and it is added that the operation will even be likely to increase the inflammation, which has been excited by a depressed portion of the skull. "The rule (says Sir Astley) which I always fol- low, is this: when I am called to a compound fracture, with depression, which is exposed to view. HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. whether symptoms of injured brain exist or not, I generally use an elevator, and very rarely the tre- phine, I put the elevator under the bone, raise it, and, if it has been comminuted, remove the small portions of bone." {Lectures, S;c. vol. i. p. 304, 308.) Of the propriety of using the elevator in such cases, and also of taking away loose fragments, there cannot be a doubt; but many surgeons ob- ject (and I confess myself one of the number) to saw out a portion of the skull while the patient is free from urgent symptoms. I believe, also, that the inflammation, when it does arise, is mostly the effect of the violence itself, not of the depression of the bone, and, therefore, more likelj' to be increased than prevented by the application of the trephine. I think a better reason for elevating the bone, when it is exposed, and there are no bad symptoms, is the fact, that many patients, after their recovery from the imminent danger of the accident, become subject, whenever the circulation is hurried, to in- sanit}^, or epilepsy, or remain in a state of hebe- tude, with dilated pupils, and more or less impair- ment of some of the external senses, as the 63-6- sight, &c. (See Case hy H. Larrey, in Hist. Chir. du Siege de la Citadelle d'Anvers, p. 114.) Yet here it is to be considered, that it may be quite time enough to trephine when such ills follow the continuance of the depression, and that, perhaps, the operation would then be in itself less dangerous, inasmuch as the tendency to inflammation, arising from the first violence, must then have subsided. Much would depend, however, upon the frequencj- and severitj' of the fits, and the degree of annoy- ance and suffering ; for, as M. H. Larrej' well ob- serves, the result of an operation would be doubtful, and it might even prove fatal. (Op. cit. p. 116.) The view of this part of the subject, taken bj' M. Velpeau, does not exactly coincide with that enter- tained by Abernethy. " The cases (says he) of recovery, notwithstanding a depression to the depth of an inch, or an inch and a half, as recorded by numerous former observers, by no means prove that in such examples trepanning is never useful. The same remark applies to the cases brought forward in modern times by Dorsey, Dupuytren, Paillard, Graefe, &c. These instances must all, or nearly all, have been fixed depressions, without any great inequalities internally, or manifest lacera- tion of textures. Most of them had given rise to but slight symptoms of compression, and many of them to none at all. The case of a rich banker mentioned by Dupuytren, and who is still living with the bone depressed, although the injury took place many years ago, forms a kind of exception. I know (observes M. Velpeau) that it is not the only one ; but these are rare cases, on which it would be dangerous to laj' a foundation. For one patient thus saved, ten would perish who might be preserved. I saw a woman who had a depression on the frontal bone half an inch deep, and whom I deemed it improper to operate upon, because she had no alarming symptoms. Yet, at the end of six weeks, she died of inflammation and suppuration of the anterior part of the brain. Would this have happened had she been trepanned ? " {De VOper. du Trepan, p. 57.) I believe few surgeons in London would have any difliculty in replying, that if the operation liad been performed, the result might, or might not, have been the same. It seems to me, also, that when si! )is of suppuration under the crnnium first pre-