774 FURUNCULUS, success may be imputed to the optic nerve and other parts being almost always in a morbid state before an attempt is made to remove the eye. One case, however, described by Mr. Travels as having its seat in the cellular texture connecting the conjunctiva to the cornea, was operated upon, and no recurrence (^f the disease had occurred a twelvemonth afterwards. No other texture was affected more than tlie contiguity and extent of the disease explained. (Spiopsis, dv. p. 413.) The most successful extirpation of an eye in an ad- vanced stage of this disease, and perhaps almost the only satisfactory ,one at present on record, is that which was performed by Mr. Wishart, the €ure remaining complete eighteen months after the operation. (See Edin. Med. Jaurn. vol. xix. p. .51.) Donega operated in another case, as is alleged, with success. The disease had existed six weeks; and the patient was an infant, twenty months old. (See Panizza, Std Fungo Midollare deW Occhio. Pavia, 1826.) Some observations have been made by Mr. Lawrence on these cases, tending to raise a doubt of their having been examples of fungus hsematodes. {On Diseases of iU Eye, p. C23.) The operation has nearly always been found to fail when the disease is advanced so far that the posterior chamber is filled by the fungous mass. With the very few exceptions which there are to this statement, it may be correctly said that, as no internal medicines nor external applications afford the least hope of checking any form of the fungus hajmatodes, it is manifest that, when the distemper of the eye exceeds certain bounds, the miserable patient is placed beyond the reach of any effectual aid from surgery. In a case which I saw in April, 1821, in the London Eye Infirmary, the disease formed a mass as large as an orange, ac- companied with enlarged lymphatic glands over he parotid. The patient^was an infant. In this instance, Mr. Lawrence used, as a local application, the_ liquor opii sedativus, prepared by Battle)-, which was found to lessen considerably the child's Bufferings. '&^%Wardrop'^ Obs. on Fungus H.Kmatorles. Scarpa, on the Principal Diseases of the Eye, chap. 21. Saun- ders, on IJiseases of the Eye; and B. Traverses Synop- sis of the Diseases of the Eye; 8vo. Loud. 1820. G. Flick, on Diseases of the Eye ; 8vo. Lond. 1826. W. Lawrence, on Diseases of the Eye; 8vo. Lond. 1833. R. Middlemore, on Diseases of the Eye, vol. ii. 8vo. Lond. 1835. W. Mackenzie, on Diseases of the Lye; 8vo. Lond. 1835. Panizza, sul Fungo Midollare doll' Uccliio. Pavia, 1826. Wishart, in Edin. Med. and burgical Journ. vol. xix. Under the terms Bronchocele, Mamma, Testicle, and Tumor, will be found descrip- tions of fungus ha;uiatodes, or medullary sarcoma, m organs not particularly noticed in the preceding article. See Dissertations on Inflammation, hyj. Burns, voL " ^'■"ctical Obs. in Surgery, ed. 3. John Mernvth,, Surgical Obs. Svo. Loud. 1804. G. Freer, ";',^"fU''sm, 1807. Obs. on Fungus Ha;matodes, or holt Cancer, by .Tmncs Wardrop; 8vo. Edin. 1809. 1 lis last publication is liigrhly deservinff of attention ; amlTtcM"' '".'''"e'-cn.t organs beiuff well described caiice,- discriminated from tliat of scirrhous M^d''TnnI^n ,'i'S'''»s<= ;s i-elnted in vol. v. of the Lond. to cure nwi; "f^ consequence of an attempt fata" X5 n'Pa'is of a seton, and it proved JJiaease "^"^f^f/l'seiscaTesticle, accompanied with »<-ase Of the Lungs and Urain, by H. Earle, in Medico-Chirurg. Trans, vol. iii. p. 59, &c. in which vol. four otlier cases are recorded by Mr. Lawrence p. 71, et seq. and one by Mr. Lanqslaff, p. 277- which last 1 remember to have visited in companv with tins gentleman and Mr. Lawrence, a short time before the patient died. Also Langnlaff's Ca.ses and Obs. ill the 8tli and 9th vols, of the same work. Ph J. P.OUOC, Voyage fait a Londres en 1814 ; ou Purallfele de la Chirurgie Angloise avec la Chirurgie Francoise, p. 211, &c. Dupnytren, Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 53. Wm. Kerr, M.D., in Cyclopa;dia of Practical Medicine, iaemiec, Diet, des Sciences MM., art Enc^phaloides. C. Ben, Surgical Obs. part. iv. Hodqkin, in Med. Clnr. Trans, vol. xv. Robert Carswell, in Illustra- tions of the Elementary Forms of Disease, fasciculi 2 & 3 4to Lond. 1833. Andral, Anat. Pathol, t. xi. p. 219. J.J. LoMein, Anat. Pathol, t. xi. p. 419 Cruvetlher, Anat. Pathol, liv. iv.-viii.; and Essai sur P Anat. Pathol. 1.1. James Copland, M.D.. Diet, of Practical Med. art Fungoid Disease, 8vo. 1837. FURUNCULUS (from furo, to rage.) A boil, so named from the violence of the heat and inflammation attending it. A peculiar inflam- mation, beginning, as Dupuytren believed, in one or more of the prolongations of the interareolar cel- lular tissue of the cutis. A boil is a circumscribed, very prominent, hard, deep red, inflammatory swelling, which is exceed- ingly painful, and commonly terminates in slow and imperfect suppuration. The figure of the tumor is that of a cone, the base of which is con- siderably below the surface of the skin. Upon the most elevated point of the boil a small whitish speck presents itself, between the fourth and the eighth day. After the apex of the tumor has turned white, it softens, and then a verj- small aperture is formed in it, from which a little pus mixed with blood, is discharged, and within which a portion of dead cellular tissue, the core, may be perceived. By Dupuytren, and other French pa- thologists, the manner in which this is produced is explained as follows: a boil is only an inflam- mation of the prolongations of cellular tissue, which penetrate between the areola; of the cutis, accompanied by the vessels and nerves, distributed to the surface of the skin. With this inflammation is combined that of the cutis itself, and conse- quently these cellulo-vascular and nervous pro- longations suffer constriction, partly from their own enlargement, and partly from the increased narrowness of the openings through which they pass. Hence their nutrition is interrupted, and they are converted into a slough, called the cnre. (See AL Solon, in Diet, de Med. el de Chir. Pra- ticpios, art. Furoncle; also Dupuytren, in Clin. Chir. t. iv. p, 210.) The complaint is not attended with fever, except when the tumor is larger than usual, situated on a sensible part, or when several boils occur at the same time in diiYereut places. In the last cir- cumstance they often produce in children, and even in irritable adults, restlessness, loss of appe- tite, spasms, &c. When boils are situated in the perinajum, between the anus and the scrotum, there may be difliculty in making water. Some- times, when placed on the nape of the neck, shoulder, or thigh, they excite inflammation of the lymphatic vessels and ghiiids of the neck, armpit, or groin. (See Payer, Mai. dc la Peau, t. ii. p. 548.) They rarely exceed a pigeon's egg in size, and may originate on any part of the body, though it is most common for them to take place on the nates, the thighs, the armpit, the nape of the neck, the back, and in other regions where the skin is