1056 HYDROPHOBIA. to cases in wliich tlie interval is alleged to have been 18,20, and even 30 years. It is certainly diffi- cult to attach any credit to these very late periods of attack, [but so many well-authenticated cases exist in which the disease has broken out after an incubation of many months, tliat it is difficult to fix the precise period at which all fear of the out- break can be dismissed.] Exposure to the heat of the sun, violent emotions of the mind, and fear, are believed to have considerable influence in accelera- ting the commencement of the symptoms. That mental alarm is also of itself sometimes capable of bringing on a simple hydropliobia, totally uncon- nected with infection, is incontestable, a case which has not always been duly discriminated. A most convincing proof of this fact is recorded by Barbantini, in the Italian Journal of Physic. Che- mistry, ^c. for Jan. and Feb. 1817. A young man was bitten by a dog which he fancied was mad, and on the 5th day he evinced symptoms of hydro- phobia, of wliich he was nearly dying,when the dog which had bitten him was shown to him, perfectly well, and the intelligence tranquillised him so effec- tually that he was quite well four days afterwards. Mr. John Hunter is said to have mentioned in his lectures a very similar case, in which he believed the patient would certainly have died if the dog which inflicted the bite had not been found, and shown to the patient, perfectly well. (See Journ. gen. de Med. t. xli. p. 215.) It is to the effects of terror that several modern writers are disposed to refer the instances of attacks of hydrophobic symp- toms, very long after the period when the patients were bitten, though, unless the intellect be changed in the meantime by other causes, it is difficult to conceive why the alarm should not have the greatest effect earlier, while the impression of tlie danger is undiminished by time. [The frequent concurrence of some exciting cause of the disease appears ver\' evident fiom the examination of modern recorded cases, which usually are more carefully observed, and therefore more reliable than those of the earlier writers. One patient appeared to bring on the attack by exposure to wet, and another by eating fish having a strong odour. He continued talking of this food throughout his sickness, and just before his death vomited a portion of it. Four were taken with the disease immediately after drunken revels. In one instance, witnessing the execution of a murderer ; in another, a fall ; in another (a child), fright from seeing some one playing the ghost, ushered in the attack. Again, a patient struck his foot against a nail with such a force that he nearly fainted from the pain. Immediately the precursory pain arose in the limb. This is a point of some practical importance, and points to the propriety of a person, in danger of hydrophobia, leading a quiet life, avoiding all excesses, and, as far as may be, sources of anxiety and alarm. {Rudclife and Smith, Inc. cit.)] The idea that the symptoms begin sooner after the bite of a wolf than that of a dog, is not adopted by a writer who has taken great pains to collect information on the present interesting disorder, (bee Did. des Scienc s Mid. t. xlvii. p. 77.) [Dr. Mason Good inclnied to the belief that rabies, resul- ting frdui the bite of a cat—of whicii he made a distinct variety, rabies ftlina—was of a milder form than that from the bite of a dog. But Marochetti, Christison, PickelU {Sanitary Review, Jan. 1858), and Coiles were of a directly opposite opinion.] Cullen has divided the disease into two »tageg the hydrophobia simplex and rahiosa, or the me- lancholy and raving stages of some other writers. But as the early stage is frequently unattended with anything like melancholy, it is best merely to adopt the distinction of t\\sfirst and second stages —one comprehending the effects of the disorder pre-; vionsly to the occurrence of a dread of, or decided aversion to, liquids; the otlier, the subsequent changes. The wound, if treated by common me- thods, usually heals up at first in a favourable manner. At some indefinite period, and occasion- ally long after the bitten part seems quite well, a slight pain begins to be felt in it or the neighbour- ing parts, now and then attended with itching, but generally resembling a rheumatic pain. If the bite took place on the finger, the pain successively ex- tends from the hand to the fore-arm, arm, and shoulder, without any redness or swelling in these parts, or any increase of suffering from pressure or motion of the limb. In a great number of in- stances, the trapezius muscle, and the neck on the same side as the bite, are the points to which the pain principally shoots. The cicatrix, in the mean- while, sometimes begins to swell,inflames, and often festers, and discharges an ichorous matter. These uneasy, painful sensations recur from time to time, and usually precede my dread of water several days, and the)'' are a just reason for appreliension. Sometimes pains of a more flying, convulsive kind are felt in various parts of the body. As the di sease advances, the patient complains of the pai shooting from the situation of the bite towards th region of the heart. Sometimes, instead of pain there is rather a feeling of heat, a kind of tingling or even a sensation of cold extending up to th chest and throat. Occasionallj' no local symptom take place; thus Sabatier, in giving an account o several cases, remarks it as worthy of notice tha the bitten parts did not become painful previousl to the accession of the fatal symptoms, nor did an swelling or festering occur. (See Mem. de I'ln sdtut National, t. ii. p. 249, &c.) [In fourtee cases in which hydrophobia occurred with th wound not closed, the surface of the wound was seve times of a health)' appearance, and on the point o slowly healing. During the progress of the diseas" it usuall)' became dry and painful. In two case out of the fourteen it was nearly closed, once i was black and dry, four times painful and swollen Of ninety-five cases in which a detaili'd descrip tion is given of the cicatrix; in sixty-si-x instances i had a normal appearance; five times no sensatio whatever was noted; once it was extremely sens' tive to pressure; seven limes it was inflamed; nin times it presented a reddish or blue tint, but wa painless; once it was vcrj' dark; once wliite, bu with vascular streaks; once marked liy ecchynioses once projecting; once "ill-looking," but not dis colored. In all but four cases the suirnundin parts were apparently healthy. Of these, in tw the glands of the groin were healthy; once th lymphatics were inflamed which led from t" wound; and once the bitten arm became livid.] Dr. Marcet particularly observes that the pain fo lows the course of the nerves rather than that of tho absorbents. In the case which he has relaied, as well as in one of the cases detailed by Dr. Bn- bington, there was pain in tlie arm and shoulder but without any affection of the axillary glands; and in the other case (see Medical Communic(Utons