HYDROCELE. 1038 If troublesome from its size, acupuncture or the trocar may be applied either at tlie back or the side of the hydrocele, in order to avoid wounding the testicle, the exact situation of which should first be ascertained. The relief sometimes proves perma- nent, as in a case related by Curling (p. 141), but more generally the fluid collects, and it becomes necessary to employ other means of effecting a radical cure, and iodine does this. The seton in the hands of many surgeons has not answered, and is now abandoned. When there are small cysts, one only at a time should be operated upon, and the result watched before meddling with the others. A curious case of the kind is recorded in the work of the last named author.] Hydhocele op the Tunica Vaginalis, or common hydrocele, is an accumulation of fluid in the cavity of this membrane, without any open communication existing between such cavity and that of the peritoneum. If this communication pre- vailed, the disease would be termed congenital hydro- cele, which is less frequently noticed. [Common hydrocele, or dropsy of the tunica vagi- nalis, is a purely local affection, resulting from a dis- turbance of the nicely-adjusted balance between the functions of secretion and absorption. The same general causes which give rise to effusion in other serous membranes no doubt operate occasionally in hydrocele; but besides these, the exposed and de- pending situation of the testicle, the liability of its vessels to obstruction, and the irregular exercise of its functions, will account for the frequency of this affection. Sir Astley Cooper looked upon common hydrocele as the result of relaxation in the arteries and veins, rather than the effect of inflammation. {Sir A. Cooper, On the Structure, ^c. of Hie Testis, p. 17C.) A varicose state of the spermatic veins is believed by Ruysch and Rokitansky to be a cause of hydro- cele, but although these veins are sometimes vari- cose in patients afflicted with hydrocele, the latter affection more frequently exists without the con- dition of the veins specified; so that it cannot be regarded as a cause of the effusion of fluid in the tunica vaginalis. Violent strains or great fatigue, or a slight blow on the gland occasionally give rise to hydrocele. In many such cases the effusion is attributed to a low degree of inflammation of the tunica vaginalis. Mr. Curling has observed marks of previous inflammation in the sacs of hydro- celes. In some few instances this surgeon has met with hydrocele imder circumstances which lead him to suspect that the disease was connected with, or sympatlietic of, a chronic affection of the nrethra, as stricture and morbid irritation in the canal. Loose, accidental bodies in the tunica vaginalis give rise to hydrocele, from the irritation they produce. Although disturbed states of the circulation, from disease of the heart, commonly give rise to eft'usion in other serous cavities, it is but seldom that hy- drocele is produced by it. In cases of general anasarca, however, slight effusion has been met with by Mr. Curling and other writers.] In most instances a hydrocele takes place with- out any evident cause, though, in a few cases, it has appeared to be the effect of a contusion, or of rough long-continued friction of the scrotum. The disease is observed to affect persons of the best health, and most robust constitution, as well as others; and its existence seems quite unconnected ■with dropsy or debility. In short, it may be re- garded as a disease entirely of a local nature. Its production is so slow and gradual, and at the same time so void of pain, that the patient seldom at- tends to it vnuil it is of some size. Sometimes, however, it is produced very suddenlj', and soon attains considerable magnitude. [Hydrocele is a disease which occurs in persons of all ages, and in all ranks in life, and in most climates, but is especially frequent in warm coun- tries. It is observed in newly-born children (Poll, and others) and young infants, and is then usually of the congenital form; but is perhaps more common at the middle period of life. Velpeau found twenty-seven persons, out of sixty cases of hydro- cele, affected between the ages of thirty and fifty. (La Fresse Medicale, Mai 1837.) In 1000 cases of hydrocele, treated by iodine injection, at the native hospital of Calcutta, none of the pa- tients were less than eighteen years of age; 214 were from eighteen to twenty-five years; 473 were from twenty-six to thirty-five; 257 from thirty-six to forty-five; and 56 from forty-six to seventy. {Gazette Medicale de Paris, tom. xvi. 1838, p. 561.)] The fluid of hydrocele is usually transparent, and of an amber, pale yellow, citron, or straw colour, and resembles the serum of the blood; but sometimes it is thick and dark coloured from the admixture of blood. Its specific gravity is usually about 1024, and it contains albumen and salts in varying proportions. Occasionally a quantity of flabby matter, or flocculent albumen, is found float- ing on the fluid; and in old people it frequently' contains an abundance of cholesterine, in the form of a multitude of minute shining particles. [The quantity of serum present is usually eight or ten ounces, but it varies considerably. Mr. Curling says in this country it seldom exceeds twenty ounces, though it has been known to amount to several pints (he has met with forty- eight ounces in one case). Mr. Cline removed from Gibbon, the historian, as much as six quarts. (Sir A. Cooper's Lectures, by Tyrrel, vol. ii. p. 92.) This was the largest Sir Astley Cooper had heard of. A hydrocele has been seen of such a magnitude that it hung down to the knees. {Sir B. Brodie, in Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xiii. p. 89.) Dr. J. G. Davey met with a case in Ceylon, in which the hydrocele was hardly smaller than the body of a robust child. It reached far below the knees, its diameter being so great as to interfere very materially with progression. It was only partially evacuated on the first tapping, and about a gallon of fluid was withdrawn. {Brit. Med. Jour. 1857, p. 593.) Of 1000 cases of hydro- cele which occurred at the native hospital ot Cal- cutta, in a table constructed by Dr. Dujat, the quantity of serum evacuated varied-from less than ten to upwards of one hundred ounces. Of 370 cases of double hydrocele, the fluid was more abundant on the right side in 109, and on the left side in 128. Of the 630 cases of single hydrocele, in rather more than a third of the number the quan- tity of fluid was under ten ounces; in two-sevenths it was from ten to nineteen ounces; in nearly a third, from twenty to fortj'-nine; and in eighteen cases the quantity of serum was from fifty to hundred and twenty ounces. Dr. Jones records an instance of hydrocele in his work on Surgery, which contamed two gallons of fluid. (See System of Surgery, by Samuel D. Gr6i/>, M.D. vol. ii. 1859, p. 944.)