AMPUTATION. F 4 support the weight of his body on the extremity of the stump ; after amputation of the thigh or leg, if the artilicial limb is properly constructed, he will never be called upon to do so. Besides this, after a lapse of time, the thick cushion of muscle loft in flap amputations degenerates or is absorbed, and the ultimate thickness of the covering differs very little, if at all, in the two cases. It has been ob- jected, on the other hand, to flap amputations that the size of the wound is greater ; that more arteries are divided, or that the same artery may be di- vided in two places, that they are divided obliquely instead of transversely, and that the hemorrhage therefore is more serious and more difficult to be arrested. With respect to the first of these objec- tions, namel3', the greater size of the wound, its truth is somewhat doubtful, in fact if the whole surface were accurately measured in two equal-sized limbs, operated upon by the two methods, and if, in the circular method, the entire area of the reflected integument were added to that of the cut extremities of the muscles, the advantage in point of size might even, as was stated by Mr. Listen, be found to be on the side of the flap operation. The majority of surgeons, however, will be disposed to admit the second objection, that there is a greater tendency to hemorrhage, and a greater difiiculty in restraining it. It is not that more vessels are divided, or that the same vessel is often divided in two places, as has been stated ; but more vessels require ligature, be- cause they are divided obliquely, and are not so favourably circumstanced for retraction within their sheath, and contraction of their open orifices as when they are divided transversely. Hemorrhage a few hours after the operation is also, and for the same reason, much more frequent with the flap than with the circular method, and it was, in fact, as Sir G. Ballingall observes, to remedy this incon- venience, and to afford facilities for dealing with this sort of secondary hemorrhage, that the practice arose of not bringing the flaps together till some hours after the patient had been placed in bed. Those who speak of additional hemorrhage from the same artery when divided in two places, have overlooked the obvious fact, that however often it may be cut through, it can not possibly bleed ex- cepting from the one orifice which is nearest to the centre of the circulation. The truth in this, as in most other controversies, has been found to lie between the two extremes, and Mr. Fergusson's comparison of the two methods is worthy of notice, on account of the impartial way in which he recognises the merits of the cir- cular method, although he himself advocates and almost invariably performs flap amputation. He says, " If a circular operation is improperly per- formed, the whole catalogue of evils may result; but the same may ensue from the method by flap.' I do not here speak from conjecture, for I have seen as thorough protrusion of bone after a flap operation as after a circular. If in the circular the incisions are made directly down to the bone — no adequate provision being made for covering its cut end, or if the operator has failed in doing so, then there is no calculating what may follow: if, by the other operation, the flaps are not well made, — too short, and selected from improper parts of the limb — the same evils may ensue. In short, in so far as my experience goes, the evils resulting from one operation maybe as great as from the other, accord- ing to the manner in which each is performed, the 71 nature of the coverings, the condition of the parts, or of the constitution; and all, too, must be the re- sult of a badly performed operation by either mode. The latter circumstance constitutes, I believe, the niain part of the dift'erence between the two, as a circular operation is much more likely to be ill- done than one by flap; it is in fact a more difficult proceeding, or at all events there is a greater chance of a mistake occurring in the one than in the other." " I deem it" (the circular method) "inferior to the other as regards its execution, but think that it re- mains to be proved, whether when equal skill and pains are bestowed, and the same mode of dressing is applied to each, the results are so very different as some modern authorities would lead us to be- lieve." {Pract. Surg. 3rd ed. p. 197, 198.) Mr. South says, " I have performed about an equal number of each, and the result has been so nearly the same, that in most cases I hardly think one method is to be preferred to the other." (Trans- lation of Chelius, vol. ii. p. 903.) Mr. Skey is inclined to prefer the circular method. He says, " I ain much disposed to believe that for purposes of utility and for power of resistance against pressure, the stump made by the circular operation will, in the end, be found preferable." {Op. Surg. p. 323.) And he further says, " My colleague, Mr. Stanley, who has frequently adopted the flap operation, has almost entirely abandoned it, as have also Mr. Lawrence, and Mr. Bransby Cooper." We have given these quotations from several re- centauthorities, with the viewof showing thepresent state of professional opinion on this controverted question, and have only further to add, that no judicious surgeon should commit himself to an ex- clusive preference for either one or the other method: It is his duty to acquaint himself thoroughly with the most approved methods of performing hoth, and to adopt whichever may appear to be best suited to the circumstances of each particular case. In many situations, and especially in amputating through the joints, the flap operation is decidedly to be preferred, and in the continuity of the limbs. It may sometimes possess superior advantages. Per- haps the most favourable case for the circular method is when the amputation is performed im- mediately after an accident, and when the skin is freely movable on the muscles beneath, and can be readily retracted or reflected ; while the flap opera- tion is often more convenient in cases of chronic dis- ease, where the parts have become adherent to each other, and are rigid and immovable from infiltration with lymph. In the latter case the rigidity, which would render a circular operation more difficult enables the flaps to be cut with greater regularity and precision.] ° ■' Op Amputation through the Joint.s, or Disarticulation.] amnmnS'" "."T" "^^''^'^y t^^mi i" ordinary ampu ations o determine beforehand the exact situation for the incisions, and a more correct ana- tomical appreciation of the parts is required _lo a surgeon well acqt.ainted with anatomy, the neighbouring prominences of bone will allord the necessary landmarks, and will enable him to deter- mine with precision the exact situation of the ar- ticular nitcrspaco, and, this being ascertained, to decide upon the position and direction of his inci- sions. To perform these operations creditably a