1 HERNIA. ligament, between the ligament and the intestine (an evident proof, says Gimbernat, that there was no strangulation there) ; he then made a very isuperficial incision from above downwards into ithe thickest part of the ligament to its lower edge; land, without cutting quite through it, he continued ihis incision about an inch. He rested the back of the scalpel upon his linger, which served as a ; guide to the instrument, and, at the same time, as I a defence to the intestine. The incision, however, Shaving been continued for an inch, would, as I Gimbernat remarks, inevitably cut the internal ' edge of the crural arch. Now, cutting this, only : for a few lines, gives sufficient room for the easy : reduction of the parts, and there is no necessity to ■. touch the ligament (Poupart's),as it never occasions : the strangulation. {Gimbernat, p. 27.) Gimbernat's method of dividing the stricture, iin cases of femoral hernia, is now frequently re- ! garded as the safest and most effectual. " Intro- <duce, along the internal side of the intestine, a (canulated or grooved sound with a blunt end, and .-a channel of sufficient depth. This is to be di- irected obliquely inwards, till it enter the crural 1 ring, which will be known by the increased re- isistance; as also, when its point rests upon the : branch of the os pubis. Then suspend the in- : troduction; and keeping the sound (with your left i hand, if you are operating on the right side, and '. V. V.) firmly resting upon the branch of tlie os ! pubis, so that its back shall be turned towards the ; intestine, and its canal to the symphysis pubis, introduce gently with your other hand, into the , groove of the sound, a bistoury, with a narrow blade : and blunt end, till it enter the ring. Its entry will be known, as before, by a little increase of resistance. Cautiously press the bistoury to the end of the canal; and employing your two hands at once, carry both instraiments close along the branch to the body of the os pubis, drawing them out at the same time. By this easy operation, you will divide the internal edge of the crural arch (Gimbernat's ligament) at its extremity, and with- I in four or five lines of its diiplicature; the remainder I continuing firmly attached by the inferior band, or I pillar, of which it is tlie continuation. This simple ) incision being thus made, without the smallest \ danger, the internal border of the arch, which ! forms the strangulation, will bo considerably re- I la-ted, and the parts will be reduced with the ! greatest ease. {Gimbernat, pp. 46, 46.) Mr. Lav/rcnce thus executes Gimbernat's plan; — j " It will generally be practicable (says he) to in- ' troduce the tip of the finger, or of the nail, under I the edge of the tendon, the fibres of which should ' be carefully divided in succession, with the probe- pointed knife, until wo have gained just sufficient room to replace the contents of the swelling. Wiien the tightness of the stricture prevents the operator I from using his finger as a guide, ho will employ the deeply-grooved curved director, introducing it as near as he can to the pubcs. In both cases, the blunt end only of the curved knife should be ))a3sed beyond the stricture, that the division may I)C cll'ected without risk to the arteries, in case they should not follow their usual course." The inte-i- tino should bo protected by the operator's left fore-finger, or, if that cannot be spared, it nny be held aside by an assistant. {On Ruptures, p. 4.32, I'd. 4.) Mr. Todd has always found the division of a few 987 fibres of Gimbernat's ligament effectual. {Dithlin Hospital Reports, vol. i. p. 254.) The following are his directions: after the sac has been opened, "let the operator pass the fore-finger of his left hand (if the hernia be on the right side, and vice versa) as far as can be, without using force, into the neck of the sac, the back of the nail being turned towards the pubes, and its extremity ap- plied to the edge of Gimbernat's ligament. Sir Astley Cooper's bistoury is then to be introduced, the finger serving as a conductor for it, the bistoury being held so, that its edge shall look towards Poupart's ligament, and one of its sides be in con- tact with the nail of the conducting finger, between which, and Gimbernat's ligament, it is to be passed. Having ascertained, with the blunt extremity of the bistoury, that it is fairly introduced into the crural ring, the intestine being protected, as much as possible, by the left hand of the operator, the edge of the bistoury is to be turned towards the pubes, and being pushed a little further into the ring, the sharp portion of its edge will be brought into contact with Gimbernat's ligament, and will divide a few fibres of it. The operator is still to keep the conducting finger between the intestine and bistour3'-, as thus he will be enabled to perceive the dilatation of the ring, and to judge of the extent to which it may be necessary to enlarge it." {C. H. Todd.) Sir Astley Cooper recommends the stricture to be divided " obliquely inwards and upwards, at right angles to the crural arch." In conse- quence of the very deep situation of the pos- terior edge of the crural arch, and the tight manner iu which the protruded viscera are sur- rounded by the tendon, this excellent surgeon con- siders, that the intestine is in great danger of being wounded with the knife, or, if held aside suffici- ently, of being torn. Hence, his custom is to divide the stricture on its anterior part, as far as the front margin of the crural arch, directing the edge of the knife upwards and inwards. If this is not sufficient, he afterwards cuts the thin posterior border of the tendon in the same direction. After advising us to open the sac of a femoral hernia with particular care, on account of its being much thinner than that of inguinal hernia, and (as might be added) on account of its seldom contain- ing any fluid, and often having no omentum in it covering tlie intestine, Mr. Hey remarks: " The stricture made upon the prolapsed parts is very great, as I have already observed; but if the tip of the finger can be introduced within the femoral ring, to guide the hernia knife, a small incision (for the ring is narrow) will be sufficient to set the parts at liberty. If the tip of the finger cannot be in- troduced at the proper place, a director with a deep groove must be used instead of the finger; but I prefer the latter. The finger or director should not be intVoduced very near the great vessels, but on that side of the intestine or omentum which is nearest to the symphysis of the ossa pubis, Tha incision may then he made directly upwards, Tho surgeon must take especial care to introduce his finger or director within that part where ho finds tho stricture to bo tho greatest, which, iu this species of hernia, is tho most interior part of tho wound " (o. 1.55), Gimbernat's mode is preferable to Mr. Hey'a, because, were the operation dono on a male, cut- ting directly upward would endanger tho spermatic