HERNIA. the danger of including the mass of omentum in a ligature. His practice consisted, therefore, in re- ducing the omentum, if possible, after largely dilu- ting the stricture. He admits, however, that there will be a considerable chance of inflammation from the efforts made in the reduction; and that loca! and general bleeding, and other antiphlogistic measures may be called for. (C&'n. Chir. t. i. p 597.) The prudence of reducing a large mass of diseased or hypertrophied omentum I must con tinue to doubt, notwithstanding the authority of Dupuytren. I have seen it done, but almost always with an unfavourable result. tlleatment when the intestine in the Sac is Mortified. Sometimes on opening the hernial sac, the in- testine is found to be in a gangrenous state, al- though the occurrence could not be previously knovyn, owing to the integuments and the hernial sac itself not being affected with the same mis- chief. In ordinary cases, however, both the skin and sac become gangrenous at the same time witli the contents of the hernia. The tumor, which was previously tense and elastic, becomes soft, doughy, emphysematous, and of a purple colour. Sometimes the parts also now spontaneously re- turn ; but the patient generally survives only a few hours. Sir A. Cooper has accurately remarked, that in other instances, the skin, covering the swelling, sloughs to a considerable extent, the intestine gives way, and, as the faeces find vent at the wound, the symptoms of strangulation soon subside. When the patient continues to live in these circum- stances, the living part of the intestine becomes adherent to the hernial sac, the sloughs separate and come away, and thus an artificial anus is es- tablished, through which the faices are sometimes discharged during the remainder of life. (See Anus, Artificial.) Frequently, however, things take a more pros- perous course; the faeces gradually resume their former route to the rectum, and, in proportion as the artificial anus becomes unnecessary, it closes up. Many instances of this sort have fallen under my own observation. (See Anus, Artificial.) The chance of a favourable event is much greater in some kinds of hernise than in others. When the strangulation only includes a part of the diameter of the gut, the faeces are sometimes only partially discharged through the mortified opening. This quantity lessens as the wound heals, and the patient gets perfectly well. {Louis, Mem. de I'Acad, de Chir. t. iii.; P. S. Palm, De Epiplo- enterocele crurali inoarcerata sphacduta, cum dc- perditione nolahili subslaniicB inteslini, sponia scpa- rait, feliciicr curata alvo naiumli resliliUa, 4 to. Tub. 1748 ; Hallcr, Disp. Chir. t. iii.) A small gangrenous spot or two may end in the same manner. Mortification, as well as wounds, of the large intestines, is much more frequently followed hy a recovery than the same affection and similar injuries of the small intestines. Mortification of the caicum and its appendix, in a hernial sac, has happened several times without materially disturb- mg the usual course of tire faeces to the anus, and the patients have soon recovered. {Med. Obs. a»d vol. iii. p. 162; Hefs Praot. Obs. p. lo2, &c.) The grand thing, on which the establishment of the continuous state of the intestinal canal depends, in all these cases, is the adhesion which the living portion of the bowel, adjoining the mortified part, contracts with the peritoneum all round. In this manner, the escape of the contents of the bowels into the cavity of the peritoneum becomes in general completely prevented. The two ends of the sound portion of intestine, after the mortified part has separated, open into a membranous cavity, which previously constituted a portion of the peritoneal sac, and now unites the extremities of the gut. The gradual contraction of the wound closes the membranous cavity externally, and thus the con- tinuity of the canal is restored. The two ends, however, are not joined so as to form a continued cylindrical tube, like that of the natural gut; but they are united at an angle more or less acute, and the matter, which goes from one to the other, de- cribes a half circle in a newly formed membranous cavity that completes the canal; a subject which has been more fully explained in another part of this work. (See Anus, Artificial.) It is an observation of Sir A, Cooper, that the degree of danger, attending an artificial anus, de- pends on the vicinity of the sphacelated part of the intestinal canal to the stomach. Thus, if the opening be in the jejunum, there is such a small extent of surface for absoiption between it and the stomach that the patient dies of inanition. Let us now suppose, that the mortified state of the intestine has only been discovered after laying open the hernial sac in the operation. The mischief may only consist of one or more spots, or it may be of the whole diameter of the protruded bowel. In the first case, the proper practice is to divide the stricture,and return the intestine into the abdomen, with the mortified spots towards the wound. Mild purgatives and clysters are then to be exhibited. The most favourable mode, in which a case of this kind ends, is when the intestinal matter gradually resumes its natural course, after being either partly or entirely discharged from the wound. But sometimes the patient sinks under the disease, or an artificial anus continues for life. The repeated observations of modern surgeons have now decided that no ligature, passed through tilt mesentery, to keep the gangrenous part of the bowel near the wound, is at all necessary. The parts in the neighbourhood of tlie ring have all become adherent together, in consequence of in- flammation, at the same time that the parts in the hernial sac mortified; and, of course, the partially gangrenous bowel, when reduced, is mechanicallj' hindered by these adhesions from slipping far from the wound. Dcsault and De la Faye both confirm the fact that the intestine never recedes far from the ring; and, even were it to do so, the adhesions which it soon contracts to the adjacent surfaces would, as Petit has explained, completely circumscribe any matter which might be efl'used, and hinder it from being extravasated among the convolutions of the viscera, {Mem. dc I'Acad. de Chir. t. i. ii.) When the chief part, or the whole, of the dia- meter of the protruded bowel is mortified, the first and most urgent indication is to relieve the bad symptoms arising from the distension of the intes- tinal canal above the stricture. " Let a free in- cision, says Mr. Lawrence, be made through the mortified part of the gut, in order to procure that evacuation of the loaded cannJ which nature at-