'^^^ FKACTURE, According to Sir A. Cooper, the upper end of the main portion of the humerus sinks into the axilla, where it can be felt, and the deltoid ia drawn down by it so that the roundness of the shoulder is diminished. {On Dislocations, %;c. p. 459.) When the accident is produced by a direct blow or fall on the fleshy part of the shoulder, the del- toid is sometimes contused and affected with ecchy- mosis. Blood may even be eflfused from some of the ruptured articular veins or arteries, and form a collection. [IVr. Malgaigne, on the other hand, states that in a great majority of the cases which he has met with the deformity was very trifling, and the frac- tured ends were geldom completely separated from each other. Out of more than twenty examples he only saw two in which there was " sensible and recognisable" displacement. (Sea Traiie des Fractures, p. 5]5.) ] Fractures of the neck of the humerus have, not unfrequently from want of attention, been con- founded with dislocations, notwithstanding the difl^erence in the diagnostic symptoms of the two accidents. On this part of the subject some admirable ob- servations were made by Dupuytren. Every per- son, he remarks, who meets either with a -disloca- tion, or a fracture of the upper end of the humerus, has fallen upon the corresponding side of the body; but the position of the limb at the moment of the fall has not been the same in both cases ; and this difi'erence commonly determines the kind of injury which is to follow, and furnishes the means of recognising it. If, in falling, the patient separates his arm from the side, and puts out his hand to weaken the effects of the fall, the accident will be a dislocation of the head of the humerus, without fracture. On the contrary, if the arm be kept close to the side, as in an unex- pected fall, or when the hand is confined in the breeches pocket, the weight of the body then acts upon the cushion of the shoulder, and if there is any displacement, it arises from a fracture of the head, or upper part of the humerus. If the case be a dislocation, the hand having struck the ground is usually marked by mud, dirt, abrasions, or ecchymosis: if a dislocation, the violence having operated directly on the cushion of the shoulder, the hand is free from those appearances, and the part of the dress covering the deltoid pre- sents traces of having come in contact with the ground ; or the skin of the shoulder exhibits marks of contusion. In dislocation, ecchymosis is situated at the internal and forepart of the arm ; in fracture, it is upon the very cushion of the shoulder. In dislocation, ecchymosis is less fre- quent than in fracture. In both accidents the acromion is prominent, but more so in dislocation; and in fracture the deltoid is shortened, and, as it were, swollen. In fracture the vacancy under the acromion is less than in dislocation, and the prominence in the axilla much less. In disloca- tion there is no crepitation — no ready movable- ncss of the limb, as in fracture. Dislocation re- quires greater efforts for its reduction, for the maintenance of which it is sufficient to confine the arm close to the side ; but in fracture of tlie upper part of the humerus an apparatus ia indis- pensable to hinder the muscles from reproducing the displacement. A fracture, without displace- ment, may be mistaken for a simple contusion. The crepitus and mobility felt in the injured part • on rotating the lower portion of the humerus, are' the only means of ascertaining the nature of the accident; but care must be taken not to be deceived by the kind of crackling felt in examining the shoulder after a severe contusion, and which arises from inflammation of the articular surfaces, and a deficiency of synovia, (See Dupuytren, in Clin. C/iir.t. iii. p. 106.) [The position of the limb at the moment of the fall, and the situation of the ecchymosis, are how- ever, by no means such reliable signs as Dupu)-- tren supposed them to be, for it is now known that dislocations are also not unfrequently caused by falls upon the shoulder, with the arm close to the side. (See Dislocation op the Shoulder.) There is a class of cases, however, in which the symptoms are by no means so distinct as usual, and this is when the fragments have become impacted, the upper end of the shaft having been driven into the cancellated texture of the head and tuberosities. In these cases the fractured surfaces may be only very slightly movable on each other, and there may be, therefore, great difficulty in detec- ting crepitus ; the deformity may be only trifling, and the head of the bone may even be felt to move, with the shaft when the latter is rotated. Mr. R. W. Smith thus describes the signs of this somewhat obscure injury: " When a person falls on the upper and outer part of the shoulder, and at once loses the power of executing the motions natural to the articulation, when none of the characters of luxation, or of the ordinary fractures of the neck of the humerus are present, and where at the same time there is a certain degree of deformity, which, though slight, it is by no means easy to remove, and an unusual difficulty in detecting crepitus, we have grounds for suspecting the existence of an impacted fracture of the neck of the bone. " In order, however, to form a more decided opinion as to the nature of the lesion which the bone has suflfered, let the surgeon with both hands grasp the head of the bone with firmess sufficient to maintain it as nearly as possible in a fixed position, while an assistant rotates the elbow ; by this method crepitus can be produced in the great majority of cases." (Treatise on Fractures, *c. p. 186-, im.) In young persons, instead of fracture, separation in the line of union of the epiphysis with the shaft most commonly happens, but the symptoms of this accident do not differ very materiallj'- from those of the ordinary fracture of the surgical neck. The head of the bone remains in the glenoid cavity; a slight depression is seen beneath it, and it re- mains motionless when the shaft of the humerus is rotated. The upper extremity of the shaft of the bone is drawn inwards by the muscles which con- stitute the folds of the axilla, and forms an abrupt projection beneath the coracoid process, but it is seldom drawn so far inwards as to enable it to clear comiiletelj' the surface of the superior portion, and consequently there is but little displacement as regards the length of the bone. The projection of the upper surface of the shaft feels smoother than in an ordinary fracture, and the crepitus is less rough and grating than usual, (See li. JC. Smit/i, op. cit. p. 200.) It will bo found that these are as nearly as possible the symptoms referred by Sir A. Cooper