HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 1007 thinner, so as to burst of itself, and give ready vent, not merely to the little serous matter, but to all the dead cellular membrane, which constitutes the chief part of the disease. When the contents of the little tumor are slow in making their way out- ward, through the opening, the surgeon, gently compressing the base of the stye, ought to force them out. After this all the symptoms of the dis- ease will disappear, and the cavity, left by tlie dead cellular membrane in the centre of the little tumor, will be found quite filled up, and healed in the course of twenty-four hours. Sometimes, though seldom, this process of nature, destined to detach the dead from the living cellu- lar membrane, only takes place incompletely, and a small fragment of yellow dead cellular substance still continues fixed in the cavity, and hinders the cure. In this circumstance, the further employ- ment of emollient poultices is of little or no ser- vice. The surgeon should now touch the cavity with nitrate of silver scraped to a point, or dip the point of a camel-hair pencil in sulphuric acid, and touch the inside of the stye with it, one or more times, until the sloughy cellular membrane comes away. After this, the small cavity remaining will soon close. Should the eyelid continue afterwards a little swollen and osdematous, this affection may be removed by applying the lotio plumbi acet. containing a little spirit of wine. Some persons are often annoyed with this disease. This is most frequent in persons who live on acrid irritatmg food, and drink spirits. The stye, which occurs and relapses so frequently in scrofulous children, is readily curable by means of sulphate of qui- nine, and rubbing the tumor, when not inflamed, with any smooth hard body, like a plain gold ring; [and also by the internal use of chlorate of potash, in doses of from five to fifteen grains three times a day.] (See R. Middlemore, On Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 772.) Chronic styes may occasionally be made to suppurate, by applying to them stimu- lating salves. (See W. Mackenxie, On Dis. of the Eye, p. 158, ed. 2.) (See Scarpa, Sulle Malaitie degli Occhi, cap. ii. Guthrie's Operative Surgery of the Eye, p. 107. 7?. Middlemore, On Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 770. 8vo. Lond. 1035. [Dia:on,on Dis. of the Eye, 1855. Desmarres' Traite, S^c. 2d edit. Paris, 1855. Mackenxie, on Dis. of the Eye, 4th edit. 1054.)] HOSPITAL GANGRENE. {Phagcdcena Gangrenosa; Hospital Sore; Putrid or Malignant Ulcer J Pourriture d''Il6pital.) [The term gan grene is not well applied to this affection, as we shall presently show. The real nature of it is that of sloughing phagedrcna, or diphthorite; a condi tion in which certain morbid exudations are poured out in or vipon a wounded or diseased part, and there undergo decomposition together with the tissues they involve.] It is particularly charac- terised by its contagious or infectious nature ; its disposition to attack wounds, or ulcers, in crowded hospitals, or other situations, where many of these cases are brought together ; and its tendency to convert the soft parts affected into a putrid, gluti nous, or pulpy substance, in which no trace of their original texture is discernible. {Delpcch, Precis Elem. des Mai. Chir. t. i. p. 123.) [Rousseau has well said that " man of all .animals is tho least able to live in herds," Under no circumstances can human beings be crowded toge ther with impunity. Towns ill placed and arranged, fortresses during sieges, and most hospitals and prisons, are true death places for the human race. Out of the air which has served for respiration, and tho animal exhalations, are engendered a crowd of miasmata, capable of producing diseases, and of these none more remarkable than the hos- pital gangrene. " For a long time this malady was confounded with gangrene {-^mortification)-, yet the diagnosis is easy. Gangrene is the extinction of life in a part more or less extensive ; hospital gangrene, the decomposition of a surface. Gangrene is usually the consequence of intense inflammation, of con- tusion, pressure, ligature, strangulation, burns, or infiltration; hospital gangrene has its source in foul air, loaded with animal exhalations. Gan- grene attacks without regard to dwelling or con- dition ; is not epidemic ; and once arrested, seldom relapses. Hospital gangrene is more insidious, more deadly ; it only attacks wounded or ulcerated surfaces : it may make the simplest wound a focus of putrefaction ; it is developed par excellence in ships, prisons, and hospitals ; it may attack the same individual many times ; if he have many- wounds, it may affect one singly, or more than one; on a large wound it may affect only a part of the surface, whilst the remainder proceeds in suppu- rating and cicatrising favorably."—{Aubry, F, J., DisseHation sur la Complication des Plaies, et des Ulceres, Paris, 1815.) In revising the present article, it is proposed to follow strictly the style and purpose of the original, and to present a kind of bibliographical or literary history of the subject. We shall therefore allow each author quoted to speak, for the most part, in his own words, and shall give extracts from the chief writers from the time of the Peninsular War to the Crimean; for it needs scarcely be said, that it is in the crowded hospitals attached to armies in the field that hospital gangrene displays itself in its true malignity. But, first, we crave atten- tion to the following propositions, which will enable the student to grasp the leading ideas in the para- graphs which follow. 1. Hospital gangrene is the result of a poison generated by crowding the wounded together, with insufficient ventilation. This poison may act, first, by direct inoculation, or application of the matter from one patient's wound to another's; or, secondly, it may act through the medium of its vapour, on wounded surfaces. In either of these cases the first symptoms are local, and the disease produced is at first local. In a third set of cases, the poison acts through the reception of its vapour into the blood; and in this case shivering and other constitutional symp- toms come first. If the patient have a wound, it may be affected with the gangrene; if he have not, the effect of the poison may be evidenced by a gan- grenous carbuncle or by bilious fever, diarrhoea, or dysentery. Tho poison is extremely permanent, and adheres to linen, and other organic substances, even after cleansing. 2. When the disease begins locallj', the first symptom is usually pain, the next a diphtheritic exudation. The writer claims that he first pointed out the analogy between the exudation of diphtho- rite and that of hospital gangrene. The course of the disease is, that the exudation, and the parts