866 HEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS, bleeding vessels were secured as usual, yet the patient bled to deatli, the blood continuously ooz- ing from the stump in spite of all applications. {Lancet, No. 138, p. 99.) Treatment.—For the purpose of improving the condition of the blood, and correcting the haemor- rhagic tendency, a tonic and invigorating course is indicated, and in particular, a full nutritious diet and free exposure to the open air and light, with the avoidance of all exhausting or debilitating habits. Iron, cod-liver oil, and bitter tonics have also to be employed, the first two being especially useful by increasing the amount of red corpuscles and di- minishing the hydramic condition of the blood. Whether the inhalation of an increased amount of oxygen, either by means of an apparatus for the purpose or the compressed air-bath, would produce a permanent increase of the fibrine, there are no experiments to determine. Saline purga- tives have been found particularly useful. In one case, haemorrhage appeared to be averted for a long period by a full dose of sulphate of mag- nesia taken as a purgative once a week. Citric acid has also been proposed as a prophylactic, owing to the resemblance which the disease bears to scurvy. But no general plan of treatment of this kind can avail much when the haemorrhage sets in. Persons of this constitution should avoid occupations in which they are liable to wound or otherwise injure themselves. In the treatment of the haemorrhage much de- pends on energy, promptitude, and the judicious selection of remedies. Mr. Millar points out the desirableness of bearing in mind, that when the bleeding commences the blood is coagulable, which ceases to be the case as it continues to flow. Where the vessel could be reached all the usual methods of compression and the most powerful styptics, as the acid nitrate of mercury, the poten- tial and the actual cautery, have been resorted to, sometimes successfully; but it has too frequently happened, even when the bleeding has been ar- rested, that it has broken out again, or that upon a subsequent attack the case has proved fatal. These remedies are treated of in full under another head (see HiEMOBRHAGE); we therefore limit our- selves in this place to a statement of views enter- tained on the arrest of ha;morrhage in the hajmor- rhagic diathesis. Mr. Wardrop justly remarks, that substances which dispose the blood to coagulate have more effect in restraining the bleeding for a time than those which excite the arteries to contract. In the earliest stage the invigorating general treat- ment, already described, is indicated, to maintain or increase the amount of fibrine in the circulating blood. As the blood flows, at first more of the globules than of the fibrine are wasted and the proportion of the latter becomes relatively increased, a circumstance favourable to coagulation. Stimu- lants should not be resorted to in this stage, since they are calculated to rouse the circulation, and prevent that approach to syncope which frequently occurs and sometimes leads to coagulation. One patient took a bottle of port-wine daily, but con- tinued to sink till the system of treatment was abandoned. {Lancet, No. 974, p. 149.) Mr. Miliar suggests an irritant applied to some distant part and rapidly exciting a superficial inflara- mass of blood, and also acting as a derivative. And this gentleman remarks, that it is not rapid coagulation, usually affording a loose and po- rous clot, which is required, but just that solid and efficient clot which results from the slow coagulation of blood in inflammations. Dry cupping is also suggested as a derivative. " For the purpose of calming the general circulation and depressing the influence of the nervous system, thereby favouring a coagulation of the blood in the vessels," acetate of lead and opium may be given in doses of three to five grains of the former to half a grain of the latter, every four or six hours, accord- ing to the urgency of the symptoms. Of the astrin- gent class of medicines, twenty grains of sulphate of alumina, every two or three hours, is amongst the best. A full dose of oil of turpentine has been suc- cessful hi some hands. Nauseating doses of ipecacu- anha or tartarised antimony are also recommended to moderate the general circulation and promote the coagulation of the blood in the capillaries, and to remove the febrile condition which attends the early stage of the haemorrhage; but these should never be carried to emesis. Purgatives, and par- ticularly the sulphate of soda, administered several days in succession, have been found remarkably useful in arresting the haemorrhage, by Dr. Otto, Dr. Hay, and others. This has been attributed to their effect in diminishing the serous part of the blood. Elaterium, for the same purpose, is sug- gested by Mr. Millar, with the remark that its exhibition is practicable, administering support at the same time. Andral considered sulphate of soda the most efficient substance to retard the com- mencement of coagulation, and render the clot firm; and Mr. Millar adds that it is useful in obviating any bad effects that might result from a previous exhibition of lead, but the two remedies cannot be administered together. Upon the whole, Mr. Millar seems to regard the Pil. Pluntb. Opiat. as the most powerful remedy, acting favourably on the blood, calming the circulation, subduing the nervous influence, and "correcting the degeneracy of the capillaries themselves." Wachsmuth recommends secale cornutum in doses of five grains ever}"^ half- hour. The Germans, who regard the spontaneous bleedings as critical, lay it down as a principle that they should not be arrested too quickly lest a vicarious haemorrhage occur in some vital organ. Amongst the topical applications, Mr. Millar condemns the use of the cautery, actual or potential, in very decided terms. He believes that in the heemorrhagic diathesis they have no virtue as hte- mostatics, and that the former, especially, inflicts almost irretrievable injur}'. " The vessels are un- able to pucker and contract ; the eschar is com- paratively soft, and will not adhere ; if it does ad- here, it is imperfectly, and for a short period ; the parts have no plastic power necessary for permanent occlusion ; and the result is, that the cauterisation either does not arrest the bleed- ing at all, or it does so only in part, besides rays- tifj'ing and obscuring the source of the htemor- rhage ; or if the cessation be satisfactory at first, the flow returns in a few hours with redoubled vigour ; the bleeding surface is increased, the part is being iiiflanied, and more blood is sent thither, and perhaps, worst of all, it is fast becoming wholly intolerant of pressure." Mr. Millar quotes nume- incrla"' ^'^as'ble and safe, for the purpose of rous cases which practically illustrate the correct- easing tbe quantity of fibrine in the general ness of these views, showing that in a great raajo-