the action of the muscles, or the weight of the bodj', or purt itself may be diminished as mucli as possible. The natural, or rather the most easy, position of the limb, is that which is usually chosen by a person who reposes himself, or who is sleeping ; for then all motion is suspended, and every part assumes that posture which is most congenial to it. In this condition the limbs are not extended, lior yet entirely bent ; but only in a moderate state of flexion. Heiice, Buyer remarks, that a half-bent position of the limbs is that which is most natural, and that in which all the muscles enjoy an equal degree of relaxation, and, conse- quently, that it is, generally speaking, the best for fractures. This posture, which was recommended by Hippocrates and Galen, has been highly ex- tolled by Pott, who appears to have exaggerated its advantages. Considered in a general way, it is without contradiction preferable to every other position of the limb ; but its employment should be liable to exceptions, as will be noticed in treat- iiig of particular fractui-es. (See Traita dcs Mai. Chit: t. viii. p. 40.) In whatever position a broken limb is placed, it should bear, throughout its whole length, equally and perpendicularly upon tlie surface on which it lies, and not be only partially supported. When, for example, only the extremities of a fractured limb rest upon the bed, the weight of the limb itself will make it bend in the situation of the fracture. The limb will also be rendered crooked if the broken part be supported, while the extre- mities of the limb (especially the inferior) sink lower by their own weight. The displacement of the fracture is nut the only inconvenience arising from the limb being laid upon a surface where it i.s not everywhere equally well supported. The parts which bear on this surface, experience i painful degree of pressure, which, if long con- tinued, may produce inflammation, and even sloughing of the integuments. Thus, in fractures of the leg, gangrene of the heel has sometimes 'arisen entirely from this cause. Such incon- veniences may often be prevented by laying a fractured limb oh a surface of corresponding form ; that is to sa}-, on a surface which is depressed where the limb has projections, and rises where it presents depressions. Tiie surface should not be so iiard as to annoy the patient; yet it ought to be sufficiently firm not to yield to the weight of the limb and apparatus. In v/hatevcr position fractured limbs are placed, they ought to be kept perfectly quiet during the whole time reqviisite for the union. If the broken bone be moved while the callus is forming, the surfaces of the fracture rub against each other, and the process is disturbed and retarded ; and, indeed, sometimes by repeatedly moving the limb, the consolidation of fractures is entirely pre- vented. In order to maintain the limb in the right posi- tion, and in a state of quietude, and to preserve the fragments in proper contact with respect to each otiier, the surgeon is to caution the patient to avoid moving more than can bo helped, and every cause likely to subject the limb to any kind of shock or concussion is to be removed. But, in particular, it will be necessary to apply a retentive apparatus, usually consisting of bandages, splints, tapes, straps and buckles, soft pads, c^c. FRACTURE. C87 With respect to bandages, the common roller answers for fractures of the humerus, radius, ulna, and fibula. Indeed, when M'Intyre's apparatus is made use of, or Desault's method of treating a broken thigh is followed, it is the must eligible bandage for all sinqjle fractiires of the lower ex- tremity, and even for some compound ones. But if a broken thigh or leg is to be treated according to Pott's directions, then the eighteen, or many- tailed bandage is necessary. Tlie advantages of it are that, by means of it, all necessity is avoided of lifting up, and disturbing the limb, every time it is dressed, or every time the bandage loosens. Indeed, with it the leg or thigh need never once be removed during the cure from the pillow or splint on which it has been deposited. The same advantage, however, is obtained with common rollers, when M'Intyre's apparatus is used, which, as well as the limb itself, is to be encircled by them. (See Description of a Splint invented for the Trealment of Fractured Limbs by James M'Iniijre, 8vo. Newcastle, IH25.) In Uni- versity College Hospital we dispense with the sock, and fix the limb with three rollers ; one surrounds the upper part of the leg and the knee ; another binds the foot to the foot-piece and encircles the ankle ; and the third is applied to the central part of the leg, including the situation of the fracture. This lust roller admits of being taken off, and the fracture, simple or compound, examined, without meddling with the other rollers, which steady the upper and lower parts of the leg, and therefoi'e it does not undergo the slightest disturbance. Ou the Whole, I cannot fancy that any apparatus for broken legs will ever fulfil its purposes better than that of Mr. M'Intyre, which has also the recommendation of great simplicity. A very cheap form of this apparatus has lately been contrived by Mr. Listen, the peculiarities of which are the omission of most of the thigh part, and the placing of an aperture at the point where the heel lies, so that the painfid pressure on this part is consi- derably lessened. However, those surgeons who prefer to treat fractured thighs in the flexed po- sition, ' with the patient on his back, will find M'Intyre's apparatus, its arranged by himself, exceedingly convenient. Another surgeon of Newcastle, Mr. T. M. Greenhow, is also the inventor of an exceedingly ingenious apparatus for fractures of the lower ux- tremity. It enables the surgeon to bring the whole circumference of a broken leg into view, after the fracture has been set, without the least movement or disturbance of any part of the limb. This, as every man of experience knows, is a great ad- vantage in the treatment of compound fractures, wliere the application of dressings to the wound sufficiently often, the prompt discharge of abscesses, the preservation of the parts in a cleanly state, and the opportunity of inspecting the i}osition of the ends of the fracture in the early stages of the formation of the callus, are objects contributing very essentially to the favourable i)rogress and termination of these accidents. With this appara- tus porm(\ncut extension either of the leg or thiiih if judged advisable, may be adopted, tliere bcin"' a contrivance for this oljject. One cliief principle of Mr. Grecnhow's apparatus is, that the limb re- mains .supported in an iron frame-work, after every- thing else has been removed. (See T. M. Green- how's Description of an Apparatus intended io