ANEURISM. r .3 to that organ. They consist generally of twitch- iiigs, convulsions, and hemiplegia ; and in other cases of drowsiness, stupor, coma, and apoplexy. After deligation of the carotid, the lungs, also, are apt to sutler from congestion, as has been pointed out by Jobert and Miller, in some instances at least, apparently secondary to, and probably dependent on, the cerebral disturbance.] Distal Operation for Aneurism of the Arteria Innominata. It having been established, that aneurisms may bi5 cured by simply lesseniug the impetus of the blood flowing through them, and that, although a circulation may yet continue in them for some time, the layers of coagulable Ivmph witliin the sac augment, and ultimately bring about a com- plete consolidation of the swelling, it occurred to Mr. Wardrop, that in aneurism of the arteria mnommata, the progress of the disease might be arrested by tying its two great branches, the carotid and subclavian. Although a certain portion of blood would still continue to pass along the inno- minata to those branches of the subclavian on the cardiac side of the ligature, the ligature beinn- necessarily placed on the subclavian artery, after It emerges from between the scaleni muscles, Mr. \y ardrop conceived that such would yet be the diminution of the impetus of the blood in the sac, that the future increase of the tumor would be' prevented, and even a permanent obliteration of the aneurismal cavity would be accomplished. {On Anetmsm, p. 58.) The knowledge of this principle, indeed, he thinks, may be useful in the cure of many aneurisms which have hitherto been considered beyond the reach of art. In an aneu- rism of the innominata, Mr. ilackelcan found that nature had nearly completed a cure on this principle. The carotid artery was plugged up, and the large aneurismal swelling was iilled with a coagiilum, leaving only a comparatively small ch,inncl for the passage of the blood into the sub- clavian artery. (See Jppendix to Wanlrop on Aneu- nsm.) However, Mr. Guthrie takes a different view of this case, and infers that a ligature on the carotid above the aneurism would have been of no use, so far as the obliteration of the arteries was concerned, unless it had been followed by ■nflammation of the sac and coagulation of its '""'HxT^' ^^"'^ On the Dis. of Arteries, >. -Ub.) He makes this inference, because thouo-h ;tie artery was rendered impervious, by a natural process, the disease went on increasing, till it de- itroyed the patient. The coagulation of blood is 111 that the advocates of this plan have in view. Mr. \V ardrop has seen instances, and several are m record, which illustrate the important patholo- {ical tact, and prove, beyond a doubt, that blood nay coagulate in an aneurism so as to strengthen he panetesof the sac, and ultimately fill its cavity ■vitliout the circulation in tlie sac being, in the first iistance, either suddenly or entirely interrupted. It was tile knowledge of this fact that led Mr VVardrop to perform tiie operation whicii ho has elated. Nature, in tlie case alluded to, had al- eady instituted a curative process by diminisiiiiiff he circulation in the carotid artery ; and when le found this alone not .Mifiicient to stop the en- irgement of the aneurism, he determined to place ligature on the subclavian. In doing this e conceived that he waa strictly imitating the 213 had commenced. process which nature herself (P. 01.) The case of Mrs. Denmark, aged forty- live, in whom he tied the subclavian artery, and thus cured an aneiu'ism of the arteria innominata, is highly interesting. The particulars may be read in ^ his own publication, or in the Laneet for 1027. Suffice it here to state, that the ope- ration hud the eflect of diminishing the size of the tumor, and causing it almost to disappear. The swelling afterwards enlarged, however, and the patient died. In the j)ost mortem examination, the tumor was found occupying the central space be- tween the sterno-mastoid muscles, and composed of three portions ; one arising immediately above the sternum ; another upwards along the trachea ; and the third was the original portion of the aneu- rism, consolidated by the effects of the operation. The swelling, which underwent no diminution af- ter death, felt like a firm fleshy mass. On laying it open longitudinally, it appeared nearly solid! The clavicular and tracheal portions of the sac were filled with firm coagulum, the cavity being chiefly limited to the division between the sternal and tra- cheal portions, and it was about the size of a wal- nut The coats of the aorta were somewhat thickened ; and it presented a few points of ossifi- cation. "On cutting into the innominata from the aorta, the aneurism was found to have ori- ginally extended from its origin to its bifiu-- cation. The subclavian artery is divided at the place where the ligature had been applied • and both the cardiac and distal orifices are con- tracted, and the sides of the vessel coalesce, and adhere firmly together. The right carotid per- vious, and quite healthy." I think with Mr. buthne, that the account of the dissection would have been improved by the statement, whether the E.? . H f.'il"=l^vian, given ofl^ nearer the heart than the ligature, were pervious, or not. Mr? r'"^ V^'" '''^^ '^^''^ Mr. Guthrie of Mrs. Denmark's case: "It appears to me (he maTiorl! "' Sa?e rise to inflanv mation, and consequent coagulation in the sac which led to a diminution of its size, without inter- fering with the channel by which the blood passed into the right carotid. The disease was, therefore for the time, arrested ; but, as the artery was unhealthy in the parts surrounding the aneurism, it arrain returned, and ultimately destroyed the patient Ihe same thing is clearly taking place in Mr' Lvans s patient." (See Guthrie, On the Dis of the. Arteries, p. 190.) In tlie advertisement pro- fi-xed to this work is a similar prognostication with reference to Dr. Mott's very interesting case In he appendix to Mr. Wardrop's publication -n,^ in the Lancet for November IR^r ;! " ' ■ which Mr. Evans, of Belner • ^ ''""^ an aneurism of the iilnS^ /dt ^'^f T""^ rotid, by tying the latter ve se Tin. T after Uie opei^tion, the pS ; a't toh^'S horse-dealer, thirty years of ago, was 111 1 to attond regularly tile markets'aU f i^ f seven miles from his home. I„ the course of ?' case, three remarkable eircumstances c .1^' 1st An obliteration of the principal arteries of th,: nght arm. 2,idly. A profuse salinuion. Jrdlv A disposition to paralysis of the right side ; supposed b,y Mr Evans, to have arisen IVom a great ' ,, .!„! ' y 0 blood be ng sent to the left hemisphere f ho '■■a.'n than to the right. However, as such pa lysis has not attended other operations, in which