DISLOCATION. 555 again, by tying the patient's thighs together with a bandage placed a little above the knees. The patient should be kept in bed at least three weeks; live low; and rub the joint with a camphorated liniment. Due time must be given for tiie lacerated ligaments to unite,and the sprained parts to recover; for premature exercise way bring on irremediable disease in the joint. For the purpose of facilitating the reduction, surgeons often endeavour to produce a temporary faintness by a copious venesection, immediate!}' before the extension is begun; a practice which, ■when the patient's state of health does not forbid it, is advisable, as materially lessening the resist- ance of the muscles. Sir A. Cooper gives it his general approbation, as well as the warm bath, and nauseating doses of tartcirised antimony. After taking away from twelve to twenty ounces of blood, he places the patient in a bath heated to ] 00 degrees, and gradually raised to 110 degrees, until faintness is induced. While in the bath the patient is also to take a grain of tartarised antimony every ten minutes, until nausea is excited, when he is to be removed from the bath, put in blankets, and placed between two strong posts, in each of which a staple is fixed, or he may be placed on the floor, into which two rings may be screwed. Of Mr. Hey's plan, especially the direction of the limb in it, he entertains an unfavourable opinion, as little calculated to answer where the reduction has been at all delayed. (On Dislocations, p. 45.) In this sentiment I fully concur. In all cases of difficulty, the above-mentioned debilitating means, the intoxicating effect of a liberal dose of opium, and the use of pulleys for the reduction, deserve recommendation. [For producing muscular relaxation, chloroform is in the present day of course universally pre- ferred to the measures above described, which may now be considered to belong to the history rather than to the present practice of surgery.] An instance of dislocation of the thigh-bone on the dorsum of the ilium, with fracture of the former bone, is recorded by Sir Astley Cooper: the dislo- cation was not at first detected, and afterwards no attempt to reduce the bone was considered pru- dent :—" The probability is that dislocation, thus complicated with fracture, will generally not admit of reduction, as an extension cannot be made until three or four months have elapsed from the acci- dent, and then only with strong splints upon the thigh, to prevent the risk of disuniting the frac- ture." {On Dislocations, ^c. p. G2.) A case is recorded by Sir Astley Cooper, whore a portion of the edge of the acetabulum was broken off. Dr. James Scott thinks it probable, that, in many instances of dislocation upwards, the brim of the acetabulum is fractured, and to this circumstance he ascribes the occasional tediousness of the re- covery after reduction. (See Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iii. p. 389.) Probably, if the head of the femur had been replaced soon after the occurrence of the injury, it would have been ex- ceedingly difficult to maintain it in this state; liut, ns Mr. Wormald has remarked, the difficulty would have depended upon the size of the portion of the acetabulum brciken of!'. [ Milder measures than those above recommended have sometimes been adopted of late years. In a case under the care of Mr. Morgan, in Guy's Hos- pital, in 1039, the reduction was attempted with the heel against the perineum, on the same plan as in dislocation of the humerus into the axilla, exten- sion being made from a bandage attached to the knee. On making very moderate extension, the head of the bone returned into the acetabulum. (See Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations, S^c. ed. by B. Cooper. 1842, p. 57.) Since the discovery of chloroform such a method is still more likely to prove successful. Three cases of dislocation backwards and upwards, under the care of Mr. Birkett in Guy's Hospital, and recorded in the Lancet, vol. ii. 1855, p. 105, appear to have been reduced in this manner with the greatest facility. The dresser, placing his heel and foot against the pubes, and grasping the limb just above the ankle, made direct extension and gentle rotation outwards, when almost immediately the head of the bone slipped into its place. Another method, by "manipulation" of the limb without the employment of any but a very slight degree of force, has been brought promi- nently into notice in this country of late years by the surgeons of Guy's Hospital, and has been practised frequently and very successfully both there and elsewhere. The manipulatory movements consist in first flexing the thigh upon the abdomen, then abducting it by pressing the knee outwards, at the same time slightly ro- tating it outwards, when the head of the bone is found usually to slip into the acetabulum. (See Record of Cases under Mr. BirJcett, Med. Times and Gaz. March 4, 1854, p. 210; and Lancet, Aug. 4, 1855, p. 105 ; also under Mr. Cock, Med. Times and Gaz. June 30, 1855, p. 644; and under Mr. Wormald, in same Journal, Aug. 16, 1856, p. 170, &c. &c.) Movements of this kind have several times succeeded in cases where extension with the pulleys had been previ- ously ineffectual. On the other hand, it should be stated that dislocations have not unfrequently been reduced in the old fashion with the pulle3's after the manipulatory movements had failed. Dr.W. Reid of Rochester, N. Y., had previously published a paper on this subject in the Buffalo Medical Journal for August 1851. The instruc- tions which this gentleman gave in the paper in question are as follow :—" Let the operator stand or kneel on the injured side, seize the ankle with one hand, the knee with the other, then flex the leg on the thigh, next strongly abduct" {ad- duct ? ) " it, carrying it over the soimd one, and at the same time upward over the pelvis by a kind of semicircular sweep as high as the umbilicus ; then abduct tlie knee genllg, turn the toes outwards, the heel inwards, and carry the foot across the op- posite and sound limb, making gentle oscillations of the thigh, when the head of the bone will slip into its socket." {Buffalo Med. Journ. 1851.) " When the thigh is flexed on the trunk, say at an angle of 45°, and is gently abducted, and the head of the bone thus brought close to the lower edge of the acetabulum, if while gentle oscillations of the thigh are made at tlie knee, it—the head—does not im- mediately enter the socket, the knee sliould be alternately elevated and depressed, thus varying tlie angle of tlio thigh." (See A'^. Y. Journ. of Med. July, 1855, p. 06. Dr. Reid believes the success of this method depends upon the relaxation of the abductor and rotator muscles by the movements recommended; the distended orstretchcd condition of these muscles constitutuig, in his