EYE. 665 deposited under the pleura pulmonalis; in another, encephaloid matter invaded some of the viscera. These cases are usually as rapidly fatal as soft can- cers, but marked exceptions occasionally occur. The following case, one of three related by Mr. Stanley, sufficiently exemplifies the chai-acters and nature of the malady :—A woman, thirty years of age, was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, with a hard and immovable tumor, occupying the upper half of the leg,and in the popliteal space there were two smaller, hard, but movable tumors. The large tumor had been eighteen years in progress, and the small tumors were of recent formation. The malignant character of the disease was indicated by sallowness of countenance, and collapse of the features. The limb was amputated through the lower third of the thigh. The large tumor was found to consist almost wholly of bone, which in one part presented the yellow colour and density of ivory, and in another was cancellous. The ivory-like portion of the tumor was continuous, with the same kind of deposit within the medullary tube of the tibia. The walls of the tibia were yellow, and of ivory-like density. The exterior of the tumor was composed of soft substance, which in some parts was fibrous and in others encepha- loid. The smaller tumors in the ham were com- posed of osseous substance, partly ivory-like, and partly cancellous; and it appeared probable that they were formed by ossification of the absorbent glands. Within the medullary tuba and can- cellous texture of the femur there were deposits of ivory-like bone, and of soft substance, in some parts fibrous, in others encephaloid. The stump healed soundly. Cough and difficulty of breathing ensued, and continued to the death of the patient, two months after the remoTal of the limb. Numerous isolated ivory-like deposits, mixed with fibrous and encephaloid substance, were found within the medullary tube of the remaining portion of the femur. The femoral, iliac, and cer- vical absorbent glands were converted into fibrous and encephaloid substance, with osseous deposits in its centre. Many encephaloid growths were found in the pleura, pericardium, and lungs; and there was a large mass of the same substance de- posited around and within the coats of the vena cava superior.] E. Viclorin, De Ossibus tuberosis. Upsal, 1717. Holler, Disp. Chir. t. iv. p. .561. P. II. Mcehring, De Ex- ostosi Steatomatode Clavicula;, ej iisdem felici Sectione- Gedani, 1732. J. Canpart, De lixostosl Cranii rariore. Arerent, 1730. ./. R. Payolle, De Exostosi, Monsp. 1774. Ahernethy, 'm Trans, for the Improvement of Med. and Clilr. Knowledgs, vol. ii. p. 309. Bonn, Uescriptio Thesauri Ossium Hoviani. Ditmon/, Journ. de. M^d. t. xiii. Hist, do I'Acad. di'S Sciences, 1737. P- 28. Iloustet, in M<?m. de I'Acad. de Cliir. t. iii. Mftlani, De Osseis Tumorlbus, p. 20. I'etii, Trait*! des Mai. des Os, t. ii. Morgngni, De Sedihus, &c. ep. 50, art. 56. Kulmus, De Exostosi Claviculie. JIaller, Collect. Dis. Chir. t. iv. R. Keate, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. x. Sir A. Cooper, SurRical Essays, part i. 8vn. Lond. 1818. J. P. Lobitlcin, Compte de son Mus6e Anatoniique, p. 24, &c. 8vo. Strasb. 1820. /;. }iell, on Dis. of fiones, chap. iv. 12mo. Edinb. 1828. IK../. Wickham,Ovt. Dis. of the .Foiiits, p. 6, 8vo. ■Winchester, 1833. Herbert Mai/o, Outlines of Unman rntholOKy, p. II. 8vo. Lond. 1835. CatalORue of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, London, 4to. [Mullcr's \TC\m, 1843. C'/k'/Zk.?, Translated by fiottth, 1847. Nflalon, Eldmens de Pathologic Chirurfficnle, vol. ii. 1848. Stanley, Treatise on Diseases of the liones, 1849. I'agcVs Lectures on Surgical I'athology, 1853.] EXTRAVASATION (from exjira, out of, and ms, a vessel). A term, applied by surgeons to the passage of fluids out of their proper vessels, or re- ceptacles. Thus, when blood is effused on the surface, or in the ventricles of the brain, it is said that there is an extravasation. When blood is poured from the vessels into the cavity of the peritoneum, in wounds of the abdomen, or when the contents of any of the intestines are effused in the same way, siugeons call this accident an extravasation. The urine is also said to be extravasated, when, in con- sequence of a wound, or of sloughing, or ulceration, it makes its way into the cellular substance, or among the abdominal viscera. When the bile spreads among the convolutions of the bowels, in wounds of the gall-bladder, this is a species of ex- travasation. In wounds of the thorax, or abdomen, an extravasation of blood also frequently happens in the cavity of the pleura or peritoneum. Large quantities of blood are often extravasated in conse- quence of vessels being ruptured by violent blows : in the scrotum, on the shoulder, and under the scalp, this effect is observed with particular fre- quency. (See EccHYMOSis.) In the articles, Head, Injuries op, and Wounds, I have treated of extravasations of blood in the cranium, chest, and abdomen. EYE, CANCER AND EXTIRPATION OF, One of the well-known characters of carcinoma in general is to attack persons advanced in age, rather than children and young subjects. According to Scarpa, and, indeed,the sentiments of several other surgeons of the present day, cancer is always preceded by scirrhus, or a morbid indur- ation of the part affected. As the disorganisation increases in this hard scirrhous substance, an ichorous fluid is formed in cells within it, and after- wards extends towards the external surface of the tumor, causing ulceration of the investing parts. The compact and apparently fibrous mass is then converted into a malignant fungous ulcer, of a livid, or cineritious colour, with edges everted, and irre- gularly excavated, and with a discharge of acrid, offensive sanies. The scirrhus, composing the base of the malignant fungus, instead of increasing in size, now rather diminishes, but retains all its original hardness, and, after arising a certain way above the ulcerated surface, is destroyed at various points by the same ulcerative process from which it originated. And, if any part of the livid fungous sore seem disposed to heal, it is a deceitful ap- pearance, as, in a little time, the smooth points are again attacked by ulceration. To relate in this place all the differences between cancer and fungug lirematodes of the eye would be superfluous, as the subject is elsewhere considered (see Cancer and FuNfjus II/EMATODEs); but I may briedy advert to a few remarkable points of diversity. 1st, The primary origin of fungus ha;matodes is generally in the clioroid. 2ndly, True cancer of the eyeball, when it begins on any part of the organ itself, instead of commencing as fungus hfcmatodos at the deepest part of the eye, may originate in any of the coats of the eye. 3rdly, Cancer of the eye appears to Scarpa less destructive than fungus hinmatodes, bcciuise it begins on the exterior parts of the eye, so that whatever relates to the origin and formation of the disease is open to observation; and because a cancerous fungus on its first appearance, is not, according to his views, actually malignant, but be- comoa so in process of time, or from improper treat-