61,5 EMPHYSEMA. times it fullows a rupture of the .air-cells, or piis- sages, by the air itself. One common cause is a fractured rib, by which the air vesicles of the lungs are wounded, so that the air escapes from them into the cavity of the thorax. But, as the rib, at the moment of its being fractured, is pushed inwards, and wounds the pleura, which lines the ribs and intercostal muscles, part of the air most commonly passes through the pleura, into the cellular tissue, on the outside of the chest, and thence is diffused through the same over the whole body, so as to inflate it sometimes in an extra- ordinary degree. Emphysema is frequent after a fractured rib, in cases where there is a wide hiceration of the lungs, and no exit for the air; it is less frequent in large wounds with a knife, or broad sword, because the air has an open and unimpeded issue ; it is again more frequent in deep stabs with bayonets, or small swords ; and it often follows gunshot wounds of the chest, particularly those in which the ribs are splintered. (See J, Bdl, On Wounds of the Breast, p. 265.) Emphj'sema has also been known to arise from a rupture of the larynx and trachea, produced by a blow, or kick, as is exemplified in the case re- ported by Dr. L. O'Brien. (See Edin. Med. and Surrj. Journ. No. Ixxii.) The emphysematous swelling, wheresoever situated, is easily distinguished from oedema, or anasarca, by the crepitation which occurs on handling it, or by the noise, resembling that which is heard on compressing a dry bladder half filled with air. The tumour is colourless and free from pain. It does not form especially in depending parts, though by pressure it may be made to change its situation. It is elastic, that is to say, it may be pressed down, but it rises up again as soon as the pressure is discontinued. The swelling never retains the impression of the end of the finger, or, in the language of surgery, never pits. The part is not heavy. The tumour first makes its appearance in one particular place ; but soon extends, and causes an extraordinary distension of the skin. {RiclUer's Anfanysyr. der Wundarzn. b. i. p. 451.) In bad cases, the patient complains of a con- siderable tightness of the chest, with pain, chiefly in the situation of the injury, and great difBculty of breathing. This obstruction of respiration gra- dually increases, and becomes more and more insupportable. The patient soon finds himself unable to lie down in bed, and cannot breathe, unless when his body is in the upright posture, or ho is sitting a little inclined forward. In vain he endeavours to articulate a few words ; at each inspiration a fresh column of air escapes from the breach in the lung, and renders his condition wojje. Together with these symptoms, there is sometimes bloody expectoration, announcing a deep wound of the lungs. (See C'qse hy Du- pv.ylrcn, in Clin. Chir. t. i. p. 117.) The coun- tenance becomes dusky and puffed. The pulse, at first weak and contracted, becomes afterwards irregular. The extremities grow cold ; and, if the patient continue unrelieved, he soon dies sufl'o- cated. The diagnosis is not always free from obscurity, especially when emphysema is deeply seated, with- out any external tumour. An accumulation of air in one of the cavities of the pleura, however, is attended with an elevation and expansion of the ribs on the injured side, a clear sound on percus- sion, and excessive difliculty of breathing. Ill one example, where the fifth and sixth ribs were broken, there was, in addition to other symptoms already enumerated, an internal hissing sound at each expiration. (Beyin, Diet, de J\Jid, et de Chir. Pratiques, t. vii. p. 117.) For other symp- toms and signs of the presence of air in the cavities of the pleura, see Pneumo-thokax. The wound of the parietal pleura and intercostal muscles may sometimes be too small to suflfer the air to get readily into the cellular tissue, and inflate it ; in such case a portion of the air may be con- fined in the cavity of the thorax, so as to compress the lungs, prevent their expansion, and cause the same symptoms of tightness of the chest, quick breathing, and sense of suffocation, which the serous fluid does in hydrops pectoris or the pus in empyema. {Heivson, in Med. Ohs. and Inq. vol. iii.) To understand why the air passes at all out of the wound of the lungs, we must advert to the manner in which inspiration and expiration are naturally carried on. In the perfect state, the surface of the lungs alwaysliesin close contact with the membrane lining the chest, both in inspiration and expiration. The lungs themselves are chiefly passive organs, having only a slight contractile power, depending upon their elasticity. They are incapable^'by any action of their own, of expanding and contracting, so as to maintain their external surface always in contact with the inside of the thorax, which is continually undergoing an alternate change of dimensions. Every muscle, that has any share in enlarging and diminishing the capacity of the chest, must contribute to the eiFect of adapting the volume of the lungs to the cavity in which they are contained, so long as there is no com- munication between the cavity of the pleura and the external air. In inspiration, the thorax is en- larged in every direction ; the lungs are expanded in the same way ; and the air, entering through the windpipe into the air-cells of these organs, prevents the occurrence of a vacuum. But, when a free communication exists between the atmosphere and the pleural cavity, in conse- quence of a wound, no sooner is this cavity ex- panded, than the air naturally enters it at the same time, and for the same reasons, that the air enters the lungs through the trachea ; in conse- quence of this the lung itself remains proportionally collapsed. When the thorax is again contracted, in expiration, the air is compressed out of the lung, and also out of the sac of the pleura, through the external wound, if there be a direct one ; in which circumstance, the emphysematous swelling is never extensive. But, in the case of a fractured rib,attended with a breach in the pleura costalis, pleura pulmoualis, and air-cells of the lung, there is no direct com- mimication between the cavity of the chest and the external air ; in other words, there is no outward wound in the parietes of the thorax. There is, however, a preternatural opening formed between the air-cells of the lung and the cavity of the chest, and also another one between the latter space and the general cellular tissue of the body, through the breach in the pleura costalis. The consequence is, that when the chest is expanded in inspiration, air rushes from the wound in tho surface of the lung, II a -t