894 , . HEAD, INJURIES OF THE vM^h''> "^1"^ °^ '-^"d the sella Turcica dal cells and cnhnforn, plate of the ethmoid bone the'durT' " proved most cleariy tha thl tu T '^'"■'•''^P''"ding to the fracture in ti e sella Turcica was torn. The laceration was about an inch in length. Some water, dropped on tills spot, made its way into the nostrils. The visceral arachnoid corresponding to the anterior lobes ot the brain was also torn. The state of this membrane on the side of the pituitary body was not exactly made out." ^ It is unnecessary to multiply cases of this de- scription, of which many are now recorded Thev all pomt to very similar conditions, namely, watery discharges in large quantity from the nostrils and mouth after severe injuries to the skull, in which when death occurs, iracture is discovered in that poition of the base which forms the roof of the nose In some cases, but they are few, recovery takes place; to these exception may be taken. There IS one circumstance which ought not to be wholly overlooked m estimating the value of this pheno- menon as a symptom of fractured base, namely, the Schneiderian membrane itself, which under inflammation is well known to secrete an enor- mous quantity of clear watery fluid, in appear- ance resembling the cerebro-spiual secretion from tne arachnoid cavity. That similar watery discharges may occur after compound fracture of the vault of the cranium when the arachnoid membrane is lacerated, is proved also by cases collected by Mr. Hewett. We shall content ourselves with relating two cases alluded to by him as they illustrate the fact that there are two distinct sources whence the fluid flows. The first case is mentioned by M. Robert, and is that of " a man est. 23, who was admitted into the Hospital -beaujon with a compound fracture of the ri.rht parietal bone in the top of the head; on the fol- lowing morning the lips of the wound were slightly united except at the posterior angle,where there was a small opening through which was flowing a clear watery fluid. In oozing through the wound this lluid presented pulsations synchronous with those of the arteries; and when the. patient coughed or made any efibrt, these pulsations became more marked, and the fluid came away in larger quan- tities The fluid was decidedly watery, perfectly Jimpid, and saltish to the taste. On the third day there was no more watery discharge, and the wound appeared 'to be united in its whole lenatli • but shortly afterwards, as the patient was laughing with one of his comrades, the wound gave way and the fluid appeared again. It then continued tottow for two days, and flnallv ceased altogether, -ne^was soon discharged cured." "A man who was rather the worse for liquor was knocked over by the explosion of a box coii- tainiiig fireworks. He received an enormous wound laying bare an extensive fracture on the iron il bone was detached, and the brain protruded through a rent ,n the dura mater. Large portions the w«,"l^^«'l"ently sloughed away, after which Lve e°, °",-\h«='ltliy aspect- and became fluid fir'; ^■■''■"''ations. A discharge of watery nuKl f.om the wound now took place: the fluid. Perf..rtl,r 1 , c"oic place; the flu d, 'Cdi d ,r?,.'' -T' '''"^'l P"'^'"'"" the brain. I'scharge ot watery fluid, which went on for ml ; ? °P="insturied in the died It h 'i'he man ultimately died. At the examination of tlie head, the minute opening through which the watery discharge l ad ^'ken place was found to lead directlyTifto he itS"-hich'had ihli: n.i'i Tl "'fr^'^' ""'^"'^ observation, and 0 which allusion is made in another part of this ar icle, a cyst containing a thin limpid fluid pr truded through an opening i„ the skull of a child who was the subject of hernia cerebri, which had been completely cicatrised. In consequence of irregular symptoms of pressure and the sudden increase ,n the size of the swelling, it was punc- tured, and at least half an ounce of thin watery fluid escaped. On examination after death, an open- ing was found in the centre of the fungus which led directly into the lateral ventricles. llence it is apparent tliat the watery discharge accompanying wounds of the dura mater in fractures may aris^ rom the sub-arachnoid space, and from the ven- tricles of the brain. In both the termination is generally unfortunate. But recovery, as has been already shown, occasionally happens under the former condition, but we are not aware of any recorded instance of this in the latter; it is clear however, that the source of the discharge iu this can only be made out accurately after death. V\^e quote from the Medical Times and Gazelle for xUay 21 St, 18o9, a remarkable case of fractured base of the skull with discharge of brain and wa ery fluid from the ear, in which a recovery took place. The case is taken from the American Journal y A/edical Science for April, p. 354 A sailor, in an epileptic fit, fell from the spar to the' mam deck, down the fore hatchway, and struck the crown of his head. He became insensible with stertorous breathing, and blood flowed copiously from the right ear. It was estimated that from mty to sixty ounces had thus escaped. The next day serum was discharged from the ear with small particles of brain. The serous discharge continued for several days ; but in rather more than a month after he was able to return to his dutv, the waterr discharge continuing for another month, at one time putting on a purulent character. It is very necessaiy, however, to be cautious in concluding from a cursory examination that the substance re- sembling brain is true cerebral matter, for the fi- I brine of extravasated blood has been occasionally mistaken for it. A well-marked case of recover)'- after all the admitted signs of fracture of the base occurred in St. Mary's Hospital in 1854, under the care of Mr. Spencer Smith. The patient, a lad a;t. 15, was injured by a large van passing over his head; Jie had long-continued bleeding from both ear and nose, and so much discharge of watery fluid from the ear that an ounce was collected in "half an hour on more than one occasion. On regaining con- sciousness he was found to have paralysis of the portio dura on the injured side, deafness, and con- siderable difficulty of speech. He recovered, and has been employed ever since as a porter in the hospital. Ho has lost the deafness, the paralysis lias nearly passed away, and the articulation is as perfect as before the accident. There are various reasons for the fatalif.)' of frac- ture of the base of the skull: unquestionably the most common cause for this is the enormous violence