^1*^ ilEAD, INJURIES OF THE symptoms of concussion and compression. In concus- sion there is a sudden arrest of the functions of the brain, which, after a longer or shorter period, are gradually or suddenly restored ; in compression, if from depressed bone, tlie sensorial functions are either wholly arrested or so far interfered with as to lead to some serious derangement, which con- tinues until the depressed bone is elevated ; if the compression arises from effused blood, this con- dition supervenes gradually, and continues until absorption takes place or the patient is relieved by operation. In concussion the temperature of the surface of the body sinks below its natural level ; in compression it is generally natural. In concussion the pulse is quick, weak, irregu- lar, and occasionally intermits; in compression it is slow and labouring, sometimes as low as forty or even thirty-six in a minute. In con- cussion the pupil of the eye is sometimes con- tracted, or if dilated, as is frequently the case, it contracts on the application of light; in compression it is dilated and immovably fixed. In concussion the breathing is natural iind regular ; in compres- sion it is slow, labouring, and stertorous. In concussion the sphincters continue their proper office; in compression they are relaxed. In con- cussion there is an absence of hemiplegia, which exists in compression. In concussion a temporary paralysis of a single muscle or class of muscles, as the muscles of the face and the abducens oculi, occasionally exists; but persistent paralysis may be regarded as the result of pressure rather than of concussion. Finally, it may be assumed that what- ever disorder of the cerebral faculties arises from injury of the head, it has generally a tendency to spontaneous cure in concussion ; whilst in compres- sion it persists until the cause of pressure is removed. There are other symptoms of an equivocal cha- racter in compression requiring attention, and some further remarks on the rationale symptomatum may be here made : thus a fixed pain in the head may frequently be regarded as indicative of pressure on the brain, especially if accompanied bj' any other sign. Thus, in a case mentioned by Sir Benjamin Brodie, after an injury to the skull the only symp- toms were a fixed pain in the head and a preter- natural dilatation of the pupil of one eye : in this case a portion of the parietal bone was found de- pressed ; the depressed bone was raised, and the pain ceased immediate!}''. A case is related by Sir Astley Cooper which shows the importance of this symptom: a man suffered from extravasation of blood in the substance of the brain from an acci- dent; he had recovered considerably, although pain in the head continued ; he died three months afterwards, and on examination a coagulum of blood was found in the anterior lobe of the cere- brum. No distinction can be made of the kind or degree of insensibility in concussion and compres- sion; where insensibility comes on gradually after the patient has recovered somewhat from the primary effects of concussion, it may reasonably be imputed to pressure from the pouring out of blood. A simple ilhistration of this may be given in a case related by Sir Benjamin Brodie : " A woman re- ceived a blow upon the head, after which she was able to walk iiorne, complaining that her head was hurt, and that slie had received her death-blow. In an hour after the accident slie gradually became insensible. About fourteen hours afterwards, she was brought to St. George's Hospital labouring under symptoms precisely corresponding to those described by Mr. Abernethy as arising from con- cussion. These symptoms continued, and even rather abated than increased, until the third day when an aggravation took place and she expired On exammation eight ounces of blood were found effused beneath the dura mater." An interesting example of a similar character occurred under our own observation, and doubtless parallel instances will suggest themselves to all surgeons of experi- ence. A young man was knocked down whilst fight- ing and was stunned ; he speedily recovered his senses, and was brought to the London Hospital complaining of pain in his head. As he walked along the ward he began to stagger, and with dif- ficulty reached his bed ; his breathing became " stertorous, and he was evidently hemiplegic. A swelling was found in the temporal region of one side, and on dividing the skin a fracture was de- tected. The trephine was instantly applied, and a large coagulum was found on the surface of the dura mater. He recovered completely. _ When insensibility depends on depressed bone, it IS often extremely difficult to distinguish it from that which occurs in simple concussion. The diagnosis must be formed from its intensity and duration; but under any circumstances we maybe deceived, for in severe cases of concussion this symptom may even co-exist with stertor and other signs of compression, and after a time they may all pass off and leave no ill effects behind. The trephine is therefore not to be hastily resorted to: the patient must be carefully watched, and if the symptoms gradually diminish in intensity it is better to wait, as there is great probability of their entire cessation under suitable treatment. If, on the contrary, insensibility continues, and if the breath- ing becomes more stertorous, and the pulse con- tinues slow and labouring, and especially if paralysis IS present, it may be regai-ded as an important and positive indication of pressure on the brain. Some- times a sense of numbness in a particular part re- mains as the sole result of pressure after all other signs have disappeared. Insensibility, as shown in a total loss of the sense of sight or hearino-, fre- quently depends on pressure, yet it is not an in- fallible sign, and therefore cannot be considered pathognomonic. We must rely generally, in the formation of our diagnosis, rather on a combination of symptoms than on any individual sign. There is, perhaps, no symptom of pressure on the brain equal in importance to paralysis : it is certainly the most constant, and therefore the most to be depended upon. There is no doubt that even in the worst forms of the disease it may be altogether absent ; nevertheless, when- ever it continues after the effects of'concussion may be said to have passed away, it may be regarded as an almost certain sign of pressure. In the common forms or milder degrees of pressure, the muscular system of animal life, as the volun- tary muscles, is alone affected; whilst in the more severe forms of the disease tlie muscular s3-stem of organic life, and the sphincter muscles, which are under the influence of the excito-motory system of nerves, also become paralj^sed. When hemiplegia results from pressure on the ce- rebrum, the voluntary muscles are affected on the side opposite to the seatof pressure. This isan axiom in surgical pathology. There can be no doubt on this subject: thefactis universal,and lias been recognised