86 AMPUTATION. Isl Method, recommended by Lisfranc, by a flap im the ulnar side.—The soft parts are to be drawn wards this side and transfixed opposite the arti- ilation; the knife is to be carried forwards, being pt as close as possible to the bone, as far as about if an inch beyond themetacarpo-phalangeal joint, ae flap thus made is held back, and the joint (iiiened; the bone is then separated from the soft I arts, and its detachment completed by division of I u' commissure. '2ml Method, by Oval Incision.—This is done on tiie same principle as in the thumb. A straight incision is commenced a little behind the articuLi- ti.iii, and is carried forwards on the dorsal surface of t'le metacarpal bone as far as its centre; from it two tii verging incisions should pass so as to form a sort "1 loop round the root of the little finger. The e iges of the wound being held apart, the bone may til en be disarticulated and separated from the soft structures still adhering to it.] [ Amputation op the First, Second, or Third Fingers at their carpal ARTictiLATioNs.] [It is not often that removal of one onlj^ of these ,'ers with its metacarpal bone will be required; t, if necessary, it will be most conveniently ef- ted by a straight incision along the back of the •tacarpal bone, forming a loop round the root of the ^rer, as recommended in the last case. This will iiiit of disarticulation and separation of the bone, i. ithout interfering in any way with the palm of •'le hand. The proceeding will be attended with : y considerable difficulty from the closeness of ■ joints and the proximity of the other meta- pal bones on each side; it will, therefore, be ^t'ntial that the operator should have an exact l;now!edge of the position of the joints and of the direction of the articular surfaces. Care should be t iken not to wound the deep palmar arch when the knife is being applied to the palmar aspect of ti e bone.] [Amputation op all the Fingers at the Carpal Articulations.] [Modem surgeons never amputate the whole of th; hand when there is a chance of saving any |i irtion of it. A single finger should, if possible, I'l' preserved; and if the thumb and one finger can 1 ' retained, a very useful member, comparatively riking, will be the result. On this principle it ^ even been thought desirable, in cases rcquir- 1 g it, to remove all four fingers with their meta- carpal bones, leaving only the thumb. In the latter case, the hand being prone, a transverse incision f'wiiild be made upon its dorsal aspect, half an inch Iront of the carpo-metacarpal joints. This in- 1 in should commence over the metacarpal bone of ■ forefinger, and, after passing across the hand, aiuld be carried round its ulnar border, and made to traverse its palmiir surface at the same level. There remain to be divided the structures between the thumb and forefinger, which may be done by passing the knife through them from behind for- wards. The skin being drawn up by an assistant, the metacarpal bones may be disarticulated one by one, commencing from the ulnar side.] Amputation at the Wrist or Radio- carpal Articulation, \ The hand should be amputated at the joint of the wrist, whenever the disease does not extend too high, and a sufficient covering can be preserved either from the integuments of the back of the band, or from those of the palm. Amputation may also be done here by the circular incision, or by anterior and posterior flaps as recommended by Lisfranc. The circumstances of the case will often determine the choice; but whenever it is practic- able the circular incision should be preferred, as it will be found to provide a better coverhig for the projecting styloid processes. The scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones form a convexity, which is almost entirely received in the concavity of the radius, the ulna having no connection with this joint, except through the intervention of the triangular ligament, and to the extent of about four lines. The styloid processes of the radius and ulna can be readily felt, and they overlap the articulation on either side, so that to enter the joint the knife should be directed obliquely upwards beneath them. In this way the articulation will be arrived at with greater cer- tainty than from its dorsal surface, for in attempt- ing to enter it from the latter direction the surgeon niight erroneously carry his knife into the medic- carpal articulation, over the head of the os magnum, instead of into the wrist joint itself. The projection of the pisiform bone bej-ond the level of the palmar surfaces of the radius and ulna, must be remembered in the operation. Amputation by the circular method is performed as follows: — An assistant draws up the integu- ments, and the surgeon, holding in his left hand the part he is about to remove, makes an incision all round the wrist, about an inch below the sty- loid processes. The skin maj' now be easily re- tracted nearly as high as the joint ; a second incision, made so m to leave the pisiform and cunei- form bones just beyond it, divides all the tendons on a level with the retracted skin. The joint is then to be cut into on one side or the other, under the guidance of the corresponding styloid process, and the knife directed through the articulation in a line answering to the posterior convexity of the scaphoid, lunar, and cuneiform bones. The radial and ulnar arteries are now to be tied, but the inter- osseous here seldom requires a ligature. The wound is to be closed with the line of it in the transverse direction. [Fkqj amputations at the tcrisi should be per- formed by cutting from without inwards; trans- fixion of the soft parts being difficult anteriorly, in consequence of the prominences of bone in the neighbourhood of the joint; and next to impossible posteriorly, on account of the convexity of the posterior surface of the carpus. The "incisions should commence opposite the styloid processes, and two semilunar flaps should be formed rather more than an inch in length, from the integuments on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the wrist. These should be dissected up to the requisite e.\tent and the tendons divided, after which the disarticulation may be completed in the same way as in the circular operation. Or the dorsal flap may be first formed and the joint then opened on its posterior aspect by division of the posterior and lateral ligaments, after which the knife can he carried through the joint, to complete the opera- tion by the formation of the second flap from the palm. The latter part of this proceeding is, however, rendered difficult by the projection of the a 3