ARTERIES. ■iere the situation of the artery corresponds to the mid point between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the tuberosity of the os pubis ; though, in women, in whom the pelvis is wider, the artery is rather nearer the pubes. Tlie vessel may also be readily felt as it is passing over the OS pubis, being only covered by the integu- ments, superficial fascia, some lymphatic glands, and the fascia lata. Immediately below Poupart's ligament, the femoral vein lies on the pubic side of the artery. The anterior crural nerve lies about half an inch away from the iliac side of the arterj-, iiiibedded between the iliac and psoas muscles. (See Han-ison's Sury. Anat. of Art. vol. ii. p. 136.) In the operation, the limb should be extended and rotated outwards; an incision made, beginning about an inch above Poupart's ligament, and ex- tended downwards in the direction of the artery, to the distance of two inches below this ligament. The layers of the superficial fascia are then to be divided to the same e-ttent; and any lymphatic gland in the way pushed to one side, or, if enlarged and diseased, removed. The fascia lata is next to be divided, and the sheath of the femoral vessels pinched up with a pair of forceps, and cautiously opened. Lastly, the aneurism-needle, or eye- probe, used for the conveyance of the ligature under the artery, is to be introduced on the "pubic side of this vessel, between it and the vein, so as to leave the latter completely safe. As in some in- dividuals the origin of the profunda is unusually high up, and of nearly the same size as the femoral, one of them might be mistaken for the other. The profunda, however, is the more external of the two. The effect of pressure on each, in checking the haemorrhage, or the pulsation of an aneurism, will also be a guide to the operator. (See Harrison, op. et. vol. cit. p. 160.) Sometimes a double femoral artery has been met with. The direction, given by M. Malgaigne, to place the ligature as closely as possible above the origin of the profunda {Man. de Med. Opir. p. 188)", if adopted, would be very likely to be followed by secondary hjemorrhage, for reasons elsewhere ex- plained. (See H/EMORRHAGE.) The operation of ((/ra^ the femoral artery in tlie middle third of the thiyh, not having been fully described in the article Aneurism, I annex the following particulars :—This artery, in its course from the crural arch to the lower third of the thigh, runs in the direction of a line, which, drawn from the centre of Poupart's ligament, descends obliquely inwards round the limb to the middle of the popliteal space. This description is nearly correct; but, as Dr. Quain observes, as this line runs along the inner surface of the thigh, its course is more oblique than that of the vessel, which is placed much nearer the shaft of the femur. (Elem. of Amit. p. ,505, ed. 2.) In the middle third of the thigh, the femoral artery is more deeply placed than in the upper, because, in addition to the integuments, superficial fascia, and fascia lata, it has the sartorius lying upon it, beneath which there is also another fascia extended over it, from the adductor muscle to the vastus internus. This fascia, though thin above, becomes very dense where the artery approaches the opening in the adductor ningnus. In the groin, the femoral vein lies close to the inner side of the artery, hut, as it descends, it gets more under the latter vessel, and, in the popliteal space, it is situated quite to the outer side of it. 207 An incisioD, three inches in length, is to be made along the inner edge of the sartorius, which is the common rule, and perhaps better than Lisfranc's modification, which consists in making an incision of this length in the mid space between the gracilis and sartorius ; for, by exposing the fibres of the latter muscle, their very course affords useful in- struction to the surgeon ; for he then knows immedi- ately where he is, and what ought to be done. The integuments and superficial fiiscia having been divided, and the fascia lata to the same extent, the inner edge of the sartorius is exposed. This is to be gently raised, and drawn outwards. The fascia, extending from the vastus internus to the adductor, and covering the artery, is brought into view, and with the aid of a pair of forceps, and a director, it is to be cautiously opened, by which means the sheath of the femoral vessels will be exposed. Here the long saphenous nerve lies within the sheath, on the anterior and external side of the arter)', and care should be taken not to include it in the ligature. Lastl}', the aneurism-needle is to be conveyed under the artery, between it and the vein, in making the incision through the integuments, the great saphenous vein should be avoided, by not direct- ing the knife too obliquely downwards and back- wards. In addition to what has been stated in the article Aneurism, respecting the liyature of the brachial artery, I may observe, that the course of this vessel corresponds to an oblique line drawn from the armpit to the middle of the bend of the elbow. The median nerve, which above runs along its radial margin, soon gets in front of it, and, crossing it very obliquely, passes quite to its ulnar side below. Two satellite veins usually ac- company the artery, and even sometimes cover it, and thus separate it from the median nerve. The ulnar and internal cutaneous nerves, which lie near it above, separate further and further from It as they descend, in order to reach the inner part of the fore-arm. The artery, lying at first near the fiumerus, between the coraco-brachial is and the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, afterwards passes over the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, and gets upon the brachialis anticus, a little behind the inner margin of the biceps, which last muscles it accompanies to its termination. In the supine state of the hand, the brachial artery is less covered by the biceps; and hence, in the operation of taking it up, this position is advantageous. (See Manec, Man. de Med. Opcr. p. 166.) In thin sub- jects, the fascia is almost contiguous to it and sends off a duplicature to include the artery, its two accompanying veins, and the median nerve', all which form, as it wore, one common fasciculus ' The whole is covered by the common int'effu ments, and in the lower third of the arm bv the trunk of the basilic vein. The anomalies of the brachia artery are very frequent. Velpeau, and mos other surgeons, have seen it divide near the axilla, and at nearly every other point between tins and the elbow. In one subject, Velpeau found Its bifurcation take place two inches above tlio trochlea of the humerus, to form the ulnar and posterior interosseous. In another, the hitter was completely independent of both the ulnar and the radial. Sometimes the two trunks, produced by the bifurcation, pass down to the fore-arm pa- rallel to one another ; in other instances, they cross once, or several times ; and it is not uncommon to