CHAMBERS turs, on tte plan tecommended by Mr. Crowtlier. (See Blisters.) CERATUM SAPONIS. (P. L.) 9.. Sapoms ? X. CercE, 3 xijss. Plumbi oai/di contriti, 3 xv. OUccD old 0. j. Aceti c. j. Boil the vinegar with the oxide over a slow fire, constantly stirring them until they incoiporate ; then add the soap, and boil again in like manner, until all the moisture is evaporated ; lastly, with these mix the wax, first dissolved in the oil. [CHAMBERS OF THE EYE.] [Inflam- mation. in the Aqueous cJiamber. Aquo cap- sulitis. It seems doubtful whether we are jns- tified anatomically in using the term, aquo cap- sulitis ; recent investigations show that there is no distinct membrane lining the aqueous chamber. The disease is probably seated in the inner or elastic laminaof the cornea, and extends slightlyand super- ficially over the surface of the iris : perhaps the term " corneo-iritis " would most correctly indicate its true seat. This disease resembles in some respects "true comeitis;" it occurs most frequently in children, and in young adults; it comes on very insidiously, usually attacks one eye at a time, and is often limited .to one eye. The pain is slight; there is but little intolerance of light; the patient chiefly complains of dulness of vision; the sclerotic vessels around the margin of the cornea are considerably injected. On examining the cornea carefully, it is observed to be quite smooth and bright on its sur- face instead of finely granular, as in corneitis; and upon the inner layers of the cornea are some to- lerably well-defined whitish spots or patches, va- rying very much in size, shape, and thickness; but they are usually round, and most thickly studded near the centre of the cornea. It is very difficult to ascertain how far the iris is involved, because looking through an altered medium its colour seems changed, and its natural transparency lost. This, however, is frequently not the case in the early stage of the disease, aa shown by the perfect activity of the pupil; and when it does extend to the iris it seems to be limited to the delicate membrane cover- ing this structure, and not to invade its proper tex- ture, because the pupil can generally be acted upon by belladonna; and when the cornea regains its transparency no change is observable in the iris, ex- cept some slight adhesions to the capsule of the lens. This disease presents great varieties as regards its intensity. In some cases almost the only evidence of the disease ia the presence of a few small well- defined spots on the inner surface of the cornea, the remaining parts being clear and bright, and vision being only slightly interfered with, and there being little or no increase of vascularity; whereas, in the other extreme, the patches on the inner surface .are larger, more irregular in shape, and denser, and the intermediate parts of the cornea are hazy; the sur- face of the cornea is dull and vascular; the scle- rotic vessels are much injected, and there is severe dull aching pain and intolerance of light; vision is also very seriously impaired. This disease may often be traced to some remote syphilitic taint, either he- reditary or acquired, but usually the former. It is very protracted in its duration,and does not seem to yield to any specific plan of treatment, but usually passes away from the inner surface of the cornea at the end of some months, leaving in the more se- vere cases some adhesions of the pupillary niargin, The treatment should be principally directed to the establishment of general power, Prepara- OP THE EYE. 45^ tions of iodine and the iodide of^ron seem useful; and where any syphilitic taint is suspected small doses of mercury are indicated and appear to act as a tonic. This medicine is of particular value in those cases which one might call strumo-syphilitic, occurring in children from eight to twelve years of age, the condition of the eyes forming part of a group of symptoms, resembling very closely the tertiary forms of syphilis, such as loss of the soft palate, exfoliation about the nasal bones, periosteal inflammations, &c. The local treatment should be merely soothing: and where there is reason to sus- pect that the iris is involved, belladonna may be advantageously employed in the early stages, to prevent adhesions and to counteract any tendency to closed pupil. Pus in the anterior cliamber. When pus is formed in the anterior cliamber, it gravitates to the lower part of the cavity, and to this condition the term hypopion is applied (see art. HyponoN). As this is a symptom resulting from various causes, it is not correct to describe it as a separate disease ; but it may be convenient to mention some of the usual sources of this morbid product within the aqueous chamber. The most common cause of pus in this situation, is the occurrence of an ulcer upon the inner surface of the cornea, correspond- ing to a similar ulcer on its external surface, the middle laminEe remaining entire; the matter may often be seen trickling down from the ulcerated part to the bottom of the anterior chamber, where it remains during the upright posture, but readily passes to either side when the head is sufficiently inclined either way; another source of this symp- tom is an abscess between the layers of the cornea bursting internally ; occasionally in very acute inflammation of the aqueous chamber, pus is poured -out into this cavity without any evidence either of an ulcerated surface or of a false mem- ' brane. An organised tubercle upon the iris may suppurate and thus become a source of this symptom, and in one or two rare instances I have seen hypopion follow a severe attack oE fever in an eye, in other respects perfectly normal and free from every trace of inflammatory action. The presence of matter in the anterior chamber is of no moment, except as it forms an index and measure of the amount and severity of diseased action that is going on in the eye. It has been sug- gested to evacuate it with a small cutting needle, but this would be a rash and injurious proceeding, un- less the extreme pain and seventy of the general sj'mptoms indicated aggravation from tension of the globe, when great relief may follow the evacuation of the pus together with some of the aqueous hu- mour. Such cases must be treated in other respects upon general principles — warm and soothing ap- pliances being more particularly indicated where pus is present. Blood in the anterior chamber. Occasion- ally blood is found in the anterior chamber ; it is usually the result of a blow, but in a few rare instances it has been found to be vi- carious with the menstrual function. Blood be- comes readily absorbed in this situation, excepting in people who suft'er from some dyscrasia as diabetes mellitus, albuminuria, &c., wliere the blood may remain unchanged for years. In cases of injury it is important to give a guarded prognosis, as it pro- bably results from such an amount of violence as will cause Borae permanent injury to one or more G u 3 '