DISLOCATION, depends «pon the extent and variety of motion in such joints. Thus, in the short bones of the car- pus, and particularly of the tarsus, and at the carpal and tarsal extremities of the metacarpal and meta- tai-sa bones, where flat broad surfaces are held together by ligaments, strong, numerous, and partly interarticular, and where only an obscure degree of motion can take place {arthrodia), disloca- tions are unfrequent, and can only be produced bv uncommon violence. It is in the loose joints (enar- Mrosw) which admit of motion in every direction that dislocations most frequently occur ; as is exem- plihed in the joint of the humerus with the scapula On the contrary, ginghjmoid joints, which allow motion only in two directions, are not so often dis- located. The articular surfaces of the latter are of great extent; and, consequently, the heads of _ the bones must be pushed a great way in order to be completely dislocated; and the ligaments are numerous and strong. 2. With respect to the extent of dislocation luxations are either complete or incomplete. The latter term is applied when the articular surfaces still remain partially in contact. Incomplete dis- locations are most frequently seen in ginglymoid articulations, as those of the ankle, knee, and elbow. In these, the luxation is generally incomplete • and very great violence must have operated when the bones are completely dislocated. In the elbow the dislocation is sometimes partial, with respect to the ulna and radius. In the orbicular articu- lations, luxations are usually complete. How- ever the OS humeri sometimes rests upon the edge of the glenoid cavity, and readily returns into Its ^socket. The lower jaw is sometimes par- tially dislocated in a manner different from what is commonly meant by this expression, viz. one of Its condyles is luxated, while the other remains in its natural situation. A partial dislocation sometimes occurs at the ankle-joint. " An ankle was dissected at Guy's and given to the collection of St. Thomas's, which was partially dislocated : the end of the tibia rested still m part upon the astralagus ; but a large por- tion of its surface was seated on the os naviculare, and the tibia, altered by this change of placed had formed two new articular surfaces, with their faces turned in opposite directions towards the two bones. The dislocation had not been re- duced." {Sir A. Cooper.) 3. In the orbicular joints, the head of the bone may be dislocated at any point of their circum- ference ; and the luxations are named accordingly upward, dovmtvard, fonvard, and hacleivard. In the ginglymoid articulations, the bones may be dislocated either laterally, or forward, or back- ward. 4. The length of time a dislocation has existed makes a material difference. In general, recent dislocations may bo easily reduced ; but when the head of a bone has been out of its place several days, the reduction becomes exceedingly difficult; and, in older cases, often impossible. In these latter the soft parts, and the bone itself, have ac- quired a certain position ; the muscles have adapted themselves in length to the altered situation of the Oone to which they are attached, and, sometimes, cannot be lengthened suflicientlv for it to be re- aiicecl. Indeed, I believe that Sir Astley Cooper's statement 18 quite correct, that the difflci'.lty in the reduction, arising from the muscles, is proportioned Desau t and Boyer suspected, that frequent] , bsed'Td' -t f^"^" soon brom- W into 'f'"^ °f the head of the oone- into its original situation. However with regard to the doctrine of the reduction being fi St ever prevented by this cause, I believe, wi P''- j' of foundation. (f^^9^oal Essays part i. p. ]8; and Treatise, 4-0., 7^^'"' Thompson's dissection of a dislocated humerus, the capsular ligament was completely torn from the whole circumference of the humerus. In one of Mr. Crampton's cases it was detached to the extent of more^han ha Ae circumference; and, in an instance of direct dfs! location forwards, the rent was of sufficient extent. but no more, to permit the head of the bone to pass easily through it." (See Thompson, in Med. Obs. and Inq. vol ii. p. 349. Ph. Crampton, in Dublin Journ. of Med. Science, vol. iii. p. 47—49 ) 5. Ihe difference is immense, in regard to the danger of the case, arising from the circumstance ot a dislocation being attended, or unattended, with a wound, communicating, internally with the joint, and externally with the air. When there is no wound of this kind, the danger is generally trivial, and the dislocation is termed simple: but should there be such a wound, together with the dis- location the case IS denominated compound, and is frequently accompanied with peril. Indeed, the atter kind of accident sometimes renders amputa- tion necessary, and, in too many instances, has a fatal termination. _ 6. The causes of dislocations are external or internal. A predisposition to such accidents may depend on circumstances natural, or accidental. Ihe_ great latitude of motion, which the joint admits of; the little extent of the articular sur- taces ; the looseness and fewness of the ligaments • the lowness of one side of the articular cavity, as I the anterior and inferior part of the acetabulum • [ and the 8llallo^vness of the cavity, as of that of the scapula ; are natural predisposing causes of luxations. A paralytic affection of the muscles of a joint, and a looseness of its ligaments, are also pre- disposing causes. When the deltoid muscle has been paralytic, the mere weight of the arm has been known to cause such a lengthening of the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, that the head of the humerus descended two or three inches from the glenoid cavity. Two cases, illustrative of the tendency to dislo- cation from a weakened, or paralytic state of the muscles, are recorded by Sir A. Cooper. Ihe hrst is that of a junior officer of an India ship, who, for some trifling oftVnce, had been placed with his foot upon a small projection on the decl<, while his arm was kept forcibly drawn up to the yardarm for an hour. " When he returned to England, he had the power of readily throwing that arm from its socket, merely by raising it towards his head ; but a very slight extension reduced it. The muscles wore wasted, also, as in the case of paralysis." The other example hap- pened to a young gentleman, troubled with a para- lytic affection of his right side from dentition. " The muscles of the shoulder were wasted, and he had the power of tlirowing his os humeri over the posterior edge of the glenoid cavity of the sciipula,