changed into a greyish pappy substance, capable of being removed from the subjacent iria with a camel-hair pencil. Such an annihilation of tex- ture, however, is generally restricted to particular points, or the surface of the cornea. Wherever this membrane has been so much decomposed that a manifest depression is directly preceptible in it when inspected sideways, a snow-white shining speck must be expected to be the consequence. Slaked lime never operates upon the cornea with so much violence, usually causing (as Beer states) only a superficial corrosion, or a coagulation of the lymph between the layers of the cornea. Nor are mineral acids, even when concentrated, gene- rally so destructive to the cornea as quicklime : first, because, as fluids, they do not long remain in contact with the eye, and secondly, because the immediate mixture of the tears with thera weakens their operation, whereas it only increases that of unslaked lime. The local treatment here consists in carefully removing every particle of the hurt ful substance, afterwards dropping frequently into the eye lukewarm mucilaginous decoctions or col lyria, or covering the injured place with a mild cerate, and excluding the air and light from the eye. Every endeavour must also be made to prevent the formation of adhesions between the injured surfaces. In severe burns of the eyeball, of course all idea of restoring its functions is out of the question, The violence of the injury is the greater, the more numerous the vesicles are upon the conjunctiva, and the more the eyeball and the iris are incapable of motion. Here the only indication is to mode- rate the inflammation, and avert such additional mischief, as might otherwise be produced by it. With this view, the eye should be kept at rest, and excluded from the light and air. According to Beer, the most common injuries of the eye, par- taking both of a mechanical and chemical nature, are those caused by mortar, or the accidental touching of the eye with hot irons. When the mortar contains no particles of quicklime, it often occasions, at particular points of the cornea, very white specks, which Beer describes as being composed of coagulated lymph, and admitting of dispersion. He even declares, that when the whole of the cornea is in this state, its transpa- rency may be lejtorcd by proper treatment, as has been frequently exemplified to the gentlemen attending his clinical lectures. (B. i. p. 234) The pricking of the eyeball with a red-hot needle, and the stinging of it by bees, wasps, and other insects, arc also both chemical and mechanical injuries. Wh:;ther thn sting be left in the skin of the eyelid, or in the conjunctiva, or not, a considerable inflammatory swelling immediately takes place ; and if the sting bo lodged, and not now taken away, the inflnmmatinn spreads, iind the eye itself is endangered. In two cases where tiie stings of bees were left in the skin of the upper eyelid. Beer knew gangrene arise, and the patients were saved with great difliculty. The tr('atmcnt of sucii cases consists in inunedi- ately extracting the sting, if lodged, and apply- ing folds of linen over the eye, wet with cold water. After noticing the destructive effects of burn- ing substances, tlie explosion of gunpowder, and fulminating silver, on the eye (cases in which, when the functions of the organ are annihilated, EYELIDS. C65 the only indication is to diminish tlie subse- quent inflammation and its consequences), Beer inquires, what is the reason 'why the slightest mechanical, or chemical, injuries of tlie eye, in an apparently healthy subject, are sometimes fol- lowed by an immoderate degree of inflammation, and even the loss of the organ from suppura- tion? It is, says he, an observation made by Schmidt, that there an; some eyes which the greatest bunglers may abuse for hours at a time without being spoiled, their powerful organisation defying all such imskilful disturbance ; while other eyes are met with, which the most skilful operators can hardly touch without inducing a destruc- tive degree of inflammation and suppuration. It was to this peculiar idiosyncrasy that Schmidt applied the term vuhiorahility. (Vonvuiidbarkeit.) Patients of this habit are said to possess an exceedingly fine soft skin, with a reddish polish upon it; and their cheeks are not only red, but exhibit a network of very minute vessels, which seem as if injected. Such individuals appear as if they were in the bloom of health : and, says Beer, in some respects they are really so. When their spirits are raised by the slightest causes their complexion is universally reddened ; but the least fear turns them pale as a corpse. Tiieir skin is uncommonly irritable, sensible of every impression, and attacked with an erysipelatous redness, when- ever any fatty substance touches it. In such habits the utmost caution is necessary whenever the eyes have been injured, and the prognosis should be reserved. [Consult the books mentioned under article Con- JdnctivjI, and also Desmarres, Traite Theorique et Pratique des Maladies des Yeux; 2nd ed. 1855, and numerous articles on this subject by While Cooper, Annales d'Oculistique, torn. xxxi. A. xl, Annees, 1854—1858, and on Injuries op the Eye. London, I860.] [EYELIDS, INFLAMMATION OF THE. The eyelids are of course subject to oedema, er^'si- pelas, abscesses, and the various forms of inflam- mation which attack the other parts of the common integument, and are to be treated accordingly. Tumors of the eyelids (see article of). HoRDEOLum (see article Hordeolum). Entropium (see articles on). Ectropium Encanthis Trichi.asis Ptosis PlITHEIRIASIS ' Spasmodic hvitehiiic/ of tJie eyelids.—This is com- monly the effect of intestinal irritation, especially that produced by ascarides ; and a purge, followed by a little tonic medicine, quinine, or iron, suffices to juit an end to thn annoyance. Injuries of Ihe eyelidk. Jicchymosin.—The best mode of treatment consists in the application of a poultice formed of the scraped root of lilack bryony nii.ved witli linseed meal or bread crumbs. This pro- duces a stinging sensation in the skin, and eft'ects a very speedy disappearance of tlie effused blood. Eiiipliyscnia of the liiis arises from blows ; blow- ing the nose puffs the eyelid up. The swelling is unattended with any redness of the skin, and, on pressing the part with the fingers, tlie surgeon at mice perceives the peculiar crackling of air ell'iised into areolar tissue. The cause of this emphysema