19 ABSORPTION. c 2 for n long time bodily ahsovhed by the Jicw growth. There is yot another class of alisorptioii ; that which Hunter called the progressive; such as happens when the sternum or vertebrte perish before the progress of an aneurism. Why the pre- sence of a growing tumour adjacent to a bone should cause it to waste, we cannot at present explain. In the foregoing columns wo have attempted a rapid review of all the various processes which liave been formerly, or are now, denominated by the terra absorption. We have seen that these processes are most various. There is the intro- duction of foreign matter into the blood ; either as food or poison, whether special!}' through tlie lacteals or bj- imbibition of surfaces in general. There is the wasting of natural tissues, general or local, when nutrition is impeded either from natiutil causes, or from disease. There is the re- moval of morbid exudations and deposits. And to these instances, for some of wliich absoption is not a proper name, as not expressing the pro- minent condition concerned, there has been added ulceration, which has no title to the term absorp- tion at all. We have also seen that, even in the instances which may pass xmier that term, the vessels called absorbent, are really not concerned, for the most part. Now let us speak of the second branch of our subject, and give such particulars respecting the introduction of foreign matters into the veins as may interest the surgeon. When there is any difficulty of swallowing, or of digesting food when swallowed, it is expedient to inject nourishing fluids into the rectum, or even to bathe the hands and feet with them, that they may be absorbed from thence. It is often desirable also, to introduce narcotic, or saline, or acid, or alkaline remedies, or mercury through the skin or bowels. The general principles with which the surgeon should be acquainted, seem briefly to be these: — The first point is to cause the liquid, (or sub- stance which is to be absorbed,) to be imbibed by the surface it is presented to. Now, there is no liquid from which the animal tissues universally have so much attraction as tliey have for water. This universal solvent forms by far the greater portion of their weight, and is imbibed with facility by them all ; whilst saline solutions of all kinds are imbibed far less readily. It follows, there- fore, as a general rule, that the more diluted solutions arc the better. Alcohol, ether, oils and most other liquids, are imbibed to a certain de- gree ; but not acids or corrosive solutions, stron" enough to decompose the skin, and to coagulate the blood in tlie veins. If a narcotic sul)stance is intended to be absorbed by the skin, it should be combined with a liquid which will not easily evaporate and so leave it dry, in which state it can scarcely be absorbed at all. For this reason glycerine is a better menstruum tiian cither water or alcohol for liniments of belladonna, opium, and the like. If the matter to bo imbibed is a_ semi-liquid, as tlfe mercurial ointment, fric- tion is of use in forcing it through the cuticle. Nor must it be forgotten, that the cuticle is, as it were, an organic varnish ; a layer of scales, spe- cially designed by nature to limit the transmission of liquids, whether from within or from without, Wo need not recall to the memory of the surgeon liow soon a subject for dissection dries up if tho cuticle be removed ; and it is equally certain that the penetration of all substances into the tissues is greatly promoted if the cuticle be removed. Hence, many substances which may be applied to the un- broken cuticle with safety, would be most dan- gerous if applied to a blistered surface, from the greater completeness and rapidity of their absorp- tion ; and the surgeon may often avail himself of very small blisters, in order to introduce morphia, or other narcotics near any painful part. Such medicines have also been introduced by inoculation or puncture ; or even by injection of solutions into the areolar tissue ; but these latter processes are painful and not often employed. When the material to be absorbed has pene- trated the tissues, the next object is, that it should enter the blood-vessels, and be carried away as rapidly as possible by the current of blood. This it is after all which is the truly efficient instrument of absorption, for the blood continually passing, carries off whatever is imbibed by the coats of the blood-vessels, and so keeps up a constant current towards itself. It must be evident, therefore, that everything which renders the circulation rapid promotes absorption; whilst everything which causes stagnation of blood has the contrary efi:'ect. Thus if the physical qualities of the material which is desired to be absorbed are such as to produce a stasis in the blood, as, for example, when saline or metallic solutions are used in too concentrated a form, and more especially if they are such as to cause coagulation, absorption will be greatly hin- dered. The density of saline solutions should theoretically be less than that of the liquor san- guinis. {Liehiff, on the Motion of tlie Juices, Lond. 1848.) It appears that the more empty the blood-vessels the more easily they absorb ; whilst filling them even with warm water, as was done by Majendie, impedes absorption. Some attention is expedient to the channels by which any given substance may be eliminated. Thus if it be deemed advisable to impregnate the blood with mercury, it should be introduced through the skin, or mucous membrane of the fauces, rather than through the stomach, from which it would pass to the liver and bowels, organs by which the elimination.of the metal is most easily effected. The principles on which the absorption of dele- terious matters may be hindered, will be readily seen from what has gone before. Suppose any poison to have come into contact with the abraded cutis, the application of some powerful cauterant, as the nitric acid, nitrate of silver, or of mercury, actual cautery, alcohol, turpentine, &c., even if not cap- able of decomposing the poison before it is imbibed b}^ tlio vessels, will produce a local inflammation, with stagnation of blood, and exudation, which will lie unfavourable to absorption. The mode in which ligatures, exhausted cupping glasses, and suction of all sorts hinders absorption must bn obvious. It may bo noticed too, that in cases in which there is a liability to infection from liquid or gaseous animal poisons ; for instance, in the case ol surgeons who dross erysipelatous wounds, or have to breathe a tiiiiitod atiuosplierc, tlio main- tenance of a higii state of heiihh by good diet,