AMAUROSIS, 34 case gradually give way under the 'effort de- manded, so that these muscles fall into a state of minimum contraction. The consequence is, that at length the upper eyelid drops, and the patient is obliged to indulge in that cessation of visual exertion which experience has taught him will regenerate his exhausted powers of sight, and enable him by and bye to resume his labours. With reference to this statement of Dr. Macken- zie's, Mr. White Cooper thinks that " it is highly probable that in the earlier stages of this affection, and in the slighter cases, an enfeebled condition ot the adjusting organs is the main fault; but has no doubt that congestion is speedily superadded, and that this local congestion is, in the majority ot cases, in connection with general debility. In many cases the vessels of the eye have lost their tonicity ; a trifling effort at reading visibly red- dens the surface of the globe, and with a lens many small vessels may be seen distended with blood- from this, in connection with the symptoms, we may predicate the state of the deeper tissues. It is probable that the great advantage derived from cold applied to the eye itself, from "-on, and from general invigorating measures, is referable to the effect produced by such remedies in restoring tone to the weakened vessels and imparting vigour to the nervous apparatus. When, however, the congestion has proceeded beyond ascertain point, other treatment becomes necessary." Mr. Dalrymple also is of opinion that the symp- toms are produced by congestion, and the follow- ina quotation explains his view of the effect pro- duced by over distention of the blood-vessels in the delicate structures of the eye : — « When we recollect that m health the scleio- tica and cornea are tough, inelastic and resisting tissues, and that the fluids within the eye are so nicely balanced that no vacuity is left, and tuat no imdue pressure is P"ceived,-when we re- member also that the retina is interposed between the choroid and the incompressible vitreous body, —we shall readily perceive how increased bullc from congestion of the vascular tissue must exert a direct and injurious pressure upon the most del- cate of nervous structures; how, in fact, this im- portant organ becomes as it were benumbed by impression, and its functions and sensibilities to the pictured image presented by the rays of bgh interfered with, altered, or ^"i'P'^«s^«'^-, this effect is being produced on the special proper ties of the retina, we see also that the ciliary nerves that traverse the exterior of the choroid be- come in like manner compressed against the scle- rotica, and as these are in part the channels ot the common sensation of the globe, pain is inducea; first of a sense of distention; secondly, ot auu aching ; and, lastly, pain in the brow or forehead, partaking somewhat of a neuralgic character in- duced by radiation to the frontal branches of the first division of the fifth pair. The cause of amaurosis is often suspected to depend upon local or constitutional debility, pro- ceedinK from impairment of the nerves in general, or of the nerves of the head, especially those of the forehead and eyebrow ; either in consequence ot fa Is from a considerable height or of concussion w h the weight of the whole body upon the heels - blovvs on the head; concussions or contusions c tie eyeball Some of tlie cases oi amaui-osis from b owJon the temple or the eye, observed by Mi. Travers, were attended with signs of disorganisa- tion ; some were superficially inflamed ; and others presented no external appeiirance of injury. It is not always the eye on the struck side of the head that is affected. {Synopsis, ^"c. p. 152.) If we are to believe Beer, considerable direct weakness, leading to amaurosis, may arise from cholera, long- continued diarrhoea, salivation, ftnd the incessant spitting of tobacco smokers; bleedings ; injudi- cious tapping of the abdomen ; excessive indulgence in venery, and the misemplojonent of issues. A general debility, which has the worst effect on the eyes may also arise from long trouble, especially when the diet is poor and bad ; also from a de- ficiency of proper food, long watching, or violent and sudden fright. The amaurosis following typhus, without any unusual irritation of the eye by light. Beer refers to general debilit3^ {Lehre voii den Aztgenkr. b. ii. p. 449.) Like nervous deafness, amaurosis sometimes follows typhus and scarlet fever, and the various forms of acute constitutional disease. Mr. 1 ravers has several times met with it as a consequence ot infantile fevers. He observes, that it is also some- times a consequence of chronic wasting diseases in which organic changes interrupt the nutrition ot the system. He has seen a rapid and severe sali- vation, instituted for a remote affection, and where no disease had previously affected the eyes, termi- nate in gutta Serena of both. {Synopsis, p. 1 oo.) The susceptibility of the retina is conceived by Mr Middlemore to be capable of being at once di- rectly depressed, without going through the process of inflammation, in the same way as the nervous power of other parts of the system may be lowered or t.ken away by powerfully depressing and rapidly enervating 'agents. {On Dis. of the Eye, WithrSd to the doctrine, that certain forms of amaurosis are diseases oE debility, Mr. Law- rence expresses his disbelief in its correctness, and asserts that the only successful treatment of amau- rotic affections is found, with f ew exceptions, to be variously modified antiphlogistic {On Dtse^ises of 7I^Eve 3, P. 624.) Whether the amaurosis rtsu^ng fr m'typhoid fevers, of which I have seen everannBtances, proceed from debility, or from too .riat a determination of blood_ to the head, may adm t of dispute ; but I conceive that, in many of sich cases, tonic treatment s clear y indicated i not for the eye itself, certainly for the generally enfeebled state of the health, with which the amau- 0 sis connected. Yet the doctrine that fulness and congestion of the vessels originally lead to he amaurotic affection, may be more correct than the 2o y which refers the blindness simply to wea^^- 1 ss However, as the amaurosis generally doe no ;how itself ill nn advanced stage of fever or St of ;-eat debility, and as it on y r^K^des as tl. SS^frintiiici^r^rSti than tonic can be availing. _ {rritations The third class of causes consists of ^"tations, .1 L Tlin nliRcrvations ol iticiuci, ouuiiu, the eyes. liie observa ^^^.^ doctrine. and Scl.niucker, a" t';»';;° ^ to have suf- Many amaurotic Ft«=» been agitated eredmuch.rouW^^^^^^^ ^^j^..^^ l^fTS^'XS disordering the bilious