bniin whera tlio optic nerves communicate tlicii influence to the third pair. Amaurosis with lively pupils has not unfrcquently been found to depend on disease of the cerebellum." He thinks the same theory " will also serve to account for the motions of the iris of an amaurotic eye, when the opposite sound eye is exposed to various gradations of light. Each optic nerve, dividing at the chiasma into two portions, one to the right and the other to the left side of the brain, is in communication with both nerves of the tliird pair, so that although the pupil of the diseased eye becomes expanded and fixed when the sound eye is kept shut, it instantly contracts when this eye is exposed to light, and so long as this is the case, performs exactly the same motions," The pupil of an ej'e, affected with amaurosis, frequently does not exhibit the clear shining black- ness which is seen in a healthy eye. When the disease is an etfect of hydrocephalus, and occurs in a young subject, the pupil presents its natural black hue ; but in elderly subjects, it is rarely the case that some degree of glaucoma does not ac- company amaurosis. {Mackenzie, ed. 4, p. 1025.) In general, the pupil is of a dull glassy, hornlike blackness, which symptom alone is frequently enough to apprize a well-informed practitioner of the nature of the disease. It is, in the words of Mr. Travers, "little more than the healthy appearance of the humours in the eye of a horse." (Si/nopsis, p. 146.) Sometimes the colour of the pupil has an inclination to green ; while, in other examples, this aperture seems to be dense, white, and cloudy, so that the complaint might easily be mistaken for _the_ beginning of a cataract. This error, into which inexperienced surgeons are liable to fall, may generally be avoided by attention to the following circumstances. The misty appearance is not situated close behind the pupil, in the place of the crj'stalline lens, but more deeply in the eye. Nor is it in proportion to the impairment of sight, the p.itient being quite blind, while the misty appearance is so trivial, that, if it arose from the opacity of the crystnlline lens, it could at most only occasion a slight weakness and obscurity of vision ; at the same time, Richter acknowledges that it must be more difficult to avoid mistake when a beginning amaurosis is accompanied with this cloudiness of the eye, and, consequently, when the degree of blindness seems to bear some pro- portion to the degree of mistiness in the pupil. However, in this case, he maintains that the true nature of the disease may generally be known by comparing the ordinary symptoms of the two dis- eases. {Anfanysjr. b. iii. p. 14.) And, accord- ing to Beer, when the pupil is of a true dark gray, or greenish gray colour, a lateral inspection of the eye will show plainly enough that the cloudiness 18 in the vitreous humour or behind it. Some- times the pupil appears reddish, quite red, or of a yellowish white colour {Ldire vo7i den Auycnkr. b. li. p. 430) ; while, in other cases, the interior of the eye, a good way behind the pupil, seems white, and a concave light-coloured surface may be observed, upon which the ramifications of blood- vessels can bo plainly seen. In particular in- stances, this white surface extends over the whole back part of the eye, while, in other cases, it only occupies a half or a small portion of it. This pe- culiar appearance has been ascribed to a loss of transparency in the retina itself, and a consequent AMAUROSIS. 29 reflection of the rays of light. {Haller, Elcmenl. Physiol, V. p. 409.) Mr. Travers inclines to the opinion, that it arises from a deficient secretion of the choroid pigment, a preternatural adhesion betwixt the choroid coat and the retina, and a dis- coloration or resplendent appearance of the latter from this cause. {Synopsis, p. 148.) A whiteness behind the pupil sometimes ori- ginates from the diseased mass, which, in fungus hfematodes of the eye, grows from the deeper part of this organ, and gradually makes its way for- ward to the iris, attended with total loss of sight. Putting out of present consideration the change of colour within the eye, produced by fungus htema- todes, the other palish changes behind the pupil are not confined, as Kieser supposes, to very old cases of amaurosis, because the alteration is de- scribed by Schmucker as taking place especially in examples the formation of which was quite sudden {Vermischte Chir. Schrift. b. ii.); and I/an- genbeck has recorded cases in which the same appearance happened in the early stage of the dis- ease. {Neue Bihl. b. i. p. 64, &c.) One criterion between amaurosis and incipient cataract, is the diflferent appearance which the flame of a candle exhibits to the patient in the two affections. In incipient cataract, it appears as if it were involved in a generally diffused thin mist, or white cloud, which increases with the distance of the light ; but in amaurosis, a halo or iris ap- pears to encircle or emanate from the mist, the flame seeming to be split when at a distance. {Stevenson on the Nature, Sec. of Amaurosis. Lond. 1821.) The Ophthalmoscope, a contrivance for direct- ing concentrated light into the interior of the eyes, is sometimes employed for exploring the condition of the deeper seated tissues. On this subject, Dr. Mackenzie observes: — "It may be possible by concentrating the sun's raya, or the strong light of a lamp or gas flame, with a double convex lens, and letting the focus fall within the eye, to discover in some cases pig- mentaiy depositions in the vitreous humour, effu- sions of blood or exudations of lymph on the sur- fece or in the substance of the retina, or between it and the choroid, varicosity of the retinal vessels partial removal of the pigment in patches, sepa- ration of the retina from the choroid in consequence of Bubchoroid dropsy, &c. The same may be ac- complislied by means of a beam of strong light reflected from a mirror, as is done by the ophthal- moscopes of Helmholtz, Coccius, and others. Such examinations may confirm us in an unfavourable prognosis, already pronounced on other grounds but are not likely to be either satisfactory or safe in tlie early and curable stages of the disease." (bee Ophtiialmoscoi'e.) If the pupil ia very muck dilated, if its mobility IS nearly destroyed, if scintillations are present, and li the patient has recently been exposed to the operation of circumstances calculated to induce atonic amaurosis ; then the decision that the case IS 01 the latter kind is free from difficulty. (See IC. Middlemorc on Dis. of the Ei/c, vol. ii. p. 270.) i his gentleman is satisfied, that the only circum- stances, which can render it difficult to distinguish cataract from amaurosis, are, wlien mere atony of the return, or atrophy of the optic natw, commences, and especially, when either of those morbid states supervenes upon a cloudy state of the pupil; and, in