158 ANEU RISM. son has rightly observed, is a circumstance which materially prevents the establishment of a colliiteral circulation. When the tumor has ac- quired an immense bulk, it has probably destroyed the parts in which some of the principal anasto- mosing branches are situated; or by its pressure it may prevent their dilatation. (On the Dis- eases of Arteries and Veins, p. 259.) The prac- tice of permitting an aneurism to increase, that the collateral branches may become enlarged (says this gentleman), is not only unnecessary but inju- rious, inasmuch as the increase of the tumor must be attended with a destruction of the surrounding parts, which will render the cure of the disease more tedious and uncertain. (P. 266.) The most successful operations which I have seen, were performed before the aneurismal swell- ings were large. However, notw'.thstanding the great disadvantages of letting the swelling become bulky before the operation, the fact has not always made due impression, and a few surgeons are yet blinded with the plausible scheme of giving time for the collateral vessels to enlarge. 1 remember a patient who had been advised to let the operation be postponed on such a ground, though the swell- ing in the ham was already as large as an egg. Mr. Guthrie is of opinion, that the collateral branches begin to enlarge shortly after the com- mencement of the disease, as a part of the cura- tive process, which nature^ in most instances, endeavours to set up ; " the essential points of which are, in an extremity—1. The obliteration of the artery above and below the tumor. 2. The coasulation of the blood within it. 3. The enlarge- ment of the collateral branches above and below it." " It is necessary (he afterwards observes), that this enlargement of the collateral branches should take place, because in many cases, the artery be- yond, or below tne tumor is obliterated long be- fore any operation is performed. The main supply of blood is already cut off from the extremity, and the operation adds very little to the derange- ment of the circulation v^hich has already taken place below the tumor." These facts appear to Mr. Guthrie to prove, what, indeed, cannot be doubted, that the collateral cir- cxilation is not in the same stage of preparation, in a limb whose main artery has been divided, as in one where an aneurism has existed for some time. They also explain why mortification is more common after wounded arteries, than after operations for aneurism. (See Guthrie, On Dis. of Arteries, p.l 39.) In a case of wounded artery, I sliould say, that the greater tendency to mortification is likewise promoted by the following circumstances :— The common injection and distention of the cellular tissue with blood, the frequent simultaneous inju- ries of the collateral vessels and considerable veins, and sometimes of important nerves, the weakness often resulting from profuse external hemorrhage, and the depth and extent of the wound to various other textures. Althougli Mr. Guthrie considers, that the doc- trine of the power of tlie collateral vessels always to carry on the circulation in aneurism lias been carried rather too far, and that the allowance of some little time for them to enlarge themselves for that purpose is useful ; there may appear but a trivial difference between him and other surgeons, or, perhaps, none at all, when his belief is recol- lected, that such enlargement occurs in an early stage of the disease, and his precept is remembered, " that an aneurism should never be allowed to at- tain that size, which may render it injurious to the surrounding parts. (Op. cit. p. 140.) As I be- lieve, that the early editions of my surgical writ- ings contain the first condemnation of the old plan of delaj'ing tlie operation till the collateral vessels had had time to increase in size, this is a prac- tical point in v.'hich I feel some interest ; and the more I have seen and read of the present dis- ease has only served to confirm the accuracy of the practical advice long ago delivered in my works on the advantages of early operations for aneurism. The effects of the pressure of aneurisms upon the bones, are justly regarded as an unpleasant complication, when they tiike place in an exten- sive degree, and, according to some writers, they may sometimes induce a necessity for amputation. {Boyer, Traite des Mai. Chir. t. ii. p. 117.) How- ever, I have never seen a case of this description ; and Mr. Hodgson, as we have already explained, informs us, that the affection of the bones is hardly ever attended with exfoliations, or the formation of pus, so that if the aneurism can be cured, the bones will generally recover their healthy state, without undergoing those processes which take place in the cure of caries, or necrosis. {On. Diseases of Arteries and Veins, ■p. 80.) At the same time, there can be no doubt, that where the tumor has been allowed to attain a large size, before an attempt is made to cure it, and where, from this cause, both the neighbouring soft parts and the bones have suffered considerably, the completion of a cure — that is to sa}', the full resto- ration of the use of the iirab—must be far more distant than in other cases, where the cure is attempted in an earlier stage. Here, then, we see another reason against the pernicious doctrine of waiting for the enlargement of the anastomising vessels, in addition to that which has been urged in the previous column. The age, constitution, and state of the patient's health, are also to be considered in the prognosis ; for they undoubtedly make a great difference in the chance of success after the operation. The operation, however, should not be rejected on account of the age of the patient, if the cir- cumstances of the case in other respects appear to demand it; for it has often succeeded at very advanced periods of life. " I have seen several aneurisms cured by the modern operation, in pa- tients above sixty years of age." {Hodgson p. 304.) Similar cases have fallen under my own notice. In cases of popliteal aneurism, Sir Astley Cooper operated with success on one patient aged eighty-five, and on another sixty-nine years old, with the same favourable result. When an aneurism exists in the course of the aorta, the violent action of the heart, excited by an operation in the extremities, may cause it to burst, and prove instantaneously fatiil. Two cases occurred a few years ago in this metropolis, _ in which the patients died from such a cause during operations for popliteal aneurisms. (See Hodgson, On Diseases of Arteries, p. 306; London Med. Rev. vol. ii. p. 246 ; and Duns, On Diseases of (he Heart, p. 223.) Were the co-existence of the internal aneurism known, the operation for the other tumor would be improper, and the surgeon should limit the treatment to palliative means.