978 her: lows exactly the direction of this cord, it must also cross the artery, and remove it from the outer to the inner side of the ring, according to the me- chanism alreadj"- explained in speaking of the com- mon inguinal hernia. Hence the displacement of the epigastric artery constantly happens in the in- guinal congenital, just as it does in the ordinary external inguinal hernia. " But, if these two species of inguinal herniEe have some analogy to each other, in regard to the parts which constitute them, yet they present some remarkable differences. 1. The common inguinal hernia, whether internal or external, when it ex- tends into the scrotum, cannot descend beyond the point at which the spermatic vessels enter the testicle. There the cellular substance of the sper- matic cord terminates. There the hernial sac must also unavoidably terminate. On the contrary, in the congenital hernia the viscera may descend lower than the testicle, with which they are in im- mediate contact; and, at length, they even occupy the situation of this organ, which is then pushed upward and backward. 2. In the case of a con- genital hernia, the descent of the viscera from_ the groin to the scrotum commonly takes place in a very short time, and in some measure precipitately. It is much slower and more gradual in the ordinary inguinal hernia. The reason of this difference is very plain. In the first case, the descent of the testicle and the formation of the tunica vaginalis have opened and prepared the way, which the viscera must follow in forming a protrusion; while, in the second, the hernial sac cannot descend into the scrotum, but by gradually elongating the layers of the cellular substance, which joins it to the sur- rounding parts. This fact is so generally known that experienced practitioners consider the promp- titude with which the viscera have descended from the groin to the bottom of the scrotum, as a charac- teristic sign of a scrotal congenital hernia." (Scarpa Traile des Hernics, p. 73, &c.; Hesselhach, p. 35, Foil; Sir. A. Cooper, part i. p. 79, ed. 2.) In the hernia congenita, the spermatic artery and vein are sometimes on one side of it, and the vas deferens behind it. A preparation, exhibiting this alteration of the cord, may be seen in the museum of St. Thomas's Hospital. If circumstances will admit of a truss being ap- plied and worn, in cases of congenital hernia, in young subjects, there will be a considerable chance of a radical cure being effected, in consequence of the natural propensity of the opening between the abdomen and tunica vaginalis to become closed. In the operation, the surgeon has to lay open the tunica vaginalis, instead of a common hernial sac ; but, as Sir Astlcy Cooper judiciously recom- mends, that membrane should not be opened low down ; ] st, because a sufficiency of it should always be loft to cover the testicle ; and, 2ndly, because the spermatic artery and vein are situated obliquely on the front and lower portion of the tumor. The incision should begin at the upper part of the abdominal ring, and, in large hernias, extend to a little above the testicle. This lays bare the in- tercolumnar fascia, the cremaster muscle, and the fascia infiradibuliformis, which cover the tunica vaginalis. This latter membrane is then to be cautiously opened, and divided in the direction of the first incision, to within an inch of the abdominal ring above ; but downwards no lower than the upper part of the testicle, as a sufficient quantity of the tunica vaginalis should be left to cover this organ. (See Sir A. Cooper, op. cit. p. 78, part, ii.) If the hernia were large, and it had been for any time irreducible, the same experienced surgeon would advise the return of the parts without in- spection, if the stricture could be removed without opening the tunica vaginalis. The stricture is to be divided on the same principle as that of an oblique inguinal hernia, and much in the same manner. As, in a case of congenital hernia, the parts are always protruded on the outside of the epigastric artery, the stricture may be safely di- vided towards the ilium, as well as directly upwards. {Lawrence, On Ruptures, p. 507, ed. 4.) The tunica vaginalis having been opened, the finger is to be passed into it, the seat of stricture ascertained, and, if this be at the abdominal ring, Sir A. Cooper re- commends the dilatation to be made by insinuating the knife between the sac and the ring. " If," says he, "the impediment to the return of the hernia is formed by the transversalis muscle, the knife (still on the anterior side of the sac) is to be carried up to it (the stricture) through the ring ; but, if the stricture is in the tunica vaginalis itself, at its orifice into the abdomen, the knife must be introduced within it, and the strictured part cautiously divided." (Op. cit. part ii. p. 78.) According to Sir Astley Cooper, the stricture is generally about an inch and a half from the abdo- minal ring, except in large cases, when it is nearer to it. The parts having been reduced, the edges of the wound are to be brought together, and re- tained so by means of one or two sutures, and sticking-plaster. Instances of strangulated congenital inguinal hernia in young children, are exceedingly rare. Their possibility, however, should be remembered, and even the occasional necessity for operating. Thus, Mr, Adams' was called upon to perform the operation on a child, eighteen months old, with this species of hernia strangulated; and the case ended favourably. (See Dublin Journ. of Med. Science, vol, ii. p. 321.) [My experience does not lead me to acquiesce in the opinion here expressed as to the extreme rarity of the occurrence of strangulations in young children. Two such.cases have occurred in my own practice, and Mr. James Lane lately operated on an infant four weeks old for strangulated congenital hernia. These cases terminated successfully.] Encysted or Infantile Hernia. A new species of hernia congenita was described by the late Mr. Hey, in which a sac, containing the viscera, is included in the tunica vagin.'ilis. lie conceived that it arose from the parts being pro- truded, after the communication between the abdo- men and tunica vaginalis had been closed, but not effectually, so that the peritoneum was carried down along with the intestine, and formed a hernial sac within the tunica vaginalis. Such a hernia can only be produced, while the original tunica vagi- nalis remains, in the form of a bag, as high as the abdominal ring. Sir Astley Cooper believes, that the tunica vaginalis becomes closed at the ring, but remains open above and below it. (On Hernui, part. i. ed. 2.) Mr. Hey called the case hernia infantilis ; Sir A. Cooper encysted vagind hernia. The testis is not involved, and can be distmctly felt below the hernia. The tunica vaginalis ought, in this case, to be freely opened. The strangulation,