704 FRACTURE. [Fractures op the Zvgomatic Arch, and of THE Malar, and Sqperior Maxillary Bones.] IThc arch of tlie zygoma may be broken by a Wow or a fall on the side of the face, or by a car- riage wheel passing over it, but the accident is a rare one, so much so that M. Malgaigne has only been able to collect five examples of it.1 The fracture is not in itself serious, and if unattended with much displacement, no particular treatment will be necessary excepting for the accompanying contusion of the soft parts. The fragments may, however, be driven in so as to interfere with the insertion of the temporal muscle into the coronoid process and to interrupt its action, and in that case, if a reduction cannot be effected by pressure with the finger from within the mouth, it might be advisable to make an incision above the zygoma through the integuments and temporal fascia, and to raise the depressed ends of the fracture by an elevator introduced beneath them. This plan has been adopted with success. {Qqh Malgaigne, Traiti des Fractures, p. 357.) The malar hones, from their prominent situation at the side of the face, are exposed to similar in- juries. They may be driven in and more or less comminuted, or they may be separated from their connexions at the sutures. If there is much dis- placement, the finger should be introduced into the mouth to replace the broken pieces as nearly as possible in their natural position, and the attempt should be made at an early period after the accident, for they rapidly contract adhesions, and become fixed in their new situation. 77(6 superior maxillary bones are sometimes frac- tured in such a manner that a portion of the alveolar process is detached from the rest of the bone. In such a case the broken piece must be replaced, and the teeth which it contains must be fixed with ligatures or wire to those belonging to the unin- jured portion of the bone. An apparatus fitting on to the teeth, .and similar to that recommended for fracture of the inferior maxilla, may also be found useful to retain the detached piece in its proper position. Other cases occur in which the superior maxil- illary bones are more severely injured. Mr. South records a remarkable accident in which a man re- ceived a violent blow on the face from the handle of a crane whilst flying round. The nose, cheek, and upper jaw bones were broken and crushed, so that the whole face below the eyes, including the floors of the orbits, could be moved with the least effort, and yielded in every way to pressure with the fingers, just as would beans in a bag. This man recovered after having had a little exfoliation from the mouth and nose ; but a shnllow furrow across the face and a broken nose-bridge were the results of the injury. (See Chelius' Surgery, trans- lated by South, vol. i. p. 528.) M. Malgaigne mentions a case occurring to M. Simonin of Nancy, in which the left side of the face was driven in, and the superior maxil- lary and palate bones disjoined at their sutures in the median line, and separated from the bones of the opposite side by an interval of nearly half an inch. iNotwitlistanding other injuries, tliis patient re- covered, with only slight subsequent deforinitv, ana no inconvenience in speech or deglutition. ' ill all those cases the loose fragments should never be removed, as they are found to unite with, remarkable facility.] Fractures op tjie Lower Jaw. This bone is sometimes fractured near the chin • but seldom so as to produce a division of the symphysis, the solution of continuity gcnerallv hap- pening between this part and the insertion of the masseter. In University College Museum, how- ever, there is a specimen of a fracture situated precisely at the symphysis. In other instances, the racture occurs near the angles of the jaw, that is to say, between the insertion of the masseter and t ie root of the coronoid process. The bone may also be broken on each side at the same time : in which event the middle portion is extremely difficult to keep right, because many of the mus- cles which draw the lower jaw downwards are attached to that part. The condyles and coronoid process are also sometimes broken. Fractures of the lower jaw may be either per- pendicular to its basis, oblique, or longitudinal ; of the latter, examples have been known in which a portion of the alveolar process with the teeth in It, \yas detached from the rest of the bone. The soft parts are generally contused and wounded. An instance is reported by Dr. Richelot of the accident being complicated with an injury of the facial artery. {Archives Gen. Si.m.UZZ.) J. L. Petit mentions one case in which the bone was broken, and the coronoid process quite denuded by the kick of a horse. ' When the fracture is near the median line, the side on which the symphj-sis is situated is dra^vn downward and backward by the sub-maxillary muscles, while the other fragment is supported by the muscles which close the jaw. When the fracture is more backward, the displacement occurs in the same way, but not so easily. When the bone IS fractured in two places, the middle portion is always pulled downwards and backwards by the muscles attached to the chin, while the two lateral pieces are kept up by the levator muscles. When the ramus of the jaw is broken, the masseter, . being attached to both pieces, prevents anv consi- derable degree of displacement. When the neck of the condj-le is fractured, the ptervgoideus ex- ternus will pull the condyle forwards." [M. Malgaigne thinks that too much has been attributed to the action of muscles, and tljat the displacement is often determined by the direction of the blow which occasioned the fracture, and which in most cases operates on one side of the fracture more than on the other. In oblique frac- tures, also, the direction of the obliquity may deter- mine the direction of the displacement; and he found that in the majority of cases the bone was broken obliquely as regards its thickness, tlie obliquity passing backwards from the external towards the internal surface. In such a case the posterior piece may project outwards and ride more or less over the larger anterior portion.] When a blow has been received on the lower jaw, or the bone injured by a fall, or the pressure of some heavy body; when an acute pain is ex- perienced in the part, and an inequality can be felt at the basis of the bone; when some of the tcetli, corresponding to that inequalit}-, are lower tlian the others; and when a crepitus is perceptible on moving the jaw ; there can be no doubt of a frac- ture. When the gums are lacerated, or the bone