^■^^ HEMIOPIA in succession generally produce a complete recovery, where the first or second have failed; but some rare instances of very obstinate hemeralopia have re- quired even ten successive blisters to each temple; or, instead of using them in succession, a perpetual vesicatory has been formed on each temple, and maintained until a cure has been accomplished; an event, which has generally followed in a fortnight." (^Bampficld in Medico-Chir. Trans, vol. v. p. 47, 48.) In some cases, shades over the eyes were worn during the treatment, and a certain time after the cure. The patients were also often di- rected to bathe their eyes with cold water, two or three times a day. The epidemic hemeralopia amongst the Prussian soldiers at Ehrenbreitstein was cured by change of quarters, removing the exciting causes, already specified, and having recourse to cold lotions. Mr. Bampfield knew of some instances, in which electricity was successfully employed, as a topical stimulus to the eye. He also informs us, that a spontaneous cure sometimes followed the eruption of boils on the head or face, or the for- mation of abscesses on these parts, or in the ears. Although blisters will generally effect a cure, there were particular cases in which Mr. Bamp- field administered cathartics, such as calomel and the neutral salts. In these examples, the patient had bilious complaints, indicated by a yellow state of the tongue and skin, headache, and pain about the prsecordia; or symptoms of indigestion; white tongue, loss of appetite, pain and flatulence of the stomach, &c. With blisters and aperient medicines Mr. Lawrence sometimes combines cupping on the temples, or nape of the neck. (On Dis. of the Eye, p. 570.) The patients, treated by Dr. Smith, were put into a ward moderately lighted, and their bowels emptied by a gentle cathartic. A blister was then applied to each temple, and kept open with savin cerate. A little of. a solution of the oxymuriate of mercury, in the proportion of two grains to an ounce of water, was dropped into the eyes twice a day. The purgatives were repeated on the third day, and the quantity of light to which the patients were exposed was afterwards gradually increased, (See Edin, Med. Journ. No. 74, p. 24.) In scorbutic hemeralopia, blisters are to be de- ferred until the state of the constitution has been amended, by giving lemon and lime juice, and fresh animal and vegetable food; because hemeralopia often gradually ceases as the scurvy is cured; and before this last event, the blister might produce a scorbutic ulcer. Mr. Bampfield estimates, that about one-third of the cases of scorbutic hemera- lopia resist the efficacy of the antiscorbutic regi- men and medicines; and consequently must ulti- mately be treated as idiopathic cases. The frequent recurrence of this disease, during the patient's continuance in a tropical or hot climate, naturally suggests the propriety of recommending him to return to his native climate, by which change the tendency to a relapse is in general com- pletely removed. (Bampfield, in Medico-Chir. Trans, vol. v. p. 53.) et J. C.Weise, De Nyctalopia seu Caocitate Nocturua; Ilaller, Disp. ad Morb. &c. 359. Journal de M^de- cine et de ChirurR-ie, an 1756, t. iv. Medical Obser- vations and Inquiries, vol. i. Recueil d'Observations de Mddecine des Hfipitaux Militaires, par Ricltard, t. j). Duport, Miiiioire surlaGoulte Sereine Nocturne dpiddmique, ou Nyctalopie. Observations on Tropi- cal Nyctalopia, by Mr. J. Forbes, in Edinb. Medical and Surgical Journal, No. xxviii. p. 417, et seq. Richter's Anfangsgriinde der Wundarz- neykunst, b. iii. p. 483, et seq. Schmucker's Chirur- gische Schriften, band. 2. Sag-gio di Osservazioni e d'Espenenze sulle Principali Malattie degli Occhi di Antonio Scarpa, p. 322, et seq. edit. 8vo. Venezia, 2081. Lassus, Pathologie Chirurgicale, t. ii. p. 539, edit. 2. Rees's CycIop;edia, art. Nyctalopia. A Practical Essay on Hemeralopia, or Night-blindness, commonly called Nyctalopia, by R. W. Bampfield, in Medico-Chirurgical Trans, vol. v. p. 32, et seq. A. Simpson on Hemeralopia, 8vo. Glasgow, 1819. C. //. Wetter, Manual of the Uis. of the Eye, transl. by I). Monteath, vol. ii. p. 142, 8vo. Glasgow, 1821. Good's Study of Medicine, vol. iv. p. 203, edit. 3, 1829. W. Lawrence on Dis. of the Eye, p. 568, 8vo. Lond. 1833. Dr. A. Smith, in Edinb. Med. and Surgical Journ. No. Ixxiv. W. Mackenzie on Dis. of the Eye, p. 880, ed. 2,8vo. Lond. 1835. Robert Middlemore, on Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 225, 8vo. Lond. 1835. H. E. C. Rich- ter, Scriptores Ophthalmologici Minores, vol. iii. Dub- lin Journ. of Med. Science, vol. viii. p. 123, 8vo. 1835. Consult Celsus de Re M^dica, cap. 6, lib. 6. Galen up. Lib. de Oculis, pars iv. cap. 11, 22. jEtii Scnno ocptiuius, cap ° " • - ■ 48, &c. Paul". JEginm, lib. iii. cap. ' '^"^ Method. Med. lib. iv. cap. fen? a ;r t^'^"'H'l- Ocu.l. cap. 4. Aviccnna, lib. centi,,'-„'"^'u *• I'nbricii Hildani centur. i. obs. 24.; <-cntui.v.ob8.i3. Pte^ncf, Praxis Med. U.A.Berqen, HEMIOJIA (from ^ijlktvs, half, and the eye.) A certain disorder of the eye, in which the patient cannot see the whole of any object which he is looking at, but only a part of it. Sometimes he see the middle, but not the circumference ; sometimes the circumference, but not the centre ; while, on other occasions, it is only the upper or lower half which is discerned. Sometimes objects are seen thus imperfectly, whether distant or near ; sometimes only when they are near, and not at a great distance. The causes of hemiopia are divided by Richtcr into four kinds. To the first belong opacities of the cornea and crystalline lens, especially such as destroy the transparency of only a certain portion of these parts. The cure of this species of hemiopia de- pends upon the removal of the partial opacity from which it originates. (See Cataract, and Cornea, Opacities of.) Under certain circumstances, persons, whose upper eyelids cannot be properly raised, are af- fected with hemiopia. They can only discern tho lower half of an object, which is near and of large size, unless they go farther from it, draw their heads backward, or turn their eyes downward. The pupil, in particular instances, becomes dr"awn away from the middle of the iris, or there may bo a separation of the iris from the margin of the cornea by external violence, or other causes. Each of these occurrences maj' cause hemiopia of an incurable kind, The foregoing species of hemiopia are merely efi'ects of other diseases. The fourth and last kimi is the most important, being generally regarded as an independent disorder. Sometimes it appears to be the efl'ect of a sudden and transient irritation, producing a morbid sensibility in the optic nerve. The causes of this sort of case, if we can credit Richter, are mostly seated in the abdominal viscera. When the afi"cction is more durable, forming what has been termed amaurosis dimidiuta, the same treatment is indicated as in amaurosis; ni which, indeed, it often terminates. {Richtcr, Anfangsgr. der IVundarxn. h. iii. kap. 17.) Dr. Wollaston, who experienced two attacks of hemiopia, and wrote a paper on the semidecussation