ANEURISM. 174 plication of the ligatures. Thus, a harrier was formed, beyond which the ligature could not pass." This operation was successful. {Med. ami Phys. Journ. vol. viii.) A similar proposal appears to have been mentioned by Dionis, and some subsequent writers, especially by Richter, in the 13th chapter of hia Anfangsgrunde der Wundarzneyhunst, b. i. ed. 3, 1799. The preceding method is so contrary to the grand principle of always avoiding the detach- ment of the artery from it^ surrounding connec- tions, and is so inconsistent with the wise maxim of completing the operation with as little disturb- ance of tiie vessel as possible, that it is not sur- prising that it should have met with only a small number of followers. In fact, it is not only liable to every objection which can be urged against the double ligature and division of the artery, as formerly proposed by Celsus, and a few of the moderns, but on account of its greater tediousness, more extensive separation and destruction of the vessel, and other reasons, is still less worthy of imitation. Where ligatures slip off directly after theii- ap- plication, I conclude that the arteries either can- not have been tied with sufficient tightness, or else that the noose becomes slack, from causes which will be understood by considering what is said on this matter in the ai-ticle Hemorrhage. The inner coats of the artery, we know from the experiments of Dr. Jones, ought to be cut through when the artery is properly tied, because the cir- cumstance is always useful in promoting the effu- sion of lymph within the vessel, and the process of obliteration by the adhesive inflammation : it may also be advantageous in keeping the ligatiu-e from slipping. With respect to ligatures of reserve, the inter- position of agaric, cork, and other hard substances between the knot and the artery, these contrivances are now so fully rejected by all good surgeons, for reasons which will be quite intelligible after the perusal of another part of this work (see He- morrhage), that I shall not at present detain the reader with animadversions on their danger. As for several kinds of metallic compressors intended to be applied to the exposed artery, for the pur- pose of rendering it impervious, they are inven- tions which have been made and extolled by some surgeons of high repute, whose names would give importance even to a less meritorious proposition. Dubois conceived that hemorrhage might sometimes proceed from the circumstance of a ligature making its way too fast through the ar- tery. He thought also that the sudden stop- page of the current of blood by a tight ligature might bring on gangrene of the limb, particularly when the aneurism was not of long standing, so that the collateral branches had not had time to enlarge. Dubois, therefore, proposed a method of gradually stopping the flow of blood through the artery ; and by this ingenious imitation of the process of nature, to promote the gradual dilata- tion of the collateral arteries, and obviate all risk of gangrene in the lower part of the limb. Tliis gentleman put his plan in execution, and two in- stances of success are recorded. The cases were popliteal aneurisms. A ligature was passed under the artery in the manner of Hunter ; its two ends were then put through an instrument called a serre-ncEud, with which the compression was gra- dually increased. It is stated that, in one of these cases, the plan made the artery inflame and become impervious, in the course of the first night, so that on the following day the throbbing of the tumor had ceased. [Ric/wrand, Nosogr. Chir. t. iv. p. 109, edit. 4.) Here, however, it is to be suspected that the pressure of the ap- paratus was greater than was calculated: and that the stoppage of the pulsation was more owing either to this cause, or to the coagulation of the blood, in the sac and adjoining portion of the ar- tery, than to the process of obliteration, which could hardly have been so rapidly accomplished. Assalini's compressor is an instrument, calcu- lated, as its inventor states, to produce an oblite- ration of the trunks of arteries, without dividing or injuring their coats. It is nothing more than a small pair of silver forceps, the blades of which are broad and flat at their extremities, between which the artery is compressed. A spring, com- posed of a piece of elastic steel, is attached to the inside of one of the handles, and, by pressing against the opposite handle, retains the flat ends of the blades in contact. This spring is intended to be very weak in its operation; but, by means of a screw which passes through the handles, the pressure admits of being regulated and increased at the option of the surgeon. A representation of Assalini's compressor may be seen in his Manuah di Chirurgia, parte prima, p. 113. In the same book, or in my friend Mr. Hodgson's valuable Treatise on the Diseases of Arteries and Veins, which every practical sur- geon ought to possess, a case may be perused, in which this instrument was successfully era- ployed by Professor Monteggia, and withdrawn entirely, as early as sixty hours after its applica- tion. This last distinguished surgeon also used the compressor in an example, in which the femora\ artery was wounded, and bled in an alarming de- gree. After forty hours, the pressure was lessened ; and, in four hours more, as not a drop of blood issued from the vessel, and there seemed to be no good in leaving an extraneous body in the wound any longer, the instrument was taken out altoge- ther. (See Assalini's Manuah diChinirgia,^. 110.) When Assalini was in England, he acquainted Mr, Hodgson, that in two cases of popliteal aneu- rism, in which he had himself employed this means of obliterating the femoral artery, the instrument was removed at the expiration of twenty-four hours ; no pulsation returned in the tumors; and the patients were speedily cured. With respect to the particular merit of this invention, it certainly possesses the recommend- ation of ingenuity: but it operates much in the same manner as several other mechanical con- trivances of the scrre-nmud of Dessault, the presse- arlere of Deschamps, that of Mr. Crampton (see Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vii.), the pincers of ;3aron Percy, &c. If there be a real advantage m the division of the internal coats of an artery by the ligature, as the experiments of Jones seem to prove, and as many of the best surgeons ni this country inculcate (see Hemorrhage and Liga- ture), then the compressor cannot be an eligible means of obliterating an artery. It may be said, however, that experience has proved its elhcacj , but, let it be recollected that almost every me- thod of operating upon aneurisms has Bometimes