I HERNIA. 985 body of the sac is oval and nearly transverse, it is found when attentively examined, to take the direction of the groin, which extends obliquely downwards and inwards, the outer rather smaller end of the swelling being somewhat higher than the inner. {Hesselbacli, p. 50.) The sac of the femoral hernia is said by Sir. A. I Cooper to be covered by a kind of membranous ex- pansion, consisting of condensed cellular substance {septum crttrale), and named by him the fascia propria, which is thus described:—" A thin fascia naturally covers the opening through which the hernia passes, and descends on the posterior part of the pubes. When the hernia, therefore, enters the sheath, it pushes this fascia before it, so that the sac may be perfectly drawn from its inner side, and the fascia which covers it left distinct. The fascia which forms the crural sheath, and in which are placed the hole or holes for the absorbent vessels {fascia crihriformis), is also protruded for- wards, and is united with the other, so that the two become thus consolidated into one. If a large hernia is examined, the fascia propria is only found to proceed upwards, as far as the edge of the orifice on the inner side of the crural sheath, by which the hernia descends; but, in a small hernia, it passes into the abdomen, as far as the peritoneum, and forms a pouch, from which the hernial sac may be withdrawn, leaving tliis, form- ing a complete bag over the hernia." (On Hernia, part 2, p. 6.) The thin fascia, described by Sir Astley Cooper, as shutting up the crural canal, and protruded by the viscera, is the septum crurale of M. Cloquet; who observes, that it resists the finger when we endeavour to pass it from above downwards beneath the crural arch. It is always perforated by small apertures for the passage of lymphatics. One of these apertures, more considerable than the rest, is central, and sometimes occupied by an elongated absorbent gland. The sac of femoral hernia sometimes pushes before it the septum crurale; and, in other instances, protrudes through one of its apertures, which may then become a cause of stricture. (See J. Cloquet, On Hernia, p. 40, tr. by McWIiinnie.) By Sir Astley Cooper, M. Cloquet, and the ge- nerality of surgeons, femoral hernia is described as protruding into the sheatli of the femoral vessels. The correctness of this description, however, Mr. Guthrie does not admit; but only because he will not consider the passage for the lymphatics, on the puljic side of the septum situated at the internal border of the femoral vein, as a portion of that sheath. " In all the dissections of femoral hemise (says Mr. Guthrie) I have had an opportunity of making, the septum cruralo of Cloquet, or the fascia propria of Sir Astley Cooper, formed a distinct sac, separated from the septum on the inside of the femoral vein, by a mass of condensed cellular structure, sometimes more than half an inch in thickness. The septum had been elongated into an outer sac for the liornin, and had gone down by the side of the sheath of the vein. The hernial sac, or peritoneum, is not then pro- jected into the sheath of the femoral vessels, but into a separate sac, which it forms for itself by the side of them." (On Intjuinul and Femoral Hernia;, p. .32.) Here the difl'crencc of opinion turns entirely upon the point, whether the passage for the absorbent vessels at the inner side of the sep- tum, or the pubic edge of the vein, is a compart- ment of the femoral sheath or not. In every dissection of femoral hernia performed by Mr. Todd, this thin fascia, the septum crurale, was sufficiently evident. It appears to him, how- ever, that the fascia propria " is formed, not only of a portion of this internal fascia, but also, in many instances, of all the dilatable parts inter- posed between the hernial sac and the superficial fascia; and that its thickness will depend on the thickness and structure of these parts; on the al- terations produced in them by inflammation and pressure; and on the perforated portion of the crural sheath, in some cases, composing a layer of this fascia; while, in others, the hernia dilates, and is protruded through one of the foramina, fre- quently pushing before it a large absorbent gland from the orifice of the sheath." (C. H. Todd, in Dublin Hospital Reports, \o]. i. p. 248.) As explained by Sir A. Cooper, a weak aponeu- rosis, derived from the superficial fascia of the bend of the thigh, covers the swelling, and lies immediately beneath the skin and. adipose sub- stance. Under this fascia is the condensed cellu- lar substance or fascia propria joined with the expansion of the crural sheath, then some adipose substance, and lastly, the true peritoneal sac itself. It is of infinite use to remember these several in- vestments in operating, lest the hernial sac should be supposed to be divided, while it is not so. [The many elaborate descriptions given by dif- ferent authors of the structures implicated in femoral hernia serve, it is to be feared, rather to confuse the practical surgeon than to enlighten him. Fortunately, the finger of the operator will guide him to the stricture, whatever may be its name, and however variously described. In like manner, his eye must direct him in dividing the coverings of the sac, whatever these structures may be, and however complicated their connec- tions. With regard to the parts which form the stric- ture in dilferent cases of femoral hernia, they may be thus enumerated :—1st, the crescentic edge of the fascia lata ; 2nd, Poupart's ligament and the deep crural arch ; 3rd, Gimbernat's ligament; 4th, the neck of the sac. Of these the only structure not sufficiently described in the foregoing pages is the deep crural arch, or Iley's ligament. The fascial fibres composing this structure are situated in contact with and are adherent to the under surface of Poupart's ligament for its inner half. They cross therefore the upper part of the sheath of the femoral vessels to which they adhere. The fibres of the deep crural arch may be said to com- mence at the centre of the superficial surface of Poupart's ligament, to pass obliquely from without inwards, and from bcf)re backwards underneath it, to gain the deep surface of Gimbernat's ligament, where they may bo said to terminate. They would consequently intervene between the neck of the .sac of a femoral hernia and Poupart's ligament, and would be the first structure divided by theoperator's knife in cutting upwards {mm the neck of the sac towards that ligament. With respect to the cover- ings of a femoral hernia in addition to the skin and superficial fascia, throe are generally enumerated namely—1st, the cribiifiirm fascia; 2iid, the sheath of the fenmral vessels; and 3rd, the septum crurale or fascia propria of Sir Astley Cooper. The first or cribriform fiiscia is simply that portion