1028 HYDK. the laboratory of life by the direct union of hydro-1 gen and oxygen. Thus, virtually, a constant and necessary correlation exists between the water re- ceived into the system and the water evacuated. The water employed in the economy is an ap- proximate measure of the activity of the vital processes. The most healthy members of tl\e community will be found in classes of men who, from laborious exertion, perspire freely and drink freely ; their assimilation of solid food being in direct relation to the disintegration of tissue ; both being measured, approximatively, by what may be termed tlie water of compensation. Of course this relation is disturbed when stimulating drinks are taken in excess, or the blood contains any other acrimony. But it is well illustrated, although the cases are not quite parallel, in the vegetable kingdom. Take two plants of the Cohcea scan- dens; place them as nearly as possible under si- milar circumstances; water one freely, and you may make it grow at the rate of four or five inches daily ; water the other scantily, and it will not grow above an inch daily ; the assimilation of solid matter and the growth of the plant are just in proportion to the water employed. Bearing this in view, there are classes of society wlio never undergo laborious exertion ; and numerous indi- viduals are to be found who rarely, if ever, freely perspire. Owing to the cold and humid climate, and their sedentary habits, the water discharged and renewed, in such subjects, is reduced to a minimum, and is inadequate to sustain the health- ful vigour of the vital processes. But for the action of the kidneys, the consequence of this state of things would be more immediately serious than it is ; yet the kidneys cannot continuously perform their own functions and supply the defects of the function of the skin, nor do they ever tho- roughly compensate for the loss of freedom in the action of the latter organ. The blood is the central reservoir of the water of the economy. By way of illustration, taking the estimate to be correct of the quantity of fluid required for the solution of the digestive princi- ples, the blood ought to part with the whole of its water of solution, and have the whole of it renewed in much less than twenty-four hours, for the pur- poses of primary digestion alone. The proportion of water habitually contained in the blood forms a part of the physical constitution. The tissues, as we have seen, contain fixed quantities essential to their integrity ; but they also always imbibe water as a liquid, holding saline and organic substances in solution. As there is a correlation between the water eliminated from and received into the blood, BO there is a constant and necessary correlation between the proportion of water ia the blood and the tributary fluids, jjicluding the fluid in the interstices of the tissues ; and the water in the blood and that habitually pervading the solids and fluids of the economy varies, within limits, without detriment to nutrition or healthy function. Water, then, constituting the largest, and one of the most essential of the constituents of the animal economj-, and of its various structures, a large and definite amount of it being necessary to digestion, to the circulation of the blood, lymph and chyle, to the double processes of assimilation and disin- tegration, constituting nutrition and secretion, to cell growth, and to the play of the vital affinities and nervous powers,—being the only solvent for the conversion of all the materials of nutrition into a liquid before they can be assimilated, and the reconversion of all the effete materials of the organic structures again into a liquid, before they can be eliminated, the body being subject to a daily and hourly loss of water, and the continuance of life absolutely demanding that such loss should be repaired, and the blood being the central reservoir, there can be no surprise that the con- dition of the blood, as respects the proportion of its aqueous constituent, and the quantity of water habitually passing through it, should exert a verj' powerful influence over all the organic functions. The quantity of water in the blood coreesponds with the quantity habitually forming a part of the physical constitution, and varies greatly in difierent individuals, according to age, sex, and temperament; there being a larger proportion in females than in males, in early than in adult life, and in the leucophlegmatic than in the sanguine temperament. Every individual has a physiological standard, for the blood and tissues generally, variable, without detriment to health, within confined limits. From water in excess, the body becomes disturbed, and, if diminished below the physiological standard, it collapses. A fixed amount is essential to each stnicture, but the proportion in all the solids and fluids may oscillate, within certain limits, without detriment to nutrition or healthy function. The system, in a state of health, is very sensi- tive of any considerable change in the proportion of water in the blood; taken into the stomach, it is rapidly absorbed, and, if not required for assimi- lation by the tissues or the blood, it is equally rapidly eliminated. At moderate or low tempera- tures of the surrounding medium, and when the body is at rest, the kidneys are the chief regulators of the fluidity of the blood. The blood being overcharged with water, ',as when drink is taken, not being required, the excess, if absorbed, is sud- denly expelled as urine, and the water separated at a rate precisely conformable to the concentration of the blood, the kidneys requiring and receiving but very little aid in this function by the lungs and skin. {Roberts; Observations on some of the daily Clianges of the Urine ; Edinburgh Monthly Journal, March and April, 1860.) Enormous quantities are taken by some indivi- duals, in hydropathic establishments, and a corre- sponding increase of urine takes place. Dr. Thudichum states that "a student drank fifteen half litres of weak beer within the hours from eight till eleven at night. A patient at one of the German Spas used to take sixteen half-pint glasses of weak saline water, between the hours of six and eight in the morning. In both cases, the quantity of urine discharged within the next hour amounted to about one-half of the quantity of fluid consimied during that hour, and in all cases, the excess o'' fluid seemed to be discharged within two hours and a half after the last ingestion. {Pathology of the f7n«e, 1858, p. 26.) The balance between the fluid ingesta and egesfa is maintained, liowever, at a high temperature, by the skin, with very little assistance from the kidneys. Large quantities of water may be tiken in hot weather, with the secretion of only a small quantity of high-coloured urine, and the same thing occurs under violent exercise, and in the hot-air batli. Under these various circumstances, the healthy action of the kidneys and skin in general, so effec-