357 A A 3 Local Treatment. I. lu a burn of the first class. There is simple redness of the skin. It is hotter than natural. There is very considerable pain, and more or less swelling, but no vesication. The practical question so long debated in such a case as this is, should we try to diminish and keep down the inflammation hy the application of cold, or should we use stimu- lating applications? The representatives of the two systems, the antiphlogistic, and the stimulating, have indulged in much warm controversy. In this, as in most other controversies, there is some truth on both sides. One plan need not be adopted to the entire exclusion of the other. Some cases are best treated in one way; others in the opposite; and it may appear that a middle course, avoiding each extreme, is safer than either. The use of cold has one great advantage : it may generally be adopted without delay. The bane and the antidote are close at hand. Many a cook, who has scalded her arms or legs with hot water| has at once found relief in a stream of cold water from the pump ; and the popular remedies of cold scraped potatoe, cold soapsuds, brown paper steeped in cold vinegar and water, or cold spirit and water, are daily used with excellent effect. So are the more orthodox cold applications of the surgeon, lead lotion, linseed oil and lime water, iced water, or a lotion of spirit, acetic acid and water. But the use of any of these cold applications must be restricted to cases, first, where the skin is not broken; and second, to those where the chest or trunk are not affected. In the latter case there would be danger of setting up pleuritis or peri- tonitis. The cases where it may be adopted are those of burns on the extremities when the skin is unbroken, and very little if any vesication has taken place. In these cases some matters of detail must be attended to. Any clothes over the injured part must be removed with great care, if they are removed at all. Carelessness may lead to tearing away of large portions of cuticle, and exposure of the cutis. If a limb be covered by a stocking or sleeve, it is often advisable to immerse it, still covered, in cold water, and afterwards keep the heat down by careful sponging. If the part does not happen to be covered, it should be covered with old Imen or lint, and this kept constantly wet with cold water, iced in summer time, if ice can be pro- cured. Care must be used not to remove the ra<T3 trom the burnt surface. The application of coM must be contnnied steadily as long as heat and pain return. Very probably any inflammation set up terminates in resolution under this treatment, or vesication may take place. In cases of vesication of superficial burns of the chest or trunk, when the applicationof cold is contra- md.cated, two principles are to be borne in mind; hrst that reaction appears to be controlled by om- dualli/ bringing down a burnt part to its normal temperature ; and secondly, that air must bo ex- cluded from the inflamed skin. II. When vesication has taken place —simple vesication without abrasion of the cuticle —the same pnnciple of excluding the air must be acted on. It 13 not a matter of great importance whether the skin be covered with cotton wool; or dredged with flour, or chalk, or any harmless powder- or covered with rags steeped in the oil so famed for ■ta good effects at the Carron ironworks,—a mix- BUKNS. ture of linseed oil and lime water. The principle is the same. The air is excluded which would otherwise stimulate the inflamed surface and induce inordinate reaction. A solution of gum arable applied on rags forms a very soft and pliant dress- ing for this purpose. More recently, a varnish made by mixing one part of castor oil with two parts of neutral collodion has been used as a sort of artificial cuticle, and with very good effect. It would be hard to say which of these applications is the most useful in all cases ; but it is quite cer- tain that in any individual case that is the most useful and the one that should be used which is nearest at hand. The surfjeon, tlierefore, should know the best way of applying them all. If both are at hand the cotton is more cleanly and com- fortable than flour, which is apt to become hard and crack when moistened by pus or serum. If cotton be used it should be spread smoothly and evenly over all the burnt surface, and secured by a loose bandage. One great advantage of this dress- ing is the avoidance of the pain which attends other dressings requiring frequent renewal, for this may be left unchanged for many days. Dr. An- derson, of Glasgow, who has used it on a large scale says {Glasgow Me^. Journ. vol. i.) that there] appears to be a twofold effect from this kind of treatment. The primary effect arises from the exclusion of the air, and the slowly conducting power of cotton, by which the heat of the part is retained, whilst a soft and uniformly elastic pro- tection from pressure is afforded. The secondary effect, he says, depends entirely on the sheath, or case, formed by the cotton, absorbing the effused serum, or pus, and giving the best possible sub- stitute for the lost cuticle. "But, in order that the lull benefit may be derived from this substitute and to ensure an equable and continued support to the tender parts, until the new skin is formed, it IS absolutely necessary that the cotton should not be removed, except under particular circumstances, until the rea cuticle is sufficiently formed to bear exposure (p. 217). If much constitutional irritation be evinced after the cotton has been for some time applied, Dr. Anderson confesses that it may be necessary to let out the discharge, or even remove the cotton altogether. [If flour be -used instead of cotton, or starch arrowroot, chalk, or any innocent powder that may be at hand, it must be dusted evenly over the whole burnt surface until a soft uniform covering has been formed completely excluding the air This IS then to be secured by a bandage. If anv of the moist applications above referred to be used on rags, it is necessary to be very careful that the rags are not allowed to become dry and adhere to the cuticle, or the wliole of the sianated cutic e may be raised with the linen, and a^imple veS tion IS thus converted into a painful ulcer. The raised cuticle ,s the best protection from the 'cutis.] the Some surgeons are in favour of opening vesi- cles as soon as they have formed; while others assert that they should not be meddled with Mr B. Bell disapproved of opening them till the pain arising from the burn had entirely ceased Then 'e thought that they should always be pu'nctuied because when the serum remained a long wliHe upon the subjacent skin, he found it likely to brin^ on ulceration. He was certainly right in cxpress-