HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. 921 rone of the outer table, sufficiently justify such an experiment in desperate cases, or even in those in which there is much danger." Mr. Cocl< {Guy's Hospiial Reports, April 1842) details an interesting case illustrating the propriety of the treatment here advised. " A man fell from a height of seventeen feet and pitched upon his head. He was stunned by the fall, but was reco- vering from the shock at the time of his arrival at the hospital. He had lost a large quantity of blood. A severe scalp wound extended from the middle of the forehead along the vertex of the skull, and terminated to the left of the occipital tuberosity; the upper third of the left parietal bone was exposed ; the occipito-frontalis tendon was torn up in patches, and in one or tivo spots the bone was denuded. No fracture could be detected. He was collapsed, but easily roused; had not vomited, and his pupils were obedient to light. He afterwards had a severe attack of haemorrhage from the wounds of the scalp. Tliis was aiTested by pressure. He was then perfectly sensible. He got out of bed at four o'clock in the morning, nine hours after his admission, and passed his motions. When spoken to by the nurse, he answered incoherently. At eight o'clock the dresser found his respiration labouring, ster- torous, and interrupted, with entire loss of con- sciousness, his pupils contracted and insensible. These symptoms continued to increase, and when I saw him about noon his case appeared to be nearly hopeless. His breathing was then in the highest degree stertorous, rapid, and laborious ; pulse quick, weak, but rather shai-p. No differ- ence in the two eyes, the conjunctiva ecchymosed on each side. On pinching the left arm and leg they were freely and readily retracted ; but not the slightest motion could be excited in either ex- tremity on the right side. There appeared to be some paralysis of the muscles on the right side of the face." Mr. Cock, viewing the symptoms as the result of effusion of blood upon the dura mater, cut down over the anterior inferior angle of the left parietal bone, and exposed the cranium freely in that direction. Not the slightest indication of fracture could be discovered. He then removed a portion of the parietal bone above and behind the anterior inferior angle with a full-sized trephine. The moment the elevator had detached the bone, a gush of blood took place through the opening, and a clot was discovered beneath. "The interior of the cranium, as far as could be felt, presented no irregularity or trace of fracture. A small quantity of the coagulum was removed, and the wound was covered with lint dipped in water. The deep etertor of his breathing ceased almost on the instant that the bone was raised, and he was evidently relieved by the operation. Blood con- tinued to ooze from the opening in the skull, but there did not appear to be any active haemorrhage." The case proceeded favourably up to tlie ninth or tenth day after the accident, when he began to get restless and uneasy, with a sloughy and offensive state of the wound ; after which he became irritable, but still sensible, although re- lapsing into a rambling incoherent state, with occa- sional exacerbations. His unfavourable symptoms increased. His pulse became sharp, quick, and irritable. He was with difliculty roused from his low muttering state. There were incessant twitch- ing motions of the right arm and leg, and right side of the face. " On examining the trephine wound, I found that the dura mater had risen into the opening of the bone, so as completely to shut out all communication with the interior. The pulsa- tion of the brain was evident, but the membrane was dry and covered with an inspissated secretion round the circumference of the aperture in the bone. After the application of a poultice, a free discharge of ill-conditioned pus, mixed with decom- posing coagulum, took place from between the dura mater and the cranium, after which his unfavour- able symptoms subsided." He eventually got perfectly well. If the blood is found fluid on the removal of the bone, it escapes immediately, and the sj'mp- toms are at once relieved ; but if it is coagulated some time elapses ere any effectual relief can be anticipated. The resistance to the motions of the brain being thus taken off, the natural pulsations are gradually restored, and the brain will again receive its due supply of blood from the arterial circle at its base. The evident heaving of the brain on the removal of the bone is an important salutary indication, and it ought not to be over- looked. But we are not to suppose that all mis- chief has ceased when the pulsations of the brain are restored ; for there are few instances where, be the mischief ever so extensive, some slight movement of the brain is not perceptible : but the converse is undoubtedly tree, and the absence of any motion in the brain is a very serious sign, and indicates a high degree of mischief, and a greater extent of effusion than can be exposed and relieved by the trephine. Pressure from effused blood occasionally admits of temporary relief by the free abstraction of blood ; but the surgeon will in all probability be much disappointed to find a speedy recurrence of all the dangerous signs of pressure, and should waste no more time in the use of general measures, but proceed at once to the application of the trephine provided clear indications of the seat and cause of the pressure are present. The tenacitv with which the coagulum adheres to the surface'of the dura mater renders the attempt to cleanse this mem- brane by forcible scraping highly injurious; but if the effusion is very recent and the coagulum but loosely adherent, it may be very carefully sponged away, so as to afford an exit to any subsequent effusion. Mr. Guthrie makes especial allusion in speaking of the probability of recovery after the trephine in hoemorrhage from the spinous artery, to the speedy restoration of the brairi to its natural level, and asserts "that, in all cases where recovery took place, the brain had not lost its resiliency, and had been seen to regain its natural level on the removal of the deprossincr '■iiise." (Loc. cit.) ° Effusion of blood into the arachnoid cavity from rupture or laceration of one of the sinuses of the dura mater or any other cause, is generally fatal especially if accompanied with laceration of the brain. But the symptoms are usually not so well marked as where the pressure arises from ha;mor ■■ age upon the dura mater alter nipture of the spinous artery, a circumstance probably dependinir m the former case on the facility with which the blood 18 diffused over the general surface of the brain. Before the trephine is applied, it is impos- sible to diagnose this condition. It is hichlv probable that small effusionB of blood into the