619 EMPHYSEMA. the pleura and intercostiil muscles, tlio air escaped tiu'oiigh the same track, and passed iuto the cellular tissue ou the outside of the chest. A violeut effort of respiration lias sometimes produced a certain degree of emphysema, which first makes its appearance about the clavicles, and afterwards spreads over the neck and adjacent parts. The efforts of labour have been known to occasion it. {Medical Communications, vol. i. p. 176; Blackden, in A[ed. Fads and Experiments, vol. ii. ; Wilmer''s Obs. in Surgery, p. 143 ; and Halliday on Emphysema.') Dr. Johnson, of Dublin, met with six examples of this in his practice. In general, the emphy- sematous swelling is confined to the neighbourhood of the throat, where it first makes its appearance ; but it may spread to a vast extent, and even to the very tips of the fingers. In hooping cough emphysenia may be produced, as proved by the observations of Drs. Johnson, Mackintosh, and Beattie. (See Cyclop, of Pract. Med. art. Em- physema.) I agree with the writer of this article in thinking it highly probable that many cases of emphysema supposed to be spontaneous, really proceed from a rupture of the air-cells of the lungs. Thus, besides the emphysema, which sometimes appears on the sides of the thorax, when much force.is employed to reduce a dis- location of the humerus, which was believed by Desault to depend upon a rupture of the air-cells, caused by the violent efforts which the patient makes to hold his breath during the reduction of the dislocation, the emphysematous swellings, which are noticed occasionally in hysteria, may admit of similar explanation, the air being forced through the cellular tissue of the lung and medias- tinum by the violent efforts at expiration made during the paroxysm, while the glottis is spasmodi- cally constricted. {^Townsejid, ih.) Louis described an emphysema, which, on ac- count of its cause, and the indication furnished by it to the practitioner, is highly important. It took place in a young girl, who died suffocated from a bean falling into her windpipe ; and he considers it, though not correctly, as a pathognomonic symp- tom of such an accident, concerning the existence of which it is so essential not to commit any mis- take. (See Tracheotomy.) It made its ap- pearance on both sides of the neck, above the clavicles, and came on suddenly, on the third day after the accident. The inspection of the body proved, that the lungs and mediastinum were also in an emphysematous state. The retention of the air, confined by the foreign body, produced, says Louis, at each attempt to expire, and, especially, when the violent fits of coughing occurred, a strong propulsion of this fluid towards the surface of the lung, into the spongy surface of this viscus. Thence, the air passed into the cellular texture, which unites the surface of the lung to the pleura pul- monalis ; and, by communications from cells to cells, it caused a prodigious swelling of the cellular tissue, between the two layers of the mediastinum. The emphysema, increasing, at length made its appearance above the clavicles. This tumefaction of the lung, and surrounding parts, in consequence of the air getting into their spongy and cellular texture, is an evident cause of suffocation, a':d the swelling seems so natural an effect of the presence of a foreign body in the trachea, that one can hardly fail to think it an essential symptom, though no author has made mention of it. (Mem. da I'Acad, de C/iir. t. iv. in 4to.) The emphysematous swell- ing, sometimes formed in the axilla, in the reduc- tion of a dislocated shoulder was accounted for by Desault and Bichat, on the same principle as the foregoing case, viz. a rupture of one of the air-cells, by the patient's efforts to hold his breath during the reduction of the bone. The example, lately recorded by Dr. Ireland, as one of idiopathic emphysema following pneu- monia, bears so strong a resemblance to the case above cited from M. Louis, that I cannot refrain from suspecting, that it may have been one of the same nature. (See Trans, of the King's and Queen's College of Physicians, vol. iii. art. 4.) An emphysematous swelling of the head, neck, and chest, has also been noticed in typhoid fevers. Dr. Huxham relates an instance of this sort, in a sailor of a scorbutic habit. {Medical Obs. atid Inquiries, vol. iii. iirt. 4.) Another example in a case of bilious fever is on record. (See London Med. Repository, No. 73.) A case of spontaneous emphysema is likewise described by Dr. Baillie. (See Trans, for ilie Improvement of Med. and Chir, Knoivledge, vol. i. p. 202.) A curious example of what has been called a spontaneous emphysema, is reported by Mr. Allan Burns :—" The patient was a strong athletic man, who, about six years previous to his application at the Royal Infirmary, had received a smart blow on the neck from the keel of a boat. This injury was soon followed by the formation of a firm tense tumour, on the place which had been hurt. The swelling increased very slowly, during the five years immediately succeeding its commencement; but, during the sixth, it received a very rapid ad- dition to its bulk. At this time, it measured nearly six inches in diameter, seemed to be con- fined by a firm and dense covering, and the morbid parts had an obscure fluctuation. From the first to the last, the tumour had been productive of very little pain. " Judging from the apparent fluctuation that the tumour was encysted, it was resolved, at a consul- tation, to puncture the swelling,' draw off its con- tents, and (hen pass a seton through it. By plung- ing a lancet into it, only a very small quantity of blood, partly coagulated, and partly fluid, was discharged ; a quantity so trifling, that, after its evacuation, the size of the tumour was not per- ceptibly reduced. A seton was passed through the swelling. At this time the man was in perfect health. " About ten hours after the operation, the patient was seized with extremely violent rigors, followed by heat, thirst, pain in the back, excessive pain in the tumour, and oppressive sickness. " An emetic was prescribed; but instead of pro- ducing vomiting, it operated as a cathartic. To remove the irritation, the seton was withdrawn The pain in the tumour, however, and the general uneasiness continued to increase, and thirty hours subsequent to making the puncture, air began to issue from the track of the seton ; and afterwards the cellular membrane of the neck, and of the other parts of the body in succession, became dis- tended with a gaseous fluid. In the course of a few hours, after the commencement of the o-eneral emphysema, the man died. ° " Twelve hours after death, when the body was free from putriAiction, it was inspected. The cm-