ANEURISM. 238 part. An instrument was then contrived for the reception and compression of the ear. This had the effect of restraining the enlargement of tlie ear, but was found inadequate to destroy the erectile tissue, which still continued, notwithstanding the pulsation of the arteries had ceased. To have got rid of this portion of the disease, observes Dupuy- tren, it would have been necessary either to re- move the tissue composing it, or to cliange its organisation. The first plan, on account of the extent of the disease, he did not consider safe ; nor could he alter the nature of the disease. The historj'- of the foregoing case, resumed fif- teen years after the operation, proves th:it though tying the carotid artery is less efficacious in curing a tumor composed of erectile tissue, than a com- mon aneurism, yet it checks its progress, and diminishes its danger. After the carotid artery had been tied in the preceding case, the tumor made little or no progress ; the size of the ear re- mained stationary ; and no return of hemorrhages took place. But whatever may be the degree of benefit resulting from the plan of tying the principal artery leading to the disease, Dupuytren gives it as his decided opinion, that it ought to be resorted to when an erectile tumor has invaded a part where compression, cauterisation, and extirpation with the knife, are all impracticable. If there be no carcinomatous tissue blended with the erectile, the progress of the disease will, at all events, be retarded by the operation. (See Dupuytrerif Cli- nique Chir. t. iv. p. 5—26 ; and Breschet's Trans, of Hodgsoti's Treatise, t. ii. p. 296.) The experi- ment has been made of tying both carotids where the ligature of one proved insufficient to prevent the return of pulsation in the arteries immediately supplying the tumor. Dr. Mussey, of New Hampshire, in America, was consulted in Sep- tember, 1829, by J. Patee, aged 20, for a large pulsating purple tumor, situated upon the vertex of the head, with a base of about five inches in diame- ter, and rising about two inches above the cranium. The tumor, which had existed from infancy, had greatly increased during the three years anterior to the above date. Upon its apex was an ulcer, from which hemorrhages had occasionally taken place, and once to the amount of two quarts. " The left temporal artery and vein in front of the ear, seemed through the integuments five eighths of an inch in diameter, and the pulsations of the artery were visible at the distance of fifteen feet. A vein, passing from the tumor down the fore- head, was half an inch in diameter ; and when the head had been shaved more than twenty pulsating arteries were seen running to the tumor, none ot which were under the size of a goose-quill. Dr. Mussey, on the 20 th of September, tied the left com- mon carotid ; and finding this effectual, he applied a ligature to the right one, twelve days after the first operation. The tumor was covered with a com- press moistened with alum-water, and gentle pres- sure maintained with a bandage. In about three weeks from the period of the second operation, tiic swelling was not above one third of its original size. Five or six days later, it began ver}"- sligiitly to enlarge again ; its colour became deeper ; and a feelile thrill was sometimes perce))til)le in the left temporal artery. As Dr. Mussey found that tlie ligature of the carotid promised no further benefit, he dctoniiined to encircle tlie tumor by incisions, and to dissect it away rapidly from the pericranium. More than an hour was occupied in carrying the knife around the base of tile tumor ; for only an inch and a half of the scalp was cut at a time, and as soon as this was done, firm compression was made upon each lip of the incision, while the vessels were secured with ligatures, more than forty of which were applied in proceeding round the tumor. Notwithstanding these precautions, nearly two quarts of blood were lost. The patient was faint, and continued very feeble for several hours. The naked pericranium, in extent about twenty-five square inches, granulated favourably, and the part healed up. (See American Journ. of Med. Sciences for Feb. 18.30.) This case is instractive, as proving still more con- vincingly than perhaps any other case on record, that tying the carotid arteiy will not completely cure an aneurism by anastomosis on the head, though the plan has generally succeeded for swellings of this description in the orbit. Tk ligature, even of both carotids, in Dr. Mussey's ease, did not pre- vent the return of pulsation in the temporal ar- tery ; and this unpromising circumstance led him to adopt, without delay, the plan of encircling this disease by a succession of short incisions, in the way practised by Dr. Gibson. Time was not afforded to see whether the growth of the tumor would have been permanently checked, and the return of hemorrhages prevented b)' the ligature of both carotids, as happened in Dupuytren's case from the ligature of one of them. An interesting question here is, whether the ligature of the carotids made the final excision of the tumor safer, with respect to hemorrhage ? Without this preliminary measure. Dr. Gibson, we find accomplished what Dr. Mussey did with it. Some aneurisms by anastomosis, on or near the surface of the body, may be extirpated with a liga- ture. A needle, armed with a double ligature, is passed under the erectile tissue. As it is of im- portance that the ligature go more deeply than the deepest part of the swelling, the assistant ought to raise up the tumor from the subjacent parts, while the needle is pushed under its base. The needle having been cut off, one portion of the ligature is firmly tied over one half of the circumference of the swelling, and the remaining part of it over the other half. Thus the supply of blood to the swell- ing is completely cut off. After a few days, the diseased mass and the ligatures are detached by an ulcerative process ; and, as Mr. Guthrie ob- serves, if the disease has been completely removed, the ulcer heals without difKcultj', and the scar is often less than if the operation had been done with the knife. If the disease should not be completely removed, a second ligature may be applied, or, as I have sometimes preferred, the remains of the dis- ease may be extirpated with caustic and pressure. We arc informed that this method has been fol- lowed, for many years, by the surgeons of the Westminster Hospital. Mr. Keate has made an improvement in it, which consists in employing pins, which, by being passed across, but under- neath the tumor, admit of compression being made around a larger surface than could otherwise he included in the^ligature. (See Guthrie, On Dis. of Art. p. 3-16.) In one case thus treated by Sir ISenjamin Brodie, where the size of the swelling, which was on the forehead, was too extensive t.> be embraced with a needle and double ligature in the common way, he used straight pins, like