AMPUTATION. 106 adds twentj'-eight others, occurring in Europe and collected by Dr. Stephen Smith, making forty-six cases in all. Of the American cases five, and of the European twelve, were fatal ; making a total mortality of seventeen, or thirty-seven per cent. Of the different modes of operating. Dr. Markoe gives a " decided preference to that by the long anterior and short posterior flap. This has the advantage of throwing the wound on the most depending aspect of the stump, allowing easy exit to the discharges, and it moreover brings the cicatrix so far back be- tween the condyles that it is not exposed to pres- sure." " There is, it is true, nothing but integu- ment on the face of the stump, but that integu- ment is applied over a large, smooth, natural surface, well adapted to receive and sustain pres- sure." (See New York Journal of Med. vol. xvi. 1856.) In this country, disarticulation of the knee- joint has been very rarel}' practised. Mr. Syme, Mr. Fergusson, and others, have, it is true, of late years amputated occasionally through the condyles of the femur, in cases of disease of the knee-joint ; but these are not, strictly speaking, disarticulations of the knee. These cases will be again referred to. The writer is informed by Mr. Blenkins, of the Grenadier Guards, that seven amputations at the knee were performed by British surgeons in the Crimea, and that of these four died and three re- covered. It is stated by Dr. G. B. Macleod, tliat in four of these the articular end of the femur was removed. These four, therefore, should rather be considered as examples of the opera- tion suggested by Mr. Syme, than true disar- ticulations of the knee. (See Ed. Month. Journ. July, 1856, p. 38.) The following are the particulars of one of the three successful cases. In this case Mr. Blenkins was the operator. At the assault on the Redan, September 8, 1855, a soldier, aged 22, received a severe compound fracture of both bones of the leg, with extensive laceration of the integu- ments. The state of the limb did not admit of amputation of the leg ; it was therefore removed at the knee-joint, by the large anterior and small posterior flap operation, the anterior flap being made six inches in length. The patella was re- tained, and the cartilage on it and on the con- dyles of the femur was not interfered with. Tlie posterior flap was cut from without inwards, so as to remove as much as possible of the mass of muscles of the calf, which is left in the usual mode of cutting from within outwards. The flaps came together perfectly, and the wound healed in an unusually favourable manner. In three weeks it had all but closed, and at the end of six vveeks it was perfectly sound and cicatrized in every part. The end of the stump was beau- tifully rounded, and formed an excellent surface to receive the pressure of a wooden leg. Mr. Blenkins much prefers the operation with the long {interior flap, and he believes the mortality might not have been so great had this mode of proceed- ing been adopted in all the cases. In the French army in the Crimea, M. Bau- dens made amputation at the knee-joint one of tiie subjects to which he paid special attention. He savs that the opinion of all the principal surgeons engaged was that disarticulation of tlie knee should be preferred to amputation of the thigh in all cases where it is impossible to amputate through the upper part of tlie leg. This opinion is confirmed, he adds, " by all that he has seen in his hospital experience from Marseilles and Toulon to Con- stantinople and the Crimea. It is in fact incon- testable that disarticulation of the knee has suc- ceeded in a given number of cases more often than amputation of the thigh, even in its inferior third." According to M. Baudens, however, amputation at the knee should be preferred to that of the thigh, only on the express condition that it should be per- formed immediately; consecutively he thinks am- putation of the thigh should have the choice. The operation practised was invariably that recom- mended by M. Baudens, and by which the prin- cipal covering is obtained from the anterior part, (See Comptes Hendus, torn. xii. 1855, p. 1077.) The present Editor has recently (October 1857) performed this operation at St. Mary's Hospital, on a boy eight years of age, who laboured under necrosis of the shaft of the tibia and of its upper epiphysis. An anterior flap was formed from the integument covering the lateral and anterior part of the upper third of the leg. This flap, which was of sufKcient width and length to cover the con- dyles of the femur, was reflected upwards ; the ligamentum patellse was cut through and tlie joint opened. It was found that the disease had ex- tended into the joint, but lymph had been thrown out and plastic adhesions formed, so as completelj'- to separate it into an upper and lower compartment. In the upper compartment were situated the pa- tella and condyles of the femur free from disease. In the lower compartment was found the head of the tibia, denuded of cartilage, bathed in pus and partially necrosed. The adhesions and ligaments were now divided; the knife carried through the joint, and a short posterior flap formed. The flaps were adjusted by interrupted sutures and light dressings applied. The line of approximation of the flaps was completely behind the condyles of the femur. Union by the first intention took place except in the neighbourhood of the ligatures. These separated in the first fortnight. A few drops of synovia were on two or three occasions seen to ooze from the wound. In a month the stump was soundly healed, and the little patient was exhibited to the members of the Western Medical Society about five weeks from the performance of the ope- ration. At the present date, three months after the operation, the patella and anterior flap remain moveable on the condyles of the femur, and the weight of the body is borne without inconvenience on the end of the stump. Mr. Hussey also has lately amputated the log at the knee-joint, in the Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford, for necrosis of the tibia with immense hypertrophy of the integument and soft parts, in a lad aged i7. The operation was done with a scalpel, but the mode of proceeding is not stated. The condyles of the femur were not touched; the articular and semilunar cartilases were healthy. The amputated limb weighed 11J pounds. The last ligatures came away on the thirteenth day, and the patient was rapidly regaining health. (See Med. Times ami Gaz. Dec. 12,1857, p. C04.) Amputation at the knee-joint, although recom- mended by many surgeons of note in America and on the Continent, has been very rarely prac- tised in this countiy. Mr. Fergusson stated in UWC, that it had never, to his knowledge, been performed; and, in fact, with tlic exception of the Crimean cases, the two cases by Mr. Lane !iiid