896 motions of the jaw gradually Ijecame easier under antiplilogistic treatment, and he left the hospital. But It was noticed that ever since the accident his disposition was much altered. He was after- wards readmitted into the hospital complaining of his head. Pains in his head continued, and he had great difficulty in swallowing. After being transferred from one hospital to another he was seized with violent convulsions five months after the accident. In consequence of the violence he exhibited it became necessary to put him under restraint. He died after a severe attack of con- vulsions, accompanied with great congestion of the face. At the examination of the head, the right condyle of the lower jaw was found projecting into the middle fossa of the skull, into which it had been driven through a starred fracture of the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone. The neck of the condyloid process was partially destroyed. Somespicula of bone had wounded the dura mater, which was extensively inflamed and thickened. There was also a large abscess at the under part of the middle lobe of the brain." (Lnc. cit ) Before dismissing the subject of fractured base, it is requisite to mention some remarkable in- stances of extensive fracture which cannot be enumerated under the head of fractures of the vault or of the base. Sir Astley Cooper {Lec- tures, vol. i. p. 295) mentions a fatal instance of a circular fracture of the entire cranium by a blow on the vertex: the case oocurred in the practice of Mr. Chandler, of St. Thomas's Hospital. Mr. Luke mentioned to the writer the remarkable case of a child on whose head a heavy weight had fallen, where a separation between the anterior and posterior parts of the cranium appeared to have occurred, for one could be moved readily on the other. A curious train of symptoms existed after the accident, the child having an irresistible desire to turn round and round, as happens in the experimental sections of the cerebellum and optic tubercles. The patient is supposed to be alive now, the acci- dent having occurred more than thirty years ago. Guthrie mentions a fracture of a similar nature, which, however, was fatal. {See also Gulhrie, On Injuries oftlve Head, p. 66.) HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. the brain or its membranes It is very true th it in many cases there is not the slightest tendencv to this condition, and every surgeon of experience will acknowledge that it is quite unnecessary to resort ti those extensive venesections which were Treatment of Fractured Skull.—The treatment of fracture of the skull, when unaccompanied by depression of bone or by any signs of pressure on the brain, is to be conducted on principles of a strictly anti-inflammatory character ; and in cases of severe injury to the cranium, it is better to act on the presumption that a fracture has happened, than to resort to rude manipulation to detect a supposed fracture. Any attempt to ad- just a fracture of the skull is rarely called for, as no displacement generally happens ; and even in cases of comminuted fracture, where crepitation can be distinguished, it is better to leave the case to nature than to divide the scalp to adjust or remove the injured bone, and thus convert a sim- ple into a compound fracture. Where cases of this nature progress favour.ably the bone will often reunite, and no mischief need bo anticipated from the mode of union of tlie disjoined pieces. Therefore, in all suspected fractures of the skull, whether of the vault or base, the all-important indication to be held in view is to prevent by energetic measures the access of inflammation to • ... iviiiuii were invariably had recourse to formerly in all injuries of the skull, however trifling. Nay, in many cases, bleeding does harm, as it tends to prolong a condition of extreme debilitv, which is by no means an uncommon attendant on injuries of the skull, and which probably depends on the concus- sion and contusion the brain has suffered. We need not, however, pursue this subject here, as the treat- ment of concus^on and other affections resultina- from mjury will be treated of further on. In all cases, however, it is requisite to be exceedingly cautious in treating eases of injured head, and, where symptoms of cerebral injury exist, the head should be slightly raised, the hair should be cut close, or the head should be shaved if leeching is necessary, and cold lotions or ice should be kept constantly applied. Calomel purges and small and repeated doses of this mineral may be emploj-ed with the greatest advantage under careful inspection : these, together with bleeding generally or by leeches, saline medicines, and low diet and absolute quietude, comprise all that is necessary in the treatment of fractures of the skidl. But it often happens that a persistence in this lowering treatment is injurious, and it becomes absolutely necessary to give a moderate support to the system from the very commencement. The condition demanding this altered plan may be recognised by the state of the pulse and skin and general aspect of the face; the pulse is weak and unstead}', the skin is cold, and the general aspect indicates exti-eme depression. Under these circum- stances beef tea and weak wine and water may be administered with very great advantage. No positive plan can be laid down as applicable to all cases of fractured skull ; much must neces- sarily be left to the discretion of the surgeon, who will do well to use great circumspection and avoid being led into the old routine practice, totally in- applicable to many cases, of bleeding indiscrimi- nately in all cases of injured head.] Depressed Fracture. [When the skull is fractured, and one piece of bone is placed below its natural level as a conse- quence of the fracture, it is termed a fracture with depression, or depressed fracture. The importance of such case* is materially enhanced, because the capacity of the cranium is diminished, and the brain may thus become the subject of inconvenient pressure. The symptoms of pressure and its at- tendant phenomena will be considered under the head of Coaipression. The most simple form of fracture with depression is represented by those slight indentations of the cranial bones which occasionally happen to very young children froui falls or blows upon the head. Some cases of this have come under our own ob- servarioii, and we shall refer to two instances. The first was the case of a child nine months old ; the nurse having fallen down whilst carrying it, the head of the child came in contact with some iiard body : a verjf extensive depression of the right parietal bone was the consequence. 'When hist raised, the child was insensible, in which state it was brought to the London Hospital. Half an hour