'^■2 ANEURISM, femoral artery. (See p. 541, ed. 2.) Mr. Hodg- son has seen three aneurisms, situated at the com- mencement of the tibial arteries, cured by the same operation. {On Diseases of Arteries, ^o. p. 437.) But, 'as Scarpa remarks, though the Hunterian operation answers in the cure of aneurism in the bend of the arm, and at the upper part of the calf of the leg, it is not so effectual for aneurisms situated on the back or palm of the hand, or the dorsum, or sole of the foot. The free communi- cation, which the ulnar and radial arteries keep up with each other in the hand, and the tibial arteries have with each_^other in the foot, prevent the operation from succeeding, whether the bra- chial or femoral artery, or one of the two large arteries of the forearm, or leg, be tied. In proof of this statement, Scarpa cites two cases of aneu- rism seen by himself; one on the instep, the kind of case seen also by Guattani; the other in the sole of the foot; and a third case of the same dis- ease in the latter situation; all of which were found to be incurable by the ligature of the anterior tibial artery, (P. 311.) Scarpa thinks, however, that the operation of tying this vessel where it passes over the dorsum of the foot might succeed, if aided by compression, applied so as to stop the current through the other main channel ; and he seems to approve of this practice, because the plan of tying the artery above and below the disease (which is the most certain means of cure) could not be done without extensive incisions in the sole of the foot. In an aneurism at the lower part of the leg, Mr. Hodgson judiciously insists upon the prudence of tying the artery as near as pos- sible to the tumor, because the recm-rent cir- culation, through the large inosculations in the foot, might still cause the swelling to enlarge, in consequence of the blood sent into the sac from the lower extremity of the vessel passing through the aneurismal cavity into branches arising from the artery between the aneurism and the ligature. (P. 438.) However, in one case of aneiu:ism of the anterior tibial artery, Mr. H. Cline applied a ligature just above the tumor without success, and Sir Astley Cooper expressly recommends making an incision in the sac, and applying a liga- ture both above and below the swelling. {Lectures, ^c. vol. ii. p. G3.) Wlien an aneurism arises from the radial, ulnar, or interosseous arteries near the elbow, tying the brachial will suffice ; but if the disease be lower down, the vessel from which it proceeds must be taken up near the swelling. {Hodgson, p. 393.) A case, strikingly illustrative of this trutli, is recorded by Mr. Liston:—J. M. P., aged nineteen, applied to him on the 28th of July, on account of an aneurism of the left radial artery, about the middle of the forearm, occasioned by a wound. The tumor was as large as a walnut, and so compressible that it could easily be made to disappear. Pressure was tried at first, with apparent benefit; but, as it did not succeed, the humeral artery was tied on the 8lh of August, and with the efi^ect of completely removing the tumor. On the eighteenth day afterwards, how- ever, a small slough was detached from the cica- trix, and about three o'clock next morning a violent hemorrhage took place. Mr. Listen then deemed it necessary to lay open the sac, and tie the artery above and below the wound in it. (See Ediii. Med. Jouru. No. 90, p. 4.) Scarpa mentions a case, where the dorsal artery of the thumb was wounded ; but as the hemorrhage returned several times, and pressure failed in sup- pressing it, the surgeon took up the radial artery at the wrist. After cutting off this direct current of blood towards the injured, vessel, pressure on the wound proved effectual. Three months after- wards, the patient having died, the radial artery was found impervious for three finger-breadths below where the ligature had been applied, and the dorsal artery was likewise obliterated from the root of the thumb to the beginning of the palmar arch. Mr. Todd has published a case, in which he cured a large aneurismal swelling of the posterior side of the forearm by tying the brachial artery. From the description, I conclude that the disease was an aneurism by anastomosis, as it is termed ; but the particulars given by the author leave some doubt on this point. {See Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iii. p. 135.) The manner of exposing and tying the principal arteries of the leg and forearm will be described under the term Arteries. Of Aneurisms high up the Femoral Artery. Several facts, akeady specified in the preceding columns as having occurred manj' years before the operation of tying the external iliac artery was attempted, amounted to a full proof, that the circulation might go on in the lower extremit}', notwithstanding the artery in the groin were tied, or obliterated. On this point, some of Guattani's cases were most decisive. The ligature of the external iliac arter}', for aneurisms of the femoral artery in the bend of the groin, has now been practised so frequentlj', and the instances of success are so numerous, that all doubt concerning the propriety and utility of the attempt has entirely ceased. The French, who evinced great backwardness in espousing the Hmi- terian method of operating for aneiu'isms, though it is decidedly one of the greatest improvements in modern surgery, at one period showed great reluct- ance to practise the operation of tying the exter- nal iliac artery. M. Roux, however, who was in London about twenty years ago, saw the thing done, and his testimony, no doubt, had considerable influence in quickening the adoption of this bold, but, on the whole, very successful measure, bj"- his brethren in the capital of France. Still, as M. Roux remarks, " We cannot but blame the indifterence with wliich the operation is mentioned in some of the latest French surgical publications. At this moment (1815) we can reckon twenty-three facts relative to tying the external iliac artery, and on fifteen of the patients it has perfectly succeeded. In these twenty-three operations, I comprehend the two which were done in France ; one at Brest, by Delaporte, and the other at Lyons, by Bouchet ; cases, the authenticity of which cannot be doubted. In the number of successful cases, is to be com- prised Bouchet's operation, since the patient lived more than a year afterwards, and then died of the consequences of an inguinal aneurism of the op- posite side. "Sir A. Cooper alone had tied the external iliac artery six times before my journey to London, and during my stay there I saw him perform the operation once. Four of his patients were cntn-cly well ; one of the three others died, the tliirteenth week after the operation, of the bursting of an