1 inches and a half from the head of the fibula. These fibres having been divided, the artery will be found close to the inside of the bone. Above the point specified, the artery lies upon the tibialis posticus, under the deep fascia interposed between it and the muscles of the calf. No large nerve accompanies it. Liffalure of llie. Axillary Artery.—In proportion as this vessel approaches the hollow of the axilla, it gets nearer to the vein, and becomes surrounded by those nervous fasciculi, by means of which, one portion of the brachial plexus coninmnicates with another. Hence, to cut down to the artery in this place in the living body, and to tie it sepa- rately, is acknowledged to be an arduous task. The diffiealty is further increased by the distance of the vessel from the surface. Hence, M. Manec objects to any attempt being ever made to apply a ligature to the artery between the pectoralis minor and the lower border of the subscapularis. Inde- pendently, says he, of the difficulties of the opera- tion, this part of the axillary artery would be un- fevouraljle to its success, on account of the several branches which are given off from it, near one of which the ligature must be placed. Directly the axillarj- artery has arrived opposite the lower border of the gieat pectoral muscle, the diflSculty ceases. Here the brachial plexus no longer exists ; each of the different nerves arising from it has taken the course to its particular des- tination, and the artery is only covered by the integuments and fascia. Behind, it rests upon the tendons of the teres major and latissimus dorsi; in front, it corresponds to the coraco-brachialis, from which it is separated by the median nerve. At its inner side are the internal cutaneous nerve, and the axillary vein, which sometimes consists of two or three branches, and renders the dissection of the artery more tedious. Farther backward than the axillary vein are the ulnar and rausculo-spiral nerves. The relation of these last nerves to the artery it is of great importance to recollect, in order that neither of them may be mistaken for the median nerve. In the operation of taking up the extremity of the axillary artery, the patient should be placed upon hi8_ back, and the arm raised from the side. An incision, two inches and a half in length, is to be made six or eight lines behind the anterior margin of the axilla, through the skin and subcu- taneous cellular tissue. A piece of the fascia is then to be lifted up with the forceps, and an open- ing made in it, by cutting transversely, close to the end of the forceps ; then a director is to be passed into the opening, and the fascia slit up to the ex- tent of the external wound. If the fascia be tough and dense, so as not to afford convenient room, Manec recommends the incision in it to be con- verted into a crucial one. These things having been accomplished, the further use of the knife is not necessary. The anterior edge of the wound being now lifted up, the coracho-brachialis will be seen, and the median nerve at its inner side. This nerve being detected, the artery will be found behind it. M. Maiiec offers valuable cautions witli refer- ence to the manner of avoiding the serious mistake of supposing the ulnar or miisculo-spiial nerve to be the median. To escape this blunder, he very properly insists upon the prudence of proccediiitr backwards from the coraco-brachialis, for in doing ARTERIOTOMY. 291 so the first nerve arrived at is the median. (See Manec, Traite de la Lig. des Arleres, fol. Paris 1832, Expl. of pi. 6.) In the case of a wound,' however, the surgeon has not exactly the choice of the place fiir the application of the ligature to the axillary artery. Here he must obey the rule of applying it to the wounded part of the artery, and putting one ligature above and another below the bleeding orifice ; or if the artery be completely severed, both its extremities will require to be tied. In taking up the axillary artery, when it is wounded, Scarpa believes that nothing tends more to embarrass the surgeon, than an injudicious smallness of the first incision through the skin and such other parts as conceal the wound in the ar- tery. An assistant must compress the vessel, from above the clavicle, as it passes over the first rib. When the weapon has penetrated from below up- ward, directly into the axilla, the surgeon is to make a free dilatation of the wound upon a di- rector, or his finger. This must be done ti) a sufficient height to expose a considerable portion of the artery, and the precise situation of the wound in it. When the weapon has pierced obliquely, or from above downwards, through a portion of the great pectoral muscle, into the axilla, Scarpa ad- vises the surgeon to cut through the lower edge of this muscle, and enlarge the wound, on a director, or his finger, so as to bring fairly into view the injured part of the artery. The thoracic arteries, divided m this operation, must be immediately tied The clots of blood are then to be removed, and the bottom of the wound cleaned with a sponge by which means the opening in the axillary artery- will be more clearly seen. As this vessel" lies im- bedded m the brachial plexus of nerves, the surgeon must take care to raise it from these latter parts with a pair of forceps, before he ties it. Two ligatures will be required ; one above, the other below, the wound in the artery ARTERIOTOMY (from aprr,pia, an arterv, and T.^^o., to cut). The operation of opening an artery, and taking blood away from the system in this manner, for the purpose of preventing, alle- viating, or curing disease. The only arteries of any size from which blood is ever taken in practice are the trunk and branches of the temporal arterv which lie in such a situation that after the due quan- tity of blood has been taken away the bleeding can be readily stopped by compressing the wounded part ot the vessel against the neighbouring portion of the cranium. A narrow sharp-pointed bistoury or a lancet, a basin for the reception of the blood a compress, and a roller, are the only things required. In general, it is best to open the trunk of the temporal artery ; but sometimes its frontal or occipital branch will yield blood enough. When the part of the artery which the surgc^m chooses to open lies near the surface and its%ulsation very dis iiict and even visible, it may be openecl • once with a lancet. But, in many instance helt.^ first to make a cut in the" skin, an 1 1 Jn punctiire t c vessel. In all cases, ti e surged s lould recol ect,-]st. That the temporal a,^ -J a.Id Its branches are covered by the skin, adipose eel nlar tissue, a thin aponeurosis, and the slender ;<>id pa e fibres of the anterior am is muscle. 2ndly 1 hat the trunk of the artery divides in ,he temple,' "bout hfteei. hues above the zygoma, and is situated about four lines in front of the meatus t; 2