623 EMPYEMA, the abscess has burst internally, is large, and tli pus escapes from it in considerable quantity at time, the patient is in some danger of being sull'o- cated. However, if the opening be not immoderately large, and the ■ pus, which is effused, be not too copious, a recovery ma}"^ ensue. Collections of matter in the liver may also be discharged by th_ pus being coughed up through the trachea, when tlie parts affected become connected with the lun by adhesions, and the abscesses of the liver are situated on its convex surface. When the collec- tion of matter in the liver takes place on its concave surface, the pus sometimes makes its way into th colon, and is discharged with the stools. Several cases of this kind are related by authors : Sabatier has recorded two {Med. Opcratoire) ;. he Dran makes mention of others; and Pemberton {Diseases of the Aldominal Viscera, p. 36) relates additional instances of a similar nature. I shall now proceed to the consideration of em- pyema, strictly so called. Sometimes it is consequence of a penetrating wound of the chest , occasionally it proceeds from the bursting of one or more vomicae ; in a few examples, it arises from the particular way in which abscesses of the liver burst {Journ. de Med. t. iii. p. 47. Morgagni. epist. XXX. art. 4); but, in the greater number o instances, originates from pleuritic inflammation either acute or chronic. {Boyer, Mai. Cliir. t. vii p. 352.) Empyema more rarely takes place in both than in one cavity of the pleura. Sometimes firm adhesions intersect the purulent effusion, and divide the sac of the pleura into distinct compartments. Dr. Townsend examined the body of a patient, who died of empyema in the Whitworth Hospital, and in whom the effusion was contained in three compartments, so perfectly distinct from each other, that, if paracentesis had been performed, only one of the three separate collections would have been discharged. (See Cyclop, of Pract. Medicine, art. Empyema.) In all cases the purulent, or thinner fluid of empyema may be said to be principally, if not entirely, a morbid secretion from the pleura; and even where pus or other matter is introduced from another source, as from the rupture of a pulmonary or hepatic abscess, the collection of fluid, which con stitutes the empyema consequent thereon, does not consist so much of the matter of the abscess, as of the morbid secretion from the pleura, whicli the irritation caused by the presence of that matter produces. (Townsend, ib.) In cases of empyema, tlie pleura is almost con- stantly lined with a coating of adventitious matter, which gives the interior of the chest much more the appearance of the walls of a large abscess, than of a cavity lined with a serous membrane. The membrane is susceptible of inflammation, ulceration, and gangrene, and when the latter change occurs, the detachment of the slough ma)' form an outlet for the empyema. The adventitious membrane of serous tissues is also capable of undergoing fibrous, cartilaginous, and calcareous transformations, and IS liable to the development of tubercles in it. These are generally small iind numerous, and mostly follow chronic plcuritis. Sometimes, how- ever, they form numerously and rapidly. (See Andral, Clinique Med. t. ii.) \yhen empyema arises from thoracic inflam- mation, plcuritis, or pneumonia, the sj'mptoms characterising it are usually preceded by those of the disease. Of which the effusion of pus into the pleura is the effect. Inquiry must, therefore be made whether the patient has had pleurisy' or peripneumonj', the symptoms of which have lasted longer than a fortnight : and whether, after a transient amendment, there have been frequent shiverings, followed by a low continued fever, with nightly exacerbations. Now these first circum- stances justify the belief, that the inflammatory disorder has terminated in suppuration, and that the symptoms afterwards experienced depend upon effusion of matter into the chest. Some of these symptoms arise from the mechanical action of the pus upon the lungs, heart, and parietes of the chest, and belong also to other effusions in the thorax ; the rest may be said to be the effects of ulcer- ation and suppuration of the parts on the animal economj', and, therefore, particularly belong to empyema. First, of the common symptoms, the respiration is difficult, short, and frequent; the patient sufters great oppression, and experiences a sense of suf- focation, and of weight upon the diaphragm. He cannot move about, even for a short time, without being quite out of breath, and threatened with syncope. He has an almost incessant, and very fatiguing cough, which is sometimes dry, some- times attended with expectoration. {Boyer, Mai. Chir. t. vii, p. 356.) Few writers of the last century have described the symptoms of empyema with more discrimina- tion and accuracy than Mr. Samuel Sharp. He remarks, that it has been almost universally taught, that, when a fluid is extravasated in the thorax, the patient can only lie on the diseased side, the weiglit of the incumbent fluid on the mediastinum becom- ing troublesome, if he places himself on the sound side. For the same reason, when there is fluid in both cavities of the thorax, the patient finds it most easy to lie on his back, or to lean forwards, in order that the fluid may neither press upon the mediastinum, nor the diaphragm. But it is no- ticed by Mr, Sharp, that, however true this doc- trine may prove in most instances, there are a few, in which, notwithstanding the extravasation, the patient does not complain of more inconvenience in one posture than another, nor even of any great difficulty of breathing. (See Le Dran's Obs, 217 ; and Mai-clieUi, 65.) On this account, observes Mr. Sharp, it is some- times less easy to determine when the operation is requisite, than if we had so exact a criterion as we are generally supposed to have. But, says he, though this maj' be wanting, there are some other circumstances, which will generally guide tis with a reasonable certainty. He states, that the Tiost infallible symptcmi of a large quantity of fluid in one of the cavities of the thorax, is a preternatural expansion of that side of the chest where it lies; for, in proportion as the fluid accumulates, it will necessarily elevate the ribs on that side, and prevent them from contracting so much in expiration as the ribs on the other side. This change is said to be most evident when the surgeon views the back of "le chest. {Boyer, vol. cit. p. 357.) Mr. Sharp so refers to Le Dran's Ohs. 211, vol. i., in order to prove, that the pressure of the fluid on the lungs may sometimes be so great, as to make them col- " ipse, and almost totally obstruct their function. Yhen, therefore, says ISIr. Sharp, the thorax be- ccmes thus expanded, after a previous pulmonary