155 ANEUlilSM. cuKitioii of the middle coat of an avtery will bring on au aneurism, while the inner coat is perfect, will appear to be unfounded, when Amussat's experiments are remembered, and also those of Hunter, Home, and Scarpa, who even dissected off the external and middle coats of arteries, with- out being able in this manner to cause an aneurism. Nay, where the experiment has been made of applying a tight ligature to an artery, and imme- diately removing it again in order to determine whether the division of both the inner coats of the vessel would terminate in an obliteration of the tube of the vessel, no aneurism has been the con- sequence. Pelletan accounts for the frequency of popli- teal aneurisms somewhat differently from Riche- rand: speaking of the two principal motions of the knee, viz. extension and flexion, he remarks, that the first of these is so limited, that it is actually an incipient flexion necessarily produced by the curvature backward both of the condyles of the femur and those of the tibia. This curvature, which would seem to protect the popliteal artery against any dangerous elongation, that might other- wise be caused by a forcible extension of the joint, becomes the very source of such an elong- ation in persons who are accustomed to keep their limbs bent, or who, from this state, proceed hastily and violently to extend the leg. The arterial tubes are really shortened, when the limbs are in the state of flexion, and lengthened, when the ex- tension of the members renders it necessary. Hence, says Pelletan, it is manifest, that an ha- bitually shortened state of these vessels, and their sudden elongation, must be attended with hazard of rupturing their parietes. {Clinique Chirurgi- cole, t. i. p. 112.) The opinion of Pelletan, however, is quite un- tenable : because Mr. Hodgson has several times repeated the experiment mentioned by Richerand, and found, as this gentleman did, that the coats of the artery were never lacerated, unless the degree of violence had been such as to rupture the liga- ments of the knee. (On Diseases of Arteries, <.^c. p. 64.) Aneurisms are exceedingly common in the aorta, and they are particularly often met with in the popliteal artery. The vessels which are next to these most usually affected, are the crural, common carotid, subclavian, and brachial arte- ries. 'J'he temporal and occipital arteries, and those of the log, foot, forearm, and hand, are far Jess frequently the situations of the present disease. But, althouali it is true, that the larger arteries are the most subject to the ordinary species of aneu- risms, the smaller arteries seem to be more imme- diately concerned in the formation of one peculinr aneurismal disease, now well known by tlie name of aneurism by anastomosis^ of which I shall here- after speak. According to surgical writers, the causes of aneurisms operate cither by weakening the arterial parietes, or by increasing tlu' lateral impulse of the blood against the sides of those vessels. It is said to be in both these ways, that tin; disease is occasioned by violent contusi(m3 of the arteries, the abuse of spirituous drinks, frequent mercurial cniirses, tits of anger, rough exercise, exertions in lifting heavy burthens, &c. In certain persons aneurisms appear to depend upon a particular organic disposition. Of this description was the subject whose arteries, on examination after death, were found by Lancisi affected with several aneurisms of various sizes. I have known a per- son have an aneurism of one axillary artery, which disease got spontaneously well, but was soon afterwards followed by a similar swelling of the opposite axillary artery, which proved fatal. I have seen another instance, in which an aneu- rism of the popliteal artery was accompanied with one of the femoral in the other limb. Boyer mentions a patient, who died of a femoral aneu- rism in La Charite', at Paris, and who had also another aneurism of the popliteal artery, equal in size to a walnut. ( Traite. des Maladies Ghir. 4'c. t. ii. p. 102.) The greatest number of aneurisms that Sir Astley Cooper has seen in one patient is seven; and it is a remark made by this emi- nent surgeon, that when an aneurism occurs in the ham, the disease is frequently of a local na- ture ; but that, when it is between the groin and ham, disease of other arteries is very commonly met with. (See Lectures, vol. ii. p. 37.) One memorable case, proving the existence of a dis- position to aneurisms in the whole arterial system, is mentioned by Pelletan: " J'ai pourtant vu plusieurs fois ces nombreux aneurismes occupants indistinctement les grosses ou les petites arteres, mais surtout celles de capacite ; J'e« ai compte soixante-trois. sur un seul homme, depuis le volume d'une aveline jusqu^a celui de la moilie. d'un ceuf de potde." {Clinique Chir. t. ii. p. 1.) M. Jules Cloquet relates a case, in which all the arteries were covered with aneurismal tumors, from the size of a hemp-seed to that of a large pea. Some existed on the aorta; but larger numbers on the arteries of the limbs. Altogether, there were some hundreds of them. Excepting in the situations of the tumors, the structure of the arterial coats had undergone no alteration. Here they were dilated and thinned. In none of them was any rupture of the internal or middle coat observed. The dilatations were continued into the small arteries, in which, however, they were less conspicuous than in those of superior size. (See J. Cloquet, Pa- tliologie Chir. p. 8b', pi. 2. 4to. Paris, 1831.) These aneurisms corresponded to the sacciform aneurisms of Breschet. Aneurisms, and those diseases of the coats of artei ies which precede the formation of aneurism, are much less frequently met with in women than in men. (Las.-us, Pathologie Chir. t. i. p. 348.) A few years before John Hunter died, Mr. Wilson heard him remark, that he had only met with one woman affected with true or spontanemis aneu- rism. (Anatomi/, Pathohq,/, ij^c. of the Vascular St/stew, p. 37(j.) The influence of the periodical loss of blood, during menstruation, on the vascular system of the female has not been sufficiently con- sidered in reference to the less frequent occurence of aneurism m women than in the opposite se.v. -elief from over distention enjoyed Doubtless the by the bloodvessels during the middle period of lile in females, when the catamenia are presont is one of the principal causes of the difference obser'-ed in the liarjility to this disease in the two se.xes Mr. Hodgson drew up the following table, ex- hibiting the compariitive frequency of aneurisms in the two sexes, in dilferent cases of this disease, and also in the different arteries of the bodv, as deduced from examples, either seen by himself, during the lives of the patients, or soon after their death: