569 DISLOCATION. with respect to shape, appears uninjured. If there is anj' difference from its usual appearance, it is that the ligament of the patella seems rather more relaxed than that of the sound limb. The leg is readily bent, or extended by the hands of the sur- geon, and without pain to the patient; at most, the degree of uneasiness, caused by this flexion and extension, is trifling. But the patient himself cannot freely bend, nor perfectly extend the limb in walking; and he is compelled to walk with an invariable and small degree of flexion. Yet, though the leg is stiff in walking, it may be freely moved while the patient is sitting down. Mr. Hey ascribed this complaint to any causes which had the eifect of hindering the condyles of the OS femoris from moving truly in the hollow formed by the semilunar cartilages, and articular depressions of the tibia; an unequal tension of the lateral or crucial ligaments, or some slight derange- ment of the semilunar cartilages. {JPract. Obs. p. 333. ed. 2,) Sir A. Cooper says, the most frequent cause of the accident is the point of the foot, while everted, striking against any projection, when pain is immediately felt in the knee, and the patient becomes incapable of perfectly extending the leg. He has also known the case produced by a person suddenly turning in bed, and the clothes not suffering the foot to turn as quickly as the rest of the body. A sudden twist of the knee inwards may also displace the semilunar cartilages. Sir A. Cooper gives the following explanation of the case:—The semilunar cartilages are united to the tibia by ligaments which, when relaxed, allow the cartilages to be easilj' pushed from their natural situation by the condyles of the femur, which then come into contact with the head of the tibia; and now, upon an attempt being made to extend the leg, a complete movement of this kind is prevented by the edges of the semilunar carti- lages. {Surgical Essays, part ii. p. 76.) In several examples recorded by Mr. Hey, a cure was effected by placing the patient upon an elevated seat, extending the joint, while one hand was placed above the knee, and then suddenly moving the leg backwards, so as to m<ake as acute an angle with the thigh as possible. {Pract. Obs. p. 337, &c.) This manoeuvre seems to have the effect of restoring the semilunar cartilages to their natural position, Some- times, however, it will not answer ; and, in one such case, mentioned by Sir A. Cooper, the patientused to accomplish the reduction by sitting upon the ground, and then bending the thigh inwards and pulling the foot outwards. A knee-cap, laced tightly, and fur- nished with a strong leather strap just below the patella, was requisite in this instance for prevent- ing a return of the displacement. In another case, subject to frequent relapses, these were at length hindered by a bandage with four rollers attached to it, which were tightly applied above and below the patella. {Sir A. Cooper, Surg. JSstays, part i'l. p. 77.) [Neither Mr. Key nor Sir A. Cooper appear to have observed any projection externally caused by the displaced cartilages. This, however, has been noticed in several instances, and it is almost inva- riably the internal cartilage which has been af- fected. This, perhaps, might have been expected, from its more semilunar shape, the wider separa- tion of its extremities, and the circumstance of its covering so much less of the articular cavity of the tibia than the external cartilage. In a case of this kind, seen by M. Malgaigne, there was a promi- nence at the inner side of the knee, which seemed to be caused by the internal semilunar'cartilage. In another, under M. Dequevauviller, in which there had been frequent relapses, there was a slight projection internally and posteriorly, which seemed due to the cartilage. {Malgaigne, t. ii. p. 968.) Mr. Vincent speaks of having had several of these cases under his management, and in his experience the injury always involved the internal cartilage. "They are marked," he says, "by the joint becom- ing, on some quick motion of the trunk about the axis on one leg, locked. Often there is great pain, and a slight projection of the anterior edge of the cartilage beyond the margin of the head of the tibia." "The pain is often excruciating, and will continue, yet the moment the cartilage is reduced no pain, or even tenderness, will remain." Mr. Vincent thinks "the true mode of manipulating here is to place the patient on his affected side, with the limb bent, and then to rotate gently the tibia on its axis. In this position the joint is loose, making no pressure on the cartilage, and it has the best chance of quietly slipping into its place." {Obs. on Surg. Practice, p. 75, 1847.) A case occurring at the London Hospital has been recorded as a dislocation of the extei-nal semi- lunar cartilage. From the description, however, it appears more to resemble the incomplete dislo- cation from rotation outwards. " The toe was turned a little outwards, and the tibia inclined in the same direction, the inner part of its head bore its natural relation to the inner condyle of the femur; the outer part, however, was carried a little backwards, leaving a hollow under the cor- responding condyle, and forming a slight projection behind, not discoverable except by pressing on the part with the finger." These symptoms afford no evidence of displacement of the cartilage, but are nearly conclusive of a partial rotatory dis- placement outwards. In this case various attempts at reduction were made by Mr. Luke, first by ex- tension, then by adduction of the limb, and then by flexion of the knee over a rolling-pin placed in the ham, but all were ineffectual, and the patient left the hospital in a month, unable to bring her heel to the ground or to extend the knee beyond a certain point. (See Lond, Med. Gax, vol. vii p. 704, 1831.)] Cojnpound Dislocations of tlic Knee-Joint. ■ Compound dislocations of the knee generally de- mand immediate amputation. [According to Sir A. Cooper, there are scarcely any accidents to which the body is liable which generally speaking, more imperiously demand am- putation than these. If, however, the wound in the skin is not large, and the bones can be replaced and maintained in their proper position without much difficulty if the muscles are not much lacerated, and the ves- sels and nerves are entire—if the patient is young and his constitution appears good—the attempt may be made to save the limb. Several cases have been recorded in which this practice has been resorted to with success; and some of these have been already referred to. In one instance Mr. Anthony White sawed oft' the articular end of the femur and a very useful limb is stated to have been the re- sult. If resection were resolved upon, it would pro- bably bo better to go further, and to saw off the