DISLOCATION. £83 pressed against the foot with his knee, so as to bring it into a position of forced adduction, and at tho same time pressed with hia thumbs strongly against the upper border of the displaced bone ; the astragalus turned round, and slipped into its place with an audible noise. This patient recovered perfectlj'-. In three of the other instances of simple disloca- tion, in which the reduction could not be effect- ed, the skin covering the prominent astragalus sloughed, and the bone was subsequently extracted and the patients recovered. In one, under M. Malgaigne, an eschar formed, but the patient died shortly after its separation, and without the bone having been extracted. In another, under M. Robert, the bone was exposed by a crucial incision, and removed live days after the accident, without waiting for the formation of a sloiigh. In the cases of compound dislocation inwards the neck of the astragalus has several times been found fractured. The bone has also sometimes been seen turned half round in the direction mentioned in M. Boyer's case. Once it was turned in the opposite direction, that is, its lower surface was turned inwards, towards the wound. The treatment to be adopted in compound dislo- cation has already been sufficiently explained.] 3. [Double or complete dislocation of the astragalus outwards.— This is much less common than either of the preceding. M. Malgaigne refers to five recorded cases only ; one of these was simple, the other four were compound dislocations. The case of simple dislocation outwards is recorded by Dupuy tren. Forced inversion of the foot appears to have been the cause, for the patient, in going down stairs, caught his left foot in the bannister, while the weight of the body drew the leg in the opposite direction. The foot was strongly adducted, the sole looking inwards ; the external malleolus was prominent externally, beneath it was felt another unequal, angular projection, continuous with a rounded prominence in front. The malleolus inter- nua was depressed and could not be feltj the tibia and fibula were uninjured. From this description it would appear that the astragalus was only partially disengaged from be- tween the bones of the leg and the calcaneum, and the external malleolus must have rested upon its upper surface. Dupuytren attempted tho reduction, and believed he had succeeded, but the following day the astragalus was again found projecting, and he attempted to press it inwards by means of compresses. An eschar formed, however, and compelled him to discontinue this treatment, and to confine himself to maintaining the foot in as good a position as possible. Two months afterwards the patient had a tolerably good use of his limb. In three of the other cases the astragalus pro- truded through a wound beneath the external malleolus, and was turned half round, so ns to present its trochlear surface outwards. In two of those the fibula was broken, in tho other it was uninjured. In all three the astragalus was removed, twice because it was found impossible to reduce it, once because it was already almost completely detached, and it would have been useless to re- turn it. (See Malgaigne, TVaitc dea Fract. ^c. t. ii. p. losr.) In another case, recorded by Dr. Norris of Pennsylvania, the astragalus was completely ex- pelled through a wound on the outer side of the ancle, and was picked up from the ground. This patient died of tetanus. (See Anier. Journ. of Med. Science, Aug. 1837, p. 383.)] 4. Double or complete dislocation of the astragalus bac/civards. — Until Mr. B. Phillips recorded two instances of complete dislocation of the astragalus backwards, no account of such a displacement had been published. One case happened in a gentle- man who threw himself from a carriage in conse- quence of the horses becoming unmanageable, and he alighted on his feet, but immediately fell. A projection presented itself just above the os calcis, the tendo Achillis was pressed backwards by the displaced astragalus, and at one point had reached to so near the surface that vesication subse- quently occurred directly over it. There was no fracture of the tibia or fibula ; the tibia was slightly displaced forwards upon the foot, and the os calcis retained it natural position. The reduction was found impracticable ; but in the end an articula- tion was formed between the bones of the leg and the OS calcis, and the patient was able to walk nearly upright. The second example occurred in a gentleman, who, as he was running with great rapidity after a cricket ball, placed his foot in a gutter. The toe rested upon the further side of this gutter, while the heel was jammed directly . into it, and he fell forward. The appearances were very similar to those in the preceding case. Some attempts at reduction having proved ineflfec- tual, and the foot being much swollen, Mr. Phillips declined to repeat them, and treated the case with leeches, quietude, &c. In the end scarcely any lameness remained, though, at the time the par- ticulars were written, the patient was obliged to wear a shoe, the hinder part of which was con- structed so as not to make pressure upon the projecting astragalus. (See Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xiv. p. 696.) [Other instances of this displacement have since been met with. Mr. Liston mentions one which happened in a young man who fell backwards down a staircase, and in the fall his foot became entangled in the railing. The astragalus was found lying betwixt the back of the tibia and the tendo Achillis, its upper articulating surface facing for- wards, the lower in contact with the tendon. All attempts to reduce the bone proved fruitless, violent inflammatory action followed, but gave way to active measures, and the limb ultimately became very useful ; in fact, though not till after many months, little lameness or shortening was percepti- ble. (See El. of Surg. 2nd ed. 1840, p. 753.) Mr. Lizars speaks of another case in which " the astragalus was driven backwards behind the tibia between it and the os calcis." All attempts at reduction wore unavailing, but nevertheless a useful limb was obtained. The astragalus was subse- quently nuich diminished by absorption. (Fract Surg. p. IG'l, 2nd ed. 1847.) A case of dislocation backwards, admitted into University College Hospital in 1839, is recorded in the iMncol, and is tho only one in which re- duction could bo accomplished. Tho dislocation was somewhat inwards as vvell as backwards, Tho foot was but slightly displaced. A hard tumor wns felt between the tendo Achillis and the inner malleolus, which was also fractured, and tho irregularity of tho broken surface of tho lower r !■ 4