ERYSIPELAS rially agglutinated and fixed, after the extensive destruction oi the connecting cellular texture, that the motions of the part are permanently and sori ously injured. (See Lmvrence, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiv. p. 12.) The integuments of an entire limb, from the tro- chanter to tile ankle, may form huge bags of matter, and be almost entirely detached from the fascia beneath. Nay, there may be suppuration under neath tlie fascia. In the body, and especially in the legs, the skin often mortifies to a large extent, owing to the cutting oft of the small nerves and nutrient blood vessels which supply it. [Hence, says Mr. Nunneley, the propriety of the caution on which Dupuytren so particularly insists, of'using the utmost care in dressing an erysipelatous leg, that we do not destroy the small bands which may yet connect the skin with the subjacent parts, lest we sliould still further deprive it of vitality by cut- ting oft' the only -remaining means of nutrition. This consecutive gangrene is rarely seen in the scalp, where, nevertheless, this form of erysipelas is frequent. The distribution of the arteries and nerves is very dififerent in the scalp from that of the limbs ; in it they are placed between the skin and the occipito-frontal aponeiu'osis. The tem- poral, fi-ontai, and occipital arteries are so connected to the integuments, that in dissection it is very difiicult to separate them. Now, as the suppura- tion takes place beneath the aponeurosis, the skin IS not deprived of its supply of blood or nervous energy, and consequently maintains its vitalitj', even though the whole of the cellular tissue between the pericranium and aponeurosis be de- stroyed, as does sometimes happen. (Nnnnelev. op. cit. p. 169.)] The attack of phlegmonous erysipelas, and especially of the spontaneous form of it, is an- nounced by a greater or less degree of shivering, which is followed by heat, and febrile disturbance. The fever, though of the continued type, - has paroxysms and remissions, two or three times a day. A slight uneasiness in the skin is often felt twenty-four or thirty-six hours before the shiver- ing takes place. The skin afterwards assumes a rose colour, which is not uniform, but has a wind- ing appearance ; and in this stage, whether the case is to be simple or phlegmonous erysipelas would be difficult to prognosticate, were it not for a degree of ajdemain the subcutaneous cellular texture, and the pitting caused by the pressure of the finger. Afterwards the symptoms increase, the fever is redoubled, and the finger, strongly pressed upon the skin, no longer makes an im- pression or hollow in it ; but, on the contraiy, feels a considerable resistance ; the redness, which is intense, assumes a darker, or even a purplish colour ; the skin becomes shining ; phlyctena; arise ; the cellular tissue is dense and indu- rated ; the urinous and other secretions are di- minished, altered, or suppressed ; and the patient is in a constipated, sleepless, and extremely agi- tated state. (See Dupiiytren in Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 310.) [-D%Hosw.—Erysipelas is not likely to be con- tounded with scarlatina, roseola, or any other of ine exanthemata, which, instead of being con- nned to one part, or wandering slowly, appear •dmost universally diffused, or rapidly pass over the entire surface. So also, letn-een ciysipelaa and phlegmonous inflammation, in most cases ther Nn3r ■ ^" P^^'^^P"""' »«3-S Mr. nml 1 fl' ■"^'^"''"•'^t'on is well circumscribe, and well defined by a boundary of lymph ; the swelling IS at first much harder, stands out more ui relief, and appears more considerable than in erysipelas ; suppuration takes place in the middle which points conically where the skin becomes' thin and fluctuates. The colour is lighter, more vivid, does not disappear on pressure, as in ery- sipelas; the pain is of the acute throbbing kind. Ihere is not the tendency to the formation of vesi- cations. Inflammation and suppuration under a fascia will, of course, neither possess the redness and oedema of erysipelas, nor the poi7iting of phlegmon. Erysipelatous or diffuse inflammation ofiJie are- olar tissue ; siihcutaiieous erysipelas of Nunneley ; celhdar erysipelas, or diffuse abscess, may be defined a fever, accompanied with diffuse inflammation of the areolar tissue. It is almost the same as phlegmonous erysipelas without the inflammation of the surface of the skin ; and in most of the cases recorded, it shows a greater alliance to intense pya3inia than even phlegmonous erysipelas usually does ; inasmuch as it is more frequently attended with suppurations at various parts of the body ■ and inasmuch as death more frequently occurs from' blood-poisoning, or from visceral disease, than is the case in cutaneous erysipelas. Substitute a poisoned wound for the act of parturition, in an unhealthy atmosphere, and this disease is the ho- mologue of puerperal fever. It has attracted considerable notice from the fact that it is frequently produced by wounds received in dissection, and that many members of our pro- fession have fallen victims to it. Amongst the earliest and best descriptions of it, are those of Dr. Duncan, Edinburgh Med. Chir. Trans., vol. i. ; Dr. CoUes, DMin Hospital Reports, vol. iii. 1822 '; James, of Exeter, On Inflammation, ^-c. ; Dr.' Copland, author of the immortal Medical Diction- ary ; Mr. Travers, Enquiry on Constitutional Irri- tation; Mr. Adam, Glasgow Med. Journal, 1830; and Mr. Stafi'ord, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xx. 1836. But above all these there is the admirable mono- graph on Irritative Fever, or the Plymouth Dock- yard Disease, 1825, by Dr. John Butter, of Ply- mouth, which well deserves to be read, not merely for its accuracy as a relation of facts, and its sound therapeutical doctrine, but because the epidemic which it records is so extraordinary and so complete an illustration of the alliance of erysipelas, difi'use inflammation, and pya;mia. The following abstract of the Pl3'mouth disease will be important to the end of time. Case 1. On August 1st, 1824, a shipwright laid up by a punctured wound in the sole of the foot ; on the 7 th considerable fever came on, and inflammation extended up the leg ; headache, nau- sea, and thirst. 9th. AV'hole limb enlarged and erysipelatous. 12th. Extending up thigh. 14th. To the abdomen. 15th Death. No post-mortem. Treat- ment. Bleeding to syncope twice ; repeated purges. Case 2. On 4th August, 1824, a carpenter wounded right hand by a saw. 6th. Considerable fever; hand inflamed. 10th. Whole arm erysipela- tous ; .abscess opened on back of hand, which on 12th freely discharged pus and sloughs. 13th and 15th. Incisions made in forearm nnJarm; inipro- e- meiit to the 26th, when hand and forearm nearly