HEAD, INJUJ IIES OF THE. C8r adhering firmly to the bone, will separate from it, all round, to some distance from the edges. " This alteration in the face and circumstances of the sore is produced merely by the diseased state of the parts underneath the skull ; which is a circumstance of great importance, in support of the doctrine advanced, and is demonstrably proved by observing that this diseased aspect of the sore, and this spontaneous separation of the pericranium, are always confined to that part which covers the altered or injured portion of the dura mater, and do not at all affect the rest of the scalp : nay, if it has by accident been wounded in any other part, or a portion has been removed from any part where no injury has been done to the dura mater, no such separation will happen. " The first appearance of alteration in the wound immediately succeeds the febrile attack; and as the febrile symptoms increase, the wound becomes w^orse and worse ; that is, degenerates more and more from a healthy, kindly aspect." {Pott.) The same intelligent surgeon further observes " that it is no very uncommon thing for a smart blow on the head to produce some immediate bad symptoms, which after a short space of time dis- appear, and leave the patient perfectly well. A slight pain in the head, a little acceleration of pulse, a vertigo and sickness, sometimes immedi- ately follow siich accident, but do not continue many hours, especially if any evacuation has been used. These are not improbably owing to a light commotion of the brain, which, having suffered no material injury thereby, soon cease. But if, after an interval of some time, the same symptoms are renewed ; if the patient, having been well, becomes again feverish and restless, and that without any new cause ; if he complains of being languid and uneasy, sleeps disturbedly, loses his appetite, has a hot skin, a hard quick pulse, and a flushed, heated countenance; and neither irregularity of diet nor accidental cold have been productive of these ; mischief is most certainly impending, and that most probably under the skull. " If the symptoms of pressure, such as stupidity, loss of sense, voluntary motion, &c., appear some few days after the head has suffered injury from ex- ternal mischief, they do most probably imply an effusion of a fluid somewhere ; this effusion may be in the substance of the brain, in its ventricles, be- tween its membranes, or on the surface of the dura mater ; and which of these is the real situation of such extravasation is a matter of great uncertainty, none of them being attended with any peculiar mark or sign that can be depended upon, as point- ing it out precisely ; but the inflammation of the dura mater, and the formation of matter be- tween it and the skull, in consequence of contu- sion, is generally indicated and preceded by one which Mr. Pott has hardly ever known to fail ; a puffHt circumscribed, indolent tumor of the scalp, awl a spfmlancous separation of llie pericranium from the skull under such lumnry Sometimes the scalp is so wounded at the time of the accident, or so torn away, as to leave the bone perfectly bare ; and yet no suppuration on theduia mater may ensue. Hence, if the pericranium be only turned back, along with the detached portion of scalp, there may be probability of its rc-union ;and it should be immediately made clean and replaced, for the purpose of such experiment ; which, if it succeeds, will save time, and prevent considerable deformity. Should the attempt fail, it can only be in consequence of the detached part sloughing. Flence, removing it with a knife, though allowed by Pott, is now never practised. Frequently, when the scalp does not adhere at once, it becomes at- tached to the cranium afterwards by a granulating process. Wiien the detached piece sloughs, the worst that can happen is an exfoliation from the bare skull. Sometimes the force, which detaches or removes the scalp, also occasions the mischief in question; but the integuments being wounded or removed, we cannot have the criterion of the tumor of the scalp for the direction of our judgment. Our whole attention must be directed to the wound and to the general symptoms. The edges of the former will digest as well,and look as kindly for a few daj's, as if no mischief was done underneath. But after some little space of time, when the patient begins to be restless, and hot, and to complain of pain in the head, these edges will lose their vermilion hue, and become pale and flabby. Instead of matter, they will discharge a thin gleet, and the pericranium will loosen from the skull to some distance from the said edges. Immediately after this, all the ge- neral symptoms are increased and exasperated ; and as the inflammation of the membrane is height- ened or extended, they become daily worse and worse, until a quantity of matter is formed and col- lected, and brings on that fatal period,which, though uncertain as to date, very seldom fails to arrive. The method of attempting the relief of this kind of injury consists in two points : viz. to endeavour to prevent the inflammation of the dura mater ; or, that being neglected, or found impracticable, to give discharge to the fluid collected ivithin the cra- nium, in consequence of such inflammation. Acceleration or hardness of pulse, restlessness, anxiety, and any degree of fever, after a smart blow on the head, are always to be suspected and attend- ed to. Immediate, plentiful, and repeated evacu- ations by bleeding have, in many instances, re- moved these, in persons to whom, Mr. Pott firmly believes, terrible mischief woidd have happened had not such precaution been used. In this, as well as some other parts of practice, we neither have, nor can have, any other method of judging than by comparing together cases apparently simi- lar. Mr. Pott had more than once or twice seen that increased velocity and hardness of pulse, aiul that oppressive languor which most frequentlv precede mischief under the bone, removed by free and repeated bloodletting ; and had often, much too often, seen cases end fatally, whose beginnings were fully as slight, but in wiiich such evacuation had been either neglected, or not complied with. This judicious writer " would by no means be thought to infer from hence, that early bleeding will always prove a certain preservative ; and that they only die to whom it has not been applied : this, like all othrr human means, is fiillible- and" perhaps, there are more cases out of its reach thai'i witliin it : but where preventive means can take place, this is certainly the best, and the most fre- quently successful. " The second intention, viz. the discharge of mai- ler collected under the cranium, can be answered only by the perforation of it. " When, from tiie symptoms and appearances already described, there is just reason for supposing matter to be formed under the skull, the operation 3 L