110 wound in the skin, it is very similar in its symptoms and consequences to a rupture of the bladder, with the additional complication of a fractured bono in its immediate vicinity. Such cases have been alluded to in speaking of rupture of the bladder.] Bladdeh, Hernia of. See Hernia. LProlapsus op the Bladder.] [Prolapsus of the bladder is a displacement which is occasionally met within females. In this affection, in consequence of a relaxed condition of the vagina and vulva, the bladder gradually descends, pushing the anterior wall of the vagina before it, until at length it forms a tumor, which projects between the labia, and in extreme cases, even hangs pendu- lous between the thighs. The protrusion, there- fore, consists of the bladder, covered and sur- rounded by the anterior wall of the vagina, and hence the name vaginal cysioceie has been applied to it. Prolapsus of the bladder is not a very common affection. It most frequently occurs after repeated or difficult parturition ; rupture of the perineum, by removing a portion of the support which the pelvic viscera should receive, especially predisposes to it ; occasionally, but more rarely, it happens in women who have not borne children. The swelling is soft and fluctuating; its size is variable, according as the bladder is or is not distended with urine. The transverse rugas of the vagina are usually dis- tinguished upon it, although they may be effaced if U is much distended. At its upper part is the orifice of the urethra, directed doivmcards and back- wurds; and when a catheter is passed into the bladder, it can be moved about in the interior of the swelling, at any part of which the point of the instrument may be made to project. If the finger is passed into the vagina beneath the protrusion, the uterus will be felt above and behind it, nearly in its natural situation, but with the os uteri di- rected backwards, in consequence of its anterior lip being drawn down by the stretching of the ante- rior wall of the vagina. This, together with the softness of the swelling, its diminution after mictu- rition, and the absence of any appearance of os uteri upon it, readily distinguishes it from prolapsus of the uterus. It may be distinguished from prolapse of the posterior wall of the vagina with dilatation of the rectum {caginal reclocele), by oljserving that in the latter ca.se the vaginal passage is in front of the swelling, while in prolapse of the bladder, it is behmd It. (See ./. D. Brown, On Diseases of Wo- men, Lond. 185 i, p. 71.) The sensation of bearing down is less than in prolapse of the womb, but it is in some women greatest m the horizontal posture ; in the night, therefore, the patient is much annoyed with this sensation, which is frequently accompanied by a most distressing desire to make water. (See South, in Trunsl. of Clielius, vol. ii. p. 124.) A pe- culiar symptom of prolapse of the bladder is a pain referred to the lu-ivcl, with a sense of tight- ness there ; tlie pain being greatest when the bladder contams the largest quantity of urine, diminishing as the urine is voided, and ceasing when the bladder is nearly orciitircly emptied. This symptom is rcrei red by Sir C. Clarke to a stretching of the umbilical ligaments or remains of the um- bilicnl arteries, and to the consequent dragging upon BLADDER. gjg the navel itself. (See Sir C. Clarke, On Bis. of Females, part i. p. 1 30, and South, loc, cit.) The urme is voided with difficult}-, and the bladder is seldom completely emptied ; hence de- composition of the urine takes place, the mucous lining of the bladder is irritated, and chronic in- flammation of this membrane is added to the other annoyances and sufferings of the patient. Treatment.—The ordinary treatment of this dis- tressing condition consists in the use of astrin- gent injections to improve the tone and remedy the relaxed condition of the vagina, and of pes- saries to prevent the protrusion taking place. In addition to this, it is important to prevent any accumulation of urine in the bladder, by the fre- quent use of the catheter if the patient's un- aided efforts are insufficient; or by confining her to her bed, in the prone position as much as possible, and retaining the catheter in the bladder. These means, employed judiciously, and for a sufficient length of time, combined with a careful attention to the general state of the patient's health, may sometimes effect a cure, but more frequently they are merely palliative. Of late years attempts have been made to ob- tain more certain and permanent relief by opera- tive procedure. The operations practised have had in view, either the narrowing of the relaxed vagina, to prevent the bladder fl-om being displaced • or the diminution of the vulvar aperture, to prevent Its protruding externally. Most of these proceed- ings have been devised for the relief of prolapsus of the uterus, but they are nearly equally applicable to ■ "°" """^ '^n'^er consideration. Mr. South m ItiiiS, endeavoured to cure a prolapsus of the bladder on the principle first mentioned, by remov- ing portions of the mucous membrane of the anterior wall 0 the vagina covering the tumor, and bringing the cut edges together with sutures. He first re- moved a transversely elliptical piece of membrane, an inch and a ha f broad, and about an inch in depth at Its central and broadest part. Three nla tmum sutures were employed to bring the edges together. This operation proving ineffectual, Mr bouth about six months afterwards, removed a second elliptical piece of membrane, but with its long diameter in the vertical direction, commenc- ing about half an inch below the neck of the womb and terminating about the same distance behind the ui-e thra. The piece of membrane removed was about an inch in width at its broadest part. Three su tures were used. This second operation materially checked the protrusion, mid, although it did not prevent it altogether, it enabled her to undergo exertion which for some years previously she had been incapable of making. A full account of this rolM.' Tmf) ^^"^ On the principle of preventing the escape of the prolapsed bladder externally, Mr. Liglufoot, of Newcastle-on-ryne, performed in 1841 the on^r i- tion suggested by Fricke, of Hamburgh, fofthe cure of prolapsus uteri. I„ this opem ion, t o edges of the labia are pared from the fourclie te o about two fingers' breadth from the anterior om- niissurcand the raw surfaces brought together and kept in contact by quill sutures. When union has taken place, a prolongation forwards of the peri- "ejim, mid a corresponding diminution of the va-n- na outlet, are the result. In Mr. Liglitfool's ca^c, three weeks after the operation, there was not tlie