433 CATARACT. dividing the anterior \a.yeT of the capsule. In the third stage, the expulsion of the cataract from the eye is etYected either by the well-regulated action of the eyebail itself, or by the assistance of art. [Various knives have been designed for the opera- tion of extraction : Wenzel's knife has mucli resem- blance to the ordinary bleeding bncet; Beer's knife had the form of a hay-knife ; Scott and Dalryraple used a peculiar sickle-shaped knife cut- ting on the convex edge. But the form now gene- rally preferred is a modification of Boer's knife; the cutting edge being placed at an angle of about 15" with the back, which is straight. The point is double edged for the space of a line, the blade is slightly convex on both sides, and in order that it should exactly fill np the wound it ought to in- crease gradually in thickness from point to lieel: the temper should be perfect, the point firm and very sharp, and the edge extremelj' keen. With modifications according to particular fancy, this is the knife generally used on the Continent as well as in England. It was formerly the custom to prepare patients for the operation by rigorous abstinence for a week or a fortnight, with purgatives every other day ; and not unfreqiiently venesection was added. Such severe measures are generally abandoned in this country ; the patient should be brouglit as near the standard of health as possible, the diet should be light for a day or two before the opera- tion, and an aperient may be given the day prior to its performance. As many of the subjects for extraction are old and feeble, it may be proper to feed them well and give tonics instead of lowering them, otherwise the section will not heal kindly. A difference of opinion exists as to tlie dilata- tion of the pupil previous to the performance of ex- traction. In truth it matters little whether it be dilated or not, as it generally contracts the moment the aqueous humour escapes. In the former editions of this work, the descrip- tion of the operation of extraction was culled from various sources now somewhat obsolete. It is considered bettor to substitute for them a concise account founded on the clear directions given by the late Frederick Tyrrell, whose skill in the per- formance of the operation and subsequent success could not be surpassed. Supposing that one eye is to be subjected to operation, a light bandage is to be tied over the other eye, and the patient is to be placed on a couch near a window in such a position that the light shall fall obliquely upon the cornea, so that no dazzling from reflection may arise in any movement of the eye. If the right eye be submitted to operation, and the upper section of the cornea practised, the surgeon should be seated at the head of the patient, at a convenient height ; and taking his knife in the right hand he ought to hold it as a pen or pen- cil. He should then raise and fix the superior lid with the fingers of the left hand in the I'cillowing manner :—The point of the forefinger should bo ap- plied to the centre of the margin of the lid below the cilia, so as to touch the surface of the globe ; the lid should then be pressed upwards towards the eyebrow, the point of the finger still resting on tlie globe ; then the extremity of the middle finger should be applied upon the globe near to the inner canthus. At the same time the assistant is to de- press the lower lid by stress on the integument with- out pressing on the globe. The operator now, rest- ing his liand upon the temple of the patient, should, gently place the blade of the knife flat upon tlie cornea, and ascertain if he can carry the point of the instrument to the nose without shifting his hand. He may now, having thus lightly touched the cornea, ask the patient some question requiring thought, and thus the eye generally unconsciously assumes the proper position. When it has done so, the point of the knife is to puncture the cornea near the mesial line, close to its jimction with the sclerotic, the edge being directed upwards or downwards, according as the upper or lower section is intended. The blade is to be then steadily, not too hurriedly, pushed across the anterior chamber, until it again penetrates the cornea, opposite to the point at which it entered ; and then slowly carried on, pausing from time time, until the flap of the cornea has been completed. As soon as the knife has penetrated the inner margin of the cornea the globe can be commanded with it ; pressure from the fingers is therefore no longer necessary, but if continued might lead to escape of the hu- mours. The points of the fingers should therefore be removed from the eye as soon as the knife has pierced the inner side of the cornea. The section must be made by the onward progress of the knife ; the least retraction infallibly leads to escape of the aqueous humour, and the falling of the iris before the edge of the knife. It is very important to allow all spasm of the muscles of the eye to subside before dividing the last few fibres of the cornea, otherwise the lens will leap out with a gush of vitreous humour to an extent which may peril the safety of the eye, and the lid should be allowed to drop the instant the section is completed. The extent of the section should be nearly one half of the circumference of the cornea. The patient should be permitted to rest a few moments after the section of the cornea has been made, to allow the irritability of the eye to sub- side. The next step in the operation is to lacerate the anterior capsule, which is effected with the sharp extremity of the curette. The superior lid is again to be raised, but merely by the integument, which is to be pressed against the eyebrow. The curette is to be held as the knife, and as soon as the section is exposed, the sharp extremity of the instrument is to be passed beneath the flap of the cornea, taking care that the point does not become entangled in the iris. When it has reached the pupil, the point should be brought to bear on the capsule of the cataract, which is to be freely lace- rated by repeated light scratches of the instrument, the lens being disturbed as little as possible. The instrument is then to be cautiously withdrawn. The surgeon should now place the concavity of the scoop of the curette against the eye, a little below the margin of tho cornea, and whilst firm but not violent pressure is made with it, counter-pressure should be made with the finger on the upper part of the globe. The lens will now be seen to turn, to quit its capsule, and gradually to pass throuo-h tho pupil, and then through the wound in the cornea. As soon as tho large diameter of the lena has passed the pupil, tho pressure siiould be re- moved, or the hyaloid membrane may be ruptured. The lens is to be removed with the curette, and tho lid allowed to fall. After a few moments' pause, gentle friction with the point of the linger may be