BERNIA. operation was required. (See TS-ans. of Provincial Assoc. vol. V.) From these two circumstances of situation and contents are derived most of the different appella- tions by which hernise are distinguished. If a portion of intestine alone form the contents of the tumor, the case is called enicrocek; if a piece of omentum only, epiplocele; and if both intestine and omentum con- tribute to the formation of the tumor, it is called an entero-epiplocele. When the contents of a hernia protrude at the external abdominal ring, the case receives the name of inguinal liernia, of which there are two varieties called oblique and direct. If the pro- trusion only passes as low as the groin, it is called a bubonocele; but, if the parts descend into the scrotum, it is called an oscheocele or scrotal hernia; if into the labium, it is called a labial hernia. The term bubonocle, however, has been frequently used to signify an incomplete oblique inguinal her- nia, that is to say, one which is still in the inguinal canal, and has not yet protruded through the ex- ternal abdominal ring. Other varieties of oblique inguinal hernia are the congenital, and the encysted, the nature of which will be explained in. a subse- quent part of this article. The crural or femoral hernia is the name given to that which takes place below Poupart's ligament. When the bowels pro- trude at the navel, the case is named an exomphalos or jimbilical hernia. There are also obturator, ischiatic, vaginal, perinseal, and diaphragmatic her- nia^; and ventrcdis the epithet given to the swell- ing when it occurs at any other promiscuous part of the wall of the abdomen. When the protruded bowels lie quietly in the sac, and admit of being readily put back into the abdomen, the case is termed a reducible hernia; and when they suffer no constriction, yet cannot be put back, owing to adhesions, or their large size in re- lation to the aperture through which they have to pass, the hernia is termed irreducible. An incar- cerated or a strangulated hernia signifies one which not only cannot be easily reduced, or cannot be re- duced without an operation, but suffers constriction, so that, if a piece of intestine be protruded, the pressure to which it is subjected stops the passage of its contents towards the anus, or even interrupts the circulation of the blood in the protruded part, excites inflammation of the bowel, or causes its death, and brings on a train of alarming, and often fatal, consequences. The causes of hernias are either predisposing or exciting. Amongst the former, writers mention a preternaturally large size of the openings, at which the bowels are liable to protrude"; a weak- ness and relaxation of the margins of these aper- tures ; extraordinary laxity of the peritoneum ; an unusually long mesentery or omentum, &c. With regard to the abdominal ring, the transverse ten- dinous fibres {inter-columnarfibres) which natu- rally cross and strengthen its upper and outer part, are much weaker in some subjects than others. Some of the alleged predisposing causes may justly excite scepticism ; but several circum- stances prove that a natural deficiency of resistance in any part of tlie parietns of the abdomen, pro- motes the occurrence of hernia. Hence, persons who have luid the peritoneum wounded, are very liable to the present disease. Men arc much more liable than women to inguinal hernia, evidently from the larger size of the inguinal canal ; while in women, as tliere is a larger space foi' the protrusion of tho viscera below Poupart's ligament, they are more exposed than men to femoral hernia. The dis- tension of the abdomen in pregnancy also gives a disposition to crural and umbilical hernia. With regard to the exciting causes, our know- ledge is involved in less doubt. The grand cause of this kind is the powerful action of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm on the viscera. In feats of agility, such as jumping, &c. the pressure which the contents of the abdomen must often encounter, sufficiently accounts for their protruding at any part where the abdominal parietes do not make adequate resistance. The same consideration ex- plains why herniee very often take place in lifting and carrying heavy weights, running, vomiting, straining at stool, parturition, coughing, sneezing, &c. and in people who inhabit mountainous coun- tries. In individuals who have long laboured under bad strictures, the habitual efforts of the abdominal muscles to make the urine pass, often bring on the formation of hernia. In Sir A. Cooper's splendid work is the representation of a case of this kind, in which several herniae were produced. The diminution of the capacity of the abdomen, by the action of the abdominal muscles and dia- phragm, in many occasional exertions, must take place in everybody, by reason of the common habits and necessities of life. But, as only a certain number of persons meet with the disease, it is fair to infer that either the exciting causes must operate with greater force in them than in the generality of people, or else that their abdo- minal parietes have not Ijeen capable of the ordi- nary degree of resistance. Man}"- patients, who meet with hernite in making violent efforts and ex- ertions, may be in the former circumstance ; while others, whose viscera protrude from such trivial things as coughing, sneezing, crying, &c. must be considered as being under the influence of some predisposing cause. " Hernite which originate in predisposition generally come on gradually, and almost imperceptibly; while those which are pro- duced by bodily exertions are formed suddenlj-, and by the immediate action of the exciting cause. The occnrrence of the complaint (in inguinal her- nia) is often indicated in the first instance by a fulness, combined with a sense of weakness, about the abdominal ring. The swelling is in- creased by any action of the respiratory nniscles, and disappears on pressure, and in the recun-.bout position of the bodj'. It gradually finds its way through the tendon of the external oblique muscle into the groin, and afterwards into the scrotum. When a hernia takes place suddenly, it is gene- rally attended with a sensation of something giving way at the part, and with pain." (iaif- rence on Ruptures, p. 42, cd. 4.) Upon the subject of the immediate cause of hernifc, it is observed by Scarpa that several dis- tinguished surgeons, as, for instance, Warton {Adcnograph. cap. 11), Benevoli (Disscrtazioiii Chir. 1), llossius (Ada Nat. Cur. t ii. obs. IJli). Brendel {Dc Herniarum Naialibus), and Morgngm {DoScd.ct Cans. Mori), epist. 43, art. 13), con- sider a relaxation and elongation of the mesentery as the principal cause of lierniic in general, and of inguinal hernia in particular. Hence, say they, the Avhole mass of intestines, or only a portion ot an intestine, descends against the inner orifice of tho inguinal ring, presses against this opening, and gradually makes its way out of the abdomen. In