334 BLOOD, PATHOLOGY OF. TJie earthy sails never accumulate to any ex- tent, although there is sometimes a deficiency owing to inadequate supply or defective assimi- lation. Thus, dm-ing pregnancy, the appropria- tion of these materials in the, growth of the foetus, often reduces them to a luiUity in the urine, and fractures recurring at this time may remain un- united. In rachitis the same thing probablj'happens, and softening of the bones may be induced by a de- ficiency of calcareous salts or their elements derived from the food. Most diseases of the bones indi- cate a deficiency of bone earth, but whether from defective supply, or defective organisation, is not certain. The exiractivo mailers of the blood are an in- definite group of substances ahva3fs present, and probably containing many compounds undergoing progressive and retrograde changes, particularly the products of the metamorphosis of azotised tissues, as uric-oxide, urea, cystine, creatine, and the like. They have been observed in excess in some diseases, as puerperal fever and scurvy, and have been suggested as the causes of skin diseases and other affections, but there can be no practical application of generalisations of this kind, owing to the heterogeneous character of the mass. The effect of the accumulation of particular substances, as urea, which in the healthy state is removed by the kidneys as rapidly as it is formed, will be treated of under another head. Not only variations in the proportions, but diffe- rences in the physical and vital qualities, and chemi- cal combinations of the constituents of tlie blood, in- dicate diseases both of the blood itself and of tlie animal economy generally. This has been inci- dentally stated of tlie albumen and fibrin. Specific gravity of the mass of blood does not aid the patho- logist much, since an increased proportion of one constituent, as of the corpuscles, is often coincident with a diminished proportion of other constituents, as of the fibrin or albumen. The colour of the blood as it flows in superficial parts is much more significant, A preternaturally dark blue colour, for instance, indicating that the relations between the blood and air are imperfectly maintained in the lungs (see Asphyxia) ; great pallidity, corre- sponding with a deficiency in quantity, or great poverty of blood (see Anemia, Hydr^tsmia) ; an extremelj'' florid state, marking increased circula- tion and rich blo»d (see Hypeuinosis, Ple- thora). The various hues of the liquor san- guinis contributing to the colour of the tunica adnatn, lips, gums, and external surface, are also typical of morbid states of blood ; as from the yellow colouring matter of bile (Chol/emia) ; the greenish, livid, blackish, or dirty colour of the skin in cachetic diseases ; the icteroid, pale lilac, saturnine, and other hues, in many diseases to wliich females are liable ; the peculiar bright pink tint on a pallid basis, in consumption. They indi- cate particular morbid conditions, aiding the sur- geon in forming his indications for the treatment of surgical diseases. (See Chlokosis, Cancku, TuBKHcuj.osis, Toxk.oh-bmia.) The Icmpcrct- ture ai the blood is liable to frequent variations within a limited scale, and to great variations occa- sionally. It has been observed as high as 110° Fah. in fever, and as low as f)C° in cholera. Tlie odour of the blood, and the escape of odoriferous pnnclples into its halitus, constitute another class of symptoms ; hence acid, ammonincal, putrid, earthy, cadaverous, and many other odours of a specific character, in various cachexias, diatheses, and diseases ; as in gout, rheumatism, eruptive and other fevers, malignant and gangrenous aflfec- tions, tuberculosis and insanitj'. Changes in the degree of viscidity is another circumstance of tlu^ utinost importance. Tiie experiments of Pois- seuille show that u certain degree of viscidity is favourable to the motion of liquids through capil- lary tubes, and any material alteration in the pro- portions of the constituents of the blood, modifying the natural viscidity, conduces to obstruction in the capillary vessels and eflfusion of fluid through their parietes. (See IlYDRa;MiA, HvPEniNOsis.) That the physical and vital endowments of the corpuscles undergo modifications is shown bj' their specific gravity being liable to changes. (C. Schmidt.) It was observed to range from 1-1025 to M027 in cholera ; and was 1-085 in dysentery; 1-0845 in albuminuria; and 1-0855 in dropsies. {Lchmann, p. 176.) They are ren- dered brighter, diminished in size, and their out- line and central mark become more distinct b)' superoxydation. They are paler or darker in pro- portion to the quantity of colouring matter which they contain. They are acted upon by the degree of viscidity of the liquor sanguinis, or by foreign agents, including medicines or poisons, introduced into the blood, and may be expanded or con- tracted, flattened, jagged, starred, indented, dis- torted, or granulated ; these changes modifying the colour of the blood, and being often produced by concentration or dilution of the liquor sanguinis, and by modifications in the exosmose and endos- mose of the parietes of the corpuscle. When the water of the blood is much diminished, as in cho- lera, or during excessive perspiration, they are diminished in size andgranidated; becoming larger and smoother when the liquor sanguinis is diluted. They have been observed to be completely de- stroyed in some fatal diseases, as pysemia and malignant scarlatina. (Williams's Principles of Medicine.) As the coagulation of the blood is one of its most remarkable physiological phenomena, so tlio coagulation of human blood with a bufty or co- lourless coat on the surface of the clot, is one of the most remarkable of its pathological phenomena, which has induced surgeons to pay great attention to this process. Deviations from the usual mode of coagulating are verj' frequently indicative of disease, both of the solids and fluids. The process may be hastened, retarded, or prevented, by nu- merous causes. The contraction of the clot, after coagulation, may also be more or less firm, or rapid, or may be prevented by various circumstances ; many of which are pointed out in works on physi- olog}'-, and must be bnrne in mind when estimating the condition of tlic blood in surgical diseases. A bufty coat, as a symptom of disease, may be produced by any circumstiuice whicli, retarding coagulation, allows of the subsidence of the red corpuscles before fibrillation takes place. Observa- tion has shown that, whenever the vital actions are increased, whether the fibrin be the product of the active metamorphosis or a mere solution of materials received into the blood, its quantity is increased, and co.igulation retarded, the red cor- puscles are then li.ible to sink in the liquor san- guinis before the clot is formed, and, although the subsequent contraction of the clot may be extremely