Vessie paries Sondes fixAs, RevueM^d. Nov. 1822. Langenbech, IHbl. fiir die Chir. b. i. }). 17". 12mo. GOtt. 1806. Desault, CEuvres Chir. t. m. Amussat, Archives G^n. de UkA. t. iv. Berton, Op. cjt. Mai, 1826. Alf. A. L. M. Velpeau, Noxiv. Eldra. de Mia. Oper. t. iii. p. 905. 8vo. Paris, 1832. QhuwV Elem. of Anatomy, p. 454. 8vo. Loiul. 1834. Sir Benjamin Bi-odie, On Dis. of the Urinary Organs, cd. 2. 8vo. Lond. 1835. J. F. Malgaignc, Manuel de Med. Opfir. p. 654. 12mo. Paris, 1834. [Brigf/s, On the Treatment of Strictures of the Urethra, 1845. Toimsend s tliira American edition of Velpeau's Chirurgie Optra- toire, with notes by Valentine Mott, 1851. Thomp- son's Pathology and Treatment of Strictm-e, 18o8.] CATLIN is a long, narrow, double-edged, sharp-pointed, straight knife, whicli is chiefly used in amputations of the leg and forearm, for dividing the interosseous ligaments, and the muscles, &c. situated between the two bones. CAUSTICS [ (from Kuiw, to burn), are sub- stances which corrode, penetrate, and destroy the organic textures with which they are brought in contact, giving rise to the formation of an eschar, which is eventually separated from the living parts. As a general rule, they cannot act eiBcient- ly without the presence of moisture, either derived from the animal tissues, or supplied from without. The caustics which are chiefly employed are:— the mineral acids, as the nitric, muriatic, sul- phuric, chromic, and arsenious ; certain alkaline hydrates, as the hydrate of potash, of soda, quick lime ; various metallic salts, as nitrate of silver, chloride of zinc, sulphate of zinc, chloride of antimony, sulphate of copper, bichloride of mer curv. K'ilrie acid is a powerful corrosive, rapidly ox- idising the animal tissues, and producing a yellow- ish white eschar. It is used advantageously for the removal of nrevus, when the integument is thin and the growth presents a deep purple colour, or where the nsevus is flat, or is situate behind the ear, and wliere it is difficult to employ the ligature or needles. It is also resorted to for getting rid of warty growths, of vascular haemor rhoidal tumors, and of cutaneous syphilitic tuber cles. In phageda:nic ulceration, it constitutes a most valuable application, arresting _ the_ septic process, and inducing a healthy action in the adjunct parts. Hydrocldoric acid occasions a hard white eschar. It has been found serviceable in diphtheria, and in foul ulcers of the fauces. Mr. Duffin informs me, tliat he has succeeded in curing, by its means, cases of obstinate ulceration of the neck of the womb. Sulphuric acid is an energetic caustic; its energy may be partly ascribed to its intense affinity for water. It seems to determine a veritable charring of the part, the resulting eschar being of a dirty brownish black. Brought to the consistence of paste by the addition of powdered wood-charcoal, it is recommended by M. Ricord to be applied freely to virulent chancre within the first four days of its development. It destroys the morbid character of the ulcerous spot, and the resulting eschar drops off in "a few days, leaving a healthy sore, which readily heals by suitable treatment. M. Velpeau extols the use of a paste, made by trituration of sulphuric acid with saffron in a mortar, in cases of ulcerated and fungous tumor of tlin mamma. A layer of variable thickness, according to the amount of tissue to be destroyed, is to be spread on the part, and tJie caustic allowed to remain until it has dried into a black CAUSTICS. 449 or brown hard eschar. Tlie whole must be ex- posed to the air for at least four or five hours; in this way an incredible diminution of the tumor . is produced. M. Velpeau has seen fungous en- cephaloid cancers larger and thicker than the fist completely subside by this means, and become reduced to the level of the surroimding parts in the space of twenty-four hours. This caustic seems to prevent htemorrhage — a notable ad- vantage in dealing with morbid vascular struc- tures. Chromic acid is a powerful oxidising agent, yielding half its oxygen readily to organic sub- stances, and being reduced to sesquioxide. On this principle I was led to employ it as an escha- rotic, and first directed attention to it in a notice, published several years ago, in the 35th volume of the Medical Gazelle. It is convenient for appli- cation, inasmuch as it consists of a thick crystalline pap, which, when rightly managed, does not spread beyond the prescribed limits, and so soon as its erosive operation is finished, passes into the state of inert pulverulent sesquioxide above mentioned. Mr. Marshall considers it as an escharotic superior to any other in use for removing warts of the genital organs, whether venereal or otherwise. The solu- tion for this purpose is made by dissolving 100 grains in an ounce of water. Arsenious acid has long been extolled as an efficient escharotic in the treatment of cancer. It determines a powerful vascular reaction, rapidly destroying the parts with which it is in contact, and causing a severe and abiding sensation of pain, which does not abate until the flesh has become dead and arid like that of a mummy. It seems to exercise a favourable alterative influence on the adjacent tissues, and thus insures a greater immunity from a relapse of the local malady, than most other medicinal agents of the class. If properly used, there will remain, after the separa- tion of the eschar, a healthy sore, which will heal kindly with a firm and sound cicatrix. As the topical employment of arsenious acid is not exempt from risk of danger through absorption, great caution must be observed in its application ; accord- ing to Christison, (^Dispensatory, p. 185,) absorption seems less likely to occur when a strong arsenical mixture is used, containing one-tenth or even one- fourth of its weight of arsenious acid, than when the weaker mixtures are applied, which are had recourse to generally on the Continent. A conve- nient mode of applying it is to form_ it into an ointment with lard, or into a paste with conserve of roses, thickened, if necessary, with powder of gum, and to add some powder of opium to allay the pain. M. Manec has introduced a formula, which is a modification of that of Frere Come, and which I have employed successfully in a case of noli me langere, occurring on the side of the nose of an elderly man. Its composition is as follows: arsenious acid, 1'5 parts, cinnabar 7'5, burnt sponge, 3'7-5. This is to bo formed into a homogeneous paste with a few drops of water ; a layer of this, one-twelfth of an inch in thickness, is to be placed on tlie diseased surface, and the whole covered over with a piece of moist amadou. M. Manec gives the judicious precept not to apply the remedy over a surface exceeding in size a two franc piece. The application may bo repeated, if necessary, in a fortnight. Taking into account the poisonous nature of the O O