seen " by the situation of the trochanteral portion of the neck, when examined in diilerent parts ot its circumference." (See Ameshury, On Fractures, cj-c. p. 43, &c.) . Tiiese, and other cases and dissectionB,_ sulti- ciently establish the possibility of bony union in fractures entirely witliin the capsular ligament. But this is not the ordinary mode of union; and no doubt is now entertained about many prepar- ations, exhibited as specimens of it, not being good and authentic ones. The rapidity with which absorption proceeds in the head and neck of the thigh-bone after fractures, brings about such changes as must soon greatly obscure _ the exact original situation and direction of the injury, and particularly the question, whether the injury reached also to the outside of the capsular liga- ment. That fractures extending beyond the capsular ligament may be united by bone, is admitted by all parties, as well as the fact that those entirely within the capsule are often united with the intervention of fibrous or ligamentous bands. In confirmation of this circumstance, I have already cited the dissections performed by Dr. CoUes of Dublin ; and, in further proof of it, I refer to the preparations in the museum of the College of Surgeons at Edinburgh, as specified by Mr. B. Bell of that city. (0« Diseases of (he Bones, p. 205, &c. 1828.) [For an interesting account of several cases of real or supposed osseous union of intra-capsular fractures occurring in the practice of American surgeons, •with an impartial discussion of the merits of each example, see Treatise on Fractures and Dislocations, h<l Dr. F. H. Hamilton of Buffalo. Philadelphia. 18G0. , , . The union of fractures external to the capsule is usually attended with very abundant and irregular osseous deposits. These deposits encircle the neck of the femur to a variable extent, but are usually found in greatest quantity along the posterior inter-trochanteric line, though sometimes they are also deposited freely along the anterior line. Mr. K. W. Smith believes the object of their formation is the union of the fracture traversing the inter-tro- chanteric space, and he states that they are usually proportionate to the amount of injury which the trochanters have suffered. When the trochanter major is merely split or fissured, its fibrous cover- ings remaining entire, the quantity of new bone is exceedingly small ; while it is abundant when a large priiportion of the trochanters is broken off and displaced, in consequence of the laceration of the fibrous tissues which invest this region ; and it is especially exuberant when the trochanters are comminuted and the fragments displaced, b ith from the shaft and from each other. The cnnsiili- dation between the opposed surfaces of the impacted cervix and of the shaft, does not take place so readily or at so early a period as that of the fracture through the trocliantcr. Mr. Smitli states that he has frequently found the latter firmly united by bone, while the neck of the femur has, after maceration, become loose in the cavity which it had formed for itself between the trochanters. In these cases the bond of union is generally a cartilaginous and fibro-cartilaginous structure of extreme density and great strength, and which, along with the mechanical support resulting from the impaction, enables the patient to bear his weight upon the limb before the osseous FRACTURE. 743 union of the cervix with the shaft has been accom- plished. (Op. cit. p. 3C.) In those rare cases of intra-capsular fracture in which union by bone has taken place, it is highly probable, either that the fibrous covering of the neck has remained wholly or partially uninjured, or that the fragments have been impacted or inter- locked in the manner described by Mr. R. W. Smith. In either event the fractured surfaces are retained steadily in their position, and are never completely removed from contact with each other. These are precisely the cases, unfortunatel}-, in which the symptoms of the accident are most ob- scure, and in which the chance of union may be, and probably often is, destroyed or diminished by the too great eagerness on the part of the surgeon to obtain conclusive evidence of the existence of fracture. On the other hand, it is not impossible that union by bone may sometimes have taken place, when the patient has been kept quiet for some time after the accident, in cases where frac- ture was not suspected, but where the injury has been set down as merely a contusion. The diagnosis in these cases is often most diffi- cult, for when the muscles around the hip have suffered a violent contusion, the patient is often unable, by a voluntary effort, to raise the injured limb ; the inclination of the pelvis produces an apparent shortening, and the foot lies everted ; there is swelling around the joint, and every motion is attended with pain. Nor does the subse- quent progress of the case always tend to remove the uncertainty, for these cases of contusion of the hip are not unfrequently followed, especially in old people, at a period remote from the receipt of the injury, by a real shortening of the limb and eversion of the foot—circumstances well calculated to confirm the belief of a fracture of the neck of the femur having been the original injury; whereas these subsequent changes are the result of a slow and mild inflammatory action excited by the contusion in the cancellated tissue of the head and neck of the femur. {R. W. Smith, op. cit. p. 30, 31.) The appearances, occasioned by the alterations which the head and neck of the femur undergo in the disease described by Mr. R. Adams as chronic rheumatic arthritis, present many points of resem- blance to fracture of the neck of the femur, and if a patient suffering from this disease should meet with a contusion of the hip, a mistake is especially likely to occur. On the subject of chronic rheu- matic arthritis of the hip joint, see It. Adams, On Abnormal Conditions of the Hip .Joitil, Cyclop, of Anal, and Physiol, vol. ii. p. 789 ; and R. W. Smith, On Fractures, tj-c. p. 113; and Joints, Diseases op.] Having spoken of the nature of fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone within and without the capsular ligament, I come next to the consideration of iho proper practice to be adopted. In the first description of the injury, as osseous union is rare, ought we to endeavour to keep the frngments as nearly in a state of apposition as poshible, and sub- ject the patient to rest and confinement, with the view of promoting the other modes of union, so well pointed out in Dr. Colles's paper ? Or should we, as Sir A. Cooper does, avoid conlining the patient to any long or continued extension, " as being likely to be productive of ill health, without the probability of producing union ? " Yet, it appears both from this gentleman's own statements, and 3 u 4