forming the operation of litliotomy upon a male, found tlie stone, which was very brittle, one inch and a half long, and eight or nine lines thick, tra- versed, in the direction of its greater diameter by a piece of elastic gum catheter, which had acted as a nucleus for the deposition of calcareous matter. (See 04s. sur le Danger d'emplot/er des mauvaises Sondes de Gommo elastique; Journ. de Medicine, par Leroux, Oct. 181C.) A short time ago M. Roux was obliged to cut into the bladder to extract an elastic gum catheter, which in consequence of not having been properly secured, had slipped into that viscus. (See Velpeau, Nouv. Eltm, de Med. Oper. t. iii. p. 921.) Formerly, the best elastic catheters used to be fabricated at Paris ; but such as are now made in London are in some respects better than French, being generally more regular. Gum catheters are of twelve different sizes, which correspond to twelve holes in a plate of brass. " Each catheter, therefore (says Mr. Crosse), has its size designated by its number, which greatly facilitates the ascertaining of the progress of the case towards a cure. Num bers 1 and 2 are so small and slender that I thought there might be danger of their breaking, until I was convinced, by seeing the method of making them, that there is no reason for fearing any such thing. A firm tissue of silk is woven upon a brass stilet, of the size of the cavity of the instrument to be made, In weaving this tissue, the orifice or eye is left, and the whole therefore consists of one entire thread. The successive layers of varnish are de posited on the outer surface of the silken tissue, their number depending on the size of the in- strument ; and each coating of varnish undergoes a long process of scouring before the next is put on, for which purpose women are employed by Feburier." (See Sketches of tlie Medical Schools of Paris, by J. G. Crosse, 1815, pp. 122, 123.) According to this gentleman, however, English gum catheters possess advantages: — " They retain their curve better without the stilet, are less liable to crack, and have eyes more smooth and better formed." (P. 124.) When the object of passing a catheter is merely to empty thebladder, without any design of leaving the instrument afterwards in the urethra, Langen- beck prefers one made of silver. {Dibl. fur die Chir. b. i. p. 1176, Also Velpeau, Mid. Oper. t. iii p. 912.) In retention of urine from stricture, a surgeon will often succeed in introducing into the bladder a silver catheter, or an elastic gum catheter, mounted on a firm iron stilet. The catheter re commended on such an occasion by Sir Benjamin Brodie, if the stricture be of recent formation. ia nearly of the full size of the urethra j but, if th stricture has been of lony duration, the instrument should be considerably smaller. He also preferi one, which is shorter, and less curved, than ; ordinary silver catheter ; and which is fixed in wooden handle, whereby it is rendered more ma- nageable. {On Bis. of Urinary Organs, p. 34 ed. 2.) If an elastic gum catheter is used, 1 says, that the iron stilet should have a flat hand] like that of a common sound. (See UiiiNB, Re- tention of.) In retention of urine from chron enlargement of the prostate gland, Sir B. Brod rarely uses anything but a gum catheter, whic has one advantage, viz. that it may bo retained in CATHETER. 443 the urethra and bladder with vory^little inconvo- ience to the patient, which is not the case with a silver catheter. {Brodie, op. cit. p. 143.) Sometimes spasm about the perineum renders the introduction of a catheter difficult. In this case, a warm bath should be had recourse to, and dose of opium administered before a second at- tempt is made. When inflammation prevails in the passage, the introduction may often be facilitated by a previous application of leeches to the peri- neum. The operation of introducing the catheter may be performed, either when the patient is standing up, sitting, or lying down, which last posture ia the most favourable. In order to pass a catheter with ease and dexterity, the following circum- stances must be observed : —The instrument must be of suitable shape and size ; a just idea of the pe- rineum and curvature of the urethra must be enter- tained ; the catheter must be introduced with the greatest care and delicacy ; and the relaxation of the abdominal muscles has been insisted upon, {Langenhcch, Bill. i. p. 1177), though I confess, that it does not appear to me how this circumstance is of importance. A catheter should always be used with a light hand, and held, as it were, loosely in the fingers. " It will then in great measure find its own way in that direction in which there is the least resist- ance. If you grasp it firmly, it can only go where you direct it, and it is likel}' to puncture and lace- rate the membrane of the urethra, and the substance of the prostate, and to make a false passage.'' (See Brodie, On JDis. of the Vrin. Organs, p. 145, ed. 2.) Force, says another distinguished surgeon, is never necessary. The instrument should be allowed to find its way, as much by the influence of its own weight, as by that of any extraneous power. If it meets with resistance, it is to be withdrawn a little way, and then tried in another direction. (See Velpeati, Nouv. Elem. &c. t. iii. p. 915.) There are three methods of introducing a male catheter, viz. with the concavity, in the first stage of the operation, directed either towards the ab- domen, towards the left groin, or towards the sur- geon himself. Of course, the latter plan requires the instrument, which is introduced with the curve downwards, to be turned so as to place its concavity upwards, as soon as -the beak has arrived in the perineum ; and hence the French surgeons call this method the " tour de maitre." The operation may be divided into three stages. In the first, the catheter passes, in the male sub- ject, that portion of the urethra which is surromided by the corpus spongiosum ; in the second, it passes the membranous part of the canal, situated' be- tween the bulb and the prostate gland ; and in the third, it enters the gland, and the neck of the bladder. In the first stage, little trouble is usually expe- rienced ; for the canal is here so supported by the surrounding corpus spongiosum, that it cannot easily be pushed into the form of a pouch, in which the end of the instrument can be entangled. When the catheter is to bo introduced with its concavity towards the abdomen, and the patient is in the recumbent posture, the thighs are to be se- parated, and the legs moderately bent. The sur- geon is to draw back the prepuce, and to hold the penis between the thumb and forefinger of his left