''^^ FRACTURE, resembling a "dislocation backwards, the latter a dislocation forwards, of the carpus. Besides the usual signs, however, such as crepitus, increased mobility, &c. the fracture may be known by the altered position of the styloid process, with re- ference to the shaft of the radius, and by its following any movement communicated to the hand ; and also by the oblique or twisted ap- pearance of the deformity in both varieties of fracture of the radius singly, which does not belong to a dislocation, since both bones are then displaced together, either in one direction or the other. For this reason the mistake is not so likely to be made in the fracture of the radius alone as when the lower end of the ulna is also broken (See Fracture op both Bones.) The surgeon should always bear in mind the frequency of frac- ture of the lower end of the radius, and the ex- treme rarity of dislocation of the wrist. (See Dislocation.) Treatment.—In the treatment of the ordinary frac ture of the lower extremity of the radius, after the deformity has been reduced by a suitable degree of extension and counter-extension, special attention is required to prevent any recurrence of the dis- placement of the lower fragment; first, in the direc- tion backwards; secondly, in the direction outwards or towards the side of supination. Mr. Colles, aware of the necessity of fulfilling the first of these indications, used anterior and posterior splints, with a thick compress beneath the anterior splint opposite the seat of fracture, to press the lower end of the shaft of the bone backwards. He also used a third narrow splint on the ulnar side to press the extre mity of this bone against the side of the radius. Dupuytren employedanteriorandposteriorsplints in the ordinary way, with a third on the inner side, so contrived as to counteract the abduction of the Land. This ulnar splint was composed of a steel plate covered with leather, about fifteen inches long and an inch and a quarter wide ; it consisted of a straight portion corresponding to the ulna, and a part curved downwards corresponding to the hand. The hand was bound to this curved portion, and by that means securely maintained in the position of adduction. This plan effectually fulfilled the second indication; but it must have been insufficient as regards the first, as no compresses appear to have been used under the splints to prevent dis- placement backwards. Sir A. Cooper used an anterior and posterior splint with a compress posteriorly on the lower fragment of the radius, and another internally to press upon the ulna. Following the plan re- commended by Mr. Cline, the splints, which reached to the extremities of the metacarpal bones, were not bandaged lower than the wrist, and the hand was allowed to hang between them un- supported, so that by its weight it should draw upon the radius in the direction of adduction. The sling which supported the forearm was for this reason not permitted to extend beyond the wrist. M. Malgaigne uses anterior and posterior splints with compresses to prevent the displacement back- wards, and two lateral splints also with compresses beneath them, one so placed as to press inwards the lower fragment of the radius, the other to press outwards the lower extremity of the ulna. He thmks the splints should not extend beyond the nrstrow of carpal bones, and tluit there is no object m confining the hand if the lower extremity of the radius is securely fixed, but that on the con- trary it is much better to leave it free, that there may be less risk of permanent BtiShess of the wrist and fingers. The following plan, recommended by'Mr. R. W. Smith, seems calculated to fulfil very completelj' all the required indications. " The hand being moderately adducted, a cushion is to be placed on the posterior surface of the limb, of sufficient length to extend from the elbow to the fingers; the portion of this cushion which corresponds to the lower fragment of the radius and to the carpus, should be thicker than any other part, and from its ulnar to Its radial border should gradually increase in thick- ness. A transverse section of this portion of the cushion would represent an isosceles triangle, the base of which would correspond to the radial border of the limb. The objects proposed to be attained by constructing the pad of this form are, to press the lower fragment of the radius forwards, and to direct its external border towards the side of pro- nation. A second cushion, thicker below than above, is to be placed upon the front of the limb, but should not descend below the lower margin of the superior fi-agment, for otherwise it would, to a certain extent, counteract the influence of the dorsal cushion, and would tend to maintain the displace- ment backwards of the inferior firagment. An anterior and a posterior splint are then applied, each of which should be at least an inch broader than the forearm ; the posterior should extend from the elbow to the fingers, and should be curved from the wrist downwards, to receive the adducted hand ; the anterior need not descend below the palm of the hand: a roller is then to be carried round the splints in the ordinary manner. By constructing and placing the cushions in the manner above described, the two fragments are pressed in opposite directions, and the carpal sur- face of the inferior fragment is directed forwards, while the curved splint, by maintaining the hand moderately adducted, tends to restore to the articu- lating surface its natural direction inwards, quite as effectually as the ulnar splint of Dupuytren, and with much less uneasiness to the patient. It is scarcely necessary to mention that the form recom- mended can be readily given to that portion of the dorsal cushion which corresponds to the lower frag- ment, by the employment of graduated compresses. The apparatus recommended b.v Ndaton is very similar to that just described, and is identical with it in principle ; the use of the curved dorsal splint, instead of the ulnar splint of Dupuytren, constitutes the only difference of importance. {On Fractures, ^'c. p. 167.) Instead of the ulnar splint, M. N^- laton has since used a dorsal splint, curved at its lower end in the shape of the handle of a pistol, and very similar therefore to that recommended by Mr. Smith. The splints should be retained for three weeks in young persons, and for four or five in the aged, before passive motion is attempted. The recovery in these cases is slow, and six months will some- times elapse before the motion of tiie fingers i> completely restored. (See A, Cooper, On Disloca^ Hons, (5'f. p. 496.) In the fracture with displacement of the lower fragment forwards, the same principles of treatment will apply ; but the position of the pads used to press the ends of the fracture into position, must of course be reversed.]