ANUS T 2 tlie kind of case, may be superior or inferior, .■sternal or internal. When the artificial anus communicates with the great intestine, he considers rlysters amongst the best means of discovering the orifice of the lower continuation of the intes- tmal canal. Tu very difficult cases, he sanctions the use of a plus, purgative clysters, and a very full diet. (See CUniquc Ckir. t. ii. p. 265.) The two ends of the bowel being ascertained, the operation must not be performed if the mucous coat of the bowels, the peritoneum, or other organs be the seat of acute or chronic inflammation. The patient is to be prepared by a suitable, mild, anti- phlogistic plan. In the operation the patient is to lie upon his back. The surgeon takes one of the branches of tlie eiiterotome in the right hand, and guides it, if requisite, with the left forefinger, to one of the ori- fices of the bowel, to the depth of one, two, three, or four inches, according to circumstances. An assistant then takes charge of this first part of the instrument. The other branch is then introduced into the other end of the bowel in the same man- ner. Both branches are then brought together and joined like a pair of forceps. The blades are then made to grasp the bowel by pressin" the handles tojrether. The pressure is next regulated and_ maintained by means of a screw. Before the expiration of the first day, the pressure is to be in- creased sufficiently to kill the portion of intestinal tunics embraced by the instrument; and the pressure is to be again augmented every second day, to render its destruction still more certain. In the cases under Dupuytren, the instrument was detached between the seventh and tenth da}^ bring- ing away with it the destroyed jutting angle and septum, which prevented the upper portion of bowel from communicating with the lower. Frequently the first signs of the re-establishment of the natural passage precede the detachment of the enterotome. In all cases, slight colic occurs, the evacuations are at first white and albuminous from the lower bowels, and these are followed by etercoraceous matter from the upper ones. At first they are nu- merous and liquid, and attended with gripings; but they soon become of proper quality, and all uneasiness subsides. (See Dupuytren, in Clin Ckir. t. ii. p. 264, &c.) If, after the destruction of the septum, and the re-establishment of a free communication between the two portions of the bowel, the external fistula were not to admit of being healed by pressure and other ordinary means, no doubt could be enter- tained of the propriety of resorting to the plan of attempting to cure it by paring off the edges and bringing them together with sutures, as was somc- tiincs done by Dupuytren ; or on Taliacotiaii prin- ciples, as successfully exemplified by Mr. G. F. ino''^''' ^^^^ Jonrn./hr June, J820.) Dupuytren, for the purpose of making the sides of the fistula remain in contact, or making them approach each other, occasionally applied an ingenious little instrument, consisting of two pads, which, by means of a screw, can be made to em- brace the part. An engraving of it may be seen in Cmc/fl's .Tonrn. b. iii. taf. 3, fig. 9. For the closure of the fistula, Dupuytren also sometimes nad recourse to a truss, and now and then to the actual cautery. If alter the contraction, or perfect closure of the external opening, the patient should be attacked 275 with colic, nausea, vomiting, and other symptoms of retention of the intestinal matter ; and these complaints were not to yield to diluent drinks, aperient injections, and fomentations, Dupuytren recommends making a prompt incision through the cicatiLv, and forming a free outlet for the matter accumulated above it. (See Cdnique Chir. t. ii P 272.) [Several modifications of the enterotome have been devised, the object of which has been to give to the new communication a more circular form, instead of being a mere longitudinal fissure, as is' the case when Dupuytren's instrument is used. Liotard contrived an instrument to remove a portion of the septum in shape like the segment of a circle, and this has been advantageously modified by Bour- ge'ry for its more easy introduction into the bowel. (SeeBowffert/, Op. Surg. vol. ii. pi. 33, and Teale, op cit. p. 210.) It is doubtful however, whether any material advantage is thus obtained, since the opening made by the original instrument has always been found sufficient for the passage of the fajces, and probably after a time always becomes of a more or less circular form, as it was found to be in one of Dupuytren's cases, which was examined by Lallemand seven years after the operation. The following is Dupuytren's statement of the results of this operation: » Forty-one operations have been performed, twenty-one by myself, and twenty by other practitioners. The bowel had mortified from strangulation in three-fourths of the cases; ID the other fourth there had been wounds with loss of substance. Three cases terminated latally; one from supposed faecal effusion into the abdomen ; another from indigestion ; the third from the peritonitis excited by the operation. Of the remaining thirty-eight, the greater number had no unpleasant symptoms; some indeed had colic nausea and vomiting, but these svmptoms yielded 0 drinks containing carbonic acid, to leeches round the anus and fomentations of the abdomen " I he cure was not equally complete in all. fistulas, more or less extensive, remained in nine rendering the constant use of a truss necessaiy in order to prevent the involuntary escape of air mucus, bile and even fa2cal matters. Twentv-nine pauents were completely and radicallv cured in periods varying from two to six months?' (Me,,. delAead Royale de iMLl. tome i. and Lawrence op. cit. p. 411.) Mr. Lawrence remarks: "cases of artificial anus must be much more common in Paris than in London. Dupuytren employed his method in between twenty and thirty instances within a short time. No opportunity has occurred to me of nut ting 1 into practice either at St. Bartholomew's Hospital or elsewhere, for several years- and I believe that it has hardly been emplo^'d a't a 1 ij S jX"^;w'^^PP"'" "bservalimis f Jobeit, that the representations of Dunuvtren ance. He states that in the cases observed by him very serious inflammatory symptoms resulted om tl.c application of the enterotoine. He adds tl ,t a patient in the II6tel Dieu of Amiens ' d ed 0 cntero peritonitis after its application, and ImtsevPral other fatal cases have'been record d 1 lT! t '"n>e ii. p • . ; adverts to the risk that the adhesive inflammation may not always take place