HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. 931 3 0 2 whence inflammation and all ita consequences may follow, especially a suppuration and gangrene." The gangrenous spots ot" the dura mater subse- quently give way, and small portions of brain gradually ooze through the openings; these con- tinue to enlarge, and a protruded mass of cerebral substance fills up the opening in the bone. If the dura mater has been lacerated the tension of the membrane is taken off at the commencement of the disease, and the fungus makes its appearance much more quickly; but, having reached the level of the outer part of the skull, it advances in a similar manner as in the former case. The tumor is at first covered with the pia mater unless the brain is lacerated, but as the disease advances this gradu- ally gives way, and the fungus extends itself in various directions. Sometimes it presents an oval shape; in others, like a mushroom, it encroaches to a great extent upon the surface of the skull, especially if pressure is employed to restrain it. Its extent is almost unlimited. Mr. Stanley men- tions a case occurring in the Lock Hospital, in which the tumor reached six and a half inches in one direction and five and a half in another, and its greatest elevation reached two inches above the open- ing in the frontal bone. When the fungus first ap- pears it is brainlike in its character, but it is fre- quently found mixed with clotsof blood. Sometimes its surface is covered with a layer of coagulated blood. If handled much it bleeds freely, but if left un- touched it rarely bleeds. The character of the tumor changes as the disease advances, and if a section of it be made it is found to have lost its original brainlike appearance, or but very slight traces of cerebral matter are observed in it. If the finger is carefully carried round the root of the tumor, it is felt begirt by the dura mater and the edge of the opening in the bone, which is fre- quently found quite dead. Sloughs not uncom- monly are seen upon the surface of the tumor, and it discharges a fluid of a remarkably foetid odour. It is impossible to say to what extent the disease may proceed; the only limit to its exten- sion appears to be its tendency to slough, as if its vessels were unable to maintain its vitality beyond a certain point. Pressure, when firmly applied, occasions a sloughing of the mass, and when the sloughs have separated healthy florid granulations shoot up and supply their place. In a case quoted from the Medical Commentaries by Mr. Stanley, the protruded mass gradually dropped off in large pieces, and the patient eventually got well, the only application being dressings of dry lint. At the beginning of the disease, when the mass just fills up the opening of the skull, or is raised a little above it, pulsation is perceptible, and the tumor is raised when forcible expiration is performed, as in the act of coughing; but this ceases after the tumor has advanced over the surface of the cra- nium. During the progress of the disease a large quantity of discharge is poured out from the tumor, sometimes serous and fojtid, at others distinctly purulent, and frequently after an attack of coma a free discharge of fluid occurs by which the symp- toms are relieved. The progress of the tumor, if not restrained, continues uninterruptedly until sloughing occurs, or the patient is exhausted by irritation or by the discharge, or dies comatose. If, on the contrary, the case proceeds spontaneously to a favourable termination, sloughs form upon the surface of tho tumor and gradually drop off, giving place to healthy granulations, which coalesce with those of the scalp, and complete cicatrisation takes place; or, if the tumor is sliced off and pressure applied, it ceases to be reproduced, and the sittface assumes a healthy granulating aspect and cicatrises, or the tumor gradually recedes into the skull. The disease makes its appearance within ten or fourteen days after the accident which led to the removal of the bone. From the commencement and during the progress of hernia cerebri, an irregular train of symptoms of general indisposition together with great cerebral disturb- ance occurs. From an apparently convalescent state after the removal of a piece of bone, irritative fever comes on, succeeded occasionally by stupor, a tendency to coma, and hemiplegia, v^rith low muttering delirium. But, prior to the appearance of any protrusion, great general constitutional irri- tation is often observed, and, the instant the dura mater gives way, a remarkable amelioration, or even a complete cessation, takes place. An illustration of this fact is given by Mr. Stanley, which we shall briefly relate. " A boy, ten years old, received a kick from a horse on the left side of the head, which produced a fracture of the skull, the bone being bare and depressed fully the thickness of the skull itself. Symptoms of pressure existed, and an irregular triangular piece of bone was removed with the trephine. The dura mater was covered with a coagulum extend- ing considerably beyond the area of the frac- ture. The wound was dressed with adhesive plaster, and in the evening his pulse was more regular, but the other symptoms were not relieved. Next day he was restless and impatient, instantly falling into a comatose state, and as suddenly starting out of it; his respiration and pulse were a little relieved, but still irregular. On the fourth day there appeared paralysis of the right side of the face. The wound was daily dressed, his bowels were relieved by clysters, but he continued in the same stupid state till the eighth day from the opera- tion. He could not be roused by his attendants, but on any loud noise would screech wildly and attempt to jump out of bed,fallingagain suddenly into stupor and muttering delirium. On the eighth day he passed his urine involuntarily. In the evening he was much better, having slept quietly for some hours • he had asked for bread and eaten it freely, talked about circumstances which had occurred previously to the accident, had had a copious motion, and was perfectly quiet and easy. His pulse became fuller, slower, and more quiet; his skin improved his features were more full, but the paralytic con- dition, though less perceptible, still remained. The next morning the dura mater was observed ruptured and turned back by the protruding brain, which was about the size of the end of a hen's egg. It was of natural colour and perfectly healthy. He was now quite sensible; the pulse was soft, full, and regular; in fact, he was now in a very satisfactory condition. lie eventually got perfectly well." With the advance of the tumor and the in- crease of the discharge the constitutional symptoms increase, and hectic fever with profuse perspira- tions gradually reduce the powers of the patient- the delirium continues, and he dies exhausted! Such is the result of cases of fungus cerebri in ge- neral ; in some, however, during its progress a sudden discharge of serum or pus is attended with an improvement in the condition of the patient