GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 815 an accident much more to be apprehended than has been supposed, often comes on a few moments after the injury, and if prompt succour were not aft'orded, would put a period to the patient's exist- ence. " I can even declare that, had it not been for the activity of the train of light surgical carriages (ambulances volantes) by means of which the wounded have always been dressed upon the field of battle, many soldiers would have perished from this accident alone." If the operation is not speedily done, pain commences, fever occurs, and the functions of the system become disordered ; the irritation then in- creases, and convulsive motions take place, If the patient should not be a victim to these first sym- ptoms, gangrene of the stump follows, the fatal consequences of which it is extremely difficult to prevent. At Strasburg, during the bombardment of the fort of Kell, in 1792, three volunteers, says Baron Larrey, had limbs shot oiF by the explosion of shells : one, an arm ; another, a fore-arm ; and the third, a leg. They were conveyed to the hospital for the wounded in that town, which was superin- tended by M. Boy. Several days were suffered to elapse before amputation was performed ; not one of the patients escaped. At Mentz, after the retreat from Frankfort, several of the wounded, who had had limbs shot off, did not have amputa- tion performed till some time afterwards, and not one of them recovered. At Nice, after the taking of Saourgio, two amputations were practised at the hospital. No. 2, one of the forearm, the other of the arm, nine or ten days after the receipt of the in- juries ; both the patients died. At Perpignan, Baron Larrey visited two soldiers on whom am- putation had been done seven or eight days after the receipt of gunshot injuries in the action of the 14th of July, 1794, One had had a leg shot oflf, and the other .his right arm. Notwith- standing Larrey's utmost care, he could not save their lives ; one died of tetanus, the other of gangrene. Second Case.— When a body, propelled by gun- powder, strikes a limb in such a manner as to smash the bones, violently contuse, lacerate, and deeplj' tear away the soft parts, amputation ought to be immediately performed. If this measure be neglected, all the injured parts will soon be seized ■with gangrene : and besides, as Larrey has ex- plained, the accidents which the gravity of the first case produces, will also here be e.Kcited. Third Case.—If a similar body were to carry away a great mass of the soft parts, and the prin- cipal vessels of a limb (of the thigh, for instance), ■without fracturing the bone, the patient would be in a state demanding immediate amputation ; for, independently of the accidents which would origi- nate from a considerable loss of substance, the limb must inevitably mortify. Mr. Guthrie also says, " A cannon-shot destroying the artery and rein, on the inside (of the thigh), without injuring the bone, requires amputation." (P. 185.) When, however, the femoral artery or vein is injured by a musket-ball, or small canister-shot, this gentle- man recommends tying the vessel above and below the wound in it, if the nature of the case be evinced by htemorrhage. But he believes that when both vein and artery are injured, amputation is neces- sary. (P. 186.) With respect to bleeding from the femoral vein, as it may easily be stopped by moderate pressure, the propriety of using any ligature at all is questionable. "An injury of the femoral artery (observes Mr. Guthrie), requiring an operation, accompanied with fracture of the bone of the most simple kind, is a proper case for immediate amputation ; for, although many patients would recover from either accident alone, none would, I believe, surmount the two united ; and the higher the accident is in the thigh, the more imperious is the necessity for amputation." [Guihrie, On Gunshot Wounds, p. 187.) Fourth case.—A grape-shot strikes the thick part of a member, breaks the bone, divides and tears the muscles, and destroys the large nerves, without, however, touching the main artery. Ac- cording to Larrey this is a fourth case requiring immediate amputation. Mr. Guthrie seems to coincide on this point with Larrey : " If a cannon-shot strike the back part of the thigli, and carry away the muscular part behind, and with it the great sciatic nerve, ampu- tation is necessary, even if the bone be untouched, &c. In this case I would not perform the opera- tion by the circular incision, but would preserve a flap from the forepart, or sides, as I could get it, to cover the bone, which should be short." (Guthrie, On Gunshot Wounds of the Ecdremities, p. J84.) Fifth case.—If a spent cannon-shot, or one that has been reflected, should strike a member obliquely without producing a solution of continuity in the skin, as often happens, the parts which resist its action, such as the bones, muscles, tendons, fasciae, and vessels, may be ruptured and crushed. The ex- tent of the internal disorder is to be examined; and if the bones should feel through the soft parts as if they were smashed, and if there should be reason to suspect from the swelling, and a sort of fluctu- ation, that the vessels are lacerated, amputation ought to be immediately practised. This is also the advice of Baron Percy. Sometimes, however, the vessels and bones escape injury, and the muscles are almost the only parts disordered. In this circumstance, we are enjoined to follow the counsel of De La Martiniere, who recommended making an incision through the skin. By this means a quantity of thick blackish blood will be discharged, and the practitioner must await events.. According to Larrey, such incision is equally necessary in the preceding case, previously to amputation, in order to ascertain the extent of mischief. Sia'th case.—When the articular lieads of bones are much broken, especially those which form the joints of the foot, or knee, and the ligaments wliich strengthen these articulations are lacerated by the fire of a howitzer or a grape-shot or other kind of ball, and the integuments are'too much bruised and lacerated to attempt excision of the joint, immediate amputation is indis- pensable. (See also GiUhric, On Gunshot Wounds. p. 197.) Fractures extending into the joints, and accom- panied with great laceration of the ligaments and integuments, are cases of gunshot injuries indispen- sably requiring immediate amputation. It is evident, says Larrey, that in this case, if we wish to prevent the patient from dying of the subsequent symptoms, amputation should be performed before twelve, or at most twenty-four,