114 AMPUTATION patienta by the consideration, that he had already preserved some lives by amputating either both thighs, both legs, or botli arms, or removing the humerus at the shoulder-joint. Larrey has also the merit of having first done the operation in the de- scription of cases, in which (with the exception of bad examples of necrosis, or of incurable disease, of the higher part of the femur) it is more decidedly proper than any other; viz. gunshot injuries of the head, neck, and upper part of the femur, with or without injury of the femoral artery, or where the limb has been carried away by a shell, or cannon- ball, too high np to admit of amputation in the ordinary manner. However, he also regards as fit occasions for amputation at the hip-joint, cir- cumstances in which, from gunshot violence, the limb is seized, or threatened, with gangrene, nearly lip to the hip. (A/em. de Chir. Mil. t. ii. p. 185.) Severe as tiie operation is, Larrey contends that, if it ever prove the means of saving lives which are in danger, it is an act of humanity, and he argues that it is justifiable by the old maxim of Hippocrates, "Ad extremes morbos extrema re- media." To the chief objections which have been made to it, he replies, Ist, That the wound is more alarming than dangerous. The Csesarean operation (says he) has been successfully per- formed on the living female, and is still recom- mended by many practitioners. L'Aumonier, prin- cipal surgeon of the Rouen Hospital, successfully removed a scirrhous ovary of considerable size. Examples are recorded of the arm and scapula being torn away, and the patients soon recovering. Besides, the surgeon has it in his power to lessen the woimd produced by the operation. 2ndly, The dangers of hemorrhage may be obviated by the assistants temporarily placing their fingers on the mouths of the cut vessels, until ligatures can be applied. In confirmation of his sentiments, concernmg the propriety of the operation, Larrey adverts to a fact reported by Morand, where a soldier had mentum teres, it is rendered tense by abduction of the limb, and presents itself to the edge of the knife. On the contrary, if the operator begin with dividing the external portion of the capsule, the limb should be placed in the position of ad- duction ; the ligamentum teres is then relaxed, but it makes no resistance to the disarticulation, and may afterwards be easily divided. The hip- joint is more superficial in front than in any other direction. A line drawn perpendicularly down- wards, from the union of the middle with the ex- ternal third of Poupart's ligament, will be sure to pass over the fore part of it. Internal and external Flaps.—Larrey operated as follows: — He began with making an incision in the track of the inguinal artery in the bend of the groin, and tied this vessel as closely as possible to Poupart's ligament, in order that the ligature, which was placed above the origin of the circuinflex ar- teries and the profunda, might obviate all inconve- nience from the bleeding, which might otherwise have happened from their numerous branches. This being done, a straight knife was perpendi- cularly plunged between the tendons of the mus- cles attached to the trochanter minor and the base of the neck of the femur, so as to bring out its point at the back part of the limb, or in a diame- trically opposite situation to its first entrance ; and now, by directing the knife obliquely inwards and downwards, a flap, which was not to be too large, was made of the soft parts at the inner and upper portion of the limb. This flap was now drawn towards the scrotum by an assistant, and tlie arti- culation was brought into view. The obtiu-ator arterj', and some branches of the pudendal, wounded in making the flap, were immediately tied. The thigh was now put into the state of abduction; the inner part of the orbicular ligament, made tense by this position, [was divided, and the joint opened. The ligamentum teres was then cut, and the bone dislocated. The knife was next brought to the outside of the great trochanter, and an external both his arms so near the shoulders, that he could hold nothing in his armpits. Yet mutilated as he was, he enjoyed good health. (Opuscules de Chir. p. 183.) And Larrey, in his own work, has recorded several instances, in which the whole of a limb was removed, or more than t)ie halves of both the upper or lower extremities of the same subject, without any fatal constitutional disturb- ance. (Mem. de Chir. Mil. t ii. p. 182—184.) One of his patients above alluded to survived the operation a week, at the end of which he was car- ried off by the plague ; and the others died, after being conveyed, in a very uneasy manner, during a precipitate march of tlie army. (See Relation de I'Erpedilion de VArmie d'Orietit en Egypte, 4-c. p. 319. 8vo. Paris, 1803.) At the battle of Wagram, Larrey operated at the hip-joint on two soldiers of the imperial guard, under very unfa- vourable circumstances ; these patients died in a few hours. (Mem. da Chir. Mil, t. iii. p. 349.) Whatever metliod of amputating at the hip be adopted, the surgeon should remember, that the acetabulum is not deep enough to receive the en- tire head of the femur, wliich constitutes niore than the half of a sphere, and is so enil)rnced by the fibrous capsule, that it remains as it were stran- Rulated, if this latter part be not divided close to the margin of the acetabulum. As for the liga- that which had been made at the inner side ot the limb. In proceeding through the operation, Larrey secured, as soon as they were divided, the obtu- rator arteries, and several branches of the pudendal, gluteal, and ischiatic arteries. The two flaps wore brouRht together, and kept in this position, with strips of adhesive plaster, and a woollen spica. bandage. (See Man. de Chir. Mil. t. ii. p. 180— 188.) , ^ ^ In the Russian campaign, Larrey had two moie opportunities of amputating at the hipoomt- In the first instance, he operated npon a Russian at Witepsk, whose thigh-bone was broken to pieces up to the trochanter, and the soft parts of two- thirds of the thickness of the limb destroyed, i Ins man went on as favourably as possible until the 25th day from the operation, tlic parts being healed except at two points, where the liga «res had been brought out; but, ""f">-'""«/^^ > scarcity of provisions now occurred, and the. pa SrScd o/i the 29th or 30th day The secom operation was done on a French 'l-''^'?''; '/''^ the battle of Mozaisk, who was "fierwards s > perfectly cured by the surgeon-major, a O.c n vlio received him there, and "^nde a repmt of t e fact to Larrey. (See Mem de Chir. M.l. t. n. n 2() .50. 51, 8vo. Paris, 1817.) ^' In 1812^1. Baffos amputated at the li.p nearly