1049 HYDROPHOBIA, oesophagus and lungs also participating in the inflammation. {Commerc, Litter. Novemb. 1743, helid. 5.) [Four cases in modern record are recorded as in- stances of spontaneous hydrophobia, whicli pre- sented, according to thedescription.allthe symptoms of true hydrophobia, and without inoculation. They are related by M. Businout (Lond. Med. Reposilo)-y, 1814); Dr. Momfort (Walther and Amnion's Review. Jan. 1849); Dr. Drake (West. Journal, ^c. 1831); Di-. Condie (rrans. of Phila- deiph. Coll. of Phys. 1849): but in these cases, as in those of Viret and Savirotte, two at least suggest, l)y internal evidence, occasions of inocnlation. Dr. Drake's patient was a tanner in the habit of handling recent skins, and an epizootic of rabies was at the time raging; and M. Busmout's patient was a woman taken ill on hearing the death of her husband, but, during her illness, she allowed her mouth to be licked by a dog, which speedily became rabid, and died in four days. Everything here would imply that the dog had inoculated the woman, and not the woman the dog.] Animals of the dog kind, including the wolf and the fo.x, are most frequently the subject of rabies, and certain writers have maintained that, although it may be received and propagated by other animals, yet it always originates in some of the canine race. (Hillary on Diseases of Barhadoes, p. 24 6.) How- ever, it is asserted that the disease sometimes originates spontaneously in cats, that is to ■say, without their having been previously bitten by another rabid animal, and such an assertion is made by Ccelius Aurelianus, Porphyrins, Avicenna, &c. not only with respect to man, but hnrses, asses, camels, hogs, bullocks, bears, monkeys, and even poultry. (See Did. des Sciences Med. t. xlvii. p. 45.) [Among modern observations we find an instance recorded of the asserted spontaneous origin of hydrophobia in a fox, which was tame, and being teased in its cage bit the man, who died hydrophobic. (Smith on Hydrojiholiia, American Quarterly Journal of Medical Sciences, 18.55, p. 2i'3.)] It is interesting to inquire what animals are capable of comnuniicating rabie.<, and whatanimaU of receiving it. [Of a large series of cases collected by Tarn hay n (illier HnndsivutU and W'lssersc/ieu, Schmidt., Jahrbucher, Bd. 101), "258 persons were bitten by dogs, twenty-seven by cats, twenty-two by wolves, three by foxes, one by a bear, and one by a badger, and in all hydrophobia followed. Of animals which are subject to rabies, he enumerates the cases,in addition to the above, of seven pig's, a white bear, and a duck.] The experiment, made by Dr. Zincke, tend to prove also that birds, at least the common fowl, may have the disease communicated to them. (Neue Ansichten der Hundswuth, ^c. 8vo. Jena, 1804.) But though it be well known that animals of the dog and cat kinds can propagate the disorder, it is not settled whether it can be communicated by other animals. In a memoir read to the Fr ench In- stitute, M. Huzard explained that herbivorousquad- rupeds, affected with rabies, are incapalile of trans- mitting the disease, a position suhsequently con- firmed by additional experiments and ohservatinns made in the Veterinary School at Alfort. jVIlM. Girard and Vatel inoculated, with the saliva of a rabid sheep, two other sheep, a yoirng dog, and a horse, but none of those animals evinced any symp- toms of the disease, and continued well four months after the experiment. (Magendie in Joum. de Physiol. Exper. viii. p. 326, &c. 8vo. Paris, 18-28.) Professor Dupuy could never communicate the dis- temper to cows and sheep, by rubbing their wounds with a sponge which animals of the same class labouring under the disease had had in their mouths; though the same expernnent, made with a sponge which had been bitten by a rabid dog, propa- gated rabies by a kind of inoculation. Dupuy has likewise seen amongst several flocks, sheep affected with rabies, yet the distemper was never conrmuni- cated by them to other sheep, notwithstanding the latter were bitten in parts stripped of wool. Dr. Gillman inoculated two rabbits with the saliva of a rabid pig, but the disease was not communicated to them. ( On the Bite of a Rabid A nimal, p. 38.) [The experience, and ver bally-expressed opinions of Professor Spoorrer, at the Veterinary College, con- firm these conclusions, at the present date. (I860.)] On the other hand Mr. King, of Clifton, is stated to have communicated rallies to a fowl, by inocu- lating it with the saliva of an ox which had just fallen a victim to the disease. (J. Ashliiirner, Diss, de Hydrophobia, p. 29.) Tire author of the article Raye (Did. des. Sciences Med.) observes, respect- ing this singular case that, as it is accompanied with no details, doubts must remain whether the fowl actually died of rabies. As for some extraordinary cases in which the disease is alleged to have been communicated to the human subject by the bite of birds, or injuries done with the claws of animals, they are generally dismissed by modern writers, with the inference that the complaint thus transmitted was not true hydrophobia or rabies. This conclusion is made with respect to the cases of this kind reported by Ccelius Aurelianus, and Bader, and the notorious example mentioned by A. Baccius of a gardener who died from the bite of a cock whicli, accor- ding to some, was rabid, according to others, merely enraged. Hildanns also details an iirstance in which a young man was scratched on the great toe by a cat, and simie momhs afterwards was attacked with hydrophobia (Ois. < hir. cent. 1. Ohs. 16); but, as a urodern writer observes, if the patient were really affected with rabies, it is con- ceivable that the cat's claw wit'i which the scratch was made, might have been wet with the animal's saliva. (Did. des Sciences Med. t. xlvii. p. 47.) [Dr. Wood mentions a case in which he thinks that fatal hydrophobia might be traced to the bite of a bird. This aho is highly dubious. (YVood's Practice of Medicine, New York, 1856.)] Another question of considerable importance is whether hydrophobia, that is to say, rabies can be connnunicated fromorie human being to another or whether in man the disease is infectious or con- tagious. Many attempts have been made in vain to communicate the distemper to several kinds of animals, by inoculating them with the saliva of patients who had perished of the disease. These experiments were made in this country by Gau- thier, Vangharr, Baoington, &c. but ito irrfection was the coirsequence. In France Giraud inocu- lated several dogs with the faliva of a nnvn in the convulsed stage of hydrophobia, but n<nie of them afterwards took the distemper. (Dnsc/ui/lon, Mew. sur les Causes da I'Hydrophubie, in Mm. do la Soo. d Emulation, cinquieme annee.) M. Girard, of Lyons, collected some of tho frothy saliva tho in-