AllTERIES find one piercing the fascia, so as to get immedi- ately under the skin, while the other, which then gives off the radial and the interosseous, retains its ordinary relations. (See Velpeau, Noiiv. Etem. de Me<i. Oj»e/-. t. i. p. 2!0.) In the operation placing a ligature on the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow, the surgeon should remember, that tlie course of the vessel here corresponds to a line drawn obliquely in- wards and upwards, from the middle of the front of the elbow, to the inner border of the biceps. Its course is also denoted by the median basilic vein, which passes under the skin, almost in the same line as the artery. An incision, between two and three inches in length, is to be made through the skin, on the inner side of this vein, which is to be carefully drawn out of the way. Then, with the aid of a director, the fascia, and the fibrous production given off from the tendon of the biceps, are to be divided ; which having been accom- plished, the artery will present itself, bounded on the right and left by its two venae comites, the me- dian nerve lying three or four lines from its inner, and the tendon of the biceps the same distance from its outer, border. To facilitate the passage of the aneurism-needle or director under the artery, the elbow is to be a little bent, and the instrument passed from within outwards under the vessel (See Manec, op. cit. p. 166.) If the operation were performed somewhat higher, the surgeon must remember, that two or three inches above the trochlea of the humerus, the median nerve would beo-in to be in front of tlie artery. In the upper part of the arm, the brachial artery lies at the inner border of the coraco-biachialis, and has the median nerve at first external to it, and then in front of it. Below the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, it is situated at the inner edge ol the biceps. Four circumstances are enumerated as guides for the external incision :—l.The inner edge of the coraco-brachialis above, and that ot the bi ceps below. 2. A line drawn from the middle of the axilla to the middle of the bend of the elbow. 3. Placing the fingers on the median nerv-e, and cutting on its inner side. {Lufranc.) 4. ihe pulsations of the artery. _ The knife is carried in the direction of the artery from above downwards in the right arm, and from below upwards in the left, and an incision made . _i * inf-hpQ Inno-. With in the integuments, about three inches long. With the forefinger, the surgeon next endeavours to feel the median nerve, which presents itself as a round very hard cord ; and to distinguish the artery by its pulsations. He then divides, with the aid o a director, one after the other, the fascia, and the sheath given off by it to the median nerve; and breaking, with the end of a probe or director, the fibio celkilar covering of the vessels, separates the artery from the veins, and puts a ligature under it. Except when anomalies occur, the operation is simple. M. Velpeau has only once seen the median nerve under the artery. I" iiH ordinary cases, it is the first cord met with behind the inner margin of the biceps. (See Velpeau, Nouv. Ekm. 4-c. t. i. p. 211.) As some very celebrated surgeons have made the serious mistake of tying the median nerve for the brachial artery, 1 advise the practitioner never to tigliten the ligature, until he has tiled the effect of pressure on wliat ho supposes to be tlie artery. In order not to mistake the ulnar for tlie me- dian nerve, and to be led to seek for the artery where it will not be found, it is an excellent rule to proceed in the operation from the anterior to the posterior part of the arm. (See Mancc, Man, de Mul. Oper. p. 167.) Ligature of the Radial Artery behind ilie Carpus. —If the thumb be forcibly extended, the tendons of its great abductor and long extensor will be made very prominent behind. In the depression between them, the pulsations of the radial artery can be felt. The thumb being drawn away from the forefinger, an incision, an inch and a half in length, is to be made in the direction of the foregoing tendons, first through the skin, and then through the fascia. The artery is then to be separated from some veins and nervous filaments, with a probe or director. (See Manec, op. cit. p. 163.) Ligature of the Radial Artery in the Lower Tliird of the Fore-arm.—Here the artery can readily be felt, being only covered by the fascia and the skin. On each"side of it is a vein ; but the radial nerve is considerably to the outer side of it, having passed under the supinator radii longus, a little be- low the middle of the fore-arm. An incision, two inches and a half long, is to be made a little way from the radial margin of the flexor carpi radialis, between this and the supinator longus. The fascia is to be opened, and the ligature passed from within outwards, or from without inwards, as the surgeon may choose, as it is a matter of indifference, the nerve being out of danger. Ligature of the Radial Artery'in the Upper Third of ihe Fore-arm.—Bere the ai-tery runs in the space which separates the supinator radu lon- gus from the pronator teres and palmaris longus, covered by the internal border of the first of these muscles, and of course by the fascia and the skin. It is always accompanied by two veins, and has the radial nerve at its outer side. Its course is accuratelv indicated by a line, drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow to the mid point between the styloid process of the radius and the tendon of the palmaris longus. In the direction of this line, M. Roux makes an incision, about two inches and a half m length, commencing a little below the elbow. It the median vein is met with, it is pushed aside. The fascia is then slit up with a director, and the border of the long supinator dra«ai outwards, without dividing it. The artery haying been brought into view, the aneurism-needle, or eye- probe, is passed under it from without inwards, on accnuit of the nerve. (See Manec, Man. de Med. Oper. p. 164.) . Others adopt the following plan :—A finger is to be iiut on the insertion of the tendon of the biceps. A little below this insertion, an incision, about two inches and a half in length, is to be iiiade in the integuments, in the oblique direction denoted hv the inner edge of the supinator n.di. longus The subjacent fascia is then to be divided,and t c inner edge of the supinator muscle drawn a li tie to the outer side of the arm : in the space be- tween that muscle and the flexor carp, radialis the radial artery immediately P^e^'-'"'^.. passing over the tendon of the pronator radii teres 'BeTow'this it lies upon a few fibres of the Ae- sublimis and the flexor longus pollicis. f ^^^^^^^ it nms down between the ^^-^^^'^j:::. the flexor carpi ladinlis. (biee umpci Anal. Pathol, lib. i. tab.