3 u 4 diuresis, the uriue, not only containing a largo amount of tlie chlorides, but also of other consti- tuents, indicating an increased metamorphosis of tissue. (Bischqf.) Where a portion only of the salt passes off by the kidneys, other secretions arc increased, and probably the cutaneous exhalation ; and where oedema, or elt'usion, has taken place, and the hydrtemia has been thus relieved by diuresis, the blood, becoming more concentrated, these morbid states are relieved by endosmosis. But the kidneys often ftiil to produce this effect from the agency of dilution, if free or unassimilated soluble substances, which these organs are capable of separating, be not also contained in the blood. Hence the skin, the obstructed function of which is most frequently concerned in the production of a permanent state of hydraemia, is the organ by which this morbid condition may be most easily remedied, and, indeed, unless the skin be restored to a perfect physiological state, all other measures will certainly fail. Where the health is not too much deteriorated, active exercise, as in hunting, quick walking, athletic games, or manual labour in a high temperature, daily, so as to excite free perspiration, with a generous diet will suffice; but where this cannot be resorted to, sudorifics are in- dicated. Of these the warm and the vapour bath have hitherto been regarded as the most efficacious, but of late the hot-air bath, introduced into this country by the Romans, and employed in the East since their period, has been revived under the desig- nation of the Turkish bath. The patient, divested of all clothing except a cummerbund (loin-cloth), is introduced into the tepidarium, which is a room heated, say from 110° to 115° Fah. After becoming thoroughly warm, with his skin slightly perspiring, he passes into the sudatorium, in which the tempera- tui-e varies from 135° to 160°; here aprofuse pers- piration breaks out ; he is then subjected to the process of shampooing, and ultimately to showers of hot and cold water alternately, in the lavatorium; returns for a short time to the hot-air chamber, and then passes to the frigidarium, or cooling chamber. This is the most powerful sudorific process known. It is well calculated to restore the deteriorated function of the skin, and the aqueous circulation of the economy, and when re- sorted to twice or thrice a week, it bids fair to prove one of the best remedies for the hydrajmic condition incidental to this variable and damp climate. The consequences of too dilute a condition of the blood, and of hydrcemic plethora, point to the ne- cessity of watching the hygrometric condition of the atmosphere of the sick room; and to the use of the wet and dry bulb thermometer, particularly in the wards of hospitals. A sick room has often been surcharged with moisture by merely washing the floor, and the result has been temporary hydrajmic plethora, and attacks of hypersemia with corj za, bronchitis, nephritis, and other inflammatory affec- tions, or hemorrhoids, and even apoplexy and other hcemorrhages, from a sudden arrest of the cutaneous evaporation without an adequate compensating action of vicarious organs; and the true cause has not been suspected. Atmospheric changes in our variable climate frequently lead to similar results. Individuals in health or disease, taking habitually large quantities of fluid ingesta, the blood being already too fluid, are dependent for their safety upon the action of the secreting organs; and if HYDREMIA LYMPHATICA. 1031 cutaneous transudation and vaporisation be sud- denly arrested, or habitually interfered with, too great a stress is made on the organs, often re- sulting in a derangement of their functions, and in disease. The hygrometric condition, as well as the temperature of the atmosphere of the sick chamber, should be sedulously watched, and the fluid ingesta allowed to patients judiciously regulated. In the atmosphere of a room the pro- portion of vapour conducive to health and to re- covery from disease depends on its temperature. It may be taken at three grains per cubic foot at 50°, four grains at 60°, and five grains at 70°; and these proportions exist when the wet bulb of the thermometer reads respectively 45°, 54°, and 63°. When the atmospheric air is very dry, or when the external air, being at a very low temperature, and consequently containing a low proportion of moisture, the air of a room is raised to a very high temperature, rendering it extremely dry, rapid eva- poration takes place from the skin and lungs, owing to the caloric of the surface of the body becoming latent, and depression of temperature occurs with con- traction of the superficial blood-vessels, chilliness, and often internal hypersemias. This extreme dry- ness has accordingly to be provided against in sur- gical practice. When the air is extremely humid, as measured by a high dew-point, evaporation front the surface is greatly diminished, or may be com- pletely arrested. In this case the blood must be- come rapidly hydrated, unless the deficiency of evaporation lie compensated for by the action of the kidneys or bowels, or the supply of fluid in- gesta be reduced. If a number of persons be crowded in an unventilated apartment, one of the effects is to saturate the air with moisture, and produce a temporary hydrsemia. It may be esti- mated that each individual supplies the air with twelve grains of vapour per minute; sufficient to saturate nine cubic feet of air of theordinary healthy hygrometric standard, at 50°, six feet at 60°, and four and a half feet at 70°. In a hospital ward containing twenty patients, 180 cubic feet of air, supplied from without at 30°, will be saturated with moisture per minute. The importance of this consideration to scrofulous patients, and others whose blood is already poor, confined in the siu:- gical wards of a hospital for weeks or months for the treatment of local disease, has been too much overlooked. (See Report of the Committee ap- pointed to inquire into the best Mode of tvarm- iny and ventilati7ig Divellings. Printed by Order, 1857.)] Henry Ancell. [HYDRAEMIA LYMPHATICA. This has been described as a peculiar form of anosmia. The blood is extremely watery, and deficient in red corpuscles and coagulum. It resembles a pink- coloured water, and is often not like blood at all. The symptoms are a perfectly white or blanched state of the whole body, enlargement of the lymphatic glands, serous exudation into all the tissues, extreme debility, broatlilossness, and utter prostration. The urine is not albuminous, there is no excess of white corpuscles in the blood, and there is no tubercle. There are not the symptoms of deficiency of blood in the vessels, or true ante- mia. It is slow dcatli by loss of the vital con- stituents of the blood and dropsy, On post- mortem examination, the lymphatic glands are often found greatly enlarged throughout the body