HYPERINOSIS, 1080 ndation. The excess of fibrme in hj'perinosis, ac- cording to Vii-chow, is derived from dififerent . structures, and conveyed into the blood by the lympliatics; and is a product of the local inflam- mation. Those organs which have inherent in them in the highest degree, the power of producing iibrine, and are abundantly supplied with lym- phatic vessels, as the lungs, pleura, and bronchial glands, increase the Iibrine in the blood when inflamed; whereas inflammation of the brain, in which organ there are no lymphatics, is unattended with increase of fibrine in the hlood. According to Virchow, again, when a part produces a large quantity of fibrinous exudation,this is conveyed into the blood by the current of the lymph, and it is not until the local production hecomes excessive that a local accumulation takes place in addition to the hyperinosis. In support of this view. Professor Virchow re- marks, that in every irritation of a part abundantly supplied with lymphatics and freely connected with lymphatic glands, together with the hyperinosis there is the introduction of a large number of lymph corpuscles, and it is very rare that an increase of fibrine takes place without a simultaneous increase of the colourless corpuscles of the blood, which he believes to be lymph corpuscles. Every erysipela- tous and diffuse phlegmonous inflammation early affects the lymphatic glands, and an increase in the number of white corpuscles of the blood takes place, but no considerable formation of fibrine in the diseased parts, and there is no hyperinosis. The same thing occurs in typhus where there is a hypinotic state of the blood. i3ut the excess of fibrine is not the only impor- tant modification presented by blood in a state of inflammatory commotion, and the increased tempe- rature and the rapid destruction of the red corpus- cles cannot be referred to the agency of fibrine absorbed. That some local irritation is necessary to the localisation of the morbid action, and that the local and general disease are often set up simultaneously are highly probable. (See art. Fever.) That local disease is often followed by hyperinosis is also certain. (See HyPERiEMiA, Inflammation, Pyemia.) I3ut that a pre-exist- ing inflammatory state of the blood is often the foils et origo of local inflammatory attacks, ap- pears to be equally clear. The causes which produce these attacks are often not local in their operation, but general, as atmospheric, epidemic, and climatic influences, and poisons. General symptoms frequently precede local elfects of any kind, and all general morbid conditions of the blood have a tendency to localise themselves. Even acute pneumonia with a fibrinous product, the general symptoms of which are so intimately related to the functions of the lungs, is almost invariably a localisation of a pre-existing inflam- matory state of the blood. There is no difliculty whatever in comprehending how an inflamed state of the blood produces this disease, or pleurisy, peritonitis, pericarditis, acute rheumatism, and other local diseases. The altered condition of the hqitor sanguinis, as respects its viscidity and tem- perature, and the increased activity of the changes in the principal morphological elements of the blnod, leads to obstructions of tlio capillaries and hypericmias. Tlie development of effete and acrimonious molecules more rapidly than they can he separated by the secreting organs, promotes this efi'ect. The stasis which occurs, as the first stage of inflanmiation, is often also the result of the in- creased attraction of the corpuscles to each other and to the walls of the vessels, and of the elective affinity which exists between the fluids and cellu- lar elements of the parenchyma and definite sub- stances in the blood. When the velocity of the circulation is reduced below the natural standard, the consistency of the blood is always increased, as seen by placing a ligature on a vein; and,in ac- cordance with this law, when a large quantity of inflamed blood is forced on an organ where the circulation in the capillaries is more or less retarded, and particularly if the capillaries have been dilated by any influence exerted on the nervous system, the result must be hyperajmia, stasis, and in- flammation. The relations which subsist between an inflamed organ and an inflamed condition of the blood are rendered more intimate by the circumstance that during hyperaemia, stasis, and inflammation, new products are often developed in the part afTected,and are carried into the blood current, and that such products are capable of exciting inflammatory com- motion in the blood. In this way hyperfemia of the internal coat of the blood-vessels may produce in- flammatory fevei'. The degree in which the mass of the blood becomes affected is in proportion to the extent of the local inflammation, or the magni- tude and number of the parts inflamed, and the amount of the products of the stagnant blood re- ceived back by the general mass, very small quan- tities merging into the general metamorphosis of the blood, or being separated with the secretions. This contrasts with the effects of contagious and fermentible principles, respecting which the con- verse is to a great extent true. (RoJcilansly.) These intimate relations are illustrated in bron- chitis, when the proportion of fibrine diminishes and the fever subsides as the acute passes into the chronic form {Simon, p. 257); and also in acute rheumatism, where the fibrine diminishes, and the fever subsides with the pain, .ind if the pain returns the fibrine and the fever again in- crease, the acuteness of the pain corresponding with the increased quantity of fibrine. {Andral and Gavarret.) In painful affections of the viscera, usually attributed to hyperemia, where the blood is healthy, there is at first no fever, and the fluid contains its normal proportion of fibrine; but the hypercemia continuing and passing into inflamma- tion, acrimonious particles are absorbed, and an in- flammatory commotion of the blood with increase of fibrine, is produced. On post mortem examination, where death has taken place whilst the blood is simply hyperinotic, and before ulterior changes, producing hydrreniia, spana;raia,or necriemia, have established themselves, fibrinous coagula are commonly met with in the heart, and in the blood-vessels of every calibre down to the capillaries. These coagula are white, or j-ellowish white, compact, and frequently enclose serum; they are susceptible of organisation or textural conver- sion, and are more frequent and more compact in the left heart, and in arterial blood, than in the right heart or venous blood. There is also lividity, great cadaveric rigidity, deep red muscles, tense, dry areolar tissue, and the decomposition of the body is retarded. {RoMimsky. Simple Fibrme Cnisis.") , Where the purely hyperinotic state of the