AMAUROSIS. 27 When the disorder is nccompanicd with dimi- nished sensibility in tlie eye in general, Beer coin- cides with IJichter, respecting the temporary im- provement of the sight after a nourishing meal, or drinking spirituous liquors; or when the patient's mind is elated with joy or niiger, though such me- lioration of sight, it is true, is but of very short duration. (Also Vetch on Din. of the Eye, p. 137.) On the other hand, it may be remarked, that every thing which tends to depress the passions and spirits, augments the imperfection of sight. "Where marks of increased sensibility prevail, the above- mentioned circumstances exercise a transient dis- advantageous operation; the patient carefully re- tires from every strong light, and frequently shelters his eye with his hand. (Lehi-e vuii den Avt/enkr. b. ii. p. 430.) Mr. Travers also knows patients, whoso vision is benefited in a high degree, and others, in whom it is much deteriorated, by the quickened circulation of a full meal, and a few glasses of wine. The former, he saj^s, are persons of spare and meagre habits ; the latter plethoric. (Si/iiopsia of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 157.) According to Beer, this amaurosis, originating with diminished sensibility of the organ, usually comes on very slowly, and commences with the visus reticulatus, or nebulosus, without any alter- nation with a blinding glare of light; and the eye- sight is sometimes considerably better, and some- times weaker, which always depends npon the accidental operation of the above internal or ex- ternal circumstances. The melioration of the eye- sight never continues long, while the diminution of it not only remains, but gets vvorse and worse. It is not at all uncommon for this species of amaurosis to make its appearance as a night blind- ness, because common artificial light is much too feeble to make due impression upon the diminished sensibility of the optic nerve, and consequently .these patients always show a partiality to a strong light. To such weak-sighted individuals, the flame of a candle, or the moon, appears as if covered by a dense veil, with an expanded halo round it of various colours. There is no complaint made of pain in the head or eyes ; and no sensation of fulness or weight is experienced in the eyeball ; much less are there any signs of the disease in the structure and form of the eye, or in the action of its irritable textures ; but, when it has been long complete, it is usually conjoined with a debilitated habit. In the simple uncomplicated species of amau- rosis, all morbid appearances are absent, so that wo are obliged to trust almost exclusively to the patient's assertion, that his sight is bad, or quite gone ; and not unfrcquently it is necessary, espe- cially in judicial cases, to employ political artifices, in order to detenu ine whether such assertion be true, particularly when the patient affirms that the blindness is restricted to one eye. In this case we shall probably be assisted in our diagnosis by the slight degree of strabismus usually present, which arises from the patient being unable to fix the diseased eye steadily on any object. This degree of strabismus is noticed by Ackermann and Fischer as the surest sign of amaurosis. (See Klinische Anmilcn imn Jena, st. i. p. And it is particularly pointed out by Kichter as an in- variable attendant upon amaurosis. The patient, says he, not only does not turn either eye towards any object, in such a manner that the object looked at is in the axis of vision, hut he doeB not turn Loth his eyes towards the same thing. This was regarded by Ilichter as the only symptom which we can trust, where implicit confidence should not be put in the mere assurance of the patient that ho cannot see, while nil the coats and humours of the eyes present their natural appearance. (See Anfangstjr. der Wundarxn. b. iii. kap. 14.) This observation is interesting to the military surgeon, amaurosis being a common affliction of soldiers, many of whom, however, endeavour to avoid service by pretending to labour under a disqualification which they well know does not necessarily produce any very consi- derable alteration on the natural appearance of the eye. There is another symptom of great value, when only one eye is quite blind, and the eyesight on the other side is perfectly undisturbed, namely, if the sound eye he very carefully covered, the pupil of the blind one immediately expands, and the ins becomes quite motionless, notwithstanding the diseased eye be exposed to t/ie strongest light possible. How- ever, this criterion is frequently wanting, because the amaurosis, unattended with any perceptible defect, except loss of vision, is seldom confined to one eye, but usually affects both. (See Lehre von den Aiigen/cr, h. ii. p. 401-82.) The gait and the cast of the eye in an amaurotic patient form another important characteristic of the disease. He advances towards us with an air of doubt and uncertainty in his movements, from, which the cataractous patient is generally exempt, and instead of converging his eyes in the natural way towards an object, it is evident that there is something vacant and unmeaning in his look, the result of the eyes being directed parallely, as if to- wards an object infinitely distant. In many cases there is oscillation, and in some the eyes stand completely fixed in the head. {Maclcenxie on Dis. of the Eye, ed. 4, p. 1022.) Imperfect movement in the lids also frequently accompanies amaurosis, and will usually indicate that the cause of the disease is such as to implicate the motor oculi and facial nerves also in the para- lysis. One of the most important incidental symp- toms of amaurosis consists in the faulty size and shape and the imperfect movements of the pupil. When the amaurosis is complete, the most fre- quent state of the pupil is that of extreme dilatation, so that a mere ring of iris may be all that is visible, and its dimensions are not altered even when the strongest light is directed upon the retina. And in the incomplete cases, the movements of the iris are sluggish, and the pupil is larger than ordinary. This is the state of numerous cases, but there are many exceptions. Sometimes, according to Richter, in the most complete and incurable cases, the pupil is of its proper size, and even capable of Iree motion (Turhes, Rectteil Periodiipm, ^-o. t. ii. p. 319): and, occasionally, it is actually smaller and more contracted than natural. This aperture often continues extraordinarily large in thc-strongest light; but, in some instances, it is uiuisuully small in every kind of light. (Arrachard, Recuoil Period, ^c. t. i. p. 273; liichter, Aifiim/sgr. c^-f. b. iii. p. 424 ; Veer, Lehre, t^-c. b. ii. p. 435.) According to the latter writer, the pupillary edge of the iris rarely has its primitive shape, being generally more or less angular ; either at some indeterminate point, or above and below, so as to resemble in some measure the pupil of the cat race; or towai'ds