I AMPUTATION. The inconvenience arising from the increasing BizD of the limb might be avoidod also, either by making two semilinuir Haps of tlie integument in- stead of dividing it circularly, or by making the usual circular division, and superadding to it a longitudinal incision upwards on each side.] Map AiHjnUation of the Thujh. — Although sur- i geons differ on tiie question, wiiether flap amputa- tion of the thigh ought to be preferred, as the I general practice, Desault's, or rather Vermale's : mode of operating, has certainly obtained the sanc- tion of many respectable names. In Guy's Hos- j pital, flap amputation of the thigh seems now to be mostly preferred. The operation has been for ! many years past adopted by my friend Mr. Vincent 1 in St Bartholomew's Hospital ; and it is the plan which is always followed by Mr. Liston in the North London Hospital. " According to the point ' of removal (says he), the direction of the flap varies. If, in operating high in the limb, the flaps be made laterally, there will be imminent risk of the bone protruding through the npper part of the wound ; for the patient uniformly raises the stump towards his abdomen. No antagonist muscular power is left to oppose the action of the muscles inserted into the trochanter minor, and the elevation of the Stump is involuntary: it always occurs to a remark- ; able extent in young persons. On this account, an- terior and posterior flaps are here preferable to the lateral; for then the more the stump is raised the better is the end of the bone covered, the anterior flap folding over it. Transfi.xion is, therefore, made horizontally, and the posterior flap should be a little i longer than the anterior. But, iji the lower part of 1 the limb, lateral flaps are not only not liable to I the same objection, but preferable to the anterior i and posterior. In the neighbourhood of the knee- • joint, the soft parts consist almost entirely of liga- I mentous tissue on the fore and back part, and : proper cushions can be obtained only from the ■ sides. Transfixion is therefore made perpendicu- larly. Thus the bone will be well covered by parts likely soon to adhere," &c. (See LislorCs Ekmenls, \ part iii. p. 394.) By Mr. Guthrie, the flap operation is considered I preferable to the circular incision at the upper part > of the thigh, "as it permits the head of the bone 1 to be removed, if found necessary; allows it to be I examined and cut shorter with greater ease, and 1 makes a much better covering afterwards." [On I Gunshot Wounds, p. 200.) In the flap amputation of the thigh, as originally 1 practised by Vennale, the operator takes hold of 1 the soft parts with his left hand, and draws them I more or less away from the bone. He then intro- duces a long sharp-pointed knife down to the an- ■ terior surface of the lemur, a few lines below the ; place where it is intended to apply the saw. The ! point is then conveyed close round the outer side • of the heme, and pushed through the skin at the I point of the back of the thigh exactly opposite that ■ of its entrance. By cutting from above downwards, : and from within outwards, the surgeon now forms ■ the external flap, which should be throe or fcnir : inches in length. It is to be held upwards by an assistant. The point of the knife is next brought I to the front angle of the woiuid, and, while the soft parts are drawn inwards, it is to be carried close round the inner side of the femur, and pushed out at the posterior angle of the wound, without injur- ing the skin there, a second time. In this way a 111 second flap is formed, of the same shape and length as the first. No retractor is necessary in this mode of amputating. Velpeau prefers making the external flap first, for two reasons : first, because the soft parts being less bulky on this side, it is proper to begin with saving a sufiiciency of them, so that the flap may be equal in size to the other; and, secondly, because the femoral artery is not cut till the moment when the flap is completed, and the vessel may^ then be instantly secured without any previous pressure being made upon it in the groin. ( Velpeau, Nouv. Elein. de Med. Oper. t, ii. p. .511.) Flap amputation of the thigh is varied by dilferent operators, some making anterior and posterior flaps, and others, like Langenbeck, not transfixing the limb, but cutting down to the bone from without inwards. Transfixion seems to me to be recom- mended by the power which it gives the surgeon of making with rapidity a capital flap. Flap amputation of the thigh, after the manner of Vermale, is preferred by Klein, Lisfranc, Liston, and many other modern surgeons. (See Edinb, Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. xiv. 36 — 46, &c.) Of seven cases in which Klein adopted this method, the greater number were healed in ten days, and the rest in three weeks; and this success determined him in future always to practise it. After this mode, he finds there is no danger of the muscles retracting themselves, and the end of the bone protruding, even though the patient be trans- ported from one place to another. With respect to the occasional difliculty of taking up the obliquely- cut vessels, Klein admits this objection, but thinks that it equally applies to Alanson's method. He lays great stress on the utility of giving due sup- port to the flaps with compresses and a roller. (See Pmctische AnsicMen dcr bedeutendsten CJii- ruiyisc/ten Opeiationen, p. 35—38, 4to. Stuttgart, 1816.) ° ' [Mr. Fergusson makes the posterior flap about two inches longer than the anterior, to compensate for the greater retractility of the muscles at the posterior part of the thigh. Mr. South believes the retraction of the posterior flap depends, not on the greater retraction of the muscles, but "on the position in which the limb is placed after the am- putation ; the hind muscles, being extended, are drawn back from the liice of the stump, whilst those in front are relaxed, and have, therefore, no dispo- sition to pull away from the stump." (Translation oi Chclius, vol. ii. p. 909.)] If the state of the integuments did not admit of two flaps being made, a single one might be formed on the inner or outer side, the front or the back part of the limb, according to circumstances. MM. Hello and Fouilloy commonly prefer making only one flap from the anterior soft parts, a method which seems to M. Velpeau to have the advantage of more certainty, than any otiicr plan, of provent- mg the protrusion of the bone, because the flap is kept over the whole extent of the wound bv its own weight. Yet ho is disposed to believe" the circular method, when well performed, preferable to all these modifications, which he would employ only as exceptions to it. {Nouv. Elan, de Med Oper. t. i. p. rAi.) In one instance, where a ball had broken the upper third of the femur, and mortification had spread so far towards the great troclumter and but- tock, that it was impossible to operate, except bv the flap operation, or by taking the head of the