910 for illustration. The eye receives a severe blow, and a sudden flash of light occurs. This is suc- ceeded by temporary blindness, after which, if the retina is not injured in its organisation, its healthy function is gradually restored. Such is the case when the brain suffers from concussion. That there are slight physical changes in the delicate nerve-cells of which the brain is formed, may be reasonably inferred, although this is incapable of proof, because patients never die of concussion without unmistakable marks of organic, lesion. Gamma's experiments on a solution of isinglass, permeated by minute threads, and contained in a glass vase, in my opinion throw no light on this subject, and cannot be admitted as explanatory of what happens to the brain when it is shaken in concussion. The cranium, especialljr in young sub- jects, is a structure which, from the peculiar ar- •rangement of its bones and its natural elasticit}', yields to a considerable extent in accidents. This anatomical condition is requisite for the defence of the soft material of which the brain is formed, especially in children, and without which the slightest blow would be followed bj' a jarring effect, and probably a laceration of the cerebral neurine. In more advanced age the skull becomes firmer and denser in proportion as the brain itself hardens. The walls of the skull having lost their former elasticity yield less under severe blows, and the brain consequently suffers more from the vibration thus readil}' propagated through the com- paratively inelastic walls of the cranium. Some important physical change must neces- sarily happen in concussion, the effect of which is certainly to alter the state of the cerebral circu- lation : this however may be regarded as an in- direct rather than as an immediate consequence. It must be borne in mind that the brain docs not completely fill the skull, and it is therefore readily driven from one side of the cranium to the other; and hence it happens that in fatal concussion we so frequently observe contusion and laceration at a part diametrically opposite the seat of the origi- nal blow. Littre, Delpech, and Sabaticr believed that the brain was capable of a sudden expansion, and that it contracted and became diminished in size immediately afterwards; and they thought they had observed tlmt in some fatal cases of con- cussion the brain had shrunk within its natural dimensions. We never saw a satisfactory instance of this, nor can we attach any importance what- ever to this fanciful notion. The observations of Mr. Hewett are well wor- thy of attention, as they tend to elucidate many points in connection with concussion of the brain, which were before involved in great obscurity. In re- ference to the fatal cases of Littre and Sabaticr al- ready referred to, and to which so much importance has been attached, he remarks that in all probabi- lity, had the post-mortem examination been more fully carried out, some serious organic lesion to the medulla spinalis would have been discovered sufti- cient to account for death, and thus the necessity for resorting to the absurd hypothesis of contrac- tion of the brain as a result of fatal concussion woidd have been avoided. He further suggests that in cases of sudden death in which the'brain IS supposed to bo the special seat of injury the cause of death may be found elsewhere: thus he mentions the case of a man who in attempting to iiU a weight on his head died suddenly of a nip- HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. ture of the heart, and remarks that the fatal ter- mination of this case, from the imperfect mode of examination formerly in use, would have been attri- buted to concussion of the brain rather than to its proper cause. An interesting case is given by Mr. Hewett of a boy who fell from a great height and was brought into St. George's Hospital with urgent symptoms of concussion, of which he died in a few hours. On examination after death there were found a small quantity of extravasated blood beneath the arachnoid of both hemispheres, and a slight bruising of the substance of the brain; but on examining the chest, the septum of the heart was found extensively lacerated. No doubt many such cases are to be met with, and a more careful inspection after death will often show other serious complications, as rup- tured liver, spleen, kidneys, or laceration of the stomach and intestines, in cases of injury to the brain. But it is not likely that such conditions will be overlooked now as they for.merlj^ were. Obscure complications occur which may elude observation, as those in which the medulla spinalis is affected, as this is a part which is frequently left miexamined after death. Mr. Hewett gives a very good illustration of this in the details of a case from the records of the Hospital of St. Antoine. A man fell from a great height on the pavement and died in a few hours. There was no trace of injury to the brain, and the case was at first set down as one of death from simple concussion of the brain. But on further examination it was found that the spinal canal was completely filled with extravasated blood, and that the extravasation had extended upwards almost into the cranium. It not imfrequently happens that an extensive fracture of the skull is regarded as a cause of death where little injury to the brain can be detected. The remark applies more particularly to fractures of the base, and no doubt there is much difficulty in coming to a correct conclusion on the subject; but we are of opinion that the fatality of such cases could be frequently explained, if a careful examina- tion of the medulla oblongata and the roots of the respiratory and other nerves were made, for in many of these cases, where there is little injury at first apparent, slight laceration and contusion of these parts so essential to the maintenance of the vital functions may bo delected. And we think, in severe concussion of the brain from falls from great height, the nerves of the iieart itself may from the general concussion become instan- taneously paralysed, and thus the cause of death may be fairly attributed to this rather than to the cerebral )njur3^ One thing has always appeared to us as very remarkable in injuries to the brain, namel}', the length of time patients live with most severe concussion accompanied by contusion and laceration of this organ. It is difficult to explain this, as in other cases a comparatively slight lace- ration induces immediate death: a pistol bullet driven into the brain will destroy life inst<anta- neouslj-, whilst a large portion of the skull-cap may be broken away and the brain extensivelj* lace- rated, and yet life may be prolonged for hours. It is most likely that in the former instance death oc- curs from the damage done to numerous important nervous centres in the transit of the ball. We think it may be fairly assumed as the result of tlie ob- servations of numerous pathologists that no fatal cases of concussion occur without leaving distinct