CONDYLOMA, causes is a kind of critical disorder. Tliere seems to be a certain portion of the body destined to perish, and no more ; of this we have an infinity of examples brought into our hospitals, where the gangrene stops at a particular point, without the least assistance from art. The same thing happens in the other species of gangrene from violent acci- dents, where the injury appears to be communi- cated to a certain distance, and no farther; though, by the way, I shall remark in this place, contrary to the received opinion, that gangrenes from these accidents (where there has been no previous strait- ness of bandage) are as often fatal, as those from internal causes. Some further remarks on this subject will be re- served for the article Mortification. Bark is given so extensively in the practice of surger}', that there are few important cases, in which, in certain circumstances, and at some period or another, it is not indicated. When persons have been weakened by a course of mercury, or by the eflfects of any disease whatsoever, moderate doses of bark will frequently be found of great ser- vice. But, it only becomes so on the principles above suggested, and, so far as my judgment ex- tends, this medicine should never be prescribed in any surgical cases in excessive and unreasonable quantities. Modern chemistry has shown that the virtues of the various kinds of cinchona reside in two salifi- able bases, or alkaline elements, termed einchonia, and qiiina, and one very desirable result of the establishment of this doctrine is that of being able to prescribe preparations, which will concentrate all the efficacy of the medicine in formulffi of mode- rate bulk, not likely at least to disorder the alimen- tary canal by the mechanical effects of quantity. The sulphate of quinine or quina, " appears to be the most efficient of all the-salts of bark. We must be careful not to combine it with substances that form insoluble compounds with it. The in- I'usum rosse comp. is objectionable as a vehicle, on account of the astringent matter which it contains, and which therefore precipitates the quina from its solution." The form, in which Dr. Paris prefers to prescribe it, is that of solution, with a mijiim of sulphuric acid to every grain of the salt. {Pliar macologia, vol. ii. p. 163.) It is frequently made into pills, with the conserve of roses, or joined with hyoscyamus, squills, opium, and other medicines. Professor Brande does not agree with Dr. Paris respecting the compound infusion of roses being an unfit vehicle for sulphate of quinine, and re- commends the subjoined formula; Jt. QuincB sul- pliatis gr. ij. Infus, rosce comp. 3xi. Ti7ict. cort. aurant. Syrupi ejusdem aa 3ss. M. ft. haustus bis in die sumendus. [The last edition of the London Pharmacopoeia contains a imchcra quince composita, which consists of a solution of the sulphate in tincture of orange peel. Each fluid drachm contains one grain of quinine.] " Although the pale bark yields chiefly einchonia, with a small quantity of quina, and the yellow quina, with a small proportion of einchonia, yet the quantities of the opposite principles are too small to give a character to the medical properties, or the chemical nature of the barks. Li the red bark of the pharmacopcBias, these salts exist together in nearly equal proportions." (See Thomson''s Ele- menii of Materia Med. p. 489, ed. 2.) CINNABAR, ARTIFICIAL {Hydrargyri sidphuretum rubrum, Hydrargyri bisulphuretum) is chiefly employed by surgeons for fumigating venereal ulcers. An apparatus is sold in the shops for this purpose. The powder is thrown upon a heated iron, and the smoke is conducted by means of a tube to the part affected. [It may also, if applied to the general surface of the body, be made the means of producing the specific effect of mercury on the sys- tem. For this it is an inferior preparation to the grey oxide, and also to the chloride (calomel). This latter has been largely employed of late years for fumigating purposes by Mr. H. Lee, in the Lock Hospital.] (See Fumigation.) CIRCUMCISION, (from circumcido, to cut round.) The operation of cutting off a circular piece of the prepuce. (See Phymosis.) CIRSOCELE,(from Ktpahs, a varix, and kIjAtj, a tumor.) Cirsocele, a varicose enlargement of the spermatic vein. (See Varicocele.) CIRSOPHTHALMIA, (from nipahs, a varix, and 6(j>ea\p.hs, the eye.) A general varicose affec- tion of the eye. CLAP. (See Gonorrhcea.) CLOACA. The openings leading through the new bony shell, in cases of necrosis, down to the enclosed dead bone are termed cloacce. COLLYRIUM. [This term is commonly em- ployed to signify a lotion used in diseases of the eye. The following are some of the formula of the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital. Besides these, however, there are other solutions, which are used as drops, for more direct application to the conjunctival surface. (See Gutt^.) CoLLYRiUM AcETi.-R. Aceli destillati, J. 5ss. : Aqu<s, J. 3VJJSS. Misce. ^ CoLLYRiUM Aluminis—I},. Alumtnis, gr. viij • Aouie /. 3i. Liqua. ■> ' i > CoLLYBiuM Aluminis Fortius. _R. Aluminis, 9i. • Aguie./ h. Liqua. i • > CoLLVRiUM Hydrargyri Oxidi (Lotio Nigra) _R Hydrargyri chloridi, gr. iv. ; Liquoris calcis. f. ij" Misce. ' COLLYRIUM Plumbi Acetatis.—R. i>/u»i6i oceto/fi, Br ij.; Aqu(e destillatcE.J. Ji. Liqua. CoLLVRiuM Plumbi cum Opio.— R. Lotionis plumbi acetaiis,/ 1] ; TincturcE opii, Wlin. Misce. COLLYRIUM ZiNCi OxiDl. —R. Zinci oxidi, gr. xxiv • Mislurce Acaciie,/. 3i.i Aguis,/. jyij. Misce. COLLYRIUM ZiNci SuLPHATis.—R. Zinci sulpfiatis, gr i.; Aqute.f.'i]. Liqua. COLLYRIUM ZiNci COM Opio.—Re. Zo/ionii xinci stil- phatis, f. l\. ; nni opii, lllv, Misce.] ,j COLPOCELE, (from KdKiros, the vagina, and Kii\7], a tumor.) A tumor or hernia, situated in the vagina. COLPOPTOSIS, (from kSXttos, the vagina, and nlwro!, to fall down.) A bearing or falling down of the vagina. (See Vagina, Prolap.sus OP.) COMPRESS, (from comprimo, to press upon.) Folded linen, lint, or other materials, making a sort of pad, which surgeons place over those parts of the body on which they wish to make particular pressure ; and for this purpose a bandage is usually applied over the compress. Compresses are termed graduated, when of a conical form, and the apex is so applied, as to make the pressure act very parti- cularly on a certain point. COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. (See Head, Injuries of.) CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN. (See Head, Injuries of.) CONDYLOMA, (from k6pSv\os, a tubercle, or knot.) [This term has been employed to denote