1054 HYDBOPHOBIA. blood is infected, it is generally considered to be settled in the negative, notwithstanding the account given by Le'mery of a dog which was attacked with rabies, as is said, from lapping the blood of a hydrophobic patient wlio had been hied. {Hist, de I'Acad. Royale des Sciences, 1707, p. 25.) Dnpuytren, Breschet, and Magendie were never able to communicate rabies by rubbing wounds with blood taken from mad dogs; and they even several times injected such blood into the veins of other healthy dogs, yet none of these latter animals were attacked with rabies, though they were kept for a sufficient length of time to leave no doubt upon the subject. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. t. xlvii. p. 63.) A point of greater practical interest than the former is, whether the drinking of the inilk of an animal labouring under rabies is attended with any risk of communicating the disease? It is asserted by Timaeus that a peasant, his wife, children, and several other persons were seized with hydrophobia in consequence of drinking the milk of a rabid cow; and that the husband and eldest child were saved by medical treatment; but that the wife and four of the children died. It is further stated that three or four months afterwards, the maid and a neighbour who had partaken of the milk of the same cow, also died of hydrophobia. (Cons. vii. Obs. 33.) In opposition to this account, however, several facts reported by other writers of greater credit, tend to prove that hydrophobia cannot be communicated by the milk of a rabid animal. (Nova Ada Nat. Cur. vol. i. obs. 55; Baudot, Mem. de la Soc. Rut/ale de Med. an 1782, t. ii. p. 91.) The cases reported by F, Hoffman and Chabert, ■with the view of proving the possibility of infection through the medium of the semen, are of no weight, because, on a critical examination of them, it will be found that the infection of the women is stated to have taken place very soon after their husbands bad been bitten, which is quite at variance with the established character of the disease, as it never commences, and of course cannot be propngated in any manner, soon after the bite. Besides, these histories are refuted by others of greater accuracy. (See Baudot, in Mem. de la Soc. Royale de M'td. an 1782, 4-c. p. 92 ; RivalLier, vol. cit. p. 136, 241; Bouteille, p. 237; Boissiere, in Journ, Gen. de Med. t. xvii. p. 296.) Neither can hydrophobia ba imparted by the breath, notwithstanding the statements of Coelius Aurelianus, and some other old writers. A nurse mentioned by Dr. J. Vaughan, repeatedly kissed a hydrophobic infant, which she had suckled, and exposed herself incessantly to its breath, but with- out the least ill effects. The fear wh ich has also been entertained of the disorder being receivable from the application of the patient's perspiration, is not founded upon any authentic facts. Does the infectious principle of rabies reside in the salivary secretion, or in the mucus of the tra- chea and bronchi ? The common belief is, that in hydrophobia, the salivary glands are considerably affected. But it has been remarked by a modern writer, that if these glands exhibit no morbid al- teration during the whole course of the disorder; if they are found heiilthy after death; if the air pas- sages are the seat of inflammation; if the saliva Qoes not constitute the frothy slaver about the lips; aim It such slaver, wherewith the disease may be communicated by inoculation, is derived from the inflamed windpipe and bronchi, and consists of mucus converted into a kind of foam by the con- vulsive manner in which the patient breathes" there is some reason for questioning whether the saliva, strictly so called, undergoes the alteratina generally supposed. (See Did. des Sciences Mid. t. xlvii. p. 66.) However, this writer is not exactly correct when he describes the frothy secretion about the month, as being altogether composed of mucug from the trachea, since a great part of it is un- questionably true saliva and mucus secreted in the fauces and mouth. In the stomachs of dogs which died rabid, Dr. Gillman constantly observed traces of inflammation, and he once tried to communicate the disease to two rabbits, by inoculating them with matter taken from the pustules found in the stomach of a rabid dog, but no infection took place, {On the Bite of a Rabid Animal, p. 32.) According to Professor Rossi, of Turin, the nerves before they grow cold, participate with the saliva in the property of communicating rabies. He asserts thathe once imparted the disease by inserting in a wound a bit of the sciatic nerve immediately after it had been taken from a living rabid cat, (See Mem.de VAcad. imp. de Turin, Sciencesphys, et mathcm. de 1805 a, 1808, part xciii. de la No- tice des Travaua'.") After all which has been stated concerning the hj-pothesis of the infectious principle of hydro- phobia being more or less diffused through the solids and fluids of a rabid animal, and not being restricted to the saliva, perhaps the safest conclusion to be made is, not to reject the opinion altogether, but to consider it at present requiring further proof. And from observations of what happens in the human subject,the same inference should notalwaj'S be drawn as from experiments on animals which are liable to be attacked with spontaneous rabies of a decidedly infectiouscharacter. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. t. xlvii. p. 67.) [That no unexceptionable in- stance has been afforded of the communication of hydrophobia by man to man, although the devotion of friends and relatives in so many hundred cases must have offered so many opportunities, must be taken as a strong ground for the belief that the human saliva in hydrophobia is not hurtful to our species.] Although many cases are to be met with in the records of Medicine and Surgery, tending to con- vey an idea that the mere application of the saliva of a rabid animal to the sound entire skin of the human subject, may give rise to hydrophobia, the assertion is contrary to general experience, and liable to a reflection which must overturn the hy- pothesis, viz. the slightest prick, scratch, abrasion, or broken pimple on the surface of the body, such as would not be likely, in nianj' instances, to excite notice, may render the application of the saliva to the part a positive inoculation. Instances are also reported, the tenor of wliicli is to prove that the hydrophobic virus may take effect through a sound mucous membrane. {Pul- jnaiius de Morbis Contag.; Portal, Obt: surla R".<?h p.l 31; Matthieu, in M^m. de la Soc. Royale de p. 310, &c.) But, that this does not happen in the human subject, is tolerably well proved, by tl" consideration that formerly a class of men made it their business to suck the wounds caused by the bites of rabid animals, yet none of them contracted hydrophobia from tliisbold emploj'inent. {BosgutUch Mem, de la Soc. d'Enmlaiion, t. v, p. 1, 7.) The