614 end of a common silver prohe is then to be dipped m the sulphuric acid, and rubbed over the coujunc- t.va, so that every part of it may be touched with the acid. The round point of the probe is to be carried as far as where tlie membrane begins to be reflected over the eyeball, but no further. The punctum lachiymale, caruncle, and semilunar fold are to be avoided ; but the external angle, as well as every other part, except what is reflected over the eye, is to be carefully rubbed. The acid will turn the touched portion of the conjunctiva white ; and in order to prevent the acid from affecting the' e3'eball, a stream of water is now to be'directed over the eyelid with an elastic gum syringe. If the conjunctiva should not be turned sufficiently white, the application may be repeated. The use of the acid is to be repeated every fourth day ; "and, when applied in the manner directed, it does not cause a slough, but a general contraction of the part, which is, however, only perceptible after two or three applications, by its effect in in- verting the lid, which gradually begins to take place. After six or eight applications, the cure ■will be more than half accomplished, and, in most cases of this species of aversion, the thickening of the conjunctiva will have subsided." The ung. zinci is to be constantly applied to the skin, and the ung. hydrarg. nitr. in the proportion of one part to four or six of the ung. cetacei, to the edge of the eyelid. After the eyelid has returned two-thirds of the way towards its natural position, the inter- vals between the applications of the acid must be longer, lest the contraction within the ej'elid be carried too far, and an inversion of it produced. After the eversion has been cured, the lippitudo may yet partly remain, and demand the use of the ung. hyrdrarg. nitr., or other gentle stimulants.— {C. Bader.) See /Scarpa, Osservazioni sulle Malattie deffli Occhi; ed. 5. cap. vi. Richter's Anfangsgr. der ■Wundarzneykunst, b. ii. p. 473, &c. Pellier, llecueil d'Obs. sur les Maladies des Yeux. Sir W. Adams Pract. Observ. on Ectropion, or Eversion of the Eye- lids, with a Description of a new Operation for the Cure of that Disease; on the Modes of forming- an artificial Pupil ; and on Cataract, 8vo. Lond. 1812. M. Bordenave, M(5moire dans lequel on propose un nouveau Proc^de pour trailer le Renversenient des Paupieres, in M^m. de I'Acad. Royale de Chirurgie, t. xlii. p. 156. et seq. 6dit. 12mo. It was in this memoir, that the proposal of removing; a portion of the inside of the eyelid for the cure of ectropion was first made. P. J. Roux, Parall^Ie de la Chirurgie An- glaise avec la Chirurgie Franjaise, p. 289—292. Paris, 1815. G. J. Beer, Lehre von den Augenkrankheiten, b. n. p. 133. &c. 8vo. Wien, 1817. Benj. Travcrs, Synopsis of the Dis. of the Eye, p. 234. 356, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1820. Demours, Traitd des Mai. des Yeux, p. 98. G.J. Guthrie, Lectures on the Operative Surgery of the Eye, 8vo. Lond. 1823. Win. Lawretice, On Diseases of the Eye, p. 349, 8vo. Lond. 1833. Wm. Mackenzie, On Dis. of the Eye, p. 207. ed. 2. 8vo. Lond. 1833. R. Middlemore, On Dis. of the Eye, vol. 1. p. 120 ; vol. ii. p. 782, 8vo. Lond. 1835. [Mackenzie, On the Diseases of the Eye, edit. 4, 1854. Desmarres, Traits Thcorique, &c., edit. 2. Paris, 1855.] EMPHYSEMA. ECZEMA, or ECZESMA (from iK^ic^, to boil out), is characterised by an eruption of small ve- sicles on various parts of the skin, usually close, or crowded together, with little or no inflammation round their bases, and unattended by fever. It is not contagious. {Balemans Synojms, p. 250. ed. 3.) Ihere are several varieties of this disease, the most remarkable of which is the eczema rubritm from tlie irritation of mercurj-. This form is attended witli quickened pulse luid a white tongue; but the stomach and sensorium arc not materially disturbed (See Meucury.) EFFUSION, in surgery, means the passage of any fluid out of the vessel, or viscus, naturally containing it, and its lodgment in another cavity the cellular tissue, or the substance of parts. Thus when the chest is wounded, blood is sometimes effused from the vessels into the cavity of the pleura; in false aneurism, the blood passes out of the artery into the cellular tissue; in retention of unne, this fluid, after a time, flows from the bladder and urethra into the cellular tissue of the perina;um and scrotum; and, when great violence has been applied to the skull, blood is often effused upon, or m the substance of, the brain. Effusion also sometimes signifies the separation of fibrine or a serous fluid from the vessels by the process of secretion, or some action of the vessels amdogoua to it. (See EXTRAVAS.ATIO.V.) ELECTRICITY. Among the aids of surgery-, electricity once held a conspicuous and important situation. It has, however, met with a fate, not unusual with remedies too much cried up and too indiscriminately employed; that of having fallen into an undeserved degree of neglect. AVhatever its effects may be on the sj'stem, it certainly pos- sesses this advantage over other topical remedies, that it may be made to act on parts very remote from the surface. Electricity, as a topical remedy for surgical diseases, is chiefly tried in amaurosis, deafness, some chronic tumours, and abscesses, weakness from sprains, or contusions, paralysis, &c. In suspended animation, electricity is some- times an important auxiliary for the restoration of the vital functions. (See J. Curry's Obs. on Ap- parent Death, <^c. ed. 2, 1815.) ELEVATOR. An instrument for raising de- pressed portions of the skull. Besides the common elevator, now generally preferred by all the best operators, several others have been" invented ; as, for instance, the tripod elevator, and another, which was first devised by J. L. Petit, and afterwards improved by M. Louis. EMBROCATION. (See Linimentum.) EMBRYOTOMIA (from l^epvov, the fcetus, and r(//,va!, to cut). The operation of cutting into the womb, in order to extract the fcetus. (See CESAREAN Operation.) EMPHYSEMA {iv, into, fvac'a, I inflate). A swelling produced by the presence of atmo- spheric air, or of any other gaseous fluid, which has insinuated itself into, or been formed in, the cellular tissue. Emphysematous swellings are divided into two classes ; one, the traumatic, in which they originate from a wound of some part of the organs of respiration; and another, the idio- pathic or spontaneous, where they proceed eitner from chemical decomposition, or from secretion or internal pathological causes, the nature of which is obscure. In the latter class have been arranged emphysema of tlie lungs, a subject on which the researches of Laonnec throw important light; and certain cases, where, in consequence of decomposi- tion, gas is found under the mucous membrane of the digestive canal. (See L, J. Begin in Did. de Med et de Chir. Pratiques, t, vii. art. JSmphy- seino.) With regard to traumatic emphysema, or that originating from a breach in the air-passnges, some- times it arises from a manifest, or concealed wound of the lungs, bronchi, trachea, or larynx ; some-