_ .GLAUCOMA the lens evidently becomes opaque, acquiring a sea- green hue, and the cataracta viridis, or glaucoma- tosa, now swells and appears to project forwards into the anterior chamber. The pain then becomes more incessant and violent; the varicose affection of the eyeball seriously increases; and the eyesight, which began hourly to diminish from the moment •when the pupil was first observed to be in any de- gree expanded and opaque, and the iris motionless, is now so entirely destroyed, that not the slightest perception of external light remains, though the patient may vainly congratulate himself on discern- ing luminous appearances produced within the eye itself, in the form of a fiery, shining circle, especi- ally when the organ is gently pressed upon. An eye in this condition (says Beer) has really a look as if it ■were dead, the cornea being as flaccid and void of lus- tre as in a corpse. Finally, when these symptoms Lave attained their utmost pitch, an atrophy of the eyeball follows, and the painful sensations about the organ cease. In corpulent individuals, however, they still continue with greater violence. Sooner or later, the other eye is also attacked with arthritic iritis, or ophthalmia, or becomes affected with glau- coma, which is ushered in by violent and incessant headache. (Bee?; LeJire von den AugenJtrankkeiten, b. i. p. 581, &c. 8vo. Wien, 1813.) According to this author, glaucoma and the green cataract are never the consequences of any description of oph- thalmia, but what he terms arthrilic. (b. ii. p. 255. Wien, 1817.) Mr. Lawrence inclines to Beer's opinion ; for, he observes, that glaucoma appears to him to be a chronic form of arthritic inflamma- tion of the internal tunics ; and, he adds, that it certainly occurs more frequently in gouty persons than others. {On Bis. of the Eye ed. iii. p. 495.) I have stated that glaucoma is usually regarded as an opacity of the vitreous humour. The following, however, were the particulars observed by Dr. Mackenzie in the dissection of several glaucomatous eyes. 1. The lens of a yellow, amber, or reddish brown colour, especially towards its centre ; its consistence firm, and its transparency perfect, or nearly so. In some cases, however, the reddish brown colour of the central part of the posterior lamellae was so deep as considerably to impair its transparency. The part in question was also drier than natural. 2. The vitreous humour in a fluid state; perfectly pellucid, colourless, or slightly yellow: no trace of hyaloid membrane. 3. The choroid coat, and especially the portion of it in contact with the retina, of a light brown colour, with little or no appearance of pigmentum nigrum. 4. In the retina, no trace of limbus luteus, or foramen centrale. [Dr. Mackenzie attributes the greenish appear- ance of the deep-seated parts of the ej'e in glaucoma, to the^ first of these changes, viz.: the amber or yellowish brown colour of the lens, and states that m some incipient cases this was the only change that could be detected on dissection. The glauco- matous lens, viewed in its natural situation, seems of a greenish, sometimes of a deep sea-green colour, laken out of the eye, all greenness is gone, both in ttie eye deprived of its crystalline, and in the iens under examination. In glaucoma, then, the iens uis become in a certain sense diplo-chromatic. of on ''■"■'^^^ humour, which is also a alvJn T"'!' glaucoma, have the power of blue anf t ''^h'' absorbing the violet, »"ue, and red rays, leaving the yellow and green rays but little affected, so that they are disperse i whence results the apparently green appearance • the humours. {On Dis. of the Eye, ed. iv. p. 897 This author, however, thinks that in the later stages of the disease the Jens may become opaque and cataractous, as well as glaucomatous, constitu- tmg the cataracta viridis or glaucomatosa of Beer ] In some other cases which Mr. Middlemore had an opportunity of dissecting, the vitreous humour was of a yellow tinge, as remarked by Scarpa in his examinations ; and the lens had undergone no other alteration than such as generally take's place in advanced life, being of a green, deep yellow or amber. The vitreous humour was not much in- creased in quantity. The choroid pigment was in a great measure absent; and the septa of the hyaloid membrane were absorbed. See Middle- more on Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 7.) This gentleman describes two varieties of glau- coma : first, that which occurs in old age, and is productive of mere impairment of vision, without any material degree of pain, and, as he believes, without any inflammation ; but in which the trans- parency of the vitreous humour is alwaj-s dimi- nished, and its colour altered, either to a yellowish or greenish tinge. Secondly, that vai-iety which takes place from inflammation of the septa of the vitreous humour, which is marked by symptoms of a more or less severe character ; is often attended with chronic inflammation of other deeply seated textures, and usually leads to the total destruction of vision. Hence, says Mr. Middlemore, the ap- pearances of the membranes and humours will not always be the same. In Mr. Lawrence's valuable treatise are collected the particulars of other dissections of glaucomatous eyes by Walther, Eble, and Rosas. In the eyes of a man examined by Walther, the lens and viti-eous humour were in the normal state, and perfectly transparent. In the retinas were numerous black and partly reddish spots, roundish, and of various size. In a glaucomatous eye dissected by Eble, the covering of the uvea was reddish brown, instead of the usual dark pigment, The vessels of the choroid were varicose in several places ; and the pigment, which was much lighter than natural, had disappeared in several places. The retina was extraordinarily soft, tlie lens was small, firm, and of amber colour, and its capsule was par- tially opaque. The whole vitreous humour had a yellowish tint ; and there were scattered through it twenty or thirty points of a grej-, brownish green, or sea-green colour. In another case, that of a man of 70, who had frequently experienced arthritic inflammation of the eyes, the vitreous humour was partially thickened, and firmer. The retina exhibited some varicose enlargements, and it was of a dark grey colour. On this part of the subject, Mr. Lawrence offers the following judicious reflections : " From the preceding pathological facts, we may conclude that the vitreous humour is not originally and esscntiall}' the seat of glaucoma ; we may perhaps draw the further inference that affections, in some respects different, are included under that term. When we consider the numerous gradations between the acute internal arthritic optlialmia which destroys sight at once, and the imperfection of vision which conies on in glaucoma, properly so called ; also that the difference of morbid changes may be expected, according to the stage of the