IIES OF THE. 929 HEAD, INJU] 3 0 pulse was slow, the irides immovable ; grinding of the teeth and slight jactitation were present; there was no stertor ; when pressure was made over tlie temporal region, he evinced the faintest signs of sen- sibility. His urine and freces passed involuntarily. It became a question as to the propriety of applying the trephine; but, in the absence of hemiplegia, tlie case was regarded as one of concussion with lace- ration rather than of compression. The operation was therefore not performed. On examination after death, no hajmorrhage was found above or beneath the dura mater. The surface of the cere- brum was generally contused. The corpus callosum, septum lucidum, and fornix were completely broken up. By active treatment, especially by the free ab- straction of blood, the symptoms are often miti- gated, but as, in the generality of cases, no per- manent relief can be afforded, the symptoms in- crease in intensity until death closes the scene; this more generally occurs very soon after the acci- dent, or life may be prolonged for four or five days. The most fatal forms of laceration are those occurring at the base of the brain, or from the introduction of blunt-pointed instruments through the cranial bones, and where no exit is afforded for the escape of the broken-up brain; never- theless, fractures of the base, accompanied by the discharge of cerebral matter through the ear, occa- sionally recover, and in lacerations of the surface of the brain,; if the bone is extensively commi- nuted, and if the damaged brain can be readily squeezed through the opening, recovery may occur. In such cases, therefore, it is most desirable to remove any comminuted or angular portions of the bone, so that, as the blood is poured into the cere- bral substance, or as it becomes swollen from inflammation, it may readily escape through the opening, and pressure may thus be obviated. In thus presenting the symptoms of laceration of the brain, we cannot but admit that they are not individually to be received as characteristic; and the sign most to be depended upon, namely, convulsions, frequently exists in simple concus- sion, and is often absent when the brain is la- cerated. Mr. Banner, in a paper published in the Provincial Medical and Surgical Transactions, 1841, has detailed seven cases of lacerated brain, in five of which convulsions were present, and in two nothing of the sort was remarked, and in these latter cases death took place soon after their admission; from which the conclusion is reason- able, that an absolute and entire paralysis of the white or conducting fibres of the cerebral tissue took place, so that the irritating effects of the laceration could not be propagated to the motor nerves. In some cases, certainly of rare occur- rence, symptoms are at first absent altogether, ))iit they speedily set in. Mr. W. Sharp, of Bradford, in a work published some years ago, has given a remarkable instance of this in a man " who was driving a heavily laden cart; ho was knocked down, and apparently the wheel nf his own cart passed over liis head, producing nn extensive compound fracture over the left eye. When seen a few hours after the accident, several portions of brain were lying on his cheek, and others were matted with liis hair. Yet this poor man had got up by himself, had driven his cart, when almost dark, nearly a quarter of a mile to its station, had emptied it of its materials, and had taken others into it instead; he had afterwards driven it home some hundred yards to his own house, and Iiad gone into his house for the key of the stable, before he became sick. He was then helped into bed, and remained there till I saw him. Before I saw him, he had one or two violent convulsions, and became extremely restless. The injury done to the brain was frightful. I removed the splin- tered bones, and placed a little dry lint over the wound, and he became much more tranquil. Tho next day I was not without hope of his recovery, but the day following the convulsions returned, and he shortly afterwards expired." The jJrognosis is necessarily unfavourable, espe- cially if the mischief is at the base of the brain, and if the cerebellum is lacerated. Morgagni alludes to two instances only on record of recovery after violent wounds of the cerebellum. Guthrie says: " The result of my experience is that brain is more rarely lost with impunity from the fore part of tlie head than from the middle part; and that a fracture of the skull, with even the lodg- ment of a foreign body and a portion of the bone in the brain, may be sometimes borne without any great inconvenience in the back part." (Op. cit.) But even in the worst cases we ought not to de- spair of a favourable issue, provided a free exit can be given to the damaged brain. The general treatment of lacerations of the brain must be strictly anti-inflammatory until suppura- tion is established or hernia cerebri occurs, when due constitutional support should be given. But the local treatment is a matter of the highest im- portance to attend to. All comminuted bone must be sedulously removed, and the trephine or Hey's saw must be employed to remove spicula and angular projections of bone, which are likely to impede the exit of the broken-up brain or be- come the occasion of irritation. All foreign Ijodies should be carefully removed, if this can be accom- plished without violence or the risk of increasing the injury by pushing them further into the brain. More especially this should be at once, and at all hazard accomplished, if convulsions or other cere- bral disturbance arise. To show the importance of the removal of fo- reign bodies from the brain as speedily as pos- sible, the following case is quoted from the Edin- burgh Medical and Surgical Journal : — "A. farmer was wounded in the head by the breech- pin of his gun, which was blown out in the discharge of his piece. It was driven through his hat, and, piercing the os frontis, entered the brain about an inch and a half above tho edge of the orbit, carrying before it a circular piece of the hat and several splintered pieces of bone. He was knocked down and stimned by the blow, but he soon recovered suflicicntly to walk, with little assistance, to the nearest residence. lie was after- wards conveyed homo a distance of two miles. When first scon by the surgeon, the breech-pin had been withdrawn from the skull by tlie re- moval of the hat; and as there appeared to be no bleeding, a piece of sticking-plaster was laid over the wound to exclude the air. In ton minutes he was seized with a distinctly marked fit of epilepsy, which ceased immediately on the removal of the plaster, under which a little oozing of blood had taken place, the slight pressure of which had dis- turbed the functions of the brain. Tiio fractured pieces of the bone were removed, and at tho depth