256 AN " Tlie intention in this operation is to divide tlio intestine, from the verge of the anus, iip as high as the top of tlie liollow in whicli the matter was formed ; thereby to h\j the two cavities of tlie gut and abscess into one, and by means of an open wound, instead of a hollow or sinuous sore, which serves for the lodgment of matter, to obtain a firm and lasting cure.'" {Poll, op. cit. p. 38.) The operation, however, is elfectual partly on another principle, first particularly explained by Sir Ben- jamin Brodie. The division of the sphincter muscle had indeed been insisted upon by others (see Chelitts, Ilandb. der Chir. h. i.); but the prin- ciple of its utility had not been duly pointed out. " When the abscess is laid open, the fibres between it and the bowel must be divided ; and the sphincter muscle being thus set at liberty, not only is there a free and ready escape for the matter, but the action of the muscle, which prevents the healing of the abscess, is put an end to. This then is the mode of curing the abscess: lay it open into the bowel, dividing at the same time the fibres of the sphincter muscle, which lie over it." (Brodie.) When a discharge of the matter by incision is too long delayed or neglected, the abscess makes iis own way out, by bursting somewhere near to the fundament, or through the intestine into its cavity; or sometimes in both directions. In either case the discharge is made sometimes by one orifice only, and sometimes by more. It is seldom that there is more than one orifice communicating with the interior of the bowel, although there may be several openings externally upon the integuments; but commonly these open- ings are only so many distinct burstings of the skin covering the matter, and all, be they few or man}', lead and open immediately into the one single abscess. Authorities differ as to the mode in which these abscesses originate :— In 1820, some interesting remarks on this sub- ject were published in France by M. Ribes, de- duced from the dissection of not less than seventy- five persons, who had died with fistulse. The doctrine started by M. Ribes was that a fistula is formed by the bursting of <an internal pile into the rectum, and the conseq^uent passage of a portion of the contents of the bowel into tlie orifice. Now this is not the common mode in which an abscess near the anus is occasioned ; yet it sometimes happens as an exception to the common course of things. According to M. Ribes, the orifice _ is ahvays within five or six lines above the junction of the internal membrane of the bowel with the external skin, and may usually be seen if the patient forces the gut gently down, as in going to stool. This account of the common situation of the internal opening, when the abscess communicates v/ith the bowel, agrees with the observations of Sabatier, Larroy, and Chelius. (See Recherchcs sur la situation de I'Orifice interna de la Fistule de I'Anus, %c.; Quarterly Jouni. of Foreign Med. No. 8, Oct. 1820; Larrey, in Mem. de Chir. Mil. t. iii. p. 415; Chelius, Ilandb. der Chir. b. i. p. 677. 8vo. lleidclb. 182G.) [Sir B. Brodie believes that "the disease is originally an ulcer of the mucous membrane of tlie bowel, c.\-tendiiig thro\igh tlio muscular tunic into the celluhir niembranc external to tlie intes- tine. It is admitted," he observes, " by every one, that in the greater number of cases of fis- tula; in ano, there is an inner opening to the gut, as well as the outer opening; and I am satisfied that the inner opening ahvays exists, because I scarcely ever fail to find it, now that I look for it in the proper place, and seek it carefully. I have, in a dead body, examined the parts where fistula; had existed, several times, and in every instance I have found an inner opening to it. This affords a very reasonable explanation of the formation of these abscesses ; it is almost impossible to under- stand, on any other ground, why suppuration should take place in the vicinity of the rectum, more than in any other part of the body, and why the cellu- lar membrane there should suppurate more than cellular membrane elsewhere." Sir B. Brodie thinks that the most common cause of abscess of this kind, is the lodgment of hard fa;oes in the bowels : by the straining that takes place to expel them, the raucous membrane gets torn or abraded at one part, and then the passage of the fasces causes idceration. Some time afterwards straining again occurs, and themuscul-ir tunic gives way, and the faeces escape into the cellular texture. He believes the inner orifice is always situated immediately above the sphincter muscle, just the part where the faeces are liable to be stopped, and where an ulcer is most likely to ex- tend through both the tunics. (See Lancet, vol. i. 1843—4i, p. 530.) Mr. Syme, on the other hand, afiirms positively', that " the mucous membrane always remains en- tire in the first instance, and is never perforated until after suppuration has taken place." He thinks that, in the first place, a collection of matter is formed between the integuments near the anus and the mucous coat of the rectum, but that " the contents of the abscess bj-- far most frequently escape by an aperture through the external integu- ment. This opening is usually very small, often hardlv perceptible : and if the cavity be examined after the contents have been discharged, the mu- cous membrane will be found completeU' denuded, to more or less extent, at the distance of an inch, or a little further, from the anus. As the matter, in order to get into this situation, would, if origi- nally deposited externally to the sphincter, have to penetrate between the muscular fibres, its forma- tion probably takes place in connection with the inner coat of the bowel whence it proceeds out- wards, overcoming the obstacles opposed to its pro- gress in this direction, instead of pursuing an in- ward course, in opposition to the general tendency which loads to the external surface of the body."— " If the disease be still permitted to pursue its course unchecked, a small aperture is, sooner or later, formed also through the thin denuded part of the mucous membrajie of the rectum. It may seem surprising that this second opening should be formed after the matter has procured vent elsewhere ; but there can be no doubt as to the fact; and it agrees completely with what is observed to iiappen in the case of abscesses situated in the neighbourhood of the .urethra, which, after their evacuation, wiiether spontaneous or artificial, often discharge purulent matter alone for a time, and then urine also. The true explanation, in both cases, probably is, tiiat the matter, from not escaping with perfect freedom, accumulates in the cavity, so as to cause sufficient pressure for inducing ulceration of tlic denuded membrane. It is very seldom that a fistula ol more than two months' standing will be found not