^^'^ HEAD, TN.TrTRTRS OF THK that fatal form of blood-poison now recomised under tne term pyaemia. Contused Wounds of tU Scalp.—Ouv remarks nave been thus far confined to cases of lacerated wounds of the scalp, and there is little to add on the subject of contused wounds: in fact, our observations on the latter class of cases have been in a great measure anticipated, for many of the most serious forms of lacerated wounds are accompanied by a great degree of contusion. It will necessarily happen that where the scalp is much contused there is a greater liability to slough than in the preceding class of cases, and, where sloughing occurs to any extent, there is a risk of troublesome hajmorrhage. The local treatment requires some modification, as the em- ployment of pressure at the part, and cold ap- plications, are inadmissible; but sutures and light warm-water dressings may be used with a g'^eater probability of success. Hemorrhage also, which IS very apt to occur during the sloughing process, may become exceedingly troublesome, and can rarely be arrested by pressure: indeed, pressure to the part the seat of haemorrhage would only tend to increase the bleeding by favouring the sloughing process. Under such circumstances, and where it is difficult to recognise the source of the hcemorrhage, we may adopt the plan pursued under somewhat similar circumstances by Mr Hewett, who carefully pressed upon each main artery of the scalp in succession, and thus disco- vered the trunk whence the bleeding proceeded, and then, by the application of pressure on the trunk itself, he succeeded in arresting troublesome hajmorrhage. If pressure does not stop the bleed- ing, a free incision must be made through the sloughing to the sound scalp in the direction of the bleeding vessel, and the artery must be secured with a ligature.] the ac SO' for Contusion op the Bones, [In considering all doubtful injuries 'of cranial bones, the surgeon must take into count the varied degrees of thickness and lidity in the crania of different individuals, it is_ well known that there is great difference in this respect, and that, if we examine carefully a large number of calvaria, we shall probably not find two exactly of the same thickness. This is well understood by all practical anatomists, and suggests at once a cause for the great diversity in the consequences of contusions of the skull in dif- ferent persons. The comparative thickness and elasticity of the bones of children, and especially of infants, should also be well considered; nor ought the different degrees of thickness in different regions of the same skull to escape our observation. Con- tusion of the bones may happen without laceration ot the scalp, or any detachment of the pericranium or dura mater, and such contusions are often fol- lowed by very serious consequences. In severe cases the pericranium is broken up or detached altogether, as where a bullet directed obliquely against the cranium has traversed a largo ex- tent ot the exterior of the skull, and made its ap- pearance at a spot remote from the point at which 1 >(T , P'^^'^^'^'ed the scalp: the pericranium then to n IZ' ' and is generally detached such i.» °' In niilitary surgery such cases are not uncommon, However severe the contusion, the bone may still retain its vitality, and the scalp may re- unite to the subjacent bone, even if the Deri- cranium Itself is detached; but if the dura mater is at the same time separated from the bone, the lat- er necessarily perishes. The surgeon, however, in the absence of symptoms of cerebral mischief en- deavours to procure a speedy reunion, where the scalp 13 raised, by a careful adaptation of the parts- and, in young and healthy subjects especially, fur- ther inconvenience need not be anticipated. If however, suppuration occurs beneath the scalp over the contused bone, as, for instance, in the track of a ball, death of bone generally happens, and the surgeon expects its exfoliation. Necrosis may , nevertheless be still confined to the outer table of the skull, and may take place only to a trifling ex- tent; but, in old and cachectic subjects, death of bone frequently happens after contusion, and re- peated attacks of erysipelas, gradually diminishing the already enfeebled powers of the patient, protract the cure indefinitely, or lead to fatal suppuration on the dura mater. The treatment of contusion of the bones of the skull should be mUdly anti- inflammatory at first, to be followed 'by generous and even stimulating diet, and no local applications are preferable to the constant use of warm-water dressings. Contusion of the skull-bones may be limited to the external table, or it may extend to the diploe, or it may involve the inner table of the skull at the same time. So also necrosis, as the result of the injury, may be limited to the outer table, or it may involve the inner table simulta- neously. In by far the greater number of cases the outer table is alone affected, and the dead portion becomes readily separated by the agency of the ad- jacent living vessels, assisted materially by those of the diploe. This latter part, being very vascular, becomes a very important agent in the separation of the outer table of the skull, for the granulations springing from it may be seen almost to lift the dead portion from the subjacent part, and thus as- sist its removal; or it may be sometimes seen that irregular apertures are made through the dead bone, and, the granulations shooting through these openings, a gradual crumbling takes place, by which the dead part is removed without any decided ex- foliation. The death of the inner, which often accom- panies that of the outer, table seldom takes place to the same extent. The fact is not uninteresting, as in some measure illustrating the cause of death of the inner table, which we believe to arise fre- quently in consequence of its vascular communica- tion with the dura mater having been broken up at the time of the accident. In the examinations which we have made after death in cases of severe contusion of the bones with fatal injury to the brain, we have frequently seen very slight effusions of blood between the bone and the subjacent mem- brane at the seat of injury; and there "is no doubt, although it often happens that such limited effusions are absorbed and the bone lives, that this is not in- variablyso, and the inner table occasionally dies from being thus deprived of its source of nutrition from the meningeal vessels. Tliat the inner table dies also, as a consequence of the extension of the injury from without, there can be no doubt whatever, r In cases of contusion of the bones of the skull, with effusions of blood beneath the scnlP)