534 DISLOC ATION. the radius to the ulna usually remains entire, but it may he lacerated : in which case, even when the bones are reduced, it is difficult to keep thera in their proper places, as the radius tends constantly to quit the ulna. [According to Sir A. Cooper,thisaccident usually happens in a fall, when a person puts out his hand to save himself, tlie arm not being perfeolly extended, so that the bones are forced back behind the axis of the OS humeri, by the pressure of the whole weight of the body upon them. {On Dislocations, p. 441.) According to Bichat, the dislocation is produced in consequence of a forced extension of the fore-arm upon ilie arm. Thus, in a fall, the hand comes to tlie ground, and the fore-arm, fully extended upon the arm, receives the whole weight of the body ; the humerus, then pressing forcibly upon the an- terior ligament, ruptures it, together with the in- ternal lateral ligament, and passes in front of the coronoid process of the ulna. It has been known to happen, also, from a blow on the anterior sur- face of the fore-arm, just below the elbow joint, the blow in this case driving the bones of the fore- arm directly backwards from the humerus;and in like manner, a blow on the posterior surface of the humerus, the hand being fixed, may project the hu- merus directly forwards upon the bones of the fore- arm. M. Malgaigne's views of the mechanism of themodeofproductionof thisdislocation are peculiar, and diifer from those of most other surgeons. He thinks it takes place during slight flexion of the fore-arm, by a movement of torsion of the fore- arm inwards and backwards upon the humerus, as in a fall on the elbow more or less separated from the body, or a fall in which the whole inner side of the fore-arm strikes against the ground. (See Traite des Fract. Sfc. vol. ii. p. 574.)] The fore-arm is in a state of half flexion, and every attempt to extend it produces acute pain. The situation of the olecranon, with respect to the condyles of the humerus, is changed. The olecranon, which, in the natural state, is placed on a level with the external condyle, which is itself situated lower than the internal, is even higher than the latter. Posteriorly a considerable projection is formed by the ulna and radius, and on each side of the olecranon a hollow appears. A considerable hard swelling is felt on the fore part of the joint, arising from the projection of the lower end of the humerus. The hand and fore-arm are supine, and the power of bending the joint is in a great measure lost. (Sir Astlei/ Cooper, On Dislocations, p. 468.) [The supination of the hand is denied by Mal- gaigne, who says he has never observed it, but, on the contrary, he has usually found it in a marked condition of pronation. The same sur- geon remarks, tliat the fore-arm can usually be readily moved in pronation or supination ; and in some subjects it can be extended even beyond the straight line, while in others complete extension is impossible. It is the movement of flexion which is especially interfered with, and it is sel- dom that the arm can be bent to a right angle without severe pain. But a movement altogetlier unnatural, and seldom wanting during the first twenty-four hours, is that by which the humerus and fore-arm can be balanced laternll}' one upon the other. The head of tlio radius can bo felt behind tlio external condyle, rolli)ig upon tlic ulna >n pronation and supination, and by pressing with the finger upon its upper surface, its cup-shaped depression with its rounded border can be recog- nised.] The swelling which supervenes in twenty-four hours after the accident may obscure the diagnosis; but, notwithstanding the assertion of Boyer, I believe the olecranon and internal condyle are never so concealed, that the distance between them cannot be felt to be increased. It is true, that the friction of the coronoid process against the humerus may cause a grating noise, similar to that of a fracture ; and some attention is requisite to establish the diagnosis between a fracture of the lower end of the humerus, and a dislocation of the fore-arm backwards. " This dislocation (says Sir Astley Cooper) is at first sometimes undiscovered in consequence of the great tumefaction, which immediately succeeds the injury ; but this circum- stance does not prevent the reduction, even at the period of several weeks after the accident ; for I have known it thus reduced by bending the limb over the knee, even without great violence being employed." {On Dislocations, £(c. p. 470.) A luxation backward must be attended with serious injury of the surrounding soft parts. The lateral ligaments are constantly ruptured, and sometimes the annular ligament of the radius. In a case, dissected by Sir Astley Cooper, the annular ligament was entire. The biceps muscle was only slightly put upon the stretch ; but the brachialis was excessively so. Probably the lower insertions of the biceps and brachialis anticus would likewise be more frequently lacerated, by the violent pro- trusion of the head of the humerus forwards, were it not that their attachments are at some distance from the joint. This mischief, however, occa- sionally takes place. The lower end of the humerus, indeed, has been known not only to lacerate these muscles, but to burst the integu- ments, and present itself externally ; an instance of which is recorded by Petit, and two such cases I saw during my apprenticeship at St. Bartholo- mew's. Boyer justly remarks, that it is difficult to conceive how, under these circumstances, the brachial artery and median nerve can escape. In fact, this vessel has sometimes been ruptur«d, and mortification of the limb been the consequence; but this injury of the artery, and the hiccration of the muscles and skin, are rare occurrences. {Mai. Ckir. t. iv. p. 215.) Nor, if the artery were wounded, would gangrene be invariabh'the result; for, if ray memory is correct, an instance, in which the limb was saved, notwithstanding such a com- plication, used to be mentioned by Mr. Aberncthy in his lectures, and a similar fact is recorded by Cruveilhicr. Cruvcilhier has published an engraving of the changes, which followed an unreduced dislocation of the elbow. The case is a dislocation of the bones of the fore-arm from the humerus backward. The head of the radius and the olecranon project be- hind the lower end of the humerus, which bone i.s maintained in tlie bent position by deposits of osseous matter, which extend in a pointed form to a considerable height. Extension and flexion of the elbow arc both equally impossible ; motion is restricted to a slight yielding, allowed by some disproportion between the lower end of tlic humerus and the capacity of tlio osseous sholl. The new bony formation arises from the radius and ulna, uniting them solidly togetiier, embracing the lower