641 ERYSIPELAS, the leg through the fascia, which retracted widely after its division ; the parts were much gorged with blood, and disorganisation of the oelhilar membrane and aponeurosis had commenced at one part. There was profuse bleeding from the entire almost of the cut surface. The e.xtent of bleeding was not attended to by the person in charge of the case, and in twenty minutes life was nearly extinct. Every plan of stimulation and support was adopted, except transfusion ; but death oc- curred in an hour and a half after the operation." {M'Dmcel, in Duhl. Joiirn. of Aled. Science, vol. vi. p. 179.) This case teaches us, at all events, that the bleeding must not be neglected. I am of opinion, tlierefore, says Mr. Cooper, that incisions of preposterous length are not the most prudent practice ; by preposterous, I mean such as require a foot ruler or a yard for their measurement ; for nobody is more convinced than I am that free incisions of less extent are often of the highest service. [The controversy is forgotten now ; yet, thirty years ago, Mr. Lawrence and the author of this dictionary were engaged 'in a severe pen and ink battle as to the length of incision.] As a substitute for incisions. Sir W. Dobson proposed many small punctures, which he repeats twice a day to the number and extent required ; and often, in bad cases, three or four times in the twenty-four hours. The quantity of blood and serous fluid discharged from these punctures, al- though sometimes considerable, he says, need never create any alarm. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiv. p. 206.) There is no doubt that such punctures, whether merely deep enough to draw blood from the skin, or to let out some serosity from the subcutaneous tissue, give great relief when the skin is very tense. [In some cases thty are very painful, and, in fact, more painful and less effectual than incisions. Mr. Lawrence now advocates one free and early incision; not many; not yet of extravagant length. The patient must always be watched, to take measures against excessive loss of blood.] Leeches, and even cupping, have been at times emploj^ed to draw blood from the inflamed part— sometimes with relief in sthenic cases, but they are almost, if not quite, disused at present. [Cold applications are decidedly to be condemned when they cause any feeling of shivering or discom- fort ; and in cases of idiopathic erysipelas they are objectionable on a priori grounds. Tiie cases in which they are applicable seem to be those of slight erysipelas or erythema, tlircatcning an inflamed wound, wlien the patient likes them ; but in all cases tepid or warm are safer. Blisters, inapplicable as they seem, have been largely used, particularly by the English of 150, and the French of SO years back. There seems no reason to doubt that they occasionally cut short a wandering and declining erysipelas, and at least they imitate the vesications of the disease. But the reviser would be very unwilling to sanction so barbarous a remedy. (See Roche and Sanson, Noureaux Elan, do PatM. Mid, Chir. t. i. d 352.)] ^' A large blister was sometimes applied by Du- puytren over a wound, and to the surrounding skin ; and he found that the irritation and suppuration which were thus excited, occasionally succeeded in preventing phlegmonous erysipelas. (See Clin, Chir. t. ii. p. 320.) Indeed, it was only for the prevention of the disorder that Dupuytren sanctioned this practice, which, as he particularly explains, he was afraid of resorting to, after the disease had resisted bleeding and cold sedative lotions, because he had sometimes, though not often, seen sloughing produced by it. {lb. p. 322.) The application of the nitrate of silver in substance, or in the form of a lotion, so as to blacken the part, was proposed some years since by Mr. Higginbottom, as a means of checking the peculiar action of the vessels, on which erysipelatous inflammation was believed at that day to depend. It was said to repress the elFusion of serosity in the cellular tissue ; and, if applied beyond the erysipelas, to form an obstacle to its spreading in any par- ticular direction. By forming a black line with it, the inflammation may thus be kept from running up the neck to the face and head. {On the Use of Nitrate of Silver.) In the early stages of erysipelas, Mr. S. Cooper often employed it with advantage in the North London Hospital. Experience has since shown, that although the application will some- times give the coup de grace to a languid eruption, yet that it has no certain power of preventing erysipelas from spreading. Mr. Higginbottom directs the part to be first washed with soap and water, and then dried. The inflamed and surround- ing skin is then to be moistened, and the nitrate of silver passed over it once, twice, or thrice, or more frequently, if rapid vesication be required. The part is then to be exposed to the air and kept cool. [Mr. Lawrence uses a solution of 30 grains to a drachm ; for the purpose of checking exudation into the tissue of the eyelids ; and of drawing a line of demarcation round the inflamed part: and has great faith in its efficacy. Stimulatiiig applications, such as the pepper and spirit lotion of Sydenham, soap liniment, solution of carbonate of ammonia, and the like were used, even up to a late date, and perhaps are now, to get rid of the last stage of simple erysipelas of the head. The tincture ot iodine has been used largely by Mr. Norris. Tmes, Dec. 10, 1852.) The sulphite, of iron in solution (3iv. to a pint), was employed by M. Velpeau as a lotion, in order to act on the blood in the inflamed tissues. In the course of some clinical observations (Med. Times and Gaz. March 10, 1855) that the efficient cause of erysipelas is decomposition of the fluids at the injured part, whetiier primary, or caused by ' infection. These altered fluids spread by imbibition into tile adjoining tissues. To attack them is there- fore to extingnisii the disease in its focus ; that is in cases of local infection. M. Velpeau believes that the iron lotion thus cuts short the erysipelas. At least it iron-moulds the linen. Of other remedies on our list, M. Velpeau gives an opinion in which we fully concur. In twenty five cases he had employed compression by band- ages with no good result. In thirty-three flying blisters were applied with equal want of benefit. The same with the nitrate of silver in thirty cases. Ill 200 cases mercurial ointment was resorted to, and sometimes seemed to diminish the duration of the disease by a day or two; but it is very dirty, and mischievous if it salivate. T T