FRACTURE, Y Y t C95 days from the time when the accident took place, if the injured parts are examined, blood is found to be extravasted around the ends of the fracture, between them, and even in the medullary canal. The ecchymosis may extend to parts far from the fracture. Considerable inflammation and swelling ensue at the irritated points, The muscular fibres are confounded with the inflamed cellular tissue, and very soon cannot be distinguished from other parts. The periosteum becomes red, swollen, and softened, and a reddisli serous fluid is elfused be- tween it and the portions of the bone which it covers. The fibrous appearance of the ends of the bone disappears. The medullary membrane itself swells, inflames, and gradually obliterates the tube in the centre of the bone. The medulla acquires a greater consistence, and the portion of it in one fragment is conjoined with that of the other. If we look at what is passing between the ends of the fracture, we find that the coagulated blood between them is absorbed in a few days, and replaced by a gelatinous fluid ; and between the fourth and the sixth day the surfaces of the fracture are sometimes, but not always, covered by a reddish, fleecy sub- stance. (See Dupuytren, Clinique. Chir. t. iv. p. 132.) In the second stage, extending from the tenth to the twenty-fifth day, the swelling of the soft parts becomes firmer, and every day more intimately ad- herent to the substance between tlie ends of the fracture; and the muscles resume their usual ap- pearance. This tumor of the callus, as it is termed by Baron Dupuytren, now diminishes in extent, and becomes more distinct from the surrounding parts. Its texture is homogeneous, very like fibro- cartilage, and divided with difliculty. Its fibres are parallel to the axis of the bone. The swollen medullary membrane, transformed into a fibro- cartilaginous texture, progressively lessens the central cavity of the bone, and at length fills it up. The internal production, or peg (cJieville) resulting from these organic changes, becomes blended on the level of the fracture with the substance inter- posed between the fragments. (See Diqmytrcn, op. et t. cit. p. 133.) As the formation of the callus advances, other particularities are noticed, and these occur in what may be considered as the third stage, which begins about the twenty-fifth day, and is prolonged to the fortieth, or even the sixtieth. In weak constitu- tions the process is not finished till the end of the third month. The firm, homogeneous, fibrous mass, constituting what Dupuytren names' the tumor of the callus, acquires by degrees a cartilaginous, and rather an osseous consistence. About the end of this period the fragments are placed in tlie centre of a solid ferule, which adheres to every point of their circumference. This kind of ferule, or clasp, the very same thing which was accurately des- cribed by Duhamel, is covered liy thickened peri- osteum, whicli is united to that wliich invests the sound portions of the bone, and no external traces remain of the solution of continuity. The sur- rounding cellular tissue is yet stiff and indurated. The soft substance between the fragments has be- come denser and more adherent to the extremities of the bone; but it is still far from uniting them with any degree of perfection. The central peg, continuing to extend itself towards the ends of the fracture, rapidly assumes a greater consistence, and soon forms a very solid osseous cylinder. It is commonly at this period that surgeons discon- tinue the apparatus; but the callus, now existing, is not to remain, and consequently Baron Dupuy- tren terms it the provisional callus. Fourth stage. Between the third and the fifth, or sixth month, the tumor of the callus becomes gradually more compact ; and the central ossifica- tion, or peg {cheville) undergoes the same transfor- mation. The substance interposed between the fragments acquires all the organic characters and the consistence of the firm substance of bone, from which it is only distinguishable by its particular colour. It is this intervening substance, trans- formed into an osseous tissue, which makes what Baron Dupuytren has named the definitive callus. Finally, the central ossification {cheville) as- sumes a lighter texture, cells are produced within it, and, after having been converted into a reticular texture, it disappears, leaving the central canal of the bone perfectly free again. After the restora- tion of the medullary canal, a medullary membrane, which invested the cells, becomes continuous with the membrane that lines it and secretes the medulla. Lastly, the external portion of the provisional cal- lus (for the central ossification may be looked upon as another part of it) disappears. As Dupuytren further explains, the differences of fractures must occasion slight varieties in the formation of the callus. Thus, when the two ends of the fracture pass over one another, the internal cylindrical ossification, or peg, is not formed ; and the case is the same when the bone does not pre- sent a medullary canal. This history of the process by which fractures unite must at once let us understand that the period of forty days, sometimes specified as the time re- quisite for the consolidation, is far from being suf- ficient, and that it should be much longer in oblique fractures, and those where the ends of the bone ride over one another. The same history would lead us to expect what certain facts prove, that, down to a certain period, when a fracture has united with much deformity of the limb, the surgeon may safely make the callus yield, so as to bring the limb into a better shape, Dupuytren has recorded cases in which he accom- plished this purpose in the leg, after the twenty- nintli and even the fifty-ninth day, and in which a deviation of the hand towards the radial side of the fore-arm was rectified as late as the twenty-fifth day. The advantage now spoken of may be ob- tained without breaking the callus, which is a sub- stance endued with a certain degree of suppleness and elasticity. The fragments having been brought into a better position by the observance of the principles recommended to be attended to in the reduction of fractures generally, the improved situa- tion of the fragments is to be secured by mechanical moans. Thus, as Dupuytren remarks, supposing tiiere is a projection made by the end of one, or those of both fragments, the limb is to bo placed between two inflexible planes, which compress it in two diametrically opposite directions. As the projecting points receive the greatest pressure, thej' t("nd to return to tite level of the rest of the bone. If, by means of pads, the projection is increased, while a vacancy is left at the opposite point, then the effects produced M'ill be still more marked, and oven carried so far as to cause deformity in the other direction. The same improvcmeut may be