6 ABSCESS. In an aneurism, the pulsation is sj-nclii'onous ■with the stroke of the artery at the wrist; but this is not reguliirly the case with other pulsations. Should the patient he aiTected with melancholia, hypochondriasis, hysteria, or other nervous com- plaints, void blood from the stomach, or a black matter from the bowels ; should there be any hardness or swelling of the abdominal viscera discoverable by the touch, the probability is that the pulsations are not owing to an internal aneurism. With the exception of cases in which thess pulsations are owuig to mechanical impediments to the circulation. Dr. Albers believes that they are mostly a symptom of some nervous affection. He also thinks, that the surprise excited by these throbbings arises only from their strength and situation ; other analogous, strong pulsations, as, for instance, those of the heart, or of the carotids, being common enough in hypochondriacal and hysterical persons. The same gentleman adverts to the increased action, which, in inflammation and fevers, is often more conspicuous in some parts of the sanguiferous system than others. See Ueber Pulsationem im Uuterleibe. Bremen, 8vo 1803. Obs. on some of the most frequent and impoitant Diseases of the Heart; on Aneurism of the Thoracic Aorta; on Preternatural Pulsation in the Epigastric Region, &c. By Allan Burns, p. 262, &c. SVG. Edinb. 1809, ABSCESS is derived from the Latin ahscessus which signifies a loss or departure, or that some thing is gone (to use a homely English ^word) from some part of the body ; si quid in aliqua parte corporis ahscaserif, as Celsus says. The word signifies a collection of pus or puriform fluid, in the substance of any part of the body, or in any of the cavities. Thus we speak of abscess of the areolar tissue, or bone, or brain ; and of abscess of the pleura, or joints. Abscess in the substance of a part is homologous with ulcer on the surface. Each results from th( softening down of the natural tissues, and of exuda tions which have infiltrated them. There is one question, which commonly is brought forward in discussing the general history of abscess, and that is, whether all abscesses of necessity arise from inflammation. This question will be amply discussed under the article In FLAMMATioN ; where we shall show tliat a dis- pute of this matter is one of words rather than of things. If all exudations are inflammatory, then all abscesses must be so ; but until it bo settled that the term inflammation shall include all exiidn- tion, with hypera;raia, or without it, it will be impossible to deny that abscesses may have no necessary 'connection with inflammation. The subject of abscesses admits of a twofold divi- sion. I-n the first place, the peculiarities which they derive fi'om the tissue or pnrt of tlie body in which they are situated, will require to be discussed, and for this we must refer to separate articles ; for in- stance those on the Lymph-vtic Glands, Female Brkast, the Brain, Bone, the Eve, the Joints, the Testis, and the Ovary, in which abscess of those tissues and organs will be described.^ Ab- scess also connected with the vertcbnc, or with the creat muscles of the trunk, will be treated of in the articles on Psoas or Lumbar abscess ; and the articles on the PERiNiEUM, and the Gknerative ORGANS in either sex, and the Rectum will con tain an account of abscess in those situations. In the present article we take the other division of the subject, and treat of abscess generally. Now, as we observe more at length in the ar- ticle Inflambiation, the general characters of each variety of abscess depend on those of the exudation, of which it is the result. Every va- riety almost, therefore, of blood disorder, may have its own special abscess, and the same may be said of many kinds of local injury. The first variety we will speak of is the com- monest. It is that which arises from the common inflammatory exudation, and which may occur in any constitution, after the blood has been dis- ordered, or overloaded, or the excretions insuffi- ciently discharged ; and more especially if some part of the body be in a state which renders it prone to disease. We speak here of the kind of abscess which may follow a bruise or puncture if inflamed ; which may affect the female breast during lactation, or the alveoli, if a tooth be de- cayed. It may occur after fever, or after any other general constitutional disturbance ; and in so doing often seems tn be the mode in which something injurious may be eliminated from the blood, and the health be improved in consequence. Its course is commonly acute, hence it is often called par ea:ccllence the acute abscess ; although sometimes the course of this abscess is chronic ; and that of any other variety may be acute. As good a word as auj' in phlegmon. A second varietj', the chronic abscess, is marked by the almost entire absence of inflammation, and results from the degeneration of an exudation of a low, devitalised kind. The term scrofulotis is commonly applied indiscriminately to chronic ab- scesses, although it is not the truth that every chronic abscess is scrofulous, nor that every scrofu- lous abscess is chronic. We may remark that abscesses commencing with specific scrofulous exudation have characters of their own, which will be pointed out in the article Scro- I'-ULA. Chronic indeed they are sure to be in their duration, although their origin maybe attended with signs of acute inflammation. We will only allude to the varieties of abscess which are presented by boil and carbuncle ; to the abscesses which occasionally result from gouty exu- dations, surcharged with the so called chalky deposit, and which also occasionally follow chronic rheu- matic disease, if injury be superadded. We might speak of cancerous abscess to designate the hollows formed in masses by cancer before ulceration. We must allude to the venereal bubo as an instance of abscess in the lymphatic vessels or glands, or iu the areolar tissue around them, produced by the action of a particular poison, through which the behaviour (as chemists would call it) of these abscesses has some peculiarities. (See Syphilis, Caruunxle, Cancer, &c.) Tliere is another kind, the difused abscess, which has derived its name from its wide extent, and from the circumstance that the exudation is not limited to one centre, and that when suppura- tion has taken place, the puriform fluid is not con- tained in anything like a cyst, but is extravasated or dilTiised widely along the areolar tissue, into the interstices of muscles, and under the skiii. This may arise from the nature of the injury which has caused tlie abscess ; as, for example, when a limb has suffered compound fracture and blood has