HERNIA examining tliia pathological point without preju- dice, it is incontestable, says Scarpa, that an intes- tine cannot be moved beyond its natural limits, unless that part of the mesentery which retains and fixes the bowel in its proper place be at the same time elongated. But it does not follow from this that a relaxation of the mesentery must pre cede the displacement of the intestine. It appears to Scarpa much more probable that these two events are simultaneous, and depend upon one and the same cause. " In the healthy state, the ahdomen, considered altogether, is submitted to two opposite forces which reciprocally balance each other. One is the pressure of the viscera against the abdominal parie tes, the other is the reaction of these same parietes upon the viscera which they contain. If these two forces were in perfect equilibrium in all individuals, and under all the circumstances of life, we should not be in the least subject to hernite. If, when the equilibrium has been broken, every point of the parietes of the belly were to yield equally to the impulse of the viscera, an increase of the volume of the whole abdomen would be the consequence, but a true hernia would never happen. The cavity of the abdomen is always completely full. The containing and contained parts react upon, and reciprocally compress, one another. It is by the eifect of this moderate, but equal and un- remitting pressure, that all the viscera mutually support each other. Without it, the ligaments of the liver, those of the spleen, and the various mem- branous bands of the intestines in general, would only be feeble means for fixing such parts in their respective situations. But there are certain points of the abdominal parietes which naturally present much less resistance than others, and which react •with much less power against the pressure made from within outwards by the abdominal viscera. Such is, particularly, the part which extends from the pubes to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. This relative weakness of some points of the abdominal parietes is very marked in. certain individuals, in consequence of a defect of organisation. It may also be increased by internal or external causes, which are as various as they are numerons. When, in one of these cases, the pressure made by the viscera is unusually increased, as happens in a violent effort, a defect in the equi- librium between tlie two forces above mentioned is occasioned; that is to say, the reaction of the abdominal parietes is no longer proportioned, at least at certain points, to the force of the impulse of the viscera. The conjoined powers of the ab- dominal muscles, diaphragm, and levator aiii, are then directed and concentrated against the most feeble point of the abdomen, towards which they ^propel the nearest viscus, or that whicli, from its .movableness, is tlie most liable to displacement. If such viscus should happen to be the noose of an •intestine, it is evident that the power which tends to make it protrude from the belly piust at the •same time act upon the corresponding portion of .the mesentery; and the intestine, in passing througli •the parietes of the abdomen, drags the mesentery after it, and makes this membrane yield and bo- •come elongated. When the displaced viscera meet with little resistance on the part of the parietes of "the abdomen, the hernia is quickly formed, and the -elongation of the mesentery occurs with equal celerity. We have an oxampio of this in ingui- '943 mil congenital liernia : in this case the intestine is precipitated into a sac previously prepared for its reception. On the contrary, in the ordi- nary inguinal hernia, a totally different dispo- sition of the parts renders the progress of the disease much slower. In most instances, the hernia is not formed immediately the equilibrium between the impulse of the viscera and the re- action of the abdominal parietes is broken; but in the groin a slight elevation is first observed in tlie direction from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium towards the inguinal ring. Some time afterwards, when the intestine has made its appearance on -the outside of the ring, the enlargement of the hernia, and the elonga- tion of the mesenterj^, make much more rapid though always simultaneous progress. " Numerous practical observations (says Scarpa) concur in proving that we must not search for the immediate cause of hernice in the relaxation of the mesentery, but rather in a want of equilibrium between the pressure of the viscera and the re- sistance of one or several points of the abdominal parietes. Indeed, hernise are seen occurring from the slightest causes in infants in whom the neck of the tunica vaginalis is not speedily obliterated, and in individuals who, from being fat, have, all on a sudden, become extremely thin. Such women as have had children are more subject to the disease than others. Persons also of both sexes, who carry considerable burdens, or who play upon wind instruments, or who have suffered a forcible contusion of the abdomen, are particularly exposed to the disorder, even though there be not the least reason for suspecting in them a relaxation of the mesentery. Vaginal hernia;, which arise after diffi- cult labours, afford another proof of the same truth. Their cause is owing to'a laxity and weak- ness of the parietes of the vagina, which, not bemg capable of making any further resistance to the pressure of the viscera situated in the cavity of the pelvis, at length suffer these parts to pro- trude. " With respect to the second proposition, that during the formation of a hernia the combined force of all the abdominal muscles is, as it were directed and concentrated against the most feeble point of the parietes, we see a proof of it in a fact that occurs to our observation every daj'. In order to convince ourselves of this, we need only notice what happens in individuals afflicted with hernia). If they cough, or sneeze, or make the slightest effort, they instantly find tho size of the swelling increased, and hasten to support the part with their hand. During tho slightest efforts which render the hernias larger, it is also indis- putable that tho mesentery is elongated in tho same proportion as tho intestine protrudes. All the viscera have such a tendency to bo displaced and carried towards tho weakest point of the pa- rietes of tho abdomen, that even tliose which arc naturally tho most distant from it, and arc tho moat firmly fixed by the folds of the mesentery, may, in their turn, descend into tho hernia. Ana- tomical knowledge alone would nevor have'led us to entertain a suspicion of the possibility of these occm-rences. Snndifort and I'aletta have found m an umbilical hernia, the crecniu, with a portion' of the ileum aiul colon. (Ofo. Pathol, cap. iv and Norn Guhernaculi Testis Descriplio.) Mau- chart, Camper, and Boae have met with the cte-