HYDREMIA. 1029 tually restores the balance in the economy, that no injurious results accrue from the temporary hydra;- mia produced. The animal economy is protected from the con- sequences of excessive concentration, or of exces- sive dilution of the blood, in health, by the rapidity of absorption, and the corresponding rapidity of ex- halation. Under some pathological conditions, also, an additional protection results from indi- gestion of the liquids received into the stomach, and diminished absorption. Nevertheless the blood may become morbidly concentrated or diluted. When suddenly, and to a great extent deprived of its water, by diuresis, diaphoresis, or alvine dis- charges, it has a tendency to become denser, darker coloured, and more rapidly coagulable; to prevent which, thirst, more or less intense, sets in, with very rapid absorption from the alimentary canal, and from the tissues and serous cavities. This is ex- emplified in diabetes and cholera, and also in the Roman or hot-air bath. If the deficiency be main- tained for any length of time, a disturbance takes place in the chemico-vital molecular actions of the fluids in the tissues, and also in the more stationary particles, which are then liable to assume a degree of fixity, entailing an arrest of the processes of as- similation and disintegration. This promotes en- crustation, and ultimately perfect stagnation and death. Hydrsemia, or dilution of the blood, is an oppo- site condition. This state is never produced per- manently by an excess of the fluid ingesta alone. Drinking watery fluids in excess, the action of the excreting organs being perfect, occasions no incon- venience; it does not disturb the water of the economy in its static or its dynamic conditions. Drinking water in excess also, the action of the excreting organs being temporarily interrupted,may produce temporary inconveniences, without being regarded as a disease. Hydra;mia and its conse- quences are the results of the operation of more continuous and often combined influences, of which a low temperature, with great humidity of the at- mosphere, excessive ingesta of diluting fluids, de- fective nutrition, and deficiency of active exercise, acting coetaneously, and in various degrees, are the most direct. A state of hydr£emia is easily produced by ha- bitual deficiency of nutriment, and occurs, in a more or less marked form, in all diseases attended with loss of appetite, and especially in exhausting diseases, from the combined influence of excessive waste and diminished supply. Keeping patients too long on a low diet has the same tendency. Loss of blood produces the same effect, being ra- pidly followed by the absorption of fluids of less density than the liquor sanguinis. Hence, a scan- tiness of solid constituents in the blood from these causes is not, as a general rule, associated with a diminution of the volume of blood circulating in the vessels, or true ana;mia, there being a constant tendency in the blood to retain its volume; but an£Emia cannot occur, to any extent, without being quickly followed by hydroemia. Most of the symptoms of slow or chronic anajmia are the re- sults, not simply of a diminished quantity of blood in the vessels, but of this condition, in a greater or sjighter degree, combined with an impoverishment of the qualities of the blood. {Leiimann, Path. Cliemistry, p. 241.) Whenever the watery dis- charge from the kidneys is diminished, failing an adequate compensating action of the cutaneous or mucous surfaces, as often happens in fevers, and acute and chronic inflammations, and in diseases of the heart and liver, a temporary or permanent state of hydrajmia may be produced, and in many of these diseases the blood, at first hyperinotic, ulti- mately becomes strictly hydrsemic. Every circum- stance which tends to impede the action of the skin, the lungs, or the kidneys, and to intercept the ne- cessary expenditure and renewal, and the perfect circulation of the aqueous fluids of the economy, conduces to the effect. Hydrasmia, as a primary morbid state, must not be confounded with the condition of the blood in which a relative excess of water occurs, owing to a loss of red corpuscles, the liquor sanguinis retaining the same, or a larger proportion of solid constituents than usual, as in chlorosis. On the primary invasion of many diseases, the red corpuscles are either de- stroyed more rapidly, or not renewed as quickly as usual, or both circumstances take place; hence the blood, as a whole, is more watery, but the serum retains its density; and, notwithstanding the ab- sorption of water to supply the place of corpuscles and replenish the vascular system, it may be even richer than usual in solid constituents. This has been observed in erysipelas, acute inflammations,ar- ticular rheumatism, puerperal peritonitis, and other diseases, in many of which the liquor sanguinis contains an excess of fibrine. (See Hyperinosis.) The products of the destructive metamorphoses of the corpuscles appear in these cases to be retained in the liquor sanguinis for a time; but as such dis- eases progress, from the diminution of the secretions, and from the solid matters supplied by the corpuscles becoming gradually exhausted, the solid constituents of the liquor sanguinis also diminish, and a perfect state of hydrsemia may be produced. Hence hy- drsemia is the result of blood-consuming diseases, as typhoid and malignant fevers, and a consequence of the action of substances which destroy its crasis, as many metallic poisons; but in most of these dis- eases an excess of water is only one element in the morbid condition, and constitutes a part only of the blood disorganisation. (See Spanjemia; Tox- HiEMlA.) A relative excess of water is also pro- duced by diseases probably seated in organs deeply concerned in the blood-making processes. (See IjEUCOCYTHiEMIA; MeLANEMIA; HEMORRHAGIC Diathesis.) In all these cases it is a secondary element of the morbid state of the blood, being associated with a disturbance of the healthy pro- portions of the fibrine, of the red or white cor- puscles, or with poisons or acrimonies, and other derangements of the constituent principles. (See Heterociiymeusis.) So, also, it occurs as a secondary condition, or forms a part of other com- plex blood derangements in scorbutus, purpura, tu- berculosis, cancer, and albuminuria. {Rokiianskj/, lib. cit.) But " hydrasmia as an idiopathic affection can- not be disputed." When the blood is water)'-, or essentially poor, it is thin and deficient in viscosity; and the fluids of the economy generally are too liquid. This condition cannot be maintained per- manently without a correspondence taking place be- tween the diminished density of their contents and the density and porosity of the parietes of the ves- sels, rendering them more distensible, and more prone to hypertemia or congestion, and being favour- able to the transmission of free liquids, whetlier it be 3 tT 3