EMPYEMA disorder,andthe case is attended with the symptoms 623 of suppuration, it is probably owing to a collection of matter. The patient, he observes, will also labour under a continual low fever, and a particular anxiety from the load of fluid. Besides this dilatation of the cavity by an ac- cumulation of the fluid, the patient will be sensible of an undulation, which is sometimes so evident that a bystander can plainly hear it in certain mo- tions of the body. Mr. Sharp adds, that this was the case with a patient of his own, on whom he performed the operation: but the fluid, in this in- stance, he says, was very thin, being a serous liquid, rather than pus. Sometimes, when the practitioner applies his ear close to the patient's chest, while this is agitated, a noise can be heard, like that produced by shaking a small cask not quite full of water. (See Br. Archer's Case, in Trans, of the Fellows, ^c. o/ihe A'w^'s a7id Queen's College of Physicians in Irela?id, \o\. ii. p. 2.)' In this instance, the fluid resembled whey. [Such undulations of the fluid, however, are only to be thus recognised, when air, as well as fluid, is pre- sent in tlie pleural cavity.] According to the same author, it will also fre- quently happen, that though the skin and intercostal muscles are not inflamed, they will become oede- raatous in certain parts of the thorax; or, if they are not oedematous, they will be a little thickened ; or, as Boyer states, the intercostal spaces are widened, and, when the empyema is considerable, instead of being depressed, as they are in thin per- sons, they project beyond the lev«l of the ribs. (Mai. C/iir. t. vii. p. 357.) These symptoms, joined with the enlargement of the thorax, and the preceding affection of the pleura or lungs, seem unquestionably to indicate the propriety of the operation. But, observes Mr. Sharp, amongst other motives to recommend it upon such an emergency, this is one, that if the operator should mistake the case, an incision of the intercostal muscles would neither be very painful, nor dangerous. (See Critical Inquiry into the present Slate of Surgery, sect, on Empyema.) " The difliculty of lying on the side, opposite to the collection of pus," says Le Dran, "is always accounted a sign of an empyema. This sign, in- deed, is in the afiirmative; but, the want of it does not prove the negative; because, when there is adhesion of the lungs to the mediastinum, the patient may lie equally on both sides." {Lc Draits Ohs. p. 108, edit. 2.) The explanation of this circumstance, ofltered by Le Dran, is, that when the cyst, in which the matter is contained, is between the mediastinum and the lungs, the me- diastinum gradually yields to the volume of the pus, in proportion as it is formed, and the cyst in which it is contained becomes dilated; " whence habitude becomes a second nature." Whereas, in an empyemal person, in whom the lung is not adherent to the mediastinum, and who lies on the side opposite to that on which the collection of pus is situated, the mediastinum is on a sudden loaded ■with an unusual weight of fluid. (1'. 111.) Richerand contends, that the difficulty of breathing, which patients with extravasatod fluid in the chest experience in lying upon the side opposite to that on which the disease is situated, never originates, as has been commonly taught and believed, from the fluid pressing upon the mediastinum and opposite lung. "I have (says he) produced artificial cases of hydrothorax, by- injecting water into the thorax of several dead subjects, through a wound made in the side. This experiment can only be made on subjects in which the lungs are not adherent to the parietes of the chest. In this way from three to four pints of water were introduced. I then cautiously opened the opposite side of the chest: the ribs and lungs being removed, the mediastinum could be distinctly seen, reaching from the vertebras to the sternum, and supporting, without yielding, the weight of the liquid, in whatever position the body was placed. " It is evident, then, that patients, with thoracic extravasations, lie on the diseased side, in order not to obstruct the dilatation of the sound side of the respiratory organs, one part of which is already in a state of inaction. It is for the same reason, and in order not to increase the pain by the tension of the inflamed pleura, that pleuritic patients lie on the diseased side. The same thing is observ- able in peripneumony: in a word, in all affections of the parietes of the chest." (Nosogr. Chir. t. iv. pp. 168, 169, edit. 2.) There may be some truth in the foregoing state- ment; but the experiments are far from being con- clusive, with respect to the assertion that, in empyema, hydrothorax, &c. the fluid on one side of the chest does not compress the opposite lung. In the first place, the quantity of fluid is frequently much larger than that which Richerand injected. Secondly, although the mediastinum may not be apt to yield at once to the weight of a liquid sud- denly injected into one side of the thorax; yet it frequently does so by the gradual effect of disease. Thirdly, many of the phenomena of empyema seem adverse to Richerand's inference. In opposition to Kicherand's view, Dr. Town- send argues, that we have direct proof of the influence of the weight of the fluid; for, in pneumo-thorax with empyema, the patient can generally lie on the sound side, so long as the effusion IS principally gaseous ; but, as the pro- portion of ponderable fluid increases, decubitus on the sound side becomes impossible. In like manner, in cases of empyema, the dyspnoea is generally greatly aggravated by this posture; but when the fluid has been discharged, the patient is immediately able to lie on the sound side, though the necessity for its free dilation continues as great as ever, the diseased side being still in a state of inaction. Thus, in a case of empyema with pneumo-thorax. where paracentesis was performed the patient could lie on the sound side on the niglit after the fluid was drawn oil', though it was ascer- tained by auscultation that the side was then filled with air. (See Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. v • and Townseud in Cydopaidia of Practical Afediciiie' art. Empyema.) ' [In empyema with pneumo-thorax, the disten- sion of thu pleural cavity with air often occasions pressure through the mediastinum upon the healthy lung. (See Empuvsbma.) The proof that fluid m one pleura may compress the opposite \nns IS given III the fact, stated below, tliat the lieart may be thereby pushed towards the healthy side ot the chest.J When empyema is double, the patient can seldom He in the horizontal position; but remains seated and with the trunk inclined forward. * Although surgeons should be nwarc that pa-