997 HERNIA. 3 s 3 top of which crossed the middle of the tumor. The integuments being thus divided, the angles of the incision were turned down, which exposed a considerable portion of the hernial sac. This being then carefully opened, the finger was passed below the intestines to the orifice of the sac at the umbi- licus, and the probe-pointed bistoury being intro- duced upon it, I directed it into the opening at the navel, and divided the linea alba downwards, to the requisite degree, instead of upwards, as in the former operation. When the omentum and intes- tine are returned, the portion of integument and sac which is left, falls over the opening at the um- bilicus, covers it, and unites to its edge, and thus lessens the risk of peritoneal inflammation, by more readily closing the wound." (Ozj Crural and Umbilical Hernia.) Less frequent Kinds op Hernia. The ventral hernia, described by Celsus, is not common; it may appear at almost any point of the anterior part of the belly, but is most frequently found between the recti muscles. The portion of intestine, &c., is always contained in a sac, made by the protrusion of the peritoneum. Sir A. Cooper imputes the disease to the dilatation of the natural foramina for the transmission of vessels, to conge- nital deficiencies, lacerations, and wounds of the abdominal muscles, or their tendons. In small ventral hernise, a second fascia is found beneath the superficial one; but in large cases the latter is the only one covering the sac. Hernias in the course of the linea alba sometimes occur so near the umbilicus, that they are liable to be mistaken for true umbilical ruptures. They may take place either above or below the navel. The first case, however, is more frequent than the second; and the following is the reason of this circumstance, according to the opinion of Scarpa: —" The upper half of the linea alba, that which extends from the ensiform cartilage to the umbi- licus, is naturall}^ broader and weaker than the lower half, the recti muscles coming nearer and nearer together, as they descend from the navel to the pubes." {Scarpa, Traiie des Hernies,^. 333.) The hernial sac of ruptures at the upper part of the linea alba may contain a noose of intestine, and a piece of the omentum, though, in most cases, a portion of the latter membrane alone forms the contents. In some subjects, the linea alba is so disposed to give way, that several hernias are ob- served to be formed successively in the inter- space between the ensiform cartilage and the umbilicus. M. Jules Cloquet has recorded a case of ventral hernia, reaching from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes. The skin covering it was so thin that the convolutions of the bowels were plainly visible. The cicatrix of the navel was perceptible rather towards the left side of the swelling. (Sec Patho- lorjia Cldr. p. 102.) " With respect to the small hernia (says Scarpa) which is considered as formed bj' the stomach, and concerning which Hoin and Gnrengeot have written so much (without either of them having related, at least to my knowledge, a single ex- ample proved by dissection), it is at least un- proved, that it was exclusively formed by this viscus. I do not see why the other viscera, par- ticularly the omentum and transverse colon, might not also coutribute to it. In my judgment, it only differs from other hernia3 of the linea alba in being situated on the left side of the ensiform cartilage, a situation that must materially influence the symptoms of the case. In fact, whatever may be the viscera which form it, a sympathetic irrita- tion of the stomach is occasioned, that is much more intense than that which ordinarily accom- panies umbilical hernia;, those of the lower part of the linea alba, or, in short, all other hernia}, which are more remote from the stomach." (Op. cit. p. 334.) The following are the circumstances by which the umbilical hernia may be discriminated from that which occurs in the linea alba near the navel. The first, whether in the infant or the adult, has a roundish neck, or pedicle, at the circum- ference of which the aponeurotic edge of the um- bilical ring can be felt. Whatever may be its size, its body always retains nearly a spherical shape. Neither at its apex nor its sides, is any wrin- kling of the skin, or any thing like the cicatrix of the navel distinguishable. At some points of the surface of the tumor, the skin is merely somewhat paler and thinner than elsewhere. On the contrarj', the hernia of the linea alba has a neck or pedicle, of an oval form like the fissure, through which it is protruded. The body of the tumor is also constantly oval. If the finger be pressed deeply round its neck, the edges of the opening in the linea alba can be felt ; and if the hernia be situated very near the umbilical ring, the cicatrix of the navel may be observed upon one side of it, which cicatrix retains its rugosity and all its natural appearance; a certain indica- tion that the viscera are not protruded through the umbilical ring. {Scarpa, Traiii des Hernies, p. 336.) The distinction which Scarpa has established between the umbilical hernia, properly so called, and those of the linea alba, is not useless in regard to practice. Indeed, when the latter are left to themselves, they make much slower progress than the former. On account of their smallness, they frequently escape notice, particularly in fat persons, and when situated at the side of the ensiform cartilage. They occasion, however, com- plaints of the stomach, habitual colics, especially after meals ; and, unfortunately for the patient,, he may be tormented a very long time by these indispositions, before the true cause of them is-, discovered. The umbilical hernia may be known from the- earliest period of its formation, by the alteration which it produces in the cicatrix of the navel, and the rapidity of its increase. In other respects, these two kinds of herniaj demand the same means of cure ; but those of the linea alba, caileris paribus, are more difficult to cure than ruptures at the umbilicus. This is probably owing to the natural tendency which, in children, the umbilical ring has to close, when the hernia is kept well reduced, whilst accidental openings in the linea alba have not the same advantage. {Scarpa, p. 340.) When a common ventral hernia has been re- duced, it should be kept in its place by means of a bandage or truss. When strangulated, it admits more frequently than most other cases, of being relieved by medical treatment. If attended with stricture, which cannot otherwise be relieved that stricture must be earcfidly divided. '