'^^'^ CHILBLAIN of t).e delicate stfuctures of the eye, which ^vill not show Itself until the blood is entirely absorbod Jurljul secretions in the anterior chamber. Ano- ther curious change in the anterior chamber is when the natural secretion becomes altered in colour and quality, being yellow and highly al- buminous and much increased in quantity The result of these changes is, that the cavity is much increased ni size by the thrusting back of the iris and lens, and the surface of the iris appears of a green colour, there is also very severe pain and tension and much dimness of vision; such eyes are more or less damaged by previous attacks of in- flammation. The best mode of relieving the pain in these cases, is to puncture the cornea with a needle, and to evacuate a portion of this yellow albuminous fluid, so as to remove all tension- this may require a repetition of the same treatment iiutil the abnormal tendency is worn out It is important not to allow all the fluid to escape, other- Wise the iris will faU in contact with the cornea which for a time occasions great pain. ' The above remarks have been taken from the Lectures of Mr. Critchett {On Diseases of the Eye Lancet, August 12. 1854). Consult also Macken' zie {On Diseases of the Eye, 4tli edit. 1854).] CHEMOSIS (from xaivo., to gape). When the eye is violently inflamed, it frequently happens that serum, lymph, or blood is eflused in the tissue which connects the conjunctiva with the anterior surface of the sclerotic coat of the eye. Hence the con- junctiva IS gradually elevated from the sclerotic and projects forwards, so as to conceal within it the cornea, which appears as if it were depressed, (bee Conjunctivitis.) CHILBLAIN. [Chilblain is one of the com mon effects of cold. Just as heat will produce simple redness, mere vesication, or total destruction ot parts oHhe body, according to its degree and the length ot Its application, so cold is followed in the same way by redness, by vesication, and by gan- grene. The ordinary form of chilblain, so common they yield a thin, ichorous, or aanious discharge, and are m general brought, only after a loiu' time and wuh much difficulty, t^ a h'eaUh;Lp u^a i n! In neglected cases, those ulcers not unfrequently beeomecovered w th foul sloughs. Ulceration o t^ supervenes, and the soft parts, covering the bones are destroyed." (0» Injlammltion, p. G38 ) The worst stage of chilblains is attended with sloughing. Chilblains are particularly apt to occur in per- sons who are in the habit of going immediately to the fire when they come home in winter with their hugers and toes very cold ; thev are also frequent in persons who often go suddenly into the cold while very warm. Hence, the disease most commonly affects parts of the body which are peculiarly exposed to these sudden transitions • lor instance, the nose, ears, lips, toes, heels, and fingers. Richter remarks, that they are still more Irequently occasioned when tlie part suddenly exposed to cold is in a moist perspiring state, as wel as warm. Young subjects are much more liable to this troublesome complaint than adults ; and females, brought up in a delicate manner, are generally more afflicted than the other sex. The most likely plan of preventing chilblains is to accustom the skin to moderate friction ; to avoid hot rooms and making the parts too warm ; to adapt the quantity and kind of clothing to the state of the constitution, so as to avoid extremes, both in summer and winter; to wash the parts frequently with cold water; to take regular exercise in the open air in all kinds of weather ; and to take particular care not to go suddenly into a warm room, or very near the fire, out of the cold air. One of the best modes of curing chilblains of the milder kind is to rub them with snow, or ice-cold water, or to bathe them in the latter several times a day, keeping them immersed each time, till the pam and itching abate. After the parts have been rubbed or bathed in this way, they should be well dried with a towel, and covered with flannel or leather socks. ■ This plan is perhaps as good a one as any ; but in the winter in this counTry o relmnds and ^^^^^^^^ it s not tL T?'T"* ' '^T^ ' is an instance of the mildest form of threffec/roH L^^ } M always congenial to the cold brought before the siSeon 1 °M I'rl'T P'-^t'^"*' ! •''"d with the con cold brought before the surgeon. ] lu its mildest form it is attended with a mode- rate redness of the skin, a sensation of heat and Itching, and more or less swelling, which symptoms, after a time, spontaneously disappear. The intole- rable Itching and sense of tingling, accompanyinn- the inflammation of the milder description of chil- blains, are observed to be seriously aggravated by exposure to heat. In a more violent degree, the swelling 13 larger, redder, and sometimes of a dark blue colour ; and the heat, itching, and pain, are so excessive, that the patient cannot use the part. In tile third degree, small vesicles arise upon the tumor, which burst and leave excoriations. These often change into ill-conditioned sores, commonly known as broken chilblains," which sometimes penetrate even as deeply as the bone, discharge a thin ichor- 0119 matter and generally prove very obstinate. As ur. John riiomson has remarked, " When the serum contained in the vesications is let out by a small polling a portion of new cuticle is usually formed to supply the place of that which has been sepa- latea ; but, when the inflammation is severe, mid mrts w^"?" '"^e'fi">P>-"Perly treated, the Paits which are the seat of vesication are liable to pass mto the state of vitiated ulcer.s. In this state, stitutions of some it may even disagree. In such cases, the parts affected may be rubbed with spirit of wine, linimentum saponis, a mixture of tincture of opium and hartshorn, tincture ofmyrrh, or a strong solution of alum or vinegar. Mr. Wardrop speaks highly of one part of the tincture of cantharides, with six of soap liniment. {Mcdico-Chir. Trans, vol. v. p. 142.) [A solution of camphor in eau de co- logne, is, perhaps, the best application for patients of the upper classes, and equal parts of turpentine and olive oil, for dispensary patients, or a table-spoon- ful of mustard rubbed up with four ounces of water, answers as well .as cither.] Vesications from cold are treated on precisely the same principles as vesications from heat. See Burns. When chilblains suppurate and ulcemto, they require stimulating dressings, such as lint dipped in a mixture of the liquor pluinbi diacetatis dilu- us, and liquor calcis ; tinctura myrrhic, or warm vinegar. If a salve be employed, one which con- tains the hydiargyri nitrico-oxydum, or the un- guentum zinci witli myrrh, camphor, opium, or the Peruvian balsam, will be found most beneficial, '^'he muriate, or h^-drocliloratc of lime, in the form of an ointment, has been found by Lisfranc to