ANUS. tensive. And it is plain that the possibility of a cuce depends materially on the kind of angle at which the two portions of bowel meet, .ind that the projection of the internal frtenum, or jutting mem- branous ridge between the two oriticeSj is alwaj'^s a greater or lesser obstacle to the cure. With respect to the diminution which occurs in the diameter of the part of the intestinal canal, be- tween the artificial opening and the natural anus, Desault admits the correctness of the observation, but entirely dissents from such authors as have spoken of the change as sometimes proceeding so far that an obliteration of that portion of the in testinal tube is the consequence. The mucus secreted within it suffices for preventing this ob- literation ; a secretion which, in these cases, is copious, and is partly voided from the rectum in the form of white flakes. And, if any further proof were needed that the bowels between the artificial and natural anus remain pervious, it is furnished by the fact, that, in cases of artificial anus, the lower continuation of the tube frequently becomes inverted, and protrudes. On the other hand, the kind of obliteration above spoken of has never been demonstrated by dissection: it was not observed by Lecat, in the examination of the body of a person, who died twelve years after the entire cessation of the passage of fteces per anum; nor was it found to exist by Desault, when he opened a patient who died of marasmus in the Hotel Dieu, in consequence of an artificial anus, which communicated with the ileum, and had lasted two years. {(Euvr. de Desault, t. ii. p. 354—356. _ It is true, then, that the lower portion of the intestinal canal undergoes a kind of atrophy, but, perhaps, is never obliterated or rendered quite impervious. Such atrophy, according to Dupuy- tren, extends to the corresponding part of the mesentery jind mesenteric glands ; and after some years, such is the difference between the upper and lower parts of the intestinal tube, that while the former seems to be that of an adult, the other looks as if it belonged to a new-born infant {Clinique Chir. t. ii. p. 210.) I believe the only case, forming an exception to the assertion of Desault, that the lower portion of the intestinal canal is never obliterated, is that met with by M. B^gin, in the Val de Grace. It was that of a man, eighty years of age, who, for forty ye-w before he died, had been afflicted with artificial anus, communicating with the transver.se nrch of the colon. The intestine below the arti- ficial anus was transformed into a solid cord, not larger than a quill, until it approached the anus, when Us diameter increased, and its solidity less- ened. Here it contained also a whiti.oh mucus ; and in other parts was only capable of admitting a small probe, except for the space of six or eiglu inches towards the artificial anus, where its cavity was totally obliterated. (See Bid. de Med. cl de Citir. Pratifjiics, t. iii. p. 133.) However proper the formation of an artificial anus may be in many cases in which the patient's life depends upon the event, it must be confessed that the consequence is a most afflicting and dis- gusting infirmitj'. This truth cannot be denied, though the freces which are discharged, from not having been so long retained in the bowels, may not be so fetid as those which are evacuated in the ordinary way. As the opening which gives vent to the excrement, is not endowed with the same 269 organisation as the lower end of the rectum, and as, m particular, it is not furnished with any sphincter capable of contracting and relaxing it- self, as occasion requires, the faces are continually escaping without any knowledge of the circum- stance on the part of the patient. Hence the un- cleanly state of the parts around the external opening, and their frequently excoriated fungous state. Some persons in this state, among the number of those whose histories are on record, made use of a metal box, in which their excrement was re- ceived. Schenckius relates the case of an officer who was wounded in the belly, and who allowed his faeces to escape into a vessel made for the purpose. Dionis mentions a similar case. Mos- cati also communicated to the Academy of Surgery the history of a wounded man, in whom an artificial anus took place in consequence of a wound in the abdomen below the right hypochon- drium. His excitement used to be received in a tm box, fastened to him with a belt. The wound received a leaden canula, to which the tin box was accommodated. Uncleanliness is not the only inconvenience of an artificial anus. Persons have been known to be quite debilitated by the affliction, and even ulti- mately to die m consequence of it. This is liable to happen, whenever the intestinal canal is opened very high up, so that the aliment escapes before chyhfication is completed, and the nutritious part of the food has been taken up by the lacteals. In this circumstance the patient becomes emaciated and sometimes perishes, as Desault had an oppor- tunity of observing ; and examples of which are also on record by Hoin and Le Blanc. In cases of this description, the matter voided has little fetor, and is/requently sourish. lu all instances, he matter is evacuated involuntarily, because there is nothing like a sphincter. But v.hen the lutions of the ileum, or, what is more frequent with the large intestines, the danger is less ser us and patients in this state are often noticed perform: ing all their functions very well ; and, with the e.^ceptlon of colic, to which they are subject, en! joymg as good health as they did previously to their having the present disease. In such ex amples, the matter voided is more fetid its dis charge does not follow so quickly its introduction :nto the stomach, and it is retained for n longer time. ° On this part of the subject, the investigations ot Dupuytren led to some interesting information winch was, that the upper or stomachic portion of the intestinal canal not only preserves its calibre motion, and natural appearance, but, in conse-' quence of havmg an increased duty 'to perform It acquires an increase of canacitv ..n,l r''"™' the seat of a more energeti^ ^i'l^i^ ofmore ac ive secretion and absorpt on This excess of life says he, is propagated even to the mesentery and its glands. »-icn to the Incases of artificial anus, the regular convolu t.on of the bowels, so favourable fo? re advi of the.r contents, are immediately affect t at some ponit or another. A noose of intestine is donlu' d and drawn towards the breach in the . a S Jf he abdomen ; it assumes the form of i trianVe the base of which is the mesentery, whi?e o e sfe .s the stomachic portion, the other the ; la comi^ nuation of the intestine. In every simple h rni