I which arises from the contracted state of the mouth of the sac, may be safely divided, either upwards, as directed by Sir Astley Cooper, or upwards and outwards. Operators should be aware of the pos- sibility of having a sac to divide, after laying open the tunica vaginalis. (See Hey's Practical Obs. p. 221 ; Dr. BallingaU, in Edin. Med. Journ No. 87, p. 464 ; and Sir A. Cooper''s Work On Hernia, p. 79, part. i. ed. 2.) Mr. C. H. Todd mentions various anatomical facts, which convince him, that "the generally received opinion, respecting the formation of hernia infantilis, is erroneous; and that, in no instance, is the sac in actual contact with the testicle." Mr, Todd believes, that the hernial sac is protruded completely within the cellular sheath of the cord; and that, when it depends near to the point of insertion of the spermatic vessels into the testicle, its fundus comes in contact with the upper part of the tunica vaginalis testis, and receives from it, on its lower surface, a serous covering, proportioned to the magnitude of the tumor, or degree of disten- tion of the sac. He also thinks, that, although this hernia is more easily formed in an infant, it may occur at any period of life. In University College Hospital, two examples of this hernia have oc- curred in adult persons, within the last two years. It is a case that appears to be often combined with hydrocele. The most certain diagnostic symptoms seem to Mr. Todd to be; first, the testicle being situated at the lowest part of the hernia, .ilthough the tumor is unusually large. Secondly, the possibility of making the fluid in the tunica vagi- nalis, when a fluid is lodged in it, pass, by means of a little pressure, for some distance in front of the hernial sac, towards the abdominal ring. If an operation were necessary for the relief of stran- gulation, Mr. Todd deems it quite practicable in many instances to open the hernial sac, without dividing the tunica vaginalis. The prudence of acting in this way, however, will depend on the extent of that part of the anterior surface of the sac, which is not covered by the serous membrane of the testicle. Mr. Todd would not extend the incision to the bottom of the tumor, and, after cautiously opening the sac, near the abdominal ring, he would make the dilatation of it down- wards, the finger having been previously intro- duced to ascertain the distance to which the fundus of the sac depends. (See C. If. Todd, in Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. i. p, 232, &c.) [I operated some years ago in a case of stran- gulated infantile hernia. The history given was that of a congenital hernia; the testicle, however, could be readily distin;^uished situated below the hernia. The swelling had not the ordinary feeling of a strangulated hernia. It was not tense, and the contents of the sac felt movable in the neigh- bourhood of the inguinal canal. The symptoms of strangulation, however, continued, and the hernia could not be reduced. The operation was there- fore performed. On opening the hernial sac, and directing the finger upwards, it was evident that no stricture existed in the ring or in the inguinal canal. On attempting to reduce the bowel it was found to be held by what appeared to be a firm adhesion to the bottom of the sac. On examining this attentively, a stricture was discovered at the lower part of the sac, a portion of which, containing a small knuckle of intestine, had been forced through a small jound opening in the tunica vaginalis. HERNIA. <)79 It was here strangulated, together with its sac. The stricture being divided, the intestine was readily returned and the case did well.] Crural or Femoral Hernia. Verheyen, who wrote in 1710, first distinctly pointed out the nature of crural hernia, which, until then, had been generally confounded with inguinal hernia. The parts composing this kind of hernia always protrude under Ponpart's ligament, and the swell- ing is situated towards the inner part of the bend of the thigh. The rupture descends on the internal side of the femoral artery and vein, between these vessels and the os pubis, through the crural ring or canal for the transmission of the same vessels. And, as Hesselbach has remarked, the inner open- ing of this ring or canal is the predisposing cause of the disease ; the peritoneum spread over it being gradually propelled into it by various occasional causes, so as to complete the tendency to hernia. The actual protrusion of the bowels may be formed either suddenly or by degrees. As soon as the bowels have once passed the outer aperture, or what Cloquet terms more properly the lower opening of the crural canal, the hernia has more room for ex- tending itself forwards and to each side, and the integuments now become elevated into an oval sivellinff, the long diameter of which is nearly trans- verse. {Hesselbach, p. 47.) Gimbernat names the passage through which the femoral hernia pro- trudes from the abdomen, the crural. Hey the femoral ring, and Cloquet the crural canal. Females are particularly subject to this kind of rupture. It has been computed that nineteen out of twenty married women afflicted with hernia have this kind ; but that not one out of an hundred unmarried females, or out of the same number of men, have this form of the disease. {Arnauil.) I was lately consulted by the friends of a little girl, about eight years old, who has an unequivocal femoral hernia. " The crural hernia," says Scarpa, "is fre- quently observed in women who have had several children. It very seldom afflicts young girls, and still more rarely men. In the latter the' viscera can more easily escape through the in- guinal ring (inguinal canal), by following the spermatic cord, than they can descend along the crural vessels, and raise the margin of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle that forms the crural arch. In women an opposite dis- position prevails, in consequence of the smallness of the inguinal ring (inguinal canal), which in them only gives passage to the round ligament of the uterus, and, besides, is situated lower down and nearer tlie pubes, than it is in men ; whilst, on the contrary, the crural arch is more extensive by reason of the wider form of the pelvis. Morg'ngiii expressly says that he never met with the crural hernia in the dead body of any male subject. Mild, ut vcrmn futear, nisi nondum in faiinini's accidit ut cam viderem. (Do Sed. ct Cans. Morb. epist. xxxiv. xv.) Camper gives us to under- stand almost the same thing, {/cones Hcrniarnm inprccfat.) Hevin often operated for this kind of hernia in females, but only once in the male subject. {Pathol, ct Therap. p. 406.) Sandifort and Walter have both seen but a single instance of it in the dead body of the male subject {Obs Anal. Pathol cap. iv. p. 72 ; Syllxye Comment 3 R 2