"^^^ FRACTURE This having been done, by a few turns of the screw tlie bone is effectually pressed down into us place. It the patient remains quiet, the point may be maintanied in its place for twenty or thirty days without producing suppuration or inflamma- tion, or even redness, and if it has not slipped in consequence of having been inserted too obliquely upon the internal surface of the tibia, the small wound which it leaves will very rapidly cicatrise. M. Malgaigne states that in the majority of cases m which this instrument was employed, not the slightest projection remained on the surface of the bone. (Traiie des Fract. t. i. p. 795.)] Fractures op the Tibia. Fracture of the tibia alone is much less fre- quent than fracture of both bones ; indeed, when the size of the tibia is compared with that of the fibula, and the close connection of these bones to each other is remembered, an opinion might be formed that the first could never be broken with- out the second. Experience, however, proves the contrary; and reasons for this fact may be deduced from the consideration, that the tibia is the bone which supports the weight of the body, and that it IS situated at the fore part of the limb, simply covered by the skin, and much exposed to the effects of direct violence. (See Boyer, Mai. Chir t. ui. p. 373.) Fractures at any point of the two upper thirds of the tibia can scarcely happen, except from direct violence, as that from a gunshot wound, a blow, or the passage of a heavy body over the leo-. But the lower fourth is exposed both to the action of direct causes, and to fractures by contre-coup as they are termed, like those which happen froi^ a lall on the sole of the foot from a considerable height. Fractures of the lower end of the tibia alone are not common ; the fibula being almost always broken at the same time. (&«sok, Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Pratiques, t. viii. p. 557.) When the tibia alone is broken, the fracture is frequently transverse. When the injury happens near the knee, the great extent of the fractured surfaces prevents any considerable displacement of the fragments ; and the fibula, acting as a support on the external side, contributes also to this effect. Boyer, however, saw one instance in which the tibia had been broken by the kick of a horse, and the fragments displaced in the direction of the axis of the bone, which displacement could not be rectified, and the bone remained permanently arched. [Sometimes there may be a fracture of the upper extremity of the tibia above the tibio-fibular articulation. Sir A. Cooper speaks of an oblique Iracture of the upper extremity of the tibia, some- times extending into the knee-joint and some- times not. When the fracture is just below the joint, but not extending into it, the lower portion lias a tendency to be drawn upwards on one side or other of the knee-joint, according as the obli- quity takes a direction inwards or outwards. (See 1!''^r,^^"^!lV'' '^'^ ^^x^ocations, ^-c. B. Cooper's cd. V- ^oO.) When there is an oblique fracture of the ^IT^'.,'"', r "^"^ knee-joint,the smaller b it If '^'"8'"?"/ is "si'ally not much displaced, tl e tl'P "'"^•■^^''^ "P»" t'-e rest of ''iJtnined. As m the fracture of the condyles of the femur into the joint, great swelling and inflam- mation of the knee rapidly supervene, and perma- nent stdtness is very likely to result.] The absence of displacement sometimes obscures the diagnosis of fractui-es of the tibia, and the diffi- culty IS further increased by the little pain and in- convenience occasionally attending such a fracture, with which the patient has been known even to walk. Whenever there is reason to suspect the acci- dent in consequence of a blow or a fall on the lee the part should be minutely examined. The' fingers are to be moved along the anterior surface and sharp edge of the tibia, the slightest inequality in which may be easily perceived, on account of their being covered only by the skin; and the mo- tion of the pieces may be distinguished, by grasp- ing the opposite ends of the bone, and pushina them m contrary directions. However, this motion" and the crepitus, are not always very plain, on account of the fibula not allowing the fractured portions to be sufficiently moved on one another Treatment.~Yl\Q treatment of a fracture of the tibia alone should be conducted in the same man- ner as a fracture of both bones; but there is usually not much tendency to displacement, and the case is therefore more easily manageable. Lateral splints may be used, or Liston's modifica- tion of M'Intyre's apparatus; the latter will pro- bably be found more comfortable to the patient. After a few days, when the inflammation has sub- sided, the starch bandage may be substituted for the splints, and the patient may be allowed to move about on crutches.] In an oblique fracture of the head of the tibia extending into the knee-joint. Sir A. Cooper re- commends the straight position, because the femur preserves the proper adaptation of the fractured tibia by serving as a splint to its upper portion, and keeping the articular surfaces in apposition. [Probably a slightly flexed position would answer equally well, and be less likely to be followed by permanent stiffness of the joint.] A roller is to be used for pressing one fragment towards the other; a pasteboard splint is "also to be applied with the same view ; and early passive motion of the joint is to be practised, in order to prevent ankylosis. When the fracture is oblique, but does not reach into the joint, he prefers placing the limb on the double inclined plane, for, the cause of the deformity being the elevation of the lower portion of the tibia, the weight of th- leg keeps the limb constantly extended as it hangs over the angle of the inclined plane, and thus the bone is brought into as accurate apposition as the nature of the fracture permits. {On Dishcaiions, ^0. B. Cooper's cd. p. 250.) Fractures of the Fibula. Fractures of the fibula are divided b3''Dupu3'- tren, Boyer, and all the best writers on this sub- ject, into two kinds : first, those in which the force is applied directly to the bone itself; secondly, the more frequent and important cases, in which the force operates upon the fibula, through the medium of the foot. In the first kind the fracture may happen at any part of the bone ; in the second variety it is very rarely more than three inches above the extremity of the malleolus cx- tcrnus. Diipiiytren states that of 207 fractures of