'^^^ DISLOCATION. comparison, liowever, made without this ndvantaee, will generally enable the surgeon to form a correct opinion. The proper length of a dislocated limb cannot be restored, except by putting the bone back into the cavity from which it has slipped. In general, this cannot be accomplished without considerable efforts, while a slight exertion is usually sufKcient to restore the proper length of the limb in cases where the shortening depends upon a fracture. Also when once the natural length of the limb has been restored in dislocations, it remains ; while, in fractures, the shortening recurs as soon as the extension is discontinued. As for elongation of the limb, it can never happen in cases of fracture, as it does in certain dislocations. 2. In many eases the direction of the axis of the limb is unavoidably altered. This circumstance arises from the resistance of that portion of the ar- ticular ligaments, which has not been ruptured, as well as from the action of the muscles. In dis- location of orbicular joints, the tension of certain muscles is a cause of a rotatory movement of the dislocated limb at the moment of the displacement, and which it afterwards retains. Thus in dislo- cations of the thigh bone at the hip, the toes and knee are turned outward or inward, according as the head of the bone happens to be situated at the inside or outside of the joint. The alteration in the length of the part, and in its position generally, is permanent when it depends upon a dislocation ; whereas in fractures the same changes occur, but can be made to cease at once, without any parti- cular effort. 3. The absolute immobility of a limb, or, at least, the inability of performing certain motions, is amongst the most characteristic symptoms of a dislocation. In complete luxations of some gin- glymoid joints, the dislocated limb is absolutely, or very nearly, incapable of any motion. Thus, in the dislocation of the forearm backwards, the particular disposition of the bones, and the extreme tension of the extensor and flexor muscles, confine the limb in the half-bent state, and at the same time resist every spontaneous motion, and likewise almost every motion which is communicated. In the orbicular joints, the painful tension of the muscles, which surround the luxated bone, nearly impedes all spontaneous movements ; but, in ge- neral, analogous motions to that by which the displacement was produced, can be communicated to the limb, though not without exciting pain. Thus, in the dislocation of the humerus downward, the elbow hardly admits of being put near the side, nor of being carried forward, and backward ; but it can easily be raised up. In the dislocation of the acromial end of the clavicle, the patient can bring the arm towards the trunk, separate it a little from the side, or carry it forward or back- ward ; but he cannot raise it in a direct way. Lastly, in complete lateral dislocations of such joints as have alternate motions, the patient has the power of performing no motion of the part; but the complete destruction of all the means of union allows the limb to obey everj^ species of extraneous impulse. Sometimes, as Sir. A. Cooper has remarked, a considerable degree of motion continues for a short time: thus, in a man, brought into Guy's ITos- PU;il, whose tbigii-bone had just been dislocated into the foramen ovale, a great mobility of tlic fe- mur still remained ; but, "in less than three hours it became firmly fixed in its new situation by contraction of the muscles." (Surffical Esso th.^'lii?/!K°''''''°"',''"^"^''^ '"'^^ elongation of the limb the general and uniform tension of ail the muscles arranged along it, gives to these orgai s an appearance as if they lay nearer the circum- erence of the bone and the limb were smaller than Its fellow. The muscles, however, whi ' belong to the side, from which the dislocat bone has become more distant, appear ten.ci and harder. On the contrary, in dislocations, where the limb is shortened, tlie muscles are re- laxed ; but being irritated, they contract and ac- commodate themselves to the shortened state of le limb Hence the extraordinary swelling of their fleshy part, and the manifestly increased dia- meter of the portion of the member to which they belong. We have a striking example of this in the dislocation of the thigh upward and outward, where the muscles at the inner side of the limb form a dis- tinct oblong tumor. In dislocations of the thigh, the glutajus maximus on the same side is flattened 11 the bone is carried inward ; but it is more pro- minent when the thigh-bone is carried outward • and Its lower edge is situated higher, or lower, than in the natural state, according as the luxation may have taken place upward or downward. In the complete luxation of the forearm backward, the triceps is tense, and forms a cylindrical promi- nence, owing to the displacement of the olecranon backward. The form of the joints principally depends upon tlie shape of the heads of the bones. Hence the natiu-al relation of the bones to each other cannot be altered, without a change being immediately produced m the external form of the joint. The changes, which the muscles passing over the luxated joint undergo at the same time in their situation and direction, contribute likewise to destroy the harmony of the outlines of the linib. When the head of a bone has slipped out of the articular cavity, it may often be felt in its new situation, while at the articulation itself may be remarked a flatness caused by one of the neigh- bouring muscles stretched over the articular cavity, and more deeply the outline and depression of this' cavity itself can be perceived. The bony emi- nences, situated near the joint, and whose outlines were gradually cftaced in the general form of the member, are sometimes rendered more apparent by the displacement, and project, in a stronger degree, than in the natural state, while, in other instances, they project less, and become more con- cealed. On this part of the subject, Sir. A. Cooper is particularly correct, when he observes, that the head of the bone can generally be felt in its new situation, excepting in some of the dislocations of the hip, and its rotation is often tlie best criterion of the accident. T/ie natural jiromincnccs of bone, near the joint, citlicr disajijiear, or become less con- spicuous, as the trochanter at the hi})-joint. Some- times the reverse occurs.; for in dislocations of the shoulder, the acromion jirnjects more than usual. (Surg. JEssays, part i. p. 4.) The lines, made by the contour of the limb, and the natural relation of the bones, are so manifestly broken in dislocations of ginglymoid joints, that, when there is no inflaininatory swelling, the case is at once manifest. Alorc certain knowledge,