690 FRACTURE any other means. This is exemplified in fractures of the clavicle, cases in which, as well as several others, we see no splints at all employed, the re- quisite position of the arm and shoulder being maintained with a sling roller and pad in the axilla. Even in some cases where a splint is em- ployed, it only operates by fixing the limb in the desirable position, as illustrated in fractures of the olecranon. In these last cases we also use me- chanical means to keep the upper fragment from ascending too far ; but, in other instances, position and quietude are the only principles in operation, as in the treatment of fractures of the coracoid and acromion processes of the scapula. Here the relaxation of the musfles by position, and quietude of the shoulder, are the only essential things to be attended to, and, whatever mechanical means are employed, are not designed to act directly on the broken parts of the bone. Occasionally, the application of splints, band- ages, and other mechanical means should be defer- red. This is proper in fractures near joints, as of the olecranon, patella, &c. where the inflammation and swelling prohibit any compression of the part. Under such circumstances, the first indication is to subdue the inflammation by means of cold applica- tions, bleeding, &c., care being taken, however, to lay the limb in a judicious position. B'leans for preventing and removing ilie unfavour- able symptoms liable to arise from fractures. — After having reduced the fracture, applied the apparatus for maintaining the reduction, and put the part in an advantageous position, the practitioner is to attend to another indication, viz. the preven- tion and removal of any unfavourable symptoms. With the exception of a few simple fractures of the upper extremity, it is proper to allow for the first few days only very low diet. When the patient is young and strong, and the swellingand inflammation considerable,venesection may possiblyin some cases berequired. In other circumstances, it should bedis- pensed with, because it is well known that, for the quick formation of callus, by which the fracture is to be united, strength and a vigorous circulation are highly favourable. The patient may be per- mitted to drink as often, and as much as he likes, of any cooling acid beverage. The low diet is only to be continued the first few days, unless great inflammation arise ; for experience proves that the method, when too much prolonged, has bad efi"ects, and tends, on the same principle as bleeding, to retard the union of the fracture. Costiveness is to be obviated by the use of mild aperient medicines. It must be confessed, how- ever, that in fractures of the lower extremity, the disturbance of the limb caused by the patient's be- ing obliged to move himself, after taking a purg- ative, is seriously objectionable ; but perhaps in all, and certainly in some, habits, the neglect to open the bowels soon after the accident would have still more pernicious consequences. In order to lessen the disturbance, a bed-pan should be in- troduced under the patient. Here, also, I feel it my duty to recommend to the notice of the pro- fession a very complete fracture-bed invented by ray friend, Mr. Earle. One great convenience of this bed, the cost of which is moderate, is to enable the patient to void his foeces without the tliglitest change of position, or disturbance ; an object effected by the simple contrivance of a little kind trap, opening under the bed, out of which a small portion of the mattress admits of bein" v.'iih- drawn, and a tin receptacle is placed for the"recep- tion of what is voided from the bowels and blad- der. Some other advantages of this apparatus will be hereafter briefly mentioned. With respect to external applications, we should carefidly avoid using all such plasters and oint- ments as irritate the skin, or create a disagreeable itching ; for they sometimes bring on erysipelas. In some cases, and especially in summerj it is a good plan for the first few days to wet the bandages with cold water ; for in this way the tendency to inflammation and swelling may be considerably lessened. The surgeon, however, should recollect, that the bandage shrinks when wet, and may become so tight as to do harm, if not attended to. Solutions of the acetate of lead make the bandages stiff and hard ; and as they are perhaps not more efficacious than cold water alone, the latter should be preferred. When a fracture is well set, the position of the part right, and the bandage and splints neither too tight nor too slack, the less the broken bone is moved, and the less the apparatus and dressings are disturbed, the better. Sometimes, however, the practitioner is obliged to take off the splints, and undo the bandage, in order to ascertain that the ends of the fracture lie in even contact. Were he to leave the splints on the part too long, with- out ever being sure of this important point, he might find, when too late for alteration, that the fracture was in a state of displacement, and the limb seriously deformed. Hence, one reason for employing the eighteen-tailed bandage, or an ap- paratus like that of M'Intj-re's, which admits of being opened without disturbing the limb, or even without lifting it from the surface upon which it has been deposited. In fractures of the lower extremities, particularly of the legs, it sometimes happens, the first two or three nights after the reduction, that the limb is affected with spasms, which displace the ends of the bone. Here, if the patient be young and strong, let blood be taken from the arm, the bowels be emptied, and opium or morphia prescribed ; strict attention being also paid to restore the ends of the fracture to a right position again. If thej' cannot be kept in e.xactly a good posture at first, they will admit of being so, after a few days, when the tendency to spasm has diminished. When the callus has acquired some firmness, the patient should still keep the part or limb quiet, until the union is perfectly consolidated. And, in fractures of the lower extremity, even after the union has proceeded so far that the splints admit of being left off, the patient ought not to venture to get out of bed, or bear upon the limb, till several more days have elapsed. All fractures, however simple and well treated thej' may be, are constantly followed by weakness and stifftiess of the limb. These unpleasant con- sequences are the greater, the more violently the limb has been contused, the nearer the fracture is to a joint, and the longer the part has remained motionless, and witliout exercise. The stiffness always affects the inferior joint of the broken bone, much more than the superior. For the relief of those effects of fractures, it is customary to employ friction, liniments, emollient applications, cold washes and bathing ; but sometimes, notwith- standing such remedies, the member does not