3 Y 2 It is not, therefore, the difficulty or impossibility of swallowing liquids, but the eifects of the poison upon the constitution at large which occasion death. (Dr. J. Hunter in Trans, for the Improvement of Med. Knoiotedge, vol. i. p. 305.) In the second stage, the epigastrium, as well as the chest, is the seat of considerable pain; the patient is constipated, but the urine is plentiful and high coloured. [In 25 cases the temperature was normal: 3 patients were bathed in sweat: in one the sweat was foetid : in one it was cold. The pupils were dilated to a variable degree in 50 ca.ses, a point of some diagnostic value; 5 times theywere contracted; once rapidly nictitating. (Teale, Med. Times and Gazette, Sept. 1856.) Once there was spasm of the pupil. ( Wagner.) The symptom of harking, to which the popular mind clings with tenacity, was never authentically developed; but Wagner notes that, under the influence of respiratory spasm, raucous cries were uttered, which heightened imagination might so interpret. Three times a hoarse spasmodic hiccough was especially noted. The duration of life from the appearance" of hj-drophobia till death varies from twelve hours to seven or even nine days. Of upwards of 200 patients in whom the duration has been noted, 30 percent, died on the second day, 14 per cent, died on the third daj', and ^ per cent, died on the first day. Death takes place by asphyxia during violent convulsions, or sometimes quietly by ex- haustion and blood-poisoning after the ability to swallow has returned. _ The diagnosis of hydrophobia, when once the disease is fully manifested, ought never to be diffi- cult. It has been thought to resemble tetanus, but from this it is distinguished by the horror of fluids, the excessive sensibility to draughts of air, sound or touch of fluids, the excessive reflex action and general psychical symptoms, together with the his- tory of a bite. Undoubtedly, however, many cases have been recorded as hydrophobia, especially among the earlier narratives, in which these symptoms ■were very imperfectly developed, and which did not deserve that title. And even in modern times, out of 333 recorded cases, Tarahayn is dis- posed to eliminate 37, observing that hypochon- driasis alone produced 12 : in 25 others no bite was proved. In 2, laryngitis acuta was found. Hysteria in 1, and several spinal and cerebral affections in various cases. Romberg {Nervous Disorders, translated for Sydenham Society) is of the opinion that hydrophobia, as a symptom of other affections, essentially differs fnmi other diseases in the fact that, in the former, paroxysms take place spon- taneously both day and night, when the patient is sleeping or waking, and that such paroxysms de- pend far more upon respiratory spasm than upon impediments in rswallowing.] On the subject of prognosis, with respect to the bite inflicted by a rabid animal, and its effects, as evinced in the decided form of rabies, there are seve.al things worthy of attention. According to some writers, small wounds are not less dangerous than others, and an attempt is made to account for the fact, by the more copious haimorrhage from larger wounds, and the frequent neglect of lesser in- juries : periiaps another reason is, that the virus is more likely to bo confined in a wound with a small orifice, than in [one which is ample and admits, of being [more frequently washed. The HYDROPHOBIA. ^059 [ more numeroas the wounds are, the greater is the risk. If it be inquired what is the average number of persons attacked with rabies out of a given number who have received bites, the question can only be ansvi^ered by referring to the extremes. Thus Dr. J. Vaughan speaks of between 20 and 30 individuals bitten by a mad dog, of whom only 1 was afterwards attacked with rabies, and Dr. J. Hunter tells us of an instance, in which out of 21 persons bitten, only 1 became aflitcted. (See also Fothergill, On Med. Obs. and Inq. vol. V. p. 195.) On the other hand, out of 15 persons bitten by a mad dog, and taken care of at Senlis, 3 at least were seized with the disorder. (Hist, de la Soc. Roy. de Med. p. 130.) Of 17 others bitten by a wolf, 10 were attacked {ib. p. 130), and of 23 bitten by a she-wolf, 13 died of rabies. {L. F. Trolliet, Nouveau Traiti de la Rage, ^o. Obs. Chir. ^c. No. 25.) Two important facts should also be recollected; viz:—the disease may often be prevented; it can hardly ever be cured. Experience has fully ' proved, that when hydrophobia once begins, it generally pursues its dreadful course to a fatal termination; the records of medicine furnishing very few unequivocal and well authenticated cases to the contrary. [As to the question of prognosis it may be observed, after minutely examining the recorded cases, that in many instances the occur- rence of hydrophobia has been prevented after unequivocal precursory symptoms have appeared and occasionally the threatened attack has been more than once averted in the same patient. On this point the remarks of Dr. Elliotson {Lancet, May, 1829), may be consulted with profit. He relates two cases which seem in themselves perfectly satisfactory. Youatt has satisfied himself of the same fact in treating rabies canina { Youatt, On the Dog, Table III.) Smith quotes six cases, in which he considers that the most cautious statistician must admit that in a part at least, genuine hydrophobia was present and yet recovery followed. In the first case ( W. Grant G Doane, Med. Gaz. July 10, 1830), the treatinent was by purgatives, stimulants, &c.; in the second {T. Tompkin, E. G. Vai-enne, Lancet, Aug. 1835), by purgatives, arsenic, and■ local incision; in the' third, by purgatives, leeches, aud opiates (De Heaume, Med. Gaz. Dec. 1837); in the fourth purgatives, calomel, and opiates {Dr. Hooper, Med Times, May 17, 1847); in the fifth, by calomel and incision {Haines, Lancet, 1847); in the sixth by opiates, anaesthetics, and excision of the cicatrix! {Prof. Jac/cson, Amer. Journ. 1849.) These cases are described carefully by indepen- dent observers; they presented the most strikinc . ./ r - —w ...v<oi, SlllKlUff dentity of symptoms with other cases of hydro phobia. In all six the part bitten was the centre from which the symptoms took their origin, and in tour there seems no doubt that the dogs which in- flicted the bite were rabid. Wo may then prob- ably from this deduce that, although hydrophobia is fatal in so overwhelming a majority of cases asto leave no reasonable hope for those aftected yet in rare instances recoverymayoccur.] Hence, too,thero may be deduced the imperious necessity of usinc every possible means for the prevention of the disorder. Probably, Iiowever, many things which possess the character of bemg preventive of hydrophobia have no real claim to such reputation. I would