AMPUTATION. 54 mote it by the feeble means formerly employed. But, as the mortified parts, previously to their de- tachment, caused great annoyance by their fetor, a surgical attempt was at length made to get rid of them ; in doing which, the knife was always kept from touching the living flesh, on account of a well-grounded fear of bleeding, for the suppres- sion of which no effectual methods were known. Such was the practice that prevailed from Hippo- crates down to Celsus. {Erfahr. S,-o, uber die Amp. p. 14.) A. C. Celsus, who lived in the reign of Tibe- rius, and whose book, De Re Medica, should be read by every surgeon, has left us a shoit descrip- tion of the mode of amputating gangrenous limbs. (Lib. vii. c. 33.) It has been often remarked, that Celsus has left no instructions for securing the di- vided blood-vessels ; but it has not been commonly noticed, that, in his chapter on wounds, he directs us to stop hemorrhage by taking hold of the ves- sels, then tying them in two places, and dividing the intermediate portion. If this measure cannot be adopted, he advises the use of a cauterizing iron. Several hints are to be met with in the writ- ings of Celsus, from which it may be inferred, that the ligature of bleeding vessels was sometimes practised at the early age in which he lived ; and this supposition is strengthened, by a fragment of Archigenes, preserved by Cocchius, on the sub- ject of amputation, where he speaks of tying, or "sewing, the blood-vessels. We are not, however, iu possession of all the writings of medical authors, prior to the time of Galen, and must therefore remain in doubt upon this point. (Rees''s Ci/clo- poidia, art. Amputation.) It has been argued, therefore, with some appear- ance of reason, that if amputation often proved fatal in the days of Celsus,—" S£epe in ipso opere," as the expression is, — it was owing to the want of some efficacious method of compressing the blood- vessels during the operation itself But, admitting that the ancients were not alto- gether uninformed of the plan of tying arteries, it cannot be credited that they adopted the practice to any extent ; for, if they had, they would not have continued so partial to the cautery, boiling cils, and a farrago of astringent applications. They would also never have had recourse to the barbarous method of cutting the flesh with a red- hot knife, with the view of stopping the hemor- rhage by converting the whole surface of the stump into an eschar. Painful in its execution, and horrid in its consequence, as this burning oper- ation was, it seldom proved a lasting antidote to the bleeding, which generally carae on in a fatal manner, as soon as the sloughs were loose. On this part of the subject my own ideas fully agree with those of a distinguished foreign surgeon, who says, that although the docmnent left us may prove that the ligature was known to the ancients, and employed in cases of aneurisms and wounded blood-vessels, nay, that the arteries were secured with a needle and ligature ; yet the practice could not have been extended to the operation of am- putation, since, with the custom of making the incisions, in the dead parts, tlie method scarcely admitted of being put in execution. {Drtinning- hauseu, Erfahr. uher die Ampnl. p. 29.) At the period of making tiio nicisiDu, the an- cients contented themselves with having the skin forcibly drawn upward by an assistant j tiiey next divided, with one sweep of the knife, the integu- ments and flesh down to the bone, and, afterwards, sawed the bone on a level with the soft parts which were drawn upward. Celsus considered it better to let the incision encroach upon the living flesh, than leave any of the diseased parts behind. ^^Eipotius ex san&parte aliquid excidatur, quam ex csgrd relinquatur." (Z)c Medicina, lib, vii. c. 33.) It appears, however, that his views extended further than those of most of his contemporaries, and even his followers, almost dov/n to modern times. After cutting the muscle down to the bone, he says, that the flush should he reflected, awl de- tached underneath with a scalpel, in order to de- nude a portion of the hone which is then to be sawn as near as possible to the healthp flesh, which remains adherent. He states that, when this plan is pursued, the shin around the ivound will be so loose, that it can almost be made to cover the ex- tremity of the bone. It is to be lamented, that this advice inculcated by Celsus, should not have been comprehended or that it should have been so neg- lected as to stand in need, as it were, of a new discoverer. But, the fact is, that hemorrhage for- merly rendered amputation so dangerous that the ancient surgeons could not devote much attention to anything else in the operation, and practi- tioners amputated so seldom, that we read in Albucasis, that he positively refused to cut oft' a person's hand, lest a fatal hemorrhage should ensue, and the patient did it himself and recovered. Over that part of the stump which the small quan- tity of preserved skiu would not cover, Celsus recommended compresses, and a sponge dipped in vinegar to be laid. (-De Re Medica, lib. vii. c. 33.) Archigenes, born at Apamia in Syria, was the disciple of Agathinus, and physician to Philip, king of that country. He repaired to Rome, where he practised physic and surgery in the reign of the emperor Trajan, abour 108 years after the birth of Christ. {Portal. Hist, de VAnalomie et de la Chirurgie, t. i. p. 61.) In the history of amputation, the name of Archigenes is con- spicuous ; for he is supposed to have been the first to apply a circular ligature to the limb : he also wetted the whole member with cold water, for the prevention of loss of blood; and it is sometimes believed that he entertained some notion of pre- viously taking up the vessels. Dupuytren observes, however, that this is very doubtful, because it would imply such anatomical knowledge of the circulation as did not exist at the early period alluded to. Archigenes imitated Celsus in the important point of makiuR the incisions in the sound flesh. {Nicet. Coll. Chir. p. 155 ; Sprem/cl, Geschichle do Chir. h. i. p. 404. Halle, 1«05.) Sucfi was likewise the practice of Heliodorus, who at this early period made objections to the plan of cutting off a limb by a single stroke a proposal that was renewed in far later days. The same author has also spoken of ampu- tating at the joints ; a method of which he disap- proves. {Nicet. Coll. Chir. p. 155.) However, Galen entertained a favourable opunon of it. {Com. 4, in lib. de Artie, p. fioO.) Galen's pre- cepts concerning amputation are, upon the wli Ic, very like those of Hippocrates ; for he directs only the dead parts to be cut, and the stump to be cauterized. {De Arte CurafivA ad Glauconem. lib. ii.) By all the old writers, amputation was