398 CANCER. night, and the' following draught twice a day : 3f> Villi ferri 3j. Amnion. Carbon, gr. vij. Aq. Menth. Vir, ^j. Tinct. Cardam. c. Jss. He also approves of anodynes for the relief of the suffer- ing ; as the tinct. opli, the liquor opii sedativus, or the black drop, combined with the camphor mixture, and a little of the spir. aetheris comp. One of his patients derived much relief from the following pill: ^f> Ext. Stramonii gr.i Camph. gr. ij. M. ft, Pii. i3is. terve in die sumend. (See Lectures, 4'c. vol. ii. p. 193.) The old surgeons dressed cancerous sores with narcotic applications. Vesalius used cloths dipped in the juice of the solanum ; whilst others employed it mixed with oil of roses, and preparations of lead and antimony. Others had recourse to hyoscia- mus, or hemlock poultices, which in many cases, as Mr. J. Burns observes, have abated pain, and diminished fetor ; but this is all which can reason- ably be expected. He thinks carrot poultices better than those of hemlock, as they produce as much ease, and more powerfully diminish the fetor. Sir Astley Cooper has no confidence in the utility of evaporating lotions. Warm applications he also represents as improper. The dressing, which he mostly prefers for scirrhi is a plaster, made by blending jj. of the extract of belladonna with Jj. of soap cerate. When inflammation is present, he does not object to the use of leeches. All local applications, as well as internal medicines, he considers merely as palliatives. The fetor of cancers having been thought to resemble that of the sulphuret of potash (liver of sulphur), and the oxygenated muriatic acid being the best agent for decomposing and destroying such smell, it has been recommended as an appli- cation to cancerous sores. It may correct the fetor, but it will never accomplish a cure. Carbonic acid has been said not only to correct the fetor, but, in some instances, completely to cure the disease. It was long ago proposed, says Mr. J. Burns, by Peyriihe, and was again brought forward by Dr. Ewart. Experience, however, has not shown that the efficacy of carbonic acid, in cases of cancer, is very great. Fourcroy remarks : " After the first applications, the cancerous sore appears to assume a more favourable aspect ; the sanies which flows from it becomes whiter, thicker, and purer, and the flesh has a redder and fresher colour ; but these flattering appearances are deceitful, nor do they continue long, for the sore speedily returns to its former state, and its progress goes on as before the application." The method of applying carbo- nic acid was by means of a bladder, the mouth of which fastened round the sore with adhesive plaster. The air was introduced by a pipe, in- serted at the other end. Sometimes the fermenting poultice is employed. That iodine commonly fails, is now universally admitted, and this even in very large doses. (See Paper by Dr. Ruclianan of Glasyoiv, in Lo7id. Med. Gas. of Oct. 1836.) Tar ointment, gastric juice, absorbent powders, &c. have been tried ; but without any evident good. (See J, Burns, On Liflammation, vol. ii.) Mr. Pearon rejected all internal remedies, as inefficient in the treatment of cancer, and, in the early stages of the complaint, recommended a method of practice founded on his idea of the in- flammatory nature of the disease. " In the begin- ning of scirrhous affections of the breast and testis, the mode I have adopted of taking away blood, is by leeches repeatedly applied to the parts. In this course, however, I have often been inter- rupted by the topical inflammation produced by tliese animals around the parts where they fasten- ed. In delicate female habits, I have often lost a week, before I could proceed to the re-application of them. When the symptoms lead me to suspect the stomach, uterus, or any of the viscera to be so affected that the complaint either is, or most pro- bably, soon will become cancerous, I then have recourse to general bleedings. But whether to- pical or general, perseverance for a sufficient length of time is necessarj"-. Though the pulse never in- dicated such practice, yet the patients have not suffered by repeated bleedings ; on the contrar}', when they passed a certain time without losing blood, they felt a return of their symptoms, and, of their own accord, desired to be bled again. To this plan of repeated bleedings, I joined a milk and vegetable diet, avoiding wine, spirits, and fermented liquors." Mr. Fearoii used also to keep the bell}' open, and employ satm-nine applications. Methodical compression was first recommended and practised in this country, as a means of curing cancer, by Young ; and the same practice was afterwards put to the test of experience in the Middlesex Hospital ; from which institution the report of Sir Charles Bell tends to prove, that compression, applied either to scirrhous or to ulcerated cancer, is decidedly hurtful. MM. Bre- schet and Ferrus also came to the same conclusion. (See Diet, de Med. 1822.) The principal advocate for it, at present, is M. Re'camier, who attributes the failures of it in the Middlesex Hospital to its not having been applied in a suitable manner, nor modified according to the stages of the disease. M. Re'camier combines likewise the administration of hemlock with a very low diet, without which he observes that the latter medicine produces scarcely any effect. (See Reclierches sur le Trai- tement du Cancer par la Compression, Simple on Combinee, 8vo. 2 tomes, Paris, 1829.) I lately tried Recamier's plan in a case of scirrhus in the North London Hospital ; but it seemed only to accelerate the conversion of the disease into open cancer. From the preceding accounts we may infer that no reliance is to be placed on any known remedy, or plan, in cases of real scirrhi and ulcerated can- cers. The operation is the only rational chance of getting rid of the disease ; and to waste time, so as to allow the disorder to increase in a serious degree, merely for the sake of trying various un- promising medicines, is conduct unworthy of a wise surgeon's imitation. Perhaps, in the early stage, it may be right to make trial of arsenic, conium, prepar.ations of iron, or those of iodine, and of friction, with the oint- ment of the hydriodato of potass. In this country the ointment employed varies in strength from 9j. to 3iss of the hydriodate to each ounce of lard. Graefe is alleged to have succeeded in bringing about an absorption of the whole of the diseased breast, by applying an ointment composed of 5j. of hydriodate of potass, and ^ij. of lard. Mr. Hill, of Chester, has recorded one case very favourable to trials of iodine. The cancer was in the ulcerated state. He dressed it with .an ointment consisting of 3j. of the hydriodate to Jj. of lard ; and gave the patient internally thirty drops at a time of a solu-