386 CANCER. and stages of development ; some of them forming great parent structures with endogenous corpuscles. The vessels are, for the most part, colossal, very thin-walled capillaries. At the beginning of the disease, the villi are simple and close-pressed, so that the surface appears only granulated, as Clarke describes it; it becomes cauliflower-like by the branching of the papillae, which at last grow out to fringes an inch long, and may present almost the appearance of an hydatid mole. After the process has existed for some time on the surface, the can- croid alveoli begin to form deep between the layers of the muscular and the connective tissues of the organ." On this Mr. Paget justly remarks, " that which he (Virchow) calls the simple papillary tu- mor is an e.xcessive outgrowth of epithelial cancer; the later stage of the same, when it passes into cancroid, is the usual extension of such a cancer into deeper parts — a continuous growth of the same thing in a new direction." Some cauliflower excrescences seem, however, to be rather of medul- lary than epithelial character. An epitlielial cancer, in a state of ulceration, might be confounded with a rodent ulcer, a term which best expresses such diseased conditions as have been called noli me tangere, cancroid ulcer, ulcus exedens. In that the ulceration is constantly progressive, extending to and destroying the most various tissues, and even the bones ; it is much like unto cancer, but it ditfers in these notable particulars :—the lymphatic glands do not become affected; it does not recur if completely destroyed; it is not associated with similar disease in other parts, and there is no layer of special morbid sub- stance surrounding it, and forming its base; the bordering tissues are merely infiltrated with com- mon exudation matter. I think it cannot be de- nied that these ulcers, though certainly not iden- tical with cancerous, do yet show a real affinity with them; they belong to an intermediate place in the series between the cancerous irapaSeiyiia and the innocent ulcer of ordinary inflammation. They form a good example of the truth of the statement that what we cannot see is far more im- portant than that which we can see. Mr. Paget states that ulcers with prominent warty growths may imitate exactly to the naked eye the appear- ance of epithelial cancer, no cancerous elements, however, being discoverable with the microscope. Dr. Bennett is inclined to separate epithelial can- cer from the other species, distinguishing it as epithelial cancroid growth, and not considering it as truly cancerous (see p. 181 of his work). He coincides with Prof. Simpson in the conclusion that cauliflower excrescence of the os uteri ratiier belongs to the class of simple papillary growths, as condylommata and soft warts, than to carcinoma. In this view (as an exclusive one) I cannot join, believing rather with Simon that "epithelial cancer is, in regard of its function, as true a cancer as any;" though not, on the other hand, adopting Velpeau's teaching entirely, "that epithelial cancer is one of those which returns with the greatest ob- stinacy, both at its original seat, and in the neigh- bourhood, and even far distant." One of Dr. Ben- nett's own cases, obs. Ivi., shows, in its fatal sequel, that a " cancroid'' may bo to all intents and purposes a cancer. The male sex is liable to this form of cancer, compared with the female, in the ratio of 86 to 19. The tendency to the production of epithelial cancer increases with advancing age. Injury, or some previous morbid condition of the affected part, is found in an unusually large proportion of cases of this cancer—in 19 out of 34, according to Mr. Paget's figures. " It is," he says, " as if it were necessary that the part should be considerably changed in structure before it is appropriate for a cancerous growth." This fits in well with the acknowledged less intensity of the constitutional element of the disease in epithelial cancer. If a lip, for instance, be constantly irritated by the contact of a pipe, or a scrotum by soot, these parts are very apt to become the seat of warty develop- ment, which often proceeds to something worse. " No primary cachexia can be observed " before the appearance of epithelial cancer, and that which occurs subsequently is not more than would result from the severity of the morbid action. The rate of progress in this disease may be very slow, or very rapid. The general opinion is that the lym- phatic glands are less prone to be affected in this form of cancer than in others. On this point there is much discrepancy between the observations of Mr. Paget and Lebert and Hannover. The former finds the glands diseased 20 times in 42 cases. The others not oftener, if so often, as 3 times in 60. I feel much inclined to think that this difference arises from the circumstance that the continental observers have ranked many instances of simple non-cancerous epithelial growths together with actual epithelial cancer. Rokitansky describes epithelial cancer as not un- frequently becoming destroyed more or less com- pletely by saniation, and undergoing therewith a more or less perfect cure; its place being occupied by tendinous contracting cicatrices. The cancer mass may wither up into a yellow crumbling tubercle- like detritus. One of the most frequent changes, according to Rokitansky, is to the so-called choles- teatoma, the epidermic cells losing their nuclei, and becoming filled with fluid, and yellow granular fat, and cholesterine.] [Colloid Cancer.] [Its "most frequent primary seats are the sto- mach, the intestinal canal, uterus, mammary gland, and peritoneum ; as a secondary disease, it affects most frequently the lymphatic glands and lungs, and may occur in other parts." {Paget.) Dr. Walshe thus describes the naked-ej'e appear- ance of colloid :—" The cut surface is divided into a vast number of distinct loculi, regularly arranged, of an oval or rounded shape, varying in size from that of a grain of sand to the largest pea. Tli.' septa composing the walls of these loculi possess distinctly fibrous characters ; their thickness is pretty uniform throughout; occasionally, however, they are broader in some situations than in others; in this case, the thicker septa may generally bo found to give off productions forming the walls ol secondary loculi, and these again others, constitut- ing a tertiary order. The loculi sometimes form shut sacs, in other instances communicate with the circumjacent cells; it is not very unusual to observe some of these loculi in which the walls seem to have collapsed, and almost coalesced from the re- moval of the contained matter. In point of con- sistence, a colloid mass, of which the loculi are perfect, usually resembles firm cheese, but may be much Iiarder. The general colour of the divided surface is greenish yellow, the tint being mainly