HEAD, INJURIES OF THE, matter has been discharged on the surface of the dura mater, it is the duty of the surgeon to punc- ture this membrane, provided tiie pressure is unrelieved, and tlie membrane is altered in cha- racter; as a cerebral abscess may exist beneath, and the escape of matter may save the patient's life. If, however, the opening is made into the arachnoid cavity, vre cannot anticipate much benefit: if well-formed pus escape, the prognosis is more favourable than where the fluid is of a sero-purulent character, for the latter is charac- teristic of diffused arachnoid inflammation, the former of a circumscribed collection of matter. But, perhaps, the membrane has been punc- tured, and no matter is discovered, either circum- scribed or diffused; and the opening is found then filled by the rising up of the brain itself. What is to be done under these circumstances ? In other words, are we to puncture the brain itself, and to explore it with the grooved needle ? This question is not so readily answered, for the diag- nosis of cerebral abscess is by no means easy; indeed, there is so much difiiculty and uncertainty on the subject that prudence dictates the greatest caution. We would suggest, in the absence of posi- tive signs of pressure, that no puncture should be made. We ourselves have seen, and the same has oc- curred to other surgeons, the brain pushed up into the aperture of the skull after the dura mater has been opened; and the surgeon has been tempted to puncture the brain under the impression that an abscess had formed in it, and no matter has escaped. We have had a case recently under our own care, in which it was thought requisite to trephine; and immediately, on dividing the dura mater, the convolutions of the brain were pushed upwards through the opening. The brain was not punctured, but it was thought that matter existed in some part of the organ; and this really was the fact, for although there was an exceedingly small col- lection of matter found in the brain near the open- ing, this might be attributed to the inflammation which occurred after the operation; but there was an abscess in the anterior lobe of the opposite hemi- sphere, and another in the ventricle of the same side. The result of the examination of this case is given, because the matter was very different to that which is usually found in common abscesses, and the examination may possibly illustrate the ordi- nary condition of cerebral abscess; it was of a greenish-yellow colour, such as is generally found in cerebral abscess; the internal wall of the abscess was smooth, yellow, den6e,and friable, but not mem- branous. Immediately external to this, the cere- bral substance was of a deep yellowish-red colour, and dotted with red specks, and increased in den- sitj'. About half an inch external to the abscess, the brain exhibited its normal character. The matter contained in the cavity consisted of a Jluid holding in suspension hyaline globules, granule celts, Mood discs and free gra?iules. The vifall oi' the abscess appeared to be made up of disin- tegrated brain substance mixed with free grainiles, granule masses, and granule cells. Innuedintely external to the wall of the abscess, the cerebral substance was found intiltrated with a homo- geneous substance. The nerve tubules in this part were remarkably large and varicose, and granule cells were abundantly present between The simultaneous occurrence of abscess in the substance of the brain, with suppuration on the dura mater during exfoliation, especially if the abscess is formed at a distant part, is not unfre- quently the cause of much obscurity. The case just related is an instance of this;'for, although hemiplegia, which we regard as the most im- portant symptom of pressure, was by no means well developed, it existed, nevertheless, to a slight extent on the right side, and on this side the bone was necrosed. It was therefore evident, on care- ful consideration, that, according to the known law of the cross-action of the brain, it could not depend on the eff'usion of matter beneath the dead bone, for in that case the hemiplegia, slight as it was, would have been on the left side: the inference, therefore, was, that the principal mischief was to be.sought for on the left side, and on this side an abscess was discovered in the cerebral hemi- sphere, and far out of the reach of any surgical relief by operation. The trephine was applied in this instance with scarcely any expectation of benefit, and we were not much disappointed at the result. A recent and better marked instance of this source of embarrassment has occurred under our own observation, which exemplifies the same circumstance more clearly, and may be regarded as a proof of the unerring nature of the phenomenon that paralysis on one side of the body is always dependent on pressure on the opposite side of the brain. A man was admitted into the London Hospital, with a granulating wound of the scalp in the forehead, slightly out of the mesial line on the right side. The accident had been caused by a blow from a stone, which ren- dered him senseless for half an hour ; in falling he struck the back of his head against the kerb- stone. He went afterwards to his work as usual, and was admitted in about three weeks after the accident. When first seen he looked ill, but made no decided complaint. A piece of dead frontal bone was found at the bottom of the wound, which was removed with great facilitj'; there them. was another dead portion, which was left, as it was not separated. In about three daj's after this he had slight paralj'sis of the right side of his face, and was very unwell, and on the sixth day after the whole right side of his body became para- l3'sed. Mr. Ward judiciously removed a piece of bone with the trephine, and found about a drachm of pus on the dura mater. As matter seemed to well up in the direction of the left side, another portion of bone was removed, and the angles between the openings in the bone were sawn off: He appeared somewhat relieved at first, but he gradually became worse, and, in consequence of the persistence of the paralysis on the right side, and as the wound was close to the mesial line over the longitudinal sinus, the trephine "iis applied on the left side, but no matter was dis- covered on the dura mater. He sank gradually with symptoms of pressure about a fortnight .iiti'r the first operation. There was found, on examni.-i- tion after death, a large abscess in the hemi- sphere of the brain, which had gradually made its way upwards to the surface, and some of the matter had escaped through an ulcerated openmg of the dura mater. . r d,. Both these cases arc valuable illustrations ot inc fact of the hcmiplcgiabeiniron the side corrcsponoing to that on which the ovwhrnl injury was intlicton,