K 2 limbs ; and althougli tlie patient is generally silent, he raa3' nevertheless laugh, talk, or sing. In the third degree there is no longer any voluntary mo- tion. The eyes are not directed towards any ob- ject ; and although the limbs may move, they are not directed to any purpose. The pupil of the eye is generally inclined upwards, and is usually somewhat 'contracted. The blood-vessels of the conjunctiva are generally somewhat injected in persons who are well nourished and not deficient in blood. It is in this degree of narcotism that rigidity and spasms of the muscles are met with in certain cases. In the fourth degree of narcotism the breathing is stertorous, the pupils dilated, and the muscles completely relaxed. It is seldom necessary to carry the effects of chloroform so far as this degree. As the effects of the vapour sub- side the patient passes through the different de- grees of its influence, in the inverse order to that in which they were induced. There is often a considerable diminution of the common sensibility whilst the patient still retains his consciousness, especially when the chloroform is inhaled slowly, but it very rarely happens that even a trifling surgical operation can be performed without pain, unless unconsciousness is induced. Accordingly it is almost the universal practice, when this agent is used, to induce a state of un- consciousness before attempting to operate ; and to do otherwise would generally lead to failure. During the recovery of the patient who has been unconscious, there is, however, frequently a greater amount of anaasthesia than at the commencement of inhalation, and the tying of vessels and intro- duction of sutures may sometimes take place at the concluding part of an operation, whilst the patient is awake, without his feeling what is being done. There is generally a considerable amount of anaesthesia in the second degree of narcotism. The loss of sensation is indeed sometimes so complete m this degree, especially in children, that the surgeon's knife may be used without pain, and I liave seen a child unconsciously handle its toys all the time it was undergoing the operation of li- thotomy. Commonly, however, the use of the knife, when the narcotism has not proceeded further than this degree, occasions expressions indicative of pain, which are either not remembered, or are recollected as having occurred in a dream. The patient is usually in the second degree of the effects of chloroform during the greater part of the time occupied in a protracted operation ; for al- tliough it is necessary, in most cases, to induce a lurther amount of narcotism before the operation IS commenced, it is not usually necessary to main- tam It at a pomt beyond this. In the third degree of narcotism there is never any perception or consciousness of pain, but anajs- tliesia, m the proper sense of tiio term, is not a necessary part of this defjroe of narcotism when it 13 first induced, and in some cases u patient may flinch, and put on an expression of countenance which seems indicative of pain. By continuing the inhalation gently for a minute or two, a state of complete nntesthesia can be induced in almost every case, without carrying the narcotism beyond this degree. The patient is always perfectly insensible in the fourth degree of narcotism. It is sometimes ncccs- lary to carry the effects of chloroform as far as this legree, when the surgeon is dissecting in theneigh- AN^ESTHESIA. 231 bourhood of important vessels and nerves, in certain robust persons, and others who have acquired an excess of sensibility by hard drinking, and who can scarcely be kept quiet under the knife, except when the breathing is stertorous. The pulse is nearly always increased, both in force and frequency, during the early part of the inhalation of chloroform, but after the patient has become quite insensible, it generally settles down nearly to the natural standard; and in the middle of the greatest operations it is often beating with ordinary volume and strength not more than sixty times in a minute. The pulse rarely becomes weaker or slower than natural, except from con- siderable loss of blood, or when the patient ia about to be sick. The age of the patient has some influence in modifying the effects of chloroform. This agent acts very favourably on children, and does not cause the rigidity and struggling, after the loss of con- sciousness, which are sometimes met with in the adult; and absence of feeling is generally induced with less narcotism of the nervous centres than in grown-up persons. The effects of the vapour are more quickly produced and also subside more quickly in children than in adults, owing to their quicker breathing and circulation. Frequently, however, when the insensibility has been kept up for twenty minutes or half an hour, in a child, it 13 followed by a natural sleep of some hours dura- tion, if there is no painful wound or other cause to prevent the sleep. The writer of this has given chloroform in a few cases as early as the ages of eight or ten days, and to 200 infants under a year old. In persons advanced in years the effects of the chloroform generally subside rather slowly owing, no doubt, to the slower breathing and cir- culation. The comparative strength or debility of the pa- tient has considerable influence on the way in vyhich chloroform acts. The more feeble the pa- tient 18, whether from illness or any other cause the more quietly does he usually become insensible- whilst in the strong and robust there is frequently mental excitement in the second degree, and rigidity of the muscles and struggling in the third degree of narcotism. Patients in a state of debility resemble children in coming quietly and easily under the in- fluence of chloroform, and also in the circumstance that the common sensibility is suspended with less oppression of the nervous centres than in robust persons. Children and persons in a state of de- bility have usually an acute sensibility, which causes them to sufter pain from very slight causes- but this sensibility ia more easily suspended bv chloroform and similar agents than the less acute sensibilitj' of robust persons. Patients who are subject to hysteria sometimes have symptoms of the complaint, such as laughing crying or sobbing, as soon as consciousness is susl Ponded, or even impaired, by the chloroform • but hesc symptoms can always be subdued by co tiiiuiiig the inhalation. •' Chloroform occasionally brings on a lit of eni- epsy 111 persons who are subject to this disease in the lew c-iaes in which epileptic coiivulsioiia are caused by tlna agent, they do not appnar till the third degree of narcotism is iiuluccd, differing ii, this respect from hysteria, which comes on in tlm second degree, or even earlier. The course to pursue when epileptic convulsions appear, ia to