DISLOCATION, 1. [Dislocation of the astragalus forwards from the OS calcis and scaphoid hone.~ln this cnse tlie head of the astragalus completely leaves the cavity of the scaphoid boue, and is thrown forwards on to the upper surface of the scaphoid and cuneiform bones, 'i'he body of the astragalus is thrown more or less for- wards also upon the os calcis; sometimes its pos- terior sharp edge rests in the groove which separates the two articular surfaces of that bone, and this circumstance Dupuytren thought might be the cause of the difficulty often met with in the reduc- tion. The ancle-joint is uninjured. The head of the astragalus forms a striking prominence on the dorsum of the foot. The malleoli are carried for- wards with the astragalus, and the heel, therefore, appears lengthened, while the anterior part of the foot is in a corresponding degree shorter than na- tural. The lengthening of the heel, M. Malgaigne observes, will distinguish this case from the sub-luxa- tion of the astragalus on the scaphoid, which has been mentioned above, and by the degree of this elongation the extent to which the astragalus has been carried forwards upon the os calcis may be estimated. The head of the astragalus, instead of being thrown directly forwards, may pass in an obli que direction outwards or inwards, its head and neck in the one case resting on the cuboid bone, and in the other upon the inner part of the scaphoid. The cause of the dislocation forwards is usually a fall upon the anterior part of the foot ■while it is in the extended position, or a fall back- wards while the anterior part of the foot is fixed. If the foot at the moment of the accident is ab- ducted or adducted as well as extended, the dis- ocation may take the oblique direction inwards or outwards which has just been alluded to. A dislocation of the astragalus forwards oc- curred in the person of Mr. Carmichael of Dublin, and was caused by his horse falling with him, and throwing him with great violence on the an- terior part of the right foot. The following symptoms ■were observed and recorded by Dr. Macdonnell, and afford a good exemplification of the appearances pro- duced by the injury. The toes were turned outwards, the inner edge of the foot forming an angle of about thirty degrees with its natural direction ; the sole was slightly turned outwards, and the outer edge slightly elevated. The concavity of the tendo Achillis posteriorly was increased, and the heel lengthened. On grasping the soft parts between the tendo Achillis and the tibia, the distance between them was found to be much greater than in the other leg. The absence of the hard projection, which would have been formed by the upper part of the astragalus, had it passed backwards with the rest of the tarsus, was evident. Each mal- leolus was perfectly defined, below iind before the inner there was a hard prominence, over which the skin was tense, formed by the inner surface of the astragalus, brought into relief by the dislocation and the slight eversion of the sole of the foot. The most striking feature of the de- formity consisted in a prominence on the dorsum of the foot. Immediately in front of the tibia this prominence presented a flat surface, broad, from the tibia forwards, about a finger's breadth, from which there was an abriipt descent to the anterior part of the tarsus. Over this projection, caused by the hpsid of the astragalus thrown upon the upper surface of the scaphoid and cuneiform bones, the integuments were so tense, that it was evi- dent a very small additional force would hav. driven the astragalus through them. Lastl)', on taking the distance from the point of the internal malleolus to the extremity of the great toe, it was found to be almost an inch less than the distance between the same points in the other foot. The foot could be flexed and extended, but any move- ment occasioned severe pain. (Lancet, vol. i, 1847, p. 222.)] Reduction. — In some cases of this description the reduction has been found to he impracticable. Desault believed the impediment to depend upon the head of the bone being constricted in the narrow opening of the capsule; and an example is recorded by him of the complete or double dislocation in which the reduction was accomplished by dividing the skin, and then extending the incision through a part of the ligaments. He, therefore, recommended a similar practice in the partial dislocation also. However, in his Joitrn. de Chir. a case is related of simple dislocation of the astragalus from the os calcis and os naviculare, where the reduction was easily performed by common means. Boyer thought the difficulty arose rather from the impos- sibility of making the extending force and the pressure of the surgeon's hand operate with much effect upon the displaced bone, and that the luxated astragalus may be so wedged between the tibia, os calcis, and os naviculare, that its reduction is im- possible, as Boyer has actually seen. In the case here referred to things were left to take their course, except that every possible means was em- ployed to keep off inflammation. The result was, that the skin covering the projection of the astra- galus at the inner and upper part of the foot sloughed, and amputation was at length deemed necessary. {Mai. Cliir. t. iv. p. 400.) A similar example is recorded by Sir A. Cooper. {On Dis- locatio?is, p. 360.) In another case, pressure was made with a tight bandage on the prominence of the astragalus, and the soft parts over it became gangrenous, yet a recovery followed without ampu- tation, all the projecting portion of the astragalus having gradually come away in fragments. {ffet/''s Bract. Obs. p. 384. 2nd ed.) [Another cause of difficult}- which has been suggested is the slipping of the head of the astra- galus between the tendons, bj^ which its neck may then be constricted. » Thus, when the head passes obliquely forwards and inwards, it may become engaged between, and be firmly held b}', the ten- dons of the tibialis anticus and posticus. M. Malgaigne suggests, that as it is very difficult to know in the first instance what the obstacle may be, it is better first to try simple pressure, with- out extension, the thumbs being placed on the head of the astragalus and the fingers crossed under the heel, the leg being flexed to the utmost upon the thigh. Should this not succeed stronger measures may then be adopted. {Traitt rfcs jFVwf. t. ii. p. 1035.) In Mr. Carmichael's case, Drs. Hutton and Mac- donnell, after flexing the leg strongly on the thigh, and making extension and counter-extension at the foot and knee, endeavoured to press the heel forward, and the astragalus and tibia bnckwnrd, while tiie toes were drawn inward, and the outer edge of the foot somewliat depressed. This not having the slightest effect, more powerful extension with the pulleys was resorted to. For this puqiose a strap, on tlie part of which corres-