410 their seat, and extent, and also (wliat is of great moment) how far the pupil retains the capacity of being dilated by artificial means. (See Middle- more, On Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 73.) Tiie obstacle to vision, situated in the posterior chamber, between the vitreous humour and the uvea, and making what is termed a cataract, may be either within the limit of the capsule of the lens, or between the anterior laj-er of that capsule and the uvea. The first case is the genuine, the second, the spurious cataract, A genuine cataract, when a primary disease, and luiattended from the first with other morbid effects in the eye, is mostly a single independent affection ; on the contrary, as the spurious cataract is gene- rally the consequence of internal ophthalm)', it is generally combined with a partial opacity of the anterior layer of the capsule, and, of course, with a genuine cataract. The first variety of genuine cataract noticed by Beer, is the lenticular; it usually begins in the cen- tre or nucleus of the lens, mostly presenting a dull yellowish grey colour, which is somewhat deeper at the centre than at the margin of the pupil ; a character retained even when the disease is in its most complete stage. If the lenticular cataract is hard or firm, " the opacity has a greyish appear- ance, with more or less of the yellowish brown or amber tint towards the centre. In the firm and darker coloured portion, it resembles wax slightly softened by heat; the circumference is lighter- coloured and softer, being about the consistence of soft jelly. The more we see of the amber colour, and the deeper the tint, the harder is the cataract; the greyer its appearance, the softer is the consistence." The central portion is firmer than the rest. In a few instances, the lens has been of a dark brown, or mahogany colour, and hard throughout. An ordinary firm cataract presents the consistence of wax. The firm cataract, with the amber tint in the middle, gradually shaded off into grey, is the ordinary form of the complaint in advancing age. {Laiurence, op. cit. p. 399.) It always forms slowly; and except when the iris is too dark coloured, it is more or less attended with a blackish ring at the edge of the pupil, which ring becomes plainer as the disease advances. It never causes any alteration in the expansion or contrac- tion of the iris ; nor does it even in its highest de- gree deprive the patient of all power of vision, who in shady places, or when the pupil is artificially dilated, is often capable of distinguishing pretty well many objects which are placed laterally with respect to the ej'e. A lenticular cataract is usually at some distance from the uvea, so that the extent of the posterior chamber is manifest, while the opacity presents more or less of a convex appear- ance, and never that of very white cloudy specks. Frequently the lenticular cataract is unattended with any change in the capsule. The second species of genuine cataract noticed hy Beer is the capsular. The disease seldom commences in the centro of the pupil, and usually arises at its margin in the form of distinct white shining points, streaks, or specks ; its colour, therefore, _ is always very light and never alto- gether uniform, even when the disease is com- pletely formed. The disease has some effect on tJio motions of the iris, at least their quickness. A capsular cataract seldom remains long tlic only fillection, but is followed bv disease of the lens CATARACT. itself; a fact which cannot surprise us, when we consider that it is through the medium of the cap- sules that the particles of the lens are incessantly undergonig the changes of removal and reproduc- tion. The capsular cataract is subdivided by Beer into the a«tow; iha posterior; and the capsular cataract, in which both the front and back portions of the capsule are opaque. The anterior capsular cataract may be known by its light grey, and in some places, completely chalk-white coloiu-, intersected by shining mother- of-pearl-like streaks and spots. As the capsule is at the same time thicker than natural, the posterior chamber is lessened, and the cataract is not unfre- quently close to the uvea, especially when the lens has also completely lost its transparencj^ In this stage, the, movements of the iris are likewise . rendered less quick, and the shadow at the margin of the pupil is entirely absent. Hence, vision is not only hurt, but quite impeded, in regard to any correct sensation of light, whether the patient be in a light, or shady situation ; and frequently a faint light is completelj'- invisible to him. The posterior capsidar cataract belongs to the rarer forms of the disease of the- eye. Like the anterior capsular cataract, it is denoted by a whitish-grey unequal, variegated colour; but no light coloured, chalk-white spots and streaks are ever discernible, which, while the lens retains its transparency, may be owing to the distance of the cataract from the pupil. However, the opacity situated behind the pupil always seems concave when the eye is inspected, not from before, but from every side of it. While the posterior half of the capsule is not completely opaque, the lens is not materially affected; the eyesight is only more or less weakened ; and sometimes, especiall}^ with the aid of a magnifying glass, a tolerable degree of vision is enjoyed, notwithstanding the consider- able opacity behind the pupil. This species of cataract has not itself any influence over the nid- tions of the iris, and after the lens becomes opaque it is not softened. Though the p>erfcct or anlero-posterior capsular cataract is not the rarest species of genuine cataract, it cannot be said to be very common. In addition to the sj'mptoms of the anterior capsular cataract, the iris is occasionally nearly motionless, the cata- ract tying close to that membrane ; the posterior chamber for the same reason is eflaced ; and an inexperienced surgeon might suppose the anterior portion of the capsule were adherent to the uvea, unless he convinced himself of the contrary by producing an artificial dilatation of the pupil. The existence of perfect capsular cataract can- not be easily ascertained; for if the anterior por- tion of the membrane be opaque it will prevent us from knowing whether the posterior be so or not. (See Lawrence, On Diseases of tlie Eye, p. 494.) When any portion of the capsule is left behind after operations with the needle, and becomes opaque, the case is termed a secondary mem- branous, or capsular cataract. The third species of genuine cataract is the cataracta Moir/agniana. It is one of the rarest forms of the disease; so rare, indeed, that it haa been regarded as purely hypothetical. [The most remarkable character (if the Morgagnian cataract is the difference of colour Avhich it presents ac-