knife. Ilowpvor, this calniot be considered as iiMipiitiUion at tliL> iiip.joiiit. Dividing a few dead iibros was a thing ol' no importance, in regard to the likelihood of its creating any bad symptoms. The proceeding, in fact, seems to me to have no analogy at all to the bloody operation of taking the thigh-bone out of the socket. It is quite a different thing, when the operator has to cut through parts which bleed profusely, and are endowed with life and sensibilit}-. [Mr. Cooper is here probably alluding to a case mentioned in M. Barbet's essay, which was operated on in 1748, by La Croix, of Orleans. This case, bow- ever, has since been mentioned by Mr. Sands Cox, by Mr. South, and by Dr. Stephen Smith, as the first example of amputation at the hip-joint. The patient was a boy of fourteen, both of whose lower limbs had become gangrenous from eating diseased rye; the first operation was through the right thigh, and four days after the left thigh was am- putated at the hip-joint; he seemed to be goino- on very well, but died on the eleventh day after"the second operation. (Souih''s Chelius, vol. ii. p. fl33.) The operation seems to have consisted merely of the division of the round ligament and sciatic nerve with a pair of scissors.] In addition to the memoir by Barbet, thirtj'- three other essays were offered to the Academy, ■ the majority of which were filled with arguments I in favour of the operation ; and, besides these pro- ductions, two other memoirs were published at I Paris, one by Goursaud in J 758, explaining a new method of operating, and another by Moublet (see Jom-n. de Med. an. 1759). Some of the best surgeons of the last and present century condemn the proceeding. The following are Mr. Pott's sentiments: — " M. Bil- guer and M. Tissot are the only people whom I have met with, or heard of, in the profession, who speak of an amputation in the joint of the hip as an advisable thing, or as being preferable to the same operation in the thigh." After a quotation or two, he continues—" That amputation in the joint of the hip is not an impracticable operation (although it be a dreadful one), I very well know. I cann'ot say that I have ever done it, hull have seen ii done, and am now very sure I shall never do it, unless it be on a dead body. The parallel, which is drawji between this operation and that in the shoulder, will not hold. In the latter, it sometimes happens, that the caries is confined to the head of the os humeri, and that the scapula is perfectly sound and unaffected. In the case of a carious hip-joint this never is the fact; the acetabulum igchii,'and parts about, are always, more or less, in the same state, or at least in a distempered one, and so indeed most fre(|UPiitly are the parts within the pelvis," &c. {Poll on Amputation.) Here it may be remarked, that Pott was right, inasmuch as the operation is totally unjustifiable in disease of the hip-joint; but wrong in not perceiving that, though unlit for such a case, it might be proper for others. C'allisen had difficulty in supposing any circiim- itanccs, in which the operation could bo umlcrlaken with hopes of success. (Syst. Chir. flod. p. 41!i, t. ii. edit. 1(!00.) And Itichcrand thinks, that' unless the limb be nearly separated by the disease )r accident, a prudent surgeon should decline naking the attempt, (Nosngr. Chir. I. iv n 51') >dit. 4.) ^' ' ' It is a remarkable fact in the history of gurgerj'. AMPUTATION. Ijg that an operation, whicli had been invented in France, and concerning which so much had been written in that country, should have been first put in practice in England. " I have been informed," (says Professor Thomson,) " that the operation was performed in London by the late Mr. H. Thomson, surgeon to the London Hospital, and imagine that it must have been his operation to which Mr. Pott alludes." (OAs. in the Mil. Hospitals in Bel- yiuin, p. 264.) At all events, whether this was the identical case which Mr. Pott saw, or not, the example referred to by this distinguished surgeon is the earliest instance of the operation being actually performed. [The correctness of this state- ment is somewhat doubtful, even if we exclude the case by La Croix in 1748 already referred to, and to which the priority has been given of late years. The date of Mr. Thomson's case is un- known, and as M. Perrault operated in France in 1773, about the period that Mr. Thomson's case is supposed to have occurred, it is impossible to decide whether the priority should be accorded to the French or the English surgeon. Mr. South, who has made inquiries on this point, says, " Whether Thomson or Perrault operated first, or whether Thomson operated before Kerr, I cannot ascertain." (,So2dh's Chelius, vol. ii. p. 933.)] In the first successful amputation of the hip, M. Perrault, of Sainte Maure, was the operator. It was done in the 3'ear 1773, in a case of traumatic gangrene. The particulars are recorded by Sabatier. The patient, named Goix, recovered, and afterwards lived a good while as cook at an inn at St. Maure, where M. Velpeau saw his son in 1815. (See Velpeau, Nouv. Elan. ^-c. t. i. p. 51 <|.) In Dec. 1774, it was performed by Mr. Kerr, of Northampton, on a girl between eleven and twelve years of age, in a case of diseased hip • a case, however, in which I am completely satisfi'ed that It ought never to be attempted, for the reason laid down by Mr. Pott. In fact, Mr, Kerr, after removing the limb, found the acetabulum, and all the adjacent parts of the ossa innominata, carious But the experiment was here rendered still more liopeless, by the patient being consumptive. Yet with all these disadvantages, the girl lived till the eighteenth day from the operation, and, after death her lungs were found to be a complete mass of dis- ease, one of them being totally reduced to matter (See Duncan's Med. Commentaries, vol. vi p 337 8yo. Loud. 1779.) Although amputation at the hip used commonly to be demonstrated on the dead subject, by lecturers on surgery in London, the ob- servation of M. Velpeau is very correct, that in Lngland and Germany little serious idea was en tertained of reviving the pr.actice of it on the iving till the commencPiueiit of the present cen- tnry, and that about this epoch several trial, of it were made by surgeons of the French armv. M A. Blaudin relates three cases. His firn natien was operated upon in Au-rust 17o/ nnH i Ti.„ II ""'"^)ana recovered The second also got well, and the third lived ^il the fifty-eighth day after the operation. Aho the same period, M. Perret, another luniln - siirgeon, had one successful case. In i;,))! Mulder amputated at the hip with success, on .-i' young woman aged 18. (See Velpeau, ElL.de Med. Oper. t. i. p. 514.) Larrey performed this operation twice in Egypt; and once, while ho was serving with the French army on the Rhine He was encouraged to make these attempts to save his