1082 bulk is owing to a Superabundant deposition of the natural solid constituents of the affected organ from an excess of the nutritive function." (See R. CarswelVs Illustrations of the Elementary Forms of Disease, fasciculus ix.) 1. Many hypertrophies seem to arise altogether from augmentation in the habitual activity of the functions of organs. "The prodigious develop ment and power of the muscles of the superior extremities of the blacksmith, and of the inferior extremities of the stage-dancer, are striking ex- amples of hypertrophy occurring under the influ- ence of the frequent and increased exercise of a function, the effect of which is a corresponding increase of nutrition and of development of the muscular tissue. The anOrmal development of the muscles of involuntary motion, as those of the heart, bladder, and intestines, is likewise often precisely of a similar natiu-e, an increased exercise of the muscular power of these organs having been excited and kept up to overcome a mechani- cal obstacle to the free passage of their respective contents." {Carswell, lb.) 2. Some hypertrophies take place as the un- equivocal result of what Andral calls active liyperaimia, either acute or chronic, or, in other words, of a great determination, or of a copious afflux of blood to parts, for a greater'or lesser time. 3. Others proceed from some physiological or pathological stimulus, some irritation of the nutri- tive function, creating an excess of it. (See A7i. dral, Precis d'Aiiat. Pathol, t. i. p. 182.) _ [According to Mr. Paget the conditions which give rise to hypertrophy are chiefly three. " 1. The increased exercise of a part in its healthy functions. 2. An increased accumulation in the •blood of the particular materials which a part ap- propriates to its nutrition or in secretion. 3. An increased afflux of healthy blood." "With respect to the hypertrophy of muscle he alludes to Hunter's opinion that the muscles of organic life are more prone to hypertrophy than those of animal life. He also adopts Harting's statement that in the in- creased growth of striped muscles, there is not a numerical increase of the fibres but an enlarge- ment of them with an additional number of the fihrillcB. In spealcing of hypertrophy of the bones of the skull, he uses the term eccentric growth to denote their expansion in cases of' hydrocephalus, and of concentric growth to designate their in- crease in thickness. He relates a remarkable in- stance of concentric growth in the cranium of a lady of weak intellect, in whom the external layer of the bones retained its normal symmetry and dimensions while the internal was adapted to an imperfectly developed brain, the intermediate diploe being increased in some parts to the extent of half an inch in thickness. In the long bones he draws attention to the in- crease in length as well as in thickness, which occasionally takes place, and to the interesting lact that, in the division of a limb in which there hypertrophy affects only one, the healthy bone retaining its normal length com- pels the elongated bone to assume a curved form, vy ith regard to the effect of pressure in producing rem.r"!? ""^ ''ypertrophy, he notices Hunter's aWnti E'r'""'^^'''^"^ "«"='"y produces by deno»H'- ^^'^"^'^^'^^'^ f'ora without is followed oy aeposition. He admits the facts as stated by HYPINOSIS. Hunter, but would explain the result differently: he observes, " Constant extra-pressiu-e on a part always appears to produce atrophy and absorption, occasional pressure may, and usually does, produce hypertrophy." {Paget, Lectures on Surgical Patho. loff2/,-p.7i—92.) Virchow admits two kinds of increased growth : 1. Simple hypertrophy, in which the individual elements are enlarged ; 2. Numerical hypertrophy (hyperplasia), in which an increased number of elements are added. He adduces as instances of simple hypertrophy the increased thickness of all the primitive fibres of a muscle or nerve, the en- largement of each individual hepatic cell, or of every single fat cell, while hyperplasia of the liver gives rise to new hepatic cells ; of nerve, to new nerve substance; of skin, to a fresh production of the elements of skin ; of fat, to an additional number of fat cells. (See Cellular Pathology, by Rudolf. Virchow, translated by F. Cliance, 1860.)] [HYPINOSIS (from iirh and h, Ivhs, the fibre of flesh). A diseased condition of the blood, in which the fibrine is diminished in quantity, absolutely, and also in proportion to the red corpuscles. In extreme cases a trace only remains. Its vital pro- perties are also deteriorated. Hypinosis, in a vast majority of instances, con- stitutes but one element of a complicated morbid condition of the blood. Nevertheless, it is in itself so important an element of disease, or the degree in which it exists is so accurate a measure of the intensity and import of complicated blood affections, that it demands especial attention. In hypinotic blood, the albumen, the salts of the liquor sanguinis, and the red corpuscles may be in the normal proportions, or even in excess, hence designated by Wedl " albuminosis." It is less oxygenated, of diminished temperature, and its metamorphoses take place more slowly. The red corpuscles do not run together in rouleaux, but are irregularly scattered, and their preponderance arises, probably, partly from their diminished consumption, and partly, often, from a smaller proportion of water. According to J. F. Simon, the blood is always alkaline, and Richardson refers the defec- tive fibrillation to excess of ammonia; but Roki- tansky affirms that such blood is sometimes acid. The clot is of a dark red colour, very frequently but not necessarily large; it is soft, diffluent or loose; feebly contractile; sometimes failing to se- parate itself from the serum ; and sometimes no clot is formed. The serum is often of a dark yellow tint or reddish from the breaking up or suspension of red corpuscles. A buft'y coat is seldom seen, and when it docs occur is thin and soft, or forms a gelatinous party-coloured coating. Blood of this cliaracter acts as a diminished stimulus to the heart, and this organ partially loses its power; hence its contractions succeed each other with increased rapidity, but the blood is propelled with diminished force, and the pulse, although quickened, is weak and often wirj% and the cur- rent of the blood is comparatively slow. Hypinosis is so direct an effect of many poisons, miasms, and contagions, that it has been regarded as aprimary blood disease. It maj' be pro- duced bj' the inhalation or ingestion of poisonsarti- ficially {Richardson, lib. cit. p. 90), and is the con- dition, so far as discovery has at present developed, which most constantly attends simple fever. In its minor degree* it is not well marked, nor easily de-