HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. 887 3 l4 speedily lieals ; and as there is mucli ecchymosis of the orbit and eyelids, the aspect of the case is that of a simple contusion. Moreover, symptoms of severe cerebral mischief rarely make their ap- pearance imtil after twenty-four hours from the time of the accident. Sometimes, however, from the very commencement cerebral symptoms, as convulsions, insensibility, and stertorous breathing, appear, and indicate severe cerebral injury ; or a slight shivering or strabismus leads to the suspicion of the true nature of the case. In all cases the orbit is distended with blood, and the eye is sometimes protruded, extensive ecchymosis being visible beneath the ocular conjunctiva. Morgagni says : "Numerous cases are registered in medical works in which the patient survived an injury of the brain occasioned by a wound through the orbit, for nine, twelve, fourteen, or even twenty- one days ; but I have met with no instance in which there was a more complete exemption from inconvenience than this. In some cases alluded to, the animal functions indeed appear to have been but slightly disturbed till near the period of decease. But injuries of this nature have not invariably proved fatal, for, even where amaurosis of the corresponding eye and paralysis of the oppo- site side have resulted, the patient has been known to survive." ''The upper part of the orbit is so thin that wounds inflicted with a pointed instrument in that direc- tion are not to be lightly regarded, especially if there be a supervention of sleepiness, nausea, fever, vertigo, or any sign of paralysis." {Cooke's Trans- lation of Morgagni.) In cases of I'ecovery after supposed penetrating wounds of the orbit, it is probable that the instru- ment has not passed beyond the boundaries of this cavity, and tliat amaurosis and strabismus have resulted from simple lesion of the nerves of the orbit. This observation is inapplicable to cases where hemiplegia has existed. Hewett has col- lected many cases of this character, and they tend to exemplify the same facts: namely, the obscurity as to their precise nature at first; secondly, the supervention of severe symptoms within a compara- tively short time from the accident ; and, lastly, their almost invariable fatality. The fatality in these cases results from the injury inflicted on the brain, and the consequent extravasation and subsequent inflammation; .and it is obvious that, whatever treatment be pursued, there can he no possible room for escape of the extravasatcd blood, or the necessary products of the inflammation. The opening through the bone is generally too small to admit of the escape of the damaged brain, and the pent-up matter produces pressure, from which there can be no hope of relief. We entertain a very strong opinion that if the brain is wounded through the orbit, recovery is almost impossible. South, however, in his translation of Cholius' System of Surgery, quotes a remarkable instance of recovery from a wound of the brain through the orbit. The case is given by J)i: Selwyn, of Cheltenham: "A knife, a common cheese-knife, about four inches and a quarter long in the blade, and averaging three-quarters of an inch broad, entered the right orbit nearly horizon- tally, to the depth of three inches and a quarter, immediately beneath the supraciliary ridge, and penetrating, through the posterior part of the orbital plate of the frontal bone, the substance of the brain, injuring in its course the optic nerve and the levator palpebra3 muscle or the nerve supplying it. It required all the father's force to dislodge the knife from its situation. The hemorrhage was very slight. After the removal of the knife some portion of the brain protruded; more was discharged on the eighth day after the accident. He did not sleep for a fortnight after the accident, and was delirious during the night. The treat- ment consisted of low diet, little or no medical treatment, and the application of strips of adhesive plaster to the wound, which was healed in six weeks. There was never any exfoliation of bone. The vision is entirely lost in the eye, the pupil dilated, and wholly insensible to the stimulus of light. All the senses are perfect except the vision of the injured eye. The memory is very defective, and he is incapable of appljnng to any pursuit re- quiring mental activity. His health is good, and he has the free use of his limbs." (SouilCs Clielitis, vol. i. p. 397.) Punctured fractures may occur in other parts of the cranium. Many cases of this description are on record. The following instance is re- corded in the Dubiin Journal, 1851, p. 347, and is mentioned by Mr. Hewett, in which it was found, after death, that the brass point of a broken end of a cane had pierced the left ala of the nose at the junction of the cartilage with the bone, and taking a direction upwards, backwards, and inwards, it had grazed the inferior and middle turbinated bones, passed through the sphenoidal sinus, and thence into the skull, breaking off and carrying before it the posterior clinoid process, but not rupturing the visceral membranes, which were however extensively inflamed. " A trumpeter of the 12th Lancers was admitted into the hospital, and was seen by the assistant surgeon on the fol- lowing morning, who found him in bed with some confusion of ideas, which the surgeon attributed to indulgence in drink the previous night. The patient, on being questioned, stated that he had been fencing with a walking-cane, and that he had received a thrust from the cane in the face; but the only appearance of injury was a small puncture on the left ala nasi, which did not appear larger than a leech-bite. He was somewhat taci- turn, but answered questions put to him. On the following morning there were no alarming head symptoms, .but he was evidently labouring under a considerable amount of stupor. Towards the afternoon he became violent; his breathing was stertorous, and he pulfed with his lips; the right eye was staring, and its pupil greatly contracted; the left was widely dilated, and there was ptosis of the lid. In the evening he was seized with violent convulsions, attended with great discolora- tion of the face, and he died. The brass ferule of a small walking-cane projected into the skull upwards and backwards, and was lying close to the left side of the sella Turcica, and pressing on tlie optic nerve." Dr. Henncn (op. cit.) mentions the following: " In a squabble between two soldiers, one of them was struck at by the other whilst cleaning the bar- rel of his musket. He raised the ramrod to deter the man from prosecuting his blow. The unfortu- nate fellow, iiowever, slipped in the act of striking, and received the point of tlie ramrod just above the root of the nasal process of the frontal bone, and instantly dropped down dead. It was found that