Contact may, indeed, be obtained; but it is limited to the posterior border of the fracture, wliile tliere remains a wide interval in front. lie has, there- fore, devised an instrument to act upon the pieces of bone themselves, without taking its bearings upon either the integument or tendons. The instru- ment terminates above and below in two curved sharp-pointed hooks, which he passes through the skin and firmly implants in the upper and lower borders of the bone. The apparatus is so con- trived as to admit of its ends being approximated by means of a screw; and in this way the fragments can be drawn together. Osseous union was thus obtained in two cases which he relates, and in another the separation was not more than a quarter of an inch. A firm hold was readily obtained by the lower hooks, which were inserted beneath the thin lower border of the bone, so as to embrace it in their concavity ; but there was more difficulty with the upper ones, which, being in- serted upon the sloping upper surface of the patella, were found to have a tendency after a time to slip downwards. It was necessary to insert these very deeply, or they only took hold of the tendinous structures on the front of the bone, and they re- quired to be held very firmly in their place until the screw was tightened. Tiie apparatus was re- tained from three to four weeks, and in one instance as long as forty-one days. The irritation produced was very trifling, and the punctures healed in two or three days after the honks were removed. (See Traite desFracl. t. i. p. 771.) ] In the treatment of a longitudinal or perpen- dicular fracture of the patella, the leg should be kept extended, leeches used, and a cold lotion applied. After a few days a roller is to be put round the limb, and then a laced knee-cap, with straps buckled round the limb above and below the patella, and a pad on each side to bring its parts as nearly as possible into contact. {Sir A. Cooper, vol. cit. p. .90.) The experience of Dupuytren confirms the fact that a longitudinal fracture of the patplla is soon firmly consolidated. {Annuaire Med. Cldr. da Paris, p. 94. 4 to. Paris, 1819.) [Dupuytren thought that the action of the muscles had no tendency to displace the fragments in a longitudinal fracture. Sir A. Cooper even believed that it would approximate them. M. Malgaignc has, however, well explained that these views were erroneous; and that on the one hand the fibres of the vastus externus which pass obliquely forwards to be inserted into the external angle of the patella, and on the other those of the vastus internus, vvhich are attached along the whole length of the internal border of the bone, must necessarily tend to draw the fragments apart. The separation is greater when the knee is flexed, because this position puts tlie ex- tensor muscles on tl)e stretch, but it is still present wlien the knee is extended, unless the preser- vation of the fibrous tissues should obviate the effect of the muscular contraction. The interval is greater at the upper than at the lower end of the bone. The knee should be kept in the ex- tended position; but liiere is no necessity to flex the thigh upon the pelvis, since the rectus muscle has no influence in causing the separation. Com- presses siiould bo carefully fixed on each side of the bono, to insure the contact of the fractured surfacps.] C'nmpoiuid friichires of tlie patella frpf|uently terminate in the death of the patient, unless auipu- rURE. 755 tation be performed early. The injury, however, does not invariably lead either to the loss of life or limb. I saw a case in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, in the year 1820, under Mr. Vincent, where the patella was broken to pieces, and the opening so extensive that the fingers readily passed into the joint; yet, after a tedious confinement, the forma- tion of abscesses, and the separation of several fragments of bone, the patient recovered with a stiff joint. In general, however, I believe, with Sir A. Cooper, that in compound fractures of the patella, if the laceration be extensive, or the con- tusion very considerable, amputation will be re- quired ; but, if the wound be small, the patient not irritable, and no sloughing of the integuments, or ligament, likely to occur, it will be best to try to save the limb. (Vol. cit. p. 99.) The wound should be re-united as speedily as possible, and advantage taken of evaporating lotions, perfect rest in a desirable posture, a very low regimen, leeches, venesection, and saline opening medicines. Since the above remarks were first drawn up, I saw another case of bad compound fracture of the patella in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where it had been about a month. No fragments of bone had then been removed, but a good deal of matter issued daily from the wound, and the patient was in considerable danger of losing his limb, or even his life. Fractuiies op the Leg. [Fractures of the leg are among the most fre- quent of all fractures. In 1101 cases of fracture occurring at the Middlesex Hospital, and recorded by Mr. Lonsdale, 209 were fractures of the leg ; in 226 fractures occurring at Guy's Hospital, and recorded by Dr. Wilkinson King, 66 were of the leg ; and in 946 fractures occurring at the Penn- sylvania Hospital, and recorded by Dr. G. W. Norris, 293 were of the leg. (Firrio's Surgery, p. 201.) Thus, in a total of 2267 cases of fracture, 638, or nearly 1 in 31, were fractures of the leg. This proportion corresponds almost e.xactly with the statistics collected by M. Malgaignc from the records of the Hotel-Dieu, for in a total of 2328 fractures he found 6.52 were of the leg, being as nearly as possible in the same proportion. Fractures of the leg, like those of the fore-arm, may be divided into three classes, viz.:—1. Frac- tures of both bones. 2. Fractures of the tibia. 3. Fractures of the fibula. Of these varieties the first is by far the most frequent : in Mr. Lonsdale's table, of 289 fractures of the leg, 197 were of both bones, 41 of the tibia singly, and 51 of the fibula ; and in that of M. Malgaigne, out of 652, 515 were of both bones, 29 only of the tibia, and 108 of the fibula.J In a review of the position and strength of ihe two bones of the leg, it will apjicar that the tibia supports alone the whole weight of the body as well as every shock directed in the axis of the limb and many kinds of force applied also in tlie trans- verse direction, without operating upon any par- ticular point. Hence the frequency of fractures of the tibia ; and, if the fibula is generally broken likewise, the latter injury is subsequent to the other, and takes place because this slender bono is not ca[)al)le of bearing the weight of the bodj'-, the imi)ulse of external violence, or even the action of the muscles, after the tibia has given 3 c2