636 is too wide a subject for i,s to venture on, but whatever ,s true of these hospitals as causes of le^er, is true in jts degree likewise as regards erysipelas. ° Mr.^ Coulson quotes from Malouin, to the effect ttiat out of twenty females who were confined I" ff^^'/^O'. 174(1, in the lying-in ward of the i-iotel Dieu, scarcely one escaped being attacked with puerperal fever, and that erysipelatous affec- tions were equally common." In the spring of 1/aO, puerperal fever was again epidemic, when Its connection with erysipelas was noticed bv Pouteau m his "Melanges de Chirurgie." This disease again prevailed as an epidemic in 1770 and IS mentioned by Dr. Leake. Three years after we find It devastating the lying-in ward of the Edinburgh Infirmary, and Dr. Young, then professor of midwifery, accounts for it by the con- temporaneous existence of erysipelas, which not only attacked the parturient, but the wounds of those who had undergone any operation. After alluding to the testimony of Dr. John Clarke in 1787 and 1788, and of Dr. Gordon of Aberdeen, and of Hey of Leeds in 1811 and 1812 to the eftect that puerperal fever and erj'sipelas prevail together, Mr. Coulson gives it as his opinion that epidemic puerperal fever is at times of an infectious erysipelatous character." (Cozdson, On tlie ILp Joint, S(c. 2nd ed. Lond. 1841 ) _ The late Mr. Storrs, of Doncaster, (in the Pro- vincxcd Med..Journal, 2nd Dec. 1843,) published an appalling series of cases in which erysipelas had given rise to puerperal fever, and the converse. For in- stance, Mr. Reedal, of Sheffield, was attendingacase of sloughing bubo with erysipelas, in a young man. I he patient s sister, who waited on him, was seized with erysipelas of the head,anddied. Five parturient women, whom Mr. Reedal went to from the house of the patient, died of puerperal fever ; one other was attacked with inflammation of the mucous membrane of the bowels. Two fatal cases are re- corded of puerperal fever cau.sed by infection from erysipelas in the practice of Mr. Sleight, of Hull. Mr. Hardy, of Hull, attended twenty women be- tween March 21st and April 20th, 1838, of whom seven died of puerperal fever. He was at the same time attending a case of large sloughing ulcer of the groin, and one of erysipelatous abscess of the breast. At the same time, to show the atmo- spheric condition, large numbers of pigs, sheep, and cattle died in parturition. Three surgeons in the same town performed a post-mortem examination in a case of gangrenous hernia: each had cases of puerperal fever. A physician of Boston made the autopsy of a man on March 19 th, who died after forty-eight hours' illness, of a3dema of tlie thigh and gangrene. He wounded his hand, and was laid up Iroin the 20th March to the 3rd April. But on ^(Jth he attended a woman, and she died; as did nve others out of seven whom he attended in the ollowing winter. The nurse who laid out the tiiird parturient woman died of erysipelas ; and the nurse who aid out the fourth died after twenty- ti neiT, u'"'t ^" 1836, a prac- .Snt / '^^''''1 of puerperal fcve ; his ^sistan t took fever and foul ulceration of the throat. died'of --^ <^'"IJ "'ho had "S Una lu.rpes, typhoid erysipelas, and a hu-o ERYSIPELAS. abscess in the mamma. It is fir m,^,„ on with such evidence than to stop Mr V^- \ ^" of Bi^i-mingham, (Prov. A^A.^''fc^"' 1844 1,11833, after visiting a bad case of riipeC a^ ended five women, four of whom died Nason, of Nuneaton, after seeing one of Mr El k.ngton's patients, attended a woman, who died whose husband had sore throat, and whose fri nd had a severe feverish attack. Two of Z fe^^u Jte-^dants on the other patients hal "sS^ Mr. Perry a patient of Mr. Elkington, had severe erysipelas in 183,5, which was the means of on! veying contagion to one woman, who died. T„ Perry s house, which had not be^n purified Mrs tT^Tf'^ by puerperal fever i 1839, her husband had sore throat, and her infant erysip'eias! That erysipelas is capable of spreading by infec- and [W H^ P"'''««<=^"' °'«"erin certain states; and that the same cause may produce a very low si (e, m lohchpatienis sink after operatiomoith little o> no posl-mortem change, is proved by the following cases Mr Erichsen (^Science and Art of Surf Lond 185 3, p. 348) says that his wards It ul versity College Hospital had been free from erysi- pelas for some time, when on 15th Jan. 1851 at noon, a man with gangrenous erysipelas of the lees was placed in Burdett's ward. Troo hours after- wards Mr. E ordered the man to be removed, and the chlorides to be used. NotwithstandinrJ this precaution the patient in the next bed, with necrosis of the ihuni, was seized with erysipelas in two days, and died of it. The disease then spread to a most every patient in the ward, and proved fatal to several. But in several instances patients were affected with the constitutional svmptoms, the lever and gastro-intestinal disturbance, laithoutany mamjestation of local symptoms whatever. The relation of the diffused, or erysipelatous in- flammation of the areolar tissue to cutaneous ery- sipelas is very evident from the case of Mr. Newbv (quoted in Travers,On Constitutional Irritation, and in ^unneley, On Erysipelas, from Dr. Nelson), a surgeon, who, on June 1st, pricked his thumb in examining the body of a child which had died of enteritis and erysipelas of the abdomen. On the following three days he complained of depression; on the fourth, of headache and fever, with a small pustule on the thumb, and slight pain in the axilla- on the seventh, deep-seated pain in the left breast,' which assumed a pink tinge ; axilla and arm more uneasy ; on the eighth, increased inflammation of the breast, and great feebleness ; death on the twelfth day. During Mr. Newby's illness, his assistant had innammation of the fauces of erj- sipelatous appearance, and suppuration of the tonsil. His pupil had low fever ; the housemaid cynanche tonsillaris; the nurse an attack of pyrexia, followed by phlegmonous erysipelas, of which she died. A woman who assisted in the room after Mr. Newby's death had phlegmonous erysipelas, but recovered. Here is another case, showing, as Mr. Nunneley observes, that diffuse inflammation and erysipelas are one and the same disease. James Craig, whose master had just died of some febrile disease, was brought to his father's house with erysipelas of his face. The disease was severe, spread to chest and abdomen, and led to extensive suppura- tion. Vent was given to the matter, and ho re- covered. His father was attacked in both hands and iums; the disease spread lo his face, and after