ARSENIC. 282 arsenic was increased to five or six parts in the hundred. The liquid preparation was principally the above powder mixed with gum arable, and moistened with distilled water, so as to make a paste. In the latter formula, however, Dupuytren usually increased the proportion of arsenic, employ- ing six, eight, ten, or twelve parts of arsenic, with so many parts of calomel as made, with the arsenic, one hundred. Dupuytren employed this application with considerable success for the cure of many phagedenic ulcerations of the lips, and other parts of the face, approaching almost to cancer in respect to obstinacy. (See Cliniqtte Chir. t. iv. p. 471) In University College Hospital, I employed Dupuy tren's arsenical powder last year, in one or two instances of the same kind, with complete success. In lupus, or noli-me-tangere, it is a valuable application. [In onychia maligna, Mr. Luke speaks highly of an ointment containing two grains of arsenious acid to an ounce of spermaceti ointment.] The liquor potasses arsenitis (Ph. Lond.), or Fowler's solution, is the formula commonly em- ployed for the internal exhibition of this mineral. A fluid ounce of this solution contains four grains of arsenious acid. The dose, according to Dr. Fowler, is as follows :—From two years old to four, M. ij or iij to v ; from five to seven, M. v to vij ; from eight to twelve, M. vij to x ; from thirteen-to eighteen, M. x to xii ; from eighteen upwards, M. xii. These doses may be repeated every eight or twelve hours, the medicine being diluted with thick gruel, or barley-water. [Dr. Pereira remarks, that the quantities here indicated are larger than it will be safe, in most cases, to commence with. Half an ounce, taken in the space of five days, is supposed to have caused death. {Elem. of Mat. Med. 3rd ed. vol. i. p. 669.) For an adult, about five minims is now the ordinary dose ; ten minims would be considered as an excessive quantity by most prac- titioners. As the preparation is decomposed by the infusion and decoction of cinchona, it should never be ordered with either of these medicines. It should be taken immediately after a meal, when the stomach is filled with food; for when given on an empty stomach it is much more likely to oc- casion gastric disturbance. The iodide of arsenic has been recommended by Dr. Walshe in the treatment of scirrhous tumors of the bieast. It should be given in doses of a six- teenth to a twelfth of a grain twice daily, and may be continued without risk for several months. He thinks he has observed that under its use the pain decreases in violence, and that the active growth of the tumor may be diminished, and perhaps sus- pended. (See Treatise on Cancer, p. 202, Lond. 1846.)] It will only bo in my power to specify here a few of the numerous surgical cases in which the internal employment of arsenic has been proposed. The following are particularly worthy of atten- tion : cancer; lupus ; elephantiasis ; onychia ; various unnamed malignant ulcers ; various cutii- neous affections, lepra, psoriasis, eczema, &c. A longer list of diseases, for which a trial of arsenic is suggested, may be seen in some papers published by Mr. Hill. (Ediii. Mud. and Sioy. Journ. vols. v. vi.) In cases of poison by arsenious acid, or arsenite of potash, practitioners universally agree respecting the first indication ; which is, to empty the stoniiicli as quickly as possible, with the stomach pump or an emetic. In this country, if the pump be not at hand, the common practice is to exhibit an emetic of sulphate of zinc, or sulphate of copper, which (it is said) ought to be preferred; first, because it does not require much dilution for its action — a circumstance of no small importance where poi- sons act by being absorbed ; and, secondly, because it is extremely expeditious, a dose of fifteen or twenty grains producing almost instantaneous vo- miting, without exciting that previous stage of nausea, which so frequently characterises other emetics, and which produces a state of the vascular system highly favourable to the function of absorp- tion, (See Pharmac.ologia by Dr. Paris, p. 232, vol. i. ed. 5.), If the pump be used, Dr. A. T. Thomson is of opinion that lime-water should be used to wash out the stomach. The union of lime and arsenious acid forms a nearly insoluble salt ; so that while we are freeing the stomach from its deleterious contents, we are also lessening the virulence of any part of it which may remain. If the above emetics be given, lime-water should be drunk immediately after the first act of vomiting. Oil, and also milk, may be given ; but no dUuent fluid calculated to dilute and dissolve the arsenious acid. Alkaline solutions are objectionable, be- cause the alkaline arsenites are very soluble, and as poisonous as arsenic itself. (See TliomsonsElements of Therapeutics and Materia Med. p. 518, ed. 2.) It is remarked by Orfila, that lime-water ofifers no particular advantage in cases of poison with the solid arsenical acid ; but, where this acid is fluid, he admits the great utility of lime-water, as, in this circumstance, an insoluble arsenite of lime is formed, the action of which is very weak. This last ob- servation is confirmed by experiments on dogs. (Toxicoloffie Generale, t. i. p. 233, ed. 2.) When inflammation of the abdomen, and alarm- ing nervous symptoms prevail, the means of relief are leeches, venesection, the warm bath, fomenta- tions, emollient clysters, and antispasmodic narcotic medicines. Success will depend, in a great measure, upon the regimen observed during the patient's conva- lescence : he should be chiefly nourished with milk- gruel, cream, rice, and beverages of a mucilagi- nous nature. (See Orjila, t. cit. p. 235.) In 1831, the hydrated sesquioxide of iron was discovered, by Dr. Bunsen, to be a powerful anti- dote, if administered in time. (See J. G. Crosse, in Prov. Med. Trans, vol. v. p. 51; J. liobsoii, in Land. Med. Gaz. Nov. 5. 1836.) [If a sufficiently large quantity of the hydrated sesquioxide be added to a solution of arsenious acid, it combines with the acid, and forms an in- soluble precipitate. Dr. Maclagan says that twelve, Dcvergie thirty-two, parts of the hydrated oxide are required for every part of arsenious acid swallowed. Dr. Beck recommends that it should be given in the quantity of a table spoonful every five or ten minutes, or ns often as the patient can swallow it. But it appears from the experiments of Dr. A. Taylor, that when the hydrated sesqui- oxide is mixed with arsenious acid in the form of potvder, that little or no chemical eftect is pro- duced. Now, as in most cases of arsenical poison- ing the ar.'ienious acid is taken in the form of powder, it follows tliat in such the hydrated sesqui- oxide would not act as an antidote. Nevertheless, according to Dr. Beck, the results of its employ-