principles received into the blood, any excess being prevented during Iiealth by the action of the secreting organs. (See Blood, Superalkaline ; SrAN.TBMiA ; Uii^iiMiA.) Other clonienta nuist vary ui proportion ; but pathology has not in many in- stances furnished data to build our practice on the simple indication of excess or deficiency of an ele ment of the blood. 4. As to the proximate constituents.—Changes in the proportions of the proximate constituents have been more generally observed : they are frequentlv the exponents of more complicated morbid condi- tions, and are of the utmost practical importance. The proportion of ivatcr to the solid constituents may be in 'excess or deficiency, and the specific gravity of the blood altered in a very remarkable degree. The proportion has been found as liigh as 871, or even 887, parts in 1000, in some cases of chlorosis and carcinoma, and as low as 480 parts in 1000 in malignant cholera. Hence the terms " poverty of the blood," and " inspissation of the blood." _ But the water, either of the blood (liquor sanguinis + corpuscles), or of the liquor sanguinis or corpuscles viewed separately, may be increased or diminished. As a general rule, the proportion of water to the solids in the liquor sanguinis cor- responds with the proportion in the corpuscles, but in some cases the liquor sanguinis contains a smaller proportion of water to its own proper solids than usual,— the blood, as a whole, being watery, owing to the small proportion of red corpuscles ; and in some cases the specific gravity of the cor- puscles alone is affected. In the leucophlegmatic temperament the proportion of water is absolutely increased, and this increase often occurs to such a a degree as to constitute a true state of disease. (See HYDR/EAriA, Span^emia.) While absorption and imbibition, by which water is conveyed into the blood-vessels to main- tain their plenitude, may promote a state of poverty of blood, as a primary pathological condition, they render a spissitude a much less frequent, if not an exceptional case. When profuse discharges occur, as in diabetes, there is very frequently at the same time a craving for liquids, the volume of the blood being maintained by the fluids ingested. Never- theless, a smaller proportion of water exists in some temperaments as compared with others, and a great degree of spissitude may occur in disease. This has been observed in individuals, during a cholera epidemic, a thin alkaline and coagulablc serum, and the salts of the liquor sanguinis, at the same time passing olT by the kidneys or skin ; and in cholera, a large quantity of water from the blood with albumen and salts, are drained through the alimentary canal, so that the fluid left in the ves- sels becomes inspissated. (See /Jhod, Anh/drous.) The proportion of/«//,y matter is liable'to great variations. Lchmann fed a horse for three days with starch diet alone, by which the proportion nf fat was greatly reduced, both in the arterial and venous blood. An,acccss of fatty particles exists after every full meal containing it, as shown by an opalescence of the serum. This turbidity, partly attributable, however, to albumen in an imperfectly combined state, usually increases for several hours, and often amounts to a inilkinoss, after which it gradually subsides ; and before the next meal, if the interval be sufficient, the liquor sanguinis re- covers its transparency. The proportion of fatty matter must thus be liable to rapid changes, owing BLOOD, PATHOLOGY OF. SS\ to its uioro or less rapid absorption, and the state of the respiratory, nutritive, and eliminating fiuic- tions. The proportion found in the blood has va- ried from "2 in a normal transparent condition, to 117 parts in 1000. An accumulation of cholesterine and other fatty matters, and a more permanent opacity of the serum, has been observed in some diseases. This is said to be the case at the commencement of most acute affections, and particularly in inflammation of the liver, lungs, and peritoneum, and in chronic diseases of the liver, attended with choltemia, where a complete retention of bile has been pro- duced by biliary calculi and other causes. It has been observed also in cholera, albuminuria, and the early stages of tuberculosis. The blood is liable to a still more decided olea- ginous condition, in which the serum presents a perfect resemblance to milk, cream, or pus ; and this has sometimes occurred where none of the above mentioned diseases existed. (See Ol JiMiA.) The importance both of oil and albumen to the nutritive processes is now well understood. It has been suggested that the oily matter is converted into albumen, and if this be one of the metamor- phoses effected in the blood, an explanation is af- forded of the tendency to adipose deposits, and to the fatty degeneration of tissues in states of debilit}-. At all events, some error in the sanguineous ass'i- niilation of fat is associated with various patholo- gical states of fi-equent occurrence in surgical practice. All kinds of cells and cell growths 'un- dergo what is called "fatty degeneration." Mus- cular fibre, both in the heart and in the voluntary muscles, often appears to be transformed into fat. A similar occurrence takes place in the large blood- vessels (atheroma) ; in the smaller vessels and ca- pillaries ; bones; cartilages; in the nerve cells of the brain constituting softening (Z»r. J. Huylies B ennett, p. ; all the glands; pulmonary tissue; cornea- lens; even m the placenta; and in various patholo- gical exudations. From the universality of these transformations, and from the fact that the con- stituents of blood, exuded or extravasated, ex- hibit this change, there can be no doubt that the vital chemistry is primarily at fault. The com- plicated affinities exerted between the calcareous salts and the oleaginous and albuminous molecules appear to be arrested. A morbid condition of the blood of this kind is associated intimately with some of the most im- portant diseases treated of in this Dictionary; as diseases of the arteries, leading to the formation of aneurisms ; diseases of the bones, of the brain the eye, and the car; fatty accumulations in cvsti fattv growths (Lipoma), &c. " ^ A deficiency of fat in the blood is said to occur m conhru.cd tuberculosis. There is ccrlainly a .loficiency in the system when pulmonary phthisis or any of the local forms of this disease hive pro- ceeded far ; and It IS probable that during hectic ever the hydro-carbons arc consumed too rapidly to allow ot the assimilation of fat for nutritive purposes. (Sen TunEucur.osis.) The proportion of nllmmen contained in the blood IS from (,-3 to 71 part., and in serum from /■•' to 0!) parts in 1000; .and this constituent vanes less than any other ; for, although the serum is said snmctimos to contain more than double Its normal quantitj-, rendering the fluid ex- tremely viscid, the accuracy of this statement is