BLADDER. 311 X 4 tween it and the abdominal muscles, or, to speak more strictly, a certain depth of membraiia cel- lularis only, so that, if the trocar penetrate but a little way, it possibly may not enter into the bladder. If it penetrates considerably, it may pass through the bladder into the rectum, or if not in the operation itself, some days afterwards, when by the course of the illness and confinement the patient is more wasted ; for the abdominal muscles shrinking and falling in occasion the extremity of the canula to press against the lower part of the bladder, and in a short time to make a passage into the rectum." (Sharp, in Cri- tical Inqidry, p. 127.) Though the reasons here adduced seem formidable, does not the danger of injuring the peritoneum form an objection to plunging in a trocar at the above distance from the pubes.' Certain it is, peritonitis would be more apt to be induced by such practice than by intro- ducing the instrument nearer to the pubes. Ri- cherand decidedly condemns the plan, principally because the higher the puncture is made, the more apt the bladder will be to quit the canula, on the urine being discharged. (See Nosogr. Ckir. t. iii. p. 472, ed. 2.) In Desault'a works, by Bichat, the puncture is advised to be made immediately above the pubes (t. iii. p. 318). Some of Sharp's objections are removed, by taking care to pass the trocar into the bladder in the axis of this viscus, and employing one which is somewhat curved, as Hunter, Frere Come, Sabatier, &c. have advised. Sharp confirms the danger of using too long a canula, by mentioning an accident which oc- curred in his own practice. Though he intro- duced the instrument more than an inch and a half above the os pubis, j'et, having pushed it full two inches and a half below the surface of the skin, its extremity in six or seven days insinuated itself into the rectum. {Critical Inquiry, p. 127.) The instrument should be more or less long, ac- cording as the patient is fat, or otherwise ; but, the ordinary length should be about four inches and a half. The curvature should be unifonn, and form the segment of a circle, about eight inches in diameter. (QSuvres Cliir. de Desault, par liicliat, t. iii. p. 317.) A catheter left in the bladder longer than ten days, may gather such an incrustation from the urine, as to render the extraction of it difficult. Surgeons, therefore, should never leave the canula in the bladder quite a fortnight ; or, if it must be kept introduced so long, Sharp advises a second one to be introduced, made witli an end like that of a catheter. {Critical hiquiry, p. 129.) Mursinna, however, has reported one example, in which a canula was kept in for a long time without inconvenience. {[Inclicr, Amiales dcr Oes. Malicin. liilO, .Jul. p. 39.) I have seen one such case myself; and another example of the same kind is mentioned by Sir Astley Cooper. {Lectures, vol. ii. p. 310.) Mr. Abcrnethy recommended making an incision between the pyramidales nniscles, passing the fin- ger along the upper part of the symphysis pubis, so as to touch the distended bladder, and introducing a common trocar, of the middle size, in a direction obliquely downwards. On withdrawing thostilette, he directs a midtile-sized elastic catheter to be passed through the canula into the bladder. The canula is withdrawn, and the catheter left in till the urine passes through the urethra. After a week, the instrument is taken out, and a now one introduced. {Stirgical Obs. 1804.) It might bo objected to this plan of employing a gum catheter, that, as it is smaller than the wound, the urine is not kept from passing between the instrument and the parts into which it is introduced, as well as through the tube itselK This happened in Mr. Abernethy's case ; and though no urine in this instance got into the cellular membrane, it might sometimes do so, because it is not till after in- flammation has taken place that the cavities of the cellular tissue are closed with coagulating 13'mph. In one instance where I performed this operation, and substituted an elastic catheter for the silver canula, on the second day it was suspected that some small quantity of urine had got between the catheter and side of the wound ; for, in the posi-motiem examination, pus was found in the course of the puncture, and inflammation of the neighbouring parts. After two days, however, the canula of the trocar may be safely withdrawn, and the elastic gum catheter employed. The following is one of Sir E. Home's conclu- sions :—" When the puncture is made above the pubes, the canula which encloses the trocar is not to be removed, till the surrounding parts have, been consolidated by inflammation, so as to pre- vent the urine, in its passage out, from insinuating itself into the neighbouring parts ; for wherever the urine lodges, mortification takes place. Any advantage, therefore, which may arise from a more flexible instrument remaining in the bladder, is more than counterbalanced by its not filling com- pletely the aperture through the coats of the blad- der, and allowing the urine to escape into the cel- I ular membrane." ( Trans, of a Soc. for Med. and Chtr. Knoioledge, vol. ii.) In six or eight days, when the track of the ca- nula IS surrounded by the adhesive inflammation, some surgeons witlidraw the' tube entirely, be- lieving that, after this space of time, there is no risk of effusion of urine. (See Mancc, Man. da Med. Oper. p. 684.) Whether this should be done, or not, seems to me to depend materially upon the circumstance whether the urine has re- sumed its natural course or not. In the latter case I would not discontinue the employment of the tube. Some surgeons prefer this method to tapping the bladder from the rectum. It is easy. The little thickness of the parts which are wounded renders it quick, and triflingly painful. With mo- derate care, it is almost impossible to miss the bladder, except it be exceedingly contracted,which I believe, was the case in an instance where I saw the late Mr. Abcrnethy fail to make the trocar reach that organ. Jf the trocar be directed too much downwards, it may also not enter the blad- der, but pass between it and the pubes. It should therefore be pushed in a line towards the upper part of the hollow of the sacrum, and not in one leadmg to the poiut of the coccyx. There is no nsk of piercing the peritoneal cavity. Anatomy proves that here the bladder is in iinmediate con- lact with the recti muscles, or rather the fascia transversalis, and that when it is distended with 'inno, It inishes the peritoneum upwards and back- wards, under which it enlarge.-, and thus makes ilie point ol the trocar become more and more dis lant fioin the peritoneum. No nerves nor vessels "1 iniportaiici! are exposed to injury. No diflicultv IS experienced in fixing the canula, the presence