HERNIA. 998 [Under the head of ventral hernia may be mentioned a protrusion in the lumbar region, which is, however, of very rare occurrence. Mr. South in his Notes on Chelius, vol, ii. p. 04, nar- rates the following case from Cloquet: A man, seventy-five years of age, whilst lifting a heavy mat- tress felt a violent pain, with a sense of tearing in his loins, which gradually subsided in the course of six weeks. But, about a fortnight after, whilst getting up in his bed, he had a fresh attack of pain in the same spot. When seen the next day, he was much agitated, had violent colic, sorne nausea and vomiting, and his bowels were costive. The skin in the right lumbar region, without being dis- colored, was raised slightly by a rounded swelling, about five inches from the spine of the vertebrre. It was a little tender, and when grasped, was found to be somewhat elastic, crackling, deeply situated, or at least separated from the skin by a layer of fat. It had a broad pedicle ; increased in bulk and dilated on coughing, sneezing, or making water. He had severe and constant pain deep in the right lumbar and iliac regions, in the course of the csecum and ascending colon. The swelling was much larger when he stood up than when lying down, and when he turned on his face it disap- peared, and left a hollow, readily distinguishable by the touch. He was treated by putting a pad upon the seat of the swelling, after its contents had been returned, and confining it with a circular bandage. | Pudendal Hernia.—This is the name assigned by Sir A. Cooper to the hernia, which descends between the vagina and ramus ischii, and forms an oblong tumor in the labium, capable of being traced within the pelvis, as far as the os uteri. He thinks that this case has sometimes been mistaken for a thyroid hernia. When reducible, a common female bandage, or the truss used for a prolapsus ani, should be worn. A pessary, unless verj' large, could not well keep the parts from descending, as the" protrusion happens so far from the vagina. Sir A, Cooper is of opinion that when strangulated, this hernia, in consequence of the yielding natiire of the parts, may gene- rally be reduced by pressing them, with gentle and regular force, against the inner side of the branch of the ischium. If not, the warm bath, bleeding, and tobacco clysters, are advised. [Chloroform would now be administered in prefer- ence to the adoption of these measures,] Were an operation indispensable, the incision should be made in the labium, the lower part of the sac care- fully opened, and with a concealed bistoury, directed by the finger, the stricture should be cut directly inward, towards the vagina. The bladder should be emptied, both before the manual attempts at reduction and the operation. {On Crural Hernia^ &c. p. 64.) Vaginal Hernia. — A tumor occurs within the OS externum. It is elastic, but not painful. When compressed it readily recedes ; but is reproduced by coughing, or even without it, when the pressure is removed. The inconveniences produced are an inability to undergo much exercise or exer- tion ; for every effort of this sort brings on a sense of bearing down. The vaginal hernia pro- trudes in the space left between the uterus and rectum. This space is bounded below by the peritoneum, which membrane is forced downwards towards the perineum : but being unable to pro- trude further in that direction, is pushed towards the back part of the vagina. In one case, Sir A. Cooper advised the use of a pessary ; but the plan was neglected. Probably, these cases are always intestinal. Some herniffi protrude at the anterior part of the vagina. {Sir A. Cooper., On Crural Hernia, p. 65, 66.) Perineal Hernia. — In men, the parts protrude between the bladder and rectum ; in women, be- tween the rectum and vagina. [Tins hernia in men forms a rounded projection in the perineum, on one side of the raphe, which is displaced from the median line to the opposite side. Sometimes it does not project so as to form an ex- ternal tumor, and its existence can only be dis- tinguished by examination per rectum. Iii women also the tumor is on one side of the median line; but if it enlarges it may occupy the lower part of the labium, and it thenloses its rounded form. In this sex it may be felt both from the vagina, and from the rectum. In both sexes the hernia descends between the fibres of the levator ani and the viscera; the fascia on the inside of this muscle either gives way or is protruded before it.] In case of strangulation, perhaps this hernia might be reduced by pressure from within the rectum. [Should the taxis not succeed and an operation become imperative, it may be performed without much difficulty on either sex, by carefully cutting down upon the tumor, opening the sac, and introducing the finger to the seat of stricture to serve as a guide to the hernia knife. The stric- ture and neck of the sac must be divided together in the direction away fi:om the vagina or rectum.] An interesting case of perineal hernia, which took place from the peritoneum being wounded with the gorget in lithotomy, is related by Mr. Bromfield. (_Chirurgical Obs. p. 264.) The reducible perineal hernia in women may be kept from descending bj' means of a large pessarj-. Both this kind of rupture and the va- ginal may prove very dangerous in cases of preg- nancy. (See Smellie's Midwifery, case 5.) [A spring truss may be worn with advantage in either sex. It should be provided with a curved portion, having the pad attached, and which should de- scend from the posterior part of the circular spring to reach the perineal tumor.] Sacra-rectal Hernia. — In a 3'oung infant, where the ossification of the sacrum was incom- plete, a protrusion is said to have been met with through an opening in that bone. The possibi- lity of such a case should be remembered, in order that the disease may not be mistaken for spina bifida. (See Journ. of Foreign Med, No. 16, p. 616.) Thyroid Hernia.— In the anterior and upper part of the obturator ligament, there is an opening, through which the obturator artery, vein, and nerve proceed, and through which, occasionallj', a piece of omentum, or intestine, is protruded, covered by a part of the peritoneum, whicli constitutes the her- nial sac. In tlie case which Sir A. Cooper met with, the hernia descended above the obturatores mus- cles. The 08 pubis was in front of the neclc of the sac ; three-fourths of it were surrounded by the obturator ligament; and the fundus of the sac lay beneath the pectineus and adductor brevjs muscles. The obtimitor nerve and artery were situated behind the neck of the sac, a httle to- .A