726 FRACTURE, toms, we must take into the account the consider- able pain experienced, and the crepitus perceptible, ■when the fragment is approximated to the surface from which it is detached. [Fracture of the base of the olecranon may be accompanied by a dislocation of the radius and ulna forwards on the condyles of the humerus. Cases of this kind are recorded by Malgaigne. (Trailedes Fractures, ^c. t. ii. p. 633.) Treatmeni.—The indications are to push the re- tracted portion of the olecranon downwards, and to keep it in this position at the same time that the ulna is made to meet it, as it were, by extend- ing the forearm. When there is much swelling. Sir A. Cooper employs leeches and evaporating lotions for two or three days ; but when not much violence has been done to the limb, he applies a bandage at once. He places the arm in a straight position, presses down the fragment until it touches the ulna, and, after putting a slip of linen along each side of the joint, puts a roller round the limb above and below the olecranon. By tying the slips of linen which pass under the rollers, these are drawn nearer together, and the fragment of the olecranon is thus kept as near as possible to the ulna. Lastly, a splint, well padded", is applied along the front of the arm, and secured with a bandage, which is frequently wetted with spirits of wine and water. {On Dislocations, ^-c. p. 490.) Baron Dupuytren applied what is termed the uniting bandage, with a compress above the upper fragment, and an anterior splint. (See Clin. Chir. t. i. p. 328.) According to Desault, however, the forearm should not be completely extended, as, when the pieces of bone touch at their back part, they leave a vacancy in front, which is apt to be followed by an irregular callus, prejudicial to the free motion of the elbow. Hence, it was his practice to put the arm between the half bent and the completely extended state, and to maintain this posture by means of a splint along the fore part of the arm. But, as position operates only on the lower part of the olecranon, the upper one requires to be brought near the former, and fixed there, which is doubtless the most difficult object to effect, because the triceps is continually resisting. Desault used to adopt the following method:— The forearm being held in the above position, the surgeon is to begin applying a roller round the wrist, and to continue it as high as the elbow. The skin covering this part being wrinkled, in consequence of the extension of the limb, might insinuate itself between the ends of the fracture, and consequently it must now be pulled upward by aTi assistant. The surgeon is then to push the olecranon towards the ulna, and confine it in this situation with a turn of the roller, with which the joint is tlum to be covered, by applying it in the form of a figure of 8. A strong splint, a little bent, just before the elbow, is next laid along the arm and foreiirm, and fixed by means of a roller. The limb is then to be evenly supported on a pillow. Camper laid great stress upon the inutility of keeping the arm perfectly extended : he found patients recover sooner and better when the elbow Was kept half bent, and the joint gently exercised at as early a period as possible. " Agglutinationem scilicet motiri non debet chirurgus, sed sublatis tu- moro ac inflammatione quiete 'et remediis aptis, cubitum quotidie prudenter raovere, ut unio per tricipitis tendinera, seu per concretionem mem- branosam formetur, et os ossi non admoveatur. Verbo quemadmodum C. Celsus in Med. lib. viii. 10, § 4, p. 537, de cubito fracto prgecepit. Quod si ex summo cubito quid fractum sit, glutinare id vinciendo alienum est, fit enim brachium im- mobile, ac, si nihil aliud quam dolore occuirendum est, idem qui fuit ejus usus est." {Camper de Fraclura Patella, p. 66, Hagse, 1789.) Mr. Earle is also an advocate for placing the limb in a slightly bent position. {Pract. Obs. p. 165.) The cure of the fractured olecranon is seldom effected by the immediate reunion of its fragments; there generally remains a greater or lesser inter- space between them, which is filled up by a liga- mentous substance. [The impossibility of maintaining the fragments in apposition is the only reason why this fracture is so seldom followed by bony union. In Sir A. Cooper's experiments on animals, transverse frac- tures of the olecranon were always followed by ligamentous union ; but when he divided it in the longitudinal direction, osseous consolidation took place without difficult}'. If, therefore, we could succeed in preventing the retraction of the broken piece, we might expect union by bone to take place in this as readily as in any other fracture, Mr. Lonsdale says he is certain he has seen cases, where close apposition of the ends of the bone had been maintained, in which ossific union had been produced, or something very like it, for not the least motion has existed afterwards, and a dis- tinct ridge of substance like bone has been felt opposite to the seat of fracture. He has not, how- ever, had any opportunity of further verifying this statement by dissection. Sir A. Cooper has met with union by bone when the fracture has been situated very near to the shaft of the ulna. M. Malgaigne also represents in his atlas (pi. xxiv.) a drawing of an oblique fracture of the base of the olecranon united by bone, though with consider- able deformit}'. This case was complicated with luxation of the bones of the forearm forwards. Ligamentous union may, however, undoubtedly be considered the rule, to which union b}' bone is a very rare exception ; the case in which the e.xcep- tion is most likely to take place is when separation is prevented on account of the fibrous tissues con- necting the olecranon with the rest of the bone remaining entire. Sir. A. Cooper has observed that the arm is weakened in proportion to the length of the ligament; for if this be vcrj' long, extension of the arm is rendered difficult from the necessarily diminished power of the triceps muscle ; and that when it is of considerable length, it is often in- complete, having an aperture, or sometimes several apertures, in it. In about a month the splint should be removed, and passive motion begun; but all attempts at movement must be made with the greatest gentleness, for if it be commenced too soon, there is danger of the ligament becoming lengthened and weakened, or even of its being entirely absorbed again. {On Dialocations, ^r. p. 473.) On the other hand, if movement be too hmg delayed, there may be great difficulty in over- coming the stiffness of "the elbow resulting from the continuance of the extended position.] Ankylosis of the elbow-joint has been known to follow a fracture of the olecrnnon. I have seen