1044 HYDRC ^gineta says, the incision is to commence at the middle of the tumor, and be carried to the upper part of it, in a line parallel to the raphe. This in- cision is only to go through the integuments; the bag which contains the water is then to be opened, and part of the sides of the sac taken away. A director is next to be introduced, and a division of the tunica vaginalis made to the bottom of the swelling. The cavity is afterwards to be dressed with lint, and healed by granulations. Hildanus, Dodona;us, Wiseman, Cheselden, Heister, and Sharp, all coincide in stating the dangerous and even fatal consequences sometimes following this mode. Pott also severely condemned this operation, while B. Bell preferred it to every other. [M. Jobert, of Paris, lias cured, several cases by this method, but the treatment proved very severe, and confined the patients to bed for a long time. Mr. Culling has seen three cases of hydrocele, attended with considerable thickening of the snc, successfully treated by incision, after injections bad failed; the consequences were less severe than the representa- tions of Pott and Sharp would lead us to expect: but in these cases the tunica vaginalis was evidently less disposed to inflammation than usual. (See Curling's Work, already quoted, p. 104.) At the present day this plan of treating hydrocele seems all but abandoned, but under certain conditions, in which great thickening of the sac, or loose car- tilages are present, an incision may be made with advantage.] Excision.—Albucasis gave the first clear account of this operation, though Celsus has certainly men- tioned removing some of the sac. AVhite and Douglas used to adopt this method. The latter advised making two incisions, so as to form an oval, from the upper to the lower part of the tumor ; dissecting off the oval piece of the scrotum, and then making an opening into the sac, and enlarging it with scissors. The tunica vaginalis was next to be entirely cut awa)', close to where it was con- nected with the spermatic vessels. The cavity was afterwards filled with lint. [It was in 1755 that Douglas revived excision in England, and about the same period Bertrandi, and several surgeons of eminence in France adopted the operation; but it soon fell into disuse, and is now nearly exploded.] In later years it has been modified by Mr. Kinder Wood, but his plan differs entirely from the ancient method, and is one of the mildest modes of excision yet suggested for the radical cure. It con- sists simply in puncturing the hydrocele with an abscess lancet, and drawing out a little bit of the sac with a tenaculum, and cutting it off. (SeeMerf.- Chir. Trans, vo]. ix. p. 33.) [Sir James Earle, Sir Astley Cooper, and Mr. Curling condemn the opera- tion; tlie last-named surgeon remarks that "Mr. Wood's report, although his experience at the time it was published was very limited, is upon the whole favourable; but the advantages which he claims for this mode are not such as appear to me to entitle it to any preference over injection." (Op.cit.) Mr. Curling has seen -it practised but once, on a young man in whom the sac was thickened, and after injection had failed. In modern days, excision is only sanctioned when the tunica vaginalis is in a more or less ossified state; for a mere thickening of it does pot prevent tlie success of milder plans of tre.atnient. In a case of hydrocele in which the walla of the sac were so thick that they did not collapse after tapping, Mr. Hutchinson dissected nway the front wall, and dressed the opening with charpie. Suppuration followed, and the patient was cured. {SeeMed. Times,\o\. xiv. 1857.) Walsch has practised a more simple proceeding than any of the preceding; it consists of dividing the tissues to the extent of a few lines, down to the vaginal sac dissecting and excising a little flap of the serous membrane, evacuating tlie fluid, and reuniting, by means of sutures,the borders of the wound made in the membrane. (See Nelaton Chir. Path. t. v. p 612.)] Caustic.—Paulus iEgineta advised destroying the skin with a cautery of a particular form, dis- secting off the eschar, and then cauterising the ex- posed membrane. It has been practised and de- scribed by many others, and recommended by Mr. Else and Mr. Cline. The former advised the laying " a small caustic upon the anterior and inferior part of the scrotum, which it is intended to affect, and, if possible, penetrate through the tunica vaginalis." The intermediate parts have also been destroj-ed by the actual cautery. The objections to caustic are the needless de- struction of parts, and the formation of an un- healthy sore; besides which its action cannot always be regulated, its operation is slow, and the conse- quences sometimes unnecessarily severe and painful; and death has been known to ensue from its ap- plication. Its use, therefore, has long been superseded by safer and milder measures. Te?!t.—This was first mentioned by Franco. The operation consists in making an opening into the tunica vaginalis, and keeping the wound open with a tent of lint, linen, or sponge, so as to make the cavity suppurate in which the water was con- tainet^ [Sometimes the tents were smeared with irritating substances, and occasionally a more solid substance, such as a canula, or piece of elastic gum catheter, were introduced in place of the lint, so as to induce inflammation. When the tent was )iot of an irritating nature, and was soon removed, the inflammation excited terminated in the effusion of lymph, and the adhesion of the sides of the membrane. When suppuration followed in less favourable instances, the cyst was obliterated by granulation.] The distinguished French surgeon. Baron Larrey, recommended, after drawing off the fluid by means of a trocar, the passage of a short piece of elastic gum catheter through the canula into the interior of the tunica vaginalis, and to leave it there until a sufficient amount of inflammation was excited to procure adhesion of its surfaces, (il/twi. rie Chir. Militaire, t. iii. p. 409, &c.) [Although he has spoken of it so favourably, it does not seem to have answered in the hands of others; and this, as well as other forms of the tent, are rarely re- sorted to at the present day for the cure of hydro- cele. Recently, however. Dr. Soils cured a double hydrocele in forty-three days by the introduction of lint into the vaginal sac. This plan is called the treatment of Dr. Argumosa, and is frequently practised at Madrid. {La Union, Anaks de Ciruc/ia, 1851.)] The Seton was first mentioned by Guido di Cauliaco in 1498, as a means of curing hydrocele. In modern times, Pott preferred it to every otiier method, if we except injection, of wliich, accor- ding to Sir J. Earle, he expressed his approbation before his decease. "When etimulatiiig lotions fail, Sir A» Cooper retained a preference to the