841 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. occurroiice of suppuration were performed ten times, with three fatal results ; so that the secondary re- sections were more favourable than the primary ones. The resections of the left elbow were most fatal: six out of twelve died, and only one out of seven resected on the right side had an unfavour- able issue. Excision of the Carpus, Metacarpus, and Phalan- ges.—A musket-ball perforating the carpus may so fracture several of the bones, that either amputation of the hand or the removal of the broken bones by excision, may become necessary. Mr. Stanley, in one case of disease of these bones, took away all of them except the trapezium, and even divided the extensor tendons, which reunited, and left a remarkably good motion of the hand and fingers ; but in gunshot wounds such perfect and satisfac- tory results can hardly be expected, as more or less of the tendinous structures slough away, owing to the destruction of their vitality at the time of the injury. Bullets perforating the metacarpus will generally fracture two of these bones; in such cases the shattered ends of the fracture maybe ex- cised with the forceps or sawn off, or the entire metacarpal bone, should the injury be sufficiently extensive to require it, may be removed. As be- fore stated, Esmarch does not advise resection for any of the smaller shafts of the hand, owing to the fear of haemorrhage after the operation. Langen- beck removes the ends of the metacarpal bone and head of the first phalanx, or the distal end of the second and whole of the third phalanx, leaving the nail: the patient recovers with a shortened but use- ful finger. It should be our especial aim in all injuries of the hand to preserve as much as possible; a finger, or portion of a finger, will be infinitely more ser- viceable than any mechanical appliance we can afterwards adapt to the stump. In many of the injuries of the hand the integuments are so much lacerated and contused as to render them very unsuitable cases for any attempt at preservation ; under such circumstances we must of necessity have recourse to amputation.] [Table showing the number and results of cases of Resection of Bones in the English Army during the Crimean War, from 1st April 1855 to the end of the War.] Non-commissioned Officers and Privates. Head of Humerus Head of Humerus and part of Scapula . Shaft of Humerus, 3^ inches .... Elbow-joint Upper articular end, Radius and Ulna . Head of Radius Internal condyle of Humerus .... Part of Carpus and Metacarpus . . . Head of Femur Knee-joint Lower end of Fibula Os Calcis and part of Astragalus . . . Os Calcis Total Total treated. Died. Recovered. Discharged and re-admitted for amputation. 13 1 12 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 17 3 12 2 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 3 1 2 0 6 6 1 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 48 12 34 2 [The Use op Chloroform in Operations FOR Gunshot Wounds.] [This anffistlietic agent was very generally used for arinihilating pain during the performance of severe operations, both by the French and English surgeons, in the recent war in the Crimea. The experience of the former has been by far the most extensive, and according to their published account its employment has been followed by more fortu- nate results than has been the case in the English army. M. Baudens states that it was administered more than twenty-five thousand times without one fatal case occurring; " son triomphe a (?td coniplet," he remarks in reference to its great utility. In our own army it was employed in nearly every opera- tion of magnitude in all except the 2nd Division, and in that more than one half of the operations were performed under its influence. A prejudice seems to have existed in the minds of some one or two of the surgeons against its use, from having witnessed a fatal case in a soldier who had under- gone the operation of amputation of the finger, and this seems to bfive been the only indubitable case attended with a fatal result which can be strictly charged to its account. Others have been referred to, but as they were nil instances of very formi- dable wounds, it is difficult to determine whether the fatal issue was owing to the poisonous influence iif this agent, or due to the severe depression and h)s8 of blood following the injury. In serious wounds it appears to have been the impression of most surgeons of experience that chloroform has a sustaining property rather than other\Yi80,