I 3 It 3 HERNIA, and a Utile on iJta inside of it. (See Lawrence, On Ruptures, p. 414, ed. 4.) In the male subject " the crural hernia, in the early stage (says Scarpa), is situated so deeply in the bend of the thigh that it is difficult, even in the thinnest persons, to feel its neck ; and, in exam- ining its circumference with the extremity of the finger, the tendinous margin of the opening, through which the parts are protruded, can only be perceived with considerable difficulty. On the contrar}', the inguinal hernia, however small it may be, is always less deeply situated. It is about half an inch above the bend of the thigh. In carrying the finger round its neck, the tendinous margin of the inguinal ring can be easily felt at its circumference ; and, at the posterior part of the small tumor, the cord, composed of the spermatic vessels, is distinguishable. When the crural hernia has acquired a considerable size, its neck is ahoays deeply situated in the lend of the thigh ; hut its hoJy and fundus assume an oval form, and their great diameter is situated transversely in the Lend of the thigh. Whatever may be the size of the in- guinal hernia, it always presents a tumor of a pyramidal form, the base or fundus of which, far from being directed towards the ilium, follows ex- actly the direction of the spermatic cord, and descends exactly into the scrotum. Besides the symptoms common to all hernial swellings, the crural hernia, when it has attained a certain size, presents some others which are peculiar to it, such as a sense of stupor and heaviness in the thigh, and cedema of the leg, and even of the foot, of the same side." The reason why oedema and numbness of the limb are particularly remarkable in cases of femoral hernia is justly referred by Hesselbach to the circumstance of the femoral vessels and nerves, with numerous lymphatics, taking their course through the crural "ring ; and, according to his observations, the numbness and cedema are especially great when the protrusion is omentum, which makes stronger pressure on the vessels and nerves than commonly happens in a case of ente- rocele ("p. 63). One case is recorded in which the pressure of nn omental femoral hernia on the great vessels had produced a varicose state of the vein, and a partial obliteration of the artery. (See Jules Cloquet, Patholof/ie Chir. p. Oli.) This"kind of hernia is not disposed to attam so large a size as that which an inguinal hernia occa- sionally exhibits. Yet, sometimes its magnitude is considerable, and its contents numerous. Thus, an instance was published by Professor Lallement, in which a femoral hernia, of forty years standing, contained the uterus. Fallopian tubes, the ovaries, a part of the vagina, and a considerable piece of the omentum. (See Bulletins dc la Facullu, Janvier 1816'; anAJides Cloquet,\n Pathol. Chir.-p. 104.) "In women, however (as Scarpa observes), it is less easy to distinguish the crural hernia from the inguinal. In fact, the absence of the spermatic cord, and the nearer situation of the ring to the crural arch, may easily occasion a mistake. Some- times a woman may even be supposed to have a double crural hernia of the same side, whilst of these two distinct, though neighbouring hernico, one may be inguinal and the other crural. Arnaud {Mem. de Chir. t. ii. p. 005) relates an instance of such a mistake." {Scarpa, Traitc dcs Ilcrnics, \i. 207, 2011.) 081 This interesting writer takes occasion to observe further, upon this part of the subject, that the por- tion of the inferior pillar of the abdominal ring, which separates this opening from the internal and inferior angle of the crural arch, is so slender in women, that it is sometimes hard to distinguish the crural from the inguinal hernia, which is not the case in male patients. Some time ago, the stricture, in cases of fe- moral hernia, was always supposed to be produced by Poupart's ligament. A change of opinion on this subject, however, took place, in conse- quence of the observations made by Gimbernat in 1793. "In the crural hernia," says he, "the aperture through which the parts issue, is not formed by two bands (as in the inguinal hernia), but it is a foramen almost round, proceeding from the internal margin of the crural arch (Poupart's ligament), near its insertion into the branch of the OS pubis, between this bone and the iliac vein; so that in this hernia the branch of the os pubis is situated more internally than the intestine and a little behind, the vein externally and behind, and the internal border of the arch before. Now it is this border which always forms the strangulation." (See A Neiv Method of operating for the Femoral Hernia.) The utility of knowing that it is not Poupart's ligament which produces the strangulation, is in- sisted upon by Gimbernat as exceedingly impor- tant; for we then know, that cutting the lower and outer border of the external oblique muscle is quite erroneous. This proceeding is the more to be reprobated, because the lower pillar of the ab- dominal ring, in both sexes, will be divided by di- recting the incision upward, or upward and inward; and thus the abdominal and crural rings will be made into one common aperture, large enough to make the future occurrence of hernia very likely' to happen. In the male there is also considerable danger of the spermatic cord being cut. Cutting Poupart's ligament obliquely outwards is attended with still more danger; for the epigastric artery will infallibly be divided at its origin; and with all these hazards, the incision must be quite useless, unless carried on to the internal edge of the crural arch. {G'imbei-nat, p. IC.) The inclination, however, of several modern writers to refer the strangulation entirely to Gim- bernat's ligament is not sanctioned by the most careful observers, like Hesselbach and Langen- beck. {Neue BM. b, ii. p. 132.) The former justly remarks, that a complete femoral hernia may bo strangulated in two places, either at the outer or iimer opening of the passage, through which the protrusion happens. Nay, says ho, that the stran- gulation is sometimes caused by the outer opening was known to former surgeons, lor they remarked that the constriction was removed by dividing the fascia (p. 53). And, in addition to these two modes of strangulation, is to be enumerated a third, in whicli the viscera are constricted by protruding through some weaker point, or accidental opening, in the anterior parietes of the crural canal {Hessel- bach, p. 48; Cloquet, licchcrchcs Anat. p. 85; also Lanycnbcck, op. cit. p. 132); or even through nn aperture in the inner side of this passage, as wo find depicted in the twentieth plate of Langen- bcck's treatise, " Uo Structura Peritonrei." When the dissection of the inguinal region ia begun from witliin, the following circumstances are