240 ANEURISM. ring finger^ the other on that of the little finger of the left hand. They extended along each finger to the middle of it, and were of a violet colour, spongy feel, and of a structure resembling placenta. They shrunk under pressure, but recovered their size on its being removed ; throbbed strongly, as did all the vessels of the arm : were excessively painful, and attended with irritability of the whole frame. The radial and ulnar arteries were en- larged, the latter tortuous ; and the basilic vein had a varicous appearance. The disease had ex- isted five years, and bled freely and frequently. Mr. Ru3sell recommended the removal of the two fingers at the metacarpal joints, which the woman objected to. In about two months, however, she returned, willing to imdergo any operation which Mr. Russell deemed necessary. The disease had now extended itself, so as to form one aneurismal tumor at the commissure of the two fingers. The placenta-like appearance reached to the wrist ; the arm was of an erythematous hue to the elbow ; the tumors had ulcerated and sloughed ; and the carious phalanges protruded from the gangrenous fingers, which were enlarged, and dreadfully pain- ful. The increased pulsation and magnitude of the arteries extended to the axilla. Mr. Russell first tied the ulnar artery, and then amputated the ring and middle fingers, with their metacarpal bones, at the carpus. The stump healed well ; and a valuable portion of the hand was saved. Three years after the operation, the vessels of ^the arm had resumed their natural appearance, and the woman was able to follow the business of a laundress. This case Mr. Russell believes unusual, as having occurred in a person of advanced life ; and he considers that it exemplifies the truth of Mr. Wardrop's observation, that a ligature on the artery, leading to the disease, may render the excision of it practicable, when this proceeding would otherwise be unsafe. However, Mr. Russell took up the ulnar artery, he says, for a different purpose ; namely, that of enabling him to cut close to tiie disease. The case proves also, that the secondary effects on the surrounding parts, and, especially, the extensive enlargement of the blood- vessels, will subside after the excision of the erectile tumor. (See J. Russell, in Lond. Med. Gaz. for April, 183G.) Most of those aneurisms by anastomosis which admit of being extirpated by a ligature, may also be destroyed with strong caustic, like pure potassa, the acid nitrate of mercurj--, &c. This plan, which was particularly recommended by Mr. Wardrop, and is an old practice, was sometimes adopted by Dupuytren. I have followed it in some instances, and found it answer, tliough the necessity of repeating the application several times makes it a more tedious method of cure than the ligature, I lately attended a child with Mr. Jephson, of Hampton, for a large thick najvus on tlie forearm : in this instance, the caustic answered exceedingly well, but it was indispensable to apply it several times. It seems to act partly by convert- ing portions of the tumor into sloughs, and partly by exciting an ulcerative process in the remainder. Dupuytren regarded the actual cautery as a still surer moans of extirpating erectile tumors than caustic, though rarely employed, on accomit of tlie terror which it excites. (6W/i. Chir. t. iv. p. 33.) The acid nitrate of mercury was the caustic whicli he was in the habit of using. (Op. cit. p. 20.) Whatever will change the texture by exciting a general and severe inflammation of an erectile tumor, and an obliteration or annihilation of its vessels, will effect a cure. The treatment on this principle is sometimes practicable. Thus, swell- ings composed of erectile tissue have occasionally been cured by compression ; a plan which Aber- nethy wrote in favour of, and which both he and Dupuytren tried in several instances with success. The latter sometimes applied this method to the lips, the diseased portion of which was placed be- tween a compressing instrument. On the principle of changing the organisation of the erectile tissue, and converting it into the fibrous, M. Lallemand has treated certain tumors of this description very successfully by exciting inflamma- tion in them by the introduction of pins through them. One of his most interesting cases is that of an infant three months old, which had an erectile tumor over the scapula, three inches in length and two in diameter, with a red granular surface. Compression had been tried in vain. M. Lalle- mand first introduced a dozen fine pins through the inferior portion of the tumor, and covered the spaces between them with waxed thread variously twisted. Three days afterwards, a similar oper- ation was repeated on the opposite side. The pins were left in their places seven or eight days, till they had excited sufficient inflammation. The rest of the tumor was afterwards attacked, and in the course of two months and a half, after 120 pins had been introduced at successive periods, a cure was afl:ected, without the loss of a spoonful of blood, a uniform glossy cicatrix being left. Long fine pins, such as are used for transfixing insects, are preferable to common sewing needles. (See Lallemand, in Arcliives Geti. de Aled. t. viii. se'r. 2.) On the same principle of exciting inflammation, and changing the texture of erectile tumors, cm-es have occasionally been accomplished by passing a couching needle into them and breaking up their structure. Stimulating injections have likewise been thrown into their substance with the same view. (Lluj/d, in Med. Gas.for 1836-^7.) Most of these latter methods seem to me only eligible when the tumor is of limited size, and its base not too deep. Erectile tumors are more frequently noticed on the lips than any other part of the bod.v, a circum- stance ascribed by Dupuytren to their spongy vascular structure. (CW«. C/h>. t. iv. p. 51.) But they have been met with in the arm, forearm, hand, fingers, thigh, instep, scalp, ear, cheek, labia pudendi, substance of the skin, muscles, perios- teum, bones, kidney, liver, &c. In the work last cited, reference is made to an example where the skin, muscles, and bones of the upper extremitj', all became affected from the fingers to the shoulder (t. iv.p. 52). . Besides the varieties of aneurism particularly treated of in the foregoing columns, there is another rarer form of the disease, named by Breschet cirsoid aneurism (from x:po-of, a varicose vein, and eUos, like) ; and by Dupuytren, nWfnW fan'.r, in consequence of its resemblance to a varicose vein. It consists in the dilatation of an artery in a greater or lesser portion of its extent, and fre- quently through the whole of an arterial trunk and its branches. In addition to the transverse dilata- tion, the arterv is elongated and tortuous, so as to describe bendings and windings in various d(-groi's.