^•^^ I-LTIMORRIIAGE were neither observed nor comprehended. (See Amputation, Aneurism, Arteries, and Liga- ture.) We may next inquire, are small round ligatures most advantageous when arteries are ossified? M. Manec states, that, under these circumstances, such a ligature will break the calcareous and car- tilaginous deposits into irregular fragments, so that the external coat, instead of making moderate and uniform pressure on the section of the middle and internal tunics, is distended and violently pushed up by the irregular edges of each fragment. At one of these points, the external coat is likely to give way Ijetween the second and fourth day. M. Manec further notices the greater difficulty and slowness with which the exudation of a plastic lymph, the exhalation of an unctuous matter, and the formation of a clot, in an artery thus diseased and tied, occur, than in a healthy artery similarly treated. These considerations lead him to join Boyer (Mai. Chir. t. ii. p. 139, 155) in deeming small, round, firm ligatures, or even those which are composed of three or four threads, as improper for ossified arteries ; he states, that they ought to be rejected, because they too quickly cut through the external coat. In these particular examples, he expresses a preference to arterial compressors (presse-arteres), or to Scarpa's method, care being taken not to let the pressure, or constriction, be too consideralile. In amputations, cases in which os- sified arteries are frequently met with, M. Manec admits the unfitness of any arterial compressors, on account of their irritation and interference with the dressing of the stump. In these instances, there- fore, he says, that either Scarpa's method, or, what is better, the introduction of a piece of bougie into the ossified artery, as practised by MM. Dupuy- tren and Roux, is the only resource. (See P. J. Manec, De la Ligature, ^c. p. 25.) One infer- ence made by him is, that when an artery is ossi- fied or cartilaginous, the formation of a clot is the only thing which can be confided in as a means of closing the vessel. (P. 30.) Dr. Jones seems to consider that the advantage of the retraction of the divided artery within the cellular tissue is compensated, in the case of the un- divided artery, by the speedy and profuse effusion of lymph which takes place over and round the vessel at the tied part, and even covers the liga- ture itself. Another cause of secondary hcemor- rhage is the including of other parts in the liga- ture together with the artery, by doing which the division of the inner coats of the vessel niiiy be prevented. In the valuable publication of Dr. Jones, to which I have so freely adverted, some secondary hsemorrhages are also imputed to tiie hidden sepa- ration, or laceration, of the recently united parts of an artery by premature and extraordinarj' exer- tions of the patient. Hence the necessity for keep- ing a limb, in which a large artery has been tied, perfectly at rest. I shall conclude these remarks on the ligature with a few practical rules. 1. Always tie a large artery as separately as possible, but still let the ligature be applied to a part of the vessel which is close to its natural con- nections. Besides the reasons for this practice already spe- livW, . "'''"-'■•^•e. that the inclusion of other "'i, textures in the ligature produces immense pain, and causes a larger part of a wound to remain disunited; the ligature is also apt to become loose as soon as the substance between it and the artery sloughs or ulcerates.- Sometimes the ligature, tiius applied, forms a circular furrow in the flesh, and re- mains a tedious time incapable of separation. In particular, the surgeon should take great care not to include in the ligature considerable nerves or veins: "intolerable pain, and, frequently, very serious ef- fects, would immediately follow the constriction of a nervous trunk. Tyhig large veins does not pro- duce any instantaneous bad symptoms ; but it has often led consecutively to phlebitis, and been fol- lowed by symptoms which have too often proved fatal." {Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 390.) The blood-vessels being organised like other living parts, the healing of a wounded artery can only take place favourably, when that part of the vessel, which is immediately contiguous to the ligature, continues to receive a due supply of blood through its vasa vasorum, which are rami- fications of tlie collateral arteries. Hence the dis- advantage of putting a ligature round the middle of a portion of an arter}', which has been separated from its surrounding connections; and hence the utility of making the knot as closely as possible to that part of the vessel which lies undisturbed among the surrounding flesh. Small arteries neither allow, nor require, these minute attentions to the mode of tying them. •2. When a divided artery is large, open- mouthed, and quite visible, it is best to take hold of it, and raise its extremity a little way above the surfiice of the wound, with a pair of forceps, or Assalini's double tenaculum. When the vessel is smaller, the common tenaculum is the most con- venient instrument. 3. While the surgeon holds the vessel in this way, the assistant is to place the noose of the liga- ture round it, and tie it according to the above directions. In order that the noose may not rise too high, and even above the mouth of the artery, when it is tightened, the ends of the ligature must be drawn as horizontally as possible, which is best done with the thumbs. A knot is next to be made. 4. As ligatures alwaj's operate in wounds as extraneous bodies, and one half of each is sufficient for the removal of the noose when detached, the otlier should be cut off close to the knot and taken awaJ^ As I have explained in the articles Amputation and Ligature, trials have been made of ihe practice of cutting ofl:' both ends of the ligature close to the knot, with the view of diminishing as far as possible the quantity of extraneous sub- stances in the wound. Upon the whole, the plan is not, however, con- sidered to be advantageous, because the portion of the ligature, left in the wound, whatever be the materials of which it is composed, is never absorbed, but gives rise to small abscesses, or even causes a fistulous opening in a stump, of which I lately saw an instance in University College Hospital. In this case, as the two ends of the liga- ture had been accidentiilly, and not intentionally, snipped oif, the cause of the fistula was, for nearly a fortnight, unsuspected. 5. When a large artery is completely divided, two ligatures,—one to the upper, the other to the lower part of the vessel,—are commonly necessary,