656 EYE. ment, previously to which period good surgery may be employed with effect. In this light Scarpa regards many excrescences on the conjunctiva and anterior hemisphere of the eye, which appear in consequence of a staphyloma of the cornea long exposed to the air and ulceration; those which arise from relaxation and chronic inflammation of the conjunctiva; from ulceration of the cornea, neg- lected or improperly treated ; from violent oph- thalmia, not of a contagious nature, treated in the acute stage with astringent and irritating applica- tions; from suppuration of the eye, rupture of the cornea, and wasting of the eyeball; or from blows or burns on the part. Nothing, says Scarpa, is more probable than that all these ulcerated fungi were, on their first appearence, not ot malignant character, or certainly not cancerous, and that many of them were not actually so at the time of a suc- cessful operation being done. Now, in the opinion of the same valuable author, there is no criterion as yet known of the precise time when a sarcoma of the eye changes from the state of a common ulcerated fungus to that_ of carcinoma; for the exquisite sensibility, darting pains, rapidity of growth, colour, and ichorous discharge, are not an adequate proof of cancer. The symptom, however, on which he is inclined to place the greatest dependence, as a mark of the change in question, is the almost car- tilaginous hardness of the malignant ulcerated fungus, which induration, he asserts, is not met with in the benign fungus, and never fails to pre- cede the formation of cancer. (See Scarpa, On the Eye, transl. by Briggs, edit. 2, p. 511—513.) 4thly. The last difference of fungus hsema- todes from cancer of the eye, here to be noticed, is the pulpy softness of the whole of the diseased mass, in the first of these diseases; a character completely opposite to the firm almost cartilaginous consistence of the carcinomatous fungus. What is termed fungus haematodes may be composed of a combination of medullary, erectile, and melanotic matter; but in other instances, either of the latter may exist as a separate disease, dif- ferent from fungus hfematodes. (SeeANEURisM by Anastomosi-s, NiEvi, and Melanosis.) For the diagnosis of cancer in the interior of the eye see Ophthalmoscope. Before describing the operation of removing an eye, affected with malignant disease, the following corollaries, drawn by Scarpa, should be recollected 1. The complete extirpation of the eye, for the cure of fungus htematodes, although performed on the first appearance of the disease under the form of a yellowish spot, deeply seated in the ej'C, is useless, and rather accelerates the death of the patient. But, although this statement, made by Scarpa, is mostly true, modern experience justifies the hope that exceptions to the foregoing melan- choly inference are possible. Thus Mr. Wishart removed from a boy, nine years old, an eye that had been affected with fungus hrematodes about four months, and no relapse had taken place eigh- teen months after the operation. (SeeEdin. Med. and Siirg. Journ. No. Ixxvi. p. 51.) 2. The exterior fungus excrescence of the eye, commonly called carcinoma, beginning on the conjunctiva and anterior hemisphere, xvhile il sffi, jkxi/i/e, and pulpy, although accompanied with symptoms similar to those of carcinoma, is not actually this disease, nor does it becom lignant and strictly cancerous, until it is rigid, hard, coriaceous, warty, and, in every respect, scirrhous. 3. The inveterate fungous excrescence, hard to the touch in all its parts, covered with ulcerated warts, wliich has involved the whole of the e3-eball, optic nerve, and surrounding parts, and rendered the bones of the orbit carious, and contaminated the lymphatic glands behind the angle of the jaw, and in the neck, is incurable. 4. On the contrary, the partial or total extirpa- tion of the eye will succeed, when attempted before the e.xternal fungous excrescence has changed from the state of softness to that of a scirrhous, warty,and carcinomatous hardness. (Vol.cit. p.526.) The operation of removing the eye is commonly believed to have been first performed in the six- teenth century by Bartisch; but, as M. Velpeau observes, it had probably been executed at a much earlier period, for J. Lange, who published in 1555, states that he succeeded in reducing into the orbit an eye, which some other surgeons wished to extirpate. (Nouv. Elem. de Mid. Opir t. i. p. 781.) Bartisch employed an instrument, shaped like a spoon, with cutting edges, and by means of which the eye was separated from the surrounding parts, and taken out of the orbit. Fabricius Plildanus preferred asort of probe-pointed bistoury. Bidloo made use of scissors and a pointed bistoury. Until the time of M. Louis, no precise di- rections had been given about the mode of per- forming the operation: his method consists in dividing the attachments of the eye to the eyelids; then those of the inferior oblique muscle; next, those of the superior oblique muscle; then those of the levator palpebrie superioris, vaiying, according to their insertions, the manner of holding the knife. The eyeball is afterwards detached, and the four recti muscles, and optic nerve, divided with a pair of scissors. The following is the ordinary method : — \st Stage. Two semilunar incisions are first to be made at the base of the orbit, and the eyelids are to be detached from it, and dis- sected away with the rest of tlie tumor. But, when the eyelids are to be preserved, the first step consists in making an incision about an inch in length, through their external commissure. The eyelids are then to be everted, and the front of the tumor is then to be taken hold of with a tenaculum, single or double, or a ligature may be passed across it. 2nd Stage. The point of the knife is then in- troduced at the inner angle, and passed close to the ethmoid bone nearly down to the foramen opticum. It is then to be cduveycd across the floor of the orbit, so as to divide the attiichment of the inferior oblique muscle, the connection of the conjunctiva to the eyelid, and some .adipose and cellular tissue. It is next to be brougiit gain to the inner angle, and, with the edge turned upward, the superior oblique muscle is to be cut, and the blade carried across the upper part of the orbit, in which movement some operators endeavour to cut out also the lachrymal gland, as the knife is about to unite the two incisions near the external angular process. 3/-(/ Stage. The eye is now only retained in the orbit "by a kind of pedicle, composed of the four recti muscles and the optic nerve. Sup-