8''^ HARE commends the iiSe of internal sutures to secure union of the mucous membrane, and his practice has been followed by others ; but it is not to be recommended, as these internal sutm-es irritate the infant unnecessarily. If union by first intention fail, the granulating edges may be brought together again, either by suture, or by careful application of the truss and plaster ; and good imion is frequently obtained in this way after apparent failure. During the first few hours after operation, it is alwaj's necessary to be on the watch for quiet in- sensible hajmorrhage into the child's mouth. A good deal of blood is often swallowed, and melaena is frequently observed after hare-lip operations. In those cases where young children have been said to die of " convulsions " after these operations, the convulsions have most probably been heemor- rhagic] The pins should be introduced at least two thirds of the way through the substance of the lip, lest a furrow should remain on the inside of the part which might allow pieces of food to lodge in it. There is,_however, a stronger reason for attending to this circumstance, viz. the heemorrhage which may take place when it is neglected. As soon as the edges of the wound have been brought together by means of the sutui-e, and the pins are properly placed, the bleeding ceases ; but when the pins have not been introduced deeply enough, and the posterior surfaces of the incisions are not applied to each other, the blood may continue to run into the mouth, and give the surgeon an immense deal of trouble. In the memoir written by Louis there is a case in which the patient died in consequence of such an accident. Persons who had undergone the operation were formerly advised to swallow their spittle, even though mixed with blood, in order to avoid disturbing the wound by getting rid of it otherwise. In the case alluded to, the patient, who had been operated upon for a cancerous affec- tion of the lip, swallowed the blood as he had been directed to do, and he bled so profusely that he died. On the examination of the body, the stomach and small intestines were found full of blood. When there is a fissure in the bones forming the roof of the mouth, it usually diminishes, and gradu- ally closes, after the hare-lip is cured. But this does not always happen ; and when the parts re- main so considerably separated as to obstruct speech and deglutition, or cause any other inconvenience, a plate of gold exactly adapted to the arch of the palate may sometimes be usefully employed. In such cases dentists usually fix the plate of gold by means of springs of the same metal. Platina, which IS cheaper, might be used for the same purpose. [The subject, however, of artificial palates is one on which much mechanical ingenuity has been use- fully exerted, especially of late, since the hardened rubber called vulcanite has been used by dentists, Mr. Parkinson has published some interesting cases, showing how admirably this substance may be em- ployed for artificial palates. Fissure of the soft pala,te may be closed either by operation, or by the addition of a sort of curtain of rubber to the vulcan- ite palate. (See Palate; Staphyi.oraphy.) In cases where the notch or indentation has been allowed to remain after the cure of hare-lip, it may easily be remedied by paring off the red margin of ine lip on both sides and uniting the raw surfaces accurately. The mucous ring formed by the lips LIP. is so extensible that this proceeding is very easy and successful.] T. Spencer Wells. Bibliography.—See B. Bell's Surgery, vol. iv. Ueister's Surgery. Lc Bran's Operations. Sliarn's Operations. F. D. Herissant, M^m. de I'Acad. des Sciences, annfee 1743, p. 86. G. De la Faye, Mdm. de I'Acad. Royale de Cbir. t. i. p. 605, ann^e 1743. A. handifort, Obs. Anat. Pathol. 4to. et Museum Anat. p. no, 164, Lugd. Bat. 1777. Flajani, Col- lezione d'Osserv. &c. t. iv. 8vo. Roma. Latta's Surgery, vol. ii. Louis, in M^m. de I'Acad. de Chir. t. IV. p. 385. 4to. annde 1768 ; t. v. p. 292, ann(;e 1774. Ue la M^decine Op(;ratoire, par Sabatier, t. in. p. 272, 8vo. Paris, 1810. CEuvres Chir. de Desault, par Btchat, t. ii. p. 173. Traits des Operations de Chirurgie, par A. Bertrandi, chap. 19. P. N. Haguette, Sur le Bec-de-li6vre nature], 4to. Paris, 1804. J. Kirby, Cases, &c. 8vo. Lend. 1819 : forceps recommended for holding the lip in the operation. Richter, Anfangsgr. der Wundarzn. b. ii. kap. 7. Locher, De Operatione Labii leporini, Jenas, 1792. Fretur, De Labio leporino, Halas, 1793. Rieg, Von der Hasenscharte, Frankf. 1603. J. M. Chelius, Handb. der Chir. b. i. p. 425, Heidelb. 1825. Sprengel, Geschichte der Chir. Operationen, b. i. p. 155. Graefe, Angiectasie, v. Langenbeck Bibl. b. ii. p. 359. Eckoldt, Ueber eiue sehr complicirte Hasenscharte, Leipz. 1804, fol. Sir Astley Cooper's Lectures, ed. by Tyrrell. Baron Dupmlren, in Le?ons Orales de Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 89. R. Listoii, in Elements of Surgery. Alf. Velpeau, Nouv. El^m. de M6d. Opdr. t. ii. art. 1. 8vo. Paris, 1832. J. F. Malgaigne, Manuel de Mfed. Oper. p. 439, ed. 2., 12mo. Paris, 1837. [Dieff'enbac/t, Operative Chirurgie, Berlin, 1848. Roux, Chirurgie Rdparatrice, Paris, 1853. Soupert, op. cit. Brussels, 1850. Cooper Forster, op. cit. Lend. 1860; and the works of Fer- gusson, Pirrie, Miller, Syme, Druitt, &c.] HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. [Under this division are included all injuries affecting the scalp and pericranium, the skull itself, the membranes of the brain, and the encephalon. The position of the human cranium at the sum- mit of the spinal column, and the remarkable structure and arrangement of its bones, afford evi- dence of an all-wise provision against external injury ; but its exposed position renders it liable to accidents from which no foresight could have protected it. The pulpy tissue of which the brain is composed is obviously predisposed to concussion, contusion, and laceration, from the unyielding na- ture of its bony walls, and this predisposition to injury increases as the skull becomes consolidated by growth ; nevertheless the effects of external violence are very materially modified, by the elasticity and springiness of the processes of tlie dura mater, which are interposed between the segments of the brain, and by the soft cushion of cerebro-spinal fluid on which this delicate organ rests.] Injuries of the Scalp. [In this article will be considered, first, injuries of the scalp. The scalp is composed of the following tissues arranged in strata. The common integument constitutes the first layer ; this is comparatively inelastic, and connected to the subjacent tendon of the occipito-frontalis muscle by aponeurotic slips, in the interspaces of which is found a large quan- tity of firm granular fat: numerous blood-vessels and nerves are distributed upon it, and it is en- dowed with a higli degree of sensibility'. Beneath this lies the occipito-frontalis muscle with its broad flat tendon stretched between its anterior and posterior muscular bellies. Laterally are the temporal aponeuroses and the temporal muscles.