I "'•^ DISLOCATION. Laokwards upon the tenth. The superior articular processes of the tenth could bo brought into contact with the body of the ninth vertebra. {Seo Mai- gaiyne, Traili desFracl. t^ c. vol. ii. p. 38i.)] Dislocations of the Ribs. Dislocation of the Ribs from the VertchrcB.—J. L. Petit believed such a case never occurred. Buttet related an instance, which he supposed to be a dislocation of the posterior extremity of the rib from the vertebra ; but Boyer clearly proved that no true reasons existed for this opinion, and that the case was only a fracture of the bone, near the spine. {Mai. Chir. t. iv. p. 123.) Pare', Barbette, Juncker, Platner, and Heister, not only admit the occurrence of luxations of the ribs, but describe different species of them. Lieutaud ex- tended the term luxations to cases in which the head of the rib is separated by disease, the pressure of aneurisms, &c. [Sir A. Cooper mentions the case of a patient who had died of fever, in whom, at the post-mor- tem examination, the head of the seventh rib was found thrown upon the front part of the corres- ponding vertebra, and there ankylosed. Several years before, this gentleman had been thrown from his horse across a gate, for which accident he had been subjected to the treatment usually followed in fractures of the ribs, and there is every reason to believe that it was at this time that the disloca- tion occurred. {On Dislocations, S^c. edited by B. Cooper, p. 521.) The following case came under the observation of Dr. Kennedy of Dublin. A gentleman, £Bt. 20, while standing on a scaffold, felt it suddenly give way. He fell through, and a portion of the scaffold then fell down upon him. On examining the back, there was extensive ecchymosis in the lumbar region, and it was found that the two last ribs of the left side were displaced downwards and for- _ wards ; there was a distinct hollow where their heads should have been, and pressure on their sternal extremities caused the vertebral ends to move distinctly. There was no crepitus, or other evi- dence of fracture. A bondage was applied, and the dislocated ribs, it is said, came back to their natural position in about three weeks. (See Dub- lin Meilical Press, vol. v. 1841, p. 30.) Several other cases are recorded in the same jour- nal. In one, the patient, a boy aet. 11, received a heavy blow on the back from a lump of turf He was admitted ten days afterwards to the Queen's County Infirmary, under the care of Dr. Jacob, with para- lysis and retention of urine, and on examination a tumor was discerned at the left of the spine, ex- tending over the heads and necks of the three or four last ribs. The tenth and eleventh ribs ad- mitted of more depression than the others, and led to the suspicion of fracture or dislocation, but the tumor interfered with the examination of the ribs posteriori}'. The boy_ died six days later from suppuration around the scat of the injury, and it was found that there was complete dislocation for- wards of the tenth, and partial dislocation of the eleventh ribs from their vertebral articulations. The separation of the tenth rib was sufficient to admit the insertion of the point of the little finger between the head of the bone and the articulating surface on the vertebras, (p. 70.) In anotiicr case, seen by Dr. Finucane, the patient, a girl, a;t. 15, was killed by the falling in of the roof of a cottage. One of the beams that had fallen in had fractured her skull, and another beam was found with one end resting on her back. On examination, there was found to be a com- plete dislocation of the two last ribs of the leftside- the ligaments were ruptured, and the heads of the. ribs easily moved inwards to some extent, by grasping the anterior ends of these bones, fu. 145.) In a third case, a youth, a!t. 17, fell from the top of a high tree, striking his back on one of the roots i which was above the surface of the ground. Tliere was an indentation at the place of the junction of: the two last ribs of the right side with the spine,, and these bones were therefore supposed to have; been dislocated, but the description of the case is not very conclusive, as the boy rapidly recovered,, and ten days afterwards no depression could be i discerned, (p. 229.) From these cases it would appear that direct t violence applied over their spinal articulations does i occasionally produce dislocation of the ribs, and that the two or three last ribs are most liable to the accident, doubtless on account of the greater loose- - uess of their ligaments and of their greater ex- ■ posure, consequent upon the slight development off tlie transverse processes of the vertebrse in the lower : part of the dorsal region. ' Dislocations of the Cartilages of the Ribs.—In a i modern work may be read the particulars of a case, where all the ribs were dislocated from their car- tilages, in consequence of the chest being violently compressed between the beam of a mill and the wall. In such a case there is no means of reduc- tion, except the effect produced by forcible inspira- tions ; nor are there any modes of relief, but bleeding, and the application of a roller round the chest. (See C. Bell's Surg. Obs. p. 171.) [M. Bouisson met with a case in which the car- tilage of the fourth rib was separated and dis- placed backwards. The patient had been thrown from a donke)', and the animal had stepped upon i his chest. M. de Kimpe has recorded a case of a i person who was thrown from a horse, and struck ; the front of his chest against the corner of a mile- -i stone. The cartilage of the fifth rib was separated from the bone and driven inwards. (J\Ial~ gaigne, Traitc desFract. vol. ii. p. 397. See also i Alemoire sur les Luxations des Cartilages Coslaiix, . 185-1, par L. Saurcl, and Dublin Quart. Journ. of' Med. Science vol. xix. p. 201, 1855.) The treat- - ment of such a case would be the same as in'; fracture of the rib or of its cartilage. It is, in I'act, , very difficult to determine whether the injury is i really a fracture or a disloaition, since either the • rib or the cartilage may have been broken close to their line of junction. There are examples also recorded in which violent • and sudden movenionts of the body have produced . a separation of the cartilages of the false ribs at their ■ articulations with each others. The separated ribs ■ have then been found depressed below the level of the others. {Malgaiyne, loc. cit. p. 398.) Again, the cartilages of the ribs may be dislo- cated at their sternal articulations. Sir C. Bell ^ records the case of a young man, who while exer- ri cisiiig with dumb bella, suddenly felt something ] give way, and one of the costal cartilages was found j dislocated forwards upon the sternum. It was re- placed by pressure with the fingers, and retained in position by a compress and bandage. Other in-