4D2 ■DIPLOPIA causes of the utter sort are of a spasmodic nature Viz. an imtation affects some muscle of the ^.e m such a manner, that the patient is incapacitated irom monng both ]us eyes'according to^his wUl, and ftom directmg them to any object, so that such object may be at once in the axis of vision of both Un this case, tlio observations of Sir E. Home are in terestmg, who has made various reflections on the effect of an n-regular action of the straight muscles r f^^'-*" ^^'"'^"""g double vision. fraus li97.) Perhaps, however, the cases ad- duced furnish no very conclusive evidence that the diplopia depended merely on the state of the muscles, nidependent of that of the brain. fSee jVackcnzie, On Dis. ofiU Eye, p. 344, ed. 4.) K.chter states, that, in the majoritv of cases the imtation is seated in the gastric organs, though any other species of irritation may operate upon the eyes in a similar manner. This kind of diplopia is frequently attendant on other spasmodic diseases .•i3_ a symptom. It often accompanies hypochon- driasis. Sometimes it is the consequence of violent pain Richter informs us of a man who saw double, and squinted, during a severe headach. ile states, that another was affected in the same way durmg a toothach. Sometimes diplopia is owing to a paralysis of one of the muscles of the eye {Morgagni de Sedilms et Causis Morbormn epist. xm. art. 20. a paralysis of the abductor muscle) • sometimes to a tumor in the orbit. The diagnosis ot this kind of diplopia is free from difficulty the patient having been affected with squinting'ever since things appeared double to him. The views which Sir E. Home took of diplopia from irregular action, spasm, or weakness of any particular muscle of the eye, led him to propose a pUui of treatment, the principle of which is to keep the muscle affected for a time perfectly at rest which is easily done by covering the eye with a bandage, and not allowing the organ to be at all employed. The fourth class of causes are such irritations as act upon the optic nerves, changing their sensibility ill such a way, that objects do not make that sort ol impression upon them which thev ought to do. ihus, things sometimes have the appearance of being coloured, when they are really not so ; im- movable objects seem in motion, straight objects appear oblique, and in the cases which we are now treating of, single things seem to the eye double, treble, &c. This faulty kind of sensibility may also be produced by irritation in eyes which are perfectly sound ; but it is most readily occasioned in eyes which are preternaturally weak and irrita- ble._ In these, very trivial irritations will often excite it. In the treatment, the common indica- tion is to discover and remove whatever irritation conduces to this effect; but the attempt frequently modi a / ^ f 1 \' "'"y ^vith fipns- hc?d\c?rd ? H 'r^' °^ kinds. Severe hcadachs and toothachs are sometimes joined with this aflect.on of the sight, llichter mentions a bo who being ,„ the woods, was strucrby the both of a tree over the eye ; and, in conscqiience of the accment, became affected with diploL He ' forms us of a man who rode a journey on horse: back along a snowy road on a very sunshinv dav and was affected in the same mann^r'tll^afe tion of the eyes is sometimes the effect of iniuries of the head. fSee Hilt, Cn,.,c .. J'^'^'? of the head. (See Hilts Cases eV.X ^ ^ p ToO &chmucker, Med. Chir. Remark, b. i. No "a Hennens MilHary Suryery, p. 345, ed. 2.) In U^ii: >,Januar3' 183/) a woman, under my care, who was admitted on account of a blow on her hS whereby she was stunned. On recovering from this, she became affected with diplopia. At first all objects appeared double, unless one eye were sliut: afterwards, they were seen correctly with both eyes open, if within six or eight inches of these organs. In a still later stage, objects above the horizontal line were seen single ; below it, double except when one eye was shut. ' Persons who have weak eyes are apt to become double-sighted, whenever they look attentively for a long while at any light shining objects. Patients fn n^r, ""'^ cj*'"" sometimes double-sighted. {Crooc/i s Cases, &c. vol. ii.) Diplopia frequently terminates in some other disorder of the eyes, and is often the forerimner of amaurosis. The cure partly depends upon the nature of the remote cause, and partly upon the condition of the eye. Some causes are easy, others difficult, ot removal. ' The treatment consists in endeavouring to find out and remove the irritation occasioning the dis- order. The majority of such irritations are of the same nature as those which give rise to gutta serena._ (See Amaurosis.) Indeed, both the complaints are often only different effects of the same cause, and of course require a similar mode of treatment. The boy, whom Richter mentions as having become double-sighted in consequence of being struck over the eye with the bough of a tree, was cured by the external use of the infusum radicis valerianaj and spiritus vini crocatus, with which the eyelids and adjacent pai-ts were rubbed several times a day. A diplopia which followed a violent fright, was cured by valerian, preceded by a few doses of bitartrate of potash. Tlie case recorded by Dr. Ileuiien, as proceeding from a gunshot wound of the soft parts covering the root of the nose and riglit eyebrow, yielded to abfti- neuce, occasional emetics, and cold collyria. (Principles of Mil. Sun/cry, p. 345, ed. 2.) The m L . r r''[?--^''''^-''^''''^";''''^''"'^^'''"8''' University College Hospita , who had b SUn fhfdt '"Pl^Pi-^ consequence of concussion the bo diminished or removed. Here the grand indi- j brain, was materially benefited by cupping and cation is to cure the weakness imd irritability of the organs. According to Richter, the fourth class of causes ot diplopia 18 the most frequent. The irritations arc ot_ various kinds, and generally seated in tiie abdominal viscera. Diplopia is sometimes the consequence of inebriety, foulness of the stomacii, ■ntennitting fevers, hypochondriasis, worms, wowever, the complaint is occasionally excited bv other sorts of irritation. It has frequently followed purgative medicines, followed up' by' mercuri', and blistering the nape of the neck ; and latterl3-, by the exhibition of the carbonate of iron. A hypochondriacal patient got rid of the disorder by means of the warm bath. A diplopia, supposed t'o arise from disorder of the biliary secretion, was cured by means of pills made of gum g.ilbamim, guaiacuiu, rhubarb, and Venice soap, assisted with emetics and purgatives. When the irritation is only of temporary dura-