234 ANEURISM. the blood through the lower portion of the artery would reproduce the disease, especially if the wound were not recent. Neither, says he, should it consist in merely tying the artery beyond the injury, or in the separate ligature of the vein above it, because these proceedings would expose the patient to the risk of various inflammatory acci- dents, or to a false aneurism, either circumscribed or diffused. But it is better and safer to place the injury of the vessels between two ligatures. By acting in this manner, not only do we hinder the blood from returning through the lower end of the artery and reproducing the disease, but we prevent the venous blood from passing into the artery, and thereby avert the stupor which the passage of this black blood into the tissues always creates ; a stupor the more considerable, and the more readily followed by grangrene, inasmuch as the red blood enters the organised textures in less quantit}', and with increased difficulty. (See Breschet, in Mem. sm- Diff&rentes Espices d'Aneu- ri/sines, p. 153.) If the artery be tied both above and below the communication with the vein, the exchange of blood between the two vessels will be effectually stopped: the proposal once made by Dupuytren, to include the vein in the ligatures along with the artery, must therefore be unne- cessary, and, as likely to cause phlebitis, it should not be adopted. Indeed, Dupuytren himself never tried the plan on the living subject. (See Mal- gaiyue, Mcmuel, i^c. p. 195.) As for the mode of operating different writers give different ad- vice. Thus, according to Scarpa, when the aneurism is joined with an aneurismal varix, and circumscribed, but the circumstances such as to require the brachial artery to be tied, this vessel should be exposed, and tied above the swelling with a single ligature. It is only when the aneu- rism is diffused that opening the swelling and ap- plying a ligature both above and below the aperture in the artery, are deemed by him necessary. On the otlier hand, Mr. Guthrie directs "an incision at the part, and the application of two ligatures to the artery, for although in some cases one has been found sufficient, in others the blood has re- turned into the sac by the anastomosing branches, and a second operation has been required to effect a cure." (See Guthrie, On Dis. of Arlerios, p. 334.) M. Lisfranc prefers opening the sac, and applying two ligatures. "Perhaps," says he, "in examples where a sac intervenes between the dilatation of the vein and the injury of the artery, it might be prudent to open the aneurismal pouch without meddling with the vein ; a method that would create less risk of phlebitis, which sometimes arises as a complication of the operation." {Da I'Obli- tarulion dcs A rlci-cs dans los* Anetirysmes, p. 112, 8vo. Paris, 1834.) In three subjects, in whom the bracliial artery was tied, the tumor reappeared (Dupui/lran, Breschet); and in two others, in wiiom the femoral artery was tied, death ensued from sloughing and hemorrliages. M. Jules Cloquct relates a case where tlie ligature of tiie artery above the communication with tiie vein was fol- lowed by a return of the pulsation in the tumor, atropliy of the limb, a lived discoloration of the fingers, and detachment of tlio nails, and am))u- tntion was performed. {Pathol. 6%«-. p. 05, 4to. Paris, 1831.) Hence Dupuytren, Breschet, and Malgaigne are of opinion, that tlie Iluuterian me- thod, with a single ligature above the tumor. should be abandoned. (See Manuel de Med. Opcr. p. 195. 12mo. Paris, 1834 ; W. Hunter, in Med. Ohs. and Inq. vol. v. ; Scarpa on Aneurism, p. 433, ed. 2 ; also Guattani, De Cubiiijlejmrw aneurysmatilms, in Lauth's Coll. Scriptorum, ^-c. ; P. Adelmann, Trad. Anal. Chir. de A7ieurismale spuria varicoso. Wirceb. 1824 ; Dupuylrcu, liipert. Gin. d^Anat. el de Fhysioloyie, i^-c. t. viii. p. 104. 1829, and Clin. t. i. p. 275, &c. ; Larrey, in Man. de Chir. Mil. t. iv., and in Clin. Chir. t. iii.; G. Breschet, De I'Aneurysme par Transfusion, in Mem. Chir. sur Differentes Espcces d'Aneurysmcs, 4to. Paris, 1834.) Aneurism by An.astomosis Is the term which M]'. John Bell applied to a species of aneurism, resembling some of the bloody tumors (piCBvi maiorni) which appear in new- born children, grow to a large size, and ultimately bursting, emit a considerable quantity of blood. Imperfect descriptions of this disease may be traced in writers ; though, before the publication of Mr. John Bell's Principles of Surgery, it was not classed with aneurisms. Thus, Desault has re- corded a case of this affection, for the express purpose of proving that pulsation is an uncertain sign of the existence of an aneurism. (See Pari- sian Chir. Journal, vol, ii. p. 73.) Aneurism by anastomosis often increases from an appearance like that of a mere speck, or mo- ther's mark, to a formidable disease. The tumor is a congeries of active vessels ; and, according to Mr. John Bell, the areolar tissue, through which these vessels are expanded, resembles the gills of a turkejr-cock, or the substance of the pla- centa, spleen, or womb. The irritated and inces- sant action of the arteries fills the cells with blood, and from these cells it is reabsorbed by the veins. The size of the swelling is increased by exercise, drinking, emotions of the mind, and by all causes which accelerate circulation. Aneurism by anastomosis is compared by Du- puytren to certain erectile tissues, whicii naturally appertain to the organisation of the animal body. In this point, there is an agreement between him and John Bell. " A textiu-e of this kind," says Baron Dupuytren, "is met witii in the genital organs of many animals of both sexes, and parti- cularly in the urethra, the corpora cavernosa, and the glans penis ; on the heads and necks of many birds ; on the buttocks of several species of ape ; and on parts of the bodies of many other animals. This erectile tissue was regarded by Dupuytren as the model and type of several accidental tissues, which, in consequence of defects of organisation, either original or acquired, may be developed in almost any part of the human body, where they produce tumors, which frequently attain u con- siderable size. Such growths all exhibit the same vascularity and organisation, the same investment, and the same fibrous interlacement, as tlio natural erectile tissues do ; but tiieir investment is weaker, and the quantity of nerves in them is less. The skin and subcutaneous areolar tissue are particu- larly often the scats of tumors of this character, which, however, are sometimes met with in almost every part. In particular, they present themselves on tlie face ami the integuments of the cranium ; and they form tlie basis of those coiigenitjil marks iiiul swellings, which receive the name of nrevi. Sometimes they invade the whole of an organ.