their median line with the bone-forcep3 of Listen Both operations liad good success. Langenbeck, in 1853, in a case of a medullary carcinoma, removed botii upper jaw-bones, except- ing only the orbital plate of the left one. The bones were separated by means of a metacarpal saw, a bone-forceps and a chisel. Tlie following are the methods hitherto adopted to expose tiie diseased parts where removal of both upper jaws is to be accomplished. (Oscar HeyJ'elder, op. cit.) The median incision, followed by Dieffenbach and Maiaonneuve, commences from tlie root of the nose, and ends in the middle of the upper lip. If necessary, a second incision, from the beginning of tlie first to the inner corners of both eyes, must be added. In this way we obtain two lateral flaps, which are pared closely from the bones, and held on either side with blunt hooks. By this proceed- ing the fewest vessels, nerves and muscles are cut, and the cicatrix produces but little deformity, although it affords room enough to perform the operation. The posterior lateral incision or cheek incision, employed by J. F. Heyfelder in his three cases, begins on each side from the outer corners of the eyes, and finishes at the angles of the mouth ; or, to avoid the ductus Stenonianus in the upper lip, some lines within the corner. By this incision, a large flap is obtained with the base above. This gives more room than any other of the simple methods, but it has the disadvantage of e.xposing the facial nerves, the principal vessels of the cheek, the ductus Stenonianus, and a great number of muscles to the knife. The anterior lateral method would consist in two incisions beginning at the inner corner of the eye, and descending near the wing of the nose, to the upper lip. Hitherto it has not been practised upon the living, except on one side. But from my ex- periments on the dead body, it would appear to be well adapted for both sides. This and the former methods may be usefully combined on the different sides. In the rare case that these simple proceedings would not suffice to denude excessively enlarged bones, the complicated method must be employed on one or both sides ; it was practised by Mal- gaigne, Syme, Jaeger, Lisfranc, Blandin, Fergus- son and others, for the resection of one upper jaw- bone. Instead of the crucial and flap incisions, which always expose thesoft parts a grcatdeal, and produce much deformity, J. F. Heyfelder proposes for those cases where the simple metliods do not sufiice, the followmg proceeding:—" One incision slits the un- der hp m the middle and proceeds to the chin ; from thence a second and third incision extend the-Tiselves on both sides along the under edge of the raandibule and the hind edge of the ramus as- cendens. By this method the nerves and Steno's duct are preserved, and the cicatrix falls where it may be easily concealed—in men by a beard, in women by a handkerchief. " The soft parts being cut through, they are pared from the bones, preserving, if possible, the perios- teum on that side, and the flaps thus formed are held back by an assistant." The separation of the bones are to be effected by the aid of saws and bone-knippers, in the same way as where one upper jaw-bone is to be removed. BONES, EXCISION OF. 349 The central attachment of the superior maxillary bones to the nasal and frontal bones 'may be executed by one act, as recommended by Maison- neuve. " Of nine cases that were thus operated on, four died ; in one case the final result is unknown ; in four it was successful. One of the patients seems to have succumbed to the operation, that is to say the first operated on by Maisonneuvo ; one died from an apoplectic seizure—that was the man operated on by Dieffenbach ; two (No. 1 and 2 of those operated on by Heyfelder) succumbed to a relapse of cancer, but one not until fifteen the other twenty-three months after the operation.'' /. F. Heyfelder, Klinischer Bericht von, 1853-44, m Walthers und Von Ammon's Journal, B. iv. Heft 4, 1844. Idem. Ueber die Resektion beider Oberkiefs, Stuttgart, 1850. Idem. Klinischer Bericht von, 1851-52. Deutsche Klinik, 1852. Idem. Amputa- tionem und Resectionen. Breslau, 1854. Reid, Die Resektioiieu der Knoclien, 1847. Dieff'enbac/c, Oper- ative Chirurgie, 1848. Maisonneiwe,'Gnz. des H6p 1850, Nos. 97, 100, and 310. Oscar Heyfelder, Klinis- cher Bericht von, 1849-50, in der Prajr. Vierteljahr- schrilt, Bd.xxi. Idem. Artikel Resectionen in Pi osch Handwoiterbuch. Leipsic, 1854. Malgaigne, Revue Medico-Chir. tome xiil. Jihigken, Deutsche Klinik 1 8dO, p. 48. Langenbeck, Deutsche Klinik, 1853, p! Excision op the Inferior Maxillary Bone. The practicability of this operation was lono- ago evident enough from cases in which the greater part of the bone had been torn away by gun-shot injuries, or where it had exfoliated from necrosis. Boyer relates an instance in which it was torn away by machinery, and Wepfer quotes a case where it was amputated in his time. Mr. Anthony White, Surgeon to the Westminster Hosnital removed at Cambridge, a considerable portion ot the bone for an osteo-sarcoma many years ago. Unfortunately, the case was not published • so that the revival and execution of the oper- ation are generally referred to Dupuytren, who, in 1812 performed his earliest excision of the body of the lower jaw-bone. The parts re- moved weighed a pound and a half; the bone was affected with exostosis, caries, and necrosis, soitened in several places, and combined with a hard fibrous fungus. The patient recovered and was in perfect health twenty-one years after the operation. {Dupuytren, Cliniqua Chir. t. iv. p C''8 ) Subsequently to the year 1812, the operatioa has been Irequcntly repeated by Dupuytren Dr Mott, Kicherand, Lallemand, Delpech, Roux' Cusack, Martin, Genly, Magcndie, Cloquet! Warilrop, Lislranc, Warren, GcnsouL Grafo Walther, Wagner llandolpli. Listen, L'awren e! Bh. Cramptoii, Velpoau, &c. By M'Clellin Walter, and (Jra;fe, nearly the whole of the bono has been taken away. By many other operators disarticulation has been perforiued at one ^ t 10 condyles. ^ (See Cusack, in TMdin Hospital Re- porls yol .y. p. 13 ; Listen's Elcni. pa/t ii [Mr South has taken great pains^o f x the dates at which the several operations for removal IJtad itk of Uogerville, Tennessee," he writes was the first who, in 1 810, cut away the do „^ he lower jaw; in 1812 Dupuytren sawed off a laige portion of the front of the jaw • in Ifilr; Anthony White removed half a necrosed wfVom he socket; „i 1818, Sir Astley Cooper slwcd off the projecting part of the chin j in 1821, Grtdb