GANGRENE.' 1009 HOSPITAL " When the formation of the slough has been interrupted, the stinging sensation becomes more frequent and acute; phageda:nic ulceration quickly commences; and such is frequently the rapidity of its progress, tliat even in the course of a few hours a very considerable excavation will be formed, while the parts in the vicinity retain their usual healthy appearance." The cavity, the edges of which are well defined, is filled with a thick glu- tinous matter, which adheres strongly to the sub- jacent parts. When this matter is removed, the surface underneath presents itself of a fine granu- lar texture, which, in almost all instances, is pos- sessed of extreme sensibility, and is very apt to bleed, when the operation of cleaning is not per- formed with great delicacy. At each dressing the circumference of the cavity is found enlarged, and if there are more than one, they generally run into each other. The slinging pain gradually becomes of a darting or lancinating kind ; and either about the fourth, or sixth day, from the time when tlie mor- bific matter had access io the sore, or afterwards, at the period of what may be termed secondary ivflam- mation, the lymphatic vessels and glands are apt to become afftcted. " The soft parts, in the immediate vicinity of the sore, daily become more painful, tumefied, and indurated; and, in a great number of cases, particularly in those of plethoric and irritable habits, an attack of acute inflammation speedily supervenes, and is accompanied by a great in- crease of pain, the sensation being described to be such as if the sore were burning. The period at which this inflammation begins to subside is by no means regular. Sometimes it subsides in the course of two days, and sometimes it con- tinues upwards of five ; depending very much on the constitution and previous habits of the patient, as well as the treatment that has been adopted. During its progress, the thick, putrid- looking, and frequently spongy slough which is formed oh the sore, becomes more and more moist, and of a ptdpy consistence. (Hence this form of disease is actually named by Gerson, pulpy gangrene?) In the course of a few days, a very ofiinsive matter begins to be discharged at its edges. The slough then begins to separate; by and by, it is thrown off"; but only to prepare the way for an extension of the disease by a continued process of ulceration, and by a recurrence of the last-mentioned symptoms." {Blackadder, On Pha- gedcBna Gangrcenosa, p. 28—30.) According to other observers, the first symp- toms which indicate hospital gangrene in a wound, or ulcer, are, a more or less acute pain, and a viscid whitish exudation on the surface of the granulations, which lose their vermilion colour, and present at several points, spots of a greyish or dirty-white hue, resembling vene- real ulcers, or aphtha;. These ulcerated points, thus engrafted (as it were) upon the original ulcer, soon spread, and join together, so as to give to the whole surface of the solution of continuity a grey ash- colour. The surface also becomes more or less indurated, and sometimes bleeds. A red, purplish oedematous circle of a greater, or lesser extent, is next formed in the surrounding skin. Sometimes, when the patient is of a good habit, the causes of infection less active, and the constitution sufficiently strong, the disorder now stops. According to Boyer, it may not even extend to the whole surface of the ulcer. But most frequently its progress is ex- tremely rapid, and occasionally quite terrifying. The edges of the wound, or ulcer, become hardened, and everted; the granulations are large and tumid, being svvelled up, as Boyer asserts, with a con- siderable quantity of gas. They are afterwards detached in the form of soft reddish sloughs, which very much resemble the substance of the foetal brain in a putrid state. From day to day, until nature, either alone, or aided by art, puts limits to the disorder, it invades new parts, both in breadth and depth, so that its ravages extend to aponeuroses, muscles, blood-vessels, nerves, tendons, the perio- steum, and even the bones themselves. Amongst a number of severe cases which fell under the notice of Mr. Blackadder, " there was one in which the half of the cranium was de- nuded, the bones having become black as char- coal, and the integuments detached posteriorly to the second cervical vertebra, and anteriorly, to the middle of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone ; and this was originally a superficial wound of the scalp. In another case, the muscles, large arteries, and nerves of both thighs were exposed and dissected, the integuments and cellular sub- stance being entirely removed, with the exception of only a narrow strip of the former, which re- mained on the outer side of the thighs. This was also originally a simple flesh wound. In other instances, the cavities of the knee, ankle, elbow, and wrist joints were laid extensively open, and, in one unfortunate case, the integuments and cel- lular substance, on the anterior parts of the neck, were destroyed, exhibiting a horrid spectacle, the trachea being also wounded." (0?i Phagedcena Gangrtjenosa, p. 3.) He notices, that when the morbific matter is in- serted in a puncture, or scratch, the first progress of the disease bears a resemblance to that of a part inoculated with vaccine matter. The primary in- flammation in gangrenous phagedaena commences at the end of the second, or early on the third day. When the disease attacks a recent gunshot- wound, the discharge, two or three days after in- fection, is found to be lessened, and to have become more of a sanious than purulent nature. The sore has a certain dry and rigid appearance; its edges are more defined, somewhat elevated, and sharpened; the patient is sensible of a change in the usual sensation in the sore, and complains of an occasional stinging sensation, resembling that produced by the sting of a gnat. At this period, but sometimes a day or two later, the integuments at the edge of the sore become inflamed, and the surface of the sore itself assumes a livid or purple colour, and appeiirs as if covered with a fine pellicle, such as is formed on a coagulum of blood. {On Plmgedmna Gangrainosa, p. 33.) The surrounding integuments become indurated and inflamed, assuming, not unfrequently, an an- serine appearance; and the patient complains of a constant burning, lancinating pain. In the vicinity of the Borc, the integuments become more and more of a dark-red colour, in consequence of the violence of the inflammation, which is of an erysi- pelatous nature, and apt to terminate in sloughing, and carry off the patient. However, the inllam- matory symptoms are sometimes mild, and, in other cases, exceedingly violent: a fact accounted for by diff'erences of constitution. (Blackadder, p. 34.) At Bilboa, the disease, in cases of wound, is 3 T