61 AMPUTATION, owing to the nature of the disease, or cannot be altered without extreme agonv. About the middle of the llith century, arose the celebrated controversy about the propriety of amputation in general. Several surgeons now began to be convinced, with Le Dran and Bagieu, that the operation was undertaken on too light grounds ; and, in particular, that many bad compli- cated fractures might be cured without amputation. Such was the doctrine of Boucher (Mem. de I'Acad. de Ckir. t. ii. p. 304 ), Gervaise (Anfarigsgr. der Wiiudarzn. 8vo. Strasb. 1755), and Faure (Mtm. qui oni concoitru pour le Prix de I'Acad. de Chir. vol. i. p. 100). The latter, especially, urged the prudence of delay in gunshot wounds and comminuted injuries of the bones. But the writer who at this time made the greatest noise in the world, by his general condemnation of amputation, was Bilguer {Diss, de JMembrorum Amputatione, 8vo. Hal. 1761), whose sentiments received, how- ever, a complete refutation from his own contem- poraries, Pott {Chir. Works, vol. ii.), Morand {Opusc. de Chir. t. i. p. 232), and De la Martinere (Mem. de VAcad. de Chir. vol. iv. p. ].), and also from later writers, to whom reference will be made ill speaking of Gunshot Wounds. Even Bilguer himself was compelled to admit the necessity of amputation in cases of gangrene. (Anweis. fur die FeldiDund'drze.n, s. 170.) Bilguer's colleague, the celebrated Schmucker, inclined to the same doctrines, and has detailed several cases, where limbs were not only shattered, but actually carried away by balls, yet where a cure followed without amputation. One of his ma-tims was, that it was better for tlie member to be taken off by gunshot than by the surgeon's knife, as the ball operated on a healthy subject, the knife on a person debilitated by an hospital. {Chir. Wahrn. th. ii. s. 493.) In a later valu- able essay on this subject, he restricts amputation to shattered limbs affected with gangrene. His mode of operating was that of M. Louis. He sanc- tioned joint-operations at the hip and shoulder ; but condemned those of the knee and elbow, as never answering. ( Verm. Schrifl. th. i. s. 3.) Soon after the middle of the last century, the practice of amputating at the joints began to excite increased attention ; but, as this is a topic to which I must presently return, it is unnecessary now to dwell upon it. The writings of Puthod, Wohler, Brasdor, Barbet, Sabatier, Park, Morcau, and Vermandois, in relation to this subject, deserve particular notice. I now come to Mr. Alanson, whose name is as cons[iicuou3 in the history of amputation as that of any surgeon yet mentioned. His chief objects were to hinder a protrusion of the bone, and pro- mote union by the first intention. He rejected the band, wliich was formerly put round the limb for the guidance of the knife, as altogether useless, and an impediment to the quick performance of the circular incision through the skin. When the tourniquet had been applied, an assistant grasped the integuments with both hands, and drew them and the muscles firmly upwards. The operator then fixed his eye upon the proper part where he •was to begin the incision, which was made with considerable facility and dispatch, the knife passing with greater quickness iu consequence of the tense Btate of the integuments. After the incision throiigli the skin had been made, the assistant still continued a steady support of the parts, while Mr. Alanson separated the cel- lular and ligamentous attachments with the point of his knife, till as much skin had been drawn up as would, with the muscles, divided in the par- ticular way hereafter recommended, fully cover the whole surface of the wound, Then, instead of applying the knife close to the edge of the in- teguments, and dividing the muscles in a circular perpendicular manner down to the bone, Mr. Alanson proceeded as follows:—When operating upon the thigh, and standing on the outside of the limb, he applied the edge of his knife under the edge of the supported integuments, upon the inner margin of the vastus internus muscle, and cut ob- liquely through that and the adjacent muscles, up- wards as to the limb and down to the bone, so as to lay it bare about three or four finger-breadths higher than is usually done by the common per- pendicular circular incision. He now drew the knife towards himself ; then keeping its point upon the bone, and the edge in the same oblique line already pointed out for the former incision, he divided the rest of the muscles in that direction all round the limb : the point of the knife being in contact with, and revolving round the bone through the whole of the division. According to Mr. Alanson, the speedy execution of the above-directed incision will be much expe- dited by one assistant continuing a firm and steady elevation of the parts, and another taking care to keep the skin from being wounded, as the knife goes through the muscles, at the under part of the limb, Mr. Alanson censures the old method of depriving the bone of its periosteum to a consider- able extent, above and below the part where the saw is to pass, not only as creating unnecessary delay, but since the periosteum serves to support the vessels in their passage to the bone, as apt to produce exfoliations above the part where the boiie is to be divided with the saw. Instead of this practice, he recommends first the application of the retractor, as advised by Gooch and Brom- field ; and then denuding the bone at the part where the saw is to pass, whereby the bone may be sawn oft" higher than is usually practised ; a material object in hindering a projection of the bone, and forming a sm.iU cicatrix. If the flesh of a stump, formed in the thigh, agreeably to the foregoing plan, be gently brought forward after the operation, and the surface of the wound be then viewed, it may be said to resemble in some degree a conical cavity, the apex of which is the extremity of the bono ; and the parts, thus divided, Mr. Alanson thought the best calculated to prevent a sugar-loaf stump. The part where the bone is to be laid bare, whether two, three, or four finger-breadths higher tlian the edge of the retracted integuments ; or, in other words, the quantity of muscular substance to be taken out, m making the double incision ; must be regulated by considering the lengtli of the limb, and the quantity of skin that has been previously saved by dividing the membranous attachments. The quantity of skin saved, and muscular substance taken out, must bo iu such exact proportion to each other, that the whale surface of the wound will afterwards be easily covered, and the limb not more shortened than is necessary to obtain tliis end. After the removal of the limb, Mr. Alanson