not been well applied, and tlieymiist be replaced." {On Gunshot Wounds, p. 204.) _ In two amputations at St. Bartholomew's Hos- pital, I saw the toumiciiiet break after the soft parts had been divided ; and as in one of these cases a good deal of blood was lost, because another toiirniciuet happened not to be in the room, and pressure on the artery "in the groin was not immediately adopted, I coincide with such writers as recommend the rule of always having two tour- niquets ready. Graefe even goes so far as to advise putting both of them round the limb before the operation commences {Nomien fur die Ablosung grosserer GUedmassen, p. 48); but, the frequency oi a tourniquet breaking is not so great,\a3 to de- mand such precaution ; and the plan would be ob- jectionable in thigh amputations, where it is a ma- terial advantage to have plenty of room between the place of the incision and the band which goes round the limb. Provision having been made for the arrest of hemorrhage during the operation, either by the application of a tourniquet, or by compression of the vessel by the hands of a trustworthy assistant • the point next to be considered is the division of the soft parts of the limb. There are two principal methods by which this may be accomplished, by circular incisions, and by the/on«ai!ion of flaps ; but to these may be added modihcations by means of oval and ellipiical inci- sions, which, it will be hereafter seen, combine in some measure the characters of bolli the first-men tioned proceedings. Amputation by Circular Incision. In order to make the first cut, the arm is to be carried under the limb, till the knife reaches almost round to the side on which the operator stands. With one sweep, penetrating at least to the fascia, the knife is then to be brought round to the point where it first touched the skin. Thus, the wound is more likely to be regularly made than by cutting lirst on one side, and then on the other, while the patient is saved some degree of pain, in conse- quence of the uninterrupted quickness with which the incision is made. Whether the fascia and sub- jacent muscular fibres be reached or not, is deemed by Velpeau a matter of no consequence ; the only essential thing being the perfect division of the ' skin. (See Nouv. Eltni. de Med. Oper. t. i n SO!!.) it^'.i. 1. p. The next object is the preservation of as much akin as will afterwards, conjointly with the mus- cles cut in an oblique direction, cover the end of the stump with facility. It is rather difiicult to ay down any other than general principles for the guidance of the surgeon in saving integu- ments. I am disposed to agree with several modern , writers, that the painful dissection of the skin from the muscles has been recommended and prac- ; tised to a very unnecessary extent, — that is to ^ saj', -innwessary, if the division of the muscles be p.trfnrmed in the most advantageous manner ' Instead of dissecting back the skin, Dupuytren used to cut all the soft parts at once to the bone winch he next divided, after retracting the muscles! {Dupuytren, Le^cms Orales, c^c. t. iv p 097 ^ However, Langenbeck, another of the most srdlful •operators on the Continent, prefers detacliinji tlie .nteguments from the fascia for about two finder- breadths {JUL fur die Chir. b. i. p. as is AMPUTATION. Go the common practice in the London Jiospitals. home late writers, particularly Mr. Syme, in ex- pressing their preference to muscle as a covering lor the end of the bono, seem to forget one fact which I have often noticed, viz. that the muscular cushion, though at first thick and good, soon shrinks to a comparatively small mass. Sir Astley Cooper states that the covering for the end of the bone must be integuments and not muscles ; for, if muscular fibres are preserved with the integu- ments, they will contract, and retraction of the skin covering the stump will be the result. {Lancet, vol. i. p. 148.) Brunninghausen also thinks skin a better and more durable covering for the end of the bone than muscular fibres, which after a time dwindle away; and thence he com- putes the quantity of integuments which ought to be saved, by the measure of the circumference and diameter of the member. Thus, when the limb is nine inches in its circumference, the diameter is about three ; therefore, one inch and a half of skin on each side is to be saved. {Erfalir Src uberdieAmp. p. 75.) But this author cuts the muscles perpendiculariy, so that he is obliged to separate much more skin from the flesh than is necessary when the incision through the muscles IS carried obliquely upward. Dr. Hennen and Mr. buthrie both recommend carrying the knife through the fascia in the first circular incision • and so does Mr. C. Hutchison, who makes no' mention of dissecting back the skin, but simply states, that the "integuments and fascia beincr divided by a circular incision, and retracted up°- wards, as high as is judged necessary, the super- ftcial muscles should next be divided," &c {Pract Obs. m Surgeiy, ^. 23, 8vo. Lond. 1816.) We are, therefore, to conclude that he joins Graefe and others in thinking the separation of the skin from the iascia unnecessary. My own observations in practice lead me to believe, that the dissection of the integuments from the subjacent parts used formeriy to be carried to an "extent beyond all moderation and necessity ; and that, as it is a most painful proceeding, and hurtful, by forming a large loose pouch for the lodgment of matter, it ought to be abandoned by every surgeon who follows the method of sawing the bone considerably higher than the first cut through the superficial muscles. Mr. Hey, like Desmh ((Euvres Chir. t. x.vi. p 545), 13 an advocate for amputating with a triple incision, and for preserving such a quantity of muscular flesh and integuments as are proportion- ate to the diameter of the limb. By a trinlo incision, he means first an incision through the integuments alone ; secondly, an incision through all the muscles made somewhat higher than tluit through the integuments ; aM thirdly, anot ei- incision through that part of the muscular fl sh which adheres to the bone, made round that po ' the bone where the saw is to be applied. Ti e proper distance of these incisions from each oth 1 says, must be determined by the tliicknes f form d ''r'' ""^ "P-^^"""" P'^'- 0 med, makmg allowance for the retraction of the which are not rence ol the limb to be twelve inches where the tone IS to be divided, the diameter is about four ii'clies ; and, if no retraction of the integuments were to take place, a sufficient covering of the stump would bo aflbrded by making the first in- F