HAEMORRHAGE fluid without mixture with cnagiila, and no inflam- matory symptoms be present, tiie case may be treated successfully by evacuation of the fluid, and by injection, as in hydrocele. Should coagula be present, so as to prevent evacuation by tapping, or should inflammation set in, threatening suppuration, the appropriate remedy will be free incision into the tunica vaginalis. When false membranes have .formed, thickening the serous membrane to a slight extent only, provided the contents of the sac can be evacuated, injection after tapping will some- times effect a cure. But when the serous mem- brane is so far thickened that it cannot collapso after being emptied, or when its contents are too solid to admit of escape by the trocar, then incision and removal of all the adventitious structures, leaving if possible the original membrane, will be necessary; and lastl3% when this cannot be effected with safety to the testis and epididymis on account of their being too seriously implicated in the disease, castration must be had recourse to.] CelsHs and Paulus Mgineta are the best of the old ynters on hffitnatocele. For modern information, consult PoWs Chir. Works, vol. ii. B. Bell, On Hy' drocele. Flajani, CoUezione d'Osservazioni, &c. t II. RicMer, Anfan^s^r. der VVundarzn. b. vi. Osian- aer, in Arnemann's Map:azin fur die Wundarzn. b. 1. p. 355 : the patient died alter an opening had been made in the swelling-. Follet, in Journf de M^d. continue, vol. xiii. p. 422: Harns, in Mem. of Lon. Med. Society, vol. v. Sir B. Brodie, in Lend. Med. Gaz. for 1831-32, p. 926. Sir A. Cooper, in Ol.s. on the Structure and Dis. of the Testicles, p. 209, 4to. Lond. 1830. [Naaton, Elfemens de Pathol. Cliirurff o ^;,P"r5^*- , On Diseases of the Testis. South's Translation of Chelius.] H^-MATURIA. (Sea Urine.) [HjEMITIS. a term applied hjPiorry to sig- nify Inflamed Blood. The Croupy Crasis {Rofci- tanshj) ; Bitfy Blood, Ebullition, Commolion, In- flammation, of the blood {Galen, Boerhaave, Sydenham, and the physicians and surgeons gene- rally before the time of CuUen); Hypei •inosis (F, Simon). Fever, small-pox, plague, and many other dis- eases were attributed by many of the most eminent of the humoral pathologists to an inflammation of the blood. This opinion was founded, in a great measure, on the occurrence of the buffy coat, and the resemblance which blood drawn in these dis- eases often bears to the blood in active inflamma- tion, as pleurisy, and in rheumatism. {Sydenham, Op. c. ii. s. ii. iii.) Sydenham considered that wine inflamed the blood. (Op. c. iv.) These ob- servers were guided by the increased temperature, bright colour, and other physical appearances. Sur- geons of the present day have the advantage of more accurate anatomical details, and also of che- mical researches, the result of which has been to confirm the idea of an inflammation of the blood. Even with those who adopt "exudation," as part of the definition of "inflammation," the blood need not be excluded, since the cellular structure of the corpuscles implies nutrition and secretion, and the probability of pathological exudations. An in- flamed state of the blood being generally attended with an increase of fibrin, and some objections ex- isting to the term hremitis, we have preferred treating of the surgical importance of this morbid condition under another head. (See IIyperi- HEMORRHAGE (from a^ua, blood, and lo^sToCu This 13 doubtless one of the most important sub- jects in surgery. The fear of hiemorrhage retarded the improvement of our profession for ages- the ancients, ignorant how to stop bleeding 'were afraid to cut out the most trivial tumor, or they did so with terror. They generally performed slowly and imperfectly, by means of burning irons or ligatures, the same operations which the moderns execute quickly and safely with a knife. If the old surgeons ventured to aniputite a limb, they only did so after it had mortified, by dividing the dead parts; and so great was their apprehension of hajmorrhage, that they only dared to cut parts which could no longer bleed. (John Bell's Principles of Surgery, vol. i. p. 142.) But not only as a conse- quence of surgical operations, is hajmorrhage to be feared; it is also one of the most alarming accidents which the surgeon is called upon to relieve. "Z/ra sentiment naturel attaclie a. I'idee de perdre son sang, une terreur macMnale, dont Venfant qui commence h parler, et Vhomme le plus decide, sont egalement susceptibles. On ne pent point dire que cette peur soit chimerique. Si I'on comptoit ceux qui perdent la vie dans une halaille, on verroit, que les irois quarts ont peri par quelque hemorrhagie; et dans les grandes operations de cMrurgie cet accident est presque toujours le plus formidable." {Morand, Mem. de I'Acad, de Chir. vol. v. 8vo.) As the blood circulates in the arteries with much greater impetus and rapidity than in the veins, it necessarily follows that their wounds are generally attended with more profuse hemorrhage than those of the latter vessels, and that such haemorrhage is more difficult to suppress. How- ever, as the blood also flows through veins of great magnitude with much velocitj-, bleeding from them, if they lie deeply, is frequently highly dangerous, and sometimes unavoidably fatal. When a large artery is wounded, the blood is of a bright scarlet colour, and gushes from the vessel per salt urn ; but, if the artery be of inferior size, the blood, which first spouts from it, does not issue per saltum; and it is not until the first gush has subsided, that the stream takes place in jets. (See J. W. Earle, in Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xvi. p. 9.) The blood issues from a vein in an even unbroken stream, and is of a dark purple red colour. It is of great practical use to remember these distinguishing dif- ferences between arterial and venous hajinorrhage, because, though in both cases the oozing of blood may be equal in quantitj-, yet, in the latter instance, the surgeon is often justified in bringing the sides' of a wound together, without taking further means to suppress the bleeding, while it might not be proper to adopt the same conduct, were there an equal discharge of arterial blood. Dr. Jones has favoured the world with a match- less work on the present subject; and as one grand object of this Dictionary is to present a careful account of the principal improvements in surgical science, I shall first endeavour to make the reader acquainted with the more accurate doctrines first promulgated by this gentleman relative to the subject of hemorrhage. Afterwards, the surpicnl means to be practised in different cases will be considered. The walls of the arteries are divisible into throe coats. The internal one is extremely thin, and transparent and smooth. [It is lined by a delicate tesselatod epithelium, which gives it somewhat the appearance and character of a serous mem-