ANEURISM, avo only a narrow communication with the u terial tube, or which are filled with laminated i;igula, the idea, says he, is quite inadmissible : ilio aneurism is rather shaken, as it were, like "tlier different swollinga in the vicinity of an nr- ; ry, by the stroke of the heart occasioning a .retching of the wiiole arterial system, and at the line time communicating an impulse to the column blood. (Kre.i/siff, Germ. Tr. of Mr. Hoilysori's lloJ-A-, p. 143.) Here I am by no means disposed ti> coincide with this distinguished physician, whose • ntiments appear to me to be refuted by the fact, 'lat whenever any change happens calculated to lessen, or entirely stop the influx of blood into the ?ac, the pulsation either diminishes, or ceases in proportion. Thus, when Kreysig adverted to the pulsation of aneurisms, in which much coagulated blood was deposited, he might at the same time have mentioned the effect which such deposition has in weakening the pulsation, the layers of coa- gulated blood, within the tumor, being in the natural mode of cure, ^' the means by which the force of the circulation is removed from the sac, and the fatal termination of the disease by rupture is prevented." (See Hodgson, On Diseases of the Art. and Veins, p. 126.) In proportion as the aneurismal sac grows larger, the passage of blood into the artery beyond the tumor is lessened. Hence, in this state, the pulse, below the swell- ing, becomes weak and small, and the limb frequently cold and cedematous. On dissection, the lower continuation of the artery is found preternaturally small and contracted. The pres- sure of the tumor on the adjacent parts may also produce a variety of symptoms,—ulcer- ation, absorption of bone, &c. Sometimes (says Richter) an accidental contusion, or concussion, may detach a piece of coagulum from the inner surface of the cyst, and the circulation through the sac be obstructed by it: nay, he asserts, that the coagulum may possibly be impelled quite into the artery below, so as to induce important changes. The danger of an aneurism arrives when it is on the point of bursting, by which occurrence the patient usually bleeds to death, and this sometimes in a few seconds. In an external aneurism, the fatal event may generally be foreseen, as the part about to give way becomes particularly tense, elevated, thin, soft, and of a dark purple colour. (See RieJiler's An/an/sf/r, band, i.) External aneurisms do not burst by ulceration, but by the formation and detachment of a slough. I believe this is a fact which was first particularly pointed out in the early editions of my work; and it gives me pleasure to find, that it is a statement which entirely coincides with that subsequently made by several writers of eminence, especially Mr. A. Burns (On Diseuses of the Heart, p. 225), and Boycr {Traitii dea Maladies C/iirtirgicaks, t. ii. p. 98). As far as my information extends, Mr. A. lUirns fiist explained tho verj' dilferent mode of rupture whicli happens in internal aneurisms ; these, he observed, generally burst by actual lace- ration, and not by sphacelation of the cyst. (On Diseases of the Heart, p. 22,').) lUit a still more particular account of the process by whicli e.x- ternal and internal aneurisms burst is delivered by Mr. Hodgson. When the sac points cxtor- naliy (says this gentleman), it rarely or never bursts by Jaceration, but the extreme distention 143 causes tho integuments and investing parts to slough ; and upon the separation of the eschar, the blood issues from the tumor. A similar process takes place, when the disease extends into a cavity Avhich is lined by a mucous membrane as the ffisophagus, intestines, bladder, &c. In such cases, tho cavity of the aneurism is generally exposed by the separation of a slough, which has formed upon its most distended part, and not by laceration. But when the sac projects into a cavity lined by a serous membrane, as the pleura, the peritoneum, the pericardium, &c., sloughing of these membranes does not take place ; but the parietes of the tumor having become extremely thin in consequence of distention, at length burst by a crack, or fissure, through which the blood is discharged. {On the Diseases of Arteries, 4-c. p. 85.) An aneurism, however, which biu'st into the oesophagus, and which I had an opportunity of examining after the patient's death, was found to have done so by an ulcerative process. The mucous membrane of the trachea is also sometimes perforated by ulceration, the commencement of which is delineated in Cruveilhier's plates. (See Anat. Pathol, livr. iii. pi. 3 et 4.) When the aneurism is of considerable size, the collateral arteries, which originate above the swelling, are manifestly enlarged. This enlarge- ment of the collateral arteries above the disease ensures to the limb below the tumor an adequate supply of blood, when the obstruction to its passage through the diseased artery becomes considerable or when this vessel has been rendered totally im^ pervious by a surgical operation performed for tlie cure of the complaint. In the advanced stage of an aneurism, the skm is found extremely thin, and confounded, as it were, with the aneurismal sac. The cavities of the cellular substance near- the disease are either filled with serum, or totally obliterated by adhesion. The adjacent muscles, whether they lie oyer the aneurism, or to one side of it, are stretched, displaced, dwindled, and sometimes confounded with other parts. It is the same with the large nervous cords situated at the circum- ference of the tumor: they are pushed out of their natural situation, diminished in size, some- times adherent to the outside of the sac, and so changed as scarcely to admit of being known again. Lastly, the cartilages and the bones them- selves are not exempt from the mischief which the aneurismal swelling produces in all the sur- rounding parts; they are gradually destroyed" and, at length, not the least Ijrace of their sub- stance remains, just in the same way as the bones of the cranium are destroyed by fungous tumors of the dura mater. (See Duka M,vtkr.) Even the cartilages of the laryn.v, and rings of the trachea, are sometimes destroyed ; this tube is p.orcod, and the blood escapes into it, or tl e aneurism bursts into the ccsophagus. (lioJr fraitc des Maladies Chir. t. ii. n 99 . C' fC l Med^ Chir. Trans, vol. xvi. p. 39!), &c.)" ^ aI shall hereafter explain, however, the pivssure of an aneurismal tumor more .[uickly produces an absorption of bone than of cartilagl. Ai'm-is,;; of the arch of tho aorta, or of the subclavian nrterv ((.utiirw. Oh Diseases of Arteries, p. aome- times occasions a dislocation of the sternal' end of tlie clavicle. While an aneurism is small mid recent, it does