1022 HYDATIDS, vegetable acids as local applications: such as two and a half drachms of citric acid dissolved in an ounce of water, and applied by means of compresses. M. Aubry recommends dressings with watery infusion of opium; washing the wound with vinegar, and forcibly detaching all filmy ash-coloured exuda- tion; then covering it with powdered bark or charcoal containing powdered camphor, or powdered camphor only, or lotions of the oxygenated muriatic acid, with which the wound should not only be washed, but the pledgets be saturated. He saw the disease at Prague, where he was prisoner of war in 1814, at Rome in 1812; and when in charge of sick, proceeding by sea from Spalatro to Zara in 1807, it affected ten wounded persons on board after fourteen days; all had embarked without a trace of it. In one case, in which a surgeon at Prague wounded himself with an infected bistoury, four days elapsed before the wound was infected. The American surgeons in the Russian service, at the time of the siege of Sebastopol, found creo- sote to be a most useful application; as efficacious as nitric acid, and not so painful. {Americaji Journ. Med. Sc. April, I860, p. 570.) In conclusion, the reader is referred to the article Erysipelas, which is a cognate disease, and the remarks on the origin, nature, prevention, and treatment of which, may be applied muialis mutandis, to hospital gangrene. Here let us say, in three words, that the origin of the disease always points out defects in ventilation, cleanliness, and management, which must be removed at once; that the destruction and deodorisation of the di- seased surface must be effected by one or more of the numerous list of chemical substances,—cautery, mineral acids, or creosote, besides the liquids of Condy and Burnett; and that bark and nitric acid, tincture of steel, wine, opium, and nourishment appear the best general remedies, with the addition of aperients, if symptoms require their use.] R. Druitt, Pouteau, CEuvres Postliumes, t. iii. published 1783. Dussassoy, Dissertation et Observations sur la Gan- grene des Hdpitaux, &c. 8vo. Genfeve, 1788. Moreau et Burdin, Essai sur la Gang:rfene Humide des H6pi- taux, 1796. Observations on tlie Putrid Ulcer, by L. Gillespie, in London Medical Journal, vol. vi. 1785. RoUo, On Diabetes, 1797. Sir Gilbert Blane, On the Diseases of Seamen, ed. 3, 1797. Trotter's Medicina Nautica, vols. ii. and iii. published 1799. .Tolm Bell's Principles of Surgery, vol. i. 1801. Wolf Ploucguet, De GangrEena sic dicta Nosocomiorum. Tub. 1802. Leslie, De Gangraena Contagiosa, Edin. 1804. John- son, De Gangrsena Contagiosa Nosocomial!, Edin. 1805. J. Thomson's Lectures on Inflammation, p. 456. et seq. Edin. 1813 ; and Report of Obs. made in the Military Hospitals of Belgium, 8vo. Edin. 1816. J. Hennen, Principles of Military Surgei-y, p. 210, &c. 8vo. Edin. 1820. C. J. M. Langenbeck, Neue Bibl. 2. b. p. 611, &c. Hanover, 1820. Mdm. sur la Complication des Plaies et des Ulcferes connue sous le Nom de Pourriture d'HOpital, par .T. Delpech, 8vo. Paris, 1815. Also, Precis EMmentaire des Maladies Chir. t. i. p. 123, &c. Paris, 1816. Brngmmins und Delpech, Ueber den Hospitalbrand, ubersetz mit An- merkungen und Anhang. von Kieser; Jena, 1815. Boyer, Maladies Chir. t. i. p. 320. Paris, 1814. Sketches of the Medical Schools of Paris, by J. G. Crosse, p. 82, London, 1815. //. Home Blachadder, Obs. on Phugeda;na Gangrrenosa, 8vo. Edin. 1818 : the best treatise on the subject. J. L. Braucr, Obs. de Gangra;na Nosocomial!, 4to. Lips. 1820. R. Wclbank, On Sloughing Phageda:na, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi. 8V0. Lond. 1821 : a valuable essay. .7. Baggie, in Edin. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iii. >82S. .-/. C. Hut- chison, Practical Obs. in Surgery, ed. 2. See also, the other works quoted in. the course of this Article. For the rest of the subject of gangrene, see Mortification. [HYDATIDS, —True hydatids are animal parasites in the form of cysts, which may be de- veloped in most of the tissues and organs of tlie body. They sometimes attain a large size and form cystic tumors, which may by their bulk be destruc- tive to the organs or tissues in which they are lodged, and even to the life of the individual sub- ject to them. The mode of origin of cystic pa- rasites was long the subject of speculation, but the recent researches of Kiichenmeister, Von Sie- bold, and others, have cleared up the mystery, and have demonstrated beyond all doubt, that they constitute stages in the development of tsenia; or tapeworms, which infest the intestinal canal of man and animals. " The history of these entozoa," says Dr. Lan- kester," involves some of the most interesting ques- tions relative to the generation and reproduction of organic beings. Although it was easy to ac- count for the presence of worms in the stomach and intestines by the ready explanation of the swallo\ving of the eggs, a difficulty always presented itself in the case of those creatures called hydatids, which evidently had an independent animal ex- istence. They exhibited no sexes, they produced no eggs, and the readiest theory was that of spon- taneous or equivocal generation. Even as this theory was successively driven from every other part of the animal and vegetable kingdom, it found a refuge amongst the strange and paradoxical crea- tures imbedded in the tissues of man and other animals, far removed from any external influences. The time has however at length arrived, when it can be demonstrated, that the cystic worm is the offspring of the tape-worm, undergoing one staje of its growth, through which it must pass before it can attain to the more dignified development of its parent. From this point of view we may compare the cystic worm to the caterpillar, or chrysalis, stage in the development of the insect. It differs, how- ever, in this, that in many cases the cystic worm has the power of developing at this stage of its growth, a large number of creatures resembling itself, and these have each of them the power of developing themselves into tape-worms, as though the cater- pillar had the power of producing in its interior any number of young caterpillars, each of which woiUd grow into a perfect butterfly. " Here the history of these eutozoa becomes in- teresting from another point of view. They are illustrations of Steenstrup's theory of the' Alterna- tion of Generations.' The cystic worm,—let it be an echinococcus—has originated from the eggs of a tape-worm, the embryo of which has found its way from the stomach and intestines through their walls into the tissues of the body. _ This worm consists of a vesicle or bag, to which is attaciied a head, called the ' scolex.' In the cysticercus, the hydatid of the pig, there is but one scolex, but in the echinococcus there are many scolices. This scolex or scolex-head, as it is sometimes called, is the stock or germ,—the head—from wiiich all the segments of a tape-worm proceed. The cyst of the echinococcus has the power of producing a large number of these heads, each of which may grow into a tape-worm. The cyst, the original cyst oi the worm, is, in the language of Stecnstrup, nurse.' KUchennieister and the Geminns cau a mother cyst. But this cyst will not only pro-