BLADDER. bowl, which covers and protects the tumor and oxtenial organs, and is supported and maintained ill its situation by bandages around the loins. The urine here collected flows through a funnel at its nver part, either into an India rubber bottle iaced between the widely separated thighs, or iown a vulcanised India rubber tube into a iiietallic reservoir adjusted to the inner side of the calf of the leg, and which can be evacuated at leisure by means of a stop-cock. For the female, the bowl will accomplish its object more com- pletely, by being so constnicted that it may enclose the posterior commissure of the labia. See Mr. McWhinnie, in Lond. Med. Gaz. March, 1850, p. 367, where a representation of this apparatus is given, and where an interesting account of the dis- section of one of these cases will also be met with. Certain attempts have been made to relieve these cases by operative procedure ; but, excepting in one instance, the results have not been of a nature to encourage future attempts. M. Gerdy thought of paring the edges of the skin on each side of the protrusion, and of bringing them together, so as to close in the bladder anteriorly; or if they would not readily meet together, to loosen the skin by dissecting it from the subjacent parts. Finding, however, that his preliminary efforts to compress the bladder backwards towards the abdomen were too painful to be borne, he was com- pelled to abandon the idea. He then thought of forming an artificial reservoir for the urine, by means of a metallic plate fitted to the anterior surface of the abdomen, but the papillte at the entrance of the ureters interfering with the comple- tion of his project, he excised one of these, and the consequence was that the patient was attacked with inflammation extending along the ureter to the kidney, which caused his death. (See A. Jamain, De VExstrophie de la Vessie, These Inait- <jurale, Paris, 1845, ani Nelaton, El. de Pathol. Chir. t. V. p. 150.) In another case, M. J. Roux endeavoured to cover in the bladder by means of a flap of skin cut from the scrotum, which was considerably enlarged by the presence of two hydroceles, but the greater part of the flap sloughed, and no satisfactory result was obtained. (Sec Union Med. 1853, p. 449, and Ntlaion, loc. cit.) In another, M. Ad. Richard cut from the abdominal wall a flap large enough to cover the exposed surface of the bladder, but the patient died oiglit days afterwards from peritonitis. (See Oaz. Ilehdom. t. 1. and Nclaton, loc. cit.) A somewhat analogous proceeding had been previously suggested by Mr. T. Wakley, in a case which came under his notice, but was not, the writer believes, ever carried into cftect. The plan of operation proposed by Mr. Wakley seems much better adapted to accomplish its object than that of M. Roux or M. Ricliard. (See Lancet, March 15,1851, p. 290.) In 1851, Mr. Lloyd, in St. Bartholomew's ITospita), endeavoured to conduct the urine into the rectum, by establishing a recto-vesical iistula ; intending afterwards, when the passage of urine through the rectum was complete, to attempt to close the opening in front of tiie abdomen by paring the edges and uniting them by suture. A long trocar, aimed witii some threads, was passed Hirougli tlic posterior wall of the bladder from the rectum. The seton liaving been detached, the 321 instrument was withdrawn, and the two ends of the seton, one projecting from the rectum, and the other from the vesical cavity in the abdomen, were tied in a knot. The patient died five days after- wards from peritonitis. At the post mortem examination, the trocar was found to have passed through the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum, which descended to the neck of the bladder, so as to be in contact with the imperfectly developed prostate gland. (See Holmes Coote, in Medical Times, Oct, 11, 1851, p. 381, and Oct. 18, p. 408.) The only operation attended with any success was one performed by Mr. Simon, in St. Thomas's Hospital. In this instance Mr. Simon succeeded in establishing fistulous communications between the ureters and the rectum, by passing cantite armed with threads from the ureter seen in the posterior wall of the bladder into the rectum. The patient, a boy, had some unfavourable symptoms, but ultimately recovered. {Med. Times, Oct. 18, 1857, p. 408.) The writer is informed by Mr. Simon that this pa,tient died about a year after the communication with the rectum had been established. The im- mediate cause of death was the formation of calculi (probably occasioned by the mucous irritation, for they were phosphatic) along the ureters, and up to the pelves of the kidneys. Mr. Simon states that the result would not deter him from repeating the operation in a suitable case, if he could see his way more clearly to the subsequent obliteration of the vesical ends of the ureters, for it was in this ul- terior step that he failed.] Refer -The publications which contain the most ample information on the subject are a Gottinc^en in- augural dissertation entitled, DeVesica; Unnardpi^. lopsu Natwo, by Dr. Roose, late professor in Bruns- wick and a paper entitled, An Attempt to,oards a Z. tematic account of ike appearances coinecZwHh that to cieis, instead of terminathw in a verfect TUnrlHpi- open externally on the surface\ftliAidommbu A' Duncan Jun. in Edin. Med. and SuTq Joxmial' vol. 1. In this last may be seen references to the most noted cases on record, both male and female voii J. 1<. Meclcel, b. i. p. 650. 8vo Lein ]oi9? [Breschet, art. Extroversion, Diet. des Scienws IVl/d^ ^^.^'y--?"."^'-' Mai. Chir. t. ix.-m Ge!r St Hilaire, Hist, des Anomalies d'Or^anizatioi^chez I'Homme et les Animaux, 3 vols. Paris l825 --.rr Vrolik, SurquelquesSujets Intdress. d'Anat. et PhvV Amsterdam, 1832, and Cyclop, of Anat. and Plivs" part xxxyiii. Feb. 1850. - Clinical Lecture by 1/,. Earle, Med. Gaz. vol. x. 1832. p. 8.-71/ J„,„ ,;„" De L'Exstrophie de la Vessie. Th^se Inaue No Paris, 1845.-il/c IV/dnnie, Account of the'Hlstorv and Dissection of a case of Malformation of the Trw nary Bladder. Lond. Med. Gaz. 1850. p sfio _ av" laton, El6m. de Pathol. Chir. t. v. p. 141. Paris, 1858.] Bla DOER. WoRM.S DISCHARGED PROM Instances have occurred in which worms' are stated to have been discharged from the blnddor Many are referred to in VoigtePs Handbuch del- Pathloc/ischeH Anatomic, b. lii. p 337 340 . interesting example is recorded by Mr. Lam-cnce! (See Med. Ctar. Trans, v. ii. p. 302 &c ) fTh.. patient referred to by Mr. Lawrence contimiod to discharge worms from her bladder at iiitorvils for many years - from 1800- to 1037. A description of thc^se worms, named spiroptera hominis by Rn dolphi, IS given by Professor Owen, in tlio Cyclo- pcedta oj Analomy and Phi/sidoii;/, part x, p ITi art. Enlozoa. Another case is recorded by Mi". Cur- ling, in which numerous small round worms (d'actv hus aculcatus) were discharged from the bladder of a female child. {Med. Cliiv. 7Wois. vol.x.xii. p 27.J)