219 ANEURISM. experience, the cough comes on at irregular periods, is violent, and attended with great efforts, the ex- pectorated matter being forced Tip with vehemence. He agrees with Mr. Hodgson respecting '.the general quality of what is expectorated, where thoracic aneurisms are not complicated with diseased lungs ; but he says 'that the matter coughed up also frequently consists of masses of lymph, blended with brick-red particles of blood, which masses, when thrown into water, seem as if they were composed of a ball of stringy sub- stances. (Germ, transl. of the latter ivorh; p. 137.) From a review of many cases of aortic aneu- risms, Mr. A. Burns was inclined to think, that when the ascending aorta is aneurisrnal, the breath- ing is more affected than when the arch of the vessel is enlarged ; but that, in the latter case, the impediment to deglutition is greatest. (On Bis. of the Heart, ^-c. p. 244.) False aneiurisms are most common in the de- scending aorta, and true ones in the ascending portion of the vessel and its arch. Laennec never ^met with any species of false aneurism in the latter situation, but such as is consequent to the true, or simple dilatation of the artery. {On the Dis. of the Chest, p. 676, ed. by Forbes.) [The si/mptoms of intra-thoracic aneurisms are of two kinds, ausciiltatory and rational. The auscultatory signs vary greatly in distinct- ness, and even in presence. In some cases, more especially in fusiform aneurisms, they are almost from the first of a very marked and obvious cha- racter; in others, especially in sacculated aneurisms, they are absent throughout, the aneurism termina- ting fatally without its existence having been determined by the stethoscope. They consist of murmurs of various kinds and degrees of intensity, bellows, rasping, or whizzing ; by the second sound of the heart being audible over a greater space than normal, and by the existence of dullness on percussion. These various signs may often be heard more distinctly upon, or to the left side of, the spine than at the anterior part of the chest ; when occurring anteriorly they are chiefly met with on the right side. The value of the auscultatory signs in the diag- nosis of aneurisms within the chest, is not per- haps so great as in many other thoracic diseases in the early stages of the affection, and in those cases in which the aneurism continues small and sacculated throughout, or is so deeply seated as not to approach the parietes of the chest. This need not be a matter of surprise, when we reflect on the depth at which the ascending portion of the aorta and the arch are situated, how it is covered in front by the limgs and loose cellular tissue, througli which sound is with difficulty transmitted ; and how it is covered in behind by the spine and its muscles. When, in addition to this, it is borne in mind that aneurisms of the arch often prove fatal by bursting into contiguous cavities and canals before they have attained a greater size than a walnut or a pigeon's egg, and thus are incapable pf furnishing a murmur of any very marked kind, it can easily be understood that the value of auscul- tation is but small in many cases of thoracic aneurisms. The rational sifjns of intra-thoracic aneurism are of three kinds : — 1. Pressure effects, 2. Pulsa- tion. 3. Tremor. Pressure effects may be exercised on any of the contiguous structures, and a glance at the anatomi- cal relations of the thoracic aorta, more particularly the arch, will enable the surgeon to judge of their complexity and importance. They will necessarily vary according to the size of the aneurism, and the portion of the aorta that is affected by it, more by the latter than the former condition. When the aneurism arises from the root of the aorta, and more especially when it is intra-pericardial, it is usually of small size, and its pressure effects will be little obvious. When the aneurism arises from the termi- nation of the arch, or the descending aorta, it may often attain a considerable amount of development without any very obvious pressure effects being induced. Aneurisms that are situated within the concavity of the arch must necessarily give rise to pressure eiFects, by the compression they must exer- cise upon some one or other of the very important structures that are spanned by, and included within, the aortic arch. Where the anterior part of the aorta is affected, the aneurism may attain a very considerable bulk, even coming forward so as to project and pulsate between the intercostal spaces, without any very noticeable pressure effects being induced. But when the posterior wall of the artery is the seat of the disease, then severe symptoms are early sef up by the structures lying contiguous to the artery and along the spine being compressed. When the upper part of the aortic arch is the seat of aneurism, a peculiar train of cerebral symptoms, such as^ vertigo, insensibility, or defective vision, may be induced by its interference with the circula- tion through the carotids. The pressure effects that need chiefly engage our attention are : 1. Pain ; 2. Dyspnoea ; 3 Dysphagia ; and 4. CEdema. 1. Pain is usually one of the earliest symptoms of mtra-thoracic aneurism, and is often of great value in a diagnostic point of view, as it is often more marked when the other symptoms are the least developed. It is generally more severe in sacculated than in fusiform aneurisms, and when the posterior rather than the anterior aspect of the vessel is the seat of disease. The pain, as has been pointed out by Dr. Law, is of two dis- tinct kinds. The first form is lancinating, inter- mitting, and neuralgic in its character, evidently dependent upon pressure on the spinal or sympa- thetic nerves. These pains are chiefly seated on the left side, shoot up the side of the head and face, down the upper arm to the elbow, along the intercosto-humeral nerve, througli the chest or between the scapuUc. The second form of pain usually occurs at a later stage of the disease' is continuous, and of a boring, hot, or burning cha- racter. It seems to depend upon the perforation of the tissues, more especially tlic bones, by the aneurismal tumor, and chiefly occurs on the ri..ht side ot the chest. ° 2. Dyqmma is of very frequent occurrence in intra-thoracic aneurisms ; i,, all probability it is more uniformly met with than any other siuL'la symptom _ It may arise from five distinct condi- tions, and its characters vary with its cause. a. From direct pressure on the trache.i. In'tliesc cnses the dyspncea is attended by much and constant wheezing cough, often by whistling sounds in the chest, ami by slow expansion of that cavity. Tlicre is expectoration usually of thick, tenacious, or ropy mucus.