GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 835 } H 2 tions of tliis kind on record Iiave been done some considerable time after tbe receipt of the wound, and to this practice my own judgment would lead me to give a general preference. In one case, how- ever, Liirroy operated on the fourth day after the receipt of the wound, and with success. [Balls after remaining in the bladder some time get encrusted with the triple phosphates; the same deposit forms on pieces of bone which are driven into it, and which become the nuclei of calculi. It even forms on the coats of the bladder in the seat of the wound, and these crusts are afterwards detached.] After the battle of Waterloo, I was not a little surprised to find, in the hospital established in the St. Elizabeth Barracks, at Brussels, a considerable number of cases in which either the intestines, the stomach, the omentum, or the bladder protruded. I think we had, in the division under Mr. Collier and myself, not less than three protrusions of the bladder. An order, which I received to join the army in the field on the 27th of June, deprived me of the opportunity of witnessing the progress and termination of these interesting cases. However, many had ended fatally before my departure from Brussels. [Paralysis of the bladder is not an uncommon result of blows from shot or large pieces of shell, and rupture of the bladder when in a state of distension may occur, without being accompanied by corresponding injury to the external parts. The rectum is sometimes wounded alone. Mus- ket-balls occasionally lodge in this canal, and are afterwards passed per anum.] [Gunshot Wounds op the Perineum and Genito-urinary Organs.] [Wounds of the perinfeum in which the blad- der remains uninjured are not generally very serious, and eventually do well. In wounds of the scrotum where the tunica vaginalis is laid open, the testis, during the healing process, has a tendency to protnide. Many cases of this nature occurred before Sebastopol, and gave but little trouble in their management. Extensive protrusions of the substance of the testicle, or of fungous growth from it, do not appear to have oc- curred, and judiciously applied pressure seems always to have sufficed for the cure where any amount of protrusion had taken place. [Medical and Surgical, History of the British Army in Turkey and the Crimea, p. .335.) Balls lodging in the testis must be removed; severe inflammation of this organ fuUows, and abscesses may form within the tunica vaginalis, and continue open for several weeks, but in the end terminate favourably. In these cases, where the testis is much bruised and shattered, it may be necessary to remove it to ac- celerate the cure; and Mr. Guthrie states that he has been obliged to extirpate it at a later period, in consequence of the wounded portion becoming enlarged .and diseased, but, ho observes, this occur- rence is rare. In one case to which he refers the lodg- ment of a shot gave rise to enlargement which could not be distinguished from medullary sarcoma, and rendered the removal of the testis necessary; the patient afterwards died of disease of the lumbar glands. (Commerilaries on the Surgery of the War in Spain, S{C. p. 594.) Even slight wounds of the testis may lead to its ultimate absorption. Wounds of the spermatic cord are rare, and seldom lead to fatal, although often to inconvenient, consequences. The great toughness of the fibrous coverings of the erectile tissue of the penis appears to render perforation of its substance difficult. In a case which occurred at Sebastopol, a musket-ball entered between the glans penis and foreskin, ran under the skin the whole length of the organ without wounding the erectile tissue, and made its exit at the root of the penis, afterwards perforating the scrotum and entering the thigh,and was finally cut out of the buttock. Another very similar case is re- lated, where the ball made its escape at the root of theorgan on the opposite side of the penis to which itentered,and subsequently inflicted a woundinthe thigh. {Med. and Surg. History of the Army in the Crimea.) Mr. Guthrie states he had never any occasion to tie an artery, even when the penis was nearly amputated by the missile. " If bleed- ing should take place in the progress of the cure, a large cathetershould be introduced into the urethra, as a point on which pressure may be made laterally; for I am not aware of any other use it can be, un- less the urethra be also torn, when a moderate- sized catheter should be kept in it permanently, if it can be borne, to aid in the healing of the sur- roiniding parts, with as little contraction as possible of the canal. When the corpus spongiosum has been carried away, or sloughs with the urethra, there is usually some injury done at the same time to the corpora cavernosa, and the part becomes contracted, and curved when distended. Several of these cases might be benefited by the formation of a new urethra by borrowing from the neighbour- ing parts after the practice recommended by Dief- fenbach." {Commentaries, p. 594-5.) A ball passing transversely through the corpora cavernosa causes little inconvenience, and the wound heals favourably. There is usually a deficiency of sub- stance of the part after such wounds, and sometimes an inconvenient curve or twist during erection, such as often takes place when the corpora cavernosa and the corpus spongiosum are injured or ruptured from other causes. (Op. cit. p. 595.) Bullet or shell wounds where extensive laceration of ihe perinasum is produced, opening the urethra near the bladder, and causing extravasation of urine, willgonerallj^ ter- minate unfavourably. Many of these present little or no chance of recovery from the commencement, and admit of but little aid from the surgical art. In all cases where the urethra is opened near the bladder, an attempt must be made to discover the opening, in order that an elastic guin catheter may be passed without delay into the bladder, so as to prevent or arrest extravasation of urine into the areolar tissue of the pelvis or perinjEum. For this purpose the wound must be enlarged if ne- cessary, in order to discover the opening into the urethra. The perintcum may be extensively lacerated, and the bones of the pubis and ischium fractured, without any injury to the urethra, or scarcely any abrasion of the skin, as happened to a cavalry soldier at Ooojerat by a round shot. Tlio soft parts of the perinaium sloughed, but recovery took place. In some cases of wound of the perinaium occur- ring at Sebastopol, partial or complete division of the sphincter ani was found to be necessary before the cure could be effected.