508 DISLOCATION. Dislocations of the Smne. [Dislocations of tlie vertebra are less frequent than fractures of these bones ; indeed, a diC Jf°anv oTflf '""P''' ""'=°'«Pl'''-'^-t«^ by fracture 01 any ot the processes, is exceedingly rare. The liabihty to dislocation varies in the different regions of the spine ; ,t is most common in the articuktion between the atlas and axis, but throughout the er vical portion of the spinal column, in consequence of the greater mobility there permitted, andXot hque direction of the articular surface , it is much more likely to occur than in the dorsal or umbar regions ; in these latter situations it has often been described as absolutely impossible unless accom" panied by fracture. Facts, however, have bel placed on record which show that even here it h now not altogether unknown. Dislocations of the spine will require a separate consideration according to the situation in whTch hey occur. They will be treated of in the fol- lowing order. biior^aUaT""'"" °^ '"'""^ ^''^ 2. Dislocation of the first cervical vertebra from the second. veiteora 3. Dislocation of the six inferior cervical vertebra 4. Dislocation of the dorsal and lumbar vertebr*.] w! r ~ }^ ^V''^' examples of this dislocation have been met with The first was observed bj M Lassus. A bundle of hay fell from a height of Mteen or sixteen feet on the posterior part of the neck of a man whose head was at the moment bent forwards. He imniediatelv lost speech and consciousness. The head remained inclined for- wards and a little to the left. The mouth was Mil open, and the upper extremities convulsed. He died in five or six hours. « The condyles of the occipital bone were disunited and separated about three or four lines from the apophyses of the first vertebra of the neck." The right vertebral artery and vein were ruptured. The second was published by M. Palletta. A man fell from a tree, head first. The fourth day he was brought to the hospital, being perfectly conscious, but pulseless, and in a state of extreme debility, the bladder and lower extremities pa- ralysed. He died the next dav. The atlas was found to be " displaced, and its articulation with the occipital bone loosened." There was also a fracture of-the fourth cervical vertebra, but with- out displacement. The third case was recorded by M. Bouisson. A youth of sixteen had his neck crushed by the overturning of a cart, from beneath which he was extricated lifeless. " The atlai=, and especially its right lateral mass, had undergone a movement ot projection forwards, which had carried the right articular surface iu front of the occipital condyle. 1 he right occipito-odontoid ligament was i\ip- tiired ; but the left remained entire, and prevented the luxation taking place on this side. In conse- .'mT.'^v •l'''P'"ceraent of the atlas forwards . Kl to the right, its posterior arch encroached upon the occipital foramen, and compressed the medulla oblongata. J here was no fracture either of the atlas, axis, or occipital bone, The articulation be- tween the atlas and axis was uninjured. CSee Lcs^n., Pcuhoh Chir. t. ii. p. 1.06; Pal ctta, B^roiL Mre^, ^c. t'ii p.'320 )] Dislocations from Disease.—TiWQ exnmnl„= £?:tT'f'''^ c/,-/ar:rt£u! seum at Leyden, and are described by Sandifort Boyer has seen one at La Charite ; and an interest nig description of a similar case, illustrated by e^^^^^ gravings, has been recently published by Schupke 4to. j:ieiol. 1816.) In this tract is collected from the writings of J. P. Frank {Delect. Opusl yo\ v from those of Reil (FieLerleL, b. ii.Tl 02) td if Rust, &c. an exact detail of the symptoms f the tlTA'- T-?"'""' *°P"'=' °" which Boyer con- fesses his inability to give any information. The symptoms have been described by Mr. Lawren e as follows: "Pain i„ the neck,\ecomtg m e severe at night, or in swallowing a large mouthful or drawing a deep breath, is tlie firs^t Bvmptom. This pam affec s one side of the neck, especially when the head is moved towards the shoulder ; it ei ends fron, the larynx towards the nape, and often to the scapula of the pained side. No external alte- ration is perceptible; but firm pressure on the region 0 the first and second vertebra produces consider- able pam, and thus points out the seat of disease. Xhe difficulty of swallowing and breathing and hoarseness, increase, alternating with pain "in the neck, which seems to fix about the back of the head and becomes intolerable on moving that part. 1 he head sinks towards oneshoulder, the face beina urned a little down ; for, in general, the articula° tions are afiected on one side only, and that was d^tb T?i'T"-f" examinations after death. If both sides are affected, the head will nchne directly forwards. In this state things con- tinue for several weeks or months ; and before worse symptoms come on, there is often apparent improve- ment freer motion, and more natural situation of the head. But, the uneasiness in speaking and swallowing returns ; the pain becomes more severe and extensive ; the head falls a little backwards, and shrinks towards the opposite side. The patient feels as if the head were too heavy, and he carefully supports it with his hands, when he moves from the sitting to the lying position, or vice vcrsd. This may be considered a pathognomonic svmptom of tlie affection. Another symptom, which, at this period, shows the true nature of the disease, is a pt culiai- expression of pain in the countenance, which, com- bined with the position and stiffness of the head, constitutes so characteristic an assemblage of ap- pearances, that it is enough to have seen it once, in order to recognise it again immediately. In the further progress of the case, noise in the head, deafness, giddiness, cramps, and convulsions, partial paralysis, particularly of the upper limbs, loss of voice, purulent expectorations, and hectic symptoms supervene. Generally no external change is ob- servable, either in the neck, or in the nape ; and Rust observed, in one case only, swelling of the affected side, whicli broke and left fistulous ulcers. But the slightest pressure in the region of the three upper vertebr;e is acutely painful, and sometimes, in the advanced period of the disease, a grating of rough surfaces is distinctly perceptible when tiie head is turned. The patient maj' continue for months in this helpless and jiainful state, and then dies, either from exhaustion and debility, or, which is more frequent, suddenly and unexpectedly."