ABDOMEN. 11 3 at five o'clock Dr. Albers was sent for, as it was feared the patient was about to die. She was ex- tremely exhausted, and tlie fainting fits followed each other with hardly any intervals. She could just say, " I feel a throbbing in tlie belly ;" and when Dr. Albers applied his hand to the part, he felt a violent pulsation, extending from the en- siforra cartilage down to about the bifurcation of the aorta. The action of the heart was weaker than natural ; the pulse at the wrist very small, but not quicker than it had been on the preceding iay, and not synchronous with the throbbing in the abdomen. Dr. Albers confesses that, at first, he took the case for an aneurism. Dr. Meyerhoff was of the same opinion. Another physician, how- ever, Dr. Weinholt, entertained doubts of the com- plaint being aneurismal, saying, that he recollected having read similar cases in Morgagni. These gentlemen decided to persevere in the employment of opening medicines and clysters, combining opium with the former. Under this plan, the pulsations in the abdomen and tightness of the chest diminished in a few days. The stools were at first of the colour of chocolate, but afterwards resumed their natural appearance. The throbbings, in a weakened form, however, were perceptible for six weeks longer. The patient at length got quite well, and was remaining so four years afterwards. A man, about 40, severely afflicted with hypo- chondriasis, great oppression of the chest, constipa- tion, and tension of the abdomen, tendency to fainting, &c., complained to Dr. Albers that he felt as if his heart had fallen down into his helly, where he was annoyed with an incessant throb- bing. Indeed, when Dr. Albers examined the abdominal parietes, he could feel a very strong pulsation, and what is curious, could trace it not only along the track of the aorta, but in the course of the left iliac artery. The pulse at the wrist, which was small, frequent, and hard, did not cor- respond with the abdominal pulsations. For seve- ral days, the evacuations from the bowels had been as black as pitch. After the employment of gentle purgatives all the complaints quickly abated, thougl feebly perceptible for nine the throbbings were months afterwards. In any persons not very fat, and lying upon their_ backs, the pulse of the aorta can easily be felt, if strong pressure be made a little to the left of the median line, about half way between the navel and scrobiciilus cordis. In certain instances, the pulsation is painfully felt by the patient him- self. In many cases of this kind, particularly in nervous individuals, the sense of pulsation is merely the effect of preternatural action of the heart; while, in other examples, it is the effect of the pressure of some hard substance upon the descending aorta, determining a disproportionate quantity of blood to the head, "and giving to the hand placed on the abdomen, and sometimes even to the eye, the appearance of a beating so near the surface, as to lead inexperienced observers to con- clude that the aorta is morbidly dilated." Ac- cording to Dr. Parry, the most common causes are collections of fa;ces in the colon, requiring repeated and .-ictive purgatives, which must bring away almost incredible discharges of atercoraceous matter before the aortal pulsation subsides. (See Pai r/s L'kmcnls of PaUiohH/ij S(u. ; and the Mo- dico-Chii: .fount, and Rr.riuiv, vol. i. p. 157.) I once attended, with the late Mr. Ramsden, a boy in Christ's Hospital, wlio had a considerable abscess in the lumbar region, attended with dis- tinct and forcible pulsations, corresponding to those of the aorta. Three or four years ago, I was also consulted by Mr. Gilbertson, of Egham, in a case where an enormous abscess in the epigastric region was ac- companied by pulsations as strong and synchro- nous with those of the heart as the throbbings of an aortic aneurism. According to Mr. Allan Bums, a beating is generally felt about the pit of the stomach, in the advanced stage of chronic inflammation of the heart: in this case, when the pericardium is closely adherent to the latter organ, it is corru- gated at every contraction of the ventricles, and the diaphragm and liver are elevated. The ven- tricle, however, having completely emptied itself, is again distended, and, in proportion to the de- gree of dilatation, the liver and diaphragm de- scend, whereby an impulse is communicated in the epigastric region. {O/i Diseases of the Heart, p. 263.) This valuable writer cites the remark of Morgagni (Epist. 17, art. 28), that sometimes in hypertrophy of the heart, this organ descends so far as to push the diaphragm into the hypochondrium, and pulsate in that situation, so that the disease is mistaken for an aneurism of the cosliac artery. In Mr. Burns' work a memorable case of this- description is related. An erroneous judgment is the more likely to be formed in such examples, beca\ise the pulsations of the heart and tumour are not exactly simultaneous ; for it is not the heart which is felt directly beating, but the liver, which, by the action of the heart, is thrown for- wards. Hence the palpable interval between the stroke of the heart and the movement of the liver. Preternatiu-al pulsation about the epigastrium is stated by Mr. A. Bums to be sometimes occa- sioned by encysted tumours, attached either to the lower surface of the diaphragm, or formed be- tween the layers of the pericardium towards the diaphragm, as happened in an instance recorded by Lancisi. Another cause specified by Mr. A. Burns, is enlargement of the vena cava, or of the right auricle of the heart. Senac describes a case, in which the vena cava was as large as the arm, and there had been a violent pulsation in the epigas- trium . The next cause, enumerated by the same gen- tleman, is increased solidity of the lungs, more especially of their lower acute margins, where they overlap the pericardium. In this case, tlie pulsation is about the scrobiculus cordis. Mr. A. Burns notices several other causes of epigastric or abdominal pulsations, already spoken of in the foregoing part of this article, indurations of the pancreas, scirrhus of the pylorus, tumours in the mesentery, or any solid increase of substance about the abdominal aorta, or its principal branches ; and, lastly, a peculiar affection of the vascular system itself. Tlic following observations by Dr. Albers on the criteria between various abdominal pulsations and those of aneurism, appear interesting : — An aneurism originates gradually, and the internal pulsations increase in streiigtliliy degrees. Other abdominal pulsations, on the contrary, begin sud- denly, and are most violent in the beginning, abating after they have lasted some time.