8G2 attracted due consideration. At the instant of the soft parts being divided, where the course of the blood has been suspended by compression, a pro- fuse quantity of this fluid sometimes gushes from the wound. Inexperienced surgeons, alarmed by tiie circumstance, stop the operation, and, by de- ranging the compression already made, rather in- crease than lessen the bleeding. Here, according to Dupuytren, the colour of the blood should guida the operator. If dark-coloured, it comes from the limb below the incisio}is, and, as it will soon cease, is of no importance. But, in operating on parts abounding in veins, and in which the circulation has not been interrupted, the dark-coloured bleed- ing will sometimes go on, fill the wound, and hinder the operator's proceedings. This is often illustrated in laryngotomy and tracheotomy. In other instances, the blood flows out profusely from the large veins, which are divided, the patient turns pale, and seems as if he would perish on the ope- rating table. Dupuytren observes, that the con- tinuance of such haemorrhage depends more upon the patient suspending respiration than on the size of the veins, and the blood, not being then able to pass through the lungs, makes its escape from the veins divided in the operation. Here it is inexpe- dient to apply ligatures, because if one set of veins were tied, another set would begin to bleed. But directly the patient has filled his lungs two or three times completely with air, by making full inspira- tion, the haemorrhage ceases. These precepts were never forgotten by Dupuytren, whenever he divided considerable veins, either in the trunk, face, neck, or upper part of the limbs. (See Lemons Orales de Clinique Chir. t. iv. p. 392.) It would appear, from the researches of M. Poiseuille, that the in- terruption of respiration has influence only on the portion of the venous system above the diaphragm. (See Journ. Univ. Hebdom. de MSdecine, t. i. p. 289, et t. ii. p. 97, 8vo. Paris, 1830.) However this may be, the practical observations of M. Dupuytren are highly important with reference to venous hie- morrhage in the extraction of fibrous tumors from the nose or antrum, tracheotomy, and all other operations in the anterior region of the neck, a region so abundantly provided with veins of all sizes. The long and deep inspirations, however, recommended for the suppression of venous bleed- ings, are suspected by M. Sanson to have had, in some instances, a share in promoting the entrance of air into the veins, particularly when one of those in the upper part of the body has been wounded, and when, in consequence of its parietes being indu- rated, it gapes, as wasonceexemplified toM.Delpech in the axillary vein. (Clin. Chir. de Montpellier.) I he passage of air into the wounded veins, observed by Beauchene, Dupuytren, Graefe, Mott, and Cle- mot, usually destroys the patient almost instantly, unless care be taken to place a finger over the wound in the vein, as was done by M. Clemot. (&'ieSanso>i,jDesI/gnorrhaffies Traumatiques,]^.9l.') The ha;morrhage from the bites of leeches some- times proves exceedingly obstinate, and instances of death from this cause have occasionally happened, particularly in children. When common methods tail, the plan has been recently tried of passing a hne sewing needle through the skin on one side of tiie wound, and then another through the skin on i-nLT^u""" """^ twisting some thread cloJl fi to draw them together and ^lo.e the bite. The experiment fully answered. HiEMORRMAGE. (See Lond. Med. Repository, Jan. 1819, p. 23 26.) Simply transfixing the leech bite with a single small sewing needle, and passing a ligature around it answers equally well. [Acupressure.] [A novel method of arresting ha2morrhage has been lately introduced by a high authority in ob- stetric medicine, Dr. J. Y. Simpson, of Edinburgh to whom the profession and the public are indebted tor the selection of chloroform as an anesthetic in preference to ether, and for many other original and important improvements in medical science. Dr. Simpson gives to this new method the term of " Acupressure," which he recommends to surgeons as a substitute for the ligature, the ordinary means no\y universally adopted by the profession for se- curing bleeding vessels. The needles, or rather pins, used for this purpose are straight, and of va- rious lengths and thicknesses, guarded by a knob at one end and pointed at the other, resembling those employed in the operation for hare-lip. The mode of using the pins is described by Dr. Simpson in the Edinburgh Med. Journal for Jan. 1860, p. 647, from which I subjoin the following extracts. " The whole process consists in passing the needle totce through the substance of the wound, so as to compress together and close, by the mid- dle portion of the needle, the tube of the bleeding artery a line or two, or more, on the cardiac side of the bleeding point. In acting upon this mode, the surgeon may place the tip of the fore-finger of his left hand upon the bleeding mouth of the artery which he intends to compress and close ; holding the needle in his right hand, he passes it through the cjitaneous surface of the flap, and pushes it in- wards until its point projects out to the extent of a few lines on the raw surface of the wound, a little to the right of, and anterior to, his finger-tip ; he then,by the actions of his right hand upon the head of the needle, turns and directs the needle so that it makes a bridge, as it were, across the site of the tube of the bleeding arter}', immediately in front of the point of the finger with which he is shutting up its orifice. He next, either with this same fore-finger of the left hand, or with the side of the end of the needle itself, compresses the locnlitj' of the bleeding arterial orifice and tube, and then pushes on the needle with his right hand, so as to make it re- enter the surface of the wound, a little to the left side of the artery ; and, lastly, by pressing the needle further on in this direction, its point .-e- emerges through the cutaneous surface of the flap, and the site of the tube of the bleeding artery is in this way left pinned down in a compressed state by the arc or bridge of steel that is passed over it. The needle thus passes first from and through the skin of the flap imvards to the raw surface of the wound, and, after bridging over the site of the ar- tery, it passes, secondly, from the raw surface of the wound outwards again, to and through the skin. Sometimes the needle will be best passed hy the aid of the eye alone, and without guiding its course by the finger-tip applied to the bleeding orifice. To compress a bleeding artery against a bone is somewhat more complicated, but not much so. In accomplishing it, we have to introduce, from the cutaneous surface, a long needle through the fl;ip of the wound obliquely to near the site of the ar- tery, and then compressing, with the fingers of the