i AMPUTATION. 93 j i closely as possible down to the bone ; but, when I : knife approaches the arteiy, tliis vessel is to be : ken hold of and compressed by an assistant, be- ! l e the incision is coniplett-d. In this way, no :i. inorrhage need be apprehended. Wiien it is the right limb, the only difference is, tliat tlie first incision is made at the inner side of t!ie arm, and extended up to the acromion. Scout- ti ten considers a single assistant sufficient, and Loinpression of the subclavian artery unnecessary. (II. Scoutteten, La Melhode Ovalaire, on Nouvelk Methtxle pour ampuier dans les Articulations. Paris, lu-27, 4io.) [With respect to the choice between the different methods of amputation proposed for the shoulder- joint, it is scarcely necessary to repeat, that no one operation can be employed exclusively in all cases, but the selection must be influenced by the state in which the soft parts are found in each particular instance; for example, when the tissues on the out- side of the joint are much injured, a flap from the deltoid would be impossible, and anterior and pos- terior flaps, or Larrey's or Guthrie's oval incisions must be resorted to instead. On the other hand, wlien a musket-ball has passed through the shoul- der so as to injure the parts in front and behind, tlie operations just alluded to must give place to tlie external flap formed from the deltoid muscle, as recommended by La Faye, Dupuytren, &c. The double flaps and the oval incisions have the advantage of leaving a smaller cicatrix, which forms merely a single vertical line of wound, and is less extensive than after the single flap operation, where it is either square or semicircular in outline.. The circular operation is more difficult of performance than the other methods, and, notwithstanding the recommendation of M. Vrlpeau, is very rarely prac- tised. In cases of tumors of the arm requiring ampu- tatiiin at the shoulder, the oval incision will be found most convenient, as the disease which necessitates the operation will almost always extend too high to admit of the formation of flaps by transfixion. In a case of extensive disease of the humerus, in which the tumor was equal in size to the trunk of the patient's body, the present editor removed the limb, with great facility, by incisions of this kind, and notwithstanding the magnitude of the disease, the wound healed by first intention, and left a very small cicatrix.] When the scapula is shattered, of course the loose fragments should be taken away ; and, if the acromion be broken, and the remnant of it pointed anil irregular, this sharp rough portion should be sawn off, as was practised long ago by M. Faure. (See Mem. de I'Acad, da Chir. t. vi. p. 114.) In one case, indeed, Larrey found it necessary to take aw.ay more than two thirds of the scapula, and the humeral end of the clavicle. {MCm. de Chir. Mil. t. iv. p. 432.) Sawing off part of the acromion, and coracnid process, as a general rule, seems to me quite unnecessary and improper, not only as producing delay, but wounding other parts which should not be at all disturbed. (See Oulhrie on (liinshol Wounds, p. 28.5, 28b', &c.) The practice of scraping away the cartilage of the glenoid cavity, exc<'[it when it is diseased, is not of greater value. [Cases have occurred in which it was necessary to remove the ivliole of the scapula with the upper e.vtreinity. Tills was done successfully by Mr. Cuming in 1808, at Antigua, in a case of gun- shot wound. In iUoO, Gaetani Bey, at Cairo, removed the whole of the scapula and half of the clavicle in a boy fourteen years of age. The case was one of extensive injury ; after amputation at the glenoid cavity the scapula being much shattered was cut away, and then the clavicle, being found to project too much, was partially removed. The patient recovered. (See Feryusson, Op. Surg. p. 338.) In 1844, M. Rigaud of Strasbourg, re- moved the entire scapula, with the external extre- mity of the clavicle, with complete success, in a soldier aged 51, for an osseous tumor on the an- terior angle of the left scapula. In this case the arm had been removed at the shoulder-joint eight months previously for a tumor on its upper portion. (See Velpeau, El. de Med. Oper. vol. ii. p. 471, Mott's Translation.) Several cases also are re- corded of recovery taking place after the arm with the scapula liad been completely torn away by machinery. (Fergusson, loc. cit., and Ed. Med. Journ. Feb. 1845.)] lower extremity. [Amputation of the Toes.] [Amputation of the phalanges of the toes may be performed in the same way as in the fingers. Amputation of the toes at the metatarso-phalan- geal joints may also be performed, as in the fingers, either with lateral flaps, or by the oval method. In the great toe the large size of the head of the metatarsal bone should be remembered, or the operator may find that he has not left sufficient skin to cover it without an undue tension of the flaps. In this joint upper and underflxips will be found to answer remarkably well, and the thick pad of skin under the ball of the great toe will then be preserved uninjured. A method suggested by Mr. Skey produces a very similar result. He makes a longitudinal incision along the inner side of the toe, commencing about half an inch behind the articulation, and carried onwards to the middle of the first phalan.x. At the end of this line he makes a circular incision round the toe down to the bone and then reflects back the integuments. (Op. Surg. p. 378.) The head of the metatarsal bone when implicated in the disease or injury should be removed with the saw or with the cutting forceps. If this is to be done, the in- cision may commence a little more posteriorl3', hut the head of the bone should always be retained if possible, as it forms the principal point of support at the anterior part of the foot. All the toes may be separated from their meta- tarsal bones by a proceeding similar to that recom- mended for the fingers.] [Amputation op the Toes together with THEiii Metatarsal Bonks.] [The great toe with its metatarsal bone may bo removed by the oval incision recommended for the thumb or little finger. The point of the oval should commence half an mch behind the joint, or it will be difficult to disarticulate the metatarsal bone from the internal cuneiform without notching the skin. To avoid this inconvenience M, A. Gudrin suggests that an incision should be made from the point of the oval downwards towards the inner margin of the sole of the foot, and over the articulation, thus forming an angular flap which may be turned down {Chir. Opir. p. 140',) In this operation it will be necessary to bear in