GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 807 From the circumstance of the inner surface of gunshot wounds being often more or less deadened, they are late in inflaming. This explanation of the fact, as delivered by John Hunter, is the best yet offered. Traumatic inflammation being at first generallj' iiidolent, gives to gunshot wounds, in their first stage, as Dupuytren observes, a deceitful appearance of mildness (see Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 452); for afterwards, the inflammation, which is often more considerable at the entrance than the exit of the ball, becomes very intense. But when a ball has fractured a bone, which fracture has occasioned great injury of the soft parts, independently of that caused immediately by the ball itself, the inflam- mation will come on as quickly as in cases of com- pound fracture; because the deadened part bears no proportion to the laceration or wound in general. \j. Hunter., Palmer's Edit. p. 643.) From the same circumstance of a part being often deadened, gunshot wounds frequently cannot be completely understood in the first instance; for, in many cases, it is at first impossible to know what parts are killed, whether bone, tendon, or soft part. Nor can this be ascertained till the slough separates, which often makes the wound much more complicated than was previously ima- gined. For some viscus or a part of some viscus, or a part of some large artery, or even a bone, may have been killed by the violence. If a piece of the intestine has been killed, the contents of the bowel will begin to come through the wound when the slough separates. If a portion of a large blood- vessel is killed, a profuse, and even fatal haemor- rhage may come on, when the slough is detached, although no material quantity of blood may have been previously lost. (See Hunter, Palmer's Edit. p. 544.) Thus several days after the receipt of the wound, and when all danger from inflammation is over, a bleeding per anum, occa- sioned by the separation of a slough from some internal vessel, may destroy the patient, as hap- pened in a very interesting case reported by Mr. Guthrie, (p. 13. ed. 2.) A soldier of the 2nd battalion of the 44th regiment was shot in the ham at the assault of Bergen-op-zoom, in 1814. There was no haemorrhage for ten days ; but at the end of this period, the popliteal artery gave way, and I was obliged to take up the femoral artery, by which means the bleeding was effectually stopped, and the man recovered. When the ball moves with little velocity the mischief is generally less, the bonSs are not so likely to be fractured, the parts are less deadened, &c. However, when the velocity is just great enough to splinter a bone which is touched, the splintering is generally more extensive than if the impetus of tlie ball had been much greater, in which case a piece is more likely to be taken out. When the ball moves slowly, it is more likely to be turned by any resistance it may encounter in its passage through parts, and hence the wound is more apt to take a winding course. The track of a ball is generally more or less tortuous in consequence of the unequal resistance of the different textures and the deviations of the projectile itself. When a ball enters a part with great velocity, but is almost spent before it comes out again, in consequence of the resistance it has met with, there may be a good deal of sloughing about the en- trance, and little or none about the exit, owing to the different degrees of celerity with which the ball traversed the j -rts. (See Hunter, On Infamma- tion. Gunshot Wounds, Sfc.) The effects of a ball upon a bone vary according to circumstances. Sometimes they only amount to a contusion of it; but this accident, though slight in appearance, is frequently followed by perilous consequences. The periosteum, if not destroyed, inflames and separates iiom the bone, and necrosis ensues to a greater or lesser extent. If the bone be of a spongy texture, the inflammation may spread far in its inti-rnal vasculnr structiure. In the skull the two tables are almost always attacked by necrosis, and the dura mater inflames consecu- tively. If the force of the projectile be such as to overcome the resistance of the bones, these are broken with greater facility in proportion as their hardness is more considerable and their elasticity less. The flat bones, like those of the cranium and the scapula, are sometimes perforated as cleanly as if a portion of them had been taken out with a circular saw. In other instances they are more extensively broken and comminuted. A ball may break a part of a long bone, like the tibia, without a fracture being produced, extending through all its circumference; but more commonly, the middle compact portions of the long bones are reduced into numerous fragments of various shapes and dimensions. If the projectile retains but very little impetus, or strikes a bone obliquely, this may be fractured without being at all splintered. Of this, two instances are recorded by Dupuytren. {Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 442.) Gunshot wounds may have either one or two apertures, according as the ball has lodged or passed quite through the part. In some cases the openings are diametrically opposite each other ; in others they are not so, the direction of the ball having been changed by the resistance which it met with from a bone, cartilage, tendon, &c. Thus a ball has been known to enter just on the inside of the ankle and come out near the knee, to enter the forehead and come out at the temple, &c. {Richerand, Nosographie Chir. t. i. p. 219, edit. 2.) Dr. Hennen mentions an instance in which a ball entered near the pomum Adami, and after running completely round the neck, was found in the very orifice at which it had entered. " This circuitous route is a very frequent occurrence, particularly when balls strike the ribs or abdominal muscles, for they are turned from the direct line by a very slight resistance indeed, although they will at times run along a continued surface, as the length of a bone along a muscle or a fascia, to a very ex- traordinary distance." Dr. Hennen refers to cases in which the ball traversed almost the whole ex- tent of the body and extremities. " In one instance, which occurred in a soldier, with his arm extended in the act of endeavouring to climb up a scaling- ladder, a ball, which entered about the centre of the humerus, passed along the limb, and over the posterior part of the thorax, coursed among the abdominal muscles, dipped deep through the glutaji, and presented on the forepart of the o|)posito thigh, about midway down, In another case, a ball, which struck the breast of a man standing erect in the ranks, lodged in the scrotum." (i'rinciplvs of Military Suryert/, p. 34. ed. 3.) Le Vacher saw a case in which a ball entered the front of the thigh, and came out at the point diametrically opposite, without the femur being broken. Facts of this 3 P 4 '