HERNIA. 949 3 P 3 the closest stricture, are tlie most difficult to re- duce; and, for the same reason, crural ruptures do not so often yield to the taxis as inguinal hernias in the male subject. The taxis becomes less likely to succeed the longer the inflamed viscera have been down, because adhesions are liable to form. Mr. Lawrence observes (p. 63), " When the rup- tiu'e becomes painful, we are no longer justified in persevering in attempts at reduction by the hand. A sufficient pressure cannot now be endured; and the force which is employed only tends to increase the inflammation, and accelerate the approach of gangrene. At this period ilie operation is required, and should be performed tuiihout delayP Desault even proscribed the taxis altogether in the inflam- matory strangulation until the previous use of other means had produced a change in the state of the swelling. That the taxis is frequently abused and the cause of serious mischief, is a truth which cannot be doubted. " Strangulated herniee (says Scarpa) very frequently mortify from the negligence of the pa- tients, and their repugnance to submit to an opera- tion, and perhaps still more frequently from the effect of the taxis unskilfully exercised by un- informed surgeons, who are determined, at any price whatsoever, to accomplish the speedy reduc- tion of the viscera. The majority of them make no distinction between the aeute and the chronic strangulation. In both cases, no sooner are the symptoms of strangulation evinced than they begin to handle the swelling roughly, and to push the viscera with all their force, in order to make them return into the abdomen ; whilst, when the stran- gulation is acute, and the patient young and strong, the taxis ought never to be practised before all the means proper for diminishing the strength, calming spasm, and relaxing the parts which are to be re- duced, have been employed for a certain time. These means, we know, are bleeding, fomentations, emollient clysters, and especially the warm bath, which, next to bleeding, holds the first rank. At this school of surgery I have frequently had oppor- tunities of observing the salutary effect of this treatment. My pupils have more than once seen hernise which had been painfully handled without any good, reduced, as it vvere spontaneously, after a bleeding, or whilst the patient was in the bath. If what I have said upon the subject of the acute strangulation, and the treatment that it requires, were generally known by surgeons, I think that operations for strangulated hernise would be less frequent. " Things are different with regard to the chro- nic strangulation of old largo hernite in feeble or'aged persons ; for in these cases it is of great importance to support the patient's strength. Bleed- ing, the warm bath, and other weakening means should also be avoided, which, by producing a ge- neral atony, might bring on gangrene of the intes- tine, either during the strangulation, or after the reduction of the viscera. It is ascertained that these kinds of strangulation are almost always oc- casioned by an accumulation of faical matter, or an extraordinary quantity of air in the hernia. No- thing is more efficacious than cold applications for promoting the action of the bowel on the mutter which distends it, or for lessening the volume of the hair. They produce a cornig.ation of all the Bcrotuni, and contractions of the cremaster, which alone sometiraes suffice for reducing the viscera in a much better manner than could be done by the hands of the most experienced surgeon." {Scarpa, Traite des Hernies, p. 244—247.) The advice of Mr. Guthrie respecting the taxis is in exact accor- dance with that of Scarpa. {On Inguinal and Fe- moral Hernia, p. 23.) Bleeding.—The inflammation which attacks the protruded viscera and spreads thence over the whole abdomen, the temporary weakness, and often fainli ing, which the sudden loss of blood induces, and the favourable state in which it places the patient for reducing the hernia by the hand, are the reasons in favour of bleeding. Sharp, Pott, B. Bell, Sa- batier, Richter, Callisen, Sir Astley Cooper, and Scarpa, names which can never be surpassed in respectability, are all in favour of bleeding. Wilmer and Alanson have published against the prac- tice. Sir Astley Cooper thus expresses himself on the subject of bleeding:—"The object of it is, first, by the general languor which it oc- casions, to produce a relaxation of the strictured part, and next to prevent the local inflammation from running so high as to occasion mortification, which would render the case fatal, though the pro- truded parts were returned. The quantity of blood to be drawn should be from fourteen to twenty ounces, according to the strength of the patient's constitution. So much should be taken away as to bring on a degree of faintness, in which state of general relaxation the attempts at reduction should be repeated. A surgeon unaccustomed to the small thready pulse of a person suffering under strangulated hernia, feels apprehensive of taking away blood, conceiving the patient's strength to be fast sinking; but this fear is groundless, as the pulse becomes larger and fuller after this evacua- tion." {Sir Astley Cooper, On Abdominal Hernia, p. 32, ed. 2.) Mr. Hey has related two cases which strongly evince the manner in which bleeding facilitates the return of a hernia: the protruded viscera, in one instance, went up spontaneously on blood being taken away; in the other, the taxis succeeded im- mediately afterwards, though the previous at- tempt had been made in vain (p. 125, 126). Mr. lley's experience, however, leads him to concur so far with Wilmer and Alanson as to declare that bleeding has generally failed to procure a reduction of the strangulated intestine, though he is persuaded that in many cases it may be used with advantage. But he cannot agree with Wilmer that it generally renders the subsequent operation more dangerous (p. 126). The majority of candid practitioners, I believe, will allow that bleeding is always proper when the hernia is small and recent, the abdomen tense and painful, and the patient young, strong, and plethoric. [Since tho introduction of chloro- form, bleeding is seldom had recourse to, and never merely to produce faintness and loss of muscular power.] In some old herniaj, where the symptoms depend upon mere detention of the intestinal matter, with- out any serious degree of compression of the bowel and very little pain in the tumor itself, bleeding is not indicated. In these old and well-marked cases of the passive state of tho abdominal opening, as Mr. Guthrie calls them, " Bleeding to syncope will only weaken the patient and do little good. The warm bath will not be very eft'ective, and tobacco enemata in elderly persons are sometimes dangerous. The three principal remedies in recent