380 CANCER. where the cracked nnd livid integument, previ- ously exuding a sanious ichor, is most prominent, and the external opening is sometimes enlarged by a partial sloughing of the integument. Sup- puration now takes place in the surrounding cel- lular membrane, and, as granulations spring up luxuriantly fiom the sides, the centre of the tu- mor gapes, and becomes a cavity more or less considerable. The granulations have a spongy or fungoid character, and are so elevated and broadly everted, as to give the appearance of additional depth and breadth to the sore. " As the slough- ing process enlarges and deepens the centre, the disease becomes exceedingly offensive; and although granulations continue sprouting circumferentially at the same time, they have not the power of maintaining their vitality. It is in vain that we attempt to preserve the ulcer from foulness and fetor, by detergent applications ; we can render it clean, but, in a day or two, the newly cleansed surface ulcerates afresh, instead of advancing towards cicatrisation." (Travers, in Med. CJiir. Trmis. vol. xv. p. 211.) He adds, that in scirrhus it is not suppuration which, as in scrofulous and other tumors, brings the disease to the surface ; nor does the skin ulcerate until after the scirrhus. " Encompassed by a dense wall, the centre breaks up by ulceration, constituting the state of occult cancer. Indeed, the scirrhus is seldom removed so early as to be found with its nucleus unbroken (p. 213). This observation agrees with that of Laennec respecting the softening process, who only erred in representing it as invariably taking place. Mr. Abernethy describes the diseased skin, co- vering a scirrhous tumor of the breast, as gene- rally ulcerating before the swelling has attained any great magnitude : a large chasm is then pro- duced in its substance, partly by a sloughing, and partly by an ulcerative process. Sometimes, when cells contained in the tumor are by this means laid open, their contents, which are pulpy matter of different degrees of consistence and various colours, fall out, and an excoriating ichor ensues from their sides. This discharge takes place with a celerity which would almost lead to the belief that it can hardly result from the process of se- cretion. Afterwards an attempt at reparation is made. New flesh is formed, constituting a fungus of peculiar hardness. This even occasionally ci- catrises. But though the actions of the disease are thus mitigated—though they may be, for some time, indolent and stationary — they never cease, nor does the part ever become healtliy. In the meanwhile, the disease extends through the medium of the absorbent vessels. Their glands become affected, at a considerable distance from the original tumor. The progress of carcinoma in an absorbent gland is the same as that which has been already described. The disease is com- municated from one gland to another, so that after all the axillary glands are affected, those which lie under the collar-bone, at the lower part of the neck, and upper part of the chest, become disor- dered. Occasionally, a gland or two become diseased higher up in the neck, and apparently out of the course whicli the absorbed fluids would take. As the disease continues, the absorbent glands, iu the course of the internal mammarv vessels, become affected. In the advanced stage, small tumors, similar in structure to the original disease, form at some distance, so as to make a kind of irregular circle round it. The strongest constitutions now sink under the pam and irritation which the disease creates, ag- gravated by the obstruction, which it occasions to the function of absorption in those parts, to which the vessels leading to the diseased glands belong. Towards the conclusion of the disease, the patient is generally affected with difficulty of breathing and a cough. (See Aberneihy's Surgical Woi'Ics, vol. ii. p. 72, &c.) ' The general condition of the patient is excel- lently described by Sir Charles Bell: — After no- ticing the hectic fever which preys upon her, he observes, the countenance is pale and anxious, with a slight leaden hue ; the features have be- come pinched, the lips and nostrils slightly livid; the pulse is frequent; the pains are severe. In the hard tumors, the pain is stinging, or sharp; in the exposed surface, it is burning and sore. Pains, like those of rheumatism, extend over the body, especially to the back and lower part of the spine, the hips and shoulders, &c. Successively the glands of the axilla, and those above the cla- vicle, become diseased. Severe pains shoot down the arm of the affected side; it swells in an alarm- ing degree, and lies immovable. At length, there is nausea and weakness of digestion. A tickling cough distresses her. Severe stitches strike through the side; the pulse becomes rapid and faltering; the surface cadaverous; the breathing anxious; and so she sinks." (Med. Chir. Trans, vol.xii. p. 223.) One of the most deplorable effects, occasionally resulting from cancer, is so great a fragilitj^ of the bones, that those of the limbs are broken by the most trifling causes, as merely turning in bed, &c. Sir Astley Cooper mentions several exam- ples of this fact. In the collection at St. Thomas's Hospital is the thigh-bone of a Mrs. Edge, which broke on her merely rising in bed; and also the thigh-bone of another cancerous patient, that was fractured by her turning in bed. {Lectures, ^c. vol. ii, p. ] 84.) I have seen several instances of this fact myself. A female patient was in the North London Hospital under Mr. Liston with a cancerous breast, and a humerus which broke spontaneously. She had also had some other bone fractured in the same way; and, what deserves attention, the union had taken place ver3' well. In the museum of University College is a thigh-bone, which gave way in a coachman as he was turning in bed, while he was labouring under cancer of the blad- der. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvii.) Other cases are recorded by surgical writers. (See Fra- gilitas Ossium.) It seems that the scirrhous sub- stance is deposited in the structure of the bones, as the sternum of Mrs. Edge, above mentioned, fully illustrates; and iu the Museum at St. Thomas's are two curious specimens of diseased spine, in which much of the bone is absorbed, and scirrhous tubercles are deposited in the spaces produced by absorption. In Universitj"^ College Museum is a portion of the skull, containing a similar deposit, in lieu of osseous matter : it was taken from a woman, who died of a cancer of the breast. In the above species of carcinoma described by Mr. Abernethj', the part is peculiarly hard, and rarely attains considerable magnitude. He admits, however, that there are varieties, and speaks of another case, iu which the integuments sometimes remain pale and pliant; "and a sur-