lower end of the femur had passed almost entirely 0 0 4 through the skin on the outer side of the jomt; the ligamentum patella; was ruptured. • The reduc- tion was in this case also successfully accomplished. By degrees the patient was able to walk, and at the end of two years to ride on horseback; but the knee was liable to attacks of inflammation, and was also subject to frequent displacements, which it became necessary to guard against by mechanical apparatus (loc. cit. p. 950).] ' Dislocation ouhuards.—In the luxation of the head of the tibia outwards, the external condyle of the OS femoris is thrown upon the inner semilunar cartilage, or, as Sir Astley Cooper says, rather be- hind it; the tibia in this case, as in the dislocation inwards, being somewhat twisted upon the femur, and the condyle thrown a little backwards, as well as laterally. [This, like the dislocation inwards, is almost always incomplete, only one case of complete dis- location having, we believe, been hitherto recorded According to M. Malgaigne, there are two varieties of the incomplete dislocation ; in the first there is an incomplete displacement outwards of the tibia, with displacement outwards, likewise incomplete, of the patella; here, the centre of the head of the tibia corresponds to the under surface of the ex- ternal condyle of the femur: in the second variety there is a more considerable displacement of the tibia, with complete dislocation of the patella. Here the external condyle of the femur rests in the internal concavity of the head of the tibia. He be- lieves that when the external condyloid fossa of the tibia is completely disengaged from the femur, the complete dislocation outwards of the patella is inevitable. M. Malgaigne refers to seven cases of each variety. . A good example of the first kmd is recorded by Dr. Hargrave, of Dublin. The inner condyle of the femur was very prominent, and the integxv ments over it tense ; there was a hollow below it into which the finger could be placed; the patella was pushed outwards, projected over the external condyle, and was slightly moveable. The leg was bent outwards from the thigh, and could be made to form nearly a right angle externally without causing much pain; the tibia was partially dislo- cated outwards from the femur, and its articular surfaces were directed obliquely upwards and in- wards. Flexion and extension of the leg were perfect. The reduction was effected without difficulty, but suppuration took place in and around the joint, and the patient died seven weeks after the accident. Examination of the joint showed that the internal lateral ligament was completely ruptured at its origin; the external lateral ligament was partially torn. The anterior crucial ligament was ruptured across about its centre, but the posterior was entire and uninjured. The patella and its ligaments were sound. (See Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Science, May 1850, p. 473.) The bending outwards of the leg is not constant, M. Malgaigne found it inclined in the opposite direction, while the articular surfaces of the two bones were separated externally. Th same position of the leg was met with in a case observed by M. Bruch. Of M. Malgaigne's second variety of incomplete dislocation, an example was observed by Mr. Morgan in Guy'a Hospital. The accident had DISLOCATION. 567 happened three years and a half previously, and had not been reduced. Mr. Morgan found the external condyle resting upon the inner part of the head of the tibia and internal semilunar carti- lage, while the thigh-bone was at the same time somewhat twisted outwards. The patella was thrown with its ligament on the outer side of the external condyle, and the articular surface on which it formerly rested was easily felt through the integuments. Soon after the accident attempts had been made to reduce the dislocation, but they proved unsuccessful, and no further trial was made. When seen by Mr. Morgan, the motion of the joint was very limited, the powers of the extensors being lost, and that of the flexors very confined; but his principal inconvenience was, that the joint frequently gave way inwards, causing him immediately to fall to the ground. (See Lancet, 1826, vol. ix. p. 843.) Fpr another well-marked example, observed at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, see Lancet, Aug. 1833, p. 732. In this case there was no difficulty in the reduction. Redtcctio7i.—It will generally be accomplished easily, by extension and coaptation, combined with rotation of the limb, if necessary, on the same principle as in the dislocation inwards. The following is an outline of the case before alluded to of complete dislocation outwards of the knee, which was observed at the London Hos- pital :—The dislocation of the tibia from the femur was complete, the articular surfaces not being in the slightest degree in contact. The tibia and fibula were thrown to the outer side of the condyles, and formed there a remarkable tumour a little above the level of the articular surface of the femur. The condyles of the latter bone were equally prominent internally. The patella was thrown over the outer condyle. The direction of the axis of the tibia was altered, the foot being carried towards the opposite, and rotated a little inwards. The reduc- tion was accomplished by Mr. Luke, without diffi- culty, by extension of the leg and slight lateral pressure oh its outer surface. The tendency to inflammation in the knee was effectually checked by the daily application of a considerable number of leeches. This patient recovered, notwithstand- ing a severe compound fracture of the opposite leg ; but the skin on the inner side of the joint became firmly adherent to the internal condyle, and the movements of the knee seem to have been very materially impaired. (See Land. Med. Gaz. 1831, vol. vii. p. 703.)] [Lateral suhhixations of the hiee.—It sometimes happens that one or other of the lateral ligaments of the knee are ruptured without any actual dislo- cation of the tibia from the femur, although the rup- ture permits a separation of the surfaces of the bones from each other on the side on which it has oc- curred. Sir C. Bell gave the name of subluxation to the rupture of the internal lateral ligament, but the same thing may take place also on the outer side. (See Malgaigne, Traita des Fract, t. ii. p. 946.) Any force tending to bend the knee outwards or inwards produces tension of the external or inter- nal lateral ligament, and may cause its rupture. The same kind of force, if more powerful or long continued, may then cause a real displacement of the tibia from the femur outwards or inwards; and this is doubtless the way in which the lateral dis- locations are sometimes produced, the subluxation