HYPERTROPHY. blood is giving way to other and deeper seated morbid conditions, the fibrine becomes affected. The coagula are then opaqne, yellow, or ot a greenish yellow colour, and contain fat; they are less disposed to become organised, and more readily liquefy; they lose their globe-like structure and tibrillation, contain an abundance of nuclei and cell formations in different degrees of complete- ness, and more or less assimilating to the pus-cell, and in the most marked cases they pass rapidly into puriform liquefaction. The blood in the most marked of these cases is fluid or loosely clotted, often tenacious from loss of serum, of a dark cherry-red tint, forming dirty red hypostases in the viscera; the liver is dark coloured, the muscles lax, dark patches are rapidly and ex- tensively developed, rigor mortis is delayed and slight, the parenchjmia is collapsed, flabby, lacer- able, and moist, and where there is no hypostasis it is pallid. {Croupous Crasis of Roldtansky.) Treatment.—The treatment of hyperinosis in the practice of surgery merges into that of inflamma- tions, hypersemias, wounds, and local diseases gene- rally, and we must refer to those diseases which involve this condition of the blood for a full state ment of the principles adopted, confining ourselves to such remedies as appear to be indicated by the blood disease itself. We have to bear in mind that a very short time indeed is necessary to complete organic processes in the blood, and that a change in its con- dition may take place very rapidly. When this point is duly considered there are two circumstances to be deplored; 1. The bent of the public mind to act upon its own rather than on medical judgment, in the earliest stages of disease; 2. The prevailing "homoeopathic" dalliance with this and allied con- ditions. Bleeding is the most important remedy in the early stage of a well-marked attack. The experience of the best observers and the most judicious practitioners of every age has sanctioned it, apart from all theoretical views. A full bleeding arrests at once the molecular activity of the blood, diminishes its temperature, promotes its dilution, calms the action of the heart and lungs, and either prevents the hyperemia of organs, or relieves the stasis of blood which leads to local inflammation. The question of bleeding, its amount, and the pro- priety of its repetition, turn upon the period of the disease and the actual state of the blood. The sur- geons of former times were guided mainly by experience, and among the most judicious, that experience generally led them right. Errors have no doubt been committed up to our own day, and the cultivation of pathological science lias, in a great measure, led to an explanation and appre- ciation of those errors. It is the great rapidity with which changes occur in the blood during its increased molecular activity which has been too frequently overlooked. In the early stage the with- drawal of a portion of the circulating current arrests those destructive processes which deprive it of its red corpuscles. To adopt such a measure after the blood has lost a large portion of its most important morphological element, is to deprive it of its vital powers, and to promote hyperromias, sfases, effusions, and inflammations. Neither, although an inflammation of the blood may have been pro- duced by an acrimony or poison developed in the economy, or introduced from without, is bleeding resorted to for the purpose of evacuating that poison. When an inflammatory commotion of the blood 1081 state supervenes upon an opposite condition, a of liypinosis, which often occurs when poisons and acrimonies are absorbed in low states of the system, or in chronic constitutional affec- tions attended with a low state of vitality of the blood and a diminished amount of fibrine, aa in the paroxysm of gout or of mania, the amount of fibrine will be relatively increased, and the buffy coat may form, but bleeding is contraindicated or must be resorted to with caution. When, on the other hand, the blood becomes inflamed in subjects ■ otherwise healthy, bleeding is indicated to check a morbid process and to prevent ulterior changes; more particularly, to prevent or arrest hypersemias, exudations, and coagulation during life; to prevent arrest of blood in the heart and other viscera, and thereby to maintain its uninterrupted circulation throughout the most extreme parts; and to_ pre- vent the blood itself running into a hydrsemic, or spanamic, or pyemic condition; in other words, to prevent local inflammations, dropsies, purulent de- posits, typhoid diseases, or rapid sinking from coagulation in the heart or vessels. With or without bleeding, abstinence from animal food and all stimulating substances, with plentiful dilation, is indicated for the purpose of moderating the vital activity of the blood and increasing the secretions, and where the_ inflam- mation depends on an acrimony or poison, for the purpose of promoting the evacuation^ of such poison from the system. Saline medicines are administered with the same intent, many of these determining to particular secreting organs. Antidotes, and medicines possessed of special elec- tive affinities, are also frequently indicated. The laws which regulate the action of foreign sub- stances received into the blood, are however treated of under another head. (See art. Blood, Coag- ULATIONj! OF, DURING LlFE; HYPEREMIA; IN- FLAMMATION; Plethora; ToxiBMiA.)] Henry Ancell, HYPERPLASIA, see Hypertrophy. HYPERTROPHY (yirep, and rpocpru signi- fying an excess of nutrition). This term ought to be restricted to cases, in which a part, though increased in bulk, retains its natural organisation and structure. It is one of the most common eft'ects of increased activity in the nutrition of tex- tures and organs ; and likewise one, which may give rise to the most diversified functional disturb- ance. It cannot always, however, be regarded as a disease. The mere increase of size of a part, unattended with change of structure, or the inter- ruption or disorder of any function by such hyper- trophy, cannot be considered as a morbid aifeetion. Thus, hypertrophy in a muscle of animal life is not a disease ; but, in the heart, it becomes one of the most serious. (See Andral, Anat. Pathol, t. i. p. 166.) It can hardly come under the denomin ation of a disease, until it interferes with the regular and complete accomplishment of a function. As one of the most distinguished modern patholo- gists observes, "That the increased anonual de- velopment of an organ, or tissue, denominated hypertrophy, depends essentially on an excess of the nutritive function, appears to be suflicicntly demonstrated by the presence, on the one hand, of an increase of bulk, and the absence, on the other, of any adventitious solid, or fluid substance. The organisation and structure remaining unal- tered, is also further evidence, that the increase of