quire more explanation hereafter. (See what is presently said on ]\rortificalion,) Nor are the cases, to which reference is made, meant to affect the general truth of the observation, delivered by the most experienced surgeons of every age, that, when a limb is extensively swelled and inflamed, with_ a part of it cither in a state of spreading mortification, or ready to become gangrenous, the period is so _ unfavourable for amputation, that very few patients, so circumstanced, ever recover after the operation. Nor is it meant to be insinu- ated, that, in the very cases, which form excep- tions to the general rule of not amputating before the tendency to gangrene has ceased, the patient might not have had an infinitely better chance of his life, had the operation been done immediately after the first receipt of the injmy, before any dis- position to gangrene had had time to be produced. [The period at which amputation may most ad- vantageously be performed has been a subject of discussion among surgeons for a period of nearly a century, the majority being in favour of immediate or primary amputation, (agreeing, therefore, in the doctrines of Mr. Pott, which have been just quoted,) while others, among whom may be men- tioned Hunter and Abernethy, have advocated delay. M. Boucher, in a memoir addi-essed to the French Academy, defined three periods for opera- tion, 1. The period between the receipt of the injury and the appearance of the inflammatory symptoms. 2. When the inflammatory action has commenced, and is more or less capable of disturb- ing the animal economy. 3. When the violence of the inflammatory symptoms and symptomatic fever have abated ; that is, when the suppurative stage is fully established. This division of periods has been sanctioned and adopted by Mr. Guthrie and also by Mr. Rutherford Alcock. The first and tliird, it will be seen, correspond to the first and second of Mr. Pott, the second is a further subdivision and is intermediate between the otlier two. _ Mr. Alcock considers this further distinction an important one, and he proposes the terms jmmari/, intermediary, and secondary, to designate the ope- rations performed at the three several periods. He considers that the intermediary "differ greatly from the others in the principal circumstances which are held to influence the propriety of the amputation and its result, and ought neither to be classed with the primary of the first class, or the secondary of the third." {Medical Hist, of the Spanish Legion, IS.'JS, p. CO.) This intermediate period IS unquestionably the most unfavourable of the three, and Sir G. Ballingall observes, that "as It is a period which no one advocates or adopts from choice, a period, in short, in which amputations are looked upon as compulsory and undertaken with reluctance, their number is not likely to be great, and the main question comes again to lie between primary and secondary operations." {nii- litary Surg. ed. 5, 18,55, p. 424.) It is desirable, however, that these intermediate cases should bo distinguished from the other two cl.nsses, in estimating results, or they will lead to erroneous deductions. Looking upon them as compulsory operations, they should be excluded altogether from the calculation, in estimating the comparative merits of the primary and secondary periods, properly so called. It is from the experience of military surgeons 49 AMPUTATION that the principal deductions in favour of primary amputations, as compared with secondary, have been drawn. There is, however, a considerable difference between military and civil surgery in this respect, the contrast between the results of primary and secondary amputations being by no means so well marked in the latter as in the former._ According to Mr. Alcock, "The same proportion no longer exists, iia3', is not seldom re- versed :" and Sir G. Ballingall says, " Upon this point I have had as good opportunity of ibrniing an opinion as most of my contemporaries, having now served thirteen years in the former, and nearly thirty in the latter. In civil hospitals the comparative success of primary amputation has been by no means so great as that which I was accustomed to see and to hear of in the armj-. Sanson, who has noticed this fact, has assigned several reasons obviously leading to a different re- sult ; and amongst these, the moral influence of the different circumstances under which a patient is received into a civil and into a military hospital, has always appeared to me one of the most impor- tant. A tradesman, with perhaps an indifterent constitution, and a wife and family dependent on his exertions, is admitted with an injury requiring amputation, which may be the result of an accident originating in intoxication, ignorance, or folly, and by which he finds himself suddenly reduced to misery and dependence : while the soldier, again, with a constitution originally sound, and accus- tomed to contemplate such an accident, loses his bmb in a good cause, under circumstances creditable to himself and duly appreciated by his countrj', from which he is certain of a pension for life." "In addition to the powerful effect which this moral contrast must necessarily produce, there is a physical cause operating, which I believe to be one of the most influential, although one of the least observed. A soldier going from a filthy billet or a crowded barrack room, into a clean well aired and well regulated, military hospital, goes often Irom a worse atmosphere into a better, while a mason or house carpenter accustomed to work all day in the open air, is taken into a large civil hospital constantly occupied with its full comple- ment of patients, and having its atmosphere there- by necessarily vitiated." {Mil. Surg. p. 423 ed 5, J 055.) " i J • Mr. Alcock is likewise in favour of primary amputation, although he does not recommend it quite so exclusively as other military surgeons. In fact, he found, in his own experience while attached to the Spanish Legion, that his pri- mary were not so successful as his secondarv operations ; and he thinks, therefore, that the latter have been too indiscriminately condemned, for a full discussion of the whole subject, the .•cader IS referred to Mr. Alcock s valuable and 1 un'"in T?\ A»>P"'"ti"i (Bee Lance/, cirois have been introduced into both sides of tho a.gunient, and that « Ihe mortality of the secondary lacs l^cen greatly exaggerated, and the dam/ers of the Vnmtry underrated," but that, on the other hand, 1110 advocates for secondary operations havec<|uullv lost Bight of all tho lives lost with and without nperatioii, m the intervening period between the lii-st and twentieth day." {Laned, vol. ii. DMO- P- 292.) Mr. Alcock holds that " i)rimai v