o 0 4 be an excellent application to ulcerated chilblains (Revue Mid. Feb. 1826.) Ulcers of tins kind ii-equently require to be touched with the nitrate of silver, or dressed with a solution of it. Chilblains, attended with sloughing, should be poulticed, till the dead parts are detached. A poultice made of linseed meal and port wine is one of the best. The sores should then be first dressed with some mildly stimulating ointment, such as the unguentura resinre flav£B, or unguentum zmci. With the first of these, in a day or two, a little hydrargyri nitrico-oxydum may be mixed, or lint wetted in Peruvian balsam may be applied ; but the surgeon should not venture on the employment of very irritating applications, till he sees what the parts will bear, and whether such will be requisite at all ; for, were he too bold, immediately he leaves off the poultices, he might bring on slough- ing again. [When there is much fetid discharge a soft layer of cotton wool containing peat charcoal may be applied over the other dressings with great advantage.] T. Spencer Wells. Rees't Cyclopedia, art. Chilblains. Richter's An- fano-siT fler Wundarzn. b. 1. Thomson's Lectures on inlammation, p. 637, &c. Lassus, Pathologie Chirur-^. t. ii. p. 388, &c. Callisen, Systema Chirur- gise Hodierns, vol. i. p. 304, &c. ed. 1798. Pl^rson's Principles of Surgery, p. 153, &c. ed 1808. M. J. Chelius, Handb. der Chir. b. i. p. 72. Heidelb. 1826. [CHLOROSIS (from x^^P^^; paleness, yel- lowish-green).] [This disease is treated of fully by medical writers, but surgical cases occur in chlorotic subjects, and the morbid condition of the blood influences their course and treatment. In chlorosis, the proportion of the solid consti tuents of the blood is diminished, owing to a de- crease in the number of the red corpuscles. The proportion of albumen in the liquor sanguinis, m almost every case, is above the standard of health ; the proportion of fibrin being about the same as in health, and accordingly large in relation to the red corpuscles and to the sum of the solid consti- tuents. Owing to the two latter qualities the blood is more viscid than natural. This condition commences insidiously, and may progress until the red corpuscles are reduced even to a third of the healthy standard. In one case, Andral found the cypher 38-7 ; it very frequently sinks from 127 to below 50 parts in 1000 of blood. It has been observed as low as 27. The corpuscles are also paler than natural, smaller, and many of them lose their proper form {Andral). On sepa- rating the fibrin by whipping, it is generally found somewhat less dense and consistent than usual, but the clot, although small, and sometimes soft, may yet be normal in consistence, and is occasion- ally even firmer than natural; it frequently presents a buffv coat, and is sometimes cupped. The serum is usually abundant, transparent and very pale, or of a greenish-yellow hue. Blood drawn from a vein has been observed to be white ( Vun Sivieten Com. Aph. 2.?). A great number of predisposing and exciting causes are enumerated by medical writers. It ir met with most frequently in the lymphatic tempera ment; in young girls about the age of puberty, bu occasionally at other periods of life, and rarely in the male sex; it occurs also in tlioae of sedentary habits, who indulge excessively in the use of dilute fluids, and are subject to nervous exhaustion from the depressing passions and other CHLOROSIS. influences. Although chlorosis often follows haiinor- rhage, occurring insidiously, as it does other causes of debility and exhaustion, it is not produced by the loss or expenditure of blood, it is rather a defect of assimilation and of the organisation of red corpuscles. All the assigned causes more or less directly in- fluence the processes of hjematosis ; either those constituting the primary digestion and essential to the formation of a nutritive pabulum for the supply of liquor sanguinis, or those constituting the chemico- vital metamorphoses and transpositions by which the chyle poured into the liquor sanguinis is cor- pusculated and converted into red blood. Their modus operandi has not been made out, but the assimilation of iron from the food appears to be essentially at fault, and the formation of hsmatin affected. "Although food he taken and converted into chyle, the chyle does not pass through its stages into red blood." {Van Swieten.) The general symptoms are, deficient or depraved appetite, often with a craving for unwholesome diet, and sometimes nausea and vomiting ; costiveness ; pale urine ; amenorrhosa or scanty pale menstrua- tion from deficiency of red blood ; blood flowing from a vessel produces a pale stain; the countenance and skin are at first pale, then often waxy, and subsequently assume a greenish-yellow tint ; the conjunctiv£e, lips, gums, tongue, and mucous mem- branes generally are pallid ; the eyelids livid. As the disease advances, the soft solids become flaccid ; the pulse is soft and weak ; the tongue is pale, flabby, and often indented at the edges by the teeth. The viscidity of the blood, and the weakness of its moving powers, renders its motion in the capil- lary vessels languid, and there is a tendency to con- gestion and obstruction ; and also to oedema, par- ticularly in the face, tongue, and ankles; with dimi- nished temperature of the surface general!}-, and cold extremities. Among the most constantly ob- served symptoms are also languor, listlessness, debility and torpor, an indisposition to bodily and mental exertion, great lassitude from the least motion, with dyspnoea, vertigo, palpitation of the heart, and disturbed sleep, pain in the head and side, and other nervous symptoms, most of which are referrible to the morbid condition of the blood, and particularly to the deficiency of red corpuscles ; hut chlorosis is often intimately associated with dyspep- sia in various forms, hysteria, amenorrhaa, anaemia, and hydr«;mia, the two latter being among its most serious complications. There is a deficiency of biliary matter formed in the blood, the greenish- yellow hue being attributable to the retention of yellow and blue colouring matter in the liquor san- guinis. The diagnosis is sometimes aided by the exis- tence of a bruit da soufflet, which may be either arterial or venous, or both ; although the occurrence of this bruit does not correspond with a definite degree of diminution of corpuscles, it was fomid by Andral as a constant symptom when the cypher ranged below 80 ; when above 00, it often existed, but was no longer constant ; being most frequently heard when the cypher oscillated between 80 and 100, and much less frequently when it passed 100. Its intensity also, and whether intermittent or con- tinuous, is, in some measure, subordinate to the degree of dimlmition of tlio corpuscles. The ar- terial and vdiibns murmurs of chlorosis and other diseases of impoverished blood are sometimes asso- ciated with themurmurs produced by organic disease,