149 ANEURISM. On the Diseases of Arteries and Veins, p. 66, 68 See also G. Andral, Precis d'Altai. Pathol, t. ii, p. 361.) So far as Kreysig's information extend nobody before Mr. Hodgson had examined the structure of an aneurismal sac in this accurate manner, viz. by maceration, and the results, h thinks, are not liable to the slightest objections, (See the German Transl. of Mr. Hodgson s Wor, loith Notes ly Kreijsig and Kobenvein, p. 109, Hanover, 1817.) Mr. Hodgson has seen this partial dilatation in almost all the arteries which are subject to aneu rism, at the divisions of the carotids and iliacs, in the arteries of the brain, &c. ; and he agrees with Dr. Baillie {Morbid Ajiaiomy, <5-c.), Laen- nec (Cerattius, Beschreib. d. Krankh. Preparate d. A nut. Theatres zii Leipz. p. 408, 8vo. 1819) and others, that aneurisms, at the origin of the aorta, are generally formed by dilatation of the coats of the vessel. "Partial as well as general dilatation (says Mr. Hodgson) frequently precedes the formation of aneurism in the arteries of the extremities. A gentleman had a large aneurism in the thigh which had undergone a spontaneous cure. Upon examining the limb after" death, the popliteal ar- tery was found to be thickened and covered with calcareous matter. A small pouch, which would have contained the seed of an orange, originated from the side of this artery. This little sac was evidently formed by a dilatation of the coats of the vessel. A man died from the slouching of an aneurism in the ham ; in the femoral artery there was a small aneurism, about as large as a walnut. The external coat was dissected from the surface of the tumor to a considerable extent. The internal and middle coats were evidently di- lated, and contributed to the formation of the sac. The dilatation of these coats was gradual, and they continued for a considerable distance to form the sac, when they were inseparably blended with the surrounding parts." (Op. cit. p. 70.) In one par- ticularly interesting case of popliteal aneurism re- corded by Breschet, where the internal coat, and in part also the fibrous, could be traced over the swelling, there was likevvise an aortic aneurism, ex- tending from the heart to four inches above the bi- furcation of the aorta, where the swelling ended in an abrupt and circular manner. The middle and external tunics were perfectly healthy; and the in- ternal, with the cellular tissue around it, alone dis- eased. In fact, when the lining of the artery was removed at the points where any morbid alterations were seen, these were also taken away, and the fibrous tunic left unchanged. In the limb, indeed, where the popliteal aneurism existed, all the arteries were aneurismal, and afforded most convincing evi- dence of all their coats contributing to the dilata- tions. (See lirescliet, Mem. CInr. sur diffirentes Especes d'Aneurysines, p. 40, &c.) While Mr. A. Burns bears testimony to the fidelity and accuracy of Scarpa's general detail, he adds, that perhaps it may not be uniformly found, that " the root of an aneurism never includes the whole circumference of the tube of an artery." We have, says he, a preparation in which the re- verse has taken place. In this case, the whole cylinder of the vessel, from the heart to beyond the curvature, is equally dilated ; and dilated to such an extent, that the tumor measures no less than ten inches in circumference. Scarpa limits dilatation, says Mr. Burns, to that state of an artery in which the coats remain in their natural relation to each other, and in which tiiey are not altered in their texture, nor lined on their inner surface with "polypous layers." "This, how- ever, was not the case in the instance which I have brought forward. In it you have seen that the coats were much dilated, and also very much al- tered in their structure. Externally and inter- nally, they had assumed the look of the membranes of the foetus, only they were thicker and denser, but they were equally gelatinous, and nearly as transparent ; and, on their inner surface, they were crusted over with lamina; of coagulated lymph. By peeling off this incrustation, after the sac had been inverted, we saw plainly, that, al- though the internal coats were, round the complete cylinder of the vessel, much diseased, and consi- derably dilated, yet they were not dilated in the same degree as the external coverings of the ar- tery. At irregular distances, longitudinal rents were formed in the fibrous coats, and these chasms were filled with coagulating lymph. The internal coats, over the whole circumference of the vessel, had assumed the diseased condition which in aneu- ism is generally confined to a part of the cylinder. In this tumor, all the coats continued for a time to dilate equally; but at length the internal gave way, forming longitudinal rents, through which the external coats could be seen, after the lymph- atic coating had been scraped olf. In this in- tance, had the sac been dissected in the earlj' stage, it would have presented precisely the same appearances as those described by Dr. Monro, and the one (the aneurism) lately examined by the surgical editor of the London Med. Revieio." Mr. Burns afterwards expresses doubts, whether the sac ever acquires a large size without dilata- tion. The case reported in the latter periodical work was the largest that he knew of, in which all the coats were found uniformly dilated. The sac, which was as large as the fist, was lined throughout with flakes of bone; and though the internal coat of the vessel was thus patched, and extremely thin and brittle, it did not, on minute inspection, any where exhibit a solution of continuity. Mr. A. Burns further states, that the above case, reported by himself, was the only one, out of fourteen, which did not corroborate Scarpa's description. (On Diseases of the Heart, cje. p. 204.) Mr. Wilson, after mentioning the frequency of aneu- rism in the aorta, carotid, subclavian, and axillary arteries, and its rarity in the brachial, tells us, that he knows of no example of aneurism below the elbow, where the swelling could not be traced to a wound of the coats of the arterj'. He adds that true aneurism has not inifrequently occurred' • 1 the internal and external iliac arteries, in the mguinal, ienioral, and very frequently in the pop- teal. It has taken place in the posterior tibial artery, but he knows of no instance of it in the anterior tibuil or peroneal arteries. "I h-ne (says he) met with only one instance of true aneurism allecting any of the branches of the aorta, which are distributed to the abdominal iscera. In the year 180.'), on i body of a S " thi; iitmi, 111 tiiiuur, sjiapc, ana size, appoaiVvi w hang down from the under surface of the left lobe of the liver. When this tumor I- 3 nspecting the body of a clergyman, in the presence of the late Sir. W. Farquhar, a tumor, very niucli resembling the heart in colour, shape, and size, appeared to was opened, and