608 EAR. for the vibrations of sound, or else an increased sensibility of the nerve, all the internal ear being in other respects right. Amongst alterations of the conducting parts of the organ, Rosenthal comprehends: 1. A total obliteration of the meatus auditorius externus, its imperforation, or complete absence. These cases may almost always be detected by a superficial examination, the patient only hearing when some solid bodies are placed between his teeth, while his dull perception of sounds does not appear to be much lessened when the ear is covered. 2. Diseases of the cavity of the tympanum, as inflammation of its membranous lining, caries of its parietes, or collections of blood, pus, or other fluid, in its cavity. Rosenthal thinks there can be no doubt, that inflammation and .suppuration in the tympanum are much more frequent than is gener- ally supposed, the former affection being often mis- taken for a slight attack of rheumatism. In dis- secting aged subjects, he has frequently found the membrane of the tympanum thickened and opaque, and he could only impute this appearance to pre- vious inflammation. After detailing a case illustrative of the sym- ptoms of inflammation within the tympanum, and a few observations on caries and collections of fluid in the cavitj', Rosenthal notices the Itardness of hearing, connected willi nervous irrilability, in the treatment of which case, he insists upon tlie advan- tage that would result from a knowledge of the particular species of morbid excitement prevail- ing in the patient. But, as nothing very certain can be made out on this point, and only conjectures can arise from dissections of bodies, that the aifec- tion consists either in a determination of blood to the part, or in a partial paralysis of the auditory nerve, the exact nature and form of which are quite incomprehensible, it is absolutely necessary to attend solely to the diagnosis of the nervous affec- tion in general. This diagnosis will be facilitated, 1st, If the patient has been previously very sensible to the impression of certain tones, or sound in general ; 2ndly, If the power of hearing has been lost all on a sudden, without any mark of inflam- mation ; 3rdly, If the affection coincides with other nervous disorders. 3. Alteration or Diminution of Heariiig.— Between the most perfect hearing, congenital or acquired, and this point of diminution of the fa- culty of hearing, Rosenthal observes, there are a great many degrees, the cause of which is the most difficult to comprehend, as the circumstances of structure, which enable every part to perform its functions with freedom and perfection, are not yet made out. If, says he, it wore in our power to determine what is truly the regular structure of each part, we should tlien be furnished with a means of judging correctly of the anomalies of function, the changes in which would be indicated quite as clearly, as in the eye, by shades of or- ganisation, absolutely in the same way as we judge of the modifications, which the image of ob- jects must undergo at the bottom of tiie ocular mirror, by the greater or less convexity of the cornea, or lens, or the consistence of the otlier humours. In the present state of physiological and patho- logical knowledge of the ear, therefore, Rosenthal conceives, that little can bo attempted with re- spect to a scientific classification of these cases of altered, or diminished hearing. As the cavity of the tympanum and its contents are the parts which have principal influence over the intensity of sound, and a great share in the propagation of articulated sounds, their faulty condition must here be chiefly the subject for consideration. And, amongst their numerous defects, traced by dis- section, and already specified in the foregoing columns, Rosenthal particularly calls the attention of the reader, 1. To alterations of the membrane of the tympanum, whether proceeding from congenital malformation, or situation, or from thickening, ossification, perforation, or laceration of the same part. 2. The lodgment of fluid in the cavity of the tympanum, more frequently produced, than is com- monly supposed, by obstruction of the Eustachian tube. In most new-born infants, Rosenthal has also found the cavity of the tympanum filled with a thick, almost gelatinous fluid, which for some days is not absorbed, and is probably the cause of the indifference, evinced by new-born childi-en, to sounds, which are even so intense as to be offen- sive to the ears of an adult. 3. Alterations of the membrane of the fenestra rotunda, such as its imperfect formation, or errone- ous situation, its thickened state, &c. Mr. Toynbee has given ample details of the pathological conditions of the ear. But, it is remarked by Rosenthal, that as the difference in the intensity of sound may occasion a modi- fication in the sensations of the ear, the merely conducting parts of the auditory apparatus must not be forgotten, as the external ear and the meatus auditorius externus, which regulate the quantity of sonorous waves striking the auditory nerve. How- ever, the malformations of the meatus and the state of the ceruminous secretion within it, are observed by Kritter and Lentin (Ueber das schwere GeJior, 1. xix. Leipz. 1794) to have more effect on the hear- ing, than defects of the auricle itself, the whole of which, as we have stated, may be lost without any material deafness being produced. Lastlj', Rosen- thal calls our attention to the nervous action, or influence, which, whether too much raised, or de- pressed, may equally render the hearing dull ; and some useful information may for the most part be derived from attending to the patient's general sensibility. Geo. Pilcher. See Journ. Compli^m. t. vi. p. 21, &c. Duverney, De rOrgane de I'Ouie, 12mo. 1683. P. Kenncdp, A Treatise on the Eye, and on some of the Diseases of the Ear, 8vo. Lond. 1713. A. D. Dicticrt, QuKstio, &c. an absque Membranoe Tynipani Apertura topica injiei in Concham possint, Paris, 1748. Leschcvin, M^m. sur laThtforie des Maladies de I'Oreille, et sur les Moyens que la Chirurgie pent employer pour leur Curation, in Prix de I'Acad. deChir. t. ix. p. Ill, &c. ^d. 12mo. /. B. Arnemaiin, BemerKungen tlDer (tie lJurcliborung- des Processus Mnstoidcus in gewissen Fallen der'i'aubheit, 8vo. GOtt. 1792. G. li. Trampd, Von den Kranklieiten des Olires, in Arnemann's Ma- gazin fiir die Wundarzneiwissenschaft, b. ii. p. 17, &c. 8vo. GOtt. 1798. Richcranil, Nosogr. Chir. t. ii. p. 135, &c. (jdit. 4. A. Cooper, in the Phil. Trans, for 1802. Saunders, On the Anatomy and Diseases of the Kar, 1806. Dcsmonceau.v, Traitd des Maladies des Yeux et des Orcillcs, 2 torn. Svo. Paris, 1806. Lmsi/s, Pathologic Chirurgicale, t. i. p. 84, ^dit. 1809. M . Wriqht, An Essay on the Human Ear, its Anatomical Structure, and incidental Coniplniiits, svo. L"')!'.- 1817. Diet, des Sciences M^d. art. Oreille, t. xxxvni. 8vo. Paris, 1819. Rosenthal, Essai (1'uiie Patliologie (le POigane de POuie, in Jourii. Compldincnlnire du Diet, des Sciences McM. t. vi. p. 17, Svo. Pans, 1820.