DISLOCATION gaigne met with'a dislocation of the four first me- tatarsal bones, caused by the fall of a horse upon the patient s foot. The three first metatarsal bones were dislocated downwards, but the fourth was partially displaced upwards. The internal border of the foot was shortened nearly half an inch, showing that there was overlapping of the bones to a like extent. The vertical diameter of the foot was increased by about four-fifths of an inch. In this case reduction was impossible, so far as re- garded the three first metatarsal bones, but the fourth was pressed downwards into its place. In course of time, however, this patient compietely recovered the use of his foot. Dislocations of all the metatarsal bones. — The entire metatarsus has been seen dislocated from the tarsus in four different directions—upwards, down- wards, outwards, and inwards. The upward dislo- cation is by far the most frequent, for out of twelve examples, to which M. Malgaigne refers, there were eight dislocations upwards, one downwards, two outwards, and one inwards. Only one of the twelve was a compound dislocation. _ Dislocation upivards.—ln the dislocation upwards It sometimes happens that the first metatarsal bone 38not dislocated from the internal cuneiform, but the internal cuneiform is separated from the scaphoid and is dislocated upwards with the metatarsus. Mr! R. W. Smith first called attention to this form of dislocation, and has given a detailed account of the dissection of two cases of this kind; according to M Malgaigne, four out of the eight cases of dislocation upwards presented this peculiarity. Mr. Smith thinks the internal cuneiform bone is more likely to remain connected with the first metatarsal bone than with the scaphoid, in consequence of the strong connection maintained between it and the first metatarsal by means of the tendons of the peroneus longus and tibialis anticus; each of which tendons^ having an attachment to each of the bones in question, must constitute a powerful means of preventing their separation from one another. In these dislocations the prominence of the tarsus on the dorsum of the foot is easily made out, and the projection of the tarsus downwards is usually also to be distinguished. The anterior part of the foot is shortened more or less, according to the ex tent to which the bones overlap each other. The form of the prominence on the dorsum of the foot will enable the surgeon to distinguish whether the case is a pure dislocation of the metatarsus, or whether the internal cuneiform is included in the displacement. The two cases dissected by Mr. Smith were instances of old unreduced dislocation; Jn both the plantar region, instead of presenting its natural concavity, was convex, both in the antero-posterior and transverse diameters; the sole of the foot was directed inwards, and its outer border, in standing and walking, was presented to the ground. A like tendency to inversion of the loot has been observed in other cases. The only case in which the dislocation was compound was observed by M. Mazet. Here the limb was am- putated, and its condition was afterwards carefully examined. The three middle metatarsal bones were dislocated upwards on to the tarsus, but the mtn was thrown outwards from the cuboid, and rotated so that its internal surface looked upwards, frnn, .if metatarsal was dislocated inwards "Tora the mternal cuneiform. A drawing of this preparation is "given by M. Malgaigne. (See pi. XXX. fig. 6.) o o V Reduction.~ln three cases under MM. Dunuv- tren, Bouchara, and Meynier, the dislocation was easily reduced, by pulling upon the metatarsal bones, and by making pressure also upon their dislocated extremities. All three patients did well ; but in Dupuytren's case, at the end of seven or eight weeks there was still some inconvenience in walking. In a fourth case, under M. Delort reduction was also obtained, but the patient died Irom internal mj uries. In one case, under Dupuy- tren, all attempts at reduction were fruitless, but the patient was not seen by him till three weeks alter the accident. In the two cases recorded bv Mr. R. W, Smith it was not known whether any attempt had been made at the time to reduce the dislocation. In the remaining case, that of M Mazet, the limb was amputated. (See Malqaiqne, Tratte des Fract. t. ii. p. 1077, and R. W. Smith, Un Fractures and Dislocations, p. 224, Dublin 1847.) ' Dislocation downwards. — The only recorded case of dislocation of the metatarsus downwards IS related by Mr. Smyly of Dublin. It hap- pened in a young man, in consequence of the upsetting of a cart which he was driving. He fell so that his right foot got between the shaft and the bank of a ditch, the shaft crushing the heel against the toes, which were fixed by the bank. The foot was at first so swollen that the nature of the acci- dent could not be ascertained, but when the ecchy- raosis was dispersed, the injury became manifest from the projection of the tarsus, the hollow imme- diately in fi-ont of it, with the corresponding pro- jection in the sole, and the shortening of the foot. On the sixth day the dislocation was reduced by means of pulleys. A piece of wood in the form of a sandal, made to fit the sole of the foot, having a heel-piece of leather, with a strap to cross the in- step, retained the bones in their places. Three weeks after the accident the man was suflSciently recovered to use his foot. (See Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Science, May 1854, p. 317.) Dislocation outivards.—Two examples of disloca- tion of the metatarsus outwards have been observed. In one the second metatarsal bone was fractured; in the other, the four outer metatarsal bones were dislo- cated upwards as well as outwards. The manner in which the second metatarsal bone is wedged between the three cuneiform bones would, probably, always prevent this bone being displaced directly outwards with the rest without fracture. In the first case, seen by M. Laugier, the accident was caused by the patient falling from a height in such a manner that the weight of the body came upon the anterior part of the external border of the foot. The toes must, therefore, have been carried inwards, and the base of the metatarsus twisted outwards. The internal cuneiform bone was prominent at the in- ternal border of the foot, and a portion of its an- terior articular surface could be felt; the fifth me- tatarsal bone was in like manner undulj' prominent externally, A fracture of the second metatarsal bone, towards its middle part, could be distin- guished. The reduction was easily^ obtained by making pressure upon the tarsus outwards and the metatarsus inw.ards. The patient recovered favour- ably. In the other case, which is recorded by M. Lacombo, and which occurred in his own person, the accident was caused in a diflferent manner, for