fruit of surgical assistance. (ilfaZ. Cliir. t. iii. p. ostosis ; and I join Boyer, and others, in not con- sidering tliis case as at nil disposed to malignancy. Without having precisely this extreme hardness, however, some exostoses, which are tolerably solid, and in which the natural organisation of bone is • still distinguishable, are capable of undergoing a ■ slight reduction, after the removal of their cause by 1 nature or art. Boyer states that this sometimes happens in a few scrofulous exostoses, and parti- . cularly in such as are venereal, and not of large 1 size. The cellular exostosis of Boyer, the fungous I exostosis of Sir A. Cooper, and the cases which are named osteosarcomata, are the most serious of all, especially when the texture of the bone is con- siderably altered, and the disease is in a state of ulceration. The rapid formation of the disease, the violent shock which it imparts to the consti- tution, and the hectical disturbance which it ex- cites, generally bring the patient into imoiinent danger, and commonly leave no other resoMce but that of amputating the limb. The treatment of exostoses is to be considered in a medical and surgical point of view. When any general cause of the disease is known, or suspected, such cause is to be removed by those means which experience has pi'oved to be most efficacious. Thus Boyer recommends mercurial and antiscrofulous remedies, &c. according to the nature of the case. At the present day, iodine, and the iodide of potassium are frequently pre- scribed. Whatever may be the species of exostosis, or the nature of its cause, relief, says Boyer, may be derived from the outward use of opium, whenever the disease is attended with severe pain. Pie speaks favourably of the application of a linseed- meal poultice, mixed with a decoction of the leaves of nightshade and henbane, to which a strong solu- tion of opium has been added. But he thinks that an antiphlogistic plan, with bleeding, is hardly ever admissible, because it weakens the patient too much in so tedious a disease, and can only be a palliative, incapable of curing, or preventing, the ravages of the disorder. When there is no pain, or it has been appeased, during or after any general method of treatment, the surgeon may try resolvent applications, particularly soap, and mercurial plasters, the tincture or ointment of iodine, the liniment of ammonia, bathing in water containing a small quantity of soda, or potassa, hydro-sulphuretted washes, &c. It must be con- fessed, however, that the progress of exostoses can sc.'ircely ever be checked by any general methodi- cal treatment. The muriatic and acetic acids have been administered, but without effect; nor am I acquainted with any remedies wliich possess effi- cacy, except iodine and mercury, which last we know will rarely answer, except in cases of nodes. In the commencement of any deop-seatcd disease in a bone. Sir A. Cooper thinks that the best me- dicine for internal exhibition is bichloride of mer- cury in small doses, together with the compound de- coction of sarsaparilla. (Sun/icul Essays, part i. p. 16.9.) Boyer is firmly of opinion that, with the ex- ception of recent small exostoses, the nature of which is even doubtful, tlie resolution of such tumours is almost impossible. A slight diminution of the swelling, and its becoming perfectly indolent, are the most favourable changes which can be hoped for, whether they occur spontaneously, or are the 'OSIS. 653 SS4—557.) Blisters have often been applied to the skin over exostoses, and kept open for a long period with savine ointment; but, although they tend to di- minish venereal nodes, after they have been lessened as much as they can be by specific treatment, their efficacy in cases of exostoses has not been consider- able. However, a trial of them in some examples is rational; and Sir Astley Cooper approves both of leeches and blisters, a discharge from the latter being kept up with equal parts of the mercurial and savine ointments. {Surgical Essays, part i. p. 169.) When non-malignant exostoses merely occasion a deformity, and no pain, nor inconvenience, from the pressure which they produce on the neigh- bouring parts, it is certainly most advisable not to undertake any operation for their removal ; for, as Boyer has truly observed, in by far the greater number of instances the local affection is, much less to be dreaded than the means used for re- moving it. Caustics and the cautery have occasionally been applied to exostoses ; but they mostly do mischief, Boyer mentions a woman, in whom some caustic was applied to an exostosis at the inside of the tibia; but which, instead of removing the tumor, caused a necrosis, of which she was not well two years afterwards. In a few instances, however, after the removal of cartilaginous exostoses, of the interior of a bone with cutting instruments, the application of, the cautery has prevented a repro- duction of the diseased mass, as we find exempli- fied in a case recorded by Sir Astley Cooper, where such a disease of the jaw was thus extir- pated. {Surgical JEssays, part i. p. 158.) The bold and successful manner, also, in which the hydatid exostosis of the head was attacked with the saw, caustics, and the actual cautery, by Mr. R. Keate, is particularly entitled to the attention of the surgical practitioner. {Med. Chir. Trans. vol. X. p. 288, &c.) I have already noticed the occasional cure of true exostoses, not malignant ones, by an accidental attack of necrosis. Mr. Travers, aware of this important fact, has sug- gested the practice of removing the periosteum in some cases, for the purpose of producing the death and exfoliation of the swelling, or a part of it, when circumstances render some attempt to get rid of it urgently necessary. So far as my information extends, no attempts to stop the progress, and effect the cure of a finigous or malignant exostosis, by tying the main artery of the limb, has ever yet succeeded. Two cases, proving the inefficiency of this practice, are detailed by Sir A. Cooper. (Vol. cit. p. 170.) As the fungous exostosis of {lie medullary viem- hrane is evidently connected with a state of the constitution analogous to what prevails in fungus haimatodes (see iUs word), the permanent success of amputation should never be too boldly pro- mised ; but as no medicines have any material power over the disease, and the operation is the only chance of relief, it ought to be advised. Cartilaginous caosloses of the medullary memhrane may sometimes bo extirpated by removing their outer bony covering, and then cutting away the cartiliiginous matter closely from the bony surface to which it is attached. Sometimes, as I have noticed, those measures are followed by the use of the actual cautery.