AMAUROSIS 26 One of the most common symptoms of incipient amaurosis, is an appearance in the patient's fancy, as if gnats or flies were flying about before his eyes. {Visus Mttscarum, Myodesopsia.) Some- times transparent, dark-strealced, circular, or ser- pentine diminutive bodies appear as if flying in oreater or lesser numbers before the eyes, often suddenly ascending, and as quickly falling down again, and chiefly annoying the patient and con- fusing his sight when he looks at strongly illumi- nated or while objects. The substances, thus ap- pearing to fly about before the patient's eyes, are termed Miisc(B politantes ; Mouclies volantes. {Beer, Lehre, 4-c. b. ii. p. 424.) If what obstructs the sight be a single black speck, it receives the name of scotoma. Sometimes the muscce are not moveable, but fixed and constant in their position, in which case they will indicate that certain definite portions of the retina have become insensible to ligjjt, while the floating or moveable nnisca: are merely symptom- atic and form no part of the disease itself. This illusive perception of various substances being in rapid motion before the eye, gradually increases; the substances themselves become less and less transparent, and, at length, are so con- nected together that they form a kind of network, or gauze, by which all objects are more or less obscured. This is another symptom of amaurosis, technically called visus reticulatus. The network commonly has the peculiarity of being black in very light situations, or when white substances are before the eye; while, in dark places, it is quite shining, and, as it were, of a bluish white hue, like silver, though sometimes of a red-yellow, golden colour. . • II Sometimes, in the early stage of amaurosis, all objects seem covered with a dense mist {vtsns nehidosus), and this mist may appear for a day or two of a light gray colour, and then for_ another day or two very black, everything appearing as it looked at through a dense sooty smoke, {Beer, Leliro von den AvgenkrmMeiten, b, ii. pp. 42-— 426.) A not uncommon symptom of imperfect araau rosis is the patient's seeing every object mdistinctly in a rainbow-like, sometimes tremulous, and gene- rally very dazzling light; while, in the dark espe- cially, blue or yellow flashes, or fiery balls seem suddenly to pass before his eyes when the eyelids are shut, and excite considerable alarm. {Visus lucidus; Marmorme HippocraUs; Pkolopsia.) To an eye affected with imperfect amaurosis all objects frequently appear indistinct, but double. ( Visus dnplicaius: Diplopia.) When the disease comes on gradually, the patient sometimes sees double, with both eye?. In other cases, double vision only occurs when the patient looks at objects with both eyes, and it ceases as soon as he shuts either the diseased or the sound eye. In the last of these ciicumst.ances, double vision originates from the deviation of the unsound eye from the axis of sight; but, in the first instance, it arises from the morbid state of the retina itself of the diseased eye. A degree of eauinting, slrahismus, therefore, is a common symp- tom of incipient amaurosis, particularly when only one eve is affected; for this always deviates more or less from the axis of vision. It is owing Vo this loss of correspondence, that persons aflected with an imperfect amaurosis of one eye, often mis- take the relative distance of objects, and frequently see them reflected. (Travers's Synopsis, p. 170.) Beer has often met with patients labouring under imperfect amaurosis, who could plainly distinguish all objects which were not very small; but saw them of a difi'erent colour from their real one; for instance, yellow, green, purple, &c. ( Vis-us color- aius, chnipsia.) He had under his care an amau- rotic woman, who at mid-day coidd discern even the smallest objects in a strong light, but they all appeared yellow, though no marks of jaundice were perceptible. Sometimes in the early stage of amaurosis, all objects appear distorted, bent, shortened, and, in rarer instances, inverted. { Visus disjiguratus ; Me- lamorphosia.) Thus the flame of a candle appears very long, but all awry. This is said by Beer to be constantly an unfavourable omen, as the cause of it lies in the brain itself. Imperfect amaurosis is sometimes attended with considerable shortsightedness (Myopia), and some- times with the opposite affection (.Presbyopia). Many patients, when first attacked with amau- rosis, everywhere testify a partiality to a great quantity of light, employing several candles at night, and sitting in the day-time with their backs against a sunshiny window, in order to let what- ever they are reading have a very strong light upon In some cases, however, the sensibility of the retina may be so augmented, that the pa^'f"* shuns all light places, particularly those in which the light is strongly reflected into the eye, and, m order yet to discern in some measm-e large objects, he feels himself obliged always to seek shady^ darkish situations, or to screen his eyes, out of doors, with a green shade or green glasses. This state is termed intolerance of light. {PhotopJiobia.) The amaurosis with morbid irritability of the retina and photophobia, is described by Beer as commencing with a peculiar sensation of fulness m the eyeball, joined with continually increasing, violent, and annoying luminous appearances, and a remiukable weakness of sight. These symptoms are soon followed by a stupifying, constantly in- creasing headache, during which the power of vision manifestly diminishes, without the slightest defect being perceptible, either in the eye itself or its surrounding parts. The patient, however, is always of an athletic constitution, or has symptoms of general or local plethora, or a phlogistic diathesis. This observation coincides with the view which 1 entertain of this part of the subject, namely, that the amaurosis beginning with irritability of the organ and photophobia, originates generally from an inflammatory aftection of the retina. In the amaurosis originating with symptoms ot weakness and diminished irritability the sight is cloudy, and the patient finds that he can see better in a li-'ht than a dark situation. He feels as if some dirt, or dust, were upon his eyes, and is m the habit of frequently wiping them. His power of vision is greater alter meals than at the time o fasling. His ^igl't is al^'«y« P'"'""'' time after the external use of tonic remedies, such as han horn, cold water, &c. K.chter informs us 0 a p son who was nearly blind, but constantly ab e to see very well, for the space of an horn-after drinking champagne. , ""^"^'^^f/"""""f entirely bereft of sight, who was in the habit of having it restored again, for half an hour, whenever she walked a quick pace up and down her garden,