G03 HEAD, IiNfJURIES OF TUB. slight rose colour, had become all but limpid, and much increased in quantity, so that, when the pa- tient was lying on the rislit side, tlie concha of the left ear was filled with fluid; the pillow-case was extensively stained with the fluid which had run from the ear. On the sixth day the watery dis- charge continued; it was clear, but suspended in it was a thick puriform-looking secretion, which contained lymph and pus cells. This after a time wholly ceased. He sank sixteen days after the accident. The fracture was found to have traversed the petrous portion of the temporal bone, across the superior semicircular canal: it had crossed the cavitas tympani, and the membrana tympani was torn from its connection. The tympanum was filled with lymph of a reddish colour, and in several places pus was detected between the bones. (^Hewctt, loc. cit.) These cases are highly interesting as showing the course of the fracture through the tympanum, and the probable source of the fluid. What is the nature of this fluid ? There are three opinions on this subject. The first is that the fluid is nothing more than the serum of the blood; the second, that it is an escape of the agwa labi/rintld of Cotunnius ; and the third, that it is true cerebro-spinal fluid. The first opinion is advocated by Laugier, who attributed it to an escape of the serum separated from a clot after extravasation. Chassaignac, deriving it from the same source, endeavours to account for it on the hj^pothesis that it is the watery portion of the venous blood contained in the sinuses near the seat of fracture; but the fluid is quite different from the serum of the blood, and therefore these theories cannot be supported. That some of the thin watery fluid which escapes under the circum- stances mentioned is occasionally due to the secre- tion from the lining membrane of the labyrinth, we would not deny; but there can be no doubt that the quantity is far too copious to be derived wholly from this source, nor can we always trace the frac- ture through the labyrinth of the ear. so as clearly to make out the true course of the fluid from the inner to the middle ear. Indeed, there can be no doubt that the fluid is mainly, if not wholly, de- rivable from the sub-arachnoid space, and is really true cerebro-spinal fluid. The notion that the fluid is from the sub-arachnoid space has been sup- ported by M. Robert, M. Chatin, is advocated by Mewett and most other surgeons, and appears to me confirmed by the experiment of Hilton. M. Chatin has analysed the fluid, and finds it identical in chemical composition with the cerebro-spinal fluid; it contains very little albumen, and a large quan- tity of chloride of sodiimi. M. Robert fractured the base of a skull after death by means of a chisel and mallet, thus imitating the course of a fracture through the tympanum; the cerebro-spinal fluid immediately escnpud, and the discharge became continuous and copious as soon as the head was made to hang over the table. We abridge Hilton's observations on this subject:—"The escape of the cerebro-spinal fluid does not always take place through the external ear, for, if the membrana tym- pani is intact, the fluid may find its way through the Eustachian tube into the mouth; and if after a dilfused blow on the skull you observe ha;mo- rrhage from one or both ears, with no externa lesion, you may be almost certain you have a case of fractured base before you. But if, further, you observe s clear fluid running from the externa! ear, or trickling down the pharynx, you may at once regard this as pathognomonic of fracture of the cranial base." {Hilton, On the Cranium, p. 62.) Hilton performed the following experiment: — " A boy, who had sustained a severe injury of the head, was admitted into Gny's Hospital. He presented the ordinary signs of fractured base, and a small quantity of thin clear fluid was seen oozing from his ear. It occurred to me that, if this con- sisted of cerebro-spinal fluid, it ought to escape in much larger quantity on artificially inducing con- gestion of the cerebral circulation. I therefore pressed upon the jugulars, and with the other hand closed the patient's mouth and nose, so as to sus- pend the respiratory process for a short time; as I had anticipated, in a few moments the fluid began to flow much more rapidly, so that I was quickly enabled in this way to collect half an ounce of it." {Hilton, On the Cranium.) Hewett and Hilton both trace this fluid very distinctly to the same source, namely, the sub- arachnoid space which is continued by a tubular prolongation into the meatus auditorius internus; this is intersected by the fracture, which also passes across the petrous portion of the temporal bone into the tympanum, the membrane of which is lacerated. A large quantity of thin watery discharge some- times takes place from the nose and mouth in cases of fractured base ; and there is some reason to be- ieve that this also is derived from a similar source as in the preceding cases, namely, the sub-arachnoid space. On this subject Hewett is very explicit, and we quote his observations upon it:—" When- ever carefully examined, the characters of this fluid have been found to be precisely the same as those belonging to the profuse watery discharge from the ear. Whence then does this fluid come , The anatomical disposition of the cerebral membranes in the central parts of the base of the skull is such that a fracture of this region might involve these membranes, and thus account for the enormous quantity of watery fluid observed in some of these cases. Hewett quotes the following case :—" A man 8et. 30 was murderously assaulted and beat about the head; one of the wheels of a cart passed over his head. He was conveyed to the Hospital Beaujon. The eyelids were very much bruised and swollen, the ocular conjunctiva on the left side was extensively infiltrated with blood, and the ej-e- ball was protruded. There was also bleeding from the nose and mouth, and he had just brought up a large quantity of grumous blood. He was almost insensible. On the following day he was somewhat better; but as he was leaning his head over the right side of his bed, a watery discharge was ob- served running from the nose : the fluid, slightly roseate, flowed freely drop by drop, and in less than half an hour ten grammes were collected. Chemically examined, the fluid was found to con- tain but little albumen, and a large amount of chloride of sodium. He died on the night of the fourth day Iti a state of violent delirium, the watery discharge having somewhat diminished. The bodj', when examined after death, had been placed with the face downwards, and thirty grammes of a watery discharge were poured from the nostrils. A fracture was found to have commenced in the right parietal hone, to have passed through the occipital, to have traversed the mastoid and petrous portions of the temporal bone, and thus reached