Bis. of the Urinuri/ Oryans, p. 112.) J lomniferi capsulurumconcisarum, 5 iv.yJ7'«a', Oct.iv. DECOCTUM. Jilss is placed over the scarifications, and when [lie rarilied air in it becomes condensed as it cools, tlie glass is forced down on the skin, and n con- siderable suction takes place. When the operation is about to be done, a basin of warm water', a piece of fine sponge, and a lighted candle, should be provided. As many of the cupping-glasses as may be judged necessary are to be put in the basin. If sixteen or twenty ounces of blood are to be taken awaj', four glasses of a size adapted to the surface to which they are to be applied will generally be required. Each glass is then to be held for an instant over the llamo of the spirit-lamp, and immediately placed upon the skin. Upon the quickness with which tliis is done, the neatness and efficacy of the oper- ation will depend. If dry cupping be only in- tended, the glasses may be allowed to remain nn the skin for a few minutes, and be replaced five or six times, with a little variation of their position, in order to prevent the skin from being hurt by their pressure. If the intention be to scarify and take away blood, the glass ought not to remain more than a minute, when the scarificator is to be instantly applied ; fur by the quickness with which the application of the scarificator succeeds the re- moval of the glass, the patient is saved a degree of pain, which he would otherwise suffer from the making of the punctures. When the glasses are so full as to be in danger of falling off, or the blood is coagulated in them, they should be removed, emptied, and applied again. For the sake of neatness, care should be taken to insert the nail imderthe upper part of the glass, and remove it so as to keep its bottom downwards, the scarifications being at the same time wiped with a sponge wet in warm water. The glasses also, previously to each application, should be rinsed in warm water, but not dried. For other useful directions, see j\fuplesoti^s Treatise, p. 64, &c. Trials have been made of syringes, calculated to cxliaust the air from cupping-glasses ; but the plan is not found so convenient as that above described. A common pledget of lint, or bit of rag, is usually applied as a dressing for the punctures I made with the scarificator, or they may be covered hy a piece of adhesive or soap plaster. If a little smarting be not minded, Mr. Maple- son prefers the application of arquebusade water, or spirits of wine, as it immediately stops the oozing of blood, and prevents subsequent itching. (P. 09.) Instead of a scarificator, Dr. Osborne recom- mends an instrument, which he proposes to name poll/tome, which consists of several lancets with circular edges, fixed parallel in a frame, to which a convenient handle is attached. The instrument is drawn rapidly along the skin, so as to make a row of continuous incisions of about one-sixteenth or one-eighth of an inch in depth, and an inch in length. This instrument has been suggested as better calculated, than a scarificator, to insure an adequate discharge of blood. (See Osborne in Dublin Joimi, of Med. Science, vol. iii. p. 340.) Such an instrument might perhaps be added to the case of cupping instniments with advantage, if it were only to be employed where the short deep punctures of common scarificators failed to procm-e a sufRcient degree of bleeding. CUPRI SULPHAS {Sulphate of Copper) is an escharotic, and an ingredient in several lotions for ulcers, coll3'ria for the eyes, and injections for the urethra. (See Copper.) CURETTE (French). An instrument, shaped like a minute spoon, or scoop, invented by Daviel, and used for taking away any opaque matter, which may remain behind the pupil after a cata- ract has been extracted. CURVATURE OF THE SPINE, (See VERTEBRiE, DISEASES OF.) CYSTITOME (from xuo-Tif and refjivu, to cut). An instrument, invented by M. de la Faye, for opening the capsule of the crystalline lens. CYSTOCELE (from icvcttis, the bladder, and K-nXT], a tumor). A hernia, formed by a protrusion of the bladder. (See Hernia.) CYSTOTOMIA (from kvo-tis, the bladder, and refivu to cut). The operation of opening the bladder, for the extraction of a stone or calculus. (See Lithotomy.) D JJACRYOMA (from Saiepiu, to weep). An impervious stale of one or both the puncta lacliry- malia, preventing the tears from passing into the lachrymal sac. DAUCU8. (See Cataplasma Dauci.) DECOCTUM ANTHKMIDIS. ]> Florum anthemitlis, 3 ss. AqucB dnlillatce, Oct.j. Boil ten minutes, and strain the liquor. A common de- coction for fomentations. (See Foimentum.) DECOCTUM HELLEBORI ALBL —(Z)e- coclum Veralri.) Pulmris radicis kcllebori albi, j. Ar/ua; destillatw., Oct.ij. Spiritus vini rcctijimti, ij. Boil the water and powder till only one- half the fluid remains, and wlicn cold, add the spirit. This is used as a lotion for psora, porrigo, and Borne other cutaneous nfl'ections. DECOCTUM PAPAVEllIS. p, I'apuvcris Boil for a quarter of an hour, and strain. A com- mon fomenting fluid. [DECOCTUM PAREIR^. p. Parcira', 5 x. AqiuB dcslillaicc, Oct. jss. Boil down to a pint, and strain.—Ph. Lond. This decoction is frequently used with great advantage in cases of chronic inflannnation of the bladder. It has been strongly recommended by Sir B. Brodie, who says he is satisfied that it has a great influence over this disease, lessening very materially the secretion of ropy mucus ; and, he believes, diminishing the in- flanmiation of the bladder also. He employs half an oinicc of the root to three pints of water, gently boiled down to one pint; eight or twelve ounces to bo taken dail}'. It may be combined with tincture of hyoscynmus, and in those cases in which there is a deposit of tlio phosphates, some nitric or muriatic acid may also be added. {On