FRACTURE, cially when the tibia alone is fractured near its upper part, where it is very thick. When the ulna alone is broken at its upper part, there is hardly ever any displacement. The corresponding surfaces of the fragments having a large extent cannot be separated, or can only be so with diffi- culty. Fractures of the iibula are also fre- quently unattended with displacement. But when both bones of the leg or fore-arm are fractured together, there is generally more or leas displace- ment ; and such is also the case when a fracture occurs m the thigh, or upper ann, where there is only one bone. Here the little extent of the sur- faces of the fracture, and the great number of muscles, facilitate displacement. The displacement may happen in respect to the diameter, length, direction, or circumference of the bone. In respect to the diameter. In transverse frac- tures, this kind of displacement is frequently ex- emplified. The two fragments may either be in contact at a part of their surfaces, or they may not be in contact at all. In the latter circum- stance, the limb is shortened by the ends of the fracture slipping over each other. _ Li respect to length. The mode of displacement, m which the ends of the broken bone pass more or less over each other, is chiefly noticed in oblique fractures, but sometimes in transverse ones, when the displacement, in the direction of the diameter ot the bone, has been such that the surfaces of the fracture are no longer in contact. When the limb is shortened, it is generally by displacement of the lower fragment. To the species of displacement here spoken of, may be referred that which takes place in frac- tures of the patella, olecranon, and os calcis ; but with this difference, that the fragments, instead of passing over each other, recede from each other in the direction of the length of the bone, and con- tinue separated by a more or less considerable interspace. In respect to the axis of the hone. In this kind of displacement, the two fragments where they meet form an angle, and the bone appears bent. This displacement is often termed the angular de- formity. It may occur in the leg, when the limb does not lie upon a surface exactly horizontal, and the heel is lower than the rest of the limb. The angular projection is then anterior. On the con- trary, it would be posterior if the heel were too much raised. In fracture of the shaft of the thigh, it will happen if the lower part of the limb be too much depressed, or elevated, or placed too much outwards or inwards. _ In respect to the circumference of the hone. This displacement occurs when the lower fragment per- forms a rotatory movement, while the upper one continues motionless. Thus, in fractures of the neck of the femur, if the foot is badly supported by the apparatus, its weight, together with that of the limb, and the action of the muscles, inclines It outward, and turns the lower fragment in the same direction. This is called the rotatory dis- placement. Besides these displacements, there are others of a more complicated nature, which happen in several directions at once. For example, such is ine ciisplacemoiit observed in a fr.acture of the tnig i-boi.e, when the lower fragment is drawn up- ward and inward, while the foot is turned outward With respect to the causes of displacement, I may remark, that as the bones are only pass ve instruments of ocomotion, they possess not, in heir own organisation, any power capable of causing the change of situation which t4es place but yie d to the impulse of external bodies, the weight of the limb or part, and the action of Muscles. ihe displacement may be produced by an ex- ternal force, either at the moment when the frac- as that which breaks the bone: or it mav be caused cedes the fall: or, lastly, it may be brought on by some other external force, acting on the fragments, sooner or later after the occurrence of the injury 1 he outward violence operates sometimes "di- rectly on the situation of the fracture ; sometimes on parts more or less distant from it. In both cases, the action of the force is not confined to the production of the fracture, but is partly spent in causin_o; a displacement of the fragments. Fractures are generally occasioned by fells Sometimes however, the fall does not happen till aiter the leg, or thigh, is actually broken. The weight of the body then produces the displace- ment, by pushing the upper fragment against the soft parts, which are more or less lacerated. This is what happened to Ambrose Pare', who, being kicked by a horse, endeavoured to get out of the way,_but instantly fell do^vn, and the two bones ot his left leg, which had been fractured, being impelled by the weight of the body, not only passed through the skin, but even through his stocking and boot. Boyer saw a nearly similar case, in a young man who was struck on the middle of the tliigh by the pole of a carriage, which fractured the femur. The patient fell down, and in the fall the upper fragment was not only driven through the muscles and integuments, but also through his breeches. The weight of the limb itself may produce dis- placement according to the direction, or circum- terence of the bone, as already detailed. But of all the causes of the displacement of fractures, the action of the muscles is the most common and most powerful. Amongst the mus- cles surrounding n fractured bone, some are at- tached to it throughout its whole length, and are equally connected with both the fragnionts. Some arise from the bone above, and are inserted either into that, which is articulated with the lower frag- ment, or into the lower fragment itself Lastly, others come from a point more or less distant, and terminate in tlie upper fragment. The muscles around the thigh-bone furnish examples of these three arrangements. The adductor magnus is at- tached to the bone through the greater part of its length. The long portion of the" biceps, the semi- membranosus, and semi-tendinosus, come from the pelvis, and are inserted into the leg, a part with which the lower fragment is articulated, and all the motions of which it follows. The tendon of the adductor magnus is inserted into this fragment itself. Lastly, the iliacus, psoas, pectineus, &c. come from the loins and pelvis, and are attached to the femur, not far from its upper end. The muscles attached to both fragments perhaps contribute but little to the displacement. They may, however, draw them to the side on which they are situated, and thus change tlic direction of the limb.