232 ANEURISM. was coiisidoralilc ; for, during fifteen j'ears, not a single year passed witho\it his being consulted for at least two cases. For the prevention of them, he recommends the following rules: — 1. That venesection should never be practised imtil the pulsation of the artery is felt. 2. That the vein immediately over the iirtery should never be punctured. 3. That some other vein should be selected. He admits, however, that other veins sometimes cannot be readily found, and that they do not always yield the requisite quantity of blood; still he deems these inconveniences slight, in comparison with that of exposing the patient to a wound of the artery. {Diipuyiren, Clinique Chir. t. i. p. 262.) While I fully coincide with this eminent surgeon, in recommending a vein to be generally preferred which does not lie directly over the arterj', I do not agree with him that the practitioner should not open the median basilic vein, if another could not be easily found which would furnish the proper quantity of blood. I frequently bleed in the median basilic vein; and as there is the fascia between it and the arter3% believe, that the latter vessel can only be wounded by a very careless or unskilful hand. Indeed, when Dupuytren, in censuring the custom of let- ting perfect novices in the profession attempt vene- section (p. 261), he is adverting to the chief cause of the accident. The last case which I saw, was in a woman who had been bled by a farrier. Baron Larrey, surgeon to the hospital at Tou- louse, saw a case of aneurismal varix, which had been occasioned by a wound of the popliteal vein and artery; and a history of the disease, accompa- nied with the pathological preparation, was sent to the former Royal Academy of Stu-gery at Paris. " The varicose swelling, which was as large as two fists, occupied the whole of the ham in a middle-aged man, who some years previously had been wounded with a sword in that part of .the limb. At a consult- ation, amputation was deemed necessary, and was performed with success. At the bottom of the varicose pouch, the communication between the popliteal vein and arterj' was observed. The sac itself was evidently composed of the vein, the parts of which, adjacent to the varicose swelling, were dilated, especially the lower continuation of the vessel. The popliteal nerve was rendered flat, like a piece of tape, and adherent to the o\itside of the cyst." (Sec Mim. da Chir. Mil. t. iv. p. 3-10; Boyer, Traite, dcs Mai. Chir. 4-c. t. ii. p. 177.)— Two cases are likewise recorded by Mr. Hodgson. In one, the disease was caused in the thigh, about four inches below Poupart's ligament, by the point of a heated iron rod, which had passed through the femoral artery and vein. In the other ex- ample, the aneurismal varix was situated in the ham, and was the consequence of a wound in that part with a pistol-ball. {On tlia Diseases of Ar- teries, p. 498.) Larrey records one example of aneurismal varix situated under the clavicle. P. Cadrieux was wounded with a sabre in a duel, on the 20th of November, Dill: part of the attachment of the sterno-mastoid muscle was divided, the anterior scalenus, the subclavian ar- tery and vein at a very deep point, and probably also a portion of the bracliial plexus. A most violent hemorrhage took place, followed by syn- cope. Pressure was applied to the wound, and tiio patient conveyed to the hospital at Oros Caillou. The cxtenuil wound, which was small. did not bleed at all the following morning; but the clavicle was quite concealed by a large tumor, which throbbed with the arterie?, par- ticularly at its lower part. A peculiar noise, like that of the passage of a fluid through tortuous metallic tubes, could also be felt more deeply in the direction of the axillary vein. The arm was quite cold, insensible, motionless, and without anj' pulse even in the axillarj' artery itself On the 22nd, the tumor was not larger, but its throbbings were stronger ; the jugular vein on the same side was considerably dilated ; and the pulsation of the carotid, and of the arteries of the opposite arm, had augmented. A vein in the right arm was opened, and compresses dipped in camphorated vinegar, muriate of ammonia, and ice, applied to the swelling. It would be superfluous here to detail the diet, bleedings, and other parts of the treatment. On the eighth day, the outer wound was quite healed. On the tenth, the veins of the limb were observed to be swelled, and sensibility and warmth were returning in it; though no pulse could yet be felt. The tumor was much smaller, and restricted to a circumscribed place behind the great pectoral muscle; but the hissing sound was still plainer. By degrees, the muscles of the arm and forearm regained their power of motion. The hand, however, continued useless, and aifected with pricking pnins. On the twentieth da}', the tumor was quite gone; but the hissing sound was imal- tered, and the throbbings were still evident in the veins of the neck and arm. The arm was not at all emaciated. On the fift3--fifth day, a pulse at the wrist could be slightly felt: the hissing sound had become less distinct; the veins were less turgid and their throbbing had diminished. A second instance of aneurismal varix, or, rather, perhaps, of a varix of all the veins of the arm, caused by a sword-wound of the axilla, is recorded by Lar- rey. In the most prominent of the large vessels there was a pulsation. {Mem. de Chir. Mil. t. iv. p. 341, &c.) , , Dr. Dorsej', of Philadelphia, published a case of aneurismal varix, which is in several respects interesting. A patient was wounded in the leg with buck-shot; and after the cure of the injury, an aneurismal varix was noticed just below the knee ; and in a little time the superficial venis of the limb became dilated, and the hissing noise, characterising this species of aneurism, could be plainly distinguished. The patient was seen by Dr. Dorsey, twelve years after the accident ; the veins were then considerably distended from the toes up to the groin, all about which latter part pani was constantly experienced, and some ulcers situated on the foot and ankle could not be healed by any of the remedies which were tried. The patient was under the care of Drs. Physick and Wistar. The enormous distension of the vessels of the log, and the uncertainty of finding out the communication between the artery and veni, led these gentlemen to tic the first of these vessels m the middle of the thigh. Gangrene soon ensued and in this state the patient was further weakened by an unexpected hemorrhage from one of the dis- tended veins ; and though the vessel was secured with a ligature, the bleeding recurred, the patient became more and more enfeebled, and at length expired. When thclimb was examined after death, the whole of the trunk of the femonil artery was found preternaturallv dilated, while all the veins