HYPERiEMIA 3 z 2 and seat may be easily determinable, its nature and causes remaining doubtful; but the sureeon Has to form his indications from the view he enter- tains on all these points, and has to regard, also, the stage at which the morbid condition may have 'Tiu •• ^Sometimes the removal of a ligature, or 01 the influence of gravity, or of pressure, however induced, is sufficient for a cure. Relief is afforded m lypertemias of the upper extremities, by a pro- perly adjusted shng; in the lower extremities, by the horizontal posture, the feet and legs being ele- vated; m the head, by the sitting posture- in the ' Stir t"*,"' '=iiange of bloodTn th 'T' 'i'='«™i"-tionsfrom excess of blood in the system, the general condition is the pnmary object of treatment. (See Pxkthora ) In active hyperannias in the earliest stage Totthin^ applications and local depletion are cl^ar ; S cated, most violent and injurious effects being some- bmes witnessed as the consequence of an oppoSte hZ, i.-^'^f ™f as in the eye, the ear, and the limbs. But when the lesion has been produced bv ^ imtant, and has continued for a sufficien time to fatigue the muscular fibres, "they may be ex! cited to persistent contraction, so aslo resist the uicreased rush of blood by the application of a higher degree of irritation." Thi?requTres the reied ^°"=';'^'''»^al symptoms mifst be S •' -u^^.^"^ typerffimia results from the tonSZ'"' "^^^^l ^l^^ticity and he nr^''""^T".^ -'^'"^ easily dilatable under the pressure of their contents, which accumulate'in dages and compresses are indicated, and friction with stimulating liniments is of great service In Srlnd'n '""^ granuitions are iarge^ sll, +h weakness of the blood-ves- sels, these may be made to contract and unload themselves by similar measures; under the use of local stimulants the ulcer assumes a better coW and heals. In more active hypersemias of the ceUular tissue, which have persisted for a certain time stasis and exudation may be inevitable, and the treatment must be regulated accordingly (bee Inflammation.) ^ In internal organs, active or abiding hypera3mia passmg mto inflammation, on the one hand, or de! generating into passive hyperteraia, on the other, ZrJ!l^ '"<=reased tendency to these results, by its pe_rs stence or frequent repetition, owing to the original or superinduced atony of the coats of the vessels, leads to two ndes of pract ce 1 Joss£ 2 No/Yas^juickly- .4 possi We. 2. Not to carry the measures adopted for this purpose too far, or to continue them too long, so as to increase the resulting dobil ty I ° tive hyperemia of vital organs,in otherwise health v subjects, with good blood and averagrne vous power imperatively demands general blood-letting It behoves the surgeon not to be influenced by which'"tt"/ P"'';''"' ''S'"'"'' Weeding^ which there is too much reason to fear, in many instances, has led to the sacrifice of life. By "2 measure, adopted early, the quantity of blood se to the congested part is diminished, the return of theexcess of blood in the capillaries'of the S"by prevented Inflammation may thus either be .uperseded, or very materially limited, Passive 1075 hyperamiia, particularly where great susceptibility of the nervous system exists, is liable to be aggravated by general blood-letting. The tendency to unequal distribution of the blood from disorder of the Ner- vous system, is_ also aggravated by depletion, as often observed m hysteria; and it is one thing to dimmish the mass of blood when this fluid has an excess of superoxygenated fibrin, and another when It IS deficient in fibrin, and otherwise impoverished as in these opposite states of the system. Local blood-letting, sometimes adopted very freely, or several times repeated, is one of the most direct means of relieving hypei-femia. In the less active forms it may be resorted to in conjunction with general stimulants internally; but in this the greatest caution is necessary not to convert simple hypersemia into inflammation, particularly when It affects vital organs. Derivatives, that is to say, measures by which a flow of blood or revul- sion IS produced to another part, constitute an extensive class of remedies for hyperiemia. On the sudden invasion of hyperemia of vital organs, sometimes emetics and purgatives, the warm or vapour bath, diaphoretics, fomentations, pediluvia and sinapisms to the extremities, are resorted to lor the purpose of equalising the circulation, determining to the periphery, and restoring the healthy cu'culation of the affected part by enabling It to unload Its vessels. When local blood-letting can be applied so as to produce revulsion from the part affected, it is the more efficacious. Purgatives or turpentine enemata are administered on this principle, to relieve congestion of the brain So also various stimulating applications to produce counter-irritation, as blisters, sinapisms, and rube- facient embrocations. The actual cautery, moxas issues setons, friction, dry-cupping, lotions of nitro-hydrochloric acid, electricity and galvanism are resorted to as derivatives. The active hyperemia ot secreting organs is sometimes relieved by excit ing their secretions, which diminishes the quantity of blood m their vessels, and enables them to con- tract on their contents, by which the circulation may be restored; but where the flux of blood is the consequence of atrophy and debility, with in- creased secretion, a different mode of treatment is indicated. " In all cases of internal hypersemia, the surgeon has to consider the special action of the various remedies at his disposal, since the success of his treatment may depend entirely on the remedy se lected. In many affections of the lower limbs consisting of convulsions, cramps, twitchings erec' tions formication itching, pricking pain, abnormal sensa ions of cold, heat, tightness and pressure or paraplegia with diminution of temperature,wasting ol muscles, rodema, bed sores, alkalinity of urinP &c., depending on irritation of the moto^, sensitive or vaso-motor nerve fibres, from hypera^niia of a part of the spinal cord, or of the roots of some of have to be resorted to which, received into the blood and convoyed to the tissues, exert a special elective aflinity in the part aftVctcd ^n^ the modified blood, producing a Sge i5 the action of the capillary vessels. Thus, bella donna, ergot, stramonium, or hyoscyamus which act^ as powerfu excitants of the blood-;esseTs and diminish the amount of blood in the ve?! tebral canal and in so doing produce a rela- tive danumtion of tho vital properties of the