CONJUNCTIVITIS. 477 though, at the same time, it must be home in mind that they bear an intimate relation to each other. There aie three principal digressions from the normal standard that are parliculaiiy favourable for the in- cubation of this form of ophthalmia. The lirst is the " iuflammatory type." It is rapidly developed; the symptoms are acute; there is severe pain in the eyes, attended with profuse lachi-ymation of a scald- ing character; red, swollen lids and spasmodic closure. The constitutional symptoms arc a hot and diy skin, a rapid pulse, foul tongue, loss of appetite, arrest of all the natural secretions, con- stant restlessness. The treatment under these circumstances consists chiefly of salines, antimo- nials, mercurial purgatives, and the use of the warm bath; this latter is peculiarly useful in such cases. The diet must be light, and not either stimulating or too nutritious. At the same time, care is required not to persevere in this plan too long—not in fact, a day longer than the state of the secretions indicates its propriety, otherwise a feeble condition is induced, and the disease con- tinues in a sub-acute or chronic state. The second class of cases may be denominated the " irritable type." In these cases the mucous membranes are congested and disordered, and their secretions increased in quantit}' and vitiated in quality; the tongue and lips are aphthous and swollen ; the nose excoriated, the skin inflamed : combined with this there is often a tendency to prolapse of the rectum and chronic diarrhoea; this condition frequently follows one or other of the exanthemata and may be kept up by the presence of worms. You may readily recognise this form of disease by tlie general outpouring from the mucous outlets. Unsuitable food and want of cleanliness are fertile sources of this deranged state of the mucous membranes. In the treatment of these cases all causes of irritation must be removed; if worms are suspected, one or two drastic aperients are required. The secretions may be improved by a mild mercurial and an alkali. The diet must be carefully attended to ; many of the symptoms result from crude, undigested food, improper in quality or superabundant in quantit}'. It often happens that the irritation of the mucous mam- hranes remains, which purgatives only seem to increase; under these circumstances, the greatest possible benefit is found from Battley's solution, regulating the dose by the age of the patient, allowing a minim for each year, and giving it once or twice in the twenty-four hours. Tonics of any kind are not well borne, and seem to aggravate all the symptoms. The third division of these cases may bo termed " the asthenic type." It is found most commonly amongst the children of our poor population. The chief symptoms are emaciation and pallor, with a rapid and weak pulse, cold extremities,moisttongue, frequent perspirations, co-existing with a consider- able amount of ophthalmia and extreme photopho- bia. It is in this group of cases that we commonly find the intermittent form of the disease. A tonic treatment is most valuable in these cases. Where intermittence of symptoms and periodicity can be traced, quinine seems to act like a specific. The dose must be, of course, regulated Ijy the ago of the patient, bnt rather a large dose can bo borne, and seems to be required. Where the fibre is very lax, and the limbs feel flabby, steel is useful, and seems to be indicated. At the same time a liberal diet, with a moderate amount of stimulus, may be given. When the strumous diathesis is very marked, the glands enlarged, the upper lip thickened, cod-liver oil may be given with advan- tage, either alone, or combined with steel. If the tongue is foul and the secretions disordered, it is a good plan to commence the treatment with an emetic, and then to exhibit tonics. If there is much mucous and cutaneous irritation, arsenic may be given—about two minims of the liquor arseni- calis three times a day immediately after meals. The effect must be carefully watched, and the medicine must not be given at any one time for a longer period than a,fortnight or three weeks. Change of air, particularly to the sea, will some- times effect a cure when all else has failed. Local Treatment.—In the earlier stages of the attack, where the symptoms are acute, the vessels full and numerous, and of a bright red colour, or in a sudden relapse of an old-standing case, in ■which you can trace fresh organised deposit or a false membrane on the cornea, the abstraction of blood by means of leeches is often usefuL In less acute cases, where the vascularity is not so prominent a symptom, or where it has been diminished by local depletion, blisters are very useful. Thej' must be frequently repeated, and, in mild cases, will effect complete relief of the more prominent symptoms. In cases in which vascularity and other evidence of diseased action are slight, and piiotophobia exists as the prominent and principal symptom, the tinc- ture of iodine may be painted on the skin covering the eyelids. Cases occasionally occur in which the symptoms are severe and protracted, and in which great bene- fit has been observed from the use of the nitrate of silver. The motive of its employment has been the exhaustion of all other available means. In those forms of strumous ophthalmia in which irrita- bility is a prominent symptom, in which the disease is limited to the conjunctiva, forming aphthfe and phlj'ctffiuula;, attended with aqueous secretion of a frothy character, local sedatives are very useful. Of these, perhaps, the best is the opium wine of the Phaimacopteia, dropped into "the eye two or three times a day. Tt generally causes rather severe pain, that lasts several minutes, but is fol- lowed by a marked improvement in the symptoms. St/philitic affections of the conjunctiva.—Cases of syphilitic ulceration have been observed by Des- marres and others ; a case of syphilitic discolora- tion of the conjunctiva is reported by A. Snic^e I^Annal. cVOcuL, t. xiv. p. 31) ; several cases of tubercular sypliilides are mentioned by Desmarres. For Cancerous Orowths, see Evut-ids (Cancer of the). 'I ho above remarks on inflammation of the con- junctiva and on strumous ophthalmia have been taken from the practical lectures on diseases of the eye, by Mr. Critchett {Lancet, 18.54 and 1855 A Course of Leclitres on Diseases of the Eye). Of other works, consult Professor Carl Stelhvaq V071 Carion, Die Opiithalmologie, &c., vol. ii. 3rd ed. 1857 ; Desmarres, Traiti T/ieorii/uc et I'raliquc ties Maladies dcs Vcu.r, vol. ii. 1855 • Mackenzie, Cn the Diseases of the Eije, 4 th edition, 1854 ; Diion, A Guide io the Practical Studi/ of Diseases of the Eijc, he. 1855.] C. Dadcr, Consult Aviccnna, Canon. I. iii. feu. 3. tract, i. cap. C. Maitre-Jan, Traitd dcs Maladies de I'CEil, l2mo. Paris, 1722. fit. I'vcs, Traitd des Mnl. des