222 ANEURISM example in which the clavicle was bent by a large CMr. Trans. \o\. xvi.) aneurism, of which a portion as large as a pigeon's egg projected above the bone. {Lauih, p. 168.) And Morgagni has described a case where the upper bone of the sternum, the sternal ends of the clavicles, and the adjoining ribs were destroyed by the pressure of a large aneurism of the front of the curvature of the aorta, and the disease presented itself externall}', somewhat in the form of a boil. {Episl. 26, art." 9.) The swelling towards the close pulsates in an alarming way. The blood is only retained by a thin covering of livid skin, which is daily becommg thinner and thinner. At length, a point of the tumor puts on a more conical, thin, and inflamed appearance than the rest; a slough is formed, and on this becoming loose the patient is sometnnes m- stantaneously carried off by a sudden gush of blood. MM. Payen and Zeink met with an instance of the rupture of an aneurism of the aorta into^ the pulmonary artery. {Bulletin de la FacuUe de Med. 1819, No. 3.) And Dr. Hope informs us, that Professor Monro, tertius, showed him a pre- paration of an aneurismal pouch, springing from the aorta, directly against the pulmonary artery ; so that, if the patient's life had been prolonged, the aneurism would probably have burst into the latter vessel. {Hope, in Ci/clop. of Prad. Med. art. Aorta.) In the Hunterian Collection at the Royal College of Surgeons in London is a prepar- ation, No. 366, exhibiting a sacculated aneurism of the ascending part of the aorta, and a commu- nication formed between the nipple-like portion of the tumor and the pulmonary artery by ulcer- ation, immediately above and between two of the sigmoid valves. {Guthrie, On Dis. of Art. p. 60.) Some additional examples of this nature are de- tailed by other writers. (See Bulletin de la Fuculte. de Medccine, No. 3, in which there are two cases; Site, in Journ. de Mtd. contiime, t. xxiv. p. 124; and Bulletin de la FacuUe, 4'c. t. xvii. p. 16.) Aneurisms of the arch of the aorta are stated to have adhered to, and burst into, the right auricle of the heart, and thus to have produced mstant death. (See Med. Chir. Journ. vol. vi. p. 617 ; Bulletin de la Socieie de Medecine a Pans, 1810, No. 3, p. 38.) . . . . A case in which an aortic ■aneurism projected into the ventricles of the heart, is described in a modern publication. (See DiMin Journ. of Med. Science, No. 27.) . , , The cases recorded, in which aneurisms of the thoracic aorta have burst into the cesophagiis, are beginning to be more numerous than formerly. Bonetus and Morgngni relate no examples ot _it; nor are there any in the comprehensive treatises of Scarpa and Hodgson. Corvisart speaks of an instance which had been seen bj' Dupuytren, of which, however, no description is given. Yet the possibility of the occurrence is not a matter of speculation or doubt. A case of tiiis description is noticed by Matani {De Aneurism. Prcecordiorum Morbis,-^. 120); another is alluded to by Elirhardt as being related by Copeland {Comment, de Ancu- rismaleAorlce,^. 22 ; Ccrutti, Catal, Prop.Pathol.) ; an instance is described by IJcrtin (see Bullolin de la Faculte de Med. 1810, p. M) ; and a very in- teresting one, attended with disease of the spinal cord and paralysis, is given by Dr. MoHson. (See Edin. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. m. p. 17. .) I have recorded one example myself (see Med. _ _ This was remarkable for the length of time which the patient lived after the first rupture of it, and on account of the diminution of the external swelling and of the displacement of the scapula. Sauvages is one of the writers who have adduced proofs of this mode of rupture: Cadavere apetio, inveni ventricidum septem vel oclo libris sanguinis distetisum, aortam ad hraehii magnitudinem per spatium septem vel oeto pollicum dilaiatam, et oriji- cium denarii magnitudine aortm et cesopliago con- tiimo commune, quod iamcn quinque crista: camem, veliiti valvulce, ex amhitu orificii oriundw et circum- posilcB 2^otueru7ii ohturare. Per hoc orificitim, sanguis ex aorta ftuacerat in cesophagum. {Nov. Method, t. ii. p. 298.) A similar case was pub- lished by Brichetau. (See Bulletin de PAthenee de Med. de Paris, Dec. 1816.) Laennec met with three examples of death from this cause. (On Dis. of the Chest, p. 677, cd. ly Forbes.) The same distinguished professor met with an aneurism of the descending aorta, where the tumor had made such pressure on the thoracic duct, that this tube was partly destroyed, and all the hnn- phatic vessels were found uncommonly turgid. {Journ. de M6d. par Conisarl, t. ii. p. 15.) With the exception, perhaps, of one instance given on the authority of Lancisi {Lauthii Collect, p. 38), no other example of this description is upon record. An instance is reported by Corvisart, in which the pressure of an aneurism of the ascending aorta had nearly obliterated the termination of the lower vena cava, and a fatal attack of apoplexy was the consequence. {Mai. du Cceur, p. 342.) Other examples of this are reported by Corvisart, Ber- lin, and Dr. Hope. Aneurisms of the arch of the aorta may occa- sion a tumor, so much like that of a subclavian aneurism, as to be in danger of being mistaken for the latter disease. An example of this kind is re- lated by Mr. Allan Burns: "A case," says he, " on which several of the most distinguished prac- titioners of Edinburgh, and almost every surgeon in Glasgow, were consulted. The nature of the disease appeared to be so decided, and its situa- tion in the subclavian artery so clear, that, on that subject, there was no difference of opinion. Some were, however, of opinion that an operation might be performed, while others were fully convinced that the case was hopeless. For myself, I must confess that I was firmly persuaded, that, m the early sta^e of the disease, an operation might have been beneficial," &c. {Surgical Anatomy of the Bead and Neck, p. 30.) After death, the vessel which was supposed to have been most materially affected, was found perfectly healthj'. (P. 39.) After detailing all the particulars of this interest- in" case, Mr. A. Burns observes, that it corro- borates Sir Astley Cooper's remark, that aneurism of the aorta may assume the appearance of being seated in one of the arteries of the neck ; an infer- ence drawn from the examination of a casB which came under his own observation, and of which he had thegoodness to transmit a short h - torv to me, along with a sketch illustrati ve of tho lositJon of the'tumor ly-^/'^^^ Hsm was attached to the right side of the ao.t c arch, and involved apart of the nrteria — nata ; in Sir A. Cooper's, the tumor arose f on e left Bide of the arch, from between '1"^;°° '''^ loft subclavian and carotid arteries. It foimed tt