the pressure of the fingers, and rising again when effect. With a pharyngotomus, however, he now sucii pressure is removed; yet the rectum may still exist, and Lave a cavity, as far as the membrane, or adhesion, closing it. When the anus is simply covered with skin, and its place indicated by a prominence, arising from the contents of the rectum, we have only to make an opening with a knife, sufficient to let out the meconium. Another cut may then be made across the first, and the four angles removed. About two yeai-s ago, I performed this operation, and the little patient was saved. A piece of bougie, or what is better, a portion of elastic gum catheter, is after- wards to be introduced, in order to keep the open- ing from closing. If the anus be only partly closed by a membrane, the opening may be dilated with tents or bougies ; but, if the aperture be small, it is preferable to use the bistoury for its enlargement. When no external appearance denotes where the situation of the anus ought to be, the case is more serious and embarrassing ; and this, whether the intestine be stopped up by a fleshy adhesion, or the coalescence of its sides, or whether a part of the gut be wanting. However, it is the surgeon's duty to do every- thing in his power to afford relief, For this pur- pose, an incision an inch long, or rather more, is to be made in the situation where the anus ought to be, and the wound is to be carried more and more deeply in the natural direction of the rectum. The cuts are not to be made directly upwards, nor in the axis of the pelvis ; for the vagina or bladder might thus be wounded. On the contrary, the operator should cut backward, along the centre of the concavity of the os coccygis, where there is no danger of wounding any part of importance. In all cases of this kind, the surgeon's finger is the best director. The operator, guided by the index finger of his left hand, introduced within the os coccygis, is to dissect in the direction above recom- mended, until he reaches the meconium or has cut as far as he can safely reach with his finger. If he should fail in finding the meconiiun, as death must unavoidably follow, one more attempt ought to be made, by introducing, upon the finger, a middle- sized trocar, in the direction best calculated to reach the rectum, without danger to other parts, viz. upwards and backwards in the median line! Should this attempt prove successful, the canula may be left in the puncture and secured there with tapes, so as to aflford an outlet for the fajces. In some observations on this subject, addressed to the Medical and Chirurgical Society by Mr. A. Copland Hutchison, he recommends an elastic gum catheter to be substituted for the canula, after a week; and, when the tube can be dispensed' with, a sponge tent, or piece of bougie, to be worn twelve out of the twenty-four hours. (See Ohs in Surgery, ed. 2, 1026.) In an interesting case, recorded in Langenbock's Surgical Bibliothcca, the imperforate state of the anus was not discovered till the evening of the twelfth day from the child's birth, when hiccough and convulsions had come on. M. Wolff found the abdomen protuberant, hard, and painful when handled, and the child was suffering from nausea vomiting, and great depression of strength. Next day, lie introduced a lancet a few lines in front of the OS coccygis, to the depth of an inch, without tinding the rectum. The puncture was then carried to the depth of two inches, but without ANUS. 2(53 succeeded in piercing the rectum ; and a glyster was administered, which brought away some meconium. Under the use of glysters and tents, the child soon recovered. By such proceedings, many infants have been preserved, which would otherwise have been de- voted to certain death. Hildanus, La Motte, Roon- huysen, Mr. A. Copland Hutchison, and others, have successfully adopted the practice. Mr. B.Bell met with two cases in which the intestine was very distant from the integuments, yet he suc- ceeded in forming an anus, which fulfilled its office tolerably well for several years ; though he found it difficult to keep it pervious. As soon as he re- moved the dossils of lint and other kinds of tents used for maintaining the necessary dilatation, such a degree of contraction speedily followed, that the evacuatiop of the intestinal matter became difficult. He employed, at different times, tents made of sponge, gentian root, and other substances which swell on being moistened. But they always pro- duced such pain and irritation that it was impos- sible to persevere in their use. Tents of soft lint dipped in oil, or rolls of bougie-plaster, were found to cause less irritation than those composed of any other materials, _ Though keeping the opening dilated may seem simple and easy to those who have had no oppor- tunities of seeing cases of this description, it is far otherwise in practice. Mr. B. Bell assures us that he never met with any disease that gave him so much trouble and embarrassment, as he ex- perienced in the two cases of this sort which oc- curred in his practice. Although, in both instances, he made the openings at first sufficiently large, it was only by very assiduous attention for eight or ten months that the necessity for another operation, and even repeated operations, was prevented. When only the skin has been divided, the rest of tlie treatment is, doubtless, more simple • for then nothing more is requisite than keeping a piece of int for a few days, in the opening made with the linite. But, when the extremity of the rectum is at a certain distance, though we may generally hope to effect a cure, after having succeeded in giving vent to the intestinal matter; yet the treat- ment, after the operation, will always demand for a long while, a great deal of attention and care on the part of the surgeon. In a highly interestinij example, recorded by Mr. Miller of Methven such was the tendency to closure of the new open- ing, that he was obliged to repeat the operation ten times before the child was eight months old. (See Edui. Med. Journ. No 08 p \ Notwithstanding all these operations, and another one of two hours and three qnarters' dura- tion performed several years afterwards for the extraction of an alvine concretion, equal in size to a^turkey'a egg, the power of the s^nct^r Z [The cause of this contraction may be thus ex- plained. 1 he lost portion of the intestine can never be rostored ; it is a fistula which is substituted hi place of the natural tube, .and the species of 11^ surface, which ultimately becomes' develop d bu very imijerfectly, represents the natural lining of the p. 1UJO.) To obviate this inconvenience from stibsG- quent contraction, and also to prevent the irritation caused by the passage of fiecal matters over the ravv s 4