6U(i less efficiently and readily accomplished. If it be advantageous to bend the limb at the time of re- ducing a fracture, the Frencii mode of practising extension and countcr-exlehsion may not be the best. I am not, however, one of those surgeons ^yho are entirely blinded with the idea of the pos- sibility of relaxing the whole of the muscles con- nected wiih the broken bone by merely bendin" the limb. On the contrary, I am convinced with Desault, that in general what is gained by the relaxation of some muscles, is lost by the tension of others. But where it is possible to relax by a certain posture the set of muscles most capable of preventing tlie reduction and disturbing the coap- tation of a fracture, that posture 1 would select. Thus in a fracture of the leg the strong muscles of the calf undeniably possess this power, and the bent position which relaxes them appears to me, therefore, generally the most judicious and advan- tageous, not only during the reduction, but during the whole treatmeiit of the case. " It is difficult to lay down rules respecting the precise degree of force which should be used in making extension; for it must vary in different cases, according to the species of displacement, and the number and power of the muscles con- cerned in producing it. In transverse fractures, displaced only according to the diameter of the bone, a very moderate extension suffices, as it is merely practised with a view of lessening the friction and pressure of the surfaces of the fracture against one another. But whatever be the direc- tion of the fracture, when the fragments pass over each other, the extension and counter- extension should be such as to remove the short- ening of the limb, and overcome the force of those muscles which, after all attention has been paid to their relaxation, still oppose the reduction. Extension, however, ought never to be practised in a violent and sudden way; but in as gradual a manner as possible, the utmost care being taken not to sliake, nor even move, the limb any more than can be avoided. When the practitioner extends a broken member all at once violently, he excites the muscles to strong spasmodic action, and there is some danger of lacerating them, because their fibres are not allowed the requisite time to yield to the force whicii elongates them. The extension is to begin in the direction of the lower fragment, and be continued in that which is natural to the body of the bone. In every case of fracture with displacement, as Boon as the necessary extension has been made, the surgeon is to endeavour to place the ends of the broUou bone in their natural situation : this IS termed coaptaiion, or sdlinrj. This operation is to bo undertaken in different ways, according to the species of displacement, and the practitioner can almost always execute it by acting upon the lower fragment, without applying his fingers di- rectly to the fracture itself, in order to regulate the contact of the extremities of the bone. When, however, it is judged necessary for this purpose to touch the broken part itself, it should be done with tlie utmost gentleness, so as to avoid pressing the solt parts agamst the points and splinters of bone. Although the reduction of fractures may in general be accomplished with tolerable facilitv, it somctnnea happens that the first attempts fail, ims IS occasionally ascribable to the employment 0' too much force and too little management, in FRACTURE. making the extension, whereby the muscles are irritated, and act so powerfully that the design of tiie surgeon is completely frustrated. Here the grand means of success is putting the limb into such a position as will relax the most powerful muscles which oppose the reduction. Sometimes however, the irritable and convulsive state of the muscles is not the effect of any wrong mode of proceeding on the part of the surgeon, but arises troni the alarm, pain, and injury caused by the accident itself, the comminuted state of the bone the irritation of spicula, or the very oblique direc- tion of the fracture. Here relaxing the muscles is also the most likely method of removing the diffi- culty. _ In short, now that the utility of paying attention to this principle is universally known in the profession, a fracture is rarely met with which cannot be immediately reduced, particularly if opium be given. But supposing the bone can- not be made to lie well at first, it will easily be made to do so in the course of a few days, when the tendency to spasm has diminished, and the pain and first irritation have subsided. Only let the sul-geon watch and regulate the position of the limb about this period, and the cure will be com- pleted without any deformit}'. Of ilie means for keeping Fractures reduced.— After the bones have been put into their natural situation, time alone would complete their cure, were there not in the muscles a continual propen- sity to displace the ends of the fracture again. In cases of fracture the muscles are often affected with involuntary spasmodic action, by which the broken part would certainly be displaced, were no measures taken to maintain the extremities of the broken bone in contact. Besides, the patient, in easing himself, coughing, sneezing, &c. must unavoidably subject the limb to a degree of motion, by which the coaptation would be altogether destroyed. Hence the necessity of employing means for fi.ximj- the broken limb so effectually that it may continue perfectly motionless during the whole time requisite for the union of the fracture. Tiie means cm- ployed for the fullihnent of this indication are: an advantageous position, quietude, bandages, splints, alid various kinds of apparatus. In the treatment oF all fractures, the position of tlie part, and indeed of the whole body, is a thing of m;iterial importance. Whenever the case is a fracture of the lower extremities, the patient should lie strictly in bed until the callus is completel}'formed and strong. It is likewisean advantage not to have the bed too wide, because tiie surgeon and assistants can then more conve- niently get at any part of the limb. As feather- beds are too yielding, a horse-hair mattress is preferable. Boyer, indeed, is so impressed with the utility of letting the patient lie upon a surface which will not sink, that he recommends two mattresses to be used, and aboard to be laid under the upper one, from the hip to beyond the patient's foot. Chir. p. 39. vol. iii.) Generally the most favourable position for a frac- tured limb is that in which all the muscles, passing over the fracture and extending either to the lower fragment, or to that part of the limb which is articulated with it, are equallj^ relaxed. Tiie injured limb should also have firm support nt every point, and its position ought to be regulated, so that not only this object be carefully fulfilled, but at the same time the chance of displacement from