AMPUTATION, 47 one may simply ask, Are all diseases in tlieir na- ture curable ? Does not the surgeon cure such as are curable, without mutilation? And are not cases, which were in the beginning remediable, often first brought to the surgeon, when, from neglect, they have become totally incurable ? Is it not his duty then to employ the only means left for saving the patient ? And is not the pre- servation of a long and healthy life a compensation for the sacrifice ? Indeed, is it not rather a greater honour to surger}', that, even when death has already taken possession, as it were, of a part, and is threatening inevitable destruction to the whole, a means is yet furnished, not only of saving the patient's life, but of bringing him into a state in which he may recover his former good health ? (^BrtimmigJiausen, Erfahrtingen unci Bamerhmgeii uber die Amjniialion, p. 11, \-2mo. Bamberg, 1818.) The first duty of the surgeon is, therefore, to ascertain with precision the cases which demand the operation, those in which it may be dispensed with,_ and the exact periods at which it should be practised. These are considerations req^uiring pro found attention and the brightest talents. The most expert operator (as Mr. O'Halloran observes) may not always be the best surgeon. To do jus- tice to the sick and ourselves, we must, in many cases, rather avoid than perform capital opera- tions ; and with respect to amputation, if we con- sider the many cases in which it has been unneces- sarily undertaken, or done at unseasonable periods, it may be suspected that this operation, upon the whole, may have done more mischief than good. At all events, it is not enough for a surgeon to know Jtoiv to operate ; he must also know luhen to do it. (See O'Halloran on Gangrene and Sphace- lus: Pre/ace.) For such reasons, I shall first take a view of some of the circumstances under which the best surgeons deem amputation necessary ; though in each of the articles relative to the particular diseases and in- juries which ever call for the operation, additional information will be offered. Some of these affect the bones or joints ; others, more especially the soft parts. As a general maxim, it is the rule to amputate, whenever the injury, or disease, of the parts, is such, that either primarily, or consecu- tivelj, the limb must be lost, or symptoms induced puttmg the patient's life into imminent peril. (See Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 234.) 1. Compound Fractures. In a compound fracture, the necessity for am- putation 13 not altogether proportioned to tlie seriousness of the accident, but frequently de- pends in part upon other circumstances. For e.x- ample, in the field, and on board of a crowded ship, it is not constantly in the surgeon's power to pay such attention as the cases demand, nor to procure for tlic patient the proper degree of rest and good accommodation. In the field, there is often a necessity for transporting the wounded from one place to another. Under these circum- stances, it is proper to have immediate recourse to amputation, in numerous cases of bad com- pound fractures, some of which, perhaps, might not absolutely demand the operation, were the pati(Mits 80 situated as to bo capable of receiving all the advantages of the best and most scientific treatment in a well-ventilated, quiet house, or hos- pital, furnished with every desirable convenience. At the same time, daily experience proves, that there are many other cases, in which it would bo improper to have recourse to the knife, even under the most unfavourable circumstances of the above description. So, when a compound fracture oc- curs, in which the soft parts have not been consi- derably injured ; in which the bones have been broken in such a direction that they can be easily set and kept in their proper position ; or in which there is only one bone broken; amputation would be unnecessary and cruel. But, when the soft parts have been more extensively hurt, and the bones have been so badly broken, that perfect quietude and incessant care are required to afford any chance of recovery, it is a good general rule to amputate whenever these advantages cannot be obtained. The bad air in crowded hospitals and large cities,—a circumstance so detrimental to wounds in general,—is another consideration which may seriously lessen the chances of saving a badly- broken limb, and should be remembered in weigh- ing the reasons for and against amputation. On this part of the subject, I find the sentiments of Graefe interesting. "Besides an absolute," says he, " there is [a relative, necessity for ampu- tation : it is the most mom'nful, and proceeds alto- gether from unfavourable external circumstances, though, alas! in many cases nearly unavoidable, when life is to be preserved. In war, every bloody action furnishes proof of what has been stated. The number of the wounded, is immense ; the number of surgeons for the duty too limited. The supplies most needed are at" a distance. In those emergencies, though the military surgeon may, from routine and genius, be able to suggest the quickest method of obtaining what is wanted, know how to avail himself of every advantage which circumstances permit, and contrive tolerable substitutes for such things as are deficient, yet this will not always do. " Who doubts (says Graefe) that a soldier with a gunshot wound, complicated with a smashed state of the bones, may sometimes be saved, with- out loss of his limb, by employing all the means which the resources of surgery ofl'er ? But these very resources are often wanting in a campaign : and the business of dressing the patient would occupy the surgeon several hours daily, &\mm which his useful assistance could not be extended to other sufferers. Notwithstanding the utmost care, the removal of patients from one place to another frequently makes their wounds extremely dangerous, or fatal ; and we now lose many a man, who, had he imdergone amputation, would have been able to bear the journejf." (See Nor- mal fur die AUusimg grlimrer Gliedmassen, IS, IC.) When a compound fracture is caused by the passage of a heavy body over a limb, such, for instance, as the broad wheel of a waggon or loaded cart, or by the fall of a very ponderous body on 't, or by a cannon-shot, or by any other means so violent as to break the bones into many fragments, and so to tear, bruise, and wound the soft ))art8, that there sliall be good reason to fear that there will not be vessels sufiicient to carry on the cir- culation with tlie parts below the fracture, it be- comes, !i3 Mr. Pott observes, a matter of the most serious consideration, whether nn attempt to save «uch a limb will not occasion loss of life. This