HYDATIDS. 1025 but at the time the report was made some tear of chronic choroiditis still remained. Cysiicerci in the Retina.—Four instances of this worm in the retina have been recorded by Graefe, and are quoted by Kiichenmeister (loc. cit. vol. i. p. 129.) In one of these, which may serve as an example, the sensibility to light liad gradually been completely extinguished in the affected eye. Examination with the ophthalmoscope showed that the lens and vitreous humour were clear, but in the middle of the retina a shining greenish body was seen, which was bordered by convex circular mar- gins, and lay a little outwards from the centre of the retina, on the outside of the optic nerve. The rest of the retina was healthy. Examined in the reversed image, the body appeared as a perfect roundish greenish vesicle, four times larger in diameter than the entrance of the optic nerve. It was firmly attached to the retina, and projected with its anterior wall into the vitreous body, in which was perceived a white button-like projecting appendage, distinctly marked by its greater opacity and its colour, which shifted its place, although no separate parts could be perceived on the knob, and over which a pair of vessels ran forward. On this account Graefe supposed that the worm had a fine enveloping membrane. When the axis of vision was completely fixed, the walls of the vesicle ex- hibited flattenings or cup-like impressions in several places simultaneously, together with movements which diffused themselves in an undulating manner. In three weeks the vesicle increased about one- third in diameter and reached to the optic nerve. The head had passed from the centre to beneath the upper margig, and appeared to have grown like a small vesicle out of the previous one, that is to say, the enveloping cyst had probably burst, and a small vesicle protruded which sat upon the former. On the head distinct swellings, and a neck region, sometimes extended and sometimes retracted, were now seen. Ten weeks after the first observation the vesicle was not remarkably enlarged, but less greenish and more transparent. The above men- tioned vessels appeared to be obliterated cords. The small appendage was nearly as large as the original vesicle, and covered the optic nerve en- tirely. The rest of the retina had lost its colour, and was covered with irregular blended pale spots. In five months the vesicle was completely col- lapsed, and instead of it a folded transparent mem- brane, without determinate outlines, was to be seen waving up and down, and the second vesicle also was less distinctly detected. The animal however was still alive, and its head lay towards the nose. In another similar case,Graefe thinks that the weak- ness of one arm, violent headaches, the glimmering, and subjective appearance of light in the other eye, might be referred to a simultaneous existence of cysiicerci in the brain. The removal of cysticerci from the retina has not, we believe, yet been attempted, but Graefe thinks, that when they are situated beneath the retina, as in one instance which came under his notice, their extraction with the aid of a speculum, might per- haps be undertaken. After a time the worm dies, fatty degeneration, calcification and shrivelling take place, and this may be accompanied by some alleviation of the symptoms; but how long a worm may live in an organism, without suffering injury, or being destroyed, are points unknown to us. Cysticerci in the Brain,—The diagnosis of these parasites in the brain is generally impossible during life, and we can only assume their probable exis- tence in those cases in which, simultaneously with cerebral symptoms, cysticerci occur in other and superficial parts of the body, and the presence of tajnia solium, at the same time, or at an earlier period in the life of the patient, can be ascertained. Cysticercus Tenuicollis—Cyst, visceralis.—This variety of cysticercus is derived from the tape- worm—twnia marginata—^which inhabits the intes- tine of the dog and wolf. It is common in most of the domestic animals, its favourite habitations being the liver and mesentery; but it has occasionally, though very rarely, been met with in man in the same situations. It differs from the cysticercus cellulosse in the large size of its vesicle, which may attain in animals the magnitude of a child's head, and is rendered remarkable by the concentric wrinkles or rings, visible externally, which pass round the worm, and which are crossed by very fine longitudinal striae. For other specific dis- tinctions in the hooks and other parts of the worm the reader isreferred to Kiichenmeister (vol. cit. p.l77). Kiichenmeister thinks it probable that this worm may occur more frequently than has been supposed, and that some examples of it, in the liver or mesentery of man, may have been mistaken for echinococci, or acephalocysts. Sometimes he ob- serves, when the enveloping cyst is unopened, " there is hardly any external difference to be found between echinococcus and cyst, tenuicollis, especially when the latter has its habitation in the liver." When the cyst is opened it is not so likely to be mistaken for a true echinococcus, from the number of scolices developed in the latter; but it might readily be supposed to be an acephalocyst or barren echinococcus, on account of the difficulty of dis- covering the single minute scolex on the walls of so large a cyst. Echinococci. There are two varieties of this class of hydatids, they were usually distinguished by the names Ecliin. veterinorum, and Echin. hominis. These names, however, are not altogether appropriate, for it has been shown that the first mentioned variety is not exclusively confined to cattle, but may occur also in man; and in like manner that the second kind is not exclusively met with in man, but may occur also in cattle. Kiichenmeister has therefore proposed to distinguish them from their mode of growth and development as Echin. Scolicipariens, and Echin. Altricipariens. The echinococci differ from the cysticerci, mainly in the fact that numerous scolices instead of a single one, and in Echin. Altricipariens, secondary cysts as well as scolices, are developed in their interior; also in the larger size which they attain, and the greater thickness of their walls, both as regards the worm cyst itself, and the fibrinous envelope which surrounds it. The structure of the true echinococcus vesicle is characterised by the following circumstances:— The walls are extraordinarily elastic, and tremble like jelly when touched, even after they are empty, which is not seen in the walls of a cysti- cercus. The walls never collapse entirely, as is the case with cysticerci, nor do they lie, like these after death, ilat at the bottom of the envelope cyst, but even when dead, they adhere to particular spots in the envelope cyst, in which case an adhesion takes place between tho latter and the worms as if 3 U