above expressed ns to the union of fractured bones in animals, thinks that in man, wliere the ends of a fracture are kept perfectly at rest, there is no provisional deposition of callus, as in animals, ■which is afterwards to be absorbed, but that the union takes place by direct ossification of the sub- stance effused between the ends of the fractured bone. Ho admits, however, that a provisional callus is formed in the human subject after frac- tures of the ribs, and also that in cases where the bone cannot be kept at rest, the irritation may oc- casion the deposition of an ensheathing osseous substance answering all the purposes of a provisi- onal callus, as in animals, but not, like it, previously cartilaginous or deposited between the periosteum and bone, but infiltrated more indiscriminately into all the surrounding tissues in consequence of the irritation produced by the movements of the frac- ture. Mr. Stanley thus states his conclusions: "The undisturbed ends of a fractured bone in man unite by the medium deposited between its frac- tured surfaces; that the amount of adventitious osseous deposit accompanying the reparation of a fracture is proportionate to the degree of irritation which, from the unqui'etness of the ends of the bone, is excited in the surrounding parts ; that the seat of this deposit is the periosteum and cellular tissue adjacent to it ; but that the characters of this deposit are whully distinct from those of the provisional callus in animals. Such will be the explanation of the seemingly irregular osseous de- posits around fractured bones. The interpretation of other osseous productions of well-defined shape and texture, found upon this or that side of a frac- tured bone, or filling up the hollows between its displaced portions, must be sought for by observing in what directions such additions of support and strength were required." (See lUustraiions of the Diseases and Injuries of tlie Bones, p. 29, 1849.) Mr. Paget coincides with the views of Mr. Stan- ley on this point, and considers that " the normal mode of repair in the fractures of human bones is that which is accomplished by ' intermediate cal- lus.' The principal features of difference between it and union by provisional callus are, (1.) that the reparative material or callus is placed chiefly or only between the fragments, not around them. (2.) That when ossified, it is not a provisional, but a permanent bond of union for them. (3.) Th<it the part of it which is external to the wall of bone is not exclusively, or even as if with preference, placed between the bone and the periosteum, but rather in the tissue of the periosteum, or indif- ferently either in it, beneath it, or external to it." Mr. Paget thinks it possible that when the frag- ments are placed in close apposition and correspond- ence, that they may be joined by immediate union (that is, that they may be united without any new material being formed for their connection ; a con- tinuity of tissue and blood-vessels being restored, as in the cases of healing by immediate union of soft parts), but if this do not happen, a thin layer of reparative mat rial is deposited between them ; it does not in any direction exceed the extent of the fracture ; neither does it, in more than a trivial degree, occupy the medullary canal; but, being inlaid between the fragments, and there ossifying, it restores their continuity. The process may be compared witli tliat of union by primary adhesion. If, however, as more commonly happens, the frag- ments at certain parts project more or less one be- FRACTURE. C97 yond the other, the reparative material is, as in the former case, inlaid between them, but is also in laro-er quantities placed in the angles at which the fragments overhang one another, but never to the extent of forming a complete ensheathing cal- lus, excepting in the ribs, and more rarely the cla- vicle. " It is deposited where it is most wanted for the strengthening of the bone, and in quantity as well as position, is adapted to the exigencies of the case, so as to restore, as much as may be, the original condition and capacities of the bone." If it be inquired why this difference should exist in the corresponding processes in man and in other animals, Mr. Paget thinks it must be ascribed principally to two causes, namely, the quietude in which fractures in our bones are maintained, and the naturally greater tendency to the formation of new bone which animals always manifest. In answer to the statement that an ensheathing callus can often be felt during life, he says, " The decep- tion is produced either by thickening and induration of the soft parts around the fracture, or by the two overlapping ends of the fragments being grasped at once, or much more rarely, by now bone accumu- lated about the fragments in consequence of inflam- mation." (See Lectures on Surgical Patliology, vol. i. p. 251.) Mr. Paget has examined the changes which the effused reparative substance undergoes previous to its conversion into perfect bone, and has found that those changes are by no means the same in all cases, but that the lymph, previous to its ossi- fication, may form itself into perfect cartilage, into fibre cartilage, into pure fibrous tissue, or into the rudimental forms of the latter tissue, viz. nucleated cells or nucleated blastema. In animals, perfect cartilage with cells, intercel- lular substances, and all the characters of pure foetal cartilage may be produced. Mr. Paget has not found the same process in the human subject, but thinks it might occur in favourable instances of simple fracture in children. In youths and adults he has met only with varieties of fibrous cartilage, presenting numerous gradations from the fibrous towards the perfect cartilaginous structure. The new bone, through whichever mode it is formed, quickly acquires its proper microscopic characters. Its corpuscles or lacuna;, being first of simple round or oval shape, and then becoming jagged at their edges, subsequently acquire their canals, which appear to be gradually hollowed out in the preformed bone, as minute channels com- municating with one or more of the lacuna;. The laminated canals for the blood vessels are of later formation. {Paget, op. cit. p. 246.) ] Oi" THE Conduct to be adopted at the or- dinary Period op the Consolidation of Fractures; and of Ununited Fractures, AND False Joints. When the requisite time for a broken bone to become firmly imited has elapsed, it is proper to examine carefully and cautiously the place of the fracture, in order to learn whether the callus has acquired a suitable degree of strength. If the bone should be found to bend in the least at the injured part, the callus is not suflicicntly strong, and the limb should be immediately put up in the apparatus again, with the view of preventing a new fracture, or, at all events, delbrmitj-. For the same reason the patient should not bo