CASTRATION this with great facility, particularly if he takes hold of the cord, and draws the testicle outward hy means of it. As Dupuytren directs, all the cellular tissue around the testicle and cord, the tunica vaginalis, and even the cremaster, should be taken away. Before the cord is cut, it should be care- fully examined, lest the incision bo made so low, as to leave some of the disease behind. (See Z)«<- ptiylren, Clin. Chir. t. i. p. 92.) In dissecting out a large testis, care must be taken not to wound the urethra, corpora cavernosa, nor the testis of the opposite side. [After the first incision has been formed, instead of dissecting the skin of the scrotum from the diseased testicle, the operator may, by grasping the tumor cause the skin of the scrotum to recede from the testicle, and the latter to protrude forwards through the external wound. Where no preter- natural adhesion between the scrotum and dis- eased testicle exists, the method here mentioned facilitates the enucleation of the disease which will be completed by a few movements of the knife. The cord also may be divided subsequent to the isola- tion of the testicle from its bed, if the surgeon prefers it, adopting the precaution of using a tenaculum or vulsellum to prevent the retraction of the cord. M. Aumont has proposed to make-the first inci- sion on the posterior aspect of the scrotum, but this plan does not appear to possess any decided advan- tage over the ordinary method above described. M. Rima has recommended a different procedure when the diseased testis is of moderate size. It consists in separating as far as possible the dis- eased from the sound testicle, and transfixing the skin of the scrotum immediately behind the cord. The knife is then to be carried downwards, close behind the testicle to be removed, and to be made to cut its way out, forming a sort of flap of the testicle covered in front by integument. This flap is raised and the operation completed by one sweep of the knife through the cord and its covering of integument. It is said that the cel- lular attachments prevent the cord from retracting, and that ample integument will be left for ap- proximation. This operation may be more rapidly performed and admit of more display, but I know of no other advantage attending it. M. Malgaigne divides the cord without caring to secure the spermatic and deferential arteries, trusting to arrest the haemorrhage from these vessels by compression ext rted on the inguinal canal througli the means of a herniary bandage, kept in position for twenty-four hours. This novelty is not men- tioned here for imitation. Deligation of the arteries in the usual way is, in my opinion, far preferaljlc.] Desault first divides the cord, and, holding its upper end bi'tween the index finger and tliumb of his left hand, he then takes up the arteries with a pair of forceps, and they are immediately tied by an assistant. {Oiuvres Chir. par Dichat, t. ii.) The spermatic artery will be found in the anterior part of the cord ; and as soon as this vessel has been tied, the surgeon is to secure another, which accompanies the vas deferens, the latter part being carefully excluded from the ligature. (See Sir A. Cooper's Lectures, &c. vol. ii. p. ICl.) Pott used to fill the cavity of the wound with lint; but Desault and all the modern surgeons of this country bring the edges of the wound together. 413 and endeavour to heal as much of it as possible by the first intention. The plan of dressing, adopted by Mr. Law- rence, consists in retaining the edges of the skin together with two or three sutures, and then applying a narrow strip of simple dressing. A folded cloth, kept constantly damp, is also laid over the wound. {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vi. p. 197.) Sir A. Cooper also employs two sutures: one, opposite the end of the cord ; the other at the mid-point between the first suture and the termination of the incision. {Lectures, &c. vol. ii. p. 101.) After castration, the edges of the scrotum separate and become inverted, so that, if brought together, only the skin covering them is in apposi- tion. Hence, as Dupuytren has explained, one reason for sutures, with which he imitated Eng- lish surgeons in endeavouring to unite as much of the wound as he cotdd. (See Cliti. Chir. t. i, p. 94.) Sometimes, one or more vessels begin to bleed soon after the patient is in bed, although they effused no blood just after the removal of the testicle. Keeping the dressings and scrotum continually wet with the cold saturnine lotion very often suffices for the prevention and suppres- sion of such hEcmorrhage : if not, the wound must be opened again, and the vessels tied. J. L. Petit made some useful remarks on this operation. The vessels of the scrotum, says he, are not the only ones which may be the source of haemorrhage. Anatomists know that the sep- tum which divides this part into two cavities, is furnished with an artery that is not considerable, but which becomes materially enlarged in the case of a sarcocele or other tumor. It is some- tmies so considerable that it causes a bleedintr, which makes a surgeon, who has had no previous opportunity of seeing the occurrence, exceedingly uneasy. Such hajmorrhage, says Petit, may be easily suppressed with a ligature ; and he assures us, that he has seen a surgeon dress the patient three times, without ever suspecting that the bleed- ing, for which the applications were a third time removed, proceeded from this artery. (Maladies Chir. t. ii. p. 524, 525.) The same experienced surgeon also acquaints us, that he has more than once extricated from trouble persons, who know not hovv to stop the bleeding after the operation. He has seen some of them take off the dressings several times with- out discovering the wounded vessel. As they imagined that the only hajuiorrhage which could follow castration must be from the spermatic artery, they contented themselves with examining the ligature of the cord, and increasing the com- pression, in order to stop the bleeding ; but find- ing their attemps fiiil, they were compelled to seek assistance, On being sent for, M. Petit found, that the blood did not issue from the cord but from a small artery under the skin, at the in- ferior angle of the wouiul. He easily stopped tlio uemnrrhage, and explained, not only that the cord had no share in the accident, but that it is gene- rally suspected without foundation. In general, after the removal of a diseased testis there is more risk of bleeding from tlio vessels of the scrotum than those of the cord. f I have never seen hajuiorrhage from the spermatic artery give trouble alter the operation, but have often