GO AMPUTATION. tlie section is nearly completed, tlie uncut part of the bone is deep, and less likely to snap on the weight of the limb, or undue pressure, operating downwards. (See Lislons Elem. part iii.p. 3(34.) But there is often a fault in the construction of the saw itself, which impedes its action, quite in- dependently of any fault on the part of the sur- geon. I allude to the edge of the instrument not being a little broader than its blade. When the saw is well made, the teeth always make plenty of space for the movement of the rest of the instru- ment. The saw, recommended by Mr. Guthrie, cuts with both edges, backwards and forwards, which expedites the operation, and (what is^ of more consequence) helps to prevent splintering when the bone is nearly divided, because the divi- sion can be finished by the backward motions, which are the moat gentle. {On Gunshot Wounds, p. 89.) If the bone happen to break before the sawing has been finished," the sharp-pointed, projecting apiculum, thus occasioned, must be removed by means of a strong, cutting sort of forceps, termed hone-nippers. The perpendicular division of the bone leaves a sharp edge at the extremity of its circumference : it is not the common practice to take any measures for the removal of such sharp- ness ; yet Graefe recommends filing it away (op. cit. p. 66), and Mr. A. C. Hutchison makes it an invariable rule, whether there be any occasion to use the bone-nippers or not, " to take ofl:' the aspe- rities, and scrape, or endeavour somewhat to round, the sharp cut edge of the bone with a strong blunt scalpel, in order to prevent the soft parts from being injured, when brought over the end of the bone in forming the stump." {Pract. Obs. in Surgery, p. 24.)° Tliough I have not followed this practice, or rather the part of it which relates to cutting off the edge of the bone, I know of no objection to it, unless it be on the score of its inutility, and the delay which it occasions. All projecting points of bone, it is the ordinary custom to remove. The bone forceps may also be used, instead of the saw, for the division of smaller bones, such as tiiose in the hand or foot. One proceeding, which seems fit for repro- bation, and which, indeed, Mr. Alanson very pro- perly condemned, is the practice of scrapmg up the periosteum with the knife, as far as the muscles^wiU allow. Nothing seems more probable, than that this may be the cause of the exfoliations which occasionally happen after amputations. At all events, it is a supei-fluous, useless measure, as a sharp saw, such as ought to be employed, will never be impeded by so slender a membrane as the periosteum. All that the operator ought to do is to take care to cut completely down to the bone all round its circumference. Thus a circular division of the periosteum will be made, and upon this pre- cise situation the saw should be placed. This is the method which was approved of by J. L. Petit. [Traili des Mai. Chir. t. iii. p. 159.) It is what I liave always done and recommended ; yet it must be confessed, that differences of opinion pre- vail about the necessity, and modes, of dividing the periosteum. Graefe, in common with several others, entertains considerable apprehensions of the elfects of the periosteum being torn and lacerated by the saw exfoliations of tlie bone and abscesses up to the'joint being possible consequences of the rude separation and lullammation of this membrane. Hence he is an advocate for making a circular cut through it at the place where thesawistobeapplicd, and then scraping away all below this point in the direction downwards. {Normcn f'lir die All. t/rus- sercr GLiedm. p. 105 and l(i5.) Perhaps no very great objection may lie against this mode, which is not uncommonly followed, though I have some doubts of its real utility, as it scarcely seems prac- ticable in the midst of the oozing of blood to hit with the saw the precise line at which the remains of the periosteum terminate ; and, in confirmation of the safety of Petit's practice, Mr. Guthrie's ex- perience may be adduced, who says, " I have often sawn through the bone, without previously touch- ing the periosteum, and the stumps have been as soon healed, and with as little inconvenience as any others. {On Gunshot Wounds, p. 88.) A modern author, impressed, like many others, with the fear of tearing the periosteum with the saw, differs from them in thinking it best to scrape the ptriosteum upwards, by which means, he says, that at least half an inch of this membrane, and a proportionate quantity of muscular fibres, may be preserved for covering the end of the bone, inasmuch as the mus- cular fibres, adherent to the periosteum, will remain connected with it: an advantage which this author deems very important while the edges of the bone are sharp. In amputation below the knee, he considers the method highly useful, as the sharp edge of the tibia may be not merely covered with skin, but with periosteum and the cellular membrane connected with it. Since his adoption of this practice, he assures us that he has not for a long time seen any exfoliation of the tibia, and never any protrusion of the bone of a stump. (Br'dn- ninghausen, Erfahr. cj-c. uber die Amp. p. 65, 66, 8vo. Bamb. 1818.) Baron Dupuytren passes the knife circularly through the periosteum close to the retracted soft parts, and then detaches it upwards and downwards with the heel of the knife. {Lemons Orales de Clinique Chir. t. iv. p. 299.) [Amputation by Flaps.] [An account of the invention of this method by Lowdham, and its subsequent adoption and modification by Verduin, Ravaton, and Vermale, has already been given with the history of am- putation. Its object is to provide a thick cushion of soft parts to cover the ends of the bones, by preserving flaps composed of both muscles and integuments, instead of integument only, as in the circular operation. This covering may be procured by forming a single large flap on one side, or two equal flaps on opposite sides of the limb. In the ordinary method they are made by transfixing the limb with a sharp-pointed knife, and by cutting the soft parts from within outwards, or from its centre towards its circumference. The operation with one Jlup was that originally performed by Lowdham and Verduin in the leg ; it is best adapted for situations where the greater bulk of the soft parts is placed on one side ot the bones, as in the leg and forearm, but it may be followed with advantage in some of the articu- lations, in the shoulder-joint for example, and in the fingers. It is also useful in any part of a limb if the soft parts on one side have been so da- maged by injury or disease that they arc not htted to foim part of the covering for the stump, as in such cases it e.iables a greater length of limb to be preserved.