3 E 4 to be aware that the discharge frequently arises in the party violated from the causes above specified, witho\it the prisoner having had any venereal complaint himself. Were this fact not remem- bered, a guilty person might be acquitted on the ground that he could not have infected the child, as it was ascertained that he had no disease about him. Men who cohabit with leucorrhoeal women, or at the period of the menses or lochia, often experience a discharge from the urethra, in con- sequence of such connexion. MM. Swediaur, Cullerier, and Ratier have all ascertained by experiments, that acute inflammation of the ure- thra, and a purulent discharge may be excited by injecting into the passage diluted liquid am- monia. (See Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Fraiiqms, art. Blennorrhagib.) What experienced sur- geon is unaware of a discharge from the urethra being often excited by the mechanical irritation of bougies ? These facts make it perfectly ob- vious, that a discharge from the urethra is not necessarily a venereal complaint, or in any way connected with a specific poison. Although catarrhal syphilis (as Mr. Wallace terms gonorrhcea) occurs mostly on the mucous or muco-cutaneous surface of the genital organs, he remarks that it may take place on any sur- faces of these descriptions to which the venereal poison has been applied, as those of the eye, rectum, &c. (See Wallace on Ven. Dis. p. 236.) This gentleman seems thus to advocate the identity of the poisons of syphilis, and one species of gonorrhcea; but he observes, that as "we are not at present acquainted with any symptoms upon which we can always rely with confidence to distinguish discharges produced by other causes of irritation, we must not think of attributing to this poison all, or even a majority of the dis- charges of this kind, which we meet with in practice." (ii.) When a secreting surface has once received the inflammatory action, its secretions are increased and visibly altered. Also, when irritation has produced inflammation and an ulcer in the solid parts, a secretion of matter takes place, the inten- tion of which, in both, seems to be to wash away the irritating matter. But, in inflammations arising from specific or morbid poisons, the irri tation cannot be thus got rid of; for, although the first irritating matter be washed away, yet the new matter has the same quality as the original had ; and, therefore, upon the same principle, it would produce a perpetual source of irritation, even if the gonorrhoeal inflammation, like many other specific diseases, were not, what it really is, kept up by the specific quality of the inflammation itself. This inflammation seems, however, to bo only capable of lasting a limited time, the symp- toms peculiar to it vanishing of themselves, by tlie parts becoming less and less susceptible of irri- tation ; and the subsequent matter can have no power of continuing the original irritation, for otherwise there would be no end to the disease. The time which the susceptibility of the irritation lasts must depend upon difl^erenco in the con- stitution, and not upon any difference in the poison itself. Mr. Hunter believed that the venereal disease only ceased spontaneously when it attacked a secreting surface, and produced a mere aeerction GONORRHOEA. 791 of pus, without ulceration. Such were some of the sentiments of this great man, who was a firm believer in the identity of the poisons of syphilis and gonorrhoea ; but this idea, and the hypothe- sis about the impossibility of any spontaneous cure of venereal sores, are now entirely relin- quished. Mr. Hunter also erroneously supposed that the poison of gonorrhoea and the venereal virus were the same. He though the had seen all the symp- toms of lues venerea originate kom gonorrhcea only; he assures us that he had even produced venereal chancres by inoculating with the matter of gonorrhoea; and that he had repeated the ex- periment in a manner in which he could not be deceived, (p. 293, et seq.) Mr. Hunter's experiments, however, have been repeated with a different result ; but, as one of his advocates has remarked, can we wonder at this, when we consider from how many causes purulent discharges may arise, and how impossible it is to distinguish the venereal from any other ? {Ohs. on Morbid Poisons, by J. Adams, M.D. p. 91, ed. 2.) In attempting to explam why a gonorrhoea, ana a chancre do not equally produce lues venerea, and why the medicine which almost universally cures chancre, has less effect on gonorrhoea, one believer in Mr. Hunter's doctrine says that we must take into consideration that the seat of the two diseases is different; that the same cause may produce different effects upon different parts ; that the same poison, when mixed with different fluids, may be more or less violent in its oper- ation; and that there may be greater or less at- traction of certain fluids to a part, according to its nature and composition. {Inquiry into some Ef- fects of tlie Venereal Poison, by S. Sawrey, 1802, p. 4.) Mr. Sawrey truly remarks, p. 6, that if the gonorrhoeal matter has clearly and decidedly pro- duced chancre, or contaminated the system in any one instance, the question is determined. It could in no instance produce these effects unless it had the power of doing so. This writer brings forward some cases to prove that the poison of gonorrhosa may produce gonorrhoaa or chancre : but the limits of this work only afford room to observe that these instances are by no means decisive of the point, because some objections may be urged against them, as, indeed, Mr. Sawrey himself allows. Why does not gonorrhoea equally contaminate the system as chancre ? In gonorrhoea, says Mr. Sawrey, the discharge is V( ry plentiful; it is not, in general, attended with ulceration ; the poison is much more diluted, and mixed with a mucous and puriform fluid. Tt is deposited in the urethra and its lacunro, where little or no pres- sure is applied, and it finds easy egress out of the canal. In chancre there is breach of substance, tlic poison is not much diluted, &c. Why does not chancre generally in the same person produce gonorrhoea, and gonorrhoea, chan- cre ? Mr. Sawrey, in answer, expresses his be- lief, that these incidents are not very unfrequefit. He says he has known persons having a chancre, which continued for months, become aftected, after that time, with a clap, without any further exposure. His opinion is, that the matter of the chancre had insinuated itself into the urethra, and produced the disease ; though he confesses, many