DISLOCATION. 545 ■which the radio-carpal articulation had been dis- located by the force of the contraction of the cica- trix of an extensive burn. The end of the radius was in front of the carpal bones. (See Anat. Pathol. Mai. des Articulations, Fol. Paris, 1829 —1832.) This example, however, does not affect the general accuracy of Dupuytren's observations, fwlth regard to the excessive rarity of dislocation of this joint by external violence. Another source of occasional deception is a par- ticular conformation of the wrist in certain classes of workmen, whose employments lead them to jnalce sudden, violent, and repeated extensions. In consequence of these efforts, the ligaments of the wrist not unfrequently become relaxed, so as to allow the bones to move more extensively than in the natural state. The carpus, being then not finnly fixed to the fore-arm, yields to the action of the flexor muscles, and becomes displaced in front of ■ the lower ends of the radius and ulna. Deformity, and some degree of weakness are the only incon- veniences of tliis state of the wrist, which rarely obliges the individual to discontinue work. (See Diet, des Sciences Med.) When a fracture of the lower end of the radius is mistaken for a disloca- tion, or neglected, the interosseous space becomes effaced; the fore-arm, instead of its proper flat form in this situation, acquires a cylindrical shape; and the movements of pronation and supination are destroj^ed. (Dupit^lren, Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 211.) I have seen two cases, within a recent period, where the epiph3-sis of the lower end of the radius was separated from the rest of the bone by a fall. Both the patients were boys, who had sustained other severe injuries. [There can be no doubt about the extreme rarity of these dislocations, but, nevertheless, Dupuytren went too far when he denied their existence altogether. M. Malgaigne has collected eight examples of the dislocation backwards, and six of the dislocation forwards, one of which latter was observed by himself. Of the eight dislocations backwards, however, five were compound, while of the remaining three, one, recorded by M. Voillemier, which afforded a perfect example of dislocation in every other respect, was compli catcd with fracture of the styloid process of the ulna; and in another, observed by M. Lenoir, it w!is found that a small portion of bone had been detached from the posterior border of the articular surface of the radius and had followed the carpus in its displacement backwards. Both these patients died from other injuries, and the wrist joints were carefully examined. Of the six dislocations for- wards, three were associated with fracture of the styloid process of the radius, but two, recorded by MM. Mnlle and Collin, were unattended by any complication whatever. (See Malyaigne, Traitc, des Fract. t. ii. p. 0.98 et. scq.) A case observed by Mr. llaydon, in 1840, of a boy a;t. thirteen, who was thrown from a horse, and fell on the palms of liis hands, is recorded in Sir A. Cooper's work on Dislocations. Both wrists were dislocated, one {the left) presenting a disloca- tion of the radius forwards; the other [ihc rir/lil) presenting a dislocation of the radius and ulna backwards. If this case can be depended upon, it is remarkable, as showing that the direction in which the force is applied does not always deter- mine the direction of the dislocation, since here the same kind of force produced nn opposite dis- placement on the right and left side. The force was believed to have operated in the same direction on both sides, because there were "extensive bruises on the palms of both hands, but not the slightest on the back of either hand." These injuries were believed to be dislocations, unattended with any fracture, because " the two tumors in each mem- ber were so distinct, the reduction was so complete, and tlie strength of the parts after reduction so great; and also from the very trifling pain felt after reduction—for within an hour after, the pa- tient could rotate the hand and supinate it when prone; this could not, it was believed, have been done had there existed a fracture (p. 485, B. Cooper s Edition, 1842). It certainly seems ex- traordinary that two examples of this dislocation, which is admitted on all hands to be so extremely rare, should occur at once in the same individual. In distinguishing between a dislocation of the wrist and a fracture of the lower extremity of the radius, the position of the styloid process should be carefully noted. In the dislocation, this process will be in a line with the shaft of the bone, and at the same distance from the external condyle of the humerus as on the sound side. In the fracture the styloid process follows the carpus in its displace- ment, and does not coincide with the axis of the rest of the bone. Care should be taken, how- ever, lest the lower end of the shaft of the radius be mistaken for its styloid process, an error which is not unlikely to happen when the fracture is very near the wrist, or in children when a separation of the epiphysis has taken place. A comparison of the injured with the sound side, by measurement from the external condyle to the supposed stj'- loid process, should set this point at rest; conhrma- tive evidence may also be obtained by observing that if the radius be iminjured, its styloid process should be situated at a somewhat lower level than that of the ulna. Further information on these points will be met with in the article on Fractures of the radius.] Reduction.—If a dislocation of the radio-carpal joint were to be met with, gentle extension and counter-extension would be requisite, while the two surfaces of the joint should be made to slide on each other in a direction contrary to what they took when the accident occurred. [A better plan, M. Malgaigne thinks, would be to exercise direct pressure with the thumbs, either from above down- wards upon the carpus, or from below upwards upon the radius.] [Dislocation of the radius at the ivvist.—A dis- location of the radius only is thus described in Sir A. Cooper's work on Dislocations:—"This bono is sometimes separately thrown upon the fore part of the carpus, and lodged upon the scaphoid bono and 02 trapezium. The outer side of the hnnd is, in this case, twisted backwards, and tlie imier for- wards; the extremity of the radius can be felt and seen, forming a protuberance on the fore ]iart of the wrist, and the styloid process of the radius is no longer situated opposite to the os trapezium. This accident usually liappens from a fall when the hand is bent back; and 1 have also known it arise from a fall upon the hand, by which the condyles of tlie OS humeri were broken obliquely, and the radius dislocated at the wrist, being thrown upon the fore part of sca])hoid bone, where it could bo distinctly felt."—" The extension necessary to rc- N N