- CERATUM SABINE troches for fistulous passages which follow absces- ses developed in the inguinal or axillary regions. The tubular eschar thus formed is detached on the third day, and allows cicatiisation to proceed, especially if aided by gentle compression. In nsBvus, I have seen Grafe use the sublimate as an efficient escharotic in the form of a paste made by mixing one part of the salt with two of gum, and the addition of water to bring it to a proper consistence. A small caustic issue may be made by inserting a minute quantity reduced to im- palpable powder, into a fine incision made with the edge of a lancet in the skin.] Alexander Ure, CAUTERY (from Kaia>, to burn). Cauteries are of two kinds, namely, actual and potential. By the first term is implied a heated iron, by the second surgeons understand the various caustic applications treated of in the preceding article. The high opinion which the ancients entertained of the efficacy of the actual cautery, may be well conceived from the following passage :— " Quos- cunque morbos medicamenta non sanant, ferrum sanat; quos ferrum non sanat, ignis sanat; quos vero ignis non sanat, insanabiles existimare oportet." {Hipp. sect. 8, apt. C.) [The actual cautery has been employed for the stoppage of bleeding, where the vessels could neither be tied nor compressed, as for example, in the throat and dental alveoli, in vascular htemor- rhoids ; and in bleeding fungus. It has also been employed for the destruction of carcinomatous tumors and ulcers. Delpech often had recourse to the actual cautery to destroy fungous tumors of the antmm. The same practice was followed by Pelletan and other eminent surgeons in France. The part of the fungus which could be cut awayj was so removed, and the deeper portion, out of the reach of the knife, was cauterised. The actual cautery has been found eifectual in stopping the fatal progress of bad cases of hospital gangrene, the iron being applied red hot, so as to produce an eschar on every part of the surface of the sore. It has likewise been used in carbuncle; in organic defects, such as cleft palate; for the closure of fistul- ous openings, and for the purpose of depriving carious bone of its vitality. In the last-named instance, the heated iron should be of a spherical or ovate shape ; it ought to be pressed down firmly, and be suc- ceeded by two or three others, until the whole morbid surface has been subjected completely to their action. The object here is to procure necro- sis of the part. The principal use, however, to which the actual cautery is resorted to in the pre- sent day, is in the treatment of diseased joints. Thus, in hip-disease, "if," says M. Sj^me, " the pain is severe, so as to disturb the patient's sleep, recourse must be had to the actual cautery as the most powerful remedial means thatcan be employed. The best place for applying it is the hollow hetween the trochanter major and the tubero- sity of the ischium, where a broad eschar, several inches in length, should be formed." {Prin. of Sxcrgenj, p. 22.) In like manner, in disease affectmg the cartilages in other joints, its use is equally indicated, an eschar three or four inches long being formed on each side of the joint. In angular curvature of tlie spine, when pain and other symptoms denote the existence of inflammatory action, the actual cautery may be advantageously applied longitudinally to the extent of a few inches "» each side of the affected part, except wlien the neck is concerned, in which case the middle ine, as Mr. Syme recommends, may be se- lected for the purpose. (Op. cit. p. 197.) The actual cautery has proved useful in chronic inflam- mation of the spongy bones of the carpus and tarsus. The cauterised streaks present a brown, bkck and yellowish-grey aspect, surrounded by a red halo! The resulting eschars are occasionally not detached before some weeks have elapsed, and the ulcers of burns being slow in healing, is a main advantage which the cautery possesses over caustics. Emollient poultices constitute the local treatment. Before the cautery is applied, the patient may be rendered insensible by chloroform, or the part may be be- numbed by congelation. Burning ought never to be employed with young children, except under most urgent circumstances, because it is dangerous, prone to induce trismus and other nervous affections. Cauteries are of diflferent shapes and sizes. Those commonly used, are the spherical, the ovate, and the prismatic. The iron should be heated, if pos- sible, to incandescence, and the surrounding soft parts protected by dry or moist folds of Imen. Great care is required in applying the cautery within the mouth, and before each introduction of the iron, a large dossil of lint held in forceps is to be passed round, the lips and cheeks being shielded as above stated. Here folds of dry linen are preferable to wet, as tending to conduct the heat less rapidly. In cauterising the rectum, a horn or wood speculum must be previously introduced. I may briefly allude to the galvanic cauterj--, which has been succesfully employed in paLital and vaginal fistulas, and would refer the reader to Mr. Marshall's writings on the subject.] Alexander Ure. CERATUM CALAMINE, (P. L.) A good simple dressing. CERATUM CANTHARIDIS (P. L.), form- erly used as a dressing for blisters, when it was wished to keep up a discharge from them. On account of the tendency of cantharides to bring on strangury by being absorbed, the ceratum sabina; is now generally preferred to the cerate of can- tharides. CERATUM CETACEI. (P. L.) The sperma- ceti cerate. A mild, unirritating salve, for common purposes. CERATUM CONII. R. Unguenti conii Ibj. (See Unguentum.) Cetacei 5 ij. Cerw alhce, % iij. M. One of the fomulaj at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, occasionally applied to cancerous, scro- fulous, and phagedajnic sores. CERATUM HYDRARGYRI COMPOSI- TUM. (P. h.) ipt. Ung. hydrarg. Cerat. sa- ponis camp, aa 3 vj. Camphorce 5 jss. M. This is sometimes eraploj'ed as a dressing for promoting the absorption of indolent swellings. CERATUM PLUMBl ACETATIS. (P. L.) A mild, astringent, unirritating salve. CERATUM PLUMBl COMPOSITUM. (P. L.) An excellent, gentlj' astringent salve, for common purposes. CERATUM SABINiE. ^. Sahinai folio- rum recciitiuiii contnsorum, Ibj. Cera: favx, Ibss. Adipis pra:parat<B, Ibij. Mix the savin with the melted wax and hog's lard, and strain the com- position. The common application for keeping open blis-