^^■^ HEAD, INJURIES OF THE cialljr important to look to the state of the respira- tory system and the condition of the sphincters and if decidedly stertorous breathing, and not th mere raucous rattle which frequently appears even lu tne milder cases, exist, with a relaxation of th sphincters of the bladder and rectum, and if th pupil continue insensible to light, and especially i. hemiplegia accompany these symptoms, an unfa- vourable termination may generally be anticipated. The supervention of hemiplegia and convulsions during prolonged concussion is regarded by all surgeons as a sign of the gravest import, as in all probability they are dependent on some sudden eifusion upon the substance of the brain. But even with such a complication recovery sometimes takcu place, of which the following is a remarkable in stance :—A youth, eighteen years of age, a sailor, fell down a ship's hold the height of fourteen feet, his head coming in collision with some hard body. He was taken up insensible and brought into the London Hospital. He could not be roused when loudly spoken to, and was evidently unconscious of what was passing around him. On the following day he was so violent and restless as to require to be confined with the strait waistcoat. He was bled and purged and took mercury. On the next day he had several convulsive fits resembling epi- lepsy, the convulsions being universal ; the pupils were dilated. He continued the subject of occa- sional convulsions until the thirteenth day, when thev suddenly increased in frequency, succeeding each other with great rapidity; his left side became now decidedly paralytic, and he lay in a state of partial insensibility. The paralysis was particu larly remarkable in the muscles of the face and arm. He continued still the employment of mer cury, but in smaller doses, as his mouth was affected. Leeches and blisters were also em- ployed, and on the sixteenth day the convulsions had left him and the paralysis began to decrease. He continued to improve, and eventually perfectly recovered. If the patient survives the third or fourth day, unless the symptoms increase in intensity, a favour- able issue may be expected, as it is probable that no serious organic lesion has occurred. A rapid sinking of the pulse, with a decided diminution in temperature, cannot but be regarded as most unfa vourable symptoms. In ordinary cases a perfect restoration may with tolerable certainty be ex- pected; nor can we adopt the opinion of Pott, who says that he never knew patients recover from the consequences of concussion without an imperfec- tion in some sense or part of the body remaining. Treatment.-—Ahev severe concussion the organic functions are more or less impaired for a length of time. This is shown by the feeble state of the cir- culation, general debility, and a tendency to constip- ation and diminution of sexual power. We attribute this in a very great measure to the effect upon the nerves distributed to the arterial system, which belonging to the sympathetic nerves are neverthe- less obviously dependent in man and the higher animals on the integrity of the cerebro-spinal axis. If the pathology of concussion, as deducible from the preceding observations, be correct, it follows that, in simple concussion, where no organic lesion of the cerebral fibres exists, and where the whole tram of symptoms are referable to a sudden loss ot nervous power, all that is nuccssary is to await the restoration of the cerebral functions. We know that this restoration will take place BpontaneouBly and by the unaided efforts of nature. The surgeon has there fore little to do but to place the patient in circumstances favourable to this desirable end. The weak and faltering state of the pulse and the cold skin indicate a very depressed state of the circulation, a condition obviously depending on the feeble action of the heart resulting from the sudden deprivation of nervous power, and frequently re- quire the exhibition of gentle stimulants, to be ad- ministered with the greatest caution ; but on this point I quote the judicious remarks of Mr. Aber- nethy. He says :— " With regard to the treatment of concussion, It would appear that in the first stage very little can be done. From a loose and, I think, falla- cious analogy between the insensibility in fainting and that which occurs in concussion, the more powerful stimulants, such as wine, brandy^, and volatile alkali, are commonly had recourse to as soon as the patient can be made to swallow. The same reasoning which led to the employment of these remedies in the first stage, in order to recall sensibility, has given a kind of sanction to their employment in the second. But here the practice becomes more evidently pernicious. The circumstance of the brain having so far recovered its powers as to carry on the ani- mal functions in a degree sufficient to maintain life, is surely a strong argument that it will conti- nue to do so without the aid of such means, which tend to exhaust parts already weakened by the violent action they induce. It seems probable that these stimulating liquors will aggravate that inflammation which must come on sooner or later. The access of it in the cases which I have related is sufficiently evident; and its cure is to be effected by the common methods." In ordinary cases, therefore, for the first few hours let the patient be kept perfectly at rest in bed, with the head slightly raised. The slight warmth spontaneously generated, being retained by the blankets, is sufficient to act as a gentle sti- mulus to the capillaries, and through them to the heart, and the functions of the brain will be gra- dually restored. The pulse in the course of a few liours will be found to rise both in force and fre- quency, and the first indication of recovery will be the expression of wonder of the patient at what is taking place around him. Even the application of cold at the onset ought to be avoided, as it can do no good, and may tend to prolong the insensibi- ty. If, however, after the pulse has risen and warmth has returned to the general surface, the insensibility is prolonged, the greatest circumspec- tion should be used, as some doubts may arise Jis whether the symptoms are not indicative of compression rather than of concussion of the brain. Very careful but very simple treatment is requi- site. The hair is to be thinned, ice should be used to the head, and purges of calomel <md croton oil combined should be administered; the pulse must cautiously watched, and if a state of restless feveiishness arises, as indicated by^ the increase in le power and frequency of the pulse and heat of skin, and especially if the patient frequently ap- plies his hand to any particular part of the head, if in pain, a few leeches are to be <^ppli(■d, or bleeding from lliearm may be had recourse to in a full plethoric habit of body. Venesection in con- cussion is rarely employed to any extent in the