738 the surgeon may try to produce it by causing the limb to be 5fe«% ro/atoi while he endeavours to hx the head of the bone by pressing it with liis fingers back against the acetabulum." (On Fractures of the Upper Third of the Thigh bone, p. 15.) [It should be remembered, however, that mischief may arise from too great anxiety to obtain the evidence of crepitus, for the fibrous reduplica- tions which are reflected upon the neck of the bone from the insertion of the capsular ligament, and which sometimes remain entire, and are of great service in preventing displacement, may be rup- tured by the attempts to communicate rotatory movements to the limb.] The toes are usually turned outward; a position which Sabatier considers as the inevitable effect of the fracture, though Pare and Petit noticed that it did not constantly occur. Two cases adduced by these illustrious surgeons were not credited by M. Louis ; but the experience of Desault fully con- firmed the possibility of inversion of the limb. As Sir A. Cooper has remarked, three or four hours generally elapse before the turning of the limb outward is rendered most obvious by the fixed contraction of the muscles. {Surgical Essays, part ii. p. 32.) The inversion of the limb, how- ever, in fractures of the neck of the femur, is rare; Dupuytren, in his immense practice, never having seen it but once or twice. {Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 105.) Mr. R. W. Smith has met with three cases, in one of which the injury was within the capsule. {Did). Journ. of Med. Science, to], vi. p. Mr. Langstaff dissected a case in which the great toe was in the first instance everted, but sub- sequently turned inwards when the patient began to use the limb. The preparation shows the fracture to have been within the capsular ligament, close to the head of the bone, and gives a decided refutation to the opinion of the length of the broken portion attached to the trochanter being the cause of the inversion, inasmuch as this part has been removed by absorption. The point of the foot was everted, whilst it retained its proper length, and only became inverted by a wise provision of nature to assist progression after it had begun to be short- ened. This circumstance was illustrated in the person of Henry West, a boy from whom Mr. White, of the Westminster Ilospiial, removed the head, neck, and part of the trochanter of the left thigh-bone, in consequence of scrofulous disease of the hip-joint, attended by abscess. He recovered after the removal of the bone. The thigh was three inches and a half shorter than the other, and the toes turned inwards, not only in walking, but when he lay on his back in a quiescent posture, or pre- pared for sleep. {Guthrie, Med. Chir. Trans. vol. xiii. p. 109.) The possibility of the foot being turned inwards directly after the accident, 18 the subject that now more immediately interests lis. Of this occurrence an example is reported by Mr. Stanley. "A middle-aged man fell in the street, and his hip struck the curb-stone. The immediate consequences were, that the limb was inverted and shortened to the extent of an inch, and no crepitus could be discovered. It was pre- sumed that a dislocation had occurred, and ac- cordmgly an extension of the limb was made- and so great was the constitutional irritation occasioned by the repeated trials to reduce the supposed dislo- cation, that the man died about five months from FllACTURE. the time of the accident. In the dissection of the hip a fracture was found, extending obliquely a fracture was through the middle of the neck of"the femur" but entirely within the capsule. A portion of fibrous and synovial membrane on the anterior side of the neck of the bone had escaped laceration." " In a male subject that had been brought for dissection, It was observed that the left lower extremity was turned inwards and considerably shortened On examining the hip a fracture was found extending through the neck and shaft of the femur. Tiie neck had been broken at its junction with the shaft and a fracture had extended from the upper part of the trochanter major downwards at the posterior side of the femur, a little below the trochanter minor. The upper part of the shaft was thus split into two portions, one of which was of sufficient magnitude to include the trochanter minor and nearly the whole of the trochanter major. " In the two last cases, it may be asked, to what cause the inversion of the limb should be attributed.' Whether to the direction of the fracture ? If notj whether there be any other circumstance adequate to its explanation In the instance of fracture within the capsule, the portion of the S3'novial and fibrous membrane which had escaped laceration on the anterior side of the neck of the bone might probably prevent the limb from being turned out- wards; but (says Mr. Stanley) why it should have been turned inwards, I confess myself unable to explain. In the instance of fracture without the capsule, by considering the direction of the fracture, in reference to the attachments of the muscles, we obtain an explanation of both points. For' as nearly the whole of the muscles that rotate'the thigh outwards were connected with the separated portion of bone, they must have ceased to influence the limb in one direction, and of course have left their antagonists at liberty to turn it in the other ; and the fractured surfaces being permitted to unite, without any change in the position of the limb, the inversion would become permanent." {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiii. p. 508.) Respecting one part of this statement, I think with Mr. Smith {Dub. Journ. ^x. vol. vi. p. 215), that the circumstance of the fibrous membrane remaining entire upon the front of the neck of the bone, would scarcely account for the limb not being everted. Another explanation of the cause of the inversion of the foot in certain fractures on the outside of the capsular ligament has been given by Mr. Guthrie. "W'hen (says he) the fracture has taken place in such a manner as to be external to the insertion of these rotators outwards, yet sufficiently within the inser- tion of the glut.xus niedius and minimus, so as not to deprive them of their due action, the toe will be turned inwards, and must always be so; or remain without any alteration of position, according to cer- tain variations in the inclination of the fracture, af- fecting the power of these muscles." In the instance recorded by Mr. Guthrie, the little trochanter was broken off; but whether it be an essential compli- cation, lie conceives, must be determined hy future observation. (Vol. cit. p. 112.) Tlie principles on which this gentleman founds his explanation have since been corroborated by the particulars of a case that was examined by Mr. Syme. (See A'din. Med. Journ. April 1826.) The reason of tiie foot being occasionally inverted, oven when the fracture is quite within the capsular ligament, still remains,