28 AMAUROSIS tlie nose, or temple, so as to have some similitude in its form to the pupil of ruminating animals. Frequently', not only the size and shape of the pupil are faulty, but its position is unnatural, being inclined either upwards or downwards, or outwards or inwards, but most commonly in a di- agonal line between inwards and upwards ; and in these cases the pupillary margin of the iris never describes a regular circle, but is more or less angu- lar. (Beer, vol. cit. p. 436.) We have also the authority of Richter for as- serting that, in particular instances, the iris not only possesses the power of motion, but is capable of moving with uncommon activity, so that, in a moderate light, it will contract, and nearly close the pupil. {Anfanc/sgr. der Wundarzn. b. iii. p. 424, ed. 1795.) Two or three remarkable instances of the active state of the iris, in cases of amaurosis, were some years ago shown to me by Dr. Albert, then staff surgeon at the York Hospital, Chelsea, and I have since seen other similar cases. Most of the patients in question had not the least power of distinguish- ing the difference between total darkness and the vivid light of the sun, or a candle placed just be- fore their eyes. Janin sometimes found the pupil capable of active motion in this disease, and Sohmucker twice noticed the same fact. An ex- ample of complete amaurosis, with perfect motion of the irides, is recorded by Mr. Lawrence. It was attended by violent pains in the head, and proved incurable. {On Diseases of tie Eye, ed. 3, p. 512.) Such cases, Mr. Travers thinks, can only be explained by concluding the organ to be sound, and the cause of the amaurosis remote, or external to it. Thus, says he, in a case of circumscribed tumor, compressing the left optic nerve, immedi- ately behind the ganglion opticum, although the blindness was complete, the iris was active. In two young ladies, in whom the eyes, as in the former case, were perfect, and the blmdness com- plete, the iris was even vivacious; and there was the strongest presumptive evidence, from the sym- ptoms, that the amaurosis was in the cerebral portion of the nerve. {Synopsis, p. 188.) Some- times, when the retina of each eye is equally in- sensible to light, and the amaurosis of both ej-cs complete, the iris of each eye will be differently acted upon by the light, so that one pupil wil be larger and its motions more lively than those of the other. Mr. Middlemore has seeri several persons, who had amaurosis in a decided form in one eye, and onlv in a very slight degree in the other, in whom the mobility of the pupil, as tested in various ways, was much more considerable in the most diseased eye. The irritability of the ins, and the sensibility of the retina to light, do not, therefore, always correspond. (See R. Middlemore on Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 255.) In some anomalous cases, when the strength ot the light is suddenly increased, the pupil expands with more or less celerity. It is observed by Mr. Travers, that if the retina be opaciue, compressed, or unsupported, the uis mechanically disordered, or the ciliary nerves pal- sied the pupil is inactive, independently of the ;tate of vision. In the first of these cases, it is w that the sicht will be lost; but we con- tilly eusefd vision combined with the second and bird, as after operations, in -hf t^|^ ins has been half destroyed, or has become p.eterna- turally adherent, or in malformations, where it is half wanting ; and in paralysis of the ciliary nerves, accompanying ptosis. {Synopsis, p. 188.) Frequently, in amaiorosis, when the sight of only one eye is lost, and the other retains its full power of vision, not the slightest defect can be discovered as long as the patient keeps both of them open ; but, the instant the sound eye is completely co- vered, the iris becomes perfectly motionless, its pupillary margin assumes an angular shape, and the pupil expands, being sometimes evidently drawn towards the edge of the cornea. {Deer, Lehrc von den Augenkrank. b. ii. p. 438.) This demonstrates the difference between the indepen- dent and the associated action of the iris. Dr. Mackenzie thinks that the activity of the pupils, which sometimes exists in cases of total blindness, may be accounted for in the following manner. He saj's, "It appears to be abso- lutely necessary for the ordinary motions of that membrane (viz. the iris), not only that the iridal or ciliary nerves, and one or other or both retinas be sound, but that a certain degree of communication shall be kept up, between one or other or both retinae and the brain on the one hand, and between the Lrain and the indal nerves on the other. It becomes, then, a question whether the brain may not be so affected with disease as to be incapable of acting as the organ of visual perception, and yet retain the power of communicating to the third nerve the nnpulse necessary for the usual motions of the pupil, it we suppose that the function of vision is accom- plished only after the optic nerves reach the corpora quadrigemina, and thus communicate with the posterior part of the medulla oblongata, but that the association which undoubtedly exists be- tween the optic nerves and the third pair is ef- fected farther forward on the basis of the brain, we shall be able to afford at least a plausible expla- nation of the fact of the lively mobility of the pupils in certain cases of complete amaurosis. Ihe third pair makes its appearance immediately behind the tuber cinereum, a part of the brain with which the optic nerves have a manifest connection. The third pair does not, indeed, appear to take its origin from the tuber cinereum, but from the central cineritious substance of the crura cerebri bearing an analogj', along with the sixth and ninth pairs, the portio dura of the seventh, and the portion of the fifth pair which escapes the Gasserian ganglion, to the anterior roots of the spinal nerves ; but it is surely not an_ improbable supposition, that the optic nerves, either where thev cross tlie crura cerebri or more probably where they communicate with the tuber cinereum, form that link of connection with the third pair which thev are universally acknowledged to do in some part or other of their course. A disease, then, affecting the corpora quadrigemina, "J^^^J^^ words, the origin of the optic nerves, or affecting mv 1 rt of the tractus opticus between the corpora c.mdri-emina and the communication between he Sc nerves and the third pair, -herever tha communication is effected, wil , according to this vie^v of the subject, produce blmdness, but may leave unimpaired the influence of the opt.c nei^e upon the third pair ; while the cases of amaurosis in whicli the p.ipils arc fixed and dilated, are pro- bably owing cither to more extensive disease, or to disease so situated as to aficct that part of the