ERYSIPELAS. 638 eiysipelas, as there is, for example, in the cause of syphilis ? In answer to the former question it must bo said, that putrescent matter evidently requires some atmospheric conditions to be superadded, of which we know nothing, in order to create the erysipela- tous poison ; and to the second, that there seems every reason to believe that once having arisen by any means, it possesses the power of propagation just like the diseases called specific] [ Treatment.—In treating this branch of the sub- ject, we will first give a short catena of the opinions of eminent men at various epochs ; and then sum up tlie measures expedient in each variety of erj'- sipelas. Hippocrates says that cold water is of use in erysipelas, but not if ulcerated ; Celsus prescribed blood-letting, if the strength permits ; then refrige- rants and astringents, such as Cimolian chalk and water, covered with a leaf of beet, (a remedy which the vulgar use to this day, in the fomi of fullers' earth and water). Galen and his foUowersadopted maxims of the soimdest. Since, says he, refrigera- tion is dangerous in common inflammation without evacuation, much more is it so in erysipelas, in which there is danger lest the bile be "diverted to some nobler part; so instead of venesection, we use cholagogue medicines ; then cooling applications; and if the colour becomes livid, warm poultices, or fomentations of salt water. {Galen, Metlt. Medend., Op. Om. Kuhn, vol. x.) Serjeant Wiseman says, that if it fall upon the head or throat, phlebotomy is permissible, to avoid phrenitis or squinancy ; but if it be simple, and only in the skin, we ought only to evacuate the redundancy of humours, and prevent the ebullition of choler. If it arise from a wound, cooling and lenient applications are permissible, if preceded by purgatives ; but in erysipelas of the head and face, the greatest caution is necessary in the use 6f repellants. Sydenham considers that in this disease peccant matter is mixed with the blood, and must be evacuated; also, that the ebulli- tion of the blood must be regulated by cooling remedies ; also, that matter which has become impacted in the parts must be discharged and eliminated. To do this, he bleeds freely, and finds the bl ood like that of pleurisy the next day, then gives a mild cathartic, and a paregoric draught of syrup of poppies at night. The purging being over, an emollient fomentation was used warm twice a day ; and after the fomentation, an application of a stimu- lating tincture of Venice treacle, that is, pepper and cloves with spirits of wine. The patient lives on barley water, gruel, and toasted apples, with a little of the smallest beer. Usually, says Syden- ham, the purging and bleeding suffice. This treatment evidently applies only to mild idiopathic cases of a sthenic sort. Cullen, whose experience, like S^'denhara's, was medical and not surgical, treated erysipelas of the face by bleeding and antiphlngistics ; but confessed that the disease might be attended with putrid symptoms, and require bark, though he had never Been such cases. John Hunter, in cases of ditfiised inflammation in irritable habits, was averse to mucli bleeding, and recommended bark. Abcr- nethy believed the erysipelatous group to be pro- duced rather by something wrong in the constitution of the patient, which predisposed, and particularly disorder of the digestive organs, than by inocula- tion of poison. He gave alteratives, and was averse to bleedirg. ] The most modem advocate (. bleeding is, or was, Mr. Lawrence, whose opinion at the date 1828 were that as erysipelas resemble other inflammations in its causes, symptoms aivl eftects, it should be treated on the same princ'iples ■ that IS, on the antiphlogistic plan. Venesection' local bleeding, purging, and low diet are the first measures, to which saline and diaphoretic medi- cmes may be afterwards added. He says, the earlier these means are employed the better : vigorous treatment in the beginning seems to hira most calculated to shorten the attack, and prevent the disease from spreading beyond its original seat. At the same time, he admits, that as the skin and cellular texture are of secondary importance, it is not so urgently necessary to arrest inflammation in them, as in the vital organs; neither does the same reason for very active treatment exist as in afi'ections of the eye, where a slight change of structure may seriously impair the utility of the organ essential to our comfort and pleasure ; but the extensive suppuration and mortification, which erysipelas sometimes produces, may render a limb, in'a great measure, totally useless, or may even destroy life. " The disposition of erysipelas to terminate by re- solution, is another reason against resorting indis- criminately to active depletion. In many cases, the disease passes through a certain course, and ends spontaneously : it is sufiicient to put the patient on low diet, to clear the alimentary canal, and then to use mild aperients and diaphoretics. When it proceeds, as it often does, from an im- healthy condition of the alimentary canal, the re- moval of the internal disorder leads to the cessation of the local complaint. It must, however, be ob- served, that venesection is sometimes useful both in curing the internal cause and in promoting the termination by resolution." Mr. Lawrence after- wards observes, that he does not mean to recom- mend that measures equally active, and, in parti- cular, that bleeding, whether general or local, are to be employed in all cases. In young persons, in the robust, and tliose of full habit; in instances where the pulse is full and strong, or where there is headache and white tongue; in erysipelas of the head, attended with symptoms denoting aflFec- tion of the sensorium, and more especially in the very beginning of the aft'ection, venesection will be proper ; and it may be necessary to bleed i.-u-gely, to repeat the evacuation, or to_follow venesection by local abstraction of blood. Under such circum- stances, the other parts of the antiphlogistic plan must also be employed, that is, the alimentary canal should be cleared by an active purgative, which may be followed by salines and antimonials, with the occiisional use of milder aperients; and low diet should be enjoined. As Mr. Lawrence adds, no- thing can be more difl'erent from such a case, than that of an elderly person, with a small and feeble pulse, in the advanced stage of the disease. The interval between these extremes is filled by numer- ous gradations, requiring corresponding modifica- tions of treatment. The antiphlogistic phan itself embraces a wide range in point of degree ; from blood-letting local and general, with purging, vomit- ing, the free use of mercur3'and antimony, and low diet, to the exhibition of a mild aperient, with some saline medicine. Mr. Lawrence believes, that the treatment of erysipelas, like that of any other in- flammation, should be modified according to the age, constitution, previous health, and habits of the