iutolernblej pains radiated ; temporary relief re- sulted, but the case ended fatally. Cauterisation of tlie wound under chloroform, (and of both sides of the neck and chest, Wayiiei;') have also been tried without favourable results. The treatment by chloroform has been much canvassed. Rey- nolds (Netv York Journal, Ju]y, 1856), Sabatier, and Pickells (loc. cit.), have observed it to increase the respiratory spasm, and muscular convulsions. But Wagner, in an able article, defends its employ ment, as at least promoting euthanasia. (Deutsche Klinik, 1856.)] Dr. Mead, who was very confident that he had found an infallible preventive of the disease in a little liverwort and black pepper, aided by bleeding and cold bathing before the commencement of the course of medicine, says: "As to all other ways of curing the hydrophobia, I own I have not been so happy as to find any success from the many I have tried. Bathing at this time is ineffectual. I have taken away large quantities of blood, have given opiates, volatile salts, &c. All has been in vain, because too late." Notwithstanding his dia appointment, he concludes: "If any relief could be expected in this desperate state I think it would be from bleeding, even ad animi deliquiiim, &c." The doctrines of Boerhaave also led him and liis pupils to recommend and to practise bleeding in hydrophobia. " The distemper (says he) is to be treated as one highly inflammatory,'upon the first appearance of the signs which denote its invasion, by blood-letting from a large orifice, continued till the patient faints away, and soon after by ene- mata of warm water and vinegar," &c.; and he adds, " that this practice is supported by some small number of trials." But the particulars of the suc- cess alluded to are not given. Dr. Shoolbred finds that a trial of it was made at Edinburgh, more than sixty years ago, by Dr. Rutherford, who took away gradually sixty ounces of blood from a patient who had already been bled the same morning. As the* patient lived forty, eight hours after the large bleeding, the method was probably tried somewhat early in the disease, and the case may therefore be set down as a fair instance of the failure of the practice. The trials which have been made in this country of the prac- tice of bleeding in cases of hydrophobia, since the receipt of the above reports from India, I am sorry to say, have not confirmed its efficacy. Bleeding was also recommended in cases of bydroptiobia by Poupart. (See IHM. de VAcad. Eoyale dea Sciences pour I'annee 1699, p. 48.) The practice is likewise mentioned in the Medical Essays of Edinburgh, vol. v. part. ii. ยง 5; and in the writings of Dr. Rush. (See also Dr. Burton's case, Phd. Mag. Aug. 1805.) [Marochetti's treatment by the genista tinctoria has had no success. The pustules under the tongue of which he spoke have not been discovered, even when looked for as he directs, not during the hydrophobic attack, but within a few days after the receipt of the bite. Among the latest remedies advised are the ce- tonia aurata, on which a committee of the French Academy reported in 1857, and which Eulen- berg considers to possess nervine tonic properties {Freus. Ver.-Zeil. N.F.I. 2, 1858); a decoction of the leaves of stramonium, and finally woorara. The latter has been employed by Dr. Sibson, in a case which occurred at St, Mary's Hospital, without HYDROPHOBIA, 1066 success, but with results which he considered to be somewhat encouraging. The review of all the means hitherto employed in the cure of hydrophobia, and of all the deduc- tions from accumulated observations of its symp- toms and pathology, unhappily yields us no positive indications for any really curative treatment. The prophylaxis by excision of the wound, and the application of the cupping glass, as recommended by Sir David Barry, is the most important pro- ceeding. Heroic general remedies, such as trans- fusion, bleeding ad deliquium, and salivation, have not yielded results equal to the hopes excited by the narratives of the physicians who have recom- mended them. The treatment which is alike in- dicated by the symptoms and pathology, and favoured by the records of the six successful cases, would avoid violent measures of all kinds, and, while endeavouring to keep this side of stimula- tion, would seek to support the rapidly failing vital power by injections of nutritious fluids, under chloroform, while the anaesthetic and other nar- cotics were carefully administered. Purgatives have in all these six cases been administered with benefit. It unfortunately remains yet for some future student of disease to discover a reliable remedy for hydrophobia.] Ernest Hurt. Jos. de Aromatarius, De Rabie Contao;iosa, 4to. Francof. 1626. Sauvages, Sur la Rage, 12mo. Paris, 1771. .Tames, On Canine Madness, 8vo. Lond. 1780. Mead, On the Bite of a Mad Dog-. Jos. S. Dalby, The Virtues of Cinnabar and Musk, against the Bite of a Mad Dog-, 4to. Birmingli. 1764. J. Heysham, De Rabie Canina, Edinb. 1777. B. F. MUnch, De Bella- donna, Frank. Del. op. 1. V. P. Layard, Essay on the Bite of a Mad Dog, 2nd edit. 1763. R. Hamilton, Hemarks oft Hydrophobia, 2nd ed. 2 vols. 8vo. Lond. 1798. Medical Museum, vol. ii. Lond. Med. Trans, vols. ii. and iv. ed. 2. Med. Obs. and Inq. vol. iii.; and Fothergitl, in vol. v. of the same work. C. Nugent, Essay on Hydrophobia, to which is pre- fixed, the Case of a Person cured, 8vo. Lond. 1753. he Roux, Sur la Rage, 8vo. Dijon, 1780. Idem, Traite- ment local de la Kage, 8vo. Paris, 1783. Edinb. Med. Comment, vol. v. p. 42. J. Vauqhan's Cases and Obs. on Hydrophobia, 8vo. Lond. 1778. Dr. Powell's Case of Hydrophobia. Latta's System of Surgery, vol. iii. Cullen's First Lines, vol. iv. Enaux et Chausier Metliode de Traitor les Morsures des Animaax en- rages, &c. 12mo. Dijon, 1780. Memoirs of the Med Society of London, vol. i. p. 243. Medical Communi- cations, vol. i. J. Mease, An Essay on the Disease produced by the Bite of a Mad Dog, with a Preface &c., by J. C. Lettsom, 8V0. Philadelphia, 1793. M^m de la Soci^td Royale de M^decine de Paris, pour Pari 1782 et 1783. Perriar's Med. Facts and Observations and his Med. Histories, &c. 2nd ed. 8vo. Lond. 181o' Catlisen's Systema Chirurgite Hodierna;, t. i. p 593' Hulnix, 1798. Marcct, in Med. Cliir. Trans, vol.'i p' 132, &c. Jesse Fuote, An Essay on the Bite of a siad Dog, 8vo. Lond. 1788. Lassus, Pathologic Chir t ii p. 239, &c., ed. 1809. A valuable Paper by JDr' j' Hunter, in Trans, of a Society for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, vol. i. art. 17. James Gitltnan'B Dissertation on the Bite of a Rabid Animal 8vo. Lond. 1812. S. Bardsley, in Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester vol. iv. part 2. Medical Reports, &c.; to which are added, An Inquiry into the Origin of Canine Mad- ness, and Thoughts on a Plan for its Extermination from the British Isles, 8vo. Lond. 1807. Babinnton in the Medical Records and Researches, Lond. 1798 'r Pearson, Arguments in favour of an Inflammatorv Uiathcsis in Hydrophobia considered, Birininirli 1798. Art. Ilydronhobia in Rees's Cyclopa;dia m' Ward, Facts establishing the Efficacy of the Opiate Frictionin Spasmodic and Febrile Diseases: also an Attempt to investigate the Nature, Causes, and Method of Cure of Hydrophobia and Tetanus 8vo Manchester, 1809. Cases and Cures of Hydrophobia! selected from the Gentleman's Magazine, 8vo Lone 1807. G. Pinokwd, Case of Hydrophobia, Svo. Lond.