1076 HYPER.EMIA. spinal cord and its nerves, should be employed (C. E. Brown Sequarcl, in tlie Lancet, 18G0); and opium, strychnine and other remedies which oc- casion hyperaemia of the contents of the vertebral canal should be avoided. (See art. Toxemia.) The treatment of passive hyperasmia involves some important principles in therapeutics. It is found, experimentally, that where hyperEemia has been produced by division of the sympathetic nerve, galvanizing the upper end of the divided nerve causes not only the disappearance of the hyperEemia, but an opposite state of the vessels. Where hypera:mia has been produced by depress- ing influences applied to the skin, stimulating the sensitive organ originally affected is frequently curative. Where pain and passive hyperaemia coexist, as in some sore throats, stiff necks, intes- tinal pains and diarrhoea, the Linimentum Saponis cum Opio, or the Linim. AmmonicE cum Opto, is often curative. If the theory of palsy in hyperemia be admitted, the beneficial action of these stimu- lants, and of copaiba in vesical catarrh, turpentine in htemorrhage and asthenic iritis, and arsenic in skin diseases, is explicable on the principle of their exciting the contractility of the capillaries, and diminishing the supply of blood to the part. For the purpose of exciting the contractility of the capillaries, 'and diminishing morbid hyperajmia, quinine and iron are administered; and being re- ceived into the blood, are conveyed to the seat of the disease; hence the beneficial effect of quinine in scrofulous ophthalmia. In the general treatment of strictly passive hyperemia, stimulants, astringents, and tonics, are employed. In the worst forms, occurring in low fevers and malignant diseases, with a dissolved state of the vital constituents of the blood, atony of the vessels, and great debility, the most powerful diffusible stimulants, as the ethers, alcohol, ammonia, bark and camphor, are indicated. In all such cases the general condition of the system must be considered, and in addition to the principle of directing the application of stimulants to the vessels of the affected part, every measiure must be resorted to for the purpose of restoring strength and vigour to the circulation. Where, in such dis- eases, there is a tendency to hyperEemia of the lungs, and other dependent organs, from the gravita- tion of the blood, attention to appropriate changes of position, with the administration of the most powerful internal stimulants, will often produce the most beneficial results, and even preserve life. Where habitual hyperceniia has existed for some time, or has been produced by repeated inflam- matory attacks, or excessive functional activity, and great debility has ensued, it is often very difficult to restore the contractility of the vessels, hence the obstinacy of chronic hyperajmia of the urethra, vagina, or bronchial tubes, which cannot strictly be regarded as cases of urethritis, vaginitis and bron- chitis, the exudations being referrible to this patho- logical condition or to exaggerated function of the respective parts. These cases also often admit of the use of the most powerful general and local stimu- lants, and particularly such as have a specific action on the part affected—hence the use of cubebs, copaiba, cantharides, turpentine and the resins, ergot, strychnia, mercury, alcohol, and many other powerful medicines, llyperromias, whether active or passive, which result from poisons or usrinionieB circulating with the blood, as in gout. rheumatism. Syphilis, lepra, with the local treat- ment which each case specially requires, demand the use of antidotes and evacuants. If these general remedies were resorted to before the hyperasmia merges into inflammation with all its consequences, the latter would often be superseded. (See Hyperinosis ; Inflammation; Svpiiilis; ToXiEMIA; TUBEHCULO.SIS; Uk^MIA; &C. &C.)] Henry Ancell, In addition to the references appended to the article on the Pathology of the' Blood consult—Cop- land's Dictionary of Medicine and the Cyclopajdia of Practical Medicine, art. Conffeslion; A Manual of Patholoe;. Anatomy, by C. Handfield Jones, M. B. and E. H. Sieveking, M. D. 1854; C. Handfield Jones, Lancet, July 1855; I'eb. 1859; J. Z))'i<)«)«o)i(/, Cyclop. Anatom.and Physiol, art. Sympathetic Nerve ; Le90us sur la Physiol, et la Patholog. du Syst&me nerveux, par M. Claude Bernard, iParis 1858; Lister, Trans- actions of the Royal Society, No. 32, p. 367. [HYPERINOSIS (from iivhp and h, lA,s, the fibrine of flesh). The fibrinous crasis o/'t/ui blood. Diathesis Phlogistica {Cullen, First Lines, vol. i. p. 105, 206). Ijiflammation of the blood {Auo. var). This morbid state of the blood is so well defined, and is involved in so man}' sui'gical diseases, and the term is now so generally employed by patholo- gists, that we have thought it necessary to treat it separately, and in extenso, under the present head. In this, as in other articles on the blood, but little regard can be paid to the conventional distinc- tion of its medical and surgical relations. (See Blood, Pathology of; Fever; HYPERiEuiA; Inflammation; Toxaemia; Wounds, <5-c.) In hyperinosis the blood is of a high temperature, being frequently two or three degrees above the na- tural standard, and havuig been known to reach 112° Fah. ; its volume is, in a corresponding degree, aug- mented ; it reaches the veins of a bright colour, and is more highly oxygenised than ordinaiy, and the whole of its molecular actions, and accordingly its vi- tality are increased. Tiie liquor sanguinis contains an excess of fibrine, and is more viscid than natural ; the white corpuscles are very frequently, and the fatty matter is occasionally, increased; the red corpuscles are diminished in proportion; \h& solid constituents taken together are diminished, and the specific gravitj' is below the natural standard. {Animal Chemistry, by J.F. Simon, vol. i. p. 251.) Examined microscopically the red corpuscles are smaller, flatter, darker, and of a higher specific gravity than in health (J. P. Henncssy, Dublin Hosp. Gaz. Nov. 15, 1857); they exhibit an in- creased attraction for each other, with a tendency to run together in rouleaux, and to form wider meshes than in healthy blood {Wharton Jones); and the increase in the proportion of white corpuscles is often found to be very great. A film of such blood spread on glass often presents a mottled appearance of red and white to the naked eye (John Hunter). Drawn from a vein, hyperinotic blood does not so soon lose its natural translucenc)', and the pro- cess of coagulation commences later, although it has sometimes been found to proceed more rapidly, so that it becomes complete as soon as usual. The clot, if not large, is rarely small, and the fibrine being liighly contractile is very firm and consistent, with its edge often turned up, rendering the surface ac- cordinif to its diameter more or less concave. 1 lie scrum is of a pure leraoii colour, free irora nny