476 dence to enable me to decide. Daily reports of the practice and ,ts effects may enable nfe at a '^'^ P"''"'^ t° it before army surgeons." Ur. VValker does not mention the means he employed to produce purulent ophthalmia, neither does he clearly specify the cases. A severe case of pannus,when inoculated with gonorrhceal matter requires some two to four months to recover the transpai-ency of the cornea. Macicenzie (edit. 4, 1854) says :—« The idea of curing granular conjunctiva by excitino' in the diseased membrane the inflammatory action of an acute attack of purulent ophthalmia, to be treated by venesection and other remedies, was first smr- gested by my friend, the late Dr. Henry Walker I he method of e.v-citing such an inflammation^ adopted by Professor Jaeger and Dr. Pirino-er is to inoculate the conjunctiva with matter "taken trom the eye of a child affected with mild oph- thalmia neonatorum. The matter is applied to the nis.de of the lids, with a miniature pencil, and in a few hours produces its effect ; the in- flammation thus excited is to be treated like an ordinary attack of purulent ophthalmia, and al- though the practice does by no means appear a very sale one, it is undeniable that cures have m this way been effected," &c. &c. For a full account of this practice, I refer the reader to a paper by Dr. Hamilton, in the London and Edin- 1843 '^^""'''"'^ Journal of Medical Science for July, Some fifty cases of pannus have thus been treated by Jaeger and Piringer ; others by Desmarres, Tallot and Hairion, Dudgeon, &c. Those cases (some fourteen) which have been" treated by inoculation of gonorrhoea! matter, at the Ophthalmic Hospital, are progressing very favourably; some have already recovered a normal transparency of the cornea. Only cases where the- whole of the cornea is obscured by a vascular network should be inoculated ; the treatment of these cases consists in feeding the patient well, and letting the gonorrhceal ophthalmia run its course. _ Upon the subject of purulent and of granular inflammation of the conjunctiva consult PiV%ej- Die Bknnorrlioe am Menschenauge, Graiz, 184]- ZeiUchrift der K. K. Oesellschaft der Aerzte xi'i Wien ; Seitz, Handbicch der Gesammien Augen- heilkunde, Erhwgcn, 1855, S. 30 und S. 33- Gracfe, Archiv. fir Opldh. 1 Bd. 1 Abtii. S. 1C8,' etc.; Ann. d'Octd., vol. xi. p. 20; Mildner, Prager Vierkijdhrschrift, 13 Bd.; Loiscau, Annul. d'Ocul. vol. IV. 1840, p. 41 ; liosas, Ilandbtich der Theor. und I'ract. Aw/enheiMe, 2 Bd. 1830, S. 130- Zeitsch-ift fur 'Ophth. 3 Bd. S. 235 ; Grdz, uber die Sogenannle Egijptiscltc. Augenentzundiing, etc., Wien, 1850, S. 103 ; Slcllwag von Carion, Zeit- schrift der K. K. GcseUshuft der Acrxle zii Wien, 1851, 2 Bd. S. .017; Cuvicr, Ann. d'Ocul. vol. xx. p. 152. Strumous Ophthalmia.—The distinguishing pe- culiarity of this disease is intolerance of light, or photophobia. This symptom often exists in a Slight degree in ordinary ophthalmia, and at all periods ol hfe ; but in strumous cases it becomes tlie distinguishing feature, and is sometimes so utense and distressing as to cause spasmodic tlosure of the eyelids, shading of tiio eyes, and avoidance of light; and even in extreme cases the poor little sufferer seems to find and to shrink CONJUNCTIVITIS. from some faint remnant of lieht even wherp -,11 IS apparent darkness. Thus hf will forsake th active habits natural to childhood and will bt v an n^ss 'an? i'°r' " ^'^'^'"^ to o't?r aarkness, and so he will remain, with but little mtermission, for weeks and even months This distressing symptom is probably due to a morbid excited state of the retina, or [hat section o the fifth pan- of nerves devoted to the ophthalmic apparatus the stimulus to which, even in its leT t appreciable state, is light. It has the powe of ^aching uself to any form of ophthalmia, ho "Iver mild or however severe. The circumstances and constitutional peculiarities that give birth to stru- mous ophthalmia are as various'as the disease to which ,t gives Us name. Sometimes we find a everish condition with dry skin, restlessness, foul tongue, costiveness and loss of appetite ; or, again, there may be aphtha, about the lips and mouth head and face P^^-spirations, eruptions about the This group of constitutional symptoms frequently follows one or other of the exanthemata, in which case there will generally be evidence of irritation ot all the mucous surfaces, the discharge from the nose and eyes is profuse and acrid, the ala of the nose red and excoriated, the eyelids and lips swollen, and the general condition very distressing In other cases the face is pallid, the pulse feeble, the extremities cold, and the condition anemic and indicative of want of power. On making an examination locally, the eyelids are found spas- modically closed, so that any inspection of the condition of the eye is extremely difficult, and sometimes almost impossible, except under the influence of chloroform. The state of the lids is often a reliable index to that of the eye; if thev are swollen and red, we may suspect that some acute ophthalmia, and perhaps ulceration of the cornea exist; if, on the other hand, they are quite natural in colour and size, we may rest satisfied that very little mischief has taken place It IS always undesirable to make a forcible examina- tion of the case, for if a deep ulcer exist, it may cause serious mischief; it always increases the irritability of the little patient, and it generally happens that after many efforts no really satisfac tory view of the eye is obtained. The objections to a periodicity of the photophobia are that some of the most severe cases have no period of inter- mission, and also that the hour at which the photophobia subsides so exactly corresponds with the setting of the sun, that it is diflicult to avoid regarding the two events in the light of cause and effect, which does not quite realise our previous no- tions of intermittent disease. At the same time It must be admitted that cases occasionallv come before our notice, in which the contrast is so very remarkable between the intensity of the intolerance of light during the day and the perfect emanci- pation from every symptom of the kind, so soon as the shades of evening appear, that we can scarcelv ascribe the change entirely to the diminution of light, and it seems more probable that it is in some measure due to a feeble and excitable nervous sj-s- teiii, assuming its periods of e.xacerbationand repose. Trcalmcni: Even with the clearest views, and after large experience, our treatment must often be tentative and empiiical. It naturally divides itself into constitutional and local, which may be dwelt upon separately, for the sake of arrangement,