30 AMAUROSIS. every such instance, wlioro the sliglitest doubt exists, he recommends the eye not to be actively exerted. For additional observations on the distinctions between incipient cataract and amaurosis, and glaucoma, see Cataract and Glaucoma. Besides the above appearances of the pupil and amaurosis is attended with other character- ins, . . istic plienomena, which occur under cert;im cir cumstances, in the form, texture, and state of other parts of the eye, and adjoining organs Thus, the patient oftens complains of a peculiar troublesome dryness of the eye, or of a sensation as if the eyeball were about to be pressed out ol its socket; and, indeed, says Beer, one may some- times hear a grating noise, and distinguish a fluc- tuation in the orbit behind the eyeball, when this organ is pressed upon by the finger, or moved in various directions, though neither its circumfer. enee be enlarged, nor any tendency to exophtlial- mia be really present. Nor is it very uncommon to find the affected eye preternaturally hard, sott, or even quite flaccid ; but it is less common to find the dimensions of the globe of the eye increased than the organ affected with atrophj-. (Beer, vol. cit. p. 43U.) . However, in organic amaurosis, a peculiar bluish gray tint of the sclerotic coat is frequently remarkable ; and sometimes even a degree of bulgin" on one or more sides of the eye, or simply a loss of sphericity, its sides appearing flattened. A turgescence of the superficial vessels, espe- cially of the long fasciculi of conjunctival veins is likewise another symptom, frequently observed in organic amaurosis, (See Travers's Synopsis, p. 146.) . , r A- In this work are given the particulars of a disj section, in whicli a case of amaurosis was attended with a collapse of the retina from absorption ot the vitreous humour. Some of the principal morbid effects ot amau- rosis have been already described in speaking ot the several defects of vision, which accompany an amaurotic weakness of sight. Besides these, how- ever, there are others meriting attention. J? or instance, the patient feels in the eye and surround- in.^ parts an irksome sensation, without any actual pahi, and complains of a remarkable sense of ful- ness or weight in the organ. Amaurotic pa .en s are also frequently attacked with sudden violent giddiness, usually ending in a considerable dimi- nution of the eyesight, and sometimes in severe general headacli. Occasionally they tancy tliat small atoms of dust are lodged under the eyelids, and are fearful of moving these parts, or the eye. It is also well known, that many persons become amaurotic while labouring under severe hemicra- nia, extending from, or to, the diseased ej-e ; while, on other occasions, the most violent pains are confined, particulariy to the region of the eye- brow and have the appearance of being strictly periodical. In certain other cases, the pain is wandering, and shoots in every direction about the eyebrow. These painful feelings often pre- cede the amaurotic blindness a considerable time, and often first lake place when one or both eyes are alrcadv blind ; but the pains and loss of s,gl,t arc not uiifrequently produced together Lastly, some patients are met with, in wlmm the worst vZb only last until the amaurosis is perfoct y Ced when they gradually and permanently cease. In all these painful cases of amaurosis, the pain and the blindness chiefly depend upon the same cause, and one is seldom the occasion of the other. Sometimes amaurotic patients experience such violent pain, that they lose their senses, and grow delirious ; but, in these cases, if we can credit the assertion of Beer, important morbid changes in the bones of the skull, or the brain itself, are invariably noticed after death, (See Lehre von dan Augenkr. b. ii. p. 439.) In some amaurotic patients, lethargic symptoms may be remarked ; in others, restlessness ; and, more rarely, delirium in all its degrees, either as a transient or peraianent affection. According to the observations of Mr. Travers, pain in the forehead and temples is a precursory symptom of amaurosis, diminishing in proportion as the dimness increases. When the amaurosis is perfect, it usually ceases altogether, if the disease has its scat in the eyehaU. But when the pain is severe, remits imperfectlj^ and is quickly ren- dered worse bv exercise, it is usually connected with organic disease of the brain. In this case, derangement and torpor of the primfe vioe, loss of strength and flesh, disposition to stupor, occasional confusion of intellect, inaptitude to exertion, and paralysis of one or more muscles, will be con- comitant symptoms. {Sijnopsis, 4-c. p. 167.) _ Dr. Mackenzie observes that amaurosis with- out pain generally depends on atrophy of the optic nerves. If it be attended with pain either constant or intermittent, there is probably some organic affection of the brain, or cause of pressure within the cranium. From a careful investigation of the seat, extent, and nature of the pain, we may often arrive at a probable conclusion respecting the state of the cerebral circulation, or we may obtain evidence of the existence of some deposition or formation within the head causing pressure. (Ed. 4, p. 1028.) Paralytic appearances may precede amaurosis, either in the vicinity of the eye, or in the muscles of the face, or in a distant situation, as the ex- tremities. Sometimes they accompany the dis-- ease, and sometimes closely follow the weakness of sight, being not unfrequently the forerunners of a fatal attack of apoplexy. In the same way, convulsive symptoms may be conioined with amaurosis ; and when they first occur in the complete stage of the latter disease, Beer pronounces them a very unfavorable omen for the patient's life. Likewise, when in a case of perfect amaurosis, several of the other senses are affected ; when the hearino- and then the smell and taste are lost, and atterwards the memory and other intellectual powers fail, the patient's speedy dissolution may be expected. (See Lehre von den AugcnhwM. h. ii. p. 441, Wicn. 1817.) Causes of Amaurosis. In some cases, the cause is of a local, direr/ and mechanical nature; such as the pressure of a tumour on the optic nerve. In o hers, it is of a 0™/ but vital k nd ; such as a ,,lethonc or con- iested ate of the blood-vessels of the brain or eve In a third set of cases, the cause is general oleonstilulional ; such as to profuse or continued loss of some of the fluids of the body. (See Mackenzie on Dis. of the Eye, p. noi, cdiS.)