FRACTURE. 39, ed. 2 Larrei,, Mim. da Chirurgie MiUiaire, t. Baron Dupuytrea deemed the removal of one end ot the fracture sufficient, and gives two cases J,'^" the plan succeeded ; one of a thigh-bone, the other of a lower jaw. In the latter instance, however, he scraped away the ligamentous texture from the anterior fragment. (See Journ. Univ. des ■ Sciences Mkl. t. ix. 1820; and ain. Cliir. t iv. n 667, 8vo. Paris, 1834.) The difficulties, the danger, and the frequent ill success of White's operation, had rendered another mode of treatment extremely desirable, when Dr Physick of New York suggested the plan of intro- ducing a seton through the preternatiu-al joint, with the view of exciting inflammation, and brineins about the union of the bone. It was, in fact, a practice founded on Hunter's principles. Dr. Physick had an opportunity of performing the new operation on the 18th of December, 1802, in an example of disunited humerus, twenty months after the occurrence of the accident. " Before passin<^ the needle (says Dr. Physick), I desired the as°- sistants to make some extension of the arm, in order that the seton might be introduced as much as possible between the ends of the bone. Some lint and a pledget were applied to the orifices made by the seton-needle, and secured by a roller. The patient suffered very little pain from the operation. After a few days the inflammation (which was not greater than what is commonly excited by a similar operation through the flesh of any other part) was succeeded by a moderate suppuration. The arm was now again extended, and splints applied. The dressings were renewed daily for twelve weeks, during which time no amendment was perceived ; but soon afterwards the bending of the arm at the' fracture was observed not to be so easy as it had been, and the patient complained of much more pain than usual, whenever an attempt was made to bend it at that place. From this time the formation of the new bony union went on rapidly, and on the 4th of May, 1803, was so perfectly completed that the patient could move his arm in all directions as ■well as before the accident happened. The seton ■was now removed, and the small sores occasioned by it healed up entirely in a few days. On the 28th of May, 1803, he was discharged from the hospital perfectly well, and he has since repeatedly told me his arm is as strong as ever it was." {Physich, in Medical Repository, vol. i. New York ) In the London Medical Repository for Aug. 18-23, a case is also noticed, in which Dr. Physick cured an ununited fracture of the lower jaw by means of a seton. On this subject an interesting memoir was read by Laroche to the Ecole de M^dccine at Paris (Germinal, an 13). It was entitled " Dissertation sur la non-reunion de quelques fractures, et en par- ticulier de celles du bras, et sur un moyen nouveau deguerir lesfausses articulations qui en rlsultent." The author of tliis production affirms, that when he was at Augsberg, he saw Baron Percy, then with the army of the Rhine, pass a seton through tlie imperfectly healed cicatrix of a componud tracture of the thigh, which fracture seemed to 'i.ive lost all disposition to unite. The method answered so well, that in two months the patient was able to walk without crutches. Sir Benjamin Brodie has successfully employed tue seton in a case of ununited fracture of the thigh. The patient was a boy about 13. (See Med. Chir Trans, vol. v. p. 387, &c.) [He has subsequently recorded three other eases m which he employed this method. One of thc-e three, a case of fractured clavicle of some years' standing succeeded perfectly, but the other two ailed In one of them, a man with ununited frac- ture of the thigh, the seton caused so much constitu- tional disturbance that it became necessary to remove it In the other, although it was left in tor several months, it produced no beneficial eft'ect. 1846 )]•"''''* P^i^'o^m and Surgery, p. 131. In this country the same operation has been practised for the cure of a disunited humerus by Mr. Stansfield of Leeds. (See op. cit. vol. vii p. I03„ &c.) It appears, also, that Sir Charies Jiell applied the method to a fracture of the leg at the time when M. Roux was in England The patient was a child six years old, and the broken bones had continued without union three years. The case had been originally mistaken by some unskilful surgeon for a mere contusion. The result IS not stated. (Parable de la Chir. Avgloisc, See p. 195.) In University College Hospital, Mr. Liston lately employed a seton for an ununited fracture of the radius and ulna. The result was successful in reference to the latter bone. After cutting down to the fracture, he destroys the liga- mentous connections as much as possible, and then passes the seton, which he takes out again sooner than is usually done. We are not to expect that Dr. Physick's oper- ation will succeed in every instance. Like most other surgical means, it is liable to occasional failures, amongst which, I believe, we must in- clude the attempt, made on a disunited thigh by Mr. Wardrop (see Med. Chir. Trans, vol. v, p. 365), though a partial amendment is mentioned. In a case recorded by Mr. Aniesbur.y, the seton did not answer. Mr. A. C. Hutchinson was also obliged to take out the seton, in a case of ununited humerus, and only partial benefit was effected. (See Practical Obs. p. 389, ed. 2.) Three instances of failure were seen by Mr. Amesbury {On Fractures, p. 224), and an additional one has been recorded by Mr, Earle. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xii. p. 195.) In the same case, and also in another, which I saw under this gentleman's care, the plan of cutting down to the ends of the fracture, and rubbing them with caustic potash, was tried, but without success. The result of the practice -with the seton is, that it has sometimes succeeded in the upper extremi- ties ; but that, where it has been performed on the lower ones, so far as Sir Benjamin Brodie has been able to ascertain, it has only answered in n single instance, which was that of a patient under him in St. George's Hospital. " Dr. Dorsey (who was Dr. Physick's nephew), in the last letter which I had from him before his death, informed me as the result of the operations with the seton in the United States, that it had generally succeeded in the upper limbs, but that it had nlw.iys failed in ., the lower.'' lie added that " in the former case it was often necessary to keep the seton in for se- veral months " (op. et vol. cit.) M. Portal, however, surgeon to the Palermo Hospital, cured by the seton an ununited fracture of the upper third of the femur in a child two years old. (Sec Archives