CATARACT. 429 fers this construction, Lut witli the point slightly curved, the neck round, and surface broad enough to act upon the lens in depression, or reclination. (See Middlcmorc, On Diseases of the Ei/e, vol. ii. p. 158.) Scarpa's needle, made quite straight, is an eligible instrument ; and Beer's small spcar-pointed needle, which is sold at almost every sliop for sur- gical instruments, deserves all the reputation which it possesses. Full dilatation of the pupil is a point of the first importance. Many operators apply the moistened extract of belladonna to the eyebrow on the evening before and on the morning of the operation ; [but the best application is a solution of atropine to the eye itself.] The upper eyelid is to be raised and held steady against the superciliary ridge by means of the index and middle fingers of the assistant, who stands behind the patient and supports his head, while the operator draws down the lower eyelid himself with the fore and middle fingers of the hand not engaged with the needle. Supposing the eye about to be operated upon, is the left, the surgeon's fingers employed for depressing the lower lid should project a little bej'ond the margin of the tarsus ; the index finger being situated towards the external cantlms, and the middle one towards the carnncula lachrymalis, so that the movements of the eyeball upwards and inwards may be con- trolled. The couching-needle (if the curved one be used) is to be held with its convexity forward, its point backward, and its handle parallel to the patient's temple. The surgeon, having directed the patient to turn the eye toward the nose, is to introduce the instrument boldly through the sclerotic coat, at the distance of one sixth of an inch from the margin of the cornea, for fear of injuring the ciliary processes. Nor is it a matter of indifference at what height the needle is introduced, if it be desirable to avoid as much as possible effusion of blood in the opera- tion. Anatomy reveals to us that the long ciliary artery pursues its course to the iris along the mid- dle of the external convexity of the eyeball, between the sclerotic and chloroid coats; and hence, in order to avoid this vessel, it is prudent to introduce the instrument one line below the transverse diameter of the pupil. If the couching-needle w'ere intro- duced liigher than the tract of the long ciliary artery, it would be inconvenient for the depression of the cataract. Beer divides both the operations of couching and reclination into three stages : the first is that in ■which the needle is introduced into the oye ; the second that in which it is passed into the posterior chamber, and placed across the anterior surface of the cataract ; and the third that in which the depression or reclination of the cataract is accom- plished. If a straight, slender, spear-pointed needle be used, and the second stage of the operation be com- pleted by the introduction of the extremity of the instrument into the posterior chamber (which I par- ticularly recommended to be done in the manner directed by Scarpa), then, according to the direc- tions given by Professor Beer, when depression is indicated, the needle is to be immediately carried to the uppermost part of the cataract, with its point directed somewhat obliquely downwards; and,with that surface, which, in the first instance, was applied to the front of the lens, now placed upon its superior edge; then the opaque body is to be pushed rather obliquely downwards and outwards, so far below the pupil that it can no longer be distinguished. After this has been done, the needle is to be gently raised, in order to see whether the cataract will continue depressed ; and if it be found to do so, the needle is to be withdrawn in the same direction in which it was introduced. On the other hand, says Beer, when reclination is to be practised, the needle after being applied to the front surface of the cataract is not to be moved further out of the position of the second stage of the operation, but its handle is merely to be raised diagonally forwards, whereby the cataract will be pressed downwards and outwards to the bottom of the vitreous humour, and turned in the manner al- ready specified. Beer has delivered what appears to me one valuable piece of advice for operators on the eye Avith the needle : whether depression or reclination is to be done, says he, a surgeon can only use this instrument without injurious conse- quences on the principle of a lever ; and every at- tempt to press with the whole length of the instru- ment is not only ineffectual with respect to the progress of the operation, but so hurtful to the eye that bad effects must follow, as may be readily con- ceived when it is recollected how violentlj-the ciliary nerves must be stretched. As for the modifications of the manceuvres ren- dered necessary by the varieties of cataracts, they are (says Beer) so unimportant in all cases of de- pression that a young operator will easily under- stand them himself. But things are far otherwise in the practice of reclination ; for when the case is a completely formed capsulo-lentictilar cciiaract, aY\di the opaque capsule is so thin as to be torn during the turning of the lens, the latter body will indeed be placed in the intended position at the bottom of the eye, but the capsule itself, which has merely been lacerated, must form a secondary cataract, tmless the surgeon, with a sharp double-edged needle, im- mediately divide it in every direction, and remove it as far as possible from the pupil. When, during reclination, a softish Ions, or one which is puljiT/ to its very nucleus, breaks into several pieces, it is necessary, in order not to have afterwards a con- siderable secondary lenticular cataract, to put the larger fragments separately in a state of reclination, while the smaller ones may either be depressed, or (if the pupil be not too much contracted) they may be pushed into the anterior chamber, where they will soon be absorbed. When the cataract is par- iially adherent to the uvea. Beer recommends an endeavour to be first made, with the edge of the needle (which is to be introduced flat between the cataract and the uvea, above or below the adhesion) to separate the adherent parts before the attempt at reclination is made. Should it be a cataract which always rises again as soon as the needle is' taken from it, though the instrument has not pierced it at all, the case is termed the clastic cataract, in which the lens is not only firmly adherent to its own capsule, but this also to the membrana hya- loidea. Here Beer tliinks that the best plan is first to carry the needle to the uppermost point of the posterior surface of the lens, and by means of perpendicular movements of the cutting part of the instrument, to endeavour completely to loosen this preternatural adhesion of the cataract to the vitreous humour, when reclination may be tried again, and will periiaps succeed. But, says Beer, wlien tiio