ANUS. 260 Sir Benjamin Brodie, with reference to such ab- scesses as are formed high up by the side of the rectum, and above the sphincter. In such cases, in opening the abscess in the first instance, he directs the hincet to be carried through the skin, by the side of the anus, until the matter flows. Then a probe-pointed bistoury is to be introduced, and the rectum divided at the lower part of the abscess, and the incision carried through the sphincter. It is quite unnecessary to lay the whole abscess open into the rectum, and it might give rise to dangerous haemorrhage from vessels beyond the reach of the finger. {Brodie, op. et vol. cit. p. 186.) [In like manner, when the fistula extends up- wards by the side of the rectum, the internal orifice being in the usual situation, it Avill be sufficient to lay open the lower part of the fistula through the internal orifice into the bowel without interfering with the upper portion. It will be better, how- ever, in such a case, to carry the knife freely through the sphincter, in order that there may be a ready outlet at once for any matter that continues to be secreted,] Like all other mechanical injuries, operations for fistula may give rise to erysipelas, and in some rare examples, to traumatic tetanus. With respect to erysipelas, Sir Benjamin Brodie notices its occa- sional extension in a few instances up the mucous membrane of the rectum into other parts of the in- testinal canal; a formidable disease, the symptoms of which are peculiar, but not described by any other writer. " Tlie pulse (says Sir Benjamin Brodie) becomes very rapid, and, at the same time, weak then it is irregular and intermitting. The abdo men is tympanitic, hiccough takes place ; there is a great prostration of strength, and the pa- tient often dies in the course of three or four days, sometimes sooner." On one lady, the attack began when the wound of the operation was nearly healed lip, and she died in less than forty-eight hours. He considers that, in consequence of the great prostra- tion attendant on it, the disease demands the free exhibition of cordials and stimulants. (See Lond Med. Gjz. for 1835, 1836, p. 185.) Abscesses near the rectum frequently occur in patients who are labouring under tubercles and abscesses of the lungs. Hence, Sir Benjamin Brodie very properly recommends surgeons, before they operate on a patient for fistula, to ascertain whether the lungs are sound. "Persons with diseased liver, and other visceral diseases (he observes), are also liable to the formation of these abscesses. The distinction of tliese cases from others, which occur in otherwise healthy subjects, is very important, inasmuch as the practice, which is proper in the one case, is quite improper in the other." (See Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. cit. p. 28.) He adds, if the patient labour under visceral disease, it is seldom tliat the abscess will heal ; hut if it should, the visceral disease will make increased progress, and the patient die sooner if the operation be performed than if it were let alone, (p, 29.) Every well-informed surgeon will likewise coincide in the prudence of not operating for a fistula, if stricture or carcinoma of the rectum exist ; for, under these circumstances, the sinus will not heal, even if it be laid open. Le Bran's Operations ; Sharp's Operations ; La Faijc's Notes on Uionis. Jf. Hi'xs, D. Fistula Ani fe- liciter cinandn, in Ilalleri Disp. Cliir. 4, 433. .T. L. Petit, Traits dcsMal. Cliir. t. i. and ii. p. 113. Kirlc land's Medical Surgery, vol. ii. Some of the best prac- tical remarks ever published are contained in Pott't Treatise on the Fistula in Ano, in which he has offered also an excellent critique on the opinions of Le Dran, De La Faye, and Cheselden. Sabatier, Mdd. Op6- ratoire, t. ii. J. IJowship, Practical Obs. on the Dis- eases of the Lower Intestines, &c. chap. 6, ed. 3, Lond. 1824. T. Whatelij, Cases of Polypi, &c.; with an Ap- pendix, describiner an improved instrument lor the Fistula in Ano, 8vo. Lond. 1805. J. T. Oetzmann, De Fistula Ani, 4to. Jenje, 1812. JIokx, Voyage fait k Londres en 1814, ou Parullfele de la Chirurgie An- gloise avec la Chirurgie Fran?oise, p. 296, &c. Paris, 1815. Schreqer, Chirurgische Versiiche, b. ii. Ueber die Unterbiiidung der Mastdarmfisteln, p. 1,131. 8vo. Niirnberg, 1818. Jfo/Ac, Darstellung, &c. der After- fisteln, in Rust's Mag. b. i. s. 259. T. Ribes, Re- cherches sur la Situation de I'Orifice interne de la Fistule de I'Anus, et sur les parties dans I'epaisseur desquelles ces ulcferes ont leur siege, in Revue .M6d, His. et Phil. Paris, 1823, livr. i. p. 174. Fr. Reis. inqer, Darstellung eines neuenn Verfahrens die Mast- darmfistel zu unterbinden, &c. 8vo. Augsb. 1816. Sir Benjamin C. Brodie, in Lond. Med. Gaz. for 1835 and 1S36 ; and Lancet 1843—44. Velpeau, in Diet, de M^d. ed. 2, 1833. Art. Abces de I'Anus. Bus/ie,on Dis. of Rectum and Anus. New York, 1837. Syme, on Dis- eases of the Rectum, ed. 3rd, 1854. Fissures of the Anus, As they are termed, consist of longish superficial ulcerations near the anus, between the converging folds of the fine skin and mucous membrane. When the sides of the anus are separated, and the patient is desired to strain, a narrow fissure is seen, the bottom of which is red, and the margins somewhat swollen and callous. But, as Dupuy- tren observed, it is frequently necessary, for the purpose of ascertaining how high it reaches, to introduce the finger into the rectum. It is more commonly situated at the sides and back of the anus than at the fore part of it ; a favourable cir- cumstance in relation to an operation, particularly in women, in whom this opening is divided from the posterior commissure of the vulva only by a thin partition. The ulceration rarely aflects the whole thickness of the mucous membrane. (See Dtipui/- tren, Clinique Chir. t. iii. p. 283.) Fissure ot the anus is usually productive of violent lancinating or burning pain, which gradually augments, and lasts a considerable time after the patient has had a mo- tion In some cases, indeed, so extreme is the suffering, that the patient, from a dread of obey- m<r the call of nature, refuses to do so as long as pos- sible, or even nearly starves himself, to render the occasions for emptying the rectum less frequent. The severity of the case arises chiefly from ai painful spasm of the sphincter muscle. Baron Dupuvtren makes a very useful and practical division of fissures of the anus into_ three kinds Some are heloiv ilie sphincter, aftectmg hardly any texture but the skin, and not the mu- cous membrane. These excite more or less pru- ritus, but cause little obstruction to the passage of the feces. Fissures above the sphincter, involving the mucous membrane, can only be seen with the aid of a speculum. When the finger is passed into le rectum, a knotty hard cord is felt, and pressure cr tes acute pai"- When the patient goes to stool, such fissures give rise to an "'desc^ri^^^able sort of tenesmus, which censes directly after the evacuation ; and the excrement on the side nearest "^Z... is covered with puriform or nuicoi- Sh \he sphincter, are the worst, being attended