844 GUMS, TUMORS OF a true antidote, suspending for a time the progress ofcertam venereal symptoms, and removin' "the appearances altogether; but he observes, that ex- peuence has evinced, that the unsubdued virus yet remains active in the constitution. Mr. Pearson found guaiacum of little use in pains of the bones, except when it proved sudori- nc; but that it was then inferior to antimony, or ammonia. When the constitution has been im paired by mercury, and long confinement, a thick ened state of the ligaments, or periosteum, or foul ulcers, still remaining, Mr. Pearson says, these effects will often subside during the exliibition of the decoction. He says, it will often suspend, for a short time, the progress of certain secondarv symptoms of the lues venerea; for instance, ulcers ot the tonsils, venereal eruptions, and even nodes. JVlr. Pearson, however, never knew one instance m which guaiacum eradicated the virus; and he contends, that its being conjoined with mercury neither increases the virtue of this mineral, lessens its bad effects, nor diminishes the necessity of giv- ing a certain quantity of it. He has seen guaia- cum produce good effects in cutaneous diseases oza3na, and scrofulous affections of the mem- branes and ligaments. (See Pearson, On ilie Effects edit^'l'^loof 7'''^* m the Cure of Lues Venerea, [It will be observed, that the virtues attributed to guaiacum in the preceding article are manifested chiefly in the treatment of the tertiary order of sym- ptoms, or syphilitic cachexia, in which the iodide of potassium has of late years proved so eminently successful and almost superseded other remedies As regards the failure of guaiacum to eradicate all cachectic symptoms, this want of power is shared with iodide of potassium, mercury, sarsaparilla, and all other remedial means. (See Syphilis.)] GUMMA, a soft tumor, so named from the resemblance of its contents to gum. (See Syphi LIS.) pUMS, INFLAMMATION AND AB- SCESS OF. Gumboil. Parulis. Inflammation of the gums mostly arises from the irritation of ca- rious teeth, but sometimes from necrosis of a part of the alveolar process, or from the splintering'of It, occasioned by the extraction of a bad tooth. Sometimes it originates from exposure to cold, wuinstances from mechanical irritation! When the inflammation, arising from the irritation of a decayed tooth, cold, and some other causes proceeds to suppuration, the case is then an abscess' here termed a 5f?m6ot7. The treatment consists in making an early puncture for the discharge of the matter, and, after the subsidence of the inflamma- tion, in extracting any bad tooth concerned in Jieeping up irritation. The mouth is to be fre- quently cleansed with an astringent gargle. If a fistula form in the gums, it is to be freely divided, and touched with the nitrate of silver, care being taken, however, before resorting to this measure, to remove any carious tooth, splinter, or dead portion of bone, which latter proceeding will the"fiS'a.'"'"'''^' '"^^ """^ •''^■^"S °P«"' ZZ L f '*V'V"'"K of the gums at some parti- eeie P.?",' ^^'"^'',P"'« the form of an excres- Some ;""^.«'""-"'-"lly;'8«""'csa hard callous nature, periostei,. 1 «"'<^"'ngs are connected witli the periosteum, or bone, and are disposed to acquire n malignant character; frequently, after they havo attained a certain size, the nciglihouring part of he bone becomes altered and softened. Other umors of the gums are merely excrescences from he fibro-vascular texture of these parts, not pen™ trating deeply, not connected with the bone malignant. The excrescence of the gums then termed IS of very different character in differen cases; but, as many tumors of the gums apparently trivial at first, become fatal diseafes i.^ the end, if neglected m their beginning, the rule >n surgery ,s to attempt their extirpation, before they have made considerable progress . On this subject Sir Charles Bell has made some interesting remarks. " We see (says he) a smaU tumor of the gums, stationary for a long time and claiming no attention, at last forcing its way into the bones of the face, filling up the cells and the cavities of the nose, pressing out the eyes, and rising at last upon the base of the brain itself" so as to destroy the patient. The worst diseases of the gums, according to Sir C. Bell, do not come trom the irritation of a bad tooth. " We see a canous tooth, attended with ulcer and gumboil and abscess in the jaw; with fungous tumor of the gums; even with necrosis of the jaw. We find the inflammation from the same source amount- ing in severity of pain to that of tic-douloureux. iiut these are of no account, compared in danger with this tumor of which I am treating. This more formidable disease begins when the ad- joining teeth are apparently sound, and when we cannot trace it to any common source of irritation, ^his tumor first shows itself in a small hard pro- mmence of the gum, shooting out betwixt two of the teeth; and the teeth being good is an unfavour- able circumstance; for when they have become loose and are displaced, without being themselves diseased, it implies that the cause is deep, and not to be removed by pulling out the teeth. If the teeth be carious and originally in fault, we have a reasonable expectation of arresting the progress of disease by removing the teeth; but when, inde- pendent of the teeth, the tumor has its origin in the membrane of the fang, or in the socket, we cannot hope to extirpate the disease, without re- moving the whole system of parts," the tooth, the gum, and the adjacent portion of the jaw. (See Sir Charles BdlS Swr/icnl Obs. p. 4 13, 8vo. Lond. 1816.) _ A perpendicular division of the alveolar process is to be made at a prudent distance from each side of the tumor, and to the requisite depth, with a fine saw, any teeth in the way of its action being previously extracted. Then, with a stfong pair of forceps, the portion of bone, between the two fissures, is to be broken off. The bleeding, which is copious, may sometimes be stopped by- compresses dipped in the tincture of muriated iron, but frequently requires firm and long-continued pressure with the hands of a succession of assis- tants, or oven the actual cauterj\ The soft and more superficial kinds of epulis may be extirpated with a scalpel, care being taken to let the excision be sufficiently free and deep, and then to scrape the alveolar process, or rub the bottom of the wound with nitrate of silver, which will generally stop the hn;ni(irrhage, and lessen the chance of a return of the excrescence. When the disease recurs often, as it did six times in a case mentioned by John Hunter, the removal