WOUNDS, GUNSHOT in the preceding pages." {Ilenwn, loc. cit.) In these cases, the absence of bloody expectoration directly after the injury, the undisturbed state of respn-ation, and the greater freedom from oppres- sion, anxietj'-, syncope, and other bad symptoms, than m cases where the lungs are injured, form grounds for a correct opinion on the true nature of the accident. [Hsemorrhage from the lungs by the mouth, or bloody expectoration as it is termed, is by no means a certain sign of woiuid of those organs. Several cases of decided wound of the lung (as shown afterwards by post-mortem examination) that oc- curred before Sebastopol were marked; by the absence of such bloody sputa, and Dr. Frazer in a recent monograph states it as his opinion that "spitting of "blood" is a very deceptive diagnostic sign of lung wound ; out of nine fatal cases that he has collected together, only one had hsemoptysis and in seven cases in which the lung was un woimded, two only had haemoptysis. In some experiments which he performed upon dogs, to see what would be the effects that would ensue, in none of them did he find haemoptysis appear. M. Appia also states that bloody expectoration is not a pathognomonic character of penetration of the lung. He has often seen it accompanying simple contusions or superficial wounds.] It cannot be supposed that adhesions always take place round the opening of a gunshot wound in the chest, because the lung sometimes collapses, iuid becomes considerably distant from the pleura, especially when the communication established between the atmospheric air and the cavity of the thorax is free and direct. However, as adhesions are extremely common between the outer surface of the lung and the inner surface of the pleura costalis, they must, in many instances, exist before the receipt of a wound, and, of course, prevent the usual collapse of the lung. [It is necessary, with reference to exactitude in our comparison of gunshot wounds of the chest, to arrange them into classes. First. With regard to those in which the soft external parietes only are concerned, such as skin and muscles, simple injuries like these do not afford any peculiarity distinguishing them from similar wounds of other regions, but occasionally you have inflammation of the contused organs set up, where no primary injury of them could'be dis- covered. Two deaths from this cause appear in the Sebastopol returns, where fatal pleuropneu- monia supervened on bullet wounds of the walls of the chest, though in neither instance, as the post- mortem examination revealed, had the pleura been opened. Secondly. Wounds complicated with injury to the bony or cartilaginous portion of the parietes. Al- though these are serious cases, yet, when the cavity of the chest has escaped injury, they do not appear to be of a very fatal character: only one death is recorded in this class from among twenty-four cases occurring before Sebastopol ; it was followed by acute inflammation of the pleura of the injured side which extended to the lung and pericardium. Ihirdly. Those that produce lesion of the con- tents without opening the cavity. This form of ".'J"ry, although not often occurring, docs some- times lollow as a direct consequence of tiic external blin,!T' ll"' l^ony or cartilaginous walls "eing broken, and without penetration of the cavity. It cannot at first always be distinguished from those of the second class ; hence our prognosis should be guarded. The symptoms-denoting this complication do not always take place immediatel3', but after a time severe haemoptysis may come on or pleiuopneumonia may supervene. ' Fourthly. Penetration of the cavit)-, which may or may not be aggravated by lodgment of the missile, the lung being unwounded. This kind of wound may be effected by a lance, bayonet, bullet, or fragment of shell. The danger of these injuries is very often primary, where a large vessel of the parietes, such as an intercostal arterj', is di- vided, which however, practically, seems to be a rare occurrence, or death maybe the consequence of violent pleuropneumonia coming on. In clean cut lance or bayonet wounds, in which there is but little bleeding, the lips of the wound must be nicely adjusted and brought together, and in fortmiate cases only a sufficient amount of lymph may be thrown out necessary to agglutinate the edges of the wound of the pleura and surface of the lung. The same happy result may and does follow upon bullet wounds. Lodgment of the missile in the cavity of the pleura is in the very large majority of instances fatal; indeed it has been stated to be a much more dangerous wound than where the cavity has been completely perforated, and the ball has made its escape. Such a conclusion appears to be justified by the result of 41 cases reti^ned in the latter half of the Crimean war: 38 died and 3 were invalided, and some doubts were entertained as to whether the ball had really lodged in these three cases of recovery. Fifthly. Penetration of the pleura with perfora- tion or lodgment of the missile in the lung. A large number of these cases never come under treat- ment at all. They die, many of them almost in- stantly, on the field of battle, fi-om haimorrhage poured out from a large vessel or vessels in, or near the root of, the lung, or from suffocation, when the large bronchial tubes are opened and become choked with blood. Others again only survive a short period after -admission into hospital, dying from repeated and copious bleeding, either from the mouth or the wound, or from both. This haimor- rhage may arise from a wound of an arteiy of the chest walls, either produced by the missile or by the fractured bone, or from the wounded lung itself, and this may be done by the ball or subsequently by the fractured rib. One-twelfth of the deaths after an action in the field are calculated to arise from wounds of the chest, according to M. Scrive, and one-twentieth after a siege. In those cases that survive for a longer period, the danger will be primary, from htemorrhage; secoiidarilj', from in- ilammation; and lastly, from extensive suppuration. Neither emphysema nor secondary hajinorrliage appears to have led to a fatal termination in any instance before Sebastopol. It rarely happens that a ball enters the cavit}' of tlie chest without frac- turing one or more ribs, and frequently a fragment or fragments of the broken bone, or some portion of the clothing or accoutrements, is carried in along with the ball.] As the general symptoms and treatment m wounds of the chest are detailed in the arUi'le Wounds, I shall not here detain the render long upon tlie subject. When a patient has been shot in the chest, the most importiuit indication m the first instance is to check the hteinorrhage, should it