S^-l HERNIA cum ill an inguinal hernia of the left side. {De Hem. Incarc. in Halleri Disput. Chirurg. t. iii. ; Demonstrat. Anat. Patholog. lib. ii. p. 18; et Animadvers. de Hern. Inguin. p. 6.) Lassus has seen the left colon protrude at the right inguinal ring. {Med. Opiratoire, t. i. p. 173.) If it be proved by all these facts that such viscera as are the most closely united to the great sac of the peritoneum and neighbouring parts, are never- theless liable to form herniae, and if such dis- placements cannot happen without a considerable elongation of the membranous bands fixing these bowels in their natural situation, how can we re- fuse to admit that a noose of intestine, pushed by degrees through the inguinal ring, drags along with it the corresponding portion of the mesen- tery? In order to explain this event there is no necessity for supposing a partial relaxation of the mesentery." (Traiie Pratique des Hernies, par A. Scarpa, trad. p. 37—43.) The same causes which first produced the com- plaint, or others of an analogous nature, are con- stantly tending to promote its increase. The tumor becomes larger, in proportion as the pres- sure against the hernial sac is stronger and more frequent. Plence the great size which it often attains in persons constantly pursuing laborious occupations. Its increase will also be in propor- tion to the less considerable resistance of the parts in which it is situated. Hence the magnitude of scrotal and umbilical ruptures, and the gene- rally small size of a femoral hernia. The size of a hernia is likewise in part dependent upon the largeness and weakness of the opening through which the protrusion happens. Hence inguinal ruptures are usually much larger than those called femoral or crural. The looseness of the cellular connection of the peritoneum is another cause of the disposition of a hernia to attain a considerable magnitude; while the shortness and closeness of the same uniting medium operate, in particular cases, as a check to the enlargement of the tumor, as is exemplified in herniae of the linea alba, which are generally small. When the sac, after it has passed the parietes of the abdomen, is situated among cellular or adipose substance, it expands equally ill all directions, and forms a nearly spherical tumor, being, however, generally rather flattened, as in umbilical and crural hernia3. If it protrude through a canal it is nearly cylindrical, as in in- cipient inguinal herniae, and even in those which have passed the ring and are still confined bj' the sheath of the spermatic cord. The fundus of the sac enlarges as it descends into the scrotum, and thus, in almost all scrotal cases, the swelling be- comes pyriform. Irregularities of shape often take ])lace from the extension of the membrane in direc- tions presenting the least resistance. At the first moment of the occurrence of a hernia of sudden formation, the protruded peritoneum is uncon- nected to the parts amongst which it lies; but ad- hesions take place so quickly that the sac is found luiiversally connected to the contiguous parts, even in a rupture of two or three days'standing. These adhesions prevent the return of the sac into the al)domen when the contents of the swelling are replaced. The peritoneum which immediately surrounds the protruded viscera generally retains the same thin and delicate structure which cha- ractcnses that membrane in its natural situation IS covered by other investments, varying in thickness and structure, according to the part in which the swelling is formed, and the size and duration of the tumor, &c. (See Lawrence, On Ruptures, p. 18, &c. ed. 4.) Many interesting circumstances in relation to hernial sacs have been satisfactorily explained by Sir Astley Cooper and M. Cloquet; and some of them are noticed in Mr. Lawrence's work. " If the causes which have produced the hernia continue to operate, and further descent of the peritoneum be prevented by its strong adhesion to the tendi- nous opening, the sac becomes thin by distension. It may give way partially by a kind of laceration, and thus become irregular in figure, presenting an appearance of small cysts or secondary cavities. On the contrary, when the neck does not adhere so strongly, and the mouth of the sac forms a thick- ened ring, the renewed action of pressure maj' make the ring descend, and a fresh one will form at the new mouth of the sac. This process may be again repeated; and thus the sac presents one or more constrictions, by which the protruded parts may be compressed, and even strangulated. In- guinal and scrotal ruptures are almost the onlj' cases in which this occurrence can take place. When a hernia passes through a canal, a thickened ring may be formed at both orifices of the canal. If a hernial sac has been formed, and its mouth become thickened, a new protrusion may take place by the side of it: this may occur again; and thus we may have sacs composed of two lateral cavities, or consisting of two or more secondary openings into one principal protrusion ; or the original serous cavity may be contracted, and form a small appendix to the subsequent protrusion." (See Lawrence, On Rnplurcs, p. 26 ; and J. Cloquet, Recherches sur les Causes, 4'C. des Hermes.) According to Sir Astley Cooper, however, the peritoneum, in forming a common hernial sac, " is not dragged from its natural situation, but becomes elongated by gradual distension; and it is usually not only lengthened, but slightly thickened; for a long-continued pressure of moderate force will pro- duce an elongation and thickening of fibre, though a greater degree will bring about an entire absorp- tion of parts." So far, however, as this distin- guished surgeon has been able to ascertain by dissection, the seemingly great thickness of the hernial sac, and its apparent divisibility into several layers in old hernia;, are owing to the state of the coverings of the sac, the sac itself being generally but little thicker than the peritoneum. . Several hernial sacs are sometimes found in the same patient; and Sir Astley Cooper has recorded an instance in which this occasioned a difficulty in determining which protrusion Wcis to be the sub- ject of operation. Hernire are more frequent on the right th.in on the left side of the body. This fact, as Mr. Lawrence has remarked, does not depend on any disparity in size between the apertures of the two sides, but must be referred to the employment of the right s^de in those offices of life which require the most powerful exertion. {On Ruptures, p. 33, ed. 4.) This subject has been particularly consi- dered by Cloquet. (See Recherches sur les Causes et VAnaiomie des Hernies Ahdominaks, p. 10, &-C. 4to. Paris, 1819.) The general symptoms of a hernia which is re- ducible and free from strangulation are an indo- lent tumor at some point of the abdomen, nn's-t