i HEAD, INJURIES OF THE scalp, and tlie longitudinal sinus is lacerated and pours out a large quautitj"- of blood, the first dut)' of the surgeon is to stop the ha;inorrhage, and a small compress of lint is to be carefully applied to tlie bleeding point. Where symptoms of pressure exist, as in the following case recorded by Qiiesnay, and the scalp is entire, an incision is to be made, and even tiie trephine may be requisite. The case occurred in the practice of M. Mouton, who was called to a man eleven days after a fall. The patient was quite insensible <ind almost dying. He ex- amined his head, and found a small tumor or longitudinal elevation extending the whole length of the sagittalsuture, into which he made an incision three inches long, and found the suture separated. By means of this incision a portion of the blood ef- fused on the dura mater flowed away through the opening in the suture; fever and delirium came on on the following day. The trepan appeared in- dispensable, and it was applied on each side the suture; the blood had escaped from the left side, but there was a good deal accumulated under the right parietal bone, to which the operation gave vent, and the threatening symptoms immediately ceased. (Memoirs of the French Academy of Sur- gery, Sydenham Society.) Where the effusion takes place into' the arach- noid cavity from laceration of the walls of a sinus, and the dura mater becomes distended with blood, if unmistakable symptoms of pressure exist, the tre- phine must be immediately employed, and an open- ing made into the arachnoid cavity, as in cases of fracture under similar circumstances. has been frequently seen depressed into the diploe. Fractures may be either direct or indirect: the latter are termed fractures by cunlre-coap. Frac- tures may be simple or depressed : they may con- sist of mere capillary fissure, or may be comminuted to almost any extent. The following classification comprises all frac- tures which happen to the vault:— Capillary fissure. Fracture without de- pression. Fracture with depres- sion Of outer table only Of inner table only. Of both tables. radiating frac- E CO Fractures of the skull may be conveniently divided into fractures of the vault and fractures of t/ie base ; and the division is essentially prac- tical. They may, however, implicate simulta- neously both base and vault, for it happens fre- quently that a fracture, the result of great vio- lence, commences at the base and terminates by a minute capillary fissure at the vault. Cases demand- ing the use of a trephine are often of this nature, for, where the fracture extending from the base traverses the petrous and squamous portions of the temporal, and terminates at the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, the spinous artery is often divided, and blood is poured out upon tlie dura mater, causing pressure on the brain. Unfortu- nately such cases usually terminate fatally, and the blood is found extensively effused between the dura materand the bones at the base as well as at the side of the skull. There is no doubt also that a fracture commencing at the vault may make its way to the base. Fractures of the cr inium are either simple or compound; in the latter the scalp is lacerated and the fracture exposed to view. Fracture may also be further complicated with a laceration of the dura mater and of the substance of the brain itself; this is sometimes called a compound fracture. This re- mark applies to simple fractures of the vault, because in fracture of the base it is impossible to tell before death what complications have resulted. A fracture of the vault may be confined to the outer, or it may extend through both tables of the skull; of the former may be mentioned fracture over the frontal sinus. A similar fracture may occur to the mastoid process of the temporal bone; indeed, the outer table may in almost any part of the vault of the cranium be broken independently of the inner table : it Starred or fracture. Comminuted ture. Indented fracture. Penetrating or punc- tured fracture. Ecrasement.—Smash or crash. It is important to know that fracture of the inner table may take place whilst the outer remains intact: this accident is rare. Hewett relates a re- markable instance of this sort; the skull is pre- served in the Museum of St. George's Hospital. The fragment may be completely detached, or it may remain partially connected to the outer table. It is rare that both tables are fractured to an equal extent ; but this inequality depends on one of two causes, namely, the direction of the force applied, and the difference of density of the tables of the skull. In fractures arising from severe blows the inner table is generally fractured to a greater extent than the outer; but if the force is applied from within, the reverse occurs, and the outer table is more exten- sively fractured than the inner. These remarks apply particularly to fractures resulting from foreign bodies driven into the skull, as bullets and pointed instruments ; such cases are necessarily compound fractures. Mr. Erichsen (Principles of Surgery) mentions a case which illustrates the mode in which the unequal splintering of the two tables of the skull arises, and which shows that it is the di- rection in which the force is applied which deter- mines whether the inner or outer table gives way to the greatest extent. Thus a man fired a pistol into his mouth, and the ball passed throuj^h the vault ; the outer table was much more splintered than the inner. Such cases are not uncommon. The one just mentioned is quoted by Mr. Hewett who has taken great pains in describing the dif- ferent varieties of fractiu-e to which the vault of the cranium is liable. (Loc. cit.) Fractures by contrc-coup, or counter-fractures. It is rather difficult to understand the precise meaning of this term, for if we admit the following to represent this form of injury, it is clear that fracture of the skull scarcely ever happens without counter-fracture. Thus counter-fracture has been said to occur : —1st. When a blow is received at one part of the skull and the fracture takes place lit another. 2ndly. Where the fracture occurs to a bone contiguous to one which has received the lilow. 3rdly. Where a fracture is situated at a part diametrically opposite to that on which the Idow is inQictod. 4thly. Where a fracture happens to the inner table, the outer remaining entire.