^•^^ CATHETER hand, which are to be applied on each side of the corona glandis, and not at all to the under surface ol;tlie penis, so as to avoid pressing upon the com mencement of the urethra. [Many of the conti- iiental surgeons recommend that the penis should be held between the middle and ring fingers, the palm of the left hand being directed upwards, so tliat the thumb and the forefinger may be at liberty to hold the prepuce out of the way 1 After the catheter has been well oiled, its handle is to be held between the thumb and forefinger of the right hand, the back of the little finger resting- upon the patient's abdomen, in the vicinity of the navel Now, while the handle is parallel to the axis of the body the beak is to be introduced into the lu-ethra ; the penis being extended, and drawn as It were, over the instrument, while the latter is gently pushed on, until its beak has reached th arch of the pubes. When the penis cannot be drawn further over the, catheter, the beak has arrived in this situation, where it stops in front of the pubic arch, and is pressing against the posterior side of the urethra. At this particular moment, the handle is to be depressed towards the patient's thighs, and the manoeuvre well managed generally directs the end of the catheter at once through the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra into the cavity of the bladder. In short, as soon as the beak of the instrument has passed under the arch of the pubes, and the surgeon very slowlv brings the handle forwards, and downwards the beak IS elevated, and glides into the bladder I, this stage of the operation, the penis must be allowed to sink down, and not be kept tense, as this would only render the passage of the instru- ment more difficult. Tlie operation, however, is not always success^ fully accomplished. The beak of the catheter may be stopped by the margin of the urethral opening in the deep perineal fascia ; or it may take a wrong direction, so as to push the membranous part ol the urethra to one side or the other. The first kind of impediment is best avoided by not depressing the handle of the catheter ton soon - that IS, before the point has passed beyond the arch of the pubes. Wlien the membranous part of the urethra is pushed to one side or the other, the in- strument ought to be withdrawn a little, and then gently directed in a different course; but, if this expedient is unavailing, the index finger of the left hand may be introduced into the rectum, for the purpose of guiding the extremity of the catheter [With the finger in the rectum the surgeon can dis- tnictly feel the curve and beak of the instrument as it passes the membranous portion of the urethra; he can also distinguish the prostate gland, through which the instrument is to be directed into the bladder. The thickness of the structures inter- vening between the finger and the instrument, while traversing the membranous and prostatic portions of the canal, as well as the direction the be;il< should take, are best studied by the frequent use of the in- Btrument in the dead body while the finger is in the rectum.] The passage of the catheter through the opening in the deep perineal fascia, and especi- a iy the attempt to liit the entrance of the prostate gland, are tlie most difficult things in the operation. •I t IS by using too much force, and directing the end w tlie catheter in a wrong manner, that unskilful ^urgeons sometimes vupturo the membranous portion 01 the urethra, • When the prostate gland is enlarged, the urethra becomes lengthened ■ and aa it i .1 Kiori,i ,. 1 ' ' ^ " approaches the bladder, it makes a more sudden turn upwards than 13 natural. The catheter, therefore Tuh be longer, and more bent in that direction, than in otiier cases. In the third stage of the operation, the beak of the instrument has to pass the prostate gland and neck of the bladder. The principal obstacles to I S passage, in this situation, arise from spasm of the neck of the bladder and muscles in the peri- neum, and from the instrument being pushed against the prostate gland, instead of into the con- tinuation of the urethra through it. The first im pediment may generally be obviated by waiting a ew moments before attempting to push the catheter lurther into the passage. The hindrance caused by the prostate is best eluded by using an in- strument, the end of which is more curved than usual. When the catheter has turned round the pubes and IS just about to enter the neck of the bladder' IS the critical moment, at which may be seen whe- ther a surgeon can or cannot manage the opera- tion with skill ; for if he knows how to pass the instrument, he suddenly, but not violently, changes Its direction. He depresses the handle with a par- ticular kind of address, and raises the point, which, as if it had suddenly surmounted some obstacle, slips into the neck of the bladder, and the urine bursts out in a jet from the mouth of the catheter. They who are unskilful press the tube forward, and_ persist, as they first began, in drawing up the penis, on the supposition that, by stretching this part, they lengthen the urethra, and make it straight, whereas they elongate only that part of the canal into which the catheter has already ''^213 ) ^'^^'''^ Principles of Surgery, vol. ii. Dr. Quain's view of some of the foregoing points, as deduced from anatomical facts, I consider in- teresting:—" If (says he) the integument, super- ficial fascia, and muscles, be removed from the penis and perineum, we can observe what takes place on the iiitroduction of a catheter. No im- pediment occurs, during its passage through that part of the tube which corresponds with the cor- pus spongiosum : for, there it is supported by the body of the penis, and it is also quite straight. But, wliere it corresponds with the bulb, it is com- paratively unsupported, and also slightly dilated at its lower surface. On arriving close to the pe- rineal fascia, should the point of the catheter de- viate to either side, or be elevated, or depressed toe much, it will miss the foramen, carrying the ure- thra with it, and so the latter will be pinched between the margin of the foramen and the in- strument. If, ill such a position of the parts, force be used, or if the catheter be depressed, with a view to make it correspond with the curves of the urethra, the latter must be torn through, or consi- derably injured. A catheter, in its construction, resembles an angular lever, though not intended to act as such ; but it virtually becomes such, if, after its progress is impeded, and it is thereby ren- dered fixed, an effort be made to depress the handle; for, then the beak is made to move in the opposite direction, and will readilj' tear through tlie urethra. The effect of drawing the penis upwards may be exemplified in this way : when the catheter has i