490 [DECOCTUM QUERCUS. ^Quercrls cor- ticis conlusce, o x. Aqtiai desliUat<e, Oct. ij. Boi' down to a pint, and strain. Decoction of oak bark IS in constant use as an astringent injection, gargle, or lotion. It is an excellent injection for vaginal and uterine discharges, and may be used witli ad- \-antage, both as lotion and injection, in hreraor- rhoids or prolapse of the rectum.! DECOCTUM SARS^. ^ SarscB radicis concisce, 3 v. Aquas fervenlis, Oct. iv. The sar- saparilla is to be macerated for foui' hours near the fire, m a vessel lightly dosed. The root is then to be taken out, bruised, and put into the liuid again. The maceration is to be continued two hom-3 longer, after which the liquor is to be boiled till only two pints remain. Lastly, it is to be strained. DECOCTUM SARS^ COMPOSITUM ^ Decocli sarscBfenentis, Oct. iv. Sassafras ra- dicis conciscv, cjuaiaoi ligni rasi, glycirrhizce radicis contiisce, aa. 3 x. Mezerei radicis corticis, 3 iij. l o be boiled together for a quarter of an hour, and then strained. This, and the preceding decoction ot sarsaparilla, are much prescribed in venereal cases, and, at the present time, are often prescribed in combination with iodide of potassium, in doses ot from three to five grains of the latter, three times a day. Sarsaparilla is also given for the cure of a variety of cutaneous diseases, and in scrofula. Ihe simple decoction is frequently directed for the restoration of the constitution after a course of mercury, sometimes mixed with an equal quan- tity of milk. The common dose of both the decoc- tons is from four to eight ounces, three times a day. The compound one possesses similar qualities to those of the famous Lisbon diet drink, for which it is now a common substitute. DECOCTUM ULML 9, Ulmi corticis re- cenhs co7iius. '^ijss. Aquce, Oct. ir. Boil to two pints, and then strain the liquor. Frequently pre- scribed in cutaneous diseases. [DECOCTUM UViE URSI. p, Foliorum Uva Ursi, g j. Aqum destillatcs, Oct. jss. Boil down to a pint, and strain. This decoction is used in chronic affections of the bladder ; it is slightly astringent and diuretic. Dr. Prout says, that if steadily persevered in for a considerable time, it seldom fails to diminish the irritation and quantity of mucus, and thus to mitigate the sufferings of the patients. Sir B. Brodie, on the other hand, states that it has frequently disappointed him, and that lie has seen much more good done by the decoction of pareira.] DELITESCENCE. When an external in. flammation, with its usual effects, swelling, red. ness, &c. subside with extraordinary rapidity, the case is said to terminate in delitescence. DEPRESSION OF THE SKULL. (See DIPLOPIA. THE CATARACT. When the blood flows Head, Injuries of.) DEPRESSION OF (See Cataract.) DETERMINATION into a part more rapidly and copiously than is natural, it is said, in the language of surgery, that there is a determination of blood to it. (See Hv- I'ERjEMIA.) pi^RlOSIS (from Sfaipe'oi, to divide). A mvision of substance ; a solution of continuity, ihis was formerly a sort of generic term applied to every part of surgery, by which the continuity 01 parts was divided. DIGESTION (from diyero, to dissolve). I; the d.gestmu oi a wound, or ulcer, the old surgeoi Sy^pT" " -'-^ f--- thif SSecr^''^- ^PPli'=^tions which promote DIORTHOSIS, (from hop96^, to direct) One of the ancient divisions of surgery : it signifies DTSo'Pl/r'I P-P- BituatS" DIPLO PIA (from 5w\oi3j, double, and °' T"^"'' ^° ^^'"^ duplicaiu . Even when the eyes are perfectly heallhy, an object, under certain circumstances, appears double when viewed with both of them. "Thus (as Dr. Arnott has observed), if a person hold the two forefingers in a line from his eyes, so that one may be more distant than the other, by then looking at the nearest, the more distant will appear double, and by looking at the more distant, the nearer will appear double." {Elem. of Phi/sivs, vol. 11. p. 217.) It is not, however, double vision ot this kind, which I mean here to consider ; but only those forms of the disorder which depend upon, or are connected with, morbid or abnormal states either of the eye itself, or other parts, which directly or indirectly exercise an influence over it. Double vision is of two kinds. For instance, the patient either sees an object double, treble, &c. only when he is looking at it with both his eyesj and no sooner is one eye shut than the object is seen single and right j or else he sees every object double, whether he surveys it with one or both his eyes. The disorder is observed to affect persons m different degrees. Patients seldom see the two appearances which objects present with equal distinctness ; but generally discern one much more plainly and perfectly than the other. The first distinct shape, which strikes the eye, is com- monly that of the real object, while the second is indistinct, false, and visionary. Therefore, pa- tients labouring under this affection, seldom make a mistake, but almost always know which is the true and real object. However, there are cases in which the patient sees with equal clearness the two appearances which things assume, so that he is incapable of distinguishing the real object from what is false and only imaginary. The disorder is sometimes transitory and of short duration, and may be brought on in a healthy eye by some accidental cause, generally an irri- tation affecting the organ. Sometimes the com- plaint is continual ; sometimes periodical. In particular instances, the patient only sees objects double when he has been straining his sight for a considerable time, as, for example, when he has been reading a small print for a long while by candlelight. In this case the disorder becomes lessened by shutting the eyes for a few moments. There are also instances in which the objects have a double appearance only at a particular dis- tance, and not either when they are nearer or further off. Sometimes the patient sees objects double only upon one side ; as, for exampir, when he turns his eyes to the right hand, wliile nothing of this sort is experienced in looking in any other direction. In certain cases objects appear double, in whatever way the eyes are turned and directed. The causes of double vision may be divided into four classes. Namely, the object which the patient looks at may be represented double upon