cording ns the patient is in the erect or in the horizontal posture. In the former, the cataract presents a dark brownish colour, owing to the kernel of the lens gravitating forwards towards the pupil ; but the instant the patient lies down, the^ cataract assumes a white colour, the kernel falling back towards the vitreous humour. On puncturing the capsule the fluid part of the cataract escapes, and mixes with the aqueous humour. Se- vere vomiting is apt to follow, if this turbid fluid is allowed to remain in the anterior chamber. Mr. W. R. Wilde has published a valuable paper on this disease. [Obserealions on Morgagniaji Cataract. Medical Times and Gaxette, Oct. 2, 1852.)] The fourth species of genuine cataract described by Beer is the capsulo-lenticiilar cataract. It is by no means uncommon, and attended with the following characteristic symptoms:—The colour of the opacity, close to the uvea, is partly chalk-white, partly like that of mother-of-pearl, and in many places both these colours can be evidently seen disposed one over the other, that of mother-of-pearl, however, being always most superficial. After the application of the extract of belladonna, the iris contracts, and the pupil is long in returning to its former diameter. Besides the obliteration of the posterior chamber, the anterior one itself is mostly diminished, in consequence of the iris being pushed towards the cornea by the very large size of the cataract. The capsulo-Ientlcular cataract is not unfre quently^ the consequence of a slow inflammatory process in the iris, the lens and its capsule ; and hence several varieties of this case, and its not unfrequent combination with a spurious cataract ; which modifications should be correctly understood previously to an operation, in order to form a just prognosis of its event, and to know what method of operating ought to be adopted. Of these varieties, the first is the capsido-lenti- cvlar cataract, conjoined with sliyU depositions of neiv matter upon the anterior capside of the lens. These after-formations upon the front layers of the capsule, as Beer calls them, put on very different appearances, and accordingly receive various appel- lations. For instance, the marbled capsulo-lenli- cular cataract, when the chalk-white new-formed substances upon the anterior layer of the capsule are so arranged as to resemble the variegated ap- pearance of marble. The tviiidmv or lattice cupsulo- Icnticular cataract, when the new-deposited sub- stances cross each other, leaving darker coloured interspaces. The stellated eapsulo-lcnticular cata- rnc<, when the new matter runs in concentric streaks towards the middle of the pupil, The central capsulo-lenticular cataract, when a single, elevated, white, shining point is formed on the anterior capsule, while the rest of this membrane is toler- ably clear, and tlie lens not completely opaque. The doited capsulo-lenticular cataract, when the front layer of the capsule presents several dislinct unconnected depositions on its surface. The half-cataract, or cataracta cnpsulo-lenticidaris di- midiata, when one half of the front of the capsule is covered with a white deposit. Another variety of the capsulo-lenticular cataract is the silif/uoso. Though principally met with in young children, it is not one of the most uncommon affections in adults, and, in the former, it is often falsely regarded as a congenital complaint. When CATARACT. 419 this cataract is extracted either from cJiildren or grown-up persons, _ Beer says that the dried shrivelled capsule is always found round the equally dry nucleus of the lens, like a husk or shell. In children, however, he says, that the nucleus of the lens is often scarcely perceptible, while in adults it is always of considerable size ; and this may be the reason why this cataract in children does not present so bright a j'ellow-white colour as it does in grown»iip persons. In infants, in which it is frequently seen in the first weeks of their existence, it is manifestly produced by a slow and neglected inflammation of the lens and its capsule, arising from too strong light. In adults, the inflammation exciting this form of cataract is always owing to external violence ; yet Beer supposes that a considerable diminution of cohesion between the capsule and the adjacent textures must likewise have a principal share in bringing on the disease, which, in grown-up per- sons, is constantly preceded by a concussion of the eyeball, from the cut of a whip, the lash of a horse's tail, &c. In children, says Beer, this form of cataract may be known by its light-grey, whitish, though seldom very white, coloiu:; its diminutive size, and considerable distance from the uvea ; and by the freedom with which the iris moves when no adhesions exist at any points between this organ and the cataract, as occasion- ally happens; a proof of the previous inflammation of the capsule, lens, and neighboiu-ing textures. The eyesight is never quite impeded, but only much diminished. On the contrary, in adults, this cataract invariably presents a dazzling white hue, and only a few points of it are of a smutty yello\yish-white colour, whence the case has been sometimes termed the gypsum-cataract. It is not convex, but rather flat; it does not approach the- m's ; and when free from adhesions to the uvea which are more likely to happen in adults, it has no effect on the motion of the iris. Vision is cc- nerally entirely lost, with the exception of the power of discerning the light, and even this faculty IS sometimes destroyed, in consequence of the previous violence done to the eye, whereby not merely the lens and its capsule but also the retina have sufiered. A rare variety of the capsulo-lenticular cataract, mentioned by Beer, is that described by the French under the name of caiaracic harree, the bar cataract, and by Schmidt under the appellation of the cataract tvith a girth or zone. The diagnosis is easy; for behind the diminished, more or less an- gular pupil, the cataract can be plainly seen,' to which is attached, either in a more or less perpen- dicular, or horizontal direction, a chalk-white generally very shining and thickish kind of bar or girth, which is closely adherent at both its extremities to the pupillary margin of the uvea and sometimes reaches, but often only on one side' more or less towards the ciliary processes. The iris is therefore completely motionless, the uvea not being merely adherent to the substance forminir what is termed the bar or girth, but, also closely connected with the whole front portion of the cap- sule. The perception of light is cither very indis- tinct, or quite lost, and, not unfrequently, the globe of the eye is somewhat smaller than natural. Beer says that he has never met with this variety of cataract, except after violent internal iiiiiamma- tion of the eye. u u 2