A considerable obliquity of the neck of the womb, combined with a pelvis of small dimensions, may also be a reason for the performance of the vaginal Csesarean operation. Not that such obli- quity always occasions that of the rest of the uterus ; nor is the neck of this viscus invariably directed towards that side of the pelvis which is opposite to its fundus, although this is sometimes the case. In the latter circumstance, as the con- tractions of the uterus do not produce a dilatation of Its cervix, which rests upon the bones of the pelvis, the adjacent part of that organ is dilated and pushed from above downwards, so as to pre- sent itself in the form of a round smooth tumor without any appearance of an aperture. Such a case may have fatal consequences. Baudelocque furnishes us with an instance. A woman, in her first pregnancy, not being able to have the attend- ance of the accoucheur whom she wished, put herself under the care of a midwife, who let iier continue in labour pains during tliree days. When the accoucheur came, on being sent for again, the child's head presented itself in the vagina, covered with the womb. The portion of the uterus which included the foetus was in a state of inflammation. The 03 tincse was situated backward toward the sacrum, hardly dilated to the breadth of a penny piece, and the waters had been discharged a long time. The patient was bled, and emollient clys- ters and fomentations were employed. She was laid upon her back, with her pelvis considerably raised. The accoucheur had much difficulty in supporting the head of the child, and keeping it from protruding at the vulva, enveloped, as it was, in the uterus. Notwithstanding such assistance the patient died. So fatal an event, says Sabatier, might have been prevented, by making the woman lie upon the side, opposite the deviation of the uterus, and em- ploying pressure from above. If these proceedings had failed in bringing the os tincEe toward the centre of the pelvis, this opening might have been brought into such position, by means of the finger in the interval of the pains, and kept so, until it ■were sufficiently dilated for the membranes to pro- trude. This is what was done by Baudelocque in one case where the womb inclined forward and to the right. When the obliquity of the uterus is such, that the OS tinea; cannot be found, and the mother and Iffitus are both in danger of perishing, it is the duty of the practitioner to open the portion of the womb that projects towards the vulva. Lauveriat met with a case of this description. A woman, preg- nant with her first child, suffered such extreme pain in her labour, that Lauverjat was solicitous to as- certain the real state of thing.. He was surprised to find the vulva completely occupied by a bodv which even protruded externally, and yielded to the pressure of the fingers, except during the labour- pains. In examining this tumor, he could only find at Its circumference a cul-dc-sac, half an inch deep, without any aperture through which the child could pass. Other practitioners, who wore consulted about this extraordinary case, were also anxious to learii what had happened. They found m the tiimor a laceration, which only afffcted a part of the thickness of its parietes. This lacera tion was deemed the proper place for making an incision. The operation having been done, the nnger was passed into the cavity in which the CESAREAN OPERATION 365 child was contained. A large quantity of turbid fluid was discharged. The child presented, and passed through the opening, with a trivial lacera- tion on the right side. Lauverjat, having passed his hand into the uterus, was unable to find either the OS tincae, or the cervix. No particular indis- position ensued, and the lochia were discharged through the wound, which gradually closed. In the course of two months, the os tincse and neck of the uterus were in their natural position again. {Lauverjat, Nouvelle Mttliode de pratiquer I'Ope- raiion Cesarienne. Paris, J 788.) When the case is a fibro-cartilaginous indura- tion of the cervix uteri, or a laceration of the pa- rietes of this viscus, at the place where it projects into the vagina, the vaginal Caesarean operation is attended with no difficulty. It is performed with a probe-pointed bistoury, the blade of which is wrapped round with lint, to within an inch of the point. The instrument is introduced, under the guidance of the index finger, into the opening pre- sented by the uterus, and the aperture is enlarged, irom within outvvards, in various directions. But when the hardness of the cervix presents no open- ing at all, or when the part of the uterus projecting m the vagina is entire, the incision should be made trom without inwards, with the same kind of knife Too much caution cannot be used in introducing the instrument, in order that no injury may be done to the child. No general direction can here be offered, except that of proceeding slowly, and ot keeping the index finger extended along the back ot the knife, so that it may be immediately kno\vn when the substance of the womb is cut throueh into the cavity of which the finger ought to pass as soon as the kni e. If it should be necessary to ex- cutting instru- w th th. r fi' ^ Bimilar manner, with the ame finger. The cervix uteri having been divided, the expulsion of the child is either^o be left to nature, or promoted by ordinary means The ^younds require no dressings. If the bleed'm^ should prove troublesome, we a^re recommended t? apply to the incision a dossil of lint dipped in sni nt of wine. (See Sabaiier, Med. OpeZte'tT) Ihe chief object would here be to prevent adhe sions, between the cervix of the uterus and the tl^uFl'. 2980 '''' *^""'"''' Abdominal Cesarean Operation. This is a far more serious operation than that which has just now been treated of, and is the m-'n ceeding, to which the term Cresaroan operation k more particularly applied. There are three case, in which ,t may be necessary:-]. When the fcetus 18 ahvo, and the mother dead, either in labour the last two months of pregnancy 2 Wli tU^ fVetus is dead, but cannot be deliv;red'in the'us S way on account of the deformity of the moth r o the disproportionate size of the child S \\n' both the mother and child are livi g but dew" cannot take place from the same caiSeS, as ^2 second example. ' '"^ In ninny instances, both mother and child l,nv„ ived after the Cesarean operation, alu he ^ thcr oven borne children afterwards. (See llf sler s InM, of Sun/o,;,, chap, cxiii. ,l/e„, dl I'Acad, de Chmoyie, t. i. p. 62 3 • t ii „ ^ n • 4to. Edi,,. AM. vol.'y an^'srVfi' Edm. Med, and Surgical Journal, vol. iy. Yj\