182 ANEURISM a sheep was transfixed with a needle, armed with a slip of doe-skin of a conical shape, three lines broad at its greatest extremity. The two ends of it were cut oft' three lines from the vessel. There was no hemorrhage during the operation. The animal was killed on the twenty-second day; and the coats of the artery were found considerably thickened for an inch above and below the seton. On one side of the vessel there was no trace of the wound; but, on the other, there was a slight depression, containing a yellowish substance, which proved to be a small particle of doe-skin. The parietes of the artery were in contact, and every where united, excepting a flattened apertui'e, capable of admit- ting a small probe. The same experiment was repeated on the carotids of dogs by Dr. Jameson, and also by M. Worms, at the Val de Grace, m Paris, with similar results. M. Amussat varied the process by puncturing the artery with a curved needle, armed with a common thread, which was conveyed up within the tube of the vessel about an inch, and then brought out through the side of the vessel, by means of the needle. Then the ligature was drawn further up, till its lower end was en- tirely within the artery. A knot was next made near the vessel, and the rest of the ligature cut off. In small arteries, a clot was produced round the thread, and the artery became obliterated. In vessels above a certain size, no clot was found. With respect to setons, as substitutes for the liga- ture in the treatment of aneurism, I am of opinion that they promise no advantage whatsoever, and as being less likely to produce the desired oblite- ration of the artery, should never be employed on the human subject. I entertain the same opinion of acupuncture, which has been tried by M. Velpeau, M. Amussat, and Mr. Benjamin Phillips, on the arteries of animals. In some of these experiments, one or more needles or pins were thrust through the arteries without any preliminary exposure of these vessels; while, in others, the arteries were first laid bare. The accounts given of these ex- periments prove, that the obliteration of the vessel by the plan is a matter of great uncertainty; and that in several instances, where the attempt was made to transfix tlie artery through the luidivided coverings,either it was not hit at all, or only pierced very near one of its sides. {Lisfranc, De I'Oblite'ratioh des Artms, p. 77 ; also Mr. B. PJdUips, On the Cure of Aneurismal Tumors wUh- out the Knife or Ligature.) Besides, it is doubt- ful whether the arteries of the human body can be so easily rendered impervious, or the process of reparation be so favouriibly carried on in them, as in the arteries of animals. As Mr. Guthrie ob- serves, it is probable that a simple puncture with a needle would sometimes heal ; but ho has seen two instances, "in which the femoral artery was wounded with a tenaculum, and ulceration fol- lowed ijy hemorrhage, took place in both, requiring application of a ligature." (See Guthrie, On Dis. of Arteries, p. 212.) I shall finish those general observations on the treatment of external aneurisms, or such as admit more particularly of surgical treatment, with ob- serving, that, in England, surgeons now lose few patients either from gangrene of the limb success is to be ascribed to the perfection in their mode of operating; the choice of a proper kind of ligature ; the right plan of applying it; the rejection of the employment of several ligatures at a time; the great care taken to promote the healing of the wound as quickly as possible ; the avoidance of all unnecessary and hurtful extra- neous substances in the wound ; and, above all, the relinquishment of the formidable proceeding of cutting open the tumor. In the consideration of particular aneurisms, I shall begin with those which may be cured by a surgical operation ; and here we shall be _ fully- satisfied that " Vart de gueiir ne tnompJie jamais plus lieiireusement que lorsquHl j'eut employer la medecine efficace, c'est a dire, les moyens chirur- gicaux ow operatoires." {Pelletan, Clinique Chir. t. i. p. 110.) Of PoplitejU- Aneurism, and FOR ITS Cure. Operation secondary hemorrhage ; and this, notwithstanding they may sometimes prefer applying a ligature above the profunda to cutting open tlie aneurismal tumor. I firmly believe, that such matchless Notwithstanding the solitary example in which M. A. Severinus, early in the 17th century, tied the femoral artery near Poupart's ligament in a case of aneurism {De Efficac. Med. lib. i. p. 2, c. 51), the practice of tying arteries wounded either by accident or in the performance of siurgical ope-_ rations, and even the plan of tying the brachial artery for the cure of aneurism at the bend of the the arm, were known long before the operation for the relief of popliteal aneurism was attempted. The considerable size of the femoral artery, its deep situation, the urgent symptoms of the disease, and ignorance of the resources of nature for trans- mitting blood into the limb after the ligature of the vessel, are the circumstances which appear to have deterred former surgeons from this opera- tion. . Valsalva treated popliteal aneurisms on the debilitating method, and published one or two equivocal proofs of its success. In Pelletan's first memoir on aneurism, and in the 3rd vol. of Sa- batier's Medecine Operatoire, as I shall hereafter notice again, are two cases of axillary aneurisms, which were cured by Valsalva's treatment. But encouraging as such examples may be, experience is not yet sufliciently favourable to this practice to allow it to bear a comparison, in point of efficacy, with the surgical operation, or to justify the gene- ral rejection of this last more certain means of cure. As Pelletan admits, Valsalva's treatment is ex- tremely severe; the event of it doubtful; and were the plan to fail, the patient might not be left in a condition to bear an operation, for the success of wliich it seems necessary that a certain strength of vascular action should exist, in order that the blood may be freelv transmitted through such ar- terial branches as are to supply the places of the main trunk after it has been tied. The tune, there- fore, has not yet arrived when surgical operations for the relief of aneurisms can be relinqmshed. C/mV. t. i. p. 114.) [Femoral and popliteal aneurisms may usually be successfully treated by the compression^ of the artery in the groin, by means of Ca'ae s_ com- pressor, or some similar instrument applied in ac- cordance with the principles already laid down. In no cases of aneurism is compression so service- able as in these, and it should, as a S"""''"'" f' be had recourse to in the first mstance. In the event of its faiUng from some untoward accident,