735 FRACTURE. According to Desault and Dupiiytren, the first accident produces the injury much more frequently than the two latter. {Cli7i. Cliir. t. ii. p. 90, 93.) The causes are arranged by Dupuytren, according to their greater frequency, as follows: 1. Falls on the great trochanter. 2. Direct violence, as that from gunshot. 3. Falls on the foot or knee. 4. Muscular action, as reported of a negro afflicted with tetanus. Of thirty cases which were seen by Desault, four and-twenty arose from falls on the side of the pelvis. Sir Astley Cooper observes, that in London the fracture within the capsule is most commonly produced by a person slipping oS the edge of the foot-pavement. He admits, how- ever, that the accident is frequently caused by a fall upon the trochanter major. (Surgical Essays, part ii. p. 35, 36. Also, Larrey, Journ. Complem. t. viii. p. 98. 8vo. Paris, 1820.) [It is not impro- bable that in some of the cases attributed by the French surgeons to falls upon the trochanter, the fall may have been subsequent to the fracture, which was really produced by violence applied to the sole of the foot, or knee.] Dupuytren, and all surgeons of experience, recognise the truth of the remark made by Sir Astley Cooper, namely, that a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, within the capsular ligament, seldom happens but at an advanced period of life; and the reason of the facility with wliich the injury takes place in old persons, he ascribes to the interstitial absorption which that part of the femur undergoes in indi- viduals past a certain age, whereby it becomes shortened and altered in its angle with the shaft of the bone. Dupuytren never had a case of frac- ture of the neck of the femur in a child, and he notices the great rarity of such an accident in young persons. (See Clin. Cliir. t. ii. p. 82.) He refers, however, to one example in a boy, aged 15, as re- corded by Sabatier. {Mem. de I Acad. Royale de Med.) Another, I think, has been published by Mr. Stanley. {See Med. Chir. Trans.) Possibly some cases, supposed to have been fractures, might have been separations of the epiphyses. (See Du- puytren, Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 90.) Fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, within the capsule, are more common in women than men. (J. Wilson, On the Skeleton, ^c, p. 245. A. Cooper, On Dislo- cations, ^c. p. 122.) Almost all the patients under Dupuytren, in the Hotel Dieu, with fractures of the neck of the femur, were more than fifty years of age; and he found the frequency of the accident increase with old age. The reason of the rarity and frequency of the accident at different periods of life, is cor- rectly ascribed by him to the anatomical disposition of the parts, which is not the same in different ages and in both sexes. In childhood the axis nf the neck of the thigh-bone approaches that of the shaft; and the great trochanter forms but a slight promi- nence. Fails on this process were observed by Dupuytren to be the most common cause of the accident; and the frequency of the injury he found to be in a direct ratio to the degree of prominence of the great trochanter, or dependent upon the length of the neck of the bono, and tlie angle formed by it with the shaft. In children the trochanter projects but little, being concealed under the pro- minence of the OS innominatum. Hence, in falls upon the side of the pelvis, the violence docs Tiot operate upon it. Dupuytren notices, in addition to the above facts, the greater flexibility of the neck of the femur in a child; the diminutive breadth of the pelvis; and the abundance of adipose cel- lular tissue protecting the great trochanter. In adults under a certain age fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone is rare, yet less so than in children. The phosphate of lime, as Dupuytren observes, has accumulated in the skeleton, though not so copiously as in old subjects; the neck of the femur is much longer; the angle formed with the body considerably more marked ; consequently a greater projection of the trochanter, and an in- creased facility for the operation of the causes pro- ductive of fracture of the neck, whether they act from below upwards, or from above do\vnwards. But, as Dupuytren further explains, this length of the neck of the bone, and projection of the great trochanter, differ according to the period of life, the sex, and the individual. In women the neck of the femur is longer, the great trochanter more prominent, and consequently the frequency of fractures of the former parts greater than in men. The bulk and fulness of the muscles, which deaden the effect of falls in male adults, of course lessen the frequency of these fractures in them; while, on the other hand, the accident is common in those male, adults whose conformation approximates to that of women in the breadth of the pelvis, the length of the neck of the femur, and the projection of the great trochanter. (See Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 83—86.) In advanced life the pelvis retains its extreme width, the great trochanter is prominent, the neck of the femur inclined to a right angle, the organised substance of the bones lessened, and the phosphate of lime so redundant as to render the bones very brittle. These circumstances, together with the diminished quantity of adipose cellular tissue, and the flaccidity and atrophy of the muscles, account for the frequency of the accident in old men. The division is more frequently transverse than oblique ; the neck being sometimes, in the former case, wedged in the body of the bone, as Desault found,in several instances; a model of one of which, in wax, is preserved at Paris, and the natural specimen of which was in the possession of Bichat. A fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone is sometimes complicated with one of the trochanter major. With respect to tlie diagnosis of a fracture of the neck of the femur, an acute pain is felt, a sudden inability to walk occurs, and the patient cannot raise himself from the ground. The latter circumstance however, is not invariable. In the fourth vol. of the Mem. de I'Acad. de Chirurgio, a case is related in which the patient walked home after the acci- dent, and even got up the next day. Desault published a similar example; and several others fell under the observation of Dupuytren. (See Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 96.) The locking of one end of the fracture in the other affords an explanation of this circumstance. The diagnosis is not always free from consider- able difliculty : some individuals have the rational signs of the accident, and yet are not the subjects of it ; while others, who have really oncount(u-od it may not exhibit the symptoms of i"t. Sometimes a fall producing a coiitusioTi of the hip will boar some resemblance to a fracture of the neck of the femur while the same cause occasioning the latter injury, may not binder the patient from getting up and walking. Dupuytren concurs with other surgeons