765 FRAGILITAS OSSIUM. instances of tliis kind were publislied by Mr. Iter of Poole. In the first, tlie patient, a Male aged 82, felt the riglit thigh suddenly break .^he was standing at her drawers. For several i;umths previous to the accident she had had constant and very severe pain in the part of the bone which was broken, and she had been long afflicted with a cancerous ulceration of the mamma. After death the bone was so flexible that no bony union could have taken place. A regular dissec- tion of the limb was not allowed. In Mr. Salter's second case, the patient was also a female, 66 years of age, and, for five months preceding the accident, had^laboured under violent pain of the right thigh, and a thickening of tlie periosteum a little above the patella. As her friends were putting her into a cart, the bone snapped about three inches below the trochanter. For several years she had had a scirrhus of the left breast. This had been re- moved and the wound healed, but afterwards broke out in the form of cancerous ulceration. In this stage the fracture took place, and was followed in about three months by her death. Mr. Salter removed the thigh-bone, and brought it liome for examination ; but previously to its removal, the affected limb was observed to be considerably shorter than the other, and flexible at its middle, and a good deal deformed by a pro- jection just below the trochanter major. The muscles "of the thigh were pale and shrunk ; a bloody fluid escaped from the capsular ligament of the knee-joint, and two or three clots of pure blood were in the articular cavity. On removing the patella, a small ulcer was discovered in the upper and external part of its articular surface. The thigh-bone was remarkably soft throughout its whole length, and the knife could be pushed through it at any part, but at its middle it was most conspicuously deficient in earthy matter. At about three inches from either extremity it could be bent in any direction; and it was on the upper part of this portion that the fracture had taken place ; but the precise situation of it was not dis- tinctl3' visible, and Mr. Salter conceives that there had been no complete separation, like what occurs in common fractures. The distortion did not arise from any overlapping:, but from a bending of the bone, the muscles about the upper part of the limb were confounded together into an uniform mass of a pale red colour, firm and cartilaginous, with bony spicula thickly dispersed through them, and puriform matter sliglitly tinged with blood issuing from the cut surfaces. The integuments had suffered no change. In the situation of the swelling noticed above the patella, the tendon of the cruralis was much tliickimed and altered in texture, and a considerable ([uantity of pus came from under it ; the subjacent periosteum was also much thickened, and readily detached. The parietos of the bone were here nearly absorbed, and the medullary cavity was filled with a bloody pultaceous substance. (See Mnd. Chir. -/raiis. vol. XV. p. 186.) It is justly infcncd by Mr. Salter, that, as these cases correspond in so many points', the predisposing cause of fracture was pro- bably the same in both. Both the jiatieiits laboured under cancer of the breast ; and both sutb^red much from previous pain and lameness. These cases, it is to be remarked, were rather specimens ol niollities ossiiim, or preternatural flexibility of the bmos atfuctod ; and seem to have dill'ered from some examples of fragility on record, not only in their cause, but in the circumstance of no attempt at ossification having taken place in the broken or flexible parts. They resemble in some respects Mr. Howship's case; yet ditter in the af- fection being restricted to one bone, and being the sequel of a cancerous disease of the breast. In University College Hospital, I remember a woman who had long laboured under cancer of the breast, and in whom several spontaneous fractures had occurred at different periods. She was treated in this hospital, first for a fracture of the humerus, and afterwards for one of the clavicle. In this case every fracture ultimately united. M: Louis mentions a nun who broke her arm by merely leaning on a servant ; and in the London Medical Journal an account is given of a person who could not even turn in bed without breaking some of his bones. One of Professor Gibson's patients, residing near Trenton in the United States, has a son, 19 years of age, who from infancy has been subject to fractures from the slightest causes, owing to an extraordinary brittleness of the bones. " The bones of the arm, fore-arm, thigh, and leg, have all been broken repeatedly, even from so trivial an accident as catching the foot in a fold of carpet whilst walking across the room. The cla- vicles have suffered more than any other bone, having been fractured-eight times. What is re- markable, the boy has always enjoyed excellent health, and the bones have united without diffi- culty or much deformity." {Institules, S(c. of Surgery, vol. i. p. 370.) Similar cases are mentioned by Mr. B. Bell. A child, he observes, fractures a limb. The fracture unites, and is consolidated perhaps in less than the usual period. Some time afterwards, on lifting a moderate weight, or on giving the limb a slight twist, it is again broken, and again unites. Mr. Bell saw this occur three times in different parts of the right humerus of a child five years of age, within the short period of eighteen months. " Several similar cases," he says, " have been under my care : in all of them the patients seemed to enjoy robust health, were apparently untainted by scrolula, and their fragile bones tniited in a sfiorter space of time than I have generally observed to be the case in individuals whose bones were tougher." (On Diseases of Bones, p, 71.) The same author has been able to discern in only two cases of fragility a palpable deviation from the healthy structure of the bones affected. The sub- ject of one case vvas a gentleman at the middle period of life, who fractured his humerus in un- screwing a music-stool. The fracture was com- minuted, and did not unite. The arm was at length amputated by Mr. George Bell at the shoulder. On examining the limb, the muscles around the fractured bone were found in a pulpy state. The bone, surrounded with blood, partly fluid and partly coagulated, was almost friable, and its whole surface perforated by innu- ineralile small, irregularly shaped holes, giving it a reticulated appearance. (Op. cit. p. 72.) Ill tlio latter stages of syphilis the bones some- times become remarkably brittle. (I'lpliem. Nal. C!ar, dec. ii. ann. iii. obs. 112. Walihcr, Museum Aunt. t. ii. p. 2!).) In bad cases of scurvy the bones arc occasiou.illy so brittle, that they are broken by the slightest cause, and do not grow together again. {IJaitc/icr