the thighs nre bent upon the hody, and the arms are drawn up to the front of the chest, with tlie forearms bent upon the arms. These signs are characteristic of simple concussion of the brain, but in very mild cases a modification of the symp- toms is observed, the ordinary functions of the brain being very slightly affected, a certain amount of sensibility and volition remaining from the com- mencement ; concussion is then indicated by a mo- mentary disturbance of the intellectual faculties, dizziness and tingling of the ears, giddiness, a slight feeling of chiliiness, with paleness of the countenance and a pulse diminished both in power and frequency. If the hand is placed over the praecordial region, the heart will be observed to oscillate in its action, as if too much enfeebled to act forcibly upon its contents. The pulse in the milder forms of concussion is easily accelerated when the patient attempts to exert himself, and, in fact, by the slightest effort is occasionally raised from 70 to 130 beats in a minute. In the more severe forms of concussion the derangement of the cerebral functions is more complete, and persists for a much longer period ; the loss of sensibility and volition continues, and the patient is incapable of being roused, or, if excited for a moment by any question, returns an indistinct and abrupt answer, and instantly relapses into his former state of in- sensibility and stupor. The pulse under these circumstances is usually slow but weak, and occa- sionally intermitting. The breathing is slightly stertorous, and the skin, especially that of the hands and feet, is cold ; the pupils of the eyes are some- what dilated, but evince a slight degree of excita- bility on the sudden application of light. Vomiting, which is very likely to occur if the stomach is dis- tended at the time of the accident, often attends the simplest form, and is not unfrequently met with in the severer forms, of concussion; butit isoften absent altogether, slight nausea being occasionally the only indication of derangement of the stomach. It may be regarded favonrably, as a proof that the sensib lity of the stomach still remains, and may be looked on as an indication of some importance as showing that the brain still exerts its influence through tlie par vagura on this viscus. It is, however, occa- sionally the harbinger of immediate dissolution, Much importance should not be attached to it as an indication of the degree of concussion which the bniin has suffered. An increase in intensity of all the symptoms mentioned points to a still further extent of injury ; and a total abolition of sense and volition, an evident diminution of power, and an increased frequency of the pulse, a universal coldness of the skin, an insensible and perma- nently dilated state of the pupils, with decidedly stertorous breathing,—these, and, superadded to these, incontinence of urine and ffoces, prove at once that all hope of recovery is past. To the symptoms just mentioned we may add delirium and convulsions. Delirium of a character resembling delirium tremens is met with occasion- ally, and might easily mislead a surgeon unac- quainted with the fact ; but the history of the case as related by those who had witnessed the accident would dispel all doubt upon the subject. This sign frequently attends concussion at the on- set, an(l is not uncommon in those cases where the restoration of the cerebral functions is delayed for a long period; where it occurs immediately it soon passes off. Epileptiform , convulsions succeeding HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. 907 eachDtherwithgreatrapidity,and from their violence apparently indicative of great cerebral injury, occur occasionally soon after the accident, and after a few days disappear altogether, leaving no sign what- ever of any extraordinary mischief within the skull. And, as convulsions attend many instances of extensive laceration of the brain, in estimating the value of this sign considerable difficulty and perplexity arise. We know of no certain means by which the convulsions of concussion are to be dis- tinguished from those of laceration of the brain, except that the latter are commonly accompa- nied by deeply stertorous breathing and paralysis, which are generally, but not always, absent in simple concussion ; and in concussion they soon pass off. Although the intellectual functions are in severe concussion seriously affected, yet the will exerts its influence, and the patient is directed to perform those ordinary operations which are requisite to personal comfort and convenience. Thus, Sir Astley Cooper relates the case of a man who, while labouring under concussion, was found by his attendants with his feet in a chamber-pot, and by the motion of his hands evidently trying to throw water over his legs ; and upon the servant going into the room some time after, he was found attempting to shave himself, having substituted some spermaceti ointment for soap. And he men- tions the case of a gentleman who, whilst labouring under concussion, in the absence of his attendants got out of bed, bolted the door, made water, and returned to bed again, in the same manner ns though he had been in perfect health. The symp- toms here enumerated may be all present in the very first stage of concussion, but the existence of even a few of them is sufficient to characterise the affection; and hence the necessity of making some distinction as to the degree of concussion; but if the effects of concussion do not speedily pass awaj', some modification takes place in the signs, which renders it doubtful whether we ought strictly to range them under this head. And this leads to the consideration as to the duration of concussion as a distinct affection of the brain. In this there is considerable variety, dependent for the most part upon the degree of injury inflicted. Thus we frequently remark that the patient recovers his senses almost immediately after the accident, and no trace of injury remains; whilst in other cases a week or even a much longer period elapses prior to the entire disappearance of the symptoms, and not unfrequently cases apparently the most severe at the onset recover so quickly and completely that patients are unwilling to submit to that re- straint which is essential to the perfect restoration of the cerebral functions. Restoration in simple cases is indicated by a gradual return of warmth to the surface, by an increase in the power of the pulse, by a general return of sensibility, the pupils iiciing readily; and the patient emerges as if fiom a comfortable sleep, and is nuich astonished to find that anything extraordinary lias occurred, this re- suscitation being frequently preceded by repeated yawnings. It is quite evident from the consideration of the symptoms mentioned, that there are various degrees of concussion of the brain ; but it is verj' questionable whether many of the signs enume- rated may not be attributed to contusion or even laceration of the cerebral vessels, and to effusion of blood upon the brain, rather tiian to a mere shake