ANEURISM. 199 See Dublin Jouni. 0/Med, Science, vol. i. p. IL'4.) [Compression of the brachial artery above the aneiirismal sac is not usually attended by very successful results. This may be partly owing to the aneurism being usually of the traumatic kind, to which compression is not very applicable, but is in a great measure due to the pain inflicted by the pressure on the neighbouring nerves rendering this method of treatment unbearable to the patient.] Anel was the first who tied the brachial ar- tery, for the cure of aneurism at the bend of the arm. in the same way that Hunter did the femoral, for the cure of aneurisms in the ham; viz. with one ligature above the tumor, without making any incision upon, or into, the sac itself. The operation is performed as follows: — The surgeon having traced the course of the brachial arteiy, and felt its pulsations above the aneurism, may either cut down to the vessel immediately above the tumor, or much higher in the long space between the origins of the superior and in- ferior collateral arteries. The integuments are to be divided in the course of the artery, and also the fascia for the space of about two inches and a half. The surgeon, now introducing his left forefinger to the bottom of the wound, will feel for the hard cord formed by the median nerve, and closely under, or at the side of which, is the artery within its sheath, which is to be opened. The surgeon should cut chiefly on the side next to the internal margin of the biceps, to avoid dividing any of the numerous muscular branches which go off from the opposite side of the artery. He is then to separate the artery from the median nerve and the brachial veins, and with an eye-probe is to pass a ligature under the arterj', and then tie it with a simple knot. In the operation, it should always be recollected, that the median nerve lies in the lower third of the arm, on the inner side of the artery; and, there- fore, that the instrument used for putting the liga- ture under the vessel, should be passed from within outwards, by which means the inclusion of the nerve will be avoided. (See Boi/er, TYaile des Maladies C/tir. <^-c. t. ii. p. 193.) In the upper third of the arm, the median nerve will be found on the outer side of the artery; in the middle third it crosses superficially over the artery as it gradually changes its position from the outside to the inside of that vessel; occasionally, however, the nerve crosses underneath the artery. Sometimes the surgeon has a difficulty in dis- criminating the artery from the median nerve. When there is no pulsation perceptible in the arterj', the firmer feel of the nerve is one of the best criterions. Indeed, alter dividing the inte- guments, the hard cord felt under the fascia may be regarded, without any risk of mistake, as the median nerve. However, the best operators are sometimes perplexed. Thug, Diipuytien was oper- ating on a patient who fainted, and, for more than a quarter of an hour, he remained doubtful which was the nerve, and which the artery, and ho did not venture to tighten the ligature till the circulation had revived. (Dupiiij/ren, Oin. C'hii: t. i. p. 202.) And, in another instance, after making an incision, two inches and a half long, in the course of the artery, above the bend of the elbow, he found the subcutaneous cellular tissue gorged with blood, and the cellular sheath, inclosing the median nerve and brachial artery, thickened and easily torn. A large vein lying across the artery was cut through. The fasciculus, composed of the artery and nerve, were next exposed, and an eye-probe passed under the guidance of a director beneath the artery, as Dupuytren supposed ; but, on raising up the probe to ascertain what lay over it, severe pain was felt, followed by numbness in the track of the nerve. Dupuytren, then, by very careful dissection, de- tached the nerve from the artery, to which he next applied a ligature. (Op. et vol. cit. p. 288.) The importance of avoiding the inclusion of the median nerve in the ligature is great, not only with reference to paralvsis, but to gangrene, which Du- puytren never knew follow the ligature of the bra- chial artery, except when that nerve had been tied together with it. (See Clin. Chir. t. i. p. 286.) Whoever, says Scarpa, shall have the treatment of a circumscribed aneurism in the bend of the arm, will no longer, it is to be hoped, follow the method of those, who supposing the tumor to be formed bj' the dilatation of the artery, used first to divide the integuments over the tumor, insu- lated the sac, and sought the vessel above and below the aneurism, in order to tie it in two places; and then endeavour to malie the sac slough away. The operation is now reduced to the greatest sim- plicity, viz. tying the artery merely above the tumor. (See Scarpa, p. 3S8j 359.) The ligature should be placed as near the aneu- rism as possible, the principal reason for doing it at a distance from the swelling iii some other cases not being here applicable. (See Harrison on the Ar- teries, vol. i. p. 167 ; Guthrie, On Dis. of ArteHes, p. 333, &c.) The correctness of Scarpa's recom- mendation of tying the arterj' only in one place above a circumscribed brachial aneurism is con- firmed by the experience of Dr. Colles, who ob- serves, " I have operated repeated!j% and with success, for the cure of brachial aneurism, in con- sequence of injury to the arteries in performing venesection. I have also frequently assisted others in operating for the same case, and with the same result; and I never yet found it necessary to open the aneurismal sac, or to apply more than one ligature round the arterj', and which, I think, ought always to be tied as near as possible to the seat of the disease." (See Harrisoii's Surgical Anatomy of the Arteries, vol. i. p. 170, ed. 2.) When the aneurism is difftiscd, and accompanied with violent inflammation .nnd swelling of the whole arm, from the excessive distension of the clots of effused blood, Scarpa recommends the old oper- ation of opening the tumor, and tying the artery at the bottom of the sac, above and below the wound made by the lancet. In this method, ft tourniquet must be applied to the upper part of the arm, near the axilla ; or if the limb be very painful and swelled, it is bettor to let an assist- ant compress the artery above the clavicle, against the first rib. The incision having been made into the tumor, and the blood discharged, a probe is to be introduced into the puncture in the vessel from below upwards, so as to raise the arterj'! This, being separated from the parts beneath, and the median nerve, for a small extent, is to have two ligatures put under it; one of which is to be tied above, the other below, the wound in the vessel. Then the tourniquet, or pressure, is to be taken off; and if there be no bleeding, the wound is to be brought together. (See Scarpa,