HERNIA. there is not the spermatic cord as a criterion; for, after all tins part, when present, is the surest guide, and that on which Desault founded his per- tectly safe advice, viz. when the cord is at the posterior or inner side of the necic of the hernial sac, to divide the ring upwards and outwards, but inwards and upwards when it lay at the outer or on the fore part of the sac. ((Ezivres CMr. par Biohat, t. ii.) At all events, this advice is subject but to one exception, which is the very rare one of the epigastric running round the inner side of the neck of the sac in an internal bubonocele; a possibility which has been already explained, and which leads Hesselbach particularly to recommend, with Sir Astley Cooper, the division of the ring, in every internal or direct inguinal hernia, to be made straight upwards (p. 47). Indeed, the Jong-necked external bubonocele is the only case in which he thinks the latter plan should give way to that of cutting upwards and outwards. The safety and propriety of the method of always cut- ting upward, are strikingly illustrated by what bcarpa observes. He states, that the right direc- tion ol the incision of the ring is directly upwards, parallel to the linea alba. " I have (says he) ope- rated in the way which I recommend, upon several dead subjects, who had either external, or internal inguinal hernia, directing my incision in the course ot a line drawn from the upper part of the ring parallel to the linea alba : in all, I constantly left the epigastric artery untouched, even when t ex- tended the cut about an inch above the inguinal ring. (Scarpa, Traiti Pratique des Hernies, p. 111.) Only one objection, so far as I know, has been made to this plan, and it is founded on the alleged impossibility of introducing the knife, so as to cut straight upwards, when the neck of the hernial sac is long, because then the sides of the inguinal canal are in the way. {Hesselbach, p. 40.) No more of the parts forming the stric- ture should be cut, than is just sufficient for allow- ing the protruded viscera to be reduced, without bruising, or otherwise hurting them; and, if the stricture be at the external ring, I consider the middle of its upper column to be as good a point as any for the requisite incision. Sir A. Co oper, in his valuable work on Inguinal Hernia, advises a mode of dividing the stricture, considerably different from the usual method. He directs the iinger of the operator to be introduced into the sac (which in his plan, we know, is left undivided for the space of one inch below the ring). When the stricture is felt, a probe-pointed bistoury is to be conveyed over the front of the sac into the external ring (between the two parts), and the latter only is then to be divided, in the direction upward, oppusite the middle of the neck of the sac, and to an extent just sufficient to allow the pro- truded parts to be returned into the abdomen, without being hurt. The two chief advantages which Sir A. Cooper imputes to this method, arc, that tlie danger of peritoneal inflammation will be iess, and that the epigastric artery, if wounded, would not bleed into the abdomen. With regard to this proposal, it has been observed by Mr. Law- rence, ' An accurate comparative trial of both methods would be necessary, in order to determine the weight of the first reason. The second circum- Btance cannot be a matter of anv importance, if we in such a direction as will avoid the risk of cut woiinH;Ǫ >viij HvoiQ uie ri ^vounding the artery. Many circumstances pi'C- sent themselves as objections to this proposal. The manoeuvre itself, although perhaps easy to the experienced hand of so able an anatomist as Sir A. Cooper, would, lam convinced, be found highly difficult, if not impracticable, by the generality of surgeons. This difficulty arises from the firm man- ner, m which the sac and surrounding parts are connected, we might almost say, consolidated to- gether. The experience of Richter {Traiii des Hermes, p. 118) shows, that this objection is founded in reality. He once tried to divide the ring, without cutting the sac, but he found it im- practicable. If the stricture is so tight, as to pre- vent the introduction of the finger, there must be great danger of wounding the protruded parts. The practice would still be not advisable, even if it could be rendered as easy as the common method of operating. Sir Astley leaves an inch of the sac, below the ring, undivided : thus a bag remains ready to receive any future protrusion, and the chance of a radical cure is diminished." (See Lawrence, On Ruptures, p. 249, ed. 4.) Mr. Aston Key has proposed to revive the method of operating, adopted by Petit and the second Monro; viz. that of removing the stricture and replacing the protruded intestine, without dividing the sac. (See Mem. On the Advantages, S{C. of Dividing the Stricture in Strangulated Hernia, on the Outside of the Sac, 8vo. Lend. 1833.) Mr. Key concludes from various cases, which he has recorded, that the principal cause of the fatality of operations for hernia, is exposure, or injury of the intestine, or both, and consequent peritoneal inflammation. " The exposure of a bowel in a state of incipient, or active inflammation (says Mr. Key), the hand- ling it in this susceptible state, the incision made into a peritoneal bag already disposed to, if not in an actual state of, inflammation, are, as every sur- geon will admit, (and as his forcible efforts to reduce the hernia without the knife prove that he feels them to be,) dangers of no ordinary magni- tude to a patient labouring under a strangulated intestine. I do not feel that I have exaggerated the risk of inflammation; for,frequentlj-, enteritis comes on, when at the time of the operation the bowel appears to be healthy, and the abdomen free from tenderness; and when general inflammation pre- cedes the operation, the release of the intestine by the knife rarely succeeds in checking it " (p. 51). Mr. Key dwells likewise upon the great danger of roughly handling a hernia, particularly a large one, and of employing much force in repeated and long continued efforts at reduction by means of the taxis. He argues, that, as these proceedings can- not fail to bruise the protruded bowel, this part, like other contused tissues, must have a much better chance of recovery if its surface be not exposed. Mr. Ke}' does not, however, recommend the plan of not opening the sac in everj' example. For instance, he acknowledges, that some forms of adhesion, either of the intestinal folds to one another, or to the sac, or to its neck, may render it necessary to open the sac more or less extensively. A case of adherent omentum does not, however, appear to Mr. Key a case in which it is always requisite to open the sac. The first case, in which he tried the method which he advocates, was an old irre- ducible umbilical hernia, in which a fold of intes- tine had recently protruded. On dividing the edge of the tendon, slight pressure caused the boivel to return into the abdomen. The object of remov-