to have an internal aperture." the Rectum, edit. 3, 1854, p. 20.) ANUS {On Diseases of 257 The statements just quoted are somewhat per- plexing and contradictory, but, the fact is, these abscesses really originate in a variety of ways, and may commence by any one of the foregoing methods. In the first place, small circumscribed superficial abscesses immediately beneath the integument of the verge of the anus ai-e very frequently met with. These may arise, as M. Ribes has stated, from the suppuration and bursting of an internal pile into the rectum; but they may also be produced independ- ently of hfemorrhoidal disease, from constipation, or aiiyother irritating cause. The fistulas resulting from these abscesses are usually of small extent, are al- together superficial to the sphincter muscle, and seldom give rise to burrowing of matter in different directions. A second class of cases consists of those described by Sir B. Brodie, as the result of ulcerationoftheproper coats of the bowel, and escape of fsecal matter into the surrounding cellular tissue. Analogous to these are the cases where the coats of the rectum have been perforated by some hard substance, such as fish bones, &c., which have been swallowed with the food. These abscesses usually extend outwards into the ischio rectal fossa, and unless they are speedily relieved by incision, or the skin happens to give way, the matter is likely to burrow in various directions. The fistula resulting from these are generally deeper than the sphincter muscle. A third class of cases corresponds to those described by Mr. Syme, and take their origin external to the mucous membrane, the opening through which is of subsequent occurrence. These cases are, in the writer's opinion, more frequent than those arising from ulceration of the mucous membrane; at all events it is very common to find, upon opening an abscess, and for some time subsequently, that the mucous membrane is denuded for a considerable ex- tent, but the most careful search will fail to discover any opening into the intestine; whereas in fistulte of long standing the internal communication is generally met with. Tliis kind of abscess may commence in immediate connection with the coats of the bowel, and thence make its way outward, which Mr. Syme believes to be the usual mode; or I it may commence as a phlegmonous abscess in the i ischio rectal fossa, and extend inwards through the : fibres of the levator and the proper fibres of the bowel, until the mucous membrane is denuded. This latter kind of abscess often arises from some ■ direct local injury, such as a fall or blow upon the ■perineum, and it is in these cases that an early in- cision, before denudation of the mucous membrane has taken place, is especially called for, and is likely to be followed by permanent closure of the cavity, which will hardly occur if the abscess com- menced iu connection with ihc coats of the bowel. An excellent account of the different kinds of ab- scesses near the anus has l)ecn given by M. Vel- peau. See Vict, dc A/cd.ed. 2, 1833, t. iii. p. 301, Art. Ahces de I'Anus. The situation of the internal orifice of fistula in nno vraa also further investigated by M. Vclpcau. In thirty-five cases examined by him, ho found that a great majority opened at the entrance of the anus, or a few lines within, in accordance with the state- ment of M. Ribog. Three, however, had tlieir ori- fice outside the villous membrane of the anus, whilst oil the other hand there were four, iii which the opening was as high as an inch and a half, two inches, or two inches and a half, and a fifth even as high as three inches, and only just within reacli of the finger. {Diet, de Med. t. iii, p. 321.)] The complete fistula is the most frequent form, but whether the case be a complete fistula, or a blind external one, that is, whether there be an opening in the skin only, or one there and another in the intestine, the appearance to the eye is much the same. The method by which each of these states may be known is, by introducing a probe into the sinus by the orifice in the skin, while the forefinger is within the rectum. [The internal orifice being then carefully sought for in the proper situation, {. e. just above the sphincter muscle, it may, in most instances, be dis- covered ; but as it was formerly supposed to be situated at the upper extremity of the sinus, sur- geons frequently failed to find it, and hence arose the opinion, that the blind external fistula was the most frequent variety of the disease. Sir B. Brodie maintains, that the internal opening is ahvai/s pre- sent, and therefore does not admit the existence of an external blind fistula at all ; but, as has been already explained, cases are sometimes met with especially when the disease is not of long stand- ing, in which no internal orifice can be discovered after the most careful search ; and in addition to this, as Mr. Curling remarks, preparations may be met with in museums, which prove beyond all doubt that such a state of things is occasionallv iound. Tlie track of the sinus may often be felt as a hard cord under the skin, and by careful examin- ation, the course which it takes, and the existence of other sinuses branching from it, may be made out. Some inequality of surfece, a projecting papilla, or shght excavation of the mucous membrane dis- tinguishable by the finger in the rectum, will often indicate the situation of an internal aperture and will aftbrd a useful guide for the direction of the probe. The absence of this, however, must not be taken as a proof that a communication does not exist, for sometimes, after a fruitless search with the probe and finger, a little water injected alons the sinus with a small syringe will 'be found to make its way into the rectum, and will thus de- monstrate the existence of a communication,] Sometimes the matter of an abscess, formed near the anus, instead of making its way out through the skin oxterimlly, near the verge of the anus, or iu the buttock, pierces through the intes tine only This is what is called a bli^d internal fistula. In this case, after the discharge has been made the greater part of the tumefiiction subsides and the patient becomes easier. If this does not' produce a cure, which sometimes, thougl verv seldom happens, some small degree of induration generally remains in the place where th o S tumor was; upon pressure on this hardness a small discharge of matter is frequently made ner anum ; and sometimes the expulsion of air from the cavity ol the abscess into that of the intes ii e "-ay very palpably be felt, and clearly heaid e stools, particularly if hard, and requiring force o be expelled are sometimes smeared with matter- and although the patient, by the bursting of the ahsccss, IS relieved from the acute pain wliicli the collection occasioned, yet ho is seldom perfectly