CARBUNCLE. 406 civo to this disorder, which is often met with in houses where children are crowded together. One of the worst cases, Iiowever, wliieh 1 have ever seen, was in a cliild of an opulent family in Essex. Tlie complaint is sometimes suspected to be contayioiis. The first, or mildest form, is well known gene- rally to admit of being cured by pnrgntives, aided by some of the applications presently specified. In the second form. Dr. Cuming, after clearing out the bowels with a brisk cathartic, confides chiefly in an alternative of mild mercurials with aperients. The local applications preferred by him, are the black wash and a dilute solution of muriatic acid in lione^-. When the ulcerated sur- face is in contact with carious, or loose teeth, these should be removed. Dr. Cuming tried the liquor arsenicalis and cold salt water bath, without advantage. In the third variety where gangrene is predomi- nant, the disease mostly proves fatal. Dr. Cum- ing has en)plo3''ed various local applications, such as the mineral acids, dilute and pure, the oxymei asruginis, the butter of antimony, solution of the nitrate of silver, the black wash, &c., but mostly without any good efliect. I have likewise tried all these applications in vain, as well as solutions of the chloride of soda of different strength. With such external means, cinchona, sulphate of qui- nine, carbonate of ammonia, opium and wine, have been prescribed ; yet, for the most part, un- availing! v. (See Cximiny, in Dub. Hosp, Reports, vol. iv. p. 343, 345.) The treatment recommended by Dease, con- sisted in administering muriatic acid internalh', using it as an application to the disease ; giving the patient a nourishing diet, with jelly, wine, &c., and occasionally prescribing an emetic. In the worst form of the disease, I have found the concentrated nitric acid one of the most useful applications, especially when assisted with the in- ternal exhibition of sulphate of quinine and dilute sulphuric acid. Mr. Pearson extracted diseased teeth and loose pieces of bone ; directed a milk and vegetable diet, with a prudent quantity of fermented liquors ; and prescribed bark, sarsaparilla, and elm bark with sulphuric acid. The best applications seemed to him to be diluted mineral acids ; burnt alum ; the decoctum cinchonaj, with sulphate of zinc ; tinc- ture of myrrh ; lime-wa'er, with spirit of wine, &c. (See Pearson's Principles of Surgery, ed. 2, p. 287.) CANTHARIDES. Spanish flies, with which the common blisiering plaster is made. In surgery, the tincture of cantharides is sometimes prescribed in incontinence of urine, gleets, &c. It is occasion- ally added to stimulating liniments, to increase their eifect. Cantharides applied to the skin, or taken into the stoniacli, liave a peculiar tendency to act upon tlie urinary organs, and especially to irritate and inflame the neck of the bladder, and occasion strangurj'. In children these eflccts are particulaily frequent. (See Blisters.) [CANULA-INSTRUMKNTS. The minute anstrumeiits which recent ingenuity has introduced into ophthalmic practice under the names of camila forceps, canula scissors, and canula lancet mnj' often be used with good ellect in operations on the oye. The idea of converting the end of a bit of sti'cl wire no thicker than a cataiact needle, into a pair of forceps, tlie blades of whidi are to open by their own elasticity, and to be shut by means of a canula pressed forwards on the wire, l)eloiigs, it seems, to M. Charriere, a well known surgical in- strument-maker in Paris. To Mr. Bowman we owe the adaptation of the same mecliaiiisni to the working of a minute lancet, which is used for piercing the obstructed lachrymal sac to admit tlie passage of probes, &c. Mr. Bowman, to adapt the canula scissors for snipping the border of the pupil at a given point, without risking the lens, has had the short blade made blinit, instead of sharp-pointed, so that it might be passed behind the iris, and not wound the capsule of the lens, if it touched it.] C. Badcr. CAPILLARY FISSURE. A very minute crack in the skull. The term came into use from its presenting the appearance of a hair. CAPISTRUM. (See Bandage.) CARBUNCLE (from carbo, a burning coal), is divided into the benig7i and maligncqit kinds, or into what are termed by French pathologists anthrax and charbon, examples of which last are alTorded, in what is sometimes termed the vialiynani pustule, and in the carbuncle of plague, called therefore pestilential. Fortunatelj'-, all cases met with in England correspond to the anthrax of Dupuytren ; for no opportunities of remarking the pestileutial carbuncle have occurred in England since the de- plorable periods of 1665 and 1666. Besides the diffuse forms of gangrene and spha- celus of the subcutaneous cellidar tissue, there is likewise " a circumscribed form, which is ob- served in furunculus, carbuncle, or anthrax. Tlie great accumulation of blood, and the still greater and rapid effusion of serosit)% which takes place in these circumscribed acute inflammatory affections, produce a state of extreme induration of ti\e cel- lular tissue, a greater or lesser portion of which, being thus as if strangulated, dies from want of nutrition, becomes separated from the living parts, and is expelled in the form of a grcj' or straw- coloured spongy or pulpy mass, through an opening made in the skin by a similar process, by ul- ceration, or a surgical operation." (See Carf- well's llliistraiions of ilie Elementart/ Forms of Disease, p. 7.) Anthra.x, or common carbuncle, resembles a boil (see Furunculus), in being attended with gangrene of the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and, if one high authority can be credited, o\ certain processes of that texture within the skir [Dupmi/treii, Clin. C/iir. vol. iv. p. 109.) It i- remarkable for constituting a circumscribed daii rod, or livid swelling, accompanied by burning heat, stiffness, and soreness in the part. It occurs most I'reqiiently in parts of the body where tlie skin is thickest, and abounds most in those pro- cesses of cellular tissue wliich are described by Dupuytren as extending between its areola;. Thus, the nape of the neck, the back, and spaces over the scapulic, the sides of the chest, and the nates, arc the ordinary situations of anthrax. Anthrax differs from a boil, not only in being of more considerable size, but in being usually single, and bursting by several small apertures; whereas several boils frequently form togetiior, or occur in succession, and when one of these tu- nuirs bursts, it docs so by n single opening in its apex. The skin, which covers the anthrax, and especially what lies over its centre, is of a deeper and more livid red colour than what is seen over