eeton for children, on account of its more easy ap- plication in them than injection. (0» llie Testis, p. 194.) Pott's plan consisted in passing a seton of coarse sewinp; sill<, by means of an eye-probe, carried tliroiigh the caniila of the trocar along the whole length of the sac. [Within twenty-four hours after this has been done the parts begin to inflame, and resemble a hernia humoralis,. and re- quire to be treated in' the same manner as in that complaint. When the parts have resumed their natural state, which is in about ten or twelve days, the seton is gradually veitoved, a few of the threads only being withdrawn at a time. Mr. Green has advocated this plan, and his operation is nearly the same as Pott's, but that the seton is retained upon an average about twenty-four hours, at which time inflammation has set in. (See St. TJiomas's Hospital Reports, No. 1, p. 59.) Dr. James Deane, of Greenfield, Mass., has employed a seton of many distinct threads for many years in hydrocele, and in a considerable number of cases he had but one failure, and but one case of sup- puration. The time of its retention has varied from one hour to two weeks. He does not with- draw it until after the inflammation has subsided, as was practised by Pott. (See Boston Med. and Surg. Jour.volxxxVn. 1845.) Mr.Skeyhas treated several hydroceles, which had resisted other treat- ment, by means of a thread passed through the sac; he recommends withdrawal if much irritation follows. (See Oper. Surgery, ed. 2, p. 606.) Mr. Curling has resorted to a seton of two or four threads in many cases of encysted hydrocele of the cord or testicle; and, as the tumor in these cases is usually small in size, the seton proves the best means of cure. In cases of simple hydrocele, after the failure of injections by others, he has also used the seton with success ; and he has tried it, too, in cases where no other treatment has been adopted. The great objection to its use in simple hydrocele he considers to be the uncertainty of its operation. Of later years metallic setons have been given a sort of preference over the thread and silk, but up to the present time the results have been by no means comparable to those following the use of in- jections; the number of cases, too, have been com- paratively small in which they have been tried. M. Duperry, in operating for hydrocele, passes the trocar through the scrotum, like a seton needle. In -200 cases, 89 were cured by the admission of the air, or air and water: in 114, liquid excitants were required to produce the necessary inflammation. The point of the trocar is remov- able. {Gazette des Hopitaux, 1051.) M. Carron du Villiards, of the Antilles, in consequence of the bad effects which result from injection in that part of the world, h;is devised a modification of Larrey's operation, and has performed it fifty times with fortj'-eight cures; and M. Camilleri and others 187 times, with but seven relapses. It is attended with no accident and no pain; is adapted for all complications of hydrocele, is of easy execution, and requires but little confintment or after-treatment. He punctures the most dependent part of the scrotum with a strong and narrow lancet, which he passes slowly in. As soon as fluid escapes, lie slides a long narrow trocar along the blade of the lancet, keeping the point of the instrument witliin the canula, until the upper boundary of the tumor is reached. Hero the canula is projected e-xtcrnally, HYDROCELE. 10^5 and it is replaced by a grooved silver wire, ■which traverses the two apertures, and is left in situ, on removal of the canula. Spirit lotions are used, and after twenty-four hours, inflammation is set up. On the twelfth day (the patient being usually able to get up on the third) the wire ia removed, and a suspensory bandage worn for twenty-five or thirty days, when the p.itient is cured. (See Mon. des HSpiiaux, 1867, No. 128.) A single silver wire, applied in the same manner as threads, has been tried lately by many surgeons with variable success. In the hands of Mr. Pollock and some others, they have proved effectual m perfect- ing a radical cure. (See Lancet, vol. i. for 1859, p. 266, and vol i. for 1860, p. 36.) On the other hand, they have not only failed, but cases are re- lated in which the life of the patient was endan- gered by the extreme severity of the constitutional symptoms, and suppuration of the sac has ensued in several instances. Mr. Pollock considers the advantage of using the wire seton to be, that the patient suffers much less pain than when the sac is injected with iodine. The general test of united experience, however, goes to prove that this method of treatment does not fulfil the expecta- tions of those surgeons who have been led to try it, and it has already been nearly abandoned.] Injection.—[The treatment of hydrocele by this method, was first proposed by Celsus, who advised the use of a solution of nitre. Lembert, in his (Euvres Chirurgicales (1667), recommended the injection of sublimate dissolved in lime water. Mr. G. Monroe, a Scotch surgeon, revived this practice about the middle of the last century, and at first employed spirits of wine, but subsequently, in con- sequence of the pain which it excited, substituted wine. (See Monroe on the Dropsy, ed. 3, p. 322.) Mr. S. Sharp, of London, also made trial of spirits of wine. Douglas, Le Dran, and Pott, all disapprove of injections in their works. To Sir James Earle is due the credit of introducing injec- tions into general practice, by showing the ad- vantages of a milder mode of proceeding. He used port wine mixed with an equal quantity of water, or in the proportion of two thirds to one third of water; and this is still used by many sur- geons in this country. Mr. Liston, from the com- mencement of his practice, was in the habit of using port wine without water, and rarely failed in effect- ing a cure. The strongest bodied and harshest port wine will, he observes, in some cases produce not the least heat or uneasiness in the part, how- ever long retained. There will follow no excited reaction, and consequently no cure. Three or four ounces of port wine are injected, and allowed to remain for a few minutes, and then it is permitted to escape, when a fresh quantity is injected. After a little while the cavity is emptied thoroughly, and the surfaces are rubbed slightly on each other. (See Practical Surgery, p. 462.) Chelius recom- mends one part of red wine diluted with two of water, injected moderately warm, till the sac is almost distended to its previous size. (SeeSysfeHt of Surgery, translated by South, vol. ii. p. 503.) As the strength and other qualities of port wine vary considerably, Sir Astley Cooper preferred a solution of the sulphate of zinc, 3j. to a pint of water. This is still much used, and, with the wine, is preferred even to the iodine, presently to bo described. Mr. Wordsworth has frequently radically cured hydrocele amongst the negroes 3x3