98 AMPUT flap will unite by the adhesive process. Apposi- tion of its edges may be obtained, but contact throughout its interior is manifestly impossible, and collections of matter to a greater or lesser extent are nearly certain to take place. In these respects then amputation at the ankle- joint is inferior to amputation in the lower third of the leg; and for these reasons, the latter opera- tion should be preferred in persons of broken down constitution or in those advanced in life, where sloughing of the flap would be more likely to take place; and in whom either the presence of a slough- ing wound, or the long delay in the healing process might be attended with dangerous consequences. But in young persons, and in those whose state of health is tolerably good, the inconveniences at- tending amputation at the ankle-joint are more than compensated for by the preservation of a limb on the end of which the patient can support the weight of his bod}-, and which will enable him to wear a much leas cumbersome and expensive artificial contrivance. Capability of supporting pressure, however, being the main advantage of amputation at the ankle, it is obvious that it ought never to be done unless the skin of the heel can be obtained to form the flap. When this is impracticable, the lower third of the leg should be preferred; for if the stump be left longer than this, it will not only interfere with the mechanism of the artificial limb, but it will also be difficult so to construct the latter that it shall not cause painful pressure on the end of the stump. Very many surgeons have now adopted this operation, but the opinion of the profession re- specting it is, nevertheless, still somewhat un- settled. Mr. Quain says, the operation appears to him " to be free from any valid objection, and, what is more important, the result in practice has been found to be good. A person who has under- gone this operation is enabled to bear his whole weight upon the end of the stump without incon- venience ; and, on this account, the facility of pro- gression is, with a proper apparatus, decidedly greater than when the amputation is performed at any higher part of the limb. (Med. Times, Dec. 27, 1851, p. 659.) Mr. Erichsen thinks it " consti- tutes one of the greatest improvements of recent date in operative surgery, as by its performance ampu- tation of the leg may often be avoided, and the patient being left with an exceedingly useful stump, the covering of which being ingeniously taken from the heel, constitutes an excellent basis of support." (Scie?ice and A rt of Surg. 1853, p. 71.) Mr. Fer- gusson stated (in 1851), that he had operated eight times, and that Mr. Busk, had had a like number of cases. Mr. Fergusson was then strongly in favour of it, believing the stump to be " the best that can be made in the lower extremity" (see Med. Times, vol. i. 1851, p. 640), and sub- sequently he says, " I have now liad considerable personal experience in this operation, and do not hesitate in giving it my strongest recommenda- tions." (See Prac. Siirrj. ed. 3, 185-2, p. 491.) He has since, liowever, greatly modified these opinions, and he now says, '• what with violent inflammation extending up the leg, sloughing, se- condary hemorrhage, death immediately dependent on the'operation, tardy healing of the wound, and defective condition of the stump from languid cir- culation and tenderness, so that it could not be pressed upon, I have formed a most unfavourable impression against it." (See Prac. Surg. cd. 4, 1851, p. 487.) Mr. Butcher, of Dublin, mentions a case, in which he amputated at the ankle-joint, and was obliged three months afterwards to remove the leg below the knee, in consequence of ulcera- tion of an excessively painful character taking place in the stump. "lie thinks it still remains to be proved that the operation at the ankle-joint affords tlie most comfortable and useful stump to the la- bouring man, and promises less risk to life. He has seen the operation performed three times, and in no one case was it attended with success." {Dublin Quarterly Journal of Med. Science, August 1851.) Mr. Simon has modified the operation at the ankle-joint in two cases, by allowing the astragalus to remain. His first case was in Ma}^ 1848, in a patient aged fifteen, with scrofulous caries and necrosis afi^ecting the front and outside of the tarsus, extending even to the os calcis, but sparing the astragalus. The operation was performed in the same way as is generally adopted for amputa- tion at the ankle-joint, the knife being passed between the astragalus and os calcis instead of be- tween the astragalus and the lower extremity of the tibia and fibula. The flap was taken in the same manner as in the ordinary amputation of the ankle- joint, and the stump turned out remarkablj' good and useful. Mr. Simon considers that it was better than the stump left after Chopart's operation, be- cause it was undisturbed bj'' muscular contraction, and better than Syme's because of its greater breadth, its mobility in the joint, and its addi- tional inch and a half in length. This stump has been seen for several years, and it was found that it had worked very advantageously for the patient. The second case was for a railway injury of the foot, in 1853. The same operation was performed as in the preceding case, but the man died of tetanus. When he was seized with this affection, a fortnight after the operation, the entire stump had very nearly healed, and, in prospect of firmne.'s and positi(m of cicatrix, was as near a model stump as any one could have wished to see. {Lancet, vol. i. 1854, p. 100.) M. Malgaigne, also, has amputated beneath the astragalus on two occasions, and with successful results. His mode of proceeding, however, was dif- ferent. He miide a large internal flap, composed of the parts from the inner concave surface of the OS calcis, together with about two-thirds of the breadth of the sole of the foot. This flap must extend forwards, some distance in front of the astragalo-scaphoid articulation, in order to leave a sufficient covering for the rounded head of the as- tragalus. {Med. Oper. p. 310, ed. 5.) M. Pirogofi^, of St. Petersburg, has proposed an- other modification, the efi'ect of which is to pre- serve the posterior portion of the os calcis in the flap. After the incisions have been made in the manner proposed by Mr. Syme, the ankle-joint is opened in t'ront, and the foot disarticulated. The os calcis is then sawn throiigh from above downwards, behind its articulation with the astragalus. The portion of bone forming the heel remains, there- fore, in the flap, and is "to be brought forward and turnrd up, with the view of making it unite with the sawn surface of the Imvcr end of the tibia. This operation has been performed in London