ANEURISM. 167 middle coats, and to pi'event its detacliment; it being almost impossible, even with the thinnest ligature, entirely to cut through a healthy artery. Thirdl}% The vessel should be detached from its connections only to such an extent as is necessary for the passage of the ligature underneath it. Fourthly, The immediate adhesion of the wound should bo promoted by all such means, as are known to promote that process in general. (See Hodgson, On Dis. of Arteries, p. 225, 226.) Fifthl}% The ligature should be applied, if pos- sible, to a sound portion of the arterj'. When the artery is affected with atheromatous or calcareous depositions at the part where "some method must be tried for its obliteration, M. Lisfranc rejects the ligature and prefers compressing, or plugging the vessel, or, at all events, some means which will not occasion so much risk as the ligature of rapidly dividing the artery. {De VOhliUraUon des Arieres, p. G4.) If we were compelled to tie a diseased portion of artery, the chance of secondary hemor- rhage, I believe, would not be lessened by following M. Lisfranc's advice. It is right to state, how- ever, that the plan of plugging an ossified artery was sometimes adopted bj^ Baron Dupuytren and M.Roux, though probably not in cases of aneurism. According to M. Manec, they used as a plug a piece of bougie, and then applied a common ligature. Sixthly, it should not be placed too near a collateral branch, which would prevent the form- ation of the internal clot, and the process of oblite- ration of the vessel would be likely to be interfered with. In the course of his experiments upon brutes, to ascertain the operation of the ligature, Di-. Jones arrived at a fact, which offered the proba- bility of leading to an improvement in the oper- ation for aneurism. {Treatise on Hemorrliage, chap, iii.) When a small firm ligature is applied to an arterj-, it causes the division of the internal and middle coats ; and if it be afterwards removed, an eff'iisiou of lymph takes place between the cut surfaces into the cavity of the vessel. If several divisions of ilie internal and viiddle coats he thus effected in the vidniti/ of each other, the effusion of lymph was found by Dr. Jones to be sufficiently extensive to obliterate the cavity of the vessel. Dr. .Jones mentions several divisions as necessary ; an important fact, which has generally been over- looked, and the application of one ligature supposed to be all that was s[iecified. Indeed, several divi- sions of the inner coat constitute in reality the pro- cess introduced by M. Amussat, and termed by him Des iMtwhures. In the year IfSOO, Mr. A. C. Hutchison tied the brachial arteries of two dogs, and removed the ligatures immediately after their application : in both instances, as he assures us, the complete obliteration of the canal of the artery was the consequence of the operation. (Sec Pract. Obs.in Sury^ri/, ]f. lO.X) If, immediately after the operation for aneurism, the ligature could be removed, and yet the vessel became obliterated, it would be highly advantageous, as there would then be left in the wound no extraneous snbstanco to prevent its union, or promote secondary henior- rhage, by extending the sloughing, or lilcerative process too far. It is to bo regretted, tliat the repetition of the experiment liy others has not been attended with success. Mr. Hodgson tried it, but the artery did not become impervious. (See Jiay periments A. antt JJ., p. 228, 22.0, of tliis gentle- man's work.) Mr. Dalrymple, of Norwich, made the experiment not less than seven times on horses, and three times on sheep, and failed, in every in- stance, to obtain the same result as Dr. Jones. Not only was no coagulnm formed, but even when the animal had been suffered to live until the thirteenth, fifteenth, and eighteenth days after the operation, tlie canal of the artery was not found obliterated. In each case, indeed, its calibre was contracted ; but it was still capable of transmitting a lessened column of blood. (Tra- vers ill Med. CJiir. Trans, vol. iv. p. 442.) Thus it appears that an effusion of lymph is an invari- able consequence of the operation, and, as Mr. Travers has observed, the want of union is there- fore owing to the opposite sides of the vessel not being retained in a state of contact, so as to allow of their adhesion. The presence of the ligature, in the common mode of its application, effects this object; and for the success of Dr. Jones's experi- ments it appeared only necessary that the opposite sides of the wounded vessel should be retained in contact until their adhesion was sufficiently ac- complished to resist the passage of the blood through the tube. This object might probably be effected by compression ; but the inconve- niences attending such a degree of pressure, as would retain the opposite sides of an artery in contact at the bottom of a recent wound, are too great to permit its employment. It occurred to Mr. Travers, that if a ligature were applied to an artery, and suft'ered to remain only a few hours, the adhesion of the wounded surfaces would be sufBciently accomplished to insure the obliteration of the canal ; and by the removal of the ligature at this period, the inconveniences attending its stay would be obviated. The danger, produced by the residence of a ligature upon an artery, arises from the irritation, which, as a foreign body, it produces in its coats. Ulceration has never been observed to commence in less than twent)'-four hours after the application of a ligature ; whilst it is an ascer- tained fact, that lymph is in a favourable state for organisation in less than six hours, in a wound the sides of which are preserved in contact. {Jones chap. iv. exp. 1.) If it be sufficient, therefore, to' insure their adhesion, that the wounded coats of an artery be kept in contact by a ligature only three or four hours, ulceration and slougliing may in n great degree be obviated by promoting the immediate adhesion of the wound. Justified by this reasoning, Mr. Travers performed several ex- periments, by which he ascertained, that if a ligature were kept six, two, or even one hour upon the carotid artery of a horse, and then removed the adhesion was sufficiently advanced to effect the' permanent obliteration of the canal. It appeared probable, that the same result would be obtained upon the healthy artery of a hinnan subject. (See J racers s Obs. in Med. Chir. Trans, vol." iv • nnd /fodr/snn, On the .Diseases of Arteries and Veins p. 22)1 et seq. ' Sir Astlcy Cooper performed one operation for a popliteal aneurism, with the view of ancertaininc the efficacy of such a method on the luinian sub- ject. He completely stopped the flow of blood lor ihirty-lwo liours, and then removed the lign- tare ; but the pulsations of the tumor commenced again. He next applii;d the ligature forty hours onger, at the end of which time no pulsation re- curred on the ligature being taken awar. On the M 4 '