HEMATOCELE. 847' stances, slougliiiig and severe sj'mptoms liave been the result. [In luematocele of any standing, whether trau- matic or spontaneous, it should be borne in mind that pathological changes will take place both in the tunica vaginalis and in the blood itself. The serous membrane-may inflame, and transude lymph instead of serum ; thus a false membrane may be formed, to which the fibrin of the extravasated blood may readily adhere, or the serous mem- brane may simply have its secreting surface so far changed as to permit of tlie fibrin attaching itself to it in the form of a false membrane. Be this as it may, the tunica vaginalis will occasionally become more or less thickened, and in some extreme cases to the extent of half an inch or more, so that, after being opened and its contents removed, it is unable to collapse. The extravasated blood in contact with the living tissues does not altogether lose its vital properties, but undergoes peculiar changes in co- lour, in consistency, and in organisation, producing a variety of appearances in the contents of the more or less thickened tunica vaginalis. The serous parts disappear by absorption, as well as a certain portion of the colouring matter of the blood; the plastic materials become more or less organised, forming laj'ers of false membrane adhering to the tunica vaginalis, or arranged so as to form parti- tions and cells, giving rise to a honeycombed ap- pearance in the interior of the cj-st. These cells and compartments of the haematocele will be iilled with fluids of various colour and consistency, de- rived from the blood and from the imperfectly organised membranous laminos. The plan of treatment suitable to a hematocele of long stand- ing differs widely from that which may siifBce in recent cases. When the tunica vaginalis becomes thickened to the extent of five or six lines, neither tapping, injecting, nor incision alone will be of any avail. The diseased tissues are incapable of repair. The layers of false membrane, after incision, must be peeled oft" from the interior of the tunica vaginalis, and the original membrane only left, or, if this cannot be effected, the entire adventitious structures, together with the tunica vaginalis, must be removed by the scalpel or scissors. Fortunately the visceral portion of the membrane is rarely implicated in the thickening, so that the testis and epididymis may generally be left untouched. Should, however, the adventi- tious deposit be equnlly developed on the testis and epididymis, or should these structures have suffered dis >rganisation and atrophy, castration should be performed as the only procedure likely to be effec- tual. I lately operated on a case in St. Mary's Hospital, by removal of the thickened tunica vagi- nalis, together with its contents, leaving the testis and epididymis, which appeared sound in the midst of a diseased mass. The man speedily re- covered. As this case explains well the pathological changes which a haimntocele undergoes, and the treatment required in an advanced state of the dis- ease, I will give it in detail. Charles U , aged forty-five, was operated upon for hydrocele during the course of the year 18.5.5 in University College Hospital, with apparent success. In about two years from the date of the operation, however, the complaint began to return. Some months after this, in November 1857, during a violent fit of cough- ing, he felt something give wa)', and an exten- sive and alarming swelling suddenly made its appearance, affecting the scrotum, penis, and cel- lular tissue over the pubes. This swelling, from its suddenness and from the discoloration of the skin, was evidently occasioned by effusion of blood. The swelling was punctured by a trocar, and a considerable quantity of bloody fluid escaped, inflammation followed, and the tumor returned. In December of the same year he was admitted under my care in St. Mary's Hospital w.ith a large pyriforni swelHng in the scrotum on the left side, looking like a hydrocele. The upper narrow part of the tumor corresponding to the cord was sepa- rated by a slight constriction from the lovver and more globular portion. On manipulation, it was found that the tunica vaginalis was thicker than in an ordinary hydrocele, and that the fluctuation was rather less distinct. Five ounces of a dark bloody fluid were drawn off. A sharp attack of inflamma- tion followed the use of the trocar, accompanied by a return of the swelling. On the 6th of January 10.58, all inflammation having subsided, the follow- ing operation was performed. An incision three or four inches in length was made in front of the tumor, through the superficial coverings of the testicle, into the tunica vaginalis. This membrane was found to be much thickened, varjnng in this respect from three to six lines in different parts. It was of a yellowish white colour, tough, and sufficiently firm to retain its form. Two or three ounces of a dis- coloured fluid escaped from its interior. The re- mainder of its contents appeared to consist of coagulable lymph undergoing organic changes, and arranged so as to form numerous soft partitions, re- sembling considerably the honeycomb appearance" seen in severe and fatal cases of pericarditis. The interspaces betvireen these partitions were filled with serum, more or less tinged by the colouring matter of the blood. Here and there a more decided oval or globular little collection of thii fluid might be noticed, looking like a cyst in the process of formation. The whole of these half-; organised contents of the thickened tunica vagi- nalis were readily turned out with the finger; there was no adhesion sufficiently firm to require the use of the knife. The thickened and emptied tunica vaginalis was then dissected away from the scrotum, and detached from the testis and cord at its line of reflection from these structures. The portion of this membrane left adhering to the tunica albugi- nea and to the cord, did not fortunately partake of the thickening which in so marked a degree affected the part removed. The testis itself was not harder than usual, nor did it exceed its natural size. The patient lost a good deal of blood during the operation, and again the next day from secon- dary hreniorrhage, by which he was much blanched and debilitated. A.healthy suppuration, however, was soon established ; the granulations springing from the testis gradually united with those from the scrotum, and the patient made a steady, but slow recovery. He was discharged cured on the 16th of March 1058. The treatment to be adopted in the several states in which cases of hajmatocelemay presentthemselves may bo thus summed up. In recent cases the attempts at obtaining resolution by rest, by discu- tient lotions, and by support to the tumor, com- bined with antiphlogistic treatment, will often succeed. If this plan fail, and the blood remain