•236 ANEURISM. are given by Pelletan, fully confirming the view taken of the nature of the disease by Dr. Mac- lacblan and Mr. Syme. (See Clinique Chir. t. ii.) Boyer, who saw one of these cases, describes all the arteries of the swelling as being dilated, tor- tuous, knotty ; and though very^ large in some placeSj in others contracted. {Traite. des Mai. Chir. t. ii. p. 295.) In the tumor described by Dr. Maclachlan, none of the cells spoken of by Mr. John Bell were found ; no parenchyma, as in the spleen ; the bulk of the tumor was formed almost entirely by convoluted dilated arterial trunks, the veins being but little changed from their healthy state. He adds, that these arteries did not appear to communicate more freely than by their ordinary inosculations. Some of these con- clusions appear to me to require corroboration by a careful anatomical injection of the vessels. Why, however, should there not be varieties in this disease ? The observations of Baron Dupuytren make allusion to modifications of it; and, according to Mr. Guthrie, dissection has shown, that in some instances the tumor has been formed by contor- tions and reflections of the vessels alone ; whilst, in others, the spongelike appearance has been more distinct. {On Dis. of Arteries, p. 343.) He adds that in nsevi of large size and marked cha- racters, as well as in aneurism by anastomosis, the disease essentially consists of vessels, with the in- terposition of very little cellular structure. How- ever this may be, I believe Dupuytren correct in describing aneurism by anastomosis as essentially a new growth, consisting of an adventitious erectile areolar tissue, pervaded by a congeries of blood vessels. Thus, in giving the particulars of a case of aneurism by anastomosis of the ear and side of the head, Dupuytren states, that two very different elements were distinguishable in the mass, both by the finger and the eye. The first presented itself in the form of wide, sinuous, irregular knotty tubes, full and compressible, winding over the temple and ear, to which they communicated a knobby appearance. These tubes arose one from another, in the manner of arteries; and the trunk of them, which was equal in size to the little finger, gradu- ally diminished, still retaining, however, in its smallest branches, the diameter of a crow-quill ; and these could be traced even into the skin. The origin, the situation, the direction, and the divisions of these tubes, and especially their pulsations, syn- chronous with those of the heart, and the force of which seemed to threaten every instant a rupture of the tumor, and a perilous hemorrhage, were a suf- ficient proof that they were formed by the arterial system of the ear, temple, and occipital region, extraordinarily dilated in its trunks, branches, and cutaneous ramifications. All that did not imme- diately belong to the dilatation of the arterial triniks, was formed of accidental erectile tissue, which filled up the interstices of the network of vessels, and gave to the parts their purple colour, their higher temperature, and tlieir double movement of expansiou and subsidence. The tumor shri- velled and became pale undnr slight compression ; but soon resumed its usual colour, size, and ten- sion. (See Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 1.3.) In the female subject, the licmorrhage from the aneurism by anastomosis is Bometimcs a substitute for menstruation, as the following exam])Io illus- trates :—Ann Vachot, of St. Maury, in Bicsse, was born with a tumor on her chin, of the size and shnpe of a small strawberrj', without pain, heat, or discoloration of the skin. As it produced no uneasiness, nor inconvenience whatever, it ex- cited little attention, particularly as it did not seem to increase with the growth of the child. For the first fifteen years, there was but little alteration ; but, about the menstrual period, it increased sud- denly to double the size, and Ijecame more elon- gated in its form. A quantity of red blood was observed to ooze from its extremit}'. This flux became, in some measure, periodical, and some- times was sufficiently abundant to produce an alarming degree of weakness. Each period of its return was preceded by a violent pain in the head and numbness. Before and after the appearance of these symptoms there was no alteration in the size of the tumor ; the only difference was a small enlargement of the cutaneous veins, with an in- crease of heat in the part, occasioning some degree of tenderness. The menses at length took place, but in small quantity, and at irregular periods, without influencing the blood discharged from the tumor, or the frequency of the evacuation. The breasts were not enlarged till a late period, nor did the approach of puberty seem to have its accus- tomed influence on those glands, &c. (See Pa- risian Chir. Journ. vol. ii. p. 73, 74.) In the article NiEVUS, I shall explain the modes of treatment applicable to the superficial kinds, and at present consider what should be done for the cure or relief of the subcutaneous and deeper forms of the disease, to which the term aneurism by anastomosis more particularly refers. The first plan which I shall notice is that of removing the disease with a knife. This should only be attempted where the morbid tissue does not extend too deepl}', and where there is a fair prospect of being able to take every particle of it away without endangering life by hemorrhage. As Mr. John Bell inculcates, the rule in this operation is not to cut into the diseased part, but to cut it out (see Principles of Surgery, Disc, ix.) ; a piece of advice repeated by Mr. Wardrop, whenhesaj-s, the surgeon should avoid cutting into the tumor ; for, unlessthiscautionbe attended to, thehemorrhage is violent ; whereas, by making the incisions beyond the diseased structure, the flow of blood is ranch more moderate. {Mad. Chir. Trans, vol. ix. p, 212). If the incisions be carried into the morbid tissue, the hemorrhage will be great, because the enlarged and diseased vessels have lost their power of con- tracting, and there will also be a probability of the return of the disease. " If the n.-cvus be large, round, or of a figure which does not admit of its being removed by two elliptical incisions,^ so as to give a reasonable hope of union, or if the cicatrix is likely to be large and unseemly, the operation by ligature is to be preferred." (See Guthrie, On Dis. of Arteries, p. 346.) I find that extirpa- tion witli the knife answers remarkably well when the disease is on the lip, or part of the ear, care being taken to cut in the sound part. I have removed many swellings of this kind from the lips of young children, and always found the hemor- rhage cease directly the edges of the wound were brought together with the twisted suture. The following case, recorded by Mr. Wardrop, aft'ords a valuable illustration of the nature .and structure of one form of this disease. A clii d was born with a subcutaneous nicvus on the back part of the neck, of tlic form and size of Inilf an oi-