CICATBIX, 4G1 ,1 as to allow of gliding ; and, provided tlio whole tliickness of the skin Ima not been destroyed, papilliB are developed on the surface, and pig- ment in the deeper layers of cuticle. To a cer- tain degree also,—not any great degree if much of the skin has been destroyed,—the scar loses its distinctness, and the natural characteristics of the skin are regained. In the case of burns, the contraction of cica- trices is commonly a source of prodigious defor- mity and trouble. (See Burns.) In like man- ner, the contraction of the cicatrices of ulcers in the intestines and urethra, or of new fibrous tissue de- veloped from disease, gives rise to strictures. In the mouth, after sloughing of the inside of the cheeks and gums from profuse salivation, the cica- trised surface is so rigid as scarcely to allow of the separation of the teeth, but it becomes more pliant in time. After rupture of the perinaium, the cica- trix contracts longitudinally, so as to draw the posterior commissure of the viilva down to near the anus. When cicatrices have been subjected to great and long continued irritation, they are liable to acquire the most grisly hardness, as in fis- tulte of the perinseum, and in stricture. Morbid States op Cicatrices. The newly formed tissue, even when perfected, is liable to morbid states which may occupy the surgeon's attention. Thus It is said, that in the scurvy, cicatrices, even of years' duration, are liable to break out afresh into open wounds. If attacked by inflammation before the healing process is complete, they are sure to be melted down by suppuration, and the work of weeks or months may be destroyed in a few hours, Nevertheless, it is said that they are not attacked by the small-pox, measles, or the scarlatina. {Du- puytren, Clin. C7«V. t. ii. p. 47.) If this is so, it is because the vascular surface, which is the seat of the erythema, is absent. The cicatrix of a chancre, so long as it remains indurated and swelled, seems still to contain some of the syphilitic poison, and is liable to ulcerate afresh, and to propagate infection as the original sore would have done. The contraction of cicatrices, after burns, renders it often necessary to resort to operation for the purpose of loosening parts bound together, and re storing the natural form and use to the parts im plicated. (See Cicatrix.) Similar operations are sometimes requisite in the case of irregular cica- trices about the eyelids. In contradistinction to the common process of shrinking and atrophy, cicatrices are sometimes liable to bo the seat of a hypertrophic process which produces flat, slightly elevated tumors, similar to those which are called Keloid. Such tumors seem to consist of the ordinary skin tissues intermixed with fihro-j^laslio elements. M Lcbert narrates the history of a child ten years and a half old, who had on the back numerous Ice hid tumors developed in the scars which resulted from several applications effused potass by a quack who had promised by that means to cure a scrofu- lous affection from which the child suffered. {Traitc pratique des Maladies Canccrouses, p. G83.) (See Tumors.) As M. Lebert observes elsewhere, ke hid may be designated a spontaneous cicatricial alteration of the skin. Rokitansky and Wedl gay the same. a puytren. Lastly, cicatrices, especially of the lower ex- tremitj', are occasionally the seat of warty growths, which degenerate into epithelioma—q. v.] It. Druili. [Ihrntet- on the Blood, &c. Paget, Lectures on Sursical Patliology, &c. vol. i. Wedl, Pathological Histology (Sydenham Society). Caisar Ihmhins on Warty Tumors, of Cicatrices, Med. Chir. Trans. 1855. Lehcrt, Anatomie Pathologique. Hannover, das Epithelioma, &c. 1852, pp. 106, 113, &c. Rokitansky, vol. ill. (Sydenham Soc)- CICATRIX. A scar: the mark left after the healing of a wound or ulcer. Also, the new formed production, or the substance of _ tho cicatrix, which is covered with a very delicate adherent, and smooth, shining cuticle, the ex- istence of which is easily demonstrated by means f a blister or maceration. Under this stratum dense tissue, composed, according to Du- of fibrous layers, more or less dense, and crossing one another in all directions. Be- tween the tissue of (lie cicatrix, as Dupuytren calls it, — the tissue inodulaire of Delpech and other French writers — and the cuticle, there is no trace of rete mucosum, or deep, soft, layers of epidermis, which circumstance seems to Dupuytren to explain, why a cicatrix presents the same colour in the negro and the European. The tissue of a cicatrix contains neither sebaceous follicles, nor hair-bulbs ; at all events, this is the case when the whole thickness of the skin has been destroyed. The same tissue is pierced by a small number of exhalant, or ab- sorbent pores. [In some cases the original sub- cutaneous cellular tissue beneath it is in a healthy, lax condition, permitting the cicatrix to move freely upon the deeper parts. In other cases, the cellular tissue has been destroyed, or so altered that there is a firm attachment between the cicatrix and the subjacent parts.] The appearance, and likewise in some measure the texture of a cicatrix, were observed by Du- puytren to differ according to the causes which produced the solution of continuity. The lapse of many years will not prevent a man of experience from distinguishing the cicatrices of burns from those which have been caused by sharp instruments; and both these kinds from others resulting from ulcerated cancer, herpetic diseases, syphilitic sores, scrofulous abscesses. The importance of this kind of knowledge in medical jurisprudence is very property insisted upon by Dupuytren, some- times to establish the identity of individuals, and sometimes to define the nature of the cause by which the solution of continuity has been pro- duced. The vascularity of cicatrices is various. In ge- neral they are only furnished with a few very minute capillary ramifications, scarcely capable of being injected. In the face they are sometimes seen retaining all their whiteness in the midst of the general redness of the countenance occasioned by heat, blushing, &c. ; yet they are not insensible to external impressions, and as they are acutely painful, when inflamed, they must receive nerves, though in small number. How sensitive they are with respect to different states of tho atmosphere, and how faithfully the painful shootings in them announce to many individuals the temperature and moisture of the air, is another point adverted to by Dupuytren in proof of their having nerves. (See Cliniqicc Chir. t. ii. p. 42.) [The reader will find under Burns a full descrip