EXOPHTHALMIA. 647 r T 4 from a steatoma in the orWt, where, though vision was entirely prevented during tlie displacement, the pupil was of its regular shape, and the iris capable of motion : after the extirpation of the tumor, the eyesight became so good, that the patient could dis- cern tbe smallest objects. {N'eue BitiL bd. ii. p. 240.) In order to reduce the eye into its natural position, it is necessary to remove the cause by which its protnision is occasioned. Suppuration and fungous tumors in the antrum must be treated according to directions laid down in the article Antrum. The induration and swelling of the cellular substance in the orbit may be sometimes dispersed by means of mercury. {Louis, sur Plusieurs Maladies du Globe de I'CEil, in Mem. de VAoad. Royalede Chirurgie, t. xiii. ^d. l"2rao.) When such treatment fails, we are recommended to extirpate the eye. (Richter, Anfangsgv. der Wimdarzn, bd. iii. p. 413.) Ex- ostoses, situated in the anterior part of the orbit, may sometimes be removed. The continental sur- geons generally advise us to expose the tumor by an incision, and to apply caustic or the actual cautery to it, in order to kill the protuberant part of the bone, and make it exfoliate. In this coun- try, most practitioners would prefer the employment of cutting instruments for removing such exostoses. When, however, the tumor lies deeply in the orbit, if it cannot be got at, and it should resist the effect of mercurial and other medicines, we are directed to extirpate the eye. {Richter, op. et loco cit.) Abscesses in the orbit ought to be opened, and after this has been done, the eye generally re- turns into its proper position. {Pellier.) When encysted tumors in the orbit admit of being extir- pated in the customary manner, the plan should be adopted ; but, when this cannot be done, Richter's advice may be followed, which is to open them, press out the contained matter, and afterwards ex- tract the cyst. Considerable difficulty, however, frequently attends every effort to remove the whole cyst, and unless this be done, a permanent cicatri- sation cannot be expected. (See Traverses Si/nopsis, p. 225. See Tumoks, En'cysted.) On account of the vicinity of the brain, and the commnnication between the parts within the orbit, and the dura mater, the extirpation of tumors from that cavity is not exempt from risk of fatal conse- quences, as two cases, published by Langenbock, fully prove. {Neue Bihl. bd. ii. pp. 241—244.) I remember a young lady who was referred to Mr. Lawrence and myself, by Mr. Maul of Southampton, for advice respecting a tumor, occupying the inner and upper portion of the orbit, and attended with a degree of exophthalmia, constant exacerbation at the period of the menses, and occasionally double vision. (See Diplopia.) We refrained from ad- vising any immediate attempt at extirpation, the swelling being so firm and immovable, that the disease was suspected to be partly of a bnny nature. However, on seeing this case, about a fortniglit afterwards, I was surprised to find tiie tumor not moi-e than half its former size, and all the firm and (what was conceived to be) bony induration below the superciliary ridge of the os frontis gone, as well as the exophthalmia, and derangement of vision. Some sharp bnny irregularities, however, could now be most plainly felt, projecting in front of the di- minished swelling. A memorable case of exophthalmia is related by Mr. Travers ; the globe of the eye appears to have been gradually forced upwards and outwards, and to have had its motions considerably impeded, in consequence of the orbit being partly occupied by two swellings, which were of the nature of aneurism bj' anastomosis. (See Aneurism.) The swell- ings could not have been removed, without at the same time extirpating the eye. Mr. Travers was therefore induced to try whether applying a liga- ture to the carotid artery would have the effect of checking and curing the disease ; an expectation which was warranted by analogous instances, in which the growth of swellings, and their dispersion, are brought about by lessening the quantity of blood determined to them. The experiment completely succeeded ; the swellings in the vicinity of the eye subsided ; the patient was freed from several griev- ous complaints, to which she had been previously subject; and, amongst other benefits, a cure of the exophthalmia was one result, which most interests us in the present place. The case is also highly important on other accounts, and, more particularly as confirming the fact, that the carotid arterj' may be tied, without any dangerous effects on the brain, and as proving, that, in cases of aneurism, the sur- geon should not be afraid of proceeding to such an operation. (See iV/erf. Cliir. Trans, vol. ii. art. 1.) The judgment and decision with which Mr. Tra- vers acted in this case, appear to me highly meri- torious. The carotid artery was also tied by Mr. Dal- rj'mple, of Norwich, in a case very similar to the preceding, and with equal success. (See Med. Chir.Trans, vol. vii. p. Ill, &c.) Mr. Guthrie has seen an exophthalmia on each side, the result of an aneurism of each ophthalmic artery, and other disease in the orbits. (Operative Surgery of iUe Eye, p. )S8.) When the causes of exophthalmia have been re- moved, the eye must be put into its natural situa- tion. If the organ has been long displaced, the surgeon often finds the fulfilment of this indication attended with difficulty. Indeed, he is frequently obliged to employ methodical bandages for the pur- pose of promoting the gradual return of the eye into the orbit. Yet, even in such cases, the eyesight is often regained: but, if this should not happen spontaneously, stimulants and tonics are to be applied. [Mr. Poland, in a paper published in the Opli- tltalmic Hospital Reports, October 1857, gives the most recent systematic view of the causes of pro- trusion of the eyeball. 1. Congenital.—a. Real protrusion ; h. Apparent from shortening of levator palpebral and lids. 2. In the eye itself. — a. Inflammation of the globe, ophthalmitis ; h. Phlebitic ophthalmitis ; c. Hydrophthalraos ; rf. Tumors (1. Scrofulous ; 2. Encephaloid ; 3. Melanotic ; 4. Osseous degenera- tion ; 5. Hydatid). 3. Within orbit. — a. Inflammation of cellular tissue, idiopathic and traumatic; b. Suppuration and abscess; rZ. Erysipelatous and phlegmonous inflam- mation ; e. Foreign bodies ; /. Excess of develop- mentof fat; g. Tumors (1. Encysted ; 2. Hydatid; 3. Encephaloid ; 4. Osseous) ; /(. Aneurism and effusions of blood ; i. Venous congestion ; /,•. Para- lysis of nnisclcs of eyeball—ophthalmoplegia ; I. Spasm of muscles of eyeball, as in tetanus. 4. Krtcrnal lo orbit.—a. Above: nodes, hydro- cephalus, fungus of dura inata, polypi in frontal cells and diseases thereof, tumors of brain ; b. Be- low": diseases of the antrum ; c. Internal : nasal