HBMERALOPIA but sluggishly upon exposure to light, while the e3'es themselves seemed devoid of their usu;il energy and vivacity. (See Edin. Med. and Sur- gical Jour. No. 74, p. 22.) The proximate causes of hemeralopia are not well ascertained. Sleeping with the face exposed to the brilliancy of daylight, the vivid reflection of the sun's rays from the sandy shores of hot countries, and bright moonlight, have been enu- merated as exciting causes. Dr. Pye regards the disorder as intermittent. {Med. Obs. and In- quiries, vol. i. art. 13.) But, as Mr. Bampfield properly observes, though the complaint is cer- tainly periodical, there is nothing in its character tending to prove, that it is influenced by the same causes as intermittent fever. The latter gentle- man conjectures, "that too much light suddenly transmitted to the retina, or for a long period acting on it, may afterwards render it unsuscepti- ble of being stimulated to action, by the weaker or smaller quantities of light transmitted to it by night." (P. 44.) The same sentiment is adopted by Dr. Smith. {Edin. Med. Journ. No. 74, p. 23.) Amongst other objections to this explanation, however, it might be remarked, that the patients do not always see, though the light be good; and Mr. Bampfield's own "pa- tients positively denied the existence of distinct sight by very clear candlelight." Besides, if the disease were entirely caused by the sudden or long operation of vivid light, one would conclude, that all persons subjected to that cause ought to have the effect produced, which is far from being the case. When the tongue is white, and the patient has headache and bilious complaints, M. Lassus thinks the cause of the disease is in the stomach and primse vife. The same author likewise states that hemeralopia attacks debilitated persons, subject to catarrhal aflFections, residing in damp situations, and living on indigestible food. From the combi- nation of such causes (says he) the disorder was epidemic in the vicinity of Montpellier {Sauvaye, Nosolog. Method, t. ii. p. 732); at Belle-Isle sur Mer {Recueil d'Observ. de Medecine des Hopitaux Mitilaires, par Richard, t. ii. p. 673); and hence it is endemic in watery situations, where the nights are cold and damp. They who expose themselves to this humidity (says M. Lassus), or who navi- gate along the eastern coasts of Africa, who traverse the Mozambique channel, or sail along the coasts of Malabar and Coromandcl, are sometimes at- tacked by it. (See Pathologic Chir. t. ii. p. 642, 543.) Hemeralopia sometimes occurs as a symptom of the scurvy. This fact was noticed by Mr. Tel- ford, in Sir O. Blanc's Treatise on Diseases of Seamen, and it is likewise confirmed by Mr. Bampfield, who remarks, that hemeralopia should be referred to the same causes as scurvy, " when the subject of it has for a long period subsisted on a salted diet at sea, &c., and if any other scor- butic symptom be present, such as spongy gums, ecchymoses, saline smell of the secretions, ulcers, with liver-like fungus, &c." {Medico-Ohir. Trans. vol. V. p. 46.) [Mr. Wharton .Tones has met with two cases apparently arising from exposure of the eyes to the vapour of naphtha. The following is one of these cases :—A lad, aged 17, has been working for a fortnight with shell-lac, naphtha, and gutta- percha. Since then, he finds that his sight, which 939 IS perfectly good durmg the day, regularly becomes dmi at night. {Ophthalmic Medicine and Suracrv ed. 2, p. 347.)] In Jidy and August, 1834, hemeralopia was epidemic m two battalions of the 19th Prussian regiment of the line, 138 soldiers having been attacked by it, while quartered at Ehrenbreitstein and Pfaffendorf. Those who suffered were unable to find their muskets, if they put them out of their hands at night, and they experienced such diffi- culty in discerning at that time, even near objects, that they were afraid of quitting the sentry-box, lest they should not find it again. Surgeon-general Hiibiier attributed the origin of the disorder to the following causes :—I. The great heat of the summer. 2. The fatigue of the men in the fre- quent ascent of the steep heights of Ehrenbreit- stein and Pfaffendorf. 3. The frequency of their exercise and parade on an unshaded and dazzling sandy soil, where also they were exposed to the reflection of the sun from the Rhine. 4. The ex- treme darkness of their rooms, which rendered their eyes too sensible to bear the open daylight without ill consequences. (See Med'. Zeitung, and Dubl. Journ. of Med. Science, vol. viii. p. 123.) This disease (according to Scarpa) may commonly be completely cured, and oftentimes in a very short time by employing emetics, aperient powders, and pills, and a blister on the nape of the neck; and topically, the vapours of ammonia; followed, to- wards the end of the treatment, by bark, conjoined with valerian. In cases in which the disease has been preceded by plethora, and suppressed per- spiration, bleeding and sudorifics are also indicated, (Cap. xix. p. 322, 333.) One hundred cases of idiopathic, and two hun- dred of symptomatic or scorbutic hemeralopia occurred in the practice of Mr. Bampfield, in different parts of the globe, but chiefly in the East Indies. All these cases perfectly recovered, and hence ^ve may infer, that, under proper treatment, a favourable prognosis may always be given In a few instances, however, night blindness is congenital and constitutional, and altogether be- yond the reach of any curative measure. It is said sometimes to be hereditary; and the writer of the article Nyctalopia, in Dr. Rees's Cyclopaidia was acquainted with an instance, in which it occurred to two children of the same family. A congenital case which had continued many years without change, and independently of any disease, is re lated by Dr. Parham. (See Med. Obs. and In. quiries, vol. i. p. 122, note.) The treatment which Mr. Bampfield adopted was simple. "A succession of blisters to the tem- ples (says he), of the size of a crown, or half crown piece, applied tolerably close to the external canthus of the eye, has succeeded in every case of idiopathic hemeralopia which I have seen' &c The first application of blisters commonly enables the patient to see dimly by candlelight, or perceive objects without the power of discriminating what they are. In some slight cases, which admitted of easy cure, the first application succeeded perfectlv Ihe second application of blisters commonly enables the patient to see by candlelight distinctly perhaps by bright moonlight, and even half an hour alter sunset, or the sight is restored for short periods during the night, and is again abolished. 1 he second application very often effects a perfect recovery. The third, fourth, or fifth applications