FRACTURE efforts of the double-inclined plane." By the same plan, likewise, Dr. Plouaton observes that pain and excoriation of the heel may be easily prevented It a, narrow pad be laid between thd limb and bed, a little above the heel. The apparatus which this gentleman employs for fractures of the lower ex- tremities, is a modification of that recommended by Desault, and consists of a tailed bandage, two long lateral splints, and splint-cloth, two calico bags containing bran, and broad straps with buckles, together with a footboard, and if necessary, lacs of calico for the purposes of extension. " The tails of the bandage may be two inches and a half broad, and about two feet long. They should be applied neatly around the limb,' with due regard to lightness. The application of this bandage tends to steady and support the muscles, and, if much inflammation be present, it may, when very lightly applied, be of use in conveying discutient"washes. In a case of compound fracture, the bandage may be left out to facilitate the discharge of matter, and to_ permit the application of poultices or dressings, without disturbing the other parts of the appara- tus. The splints may be made of deal, of sufficient thickness to prevent their bending, and from 2^ to 31 inches in breadth, according to the thickness of the limb to which they are to be applied. They should be of equal breadth, as otherwise the limb will turn to the side of the narrow one. In case of necessity for permanent extension, the external splint should be made, as directed by Desault, with a hole and notch at either end, by which to fasten the lac ; and it will be advantageous here to have this splint of sufficient length to mount well up along the side of the abdomen, as the higher the point to which the lac is fastened the more effectually will the extension be exerted in the axis of the limb." Dr. Houston prefers pads of linen, or calico, filled with bran, and about one-third broader than the splints. If permanent extension be necessary, the upper lac, or band for counter-extension, he recommends to be filled in a baglike form with bran, in order to prevent excoriation of the groin. The ends of this lac should be long enough to be carried round the abdomen, after being fastened to the top of the splint, by which means the splint will be effec- tually secured to the side. In order that the ex- tension of the lower end may be made as much as possible in the line of the axis of the limb, Dr. Houston deems it advantageous to draw the lac through a hole or slit in the centre of the footboard, which will thereby serve as a pulley to give the lac a perpendicuhir direction, before it is turned ■ towards the extremity of the outer splint, to which It is to be fiistened. A piece of leather, introduced between the ankle and the lac, will save the skin from the injurious effects of pressure. The lac may consist of a long strip of calico, doubled up several times into a breadth of about an inch and a half, and smoothed so as to make it lie flatly. The mode of its application may be that usually practised for the reduction of dislocations, by which extension is made equally from both side's of the limb. For other particuiars, the reader is releired to Dr. Houston's paper. (See Dublin Jom-n. of Med. Scic„co.,yo\. viii. art. 19.) 1 bus we find that Dr. Houston's principles and practice, ni relation to fractures of the thigh, are as opposite as possible to those of Pott, and coin- cide very closely with those of Desault. As no posture will under the muscles from displacing the ends of the Iracfire, I have always recommended that_ to be generally preferred in which the most efficient mechanical aid can be employed The position chosen by Pott I have therefore Ion' abandoned, and tried sometimes a slightly flexed position, on a well-made double-inclined plane wi h footboard, and pelvis, and thigh-straps ; buj of late still more frequently the straight position. During the firstyear after the opening of University College Hospital, I tried both plans promiscuou<l/ and nearly every case terminated without deformitv- but as the patients in the straight position appeared to suffer east inconvenience, I have since commonly preferred it. With regard to Dr. Houston's observation, that the double-inclined plane cannot be made to "bind the pelvis and broken fragments together as one piece, only moveable together," it cannot apply to one of proper construction, like that of Amesbury, with a pelvis and thigh strap. 1 have now a woman under my care in University College Hospital, whose thigh-bone is broken close below the trochanter minor. The extended posi- tion was tried for the first few days ; but as the upper fragment continued to project considerably forwards, the slightly flexed posture, on a double- inclined plane, with a pelvis strap, was adopted; and the ends of the fracture were then kept toge- ther without difficulty; and the union of them has taken place very favourably. Fractures of the femur, near the knee, are re- commended by Sir Astley Cooper to be treated in the extended position, with lateral splints. Instead of the position advised by Pott, or that recommended by Desault and Boyer, some surgeons prefer the posture in which the patient lies upon his back, with the limb supported in the bent attitude by means of a wooden frame. This machine, in its most simple form, consists merely of boards, ten or eleven inches in breadth, one reaching from the heel to the ham, the other from the ham to the tuberosity of the ischium. Under the knee-joint they are united at an angle, while a horizontal board connects their lower ends together. Thus they form two sloping surfaces, to which cushions are adapted, and over which the limb can be placed in an easy bent position. Near the edge of the inclined boards holes are made, furnished with pegs. After the bone has been set a long splint is applied from the hip to the side of the knee, and another along the inside of the thigh. (See Sir Charles Bell's Opcraiive Surgery, vol. ii. p. 189.") The foregoing apparatus does not sufficiently secure the log and foot from motion, though, with the aid of a roller and a footboard, this advantage might easily be obtained. At present, therefore, the oblique planes of Amesbury and M'Intyre are generally preferred, which are more coniphne, admit of being placed at any angle, and fulfil their ])urpose with greater efficiency, particularly when the pelvis and thigh straps .are" employed. Indeed, whatever apparatus be applied, or whatever posture be chosen, the pelvis strap is a most importniit thing if the fracture be high up ; and without its assistance,as Dupuytrcn justly remarks, the patient cannot be cured without deformitj'. (Clin. Chir. t. i. p. ,S3;J.) The fracture bed, devised by my friend Mr. Earle, is excellently calculated for this mode of treatment, and has a contrivance by which the patient is enabled to have stools without mov- ing himself or changing his posture in the slightest