624 EMPYEMA, tients with empyema can sometimes lie in any position, without particular aggravation of the dif- ficulty of breathing, yet, it ought to be distinctly understood, that the generality of patients cannot jilace themselves on the side opposite to that on which the collection of pus is situated, without their respiration being very materially obstructed. Another circumstance, also, which deserves to be mentioned while we are treating of the symptoms of empyema, is, that the oedema of the integu- ments is sometimes not confined to the thorax, but extends to more remote parts, on the same side of the body as the collection of matter. Both the foregoing remarks are confirmed by au interesting case published by Mr. Hey. Sept. 3, 1788, Mr. Hey was desired to visit John Wilkinson, who had been ill ten days of the influenza. Tlie patient was found labouring under a fever, attended with cough, difficulty of breath- ing, and pain in the left side of tiie thorax. He was bled once; blisters were repeatedly applied to the chest; and he took nitre and antimonials, with a smooth linctus to allay his cough. " He was re- j)eatedly relieved by these means, especially by the application of the blisters ; but repeatedly relapsed. At last, he became so ill, that he breathed with the utmost difficulty, and could not lie on the right side, without danger of immediate suffocation.'' Mr. Hey found the patient in the state just now described on the 17th of September. "His face and especially his eyelids were a little swollen on the left side." The left side of the thorax was larger than the right, and its integuments were oedematous. Upon pressing the intercostal mus- cles, they felt distended ; they yielded a little to a strong pressure, but rebounded again. The abdomen, especially at its upper part, appeared to be fuller than in the natural state. (See Heys I'vactkal Obs. in Surgery, p. 476.) This last symptom is also particularly noticed by Boyer. (Mai. Chir. t. vii. p. 357.) Another remarkable symptom, which is occa- sionally produced by collections of fluids in the chest, is an alteration in the position of the heart. I have seen a patient in St. Bartholomew's hos- pital, who had so large a quantity of matter in the left bag of the pleura, that it completely displaced the heart, which pulsated against the inside of the chest, at a considerable distance to the right of the sternum. This man's life might perhaps have been saved, had paracentesis thoracis been performed in time. Some suspected an aneurism from the throbbing on the right of the sternum ; and the case was not fully understood till after death, when the body was opened. Closer attention to the symptom, however, might have shown that it was an empyema, and that making an opening, for the discharge of the matter, aiforded the only ra- tional chance of preserving life. There h.id been pain and inflammation in the chest, followed by ^hivcring9 ; there was very great difficulty of lireathing ; the heart, which previously used to beat in the usual place, no longer did so ; but now pulsated on the right side of tiie thorax. That the heart should be displaced in this man- ner by any large collectinu of fluid in the left cavity of the thorax, one would naturally expect. Baron Liirroy has related a highly-interesting case, where the heart was not only pushed considerably to the right of the sternum, but its action was so much impeded by the derangement of its position. that the pulse in the large arteries was thereby rendered extremely feeble. In this instance, also, the diaphragm had descended so low down 'as to force some of the small intestines into the cavity of the pelvis. {Man. de Chir. Militaire, t. iii. p. 447, &c.) Pelletan has recorded an example, in which a collection of fluid in the left cavity of the chest displaced the heart, the pulsations of which were perceptible betwixt the third and fourth ribs of the right side, near the sternum. {CliniquA Chir. t. iii. p. 276.) Boyer speaks of one case, in which the displacement of the heart was so exten- sive that its pulsations were felt near the right axilla. (Traiti des Mai. Chir. t. vii. p. 357.) In the anatomical collection at Strasburg, is a pre- paration exhibiting the displacement of the heart into the right side of the chest, by matter in the left pleura, the left lung being nearly annihilated. (Lobaiein, Compte de son Museum Anat. p. 39,8vo. 1820.) When empyema is on the right side, the change in the heart's position is not in general so remarkable; yet, with the stethoscope, it will ge- nerally be found to pulsate considerably to the left of its natural situation. In two cases, referred to by Dr. Townsend, the pulsation was distinctly felt in the axilla between the fourth and fifth ribs. {Cyclopcedia ofPract. Med. art. Emjyyenia.) The heart is sometimes thrust downward by col- lections of fluid in both sides of the chest, and its pulsation is distinguishable in the epigastrium. {Hodgson, On the Diseases of Artej-ies and Veins, p. 95.) In cases of extensive empyema, even the liver has been pressed down into the right iliac fossa. {Stall, Ratio Medendi.) The descent of the diaphragm, by thrusting the abdominal viscera be- fore it, may cause an appearance as if the liver were enlarged. Of this, an instance is recorded by M. Roux, the true nature of which was detected by Bichat, who cured the patient by paracentesis. {CEimr. Chir. de Desault, t. iii.) When the cavity of the pleura contains fluid, and the siu-geon strikes the thorax repeatedly with the ends of his fingers, a dull sound is produced, quite different from what would occur, were the chest in its natural state. Besides this dulness of sound on percussion, the respiratory murmur is absent on the diseased side, which remains per- fectly' motionless, when the cavity is entirely filled witli fluid. Sometimes the lung is not completely compressed by the fluid, and then a diminished respiratory murmur, oegophonj', &c., may be heard over parts of the thorax. In the opposite lung, puerile respiration is distinguishable, accom- panied with violent action of the respiratory muscles. The symptoms of erap3'ema are frequently equi- vocal. Panarolins opened a man, whose left lung was destroyed, at the same time that the thorax contained a considerable quantity of pus. Al- though the patient had been ill for two months, ho had suftered no difficulty of breathing, and had had only a slight cough. Le Dran met with a case of nearly the same kind. A patient, who had been for tliree days affected with a considerable oppres- sion, and an acute pnin on the leftside of the chest, got somewhat better. He felt no material difliculty of breathing, on whatever side he lay. The only thing which he complained of, was tlie sense of a fluctuation in the thora.\-, and a little obstruction of his respiration, when he was in a sitting posture. These symptoms did not seem sufficiently decided