938 HEMERALOPIA. According to M. Dujardin, it is derived from Vf^epa, the day, aXahs, blind, and fi>i|', the eye, and its right signification is therefore inferred to be diurna ccBcitado, or day-blindness. {See Jourmtl de Med. t. xix. p. 348.) In the same sense, Dr. Hillary (06s. on tlie Diseases of'Barbadoes, j). 298, edit. 2), and Heberden {Med. Trans, vol. 1, art. 5) have employed the term. Scarpa, on the other hand, with the generality of modern writers, considers hemeralopia as an affection, in which the patient sees very well in the day, but not after sunset; and it is in this sense that the word is used in the present article, in opposition to the 7iyctalopia of the ancients, or night-blindness. According to Sauvages, hemeralopia (in his nomenclature called amblyopia crepicscularis) was in some degree epidemic in the neighbourhood of Montpellier, in villages in damp situations, adjoining rivers, and it particularly affected the soldiers, who slept in the open damp air. They were cured, he says, by blistering, together with emetics and cathartics, and other evacuants, {Nosol. Method, class vi. gen. 3, spec. 1.) The abolition of eyesight by night (observes Mr. Bampfield) has occurred in all ages, and is a common disease of seamen in the East and West Indies, Mediterranean, and in all hot and tropical countries and latitudes, and affects more or less the natives likewise of tliose regions of the globe. It also occurs frequently among soldiers in the East and West Indies; but, he has been informed, that it is by no means so prevalent amongst them as sailors. It is not an uncommon complaint of the Lascars, employed in the Enst India Company's ships, trading between India and Europe. It has very rarely indeed affected the officers of her Ma- jesty's, or of the East India Company's ships. Celsus has remarked, that women and virgins, whose menstrual returns are regular, are exempt from this disease (lib. vi. cap. 6); and it may be observed, that the inhabitants of cold latitudes are less subject to hemeralopia in their own climate, than the natives of tropical countries are in theirs; but, more so, when they visit the tropics. {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. v. p. 38.) " Hemeralopia., or nocturnal blindness (says Scarpa), is properly nothing but a kind of imper- fect periodical amaurosis, most commonly sym- pathetic with the stomach. Its paroxysms come on towards the evening, and disappear in the morning. The disease is endemic in some countries, and epidemic, at certain seasons of the year, in others. " At sunset, objects appear, to persons affected with the complaint, as if covered with an ash- coloured veil, which gradually changes into a dense cloud, which intervenes between the eyes and surrounding objects. Patients with heme- ralopia have the pupil, both in the day and night- time, more dilated, and less movable, than it usually is in healthy eyes. The majority of them, however, have the pupil more or less movable in the day time, and always expanded and motionless at night. When brought into a room faintly lighted by a candle, where all the bystanders can see tolerably well, they cannot discern at all, or in a very feeble manner, scarcely any one object: or they only find themselves able to distinguish {iglit from darkness: and at moonlight their sight T"""- daybreak they recover their <W, l-n '''' ^on'iiM'es perfect all the rest of the «ay, tiU sunset." (Cap. xix. p. 322, ed. 8vo.) Mr. Bampfield represents the disease as always affecting both eyes. " In general (says this gen- tleman), the nocturnal blindness is at first partial, the patient is enabled to see objects a short time after sunset, and perhaps will be able to see a little by clear moonlight. At this period of the com- plaint, he is capable of seeing distinctly by bright candlelight. The nocturnal sight, however, be- comes daily more impaired and imperfect, and, after a few days, the patient is unable to discri- minate the largest objects after sunset, or by moon- light, &c.; and, finally, after a longer lapse of time, he cannot perceive any object distinctly by the brightest candlelight. If the patient is permitted to remain in this state of disease, the sight will become weak by daylight, the rays of the sun will be too powerful to be endured, whether they are direct or reflected; lippitude is sometimes induced; myopism, or shortness of sight, succeeds; and, in progress of time, vision becomes so impaired and imperfect, that apprehensions of a total loss of sight are entertained; and this dreadful consequence has been known to ensue, where the complaint has been totally neglected, or left to nature, or where ineffectual remedies have been employed." {Bontius, p. 73.) " It has been remarked by some, that the patients are capable of seeing distinctl)', at all periods of the complaint, with the aid of a strong artificial light; but, in bad cases of hemeralopia, in my practice, the patients positively denied the existence of the sense of distinct sight by ver}' clear candlelight." {Bampfield in Medieo-Cldr. Trans. vol. V. p. 39, 40.) The duration of the disease, when left to itself, is generally from two weeks to three or six months. Experience has not proved that the disposition to the complaint depends upon any particular colour of the iris, as several writers have conjectured; nor upon the largeness of the eyes, as alleged by Hip- pocrates. (Lib. vi. sec. 7.) In idiopathic cases, the health does not in ge- neral suffer, and, except in the worst stage, the eye is not altered in appearance. But, in cases of long duration, the pupil, according to Mr. Bampfield, " is often contracted, and the eyes and actions of the patient evince marks of painful irritation, if the eyes are exposed to a vivid light; or if he looks upward. But, if they meet the direct rays of the sun, which in the tropics are always powerful, or a strong glaring reflection of them, pain and temporary blindness are induced, from which the patient recovers, by closing his eyelids for a time to exclude the rays of light, and retiring to the shade. The pupil of the eye is considerably dilated, both bj' day and night, in the proportion of about one case in twelve, and at night the pupil is often dilated, and does no' perform its expansions and contractions, when ex- posed to the moon or artificial light. The caseSj attended with dilated pupil, were generally thos' of long duration, &c. " Europeans, who have been once affected wit hemeralopia, in tropical climates, are particularly liable to a recurrence of this disease, as long as they remain in them." {Bampfield, op. cit. p. 42, 43.) In two examples, described by Dr. Andrew Smith, the pupils were observed to contract and dilate regularly in the day time, according to the quantity of light; but, after sunset, they seeme a little more dilated than njituraJ, and contracted