DISLOCATION, draw the upper pnrt of this bone upward and in- ward, wiiich, only making a weak resistance to their action, changes its position, and takes one in the above double direction. The various motions imparted to the arm may also produce tlie same effect, according to their direction. Thus, in consequence of unskilful efforts to reduce the bone, a luxation inward frequently follows one downward. By the French surgeons, a great deal of importance lias been attached °to the division of dislocations of the humerus into primary and consecutive ; and perhaps some of their state- ments, on the secondary change in the position of the head of the bone, may be exaggerated. That a subsequent alteration in the situation of the bone may happen, from the causes specified by Desault, can hardly be questioned. The observations of Petit, Hey, and others, confirm the fact ; and I have myself seen a dislocation in the axilla change into one forward under the pectoral muscle. How- ever, Sir Astley Cooper believes that, excepting from violence, and the effect of absorption, the na- ture and direction of a dislocation are never changed, after the muscles have once contracted. {On Dis- locations, p. 416.) Perhaps, with the latter quali- fication, no great difference prevails between him and other writers. Sympioms.—Whatever may be the kind of dis- location, a depression is always manifest under the acromion, which forms a more evident projection, than in the natural state. Almost all the motions of the arm are painful ; some cannot be performed in any degree ; and they are all very limited. The arm cannot move withoutthe shoulder moving also ; because, the articulation being no longer able to execute its functions, both it and the shoulder form, as it were, one body. When the limb is moved, a slight crepitus may sometimes be felt, probably in consequence of the synovia having escaped through the laceration of the capsule. {Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations, p. 41,8.) 'To these sj'mptoms, gene- rally characteristic of every sort of dislocation of the humerus, are to be added such as are peculiar to each particular case. Sympioms of ihe Dislocation downwards.— When the luxation is downward the arm is a little longer than in the natural state ; the natural roundness of the shoulder is lost, in consequence of the deltoid muscle being drawn down with the head of the bone ; and the patient cannot use the arm. [The pectoralis major which forms the anterior fold, and the latissiraus dorsi and teres major which form the posterior fold, of the axilla, and which are inserted into the margins of the bicipital groove, are carried downwards with the displaced hone. The vertical depth of the axilla is therefore increased, and the measurement from the clavicle to the lower border of the great pectoral muscle is greater on the injured than on the sound side. The arm is usually found to be rotated in- wards. Numbness of the fingers, and partial paralysis of the muscles of the limb, from pressure or stretching of the nerves of the brachial flexus, is another symptom occasionally observed.] The elbow is more or less removed from the axis of the body by the action of the deltoid, the long head of the biceps and supra-spinatus muscle being also stretched, and tending to dravv the bone out- ward. The pain, which arises from this position, compels the patient to lean towards the dislo- cated hmb, to keep the fore-arm half bent, and the elbow supported on his hip, in such a way that the arm having a resting-place, may be sheltered from all painful motion, especially that of the elbow inwards. By this posture alone, Desault often re- cognised the accident. The head of the humerus may be felt in the axilla ; but " only when the elbow 18 considerably removed from the side." (Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations, p. 417.) This last circumstance is worthy of notice, as the inability to feel the head of the bone has led to mistakes. [On this point, M.Malgaigne maintains that the head of the bone can always be readily felt without raising the arm if the dislocation is directly down- wards, as in his sub-glenoid variety, or downwards and a little inwards, as in the sub-coracoid ; but that if it is still more inwards, as in the intra-coracoid, it becomes necessary to raise the arm from the side before the head can be distinguished. Sir A. Cooper's dislocation downwards, it should be re- membered, included all these three varieties, and as the intra-coracoid has been found by M. Mal- gaigne to be the most frequent of all. Sir A. Cooper's statement that it is necessary to raise the arm in order to feel the head of the bone is ac- counted for. M. Malgaigne states, that of 89 cases of dislocated shoulder seen by him, the head of the bone occupied the intra-coracoid position in more than two thirds. It is important to notice that when the disloca- tion happens from direct violence, this is the position which the head of the bone is most likely to assume, whereas, if it is caused indirectly, by a fall with the arm separated from the side, it usually passes more directly downwards into the axillary space. The "intra-coracoid" dislocation also is very frequently complicated with fracture of the great tuberosity. The blow or the fall operating upon the posterior and outer part of the shoulder, breaks off that process at the same time that it drives the head of the bone 'downwards and inwards, towards the axilla. When the tuberosity is broken off, it is prevented by its muscles from passing forwards with the head of the bone ; it therefore remains opposite to the glenoid cavity, which it partially fills, and so renders the sub-acromial depression less evident than in a dis- location unaccompanied by fracture. The not un- frequent association of dislocation with this fracture is of great practical importance, since when the complication is present, it tends to obscure one of the leading diagnostic marks of dislocation—the depression beneath the acromion; and unless the surgeon is well aware of it, it is, perhaps, more than any thing else, likely to lead him into error. iVIr. R. W. Smith has described the fracture of the greater tuberosity of the humerus, and states that numerous examples of this accident have fallen under his observation. He does not, however, ap- pear to consider the accompanying displacement of the head of the bone as constituting a dislocation, although in a shoulder joint which he had an op- portunity of dissecting some years after the occur- rence of the accident, he found thehead of the bono lying below the level of, ami internal to, the cnracoid process, exactly the position claimed by M. Mal- gaigne for his intra-coracoid dislocation. The great tuberosity occupied the glenoid c:ivity ; it was . united by ligament to the head of the bone, which it accompanied in its movements. The head had formed lor itself a new and shallow socket upon