3 L 3 although it was dependent an an abscess in the opposite cerebral hemisphere; they also prove that, when a piece of bone is exfoliating on one side of the cranium, the opposite cerebral hemisphere may be the seat of fatal inflammation, and, further, that such fatal inflammation resulting in abscess may occur, as it did in the first case, without any very appreciable symptoms. In the treatment of meningeal inflammation oc- curring during exfoliation of bone, we are not dis- posed to advise the free employment of bleeding eitiier by the arm or by leeches, as recommended by Pott in such cases. The disease so commonly attacks patients of a depraved state of consti- tution, in whom no violent depletory measures can be borne, and in whom the loss of many ounces of blood from the arm would irretrievably depress the vital powers beyond all hope of recovery. Never- theless, a mild anti-inflammatory treatment, as is implied in the careful administration of mercury and saline medicines, with cold applications to the head, is infinitely preferable to the indiscriminate use of stimulants, which it is too much the custom to administer in the present day. It is, however, very necessary to employ the greatest circuuispec- tion during the entire treatment of all cases of exfoliation of bone necrosed from injury, for the prognosis, after meningitis has set in, is in most cases exceedingly unfavourable.] Fractures. [Under the head of fractures will be included all solutions of continuity of the bones immediately resulting from external violence: thus m this classification are enumerated incised wounds ^of the skull, penetrating or punctured wounds, diastasis or separation of suture, simple fracture or fissure, indented fracture, depressed fracture, and fractures of the base. Many fractures of the skull, being complicated with wounds of the scalp leading to the fracture, are neces- sarily compound, according to the recognised sur- gical nomenclature ; whilst fractures of the base for the most part belong to the class of simple fractures. Fractures have been also arranged under the heads of direct fractures and fractures by cmlre-coup. But, whatever the nature of tlie fracture, its practical importance has a distinct relation to the state of the brain resulting directly or indirectly from the fracture. Hence it is cus- tomary in allusion to this subject to speak of a fracture of the skull with or without symptoms of concussion or compression; and in forming a pro- gnosis of such cases, or in laying down a plan of treatment, a knowledge of the condition of the brain, as indicated by certain symptoms, is of essential importance. Indued wounds of (Ite slcuU.—Injuries produced by cutting instruments, such as sabre-cuts, will be first considered, as they approach in chaiacter nearest to simple incised wounds in other parts. It must be at once apparent that no clean in- cision can he made through the cranium without the application of immense force. As the occur- rence of such accidents is comparatively rare in civil life, we may refer principally for tiicir description to writers on military surgery. Incised wounds of the skull may be arranged under the following heads: First, the simple section of the outer table, in which a mere superficial mark is left; HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. 885 secondly, the division of both tables by a perpen- dicular section; thirdly, an oblique or horizontal cut, where both tables are divided, but not com- pletely detaclied; and fourthly, the entire ablation of a piece comprising both tables, in which the bone adheres to the soft parts, or is completely removed with them. In the first two it should be borne in mind that the internal table of the skull may from the peculiarity of its structure be injured to a much greater extent than the external, and it is absolutely impossible from the mere inspection of the wound to ascertain the amount of injury the inner table has suffered; for, notwithstanding the apparent slightness of the incision, and even when there is no ocular evidence of the instrument having penetrated the cranial cavity, a piece of the vitreous table may be broken off, and may eventually become a cause of the most serious irrita- tion to the membranes of the brain. From the vaulted form of that part of the skull in which these accidents most frequently occur, it is almost impossible that any lengthened vertical section of both tables can bo made without a wound of the ■ dura mater, a complication of the greatest interest. The simple incision of the skull is readily ascer- tained by inspection, and if there are no signs of compression, or any other injury to the brain, the edges of the divided scalp should be accurately brought together; cold applications, as ice, should be employed, and a strictly antiphlogistic treat- ment be enjoined. If, however, decided symptoms of pressure on the brain exist, the surgeon is justi- fied in removing a piece of bone with the tre- phine, as it is possible that the inner table of the skull may have been fractured and detached, or one of the large arteries of the dura mater may have been lacerated. The position of the injury, and the gradual supervention of the symptoms, afford a clue to the nature of the case, as such an accident in the temporal region would suggest the possibility of a division of the spinous artery. When the instrument has penetrated both tables of the skull, the nature of the case is recognised at once by the visible pulsation of the brain through the fissure ; and, the blood gradually welling up, no pressure takes place from accumulation on the surface of the dura mater. If the dura mater is intact, and the blood which is effused escapes freely, the case must be treated as in more simple forms of injury; but if the dura mater is divided the danger is materially enhanced, as there is great risk of arachnitis with all its con- sequences. Nevertheless, in the absence of all signs of pressure on the brain, the trephine is un- necessary, as the operation may increase the danger. Cold lotions must be sedulously applied to the head; bleeding locally and genernllj-, with free drastic purging, comprise the category of remedies, to allay any cerebral mischief. The scalp should be carefully but lightly adjusted, and re- tained in position by sutures; an exit must be given to the blood, which otherwise is either pent up on the surface of the dura mater, or escapes into the arachnoid cavity, and thus gives rise to pressure on the brain. Although in wounds of the skull l)y sabre-cuts, or by any other means, there is some suspicion that the inner table of the skull is splintered, or a portion of it detached, if no symp- toms indicating pressure or meningeal irritation, as coma, convulsions, &c. are present, it is desirable to abstain from the introduction of the probe to