HEAD, INJU RIES OF THE. .933 brain from the impulsion of the arteries at the base, the natural limit to its expansion being lost by the removal of the bone. Mr. Abernethy explains the origin of hernife cerebri thus : " Their formation seems to proceed from an injury done to a part of the brain by con- cussion or contusion, which has terminated in a diseased state of the vessels similar to what occurs in apoplex}-. The morbid state increasing, one or more vessels give way, and an effusion of blood into the substance of the brain ensues, which, if the skull v/ere entire, would probably occasion apoplexy, but, where there is a deficiency of bone that allows it to expand, presses the surface of the brain and its membranes through the vacant space." And Mr. Stanley says with great justice, " There must be an increase in the vohime of the contained parts, produced either by a general distension of the blood-vessels of the brain, or by the addition of some new matter, as water or pus." It is, however, evident from numerous well-authenticated cases, that the disease does not depend merely on an over- distended state of the cerebral blood-vessels, such- as occurs in inflammation, for it makes its appear- ance generally after the subsidence of the inflam- matory symptoms, and frequently when everything is apparently progressing favourably. The mode of formation described by Abernethy is well illus- trated in those cases in which effused blood makes up the greater part of the tumor, which presents ex- ternally an appearance that a coagulum would do; but it will not apply to very many cases, which obviously depend on one of three causes, namely, a diseased condition of the brain itself, or the for- mation of abscess at the base of the tumor, by which the cranial contents are increased, or some special cause of irritation, as a foreign body lodged in the substance of the brain. In these latter cases the tumor is brainlike at the beginning, but speedily assumes the appearance of simple fungus. By over- stretching, the pia mater and arachnoid gradually yield, the tendency of the tumor being of course in that direction where there is least resistance; and masses of cineritious and medullary neurine, still maintaining their vitality and connection with the parts beneath, gradually ooze out until _ the tumor attains a considerable size. If the parietes of the skull were not deficient, the patient must necessarily succumb to the pressure arising from the effusion. That foreign bodies in the brain, as in other highly organised parts, may become the immediate cause of tlie disease in question, can admit of no dispute; indeed, I am inclined to class under this head effusions of blood into the cerebral tissue, and to explain the formation of hernia cerebri, when arising from this cause, as resulting as much from the irritation of the clot, as from the mecha- nical distension of the brain. Are we not justified also in arranging abscesses at the base of the tumor under the class of irritants of the brain? From the perusal of a few cases, a brief abstract of which is subjoined, it will be seen that the source of the disease existed in the greater number be- neath the root of the fungus, and that an altered state of the brain from suppuration or some other lesion, in manj-, must liave preceded its formation, whilst in others we cannot fail to recognise a co- agulum as its special cause; and, lastly, the exist- ence of foreign bodies in the substance of the brain, or near its surface, may without hesitation be pronounced the most remediable cause of the affection, as on their removal the tendency to fun- gate has immediately ceased. In the examination after death of the first case mentioned by Mr. Stanley, it is said, "The exposed surface of the brain from which the portion had been cut oft^ ex- hibited a softened and broken-down texture, a state of disorganisation which extended deep iiito its substance. Several small effusions of blood were met with both between the membranes and in the substance of the brain." In the second fatal case, it is remarked, " The greater part of the substance of the brain was mucli changed from its healthy condition, and especially in the right hemisphere {that is, on the side corre^ spomling to the fungus). All the medullary struc- ture intervening between the base of the protruded part and the anterior cornu of the right lateral ventricle had entirely lost its natural structure, and had become soft and pulpy, so as to convey the idea of rottenness." And in the dissection of the case quoted by the same author from Mr. Pearson, surgeon to the Lock Hospital, and which happened after the exfoliation of bone from caries consequent upon syphilis, it is said, "The tumor was evidently continuous with the anterior lobe of the right hemisphere of the brain. An abscess was found in the anterior lobe of the right hemisphere, con- taining between two and three ounces of pus.. The cavity extended from the anterior part of the cor- pus striatum to the base of the tumor. On divid- ing the diseased mass, it exhibited no distinct organisation, but was a pulpy substance of a grey colour, connected by shreds of the pia mater." In this case symptoms of pressure preceded the ap- pearance of hernia cerebri. In a dissection by Hennen, it is observed, " that the right hemisphere of the cerebrum was reduced to a sort of bloody pulp, rendering it impossible to trace its organisa- tion." In a case mentioned by Abernethy, " the hernia cerebri was evidently formed of congealed blood, deposited in the medullary part of the cerebrum; the containing cavity being about an inch in diameter, and its parietes appearing to be the sub- stance of the brain condensed by pressiue. The ventricles were full of bloody serum." Mr. Hill (see Cases in Surgery, p. 09) details a very inte- resting illustration of hernia cerebri as the result of abscess; the case eventually recovered, but Hill says, " To prevent a repetition of bad symptoms, I was obliged to shave away the tumor, and to push a lancet into its root, as often as the stupor and other symptoms showed that matter was lodged there, by which he was uniformly relieved." A similar instance is recorded by Scidtetus {Armament. Clururg. obs. 19). In the London Medical Journal, vol. x. p. 277 two cases are mentioned in which repeated at- tempts were made to prevent the growth of the tumor by pressure: one died at the end of u month, and the other after six months. " In both there was found a large cavity, wliich Iiad been formed by the accumulation of a fluid that could not escape on account of the aperture being closed up by the fungus." In the London Medical and Surgical Journal for 1!)3I a case is related by Dr. Tuthill of a man who had hernia cerebri succeeding a depressed compound fracture of the lei't parietal bone. Tlie trephine was applied, and splinters of bone were 3 0 3