Ill the true congenital luxation, however, says Mr. R. W. Smith, who was the first to investigate the subject, there is superadded to the atropliy of the muscles a malformation of tho bones composing the shoulder joint. Mr. Smith has described four cases of dislocation forwards, sub-coracoid, and two of dislocation backwards, sub-acromial, which he be- lieves to be truly congenital. In one of the former, in which the disease affected both limbs, he had the opportunity of dissecting the shoulder joints. The subject was a lunatic female, who died at the age of 29. On the left side there existed scarcely any trace of an articular surface, in the situation whicli the glenoid cavity occupied in the normal state ; but there had been formed upon the costal sur- face of the scapula, a socket of a glenoid shape, around which the glenoid ligament, perfect in every respect, was continued from the margin of that small portion of the natural articular surface, which existed upon the axillary margin of the bone. On the right side the appearances were similar, but not so strongly marked. The muscles of the shoul- der and arm were atrophied. Of the other three patients with congenital dislocation forwards, ex- amined by him, two were 20 years of age, the third was a boy tet. 9. The deformity was in each similar in character to that described above, and the affec- tion had existed from birth, or from the earliest period of the patient's recollection. Mr. Smith also dissected the shoulder joints of a female lunatic, tet. 42, the subject of symmetrical sub-acromial dislocation. There was no trace of a glenoid cavity on either side, in the natural situ- ation, but upon the external surface of the neck of the scapula there was a well formed socket, which received the head of the humerus. This was covered with cartilage, and surrounded by a perfect glenoid ligament. Mr. Smith thinks the complete absence of a glenoid cavity in the natural situation, the existence of the deformity on each side, the perfect resemblance between the abnormal sockets in form, size, and position, the integrity of the tendon of the biceps, and of the capsular and glenoid ligaments, all support the opinion that the dislocation must have existed at birth. Mr. Smith has since met with another example of congenital dislocation of both shoulders backwards, in a man who died at tile age of 60 years. The shoulder joints were ex- hibited at the Dublin Patiiological Socict}-, April 3, 1853. In the present state of our knowledge, and in the absence of a more extended series of observations, it is, as Chelius has remarked, impossible to deter- mine with certainty whether the cause of the luxation should always be sought for in an original deficient formation of tlie articular surfaces, or whether such dislocations may not be produced by the peculiar position of the foetus in the womb, tlic particular changes subsequently found depending on the long continuance of tho displacement. (See /{. W. Smith, On Fractures and Dislocations, p. 256. Dublin, 1G47.) In such cases as those described by Mr. Smith, where there is no glenoid cavity in the natural situation,all attempts to remedy the dcforjiiity may of course bo expected to prove unavailing. A very remarkable case, liowever, lias been recorded by M, Oaillard, where a dislocation backwards, be- lieved to be congenital, was reduced at the age of IG. Horizontal extension was made on four occa- sions, in a space of eight days, and on tho fourtli DISLOCATION. 533 trial the dislocation was reduced. The bone, how- ever, slipped out of place almost immediately ; it was replaced on the following day, and maintained in position for an hour. Ten days later it was awain reduced, and this time the reduction was per- manent. Two years afterwards, the limb, wliich be- fore the operation was wasted and stunted in its growth, had increased considerably in length, and enjoyed free motion in all directions, and it was hoped that ultimately its use would be comple^tely restored. {Man. de I'Acad, de Med. 1841, p. 703, and Makjaigne,^. 569.)] Dislocations of the Elbow. Notwithstanding the extent of the articular sur- faces of the humerus and ulna, the strength of the muscles and ligaments surrounding the joint, and the mutual reception of the bony eminences, ren- dering the articulation a perfect angular gingly- mus, a dislocation of both the radius and ulna from the humerus sometimes happens. The ulna is most frequently luxated backwards ; sometimes laterally, and very rarely forward. The luxation backwards is facilitated by the small size of the coronoid process, which, wlien the Iiumerus is forcibly pushed downwards and forwards, may slip behind it, and ascend as high as the cavity, which receives the olecranon in the extended state of the fore-arm. [Dislocations of the elbow are very common in children ; they are, in fact, more frequently seen in children than in adults, and in this respect form a striking contrast with dislocations of the shoulder, which ai'e almost entirely confined to adult age, and are very rare in children.] Sir Astley Cooper's experience made him ac- quainted with five different luxations of the elbow: — 1. That of the radius and ulna backwards. 2. That of both these bones laterally. 3. That of the ulna alone. 4. That of the radius alone for- wards. 5. That of the radius backwards. {On Dislocations, p, 467.) [Subsequent experience has shown that Sir A. Cooper's classification does not comprise all the dislocations of this joint; but that others are occa- sionally observed ; and these, although of rare occurrence, will nevertheless call for a separate consideration. It becomes necessary to speak therefore of 1. Dislocation of both bones backwards. 2. Dislocation of both bones laterally. 3. Dislocation of both bones forwards. 4. Dislocation of the ulna backwards and the radius forwards. 5. Dislocation of tho ulna backwards alone. G. Dislocation of the radius forwards. 7. Dislocation of tho radius backwards. ' 0. Dislocation of the radius outwards.] 1. Dislocation of both hones of the fore-arm hack- tvards.—This is by far the most frequent of all the dislocations of the elbow joint. It maj' be com- plete or incomplete. In the complete dislocation, as described by Sir A. Cooper, both the radius and ulna may ascend more or less behind the humerus • but the coronoid process of thn ulna is carried above the articular pulley, and is placed opposite to the cavity destined to receive tho olecranon. The head of the radius is placed behind and above tlic external condyle of the humerus. The annular ligament, which confines the superior extremity of M M 3