464 CICATRIX, collection of blood from taking place. About the third day the puncture is healed, and the deform ing pitting of skin completely removed. In some cases, cicatrices which attach the skin of tlie face to the bones beneath may be divided without touching the skin, by making separation from the mouth. In either case, if the skin has been firmly attached to the bones to any great extent, it will be necessary, after separating it, and carefully pressing out any effused blood, to apply strips of plaster upon the skin, and draw it by them in such a direction that the apposition of the two wounded surfaces is prevented. If this be not carefully done, the parts might return readily to their former condition. Similar cicatrix pittings about the lower jaw form after the healing of dental fistulaj; or on the inner or outer border of the sterno-mastoid, the upper part of the sternum, or the anterior part of the clavicle, after abscesses about the neck. Scrofulous abscesses in early childhood often cause such deformities. They are treated most success- fully by subcutaneous division, as above described, provided the skin itself be healthy. If unhealthy, one of the other methods, to be described imme- diately, must be adopted. More care, to avoid im- portant vessels and nerves, is, of course necessary, than when operating about the face. Subcutaneous division is also often required to relieve the contraction produced by cicatrices about the hands and fingers. The condition de- scribed by Dupuytren, in which the skin is at- tached to a flexor tendon and shrunk up into a fold, is readily relieved by separating the attach- ment between skin and tendon. It is necessary to be very careful not to wound the tendon, and to adopt some means of extension afterwards by splints, or plaster of Paris bandages, or some orthopcedic apparatus, until the finger is quite straight. In many operations where muscles and tendons are divided to improve the condition of joints, or in cases of forced extension or forcible rupture of ankylosis, subcutaneous division of cicatrices becomes an important auxiliary, especially in cases where the skin has become adherent from previous abscesses or fistulse. If the shortened tendons and muscles, and the thickened contracted fascise be alone divided, in such cases the skin gives way when the joint is forcibly stretched, and there is danger both to limb and life—a danger easily avoided by dividing the cicatrices, either before dividing the tendons, or when the cicatrices be- come tense and cord-like on stretching after the tendons have given waj. Subcutaneous division is also occasionally useful when the skin is attached to the broken end of a bone, having been drawn inwards in consequence of compound fracture. _ II. Division from Witliout Inivards may be either—(a) simple transverse division; (i) re- peated transverse division, or noiching; (c) oblique division ; and (c/) division with loosening of sur- rounding shin. _ (ce.) The simple transverse division of small cicatrices is most commonly necessary about the neck, or the flexor aspect of the limbs, when, on extending the part, the existing cicatrix is much stretched, projecting as a sharpisli ridge. The rpsult of the operation is only satisfactory when the cellular tissue beneath the cicatrix is tolerably soft and extensible, and the cicatrix not amalea- mated with deeper parts. The operation is performed in the followini? manner :-The cicatrix is put as much as possible on the stretch, the edge of the knife applied upon Its most projecting part, and the cicatrix is com- pletely cut across. As extension is kept up the edges of the wound separate from each other,'and the transverse wound becomes a long one. It is dressed simpl)r, and the new position maintained by bandages and splints, or by a stiff cravat. (5.) The repeated transverse division, or notching IS required when a narrow hard cicatrix is closely united with subjacent parts. It is done precisely like the simple division, except that it is at several spots instead of one. The deep-seated thickened cellular tissue must be also divided, and after-ex- tension kept up. (c.) Oblique division, as Diefifenbach has pointed out, is especially indicated in cicatrices after laroe wounds of the fingers or inside of the hand. A long cicatrix draws a finger crooked like a bow, and on attempting to straighten it the cicatrix projects like a bow-string, with a hard wall between it and the bow. Notching here would lead to acute in- flammation, new cicatrices, and more intimate ad- hesion to the tendon. Simple division would be useless, while oblique division is very successful. The finger is stretched as much as possible by an assistant, and the surgeon passes a long narrow knife through the sound skin, a few lines from one end of the cicatrix on one side of it—the left, for example. The knife is then gradually passed through the whole length of the cicatrix, to its other end, until the incision ends • in the sound skin beyond the cicatrix on the right side. On powerfully stretching the finger the two wounded edges are seen to glide laterally, so that the wound appears longer than the incision. If the cicatrix be very hard, it is necessary to make small notches along both edges. The finger is gradually extended by binding it on to a splint, and the lost mobility of the joint must afterwards be restored by fre- quently flexing and extending it. ((/.) Any of these modes of dividing cicatrices may be accompanied by loosening of the surround- ing skin, in order to allow of the edges of the wound being brought together without stretching. III. Extirpation of cicatrices may be neces- sary, either to remove deformity or on account of a morbid condition of the cicatrix itself. We may be called upon to excise disfiguring cicatrices about the face and neck, which have re- mained after the healing of scrofulous abscesses, large boils, diseased bone, specific or cancroid ulcers, wounds and surgical operations, where ui.ion by first intention has not taken place, tmd. to complete certain plastic operations. The operation may be either (n) siwyj/e, or (i) repeated, and in either case accompanied by loosening of the cicatrix and surrounding integument, to admit of gliding. (a) Simple extirpation is effected by two ellip- tical incisions surrounding the cicatrix, wliich is then raised and removed by ordinary dissection; or it may be raised in some situations with hooked fiorceps, and cut away by a stroke of the kruTe or scissors. The cicatrix should be removed entirely, so that tlie edges of the wound to be brouglit together are in sound skin. These are to be care- fully united by small pins and the twisted sutures. If they do not come together easilj', the skin