HERNIA. 961 nausea and sickness, cold sweats, and fainting, under which circumstances the parts often recede spontaneously, or may be easily reduced. Sir A. Cooper prudently advises injecting half the above quantity at first; for he has seen two drachms, and even one, when used as an infusion, and in- troduced at once, prove fatal (p. 24). The rest should be injected when it appears that the to- bacco does not operate with the extraordinary vio- lence with which it does in a few particular con- stitutions. A case published by Sir C. Bell looks to me very much like an example of the occasional poi- sonous etFects of the tobacco. At least, no par- ticulars of any fatal mischief, either in the tumor or abdomen, are detailed; and it is remarked of the patient, " His strength held up until the to- bacco clyster was administered to him, after which he very suildenly fell low and sank." {Surgical Ohs. part ii. p. 189.) The smoke proved fatal in an instance witnessed by Desault (CEiwresde Chir. t. ii. p. 344); and an infusion of 3ij. to Jviij. of water seemed to produce suddenly mortal eifects in another example on record. {Edi?ib. Med. and Surgical Jowrn. vol ix. p. 169.) [The tobacco enema is almost discarded in the present day, the introduction of chloroform having superseded every other means of depriving the pa- tient of muscular efiFort.] When the patient is old or considerably debili- tated, the tobacco clyster should not be employed; for if it fail the constitution will not afterwards be in a state to bear the operation. I have known it succeed, however, in an aged person. A woman, above sixty years old, was brought to Univer- sity College Hospital with a strangulated femoral hernia. The taxis and other means not having answered, I recommended the operation; but she obstinately refused to submit to it. As a last ex- pedient, I directed the tobacco clyster to be era- ployed, and in half an hour the hernia returned almost of itself. In another case admitted into the same hospital, encouraged by the foregoing one, I tried the tobacco clyster for the relief of a strangu- lated femoral hernia in an aged female, but, as the parts could not be reduced, I performed the ope- ration; the sickness ceased; stools soon followed; and the pain and fever entirely subsided. But the ■weakness was such that nature made little or no effort to heal the wound; the hernial sac sloughed, and the case ended fatally on the sixth or seventh day. This example, I should say, was against the employment of tobacco clysters in old persons. FouUices and Fomentations have not the con- fidence of any experienced or intelligent sur- geon. Whoever, in these urgent cases, wastes time in trying the effects of such applications, merits censure for his credulity, ignorance, and unfitness to undertake the treatment of a rapid dis- ease, in which, as Pott remarks, if we do not get forward, we generally go backward; and whatever does no good, if it be at all depended upon, cer- tainly does harm, by occasioning an irretrievable loss of time. Ok the Order in which the preceding Me- thods SHOULD I3B tried, AND OF THE TiMK WHEN THE Operation should bb no longer DELAYED. In the treatment of a strangulated hernia, a surgeon cannot be too deeply impressed with the danger of spending time in the trial of methods of inferior efficacy, or of such as are evinced to be ineffectual in the cases before them. The ra- pidity with which gangrenous mischief sometimes arises, and the patient loses his life, has been proved in a multitude of unfortunate examples, and should act as a warning to all practitioners against the danger of deferring the operation too long. In the course of my reading, however, I have not met with so remarkable an instance of the sudden mortification and rapidly fatal termi- nation of a hernia as the following case, recorded by Baron Larrey in speaking of the fatiguing and forced marches performed by the French soldiers in Egypt. These marches, he says, brought on in one case, " a hernia which formed suddenly, and became at the same time strangulated. The man was immediately brought to my ambulance; but a spontaneous gangrene, which had all on a sudden attacked the intestine, and extended to the other abdominal viscera, caused the patient's death in the space of two hours, and made it impossible for me to do the operation for him. This is the second example that I have been acquainted with in which the effects were thus rapid," {Mem, de Chir. Mililaire, t. i. p. 196.) The taxis is generally among the first things to be tried; and Sir A. Cooper recommends the at- tempts to be continued for a quarter or half an hour. When these have been ineffectual, the patient, if the circumstances do not forbid, should be immediately bled, and a large opening made in tlie vein, so that the suddenness of the evacuation may be most likely to bring on fainting. The taxis should then be tried again. When the strangulation is very acute, and the patient young and strong, perhaps it may be most advisable to follow the advice delivered by Scarpa and Desault, which is, to bleed the patient, and put him in the warm bath, before the taxis is attempted at all. If bleeding alone has been practised, and the manual efforts at reduction should not now suc- ceed, the warm .bath may be employed, provided it can be got ready in a very short time, but none should ever be lost in waiting for it to be pre- pared. When the bath is used the taxis may be attempted as the patient lies in the water, a situation in which I have succeeded in reducing several hernise. Certainly not more than one hour should ever be allotted for putting in practice the first attempts at reduction, bleeding, and the warm bath. The plan should be, while the trial of one thing is going on,another should be preparing; so that, when the preceding measures have been tried in vain, the application of a bladder filled with ice or the solution of nitre and muriate of ammonia, and, if the jintient be not aged nor of too debilitated a constitution, the injection of tobacco, in the form of smoke or decoction, should never be delayed for want of due previous preparation of all the requi- sites. Both these measures should be practised at the same time, immediately after the failure of the taxis, bleeding, and the warm bath. Sir Astley Cooper computes that four hours are enough for the trial of the tobacco clyster, together with cold applications. In omental hernia), the necessity for operating may frequently be obviated by the good effects of bleeding, purgative medicines, and clysters, and 3 P 4