CARIES. 411 lamumlion is set up in a bone, through some ac- cidental local cause. 2. Syphi/Hic. When a dis- position to a specific periosteal inflamniution is produced by lues. 3. Stnmioiis. AVlien the scro- fulous diathesis gives oiiy;in to caries. 4. Malig- nant. When the bones are absorbed in the spread of malignant ulcers. (See Outlines of Human Pa- tholoffjj, p. 36.) [To these must be added scurvy as a not un- common cause, and the abuse of mercury in the treatment of disease in scrofulous constitutions as a verj" common one.] But many circumstances, in relation to the varieties of caries, yet lie in obscurity. If, as a modern writer remarks, the situation of the bones, the nature of their organisation, and the slowness of their diseases, would let an attentive observer trace the formation, development, and progress of caries, no doubt there would be noticed a diver- sity in its symptoms, corresponding to its different species ; and, probably, it would be found, that a venereal or scrofulous caries would vary in its ori- gin and progress, as much from a caries arising from a purely local cause, as a venereal or scrofu- lous ulcer differs from the kind of ulceration that follows a common abscess. (Diet, des Sciences Med. t. iv. p. 84.) The tcorm-euten caries, as it has been termed, which penetrates the whole sub- stance of a bone, and gives it an appearance as if it had been bored in hundreds of places, is a very different affection from some other forms of the disease, whether superficial, or extending to the deeper texture of the bone. Around the carious part there is always a de- posit of new osseous matter, in the form of tuber- cles, extending to a considerable distance, and greatly increasing the thickness of the bone. The new bone, on superficial inspection, appears rough and porous, the pores being for the transmission of blood-vessels. According to Mr. Mayo, syphilitic caries begins •with inflammation of the periosteum, and " does not lead to much enlargement of the bone. The bones commonly attacked are those, which, lying near the surface, are obnoxious to cold: the tibia, for instance, the ulna, the clavicle, the cranial bones. The swelling, by which syphilitic caries first manifests itself, is called a node. It is an inflammation, either confined to the periosteum, or involving at most the cortex of the bone. The periosteum becomes thickened, and is exquisitely painful. If the integuments are divided down to the bone at this period, a thick, viscid, glary matter, like honey, is often found in the cells of the periosteum, &c. The surfiice of the bono now gradually enlarges, or is thrown up in particles of porous bone, either furrowed by longitudinal grooves, or spongy and sieve-like, riddled with innumerable minute holes." The outer table of the skull in venereal caries, generally has the ap- pearance of being worm eaten. Mr. Mayo adds, that, while the caries is making progress, the in- teguments inflame ; and matter forms below the skin, which afterwards ulcerates. The skin before breaking has a livid colour; and afterwards the skin around the ulcer has the same hue. The edges of the sore are commonly a little raised; its outline uneven, and the granulations irregular, and covered by a viscid a.sh-colnured secretion. A probe readily passes throiigli the soft and gritty texture of the caries. The co-existcnco of ulcer- ated fauces and squamous eniptlon, or other dis- ease of the skin, generally leaves no doubt of the nature of the caries. Sometimes, however, the latter exists alone. (See Mayo's Outline of Human Pallioloijy, p. 40.) Mr, Mayo is unacquainted with any essential diilbrence in the appearance of carious bones in some forms of scrofula, and in the parallel cases de- pendent upon lues. " Less pain, less periosteal in- flammation, and a smaller extent of surface attack- ed, the absence of other symptoms, and the general physical appearance of the patient (he adds), afford a strong presumption of the scrofulous origin of the disease." (Op. cit. p. 41.) The instances of malignant caries, adduced by Mr. Mayo, are those from lupus and cancer, (p. 48.) Mr. Syme regards the distinction of caries into the dry, moist, worm-eaten, &c. only as the result of the confusion of caries with other morbid states of the osseous tissue. The dry is in reality necrosis, as already noticed. A carious bone, after macer- ation, according to Mr. Syme, looks as if it had been burned ; being harder, whiter, and more brittle than usual, and always attended with more or less excavation, so as to expose the cellular structure. It resembles a piece of loaf sugar, that has been partially dissolved by momentary immer- sion in hot Mater. (See Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. xxxi. p, Ibl, and Syme's Hinciples of Surgery, p. 171, ed. 2, 8vo. Edinb. 1837.) Caries from scrofula, the most frequent case, is more difficult of cure than that from syphilis and scurvy ; for some efficacious remedies against the latter diseases are known, but scrofula cannot be said to be much within the reach of medicine. The prognosis is less favom-able in old than-young sub- jects ; and much depends on the extent of the dis- ease, the patient's strength, and the state of the soft parts. When caries arises from constitutional disease, mternal remedies are of course indicated. Thus iodide of potassium, sarsaparilla, tonics, and su- dorific medicines have a tendency to cure (per- haps even more frequently than mercury) caries from syphilis ; while vegetable diet and acids cure both scurvy and the caries dependent on it. According to writers, the indications in the treatment of caries are, either to produce a change in the action of the diseased portion of bone whereby it may regain a healthy state, or to do' stroy it altogether. In the caries from constitutional causes, the first object seems to be brought abimt by the operation of such remedies as remove the original disease ; and, I should much doubt whether in these cases, any very active local treatment ia necessary, or free from objection. Of course this remark is meant to apply only to examples in which we possess some medicine or plan which is known to be a tolerable sure remedy for the gene- ral disease. This is not the case "in caries from scrofula, and here issues, blisters, friction, with other local moans are unquestionably advantageous. (See.ToiNTS, and VEnTKUR«.) But Burueons have proceeded further; and not content with issues, blisters, fomcntation.s, &c. as means for quicken- ing the action of the diseased bone, they have commonly rccnmmcnded applying directly to it the strongest stimulant.?, as the tincture of aloes or myrrh, a solutiou of the nitrate of silver, the