over, aiia;inia is generally complicated with otlier morbid states of the blood, the continued emptiness ot the vessels being I'uvourable to the absorption of nnassimilable materials and the defective nutrition of the organs unfavourable to secretion and depu- ration ; hence blood, in its constitution essentially anseraie, become? diluted with water, and the blood- vessels may be as full or even fuller than natural, producing a distinct train of symptoms. (Vide Hydrhcemia; Spurious Anmmia.) Aniemic blood is also extremely liable to be poisoned by foreign matters introduced from without, or by retained secretions and excretions. Local Ancemia. — BeMency of the supply of blood to a part maybe produced by various causes diminishing the calibre or obliterating the artery by which the supply should be maintained. Tu- mors of various kinds, the spontaneous coagulation of the blood in an artery, disease of the coats of an artery leading to the deposition of fibrine, the obstruction of an artery by fibrinous flakes trans- ported from a distance, as from the valves of the heart, are so many mechanical causes. It may also be produced by an excessive determination of the current of blood to other parts. This local anaemia may be totally independent of the quan- tity of blood in the system, or its quality. The quality of the blood in the ana;mic part is not so much changed and especially the proportion of corpuscles is but little diminished. The effects on the part are, however, very similar to those pro- duced by general anaemia, except that they are often carried much further. This partial ana;mia however produced, may disturb or completely ar- rest the function of the part, producing loss of motion and sensation, coldness, and ultimately atrophy and disorganisation. Obstruction of the coronary arteries produces debility and atrophy of the heart itself. Disease of the cerebral arteries or ligature of their trunks, or obstruction by fibri- nous clots (Dr. Kirkes, Med.-Cliir. Transac. vol. XXXV. p. 281), occasioning an interruption to the flow of_bIood, produce disturbance of the cerebral functions, softening of the brain, and even gan- grene, with convulsions, spasms, paralysis, and all the usual symptoms and sequelae of such disturb- ance. Arrest of the flow of blood to a secreting organ produces analogous results, with a diminu- tion of the proper secretion and the ultimate poi- soning of the blood with the effete matter that ought to have been eliminated. The complete obliteration of the main artery of a limb, if the blood 13 not supplied in time by the collateral cir- culation, results in gangrene. The effects of local anaemia differ greatly according to its degree, and as the arrest may have been sudden or slow and insidious. Analogous, although not quite iden- tical effects, result from the spurious ana;mia of a part, the blood being defective in some of the principles essential to nutrition, although the ab- solute quantity supplied may not have been di- minished. Trealmenl.—When blood is suddenly extrava- )ated in large quantity, so as to compromise life •apidly, the first duty of the surgeon is to place ;he patient in the best position for the maintenance If the arterial circulation and the respiration tak- ng care that the bleeding vessel or organ'is so iirected that the flow of blood may be opposed by Tavity. If the bleeding continues, we then pro- eed to arrest it by such surgical measures as the AN/ESTIIEStA. 129 nature of the case may dictate. If tlie flow has been so great as to pniduco enduring syncope or apparent death, transfusion is the remedy. When blood is lost slowly or in repeated small quantities, various surgical appliances and internal remedies are resorted to. ( Vide Arleries, ligature of— compressio?i of— cauterisation of~hemorrhage tt'ansfusion.) When true anaemia, less urgently compromising life, complicates surgical diseases, the treatment must depend on the particular disease, but the anajmic condition must never be lost sight of. The remedies are hygienic and medicinal. The first, consisting in the strictest attention to a good system of diet, and the free respiration of a pure air, with a judicious employment of exercise where not forbidden by local disease, and due regard to sleeping and watching, cheerfulness of mind, and the avoidance of excesses of all kinds. As in all instances of direct debility the greatest care should be taken that the vital power is not taxed excessively and thereby exhausted, either in demands made on particular functions of life, or upon the general nervous and muscular systems. Hence the quan- tity and the quality of the food must be adjusted to the digestive powers of the individual and the special demands of the system. For the recovery of the nutrition of the adipose tissues the food must contain a due quantity of the oily element, and in hke manner a sufficient proportion of the albuminous or protein principles is necessary to form a perfect pabulum for the nutrition of the muscular and vascular systems. The medical treatment consists in tonics, chalybeates, restora- tives and stimulants. The selection of medicines of these classes must depend on the particular case, and be left to the judgment of the prac- titioner. In some instances the anamia appears to depend on the deficiency of a particular element in the blood, as of iron, the administration of which constitutes the first and most essential part of the treatment. Care is necessary in the use of this medicine. If given in too large a quantity, abso- utely or relatively, as respects the other consti- tuents of the blood or the elements of the food or It given unnecessarily, it may act as a foreign ma- terial received into the blood, and if unassimilatea by tfie vital fluid may produce congestion or irri- tation in the brain, lungs, and other organs, with their ordinary symptoms, as headache, pleuritic pains, or hurried respiration. Where anffimic blood appears from the state of the adipose tissues to have fiiiled in their nutrition especially cod liver oil 18 useful and may frequently be eiven ad vantageously at the same time as iron. Where thp primary digestion is at fault, bitters, and chaly- beates, and m depression of the nervous powers valerian, assnfcetida, musk, and repeated Tudi' ciously regulated doses of o^ium, and^otl er reme dies of that class, may be useful. Where aiSa has been produced suddenly bv In«r„f v.f i diffusible stimulants, of IhlSi tii e? e I er a°nd' opium are , often absolutely necessary and m the more chronic cases the e n T*^" J-,","'' '"'y adjuvants {l or the Bjbliog. vide Blood, Pathology of.) TToSf ^rr!^'^^^ SURGICAl' OpSa- I lUlNb. I The term anajsthesia, from a, privative and ai<rOa,o^,at, " I feel," has long been used bv medical authors to denote tlio loss of common sen- K