ANEURISM. 224 first volume of the Commentaries of the Academy of Bologna, by Albertini, one of liis fellow-stu- dents ; and several persons, who had learned this method of Valsalva, afterwards imparted it to others. Thus, as Morgagni was passing through Bologna, in 1728, Stancazi is said to have in- formed him of Valsalva's practice. (See Kreysig, Ueber die HerzkrmiMeiten, b. ii. p. 720.) After taking away a good deal of blood by venesection, Valsalva used next to diminish the quantity of food graduall}^ till the patient at length was allowed only half a pint of soup in the morning and a quarter of a pint in the evening, and a very small quantity of water, medicated with mucilage of quinces or with the lapis osteo- colla. When the patient had been so reduced as to be incapable of getting out of his bed, Valsalva used to give him more nourishment, till this ex- treme debility was removed. Valsalva was sure that some aneurisms thus treated had got well, because every symptom disappeared ; and his con- viction was verified by an opportunity which he had of dissecting the body of a person that had been cured of this disease, and afterwards died of another affection ; for the artery which had been dilated was found contracted and in some degree callous. Morgagni states that this method of treating aneurisms is somewhat like the plan which Ber- nard Gengha tried with success, as well as Lancisi; and he refers us to the 24th chapter of the 2nd vol. of the Anatomy of the one, and to lib. ii. cap. 4 of the Treatise on the Heart and Aneurisms of the other. But Sabatier tells us that, in consequence of this instruction, he examined both these works, without' finding anything on the subject. How- ever this may be, we are infomed by the latter, that he noticed the good eft'ects of the practice in an officer, who had an alarming aneurism in front of the humeral extremity of the clavicle, in conse- quence of a sword-wound in the axilla. The pa- tient, after having been bled several times, was confined to his bed, and kept to an extremely low diet. He was allowed as drink only a very acid kind of lemonade. He took pills containing alum, and the swelling was covered with a bag full of powder of oak bark, which was every now and then well wet with port wine. By perseverance in this treatment, the swelling was reduced to a smallish hard tubercle, having no pulsation, and a perfect cure ensued. (See Sabatier, Medecine Operatoire, torn. iii. p. 170—172.) . Guerin recommended the application of ice- water, or pounded ice, to aneurismal swellings; a plan which he represents as being often of itself sufficient to effect a cure. This topical employment of cold applications may be rationally and conve- niently adopted in conjunction with Valsalva's practice. The most interesting facts in proof of the efficacy of this mode of treatment were published some years ago by Pelletaii. The following extract from a well-written critique on Pelletan's Cli- nique Chirurgicalc," will serve to convey to the reader some idea of the importiint information con- tained in the memoir on internal aneurisms: — "The intent in the treatment is to reduce the pa- tient gradually to as extreme a degree of weakness as is possible without immediately endangering life. It is done by absolute rest, a rigorous diet, and" bleeding : to these moans, M. Pelletan adds the external application of ice, or cold and astrin- gent washes, &c. He has here detailed many cases, from his own practice, of partial or com- plete success, which cannot be too generally known, as they may be the means of creating in some, and of confirming in others, a good opinion of the only method of treatment which has been found at all efficacious in a dreadful, and not an unfrequent, organic disease. " Of the cases here recorded, some appear to have been cured ; in others, the treatment had marked good effects. In extreme cases, at best, it afforded but partial and temporary relief. In one case, that of a robust man, an aneurism at the root of the aorta, with a pulsating tumor of the size of an egg, projecting between the ribs (the edges of which wel-e already partly absorbed), was reduced, so as to recede within the ribs in the course of eight days. At the end of this time, the patient refused to submit any longer. The tumor did not appear again for nearly a year, although he returned to very drunken and irregular habits. He died in about two years and a half, with the tumor again appearing, and much increased in volume. The aneurismal sac communicated with the aorta, by a smooth and round opening opposite to one of the sigmoid valves. There can be no doubt of tlie efhcacy of the treatment in this case; and it is highly probable, that his health and his life might have been long preserved but for his own indis- cretion. In a case somewhat similar, but not so far advanced, the patient appears to have been cured. There was a swelling on the right side of the breast, about six inches in circumference, with a very strong beating. The pulsation was accom- panied with a pain, which stretched towards the scapula and the occiput. It was evident that the disease was an aneurism of the arch of the aorta. The patient was a crier, of a strong frame, who was accustomed to drink freely. In the four first days, he was bled eight times, drawing three basins, ' palettes,' in the morning, and two m the evening. On the fifth, the pains and the beating were much lessened, but the pulse was still full. He was again bled once. The pulse was in a fa- vourable state as to strength till the seventh day, when it again rose, and the man was twice bled. "Durino- this time, the man was kept to a most rigorous diet. A cold poultice of linseed and vinegar was placed on the tumor, and renewed when it became warm. At the end of eight days, the good effects of this plan were very evident; the pain and the pulsation were gone. The pa- tient, though weak, was in health, and tranquil. He was now allo\Tcd more food by degrees. At the end of four weeks from the commencement ot the treatment he left the Htitel Dieu well. Ho afterwards led a sober life, and became fritter, without any vestige of disease, except a slight and deep pulsation at the part in which the aorta may always be felt beating in its natural state. He died two or three years afterwards of another complaint. His death was not known, and the body was not ex- amined." (QicLondon Mcd.Rcvicw, vol. v. p. 1-^.; Pelletan also cured by similar treatment a large axillary aneurism, which was deemed beyond the reach of operativ'e surgery. On the tliirteenth day, the U""' ^vas reduced to a degree of wiikn-ss which alarmed "-'7 o^''-.^^^" From that time, all pulsation m the tumor ceased. The contents were gradually absorbed ;