CATARACT, with the extremity of the finger, the wrong position which the eye is about to take is immediately pre- vented. Mr. Alexander, whose'great skill in operations on the e3'e is universally acknowledged, employs no assistant for raising the upper eyelid, or fiximr the eye, which objects he accomplishes himself" and, in Germany, this independent mode of pro- ceeding has been particularly commended by Earth. (Eluas iiher die Auszicliung das grcaien Staarcs,Jur den ffciibleii Operate III: 8vo. VVien, 1797.) Mr. Alexander, however, mostly divides the upper seg- ment of the cornea. ° Of Couching, or Dephession op the Cata- ract, AND RecLINATION, The operation of couching was once supposed to consist altogether in removing the opaque lens out of the axis of vision, by means of a needle constructed for the purpose ; but it is well known to be frequently effectual on another principle, even when the nature and consistence of the cataract do not admit of the depression of the opaque body. Experience fully proves that the diseased lens when broken and disturbed with the needle, and especially when freely exposed to the contact of the aqueous humour by a proper laceration of its capsule, is gradually dissolved and removed by the action of the absorbents. Indeed, couching now means a variety of ope- rations ; for it comprehends not merely the de- jwssion of the cataract, not simply its displace- ment in any direction whatsoever, not only the hrcaking of it piecemeal; but likewise the mere dis- turbance of the ojxiqtte body, whereby its absorption is sometimes effected without any kind of depres- sion or displacement of it at all with the needle. When, therefore, the merits of couching are inves- tigated, it is necessary to define precisely what modification of it is meant, and for what particular kind of case its application is designed ; for, no surgeon of the present day would confine himself exclusively to one method of operating ; and as Mr. Guthrie has remarked, " In considering the advantages or disadvantages from any or all of the different operations for cataract, it is abso- lutely necessary to recollect, that no individual operation is applicable to every species of the disease; tliat each kind requires an operation for its relief or cure, sometimes of a particular nature, and differing essentially from that which is found most advantageous in another. To collect, then, all the objections which can be urged against any of the operations, from a consideration of every case of cataract to which it is and is not applicable, is merely to confuse the subject, and has generally been done for the purpose of recommending some particular mode of proceeding, rather than to regu- late these operations by the general principles of surgery." {Operative Sim/ery of the Eye, p, 3S5.) Mr. Travers remarks, that the real objection to couching is the breaking up of the fine texture of the globe of the eye, by the forcible depression of tlie lens. " Whether it be depressed edgeways or breadthways, makes no difference in the result; It must still occupy a breach in the cells of the vitreous humour, and must derange and disorder that delicate texture and those connected with It. A slow insidious inflammation, marked by a gradual development of the symptoms of disor- ganisation, viz. congestion of vessels, turbid hu- mours, flaccid tunics, and palsied iris, is too oft. the consequence. The sight, instead of irapro^- mg when the immediate effects of the injury are passed away, remains habitually weak and dim, or declines and fades altogether. The advocates for reehnation seem to forget that the principle winch is the same in both operations is the real ground of objection. As to the position of the lens, I suspect less mischief is done by the old method of depression, as less force is required to break a space for the vertical than the horizontal lens, provided the depression be carried to no greater extent than is necessary to clear the in- ferior border of the pupil." {Syiiopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 318.) The cases suited to depression and reclination are those in which the lens is firm and not particu- larly large, and where, for various reasons, we can- not with propriety perform, or are unwilling to per- form, the operation of extraction. The form of couching-needles should vary accord- mg to the object designed to be effected in the operation, _ Scarpa employed a very slender needle, possess- ing sufficient firmness to enter the eye without hazard of breaking, and having a point which is slightly curved. The curved extremity of the needle is flat upon its dorsum, or convexity ; sharp at its edges; and has a concavity constructed with two oblique surfaces forming in the middle a gentle eminence that is continued along to the very point of the instrument ; there is a mark on that side of the handle which corresponds to the convexity of the point. A couching-needle is sufficiently long when it does not exceed, at most, an inch in length: this affords the operator a greater command over the motions of the point, and enables him to judge more accurately how far it has penetrated the globe of the eye, before he has an opportunity of seeing it through the pupil. When Scarpa's needle is preferred it should therefore be of no greater length than the operation requires. The needle, here described, will penetrate the sclerotic coat as readily as any straight one of the same diameter, and by reason of its slenderness will impair the internal structure of the ej^e less in its move- ments, tlian common coucliing-needles. AV'hen cautiously pushed in a transverse direction, till its point has reached the upper part of the opaque lens, it becomes situated Avith its convesitj' to- wards the iris, and its point in the opposite di- rection ; and upon the least pressure being made with its convex surface, it removes the cataract a little downward, by which a space is afforded at the upper part of the pupil between the cataraci and ciliary processes, through which the instrument may be safely conveyed in front of the opaque body and its capsule, which it is prudent to lacerate in the operation. In cases of caseous, milky, and mem- branous cataracts, the soft pulp of the crystalline may be most readily divided and broken piecemeal by tlie edges of its curved extremity; and the front layer of the capsule lacerated into numerous membranous flakes which, by turning the point of the instrument towards the pupil, may be as easily piislied through this aperture into the anterior chamber, where Scarpa finds absorption takes place more quickly than behind the pupil. Beer and many ether skilful oper.ntors give the preference to a straiglit spear-pointed or lance-shaped needle, with cutting edges. Mr. Middleiiiorc pre-