GANGRENE. 1008 HOSPITAL which it infects, slowly decompose, and the pro- ducts of decomposition spread and infect the sound parts adjoining. Meanwhile the lymphatics in- flame; the blood becomes contaminated; feverish symptoms come on, if they did not at first; the blood loses its healthy properties; haemorrhages occur, and diarrhoea follows. The connection of secondary hajmorrhage with hospital gangrene, and with other less conspicuous unhealthy states of wounds, produced through hospital air, is well worthy of notice. 3. The treatment of the disease has gradually advanced from a state of confusion and uncertainty to one that is definite and rational. The applica- tion of caustic and antiseptic substances to the wound; the most entire cleanliness and pure air; tonics, and good diet, are the remedies now uni- versally sanctioned. Yet the reader will notice that some military surgical authorities at one time advocated bleeding largely ! and believed that great good resulted from it, and describe the patients as imploring to be bled ! and this, in a disease caused by a putrid poison, and tending to destroy life by debilit}-. In the article Inflammation, Treat- menl of, we hope to explain why bleeding was for- merly employed in the very cases io which it is now considered pernicious, and was then equally pernicious in realitj'.] Literary History. From the researches of Mr. Blackadder it appears probable that several of the ancient writers, in their descriptions of foul gan- grenous bleeding ulcers, must have alluded to the same kind of disease, which is now usually deno- minated hospital gangrene. Besides the use of the actual cautery, which, according to the modern French writers, is the surest means of arresting this distemper, seve- ral of the ancients appear also to have employed for its cure arsenical applications ; as, for instance, ^tius, Paulus, Rolandus, Avicenna, Guido, &c. The only doubt, whether these authors actually referred to hospital gangrene, depends upon their not having generally described its contagious nature. Although La Motte made cursory mention of hospital gangrene in 1722, under the name of potirrittire, and stated, that it had occurred in the Hotel Dieu at Paris, the first distinct modern ac- count of this disease is contained in the 3rd vol. o( the posthumous works of Pouteau, published in 1783. In the year 1788, Dussassoy, who succeeded Pouteau as chief surgeon of the Hotel Dieu at Lyons, also published a short treatise on the dis- order. The first very accurate description of hos- pital gangrene in the English language, appeared in the 6th vol. of the LoJidon Medical Journal, printed in 1785. The account is entitled, "Ob- servations on the Putrid Ulcer, by Mr. Gillespie, Burgeon of the Royal Navy." In the edition of Dr. Rollo's work on Diabetes, published 1797, there is a section on this subject, entitled, "A short account of a morbid poison, acting on sores; mid of the method of destroying it." In 1799, Sir Gilbert Blane, in the 3rd edit, of his book on the Diseases of Seamen, gave an account of hospital gangrene under the name of malignant ulcer ; and Dr. Trotter, in the 2nd vol. of his Medicina Nau- iica, published in the same year, described that JifFeclioii by the same appellation. In the third vol. of the same work. Dr. Trotter added to liis first account several valuable comnmiiicationo re- lating to tins disease, received from surgeons of tbe royal navy. Mr. John Bell also made hospital gangrene the subject of particular remark, in the 1st vol. of his Principles of Surrjery, published in 1801. According to Dr. Thompson, two excellent theses were likewise published on it in the Univer- sity of Edinburgh: the first entitled, " De Gan- gra3ni\ Contagiosa," by Dr. Leslie, in 1804 ; the second by Dr. Charles Johnson, in 1805, under the title of " De Gangrajua Contagiosa Nosoco- miali." (See Lectures on Ivflammalion, p. 4SG— 458.) Professor Thompson's account of the subject, published in 1813, contained the fullest history of the disease at that time collected. Boyer after- wards gave a very fair account of the distemper. (See Traits des Mai. CJdr. t. i. p. 320, 8vo. Paris, 1814.) These descriptions were followed by the valu- able essay of Delpech, entitled " Me'moire sur la. Complication des Plaics et des Ulceres connue sous le nom de Pourriture d'Hopital," 1815 ; some in- teresting observations by Dr. Hennen, in the Loi- doa Medical Repository for March, 1815 ; a Paper by Professor Brugmann, of Leyden, in the Aji- nales de Litterature Med. vol, xix. 1815 ; and the treatise of Mr. Blackadder, which contains some of the best remarks ever made concerning this affection, and is entitled " Observations on Phagedena Gangrasnosa, 8vo. Edinb. 1818." To these publications are to be added the interesting remarks of Mr, R, Welbank, On Sloughing Pha- gedasna, contained in the 11th vol. of the Med. Chir. Trans.; and those of Dr. Boggie, recorded in the 3rd vol. of the Edin. Med. Chir. Trans., [and reprinted at Edinburgh, 1848 ; the lectures of Guthrie, published in the Lancet, 1848, vol. ii., and in his Commentaries on Military Surgery, Cth ed. ; lectures by Velpeau, " On the Woimded during the Revolution of 1848," in the same vol. ; Macleod, " On the Surgery of the Crimean War; " besides other cases, and memoirs, which we shall refer to as we proceed.] Descriptions by various Military Surgeons. According to Mr, Blackadder, when the mor- bific matter, Vi-hich produces the disease, has been applied to some part of the surface of the bodj-, from which the cuticle has been removed, as by a blister, one or more small vesicles first appear, which are filled with a watery fluid, or bloody serum of a livid, or reddish-brown colour. The situation of the vesicle is generally at the edge of the sore. Its size is not unfrequcntly that of a split garden pea, and it is easily ruptured, the pellicle which covers it being very thin. When the vesicle is filled with a watery fluid, and has not been rup- tured, ita'ssumes the appearance of a greyish-white, or ash-coloured slougli; but when it contains a dark-coloured fluid, or has been ruptured, it puts on the appearance of a thin coagulum of blood, of a dirty, brownish-black colour. During the forma- tion of the vesicle, there is generally a change in the sensation of the sore, accompanied with a pain- ful feel like that of the sting of a gnat. After a slough is formed, it spreads with more or less rapidity, until it occupies the whole_ sur- face of the original sore ; and, when left to itseit (which seldom happens), there is little or no discharge, but the slongh acquires daily greater thickness.