3 E 3 quantity of sugar, Laa been extensively accepted. This is by no means inconsistent with the theory of the ganglionic system depressing or with- drawing its influence from the chylopoietic vis- cera, nor with the results of some of the recent experiments performed' on that system of nerves. Diabetes frequently accompanies disease of the pancreas; out of nine cases Frerichs found atrophy, or fatty degeneration of this gland, in five. The arrest of chemical development of the glucogenic matter appears sometimes to take place at the for- mation of lactic acid as in saliva, or dextrine, constituting the disease called diabetes insipidus. Diabetes occurs frequently in the tuberculous habit, and many of its subjects [die phthisical. The facts under the present head indicate some association between diabetes insipidus, albumi- nuria, diabetes mellitus, and tuberculosis. The treatment of this disease, notwithstanding a better knowledge of its pathology, is still very unsatisfactory, and too frequently unsuccessful. Every effort has been made to obtain a favourable result by a modification of the diet. Macgregor, RoUo, and those who believed that the sugar is formed in the alimentary canal from vegetable sub- stances, excluded all such substances, adopting a strictly animal diet. This treatment has often had a very decided effect in diminishing the quantity of urine and the amount of sugar ; but experience has shown that it suspends these symptoms without curing the disease, and patients cannot endure it beyond a limited period. Even with such a diet the quantitj' of sugar will sometimes continue to increase, and all sudden changes of diet, even of an opposite kind, are attended with a temporary ame- lioration too frequently followed by a return of the symptoms in an aggravated degree. Complete deprivation of food causes the sugar to diminish or disappear, and in one case it disappeared for forty- eight hours after total abstinence, and did not re- appear until three days after a gradual return to food. {Andral.) In addition to animal food, cruciferous and oleraceous vegetables, and gluten bread, have been recommended, but after a time patients tire of the last-mentioned substance. Dr. Camplin obtained a cure in his own person {On Diabetes and its Successful Treatment, second ed., 1860) by foregoing wine, bread, and everything saccharine or amylaceous, to the utmost possible extent, and adopting a bran cake, prepared in a particular way, by which the bran is reduced to a very fine powder, and is mixed with the smallest possible quantity of starch; using also fish, milk, fresh cruciferous vegetables, with abstinence from much liquid; tea in preference to coffee, toast-and- water, and, if any alcoholic fluid, claret, or pale French brandy. This diet, with warm clothing, sponging with tepid water, followed by friction, an occasional warm hath in winter, or sponging with cold salt and water in summer, change of air and occupations, and tonics, of which the effervescent citrate of ammonia and iron appeared to be the best, has been attended in his own and in other cases with the happiest results. Nume- rous cases, however, have resisted such a system of treatment. It has lately been shown that sugar itself, particularly substances consisting of glucose, as honey and fruits, may be administered to dia- betics, to the extent of from five to eight ounces daily, not only without increasing, hut with an abatement of the symptoms {Dr. Budd, Med. GLUCOH^MIA. 789 Times and Ga»., May 22nd, 1858); and, accord- ing to Bernard's views, sugar may be employed on rational principles, inasmuch as it is converted in the liver into an emulsive substance, and by fattening serves to counteract the tendency to emaciation, the sugar of the disease being pro- duced from albuminous substances. Caution is necessar)', however, that sugar is not given in excess of the converting function of the liver. Dr. Camplin's plan of treatment does not essen- tially differ from that which was resorted to pre- vious to the recent doctrines as to the source of the sugar, and we find Bouchardat, Bernard him- self, and Rayer, agreeing with Home, Rollo, add the most judicious of their predecessors, in pro- scribing amylaceous and saccharine aliments gene- rally ; not because they are the source of the sugar, but on account of their augmenting the activity of the liver and kidneys. Together with a system of diet, the advantage of attention to air and exercise cannot be overrated; hence the in- terior of hospitals, and the close dwellings and crowded streets of towns, are not favourable loca- lities for the successful treatment of glucohsemia. The vapour-bath and hot baths, and especially the hot-air bath, or sudatorium, have been found highly beneficial. The too frequent failure of all modes of treatment has been referred to the influence of our cold and moist climate {Banking's Abst. of Med. So. vol. i. p. 57); and those who believe the disease to be intimately associated with a state of suppressed perspiration place their reliance on diaphoretics. The skin becoming moist and soft is one of the earliest indications of amendment, the diminution of the saccharine excretion keeping pace with the improvement of the skin. Change to a warm climate has been especially recommended. Dr. Christie found the disease more manageable in Cey- lon, and many cases recorded by Dr. Imray afford evidence of the beneficial influence of a tropical cli- mate. {Edin. Med. and Surg. Jour., Jan. 1845, p. 83.) Dr. Gray, of Glasgow, adhering to the opinion that, in many cases at least, the sugar is produced in the stomach, recommends rennet in doses of a tablespoonful three, four, or six times a day, about half an hour after each meal, for the purpose of converting the sugar into lactic acid; administer- ing alkalies at the same time to neutralise the acid. By the rennet the ultimate conversion of the sugar into carbonic acid and water is believed to be pro- moted, and several cases are given in confirmation of its efficacy. Blood-letting, general and local, is advocated by Dr. Watts, of Glasgow, and others. When we consider that influences which augment the temperature and produce hypertemia of the liver are followed by the production of glucohtemin, and also that, but for the excessive action of the kidneys, the blood-vessels would be loaded with imperfectly elaborated blood, the measure is feasi- ble in the early stages of some cases; but it is not considered requisite or proper in old persons, in chronic cases, or where great debility has already supervened. In the medicinal treatment there is no known specific. From the disease having its origin pro- bably in various pathological conditions, each case requires to be studied jier se. Opium, particularly in the form of Dover's powder, has been often found useful, and has sometimes been given with