CANCER. 377 Dr. Walshe describes the stroma of scirrlius as having a special tendency to a rectilinear arrange- ment, and believes that this peculiarity serves to \ distinguish it from fibrous tumor, where the ten- dency is to curvilinear. The fibrous tissue con- stituting the stronm does not always consist of per- fectly developed fibres ; it may be in great part a striated solidified blastema tending to fibrillate. Elongated nuclei may be seen in it, and the fibre- developing cells which occur among the others probably belong to it. It does not contain yellow elastic tissue. The cell-growth of scirrhus consists fundament- ally of nuclei, with which are mingled celloid forms, of the greatest variety of shape, and in very difiisrent stages of completeness. In viewing a thin, trans- lucent section with a linear power of 3 to 400, one readily observes that the nucleoli are the prominent objects, and those which have most appearance of being constructed on a uniform and definite plan. They are large, often very large, present a well marked, sharp contour, and a nearly clear cavity, containing one or two nucleoli, often bright and re- fracting. The nucleoli are sometimes seen within - an elongated nucleus, separated from each other by a notable interval ; a condition which probably in- dicates that transverse division of the nucleus is about to take place. In the case in which I ob- served this, the number of nuclei was very great ; in some parts they existed almost alone: the growth of the tumor had lately been very rapid. Mr. Paget states that the cells are usually of smaller dimensions in quick-growing cancers than in others of slower progress. This may be very probably true ; but 1 should rather say that an abundance of free nuclei is a characteristic of rapidly growing scirrhus. These nuclei, to which especial attention has been directed by Lebert, Bennett, and others, are considered by some to be characteristic of can- cer ; and in this opinion Mr. Paget seems pretty nearly to agree. While I join with them in their opinion as to the import of these peculiar large nu- clei, xvUn ■present, 1 wish to lay stress, at tiie same time, on the point, that their absence is no proof of the non-existence of cancer. Mingled with them, when they are best marked, are numerous cor- puscles, not to be distinguished from ordinary nu- clei, and to which it seems to me quite impossible to refuse the cancerous-character. In many abdo- minal growths there are few, if any, of the large nuclei, the bulk of the mass is made up of ordinary looking ones and celloid particles developed upon them. It is not uncommon to observe a strange modification of the nucleus, or its becoming con- verted into a large pellucid vesicle, contained in a Btill larger cell, within whose granulous contents it lies imbedded, sometimes alone, sometimes with one or two other nuclei of larger or smaller sixe, and variously modified. Several nuclei seem occasion- ally, while in the course of cell development, to have amnlgamat<!d their several cell-masses to- gether, so that there results a large compound cell, enclosing three to five nuclei- When complete cells are formed, their siiape is exceedingly various ; oval, or round, or angular, or with out stretching processes tending as it were towards fibre-formation, or of pyrifnrm, fusiform, rcniform, or lanceolate shapes. But this variety of outer configuration is not the most important feature in the structure of these cells, but rather the circumstance that thev show so many variations from the normal plan of cell development. The liver cells difi"er exceedingly in shape, but are all formed on the same plan. Not so the cancer cells ; they almost foil description in some cases, so manifold are their interior arrange- ments. This has been termed by Bruch the mul- tiformity of cancer; and a most important feature it is ; one of the most diagnostic with which I am acquainted. Mr. Paget states : " I know no in- nocent tumors, except the cartilaginous, in which it is imitated." Amid the cancerous cell mass cor- puscles are very commonly found which correspond in all respects to the so-called glomeruli, and are evidently the result of fatty degeneration. Others, instead of enlarging, as the latter mostly appear to do, shrink up, and look stunted and withered, as they are figured by Mr. Paget. Rokitansky thus describes the fatty metamorphosis of cancer, which has just been noticed in the individual cells : " The cancer mass changes to a yellow, yellowish white, greasj', fatty substance, which occupies the meshes of the stroma, and constitutes the so-called reticulum of cancer, traversing them. Sometimes cretification takes place in its residue, and then the cancer mass becomes thickened into a fatty, calcareous mixture, and at last changed into mortar-like plugs, filling up the stromal interspaces." The condition of the cancer here described may appear in one of two forms : either it exists as separate spots, compared sometimes to seeds, which contrast by their colour and opacity with the greyish, translucent ground ; or as fine interlacing lines, which alone truly de- serve the name of reticulum, or net-work. To the former the term "apinoid" is appropriate {amov, a pear), there being considerable resemblance be- tween the cut surface of a pear and of a cancer in ' this state. Mr. Paget believes that the apinoid appearance does simply indicate fatty degeneration of the cancer mass itself; but the reticulated, he thmks, is peculiar to glandular organs, and, in the breast is " to be ascribed to the minuter lactiferous ducts, which, involved in the cancerous infiltration are now, with their contents, compressed, degenerate' and wasting." It is a remarkable thing, how much of decay there rnay be in a scirrhus which at the same time is growing actively. In a scirrhous tumor of the ribs, from a male tet. 64, the cut surface showed a scanty greyish ground, almost quite occupied with dead-white spots or short streaks. The grey parts consisted of fibroid tissue imbedding corpuscles ; the white were masses in a state of fatty degeneration. It is easy to conceive that, by a continuation of the same process, the whole morbid growth might have become inert and dead. Rokitansky distinguishes another kind of degeneration, in which portions of cancer change into a yellow brittle tubercle-like substance, often surrounded by a red injected area. The cells wrinkle up, become deformed and more or less de- stroyed, and finally fused into a puriform orsanious flocculent fluid, containing molecular fatty matter Rokitansky terms this change a necrosis, and says that it commonly occasions inflammation in the contiguous tissues. The following may have been an instance of this kind. Among several enlarged axillary glands removed at the same time as a larRe mammary scirrhus, there was one which was of a peculiar yellow tint in the greater part of its extent with a dead-whity marginal layer. The other glands were of the same colour and consistence as the growth in the breast, and had the same minute structure. In the yellow gland, the cells and nu-