3 M 4 many yews. When lie was admitted into the Jiospital, it was found that there was still a portion of bone depressed, and the trephine was applied to it. AVhen the circular piece of bono was completely sawn round by the trephine, Mr. Birch, iinder whose care the patient was, foiuid a difficulty in raising- it: he put the elevator under it, but still it adhered to something within. At last he took a pair of forceps, and, by using more force, he ex- tracted a little piece resembling a spur or thorn, which had proceeded from the inner table of the skull through the dura mater into the substance of the brain, and was the cause of the epileptic fits. After its removal, ho had but one more fit, and completely recovered." (loc. cit.) The immediate benefit afforded in these two in- stances, proves decidedly the propriet)' of elevating . the bone, at almost any period after the accident, if symptoms of cerebral irritation or compression continue. Many analogous instances might be collected from the experience of surgeons of exten- sive practice. Mr. Newberry of Hampstead tre- phined a man successfully in consequence of epileptic fits resulting from an injury he had received six months before, and Sir David Dundas performed the operation with equal success and at a similar interval; the patient had become partially insane from the effects of a depressed fracture of the cranium. {Provincial Med. and iSurg. Joimial, vol. i. No. 12.) Mr. Cock, of Guy's Hospital, ope- rated successfully on a similar case. (See also cases by Guthrie, loc. cit.) But if the depressed fracture is accompanied by a wound of the scalp, and thus becomes compound, is there any necessity to modify our practice.' or, in other words, does such a complication necessitate the use of the trephine ? That the danger of the patient is increased when the scalp is lacerated there can be no doubt, for there is a greater pro- bability that inflammation, with its consequences, may attack the dura mater and the brain, and thus lead to suppuration. But this is no reason for laying bare the coverings of the brain by the tre- phine, or by the use of Hey's saw; for by such a proceeding we add to the mischief, and thus increase the risk already incurred. It is better to replace the scalp carefully, and to bring the edges of the wound lightly together, so as to favour their union, and thus, if possible, convert the compound into a simple fracture. It is not advisable by compresses and bandages forcibly to place the parts in coaptation, as such a mode of dressing would prevent the escape of any blood whicli might be ef- fused beneath the scalp, or from between the edges of the bone. These remarks apply to cases of compound fracture, where there are no symptoms of compression of the brain. If the bone is much comminuted, the fragments should bo carefully removed, if this can be done without violence ; but if there is any difficulty in effecting it, it is better to leave tlie bone to be separated by the suppurative process. If, after the union of the scalp, inflammation, attack the bone and the dura mater, the united edges of the wound will soon separate, and the state of the parts beneath will at once become apparent. The super- vention of erysipelatous inflammation of the scalp in compound depressed fracture enhances materially the danger of the case; and hence the most cautious treatment is requisite, as well as the most careful attention to diet; and the steady employment of HEAD, INJUEIES OF THE. 903 cold applications, as advised by.Thomson and Schraucker, should be persevered in. It will be seen, therefore, that the practice of non- interference in cases of compound depressed frac- ture without symptoms of pressure, which is hero inculcated, is reduced to the simple principles which guide us in the treatment of depressed fracture in general ; nor do we see sufficient grounds for making any important distinction in the cases, being satisfied that, as a general rule, operative interference is not only unnecessary, but positively injurious. We will not say that the sim- ple elevation of the bone by carefully insinuating the edge of the elevator is unjustifiable in the ab- sence of symptoms of pressure, but we most strenu- ously condemn any forcible use of this instrument for the piu'pose of raising a compound depressed fracture, especially if this cannot be done without such injury to the dura mater as may result from its extensive exposure and laceration of its vessels. It is true that the simple sawing out of a piece of bone, as has frequently been done for the relief of epileptic fits and other consequences of depressed fracture, is seldom attended with any inconvenience; but in extensive depression of the skull, accom- panied by a Avound of the scalp, it is often im- possible to raise the bone with the elevator, and to effect this object with the trephine would require numerous applications of the instrument. In considering this subject, however, we may re- mark that a compound fracture of the skidl, de- pressed or not, generally results from the infliction of extraordinary violence, and that the symptoms may consequently become more dangerous tlian where there is no wound of the scalp; but, giving to this fact all due weight and consideration, we still hold to the opinion alreadj' expressed in favour of non-interference as a general rule in compound depressed fractures without symptoms. Sir Benjamin Brodie, referring to Sir Aatley Cooper's opinion on this subject, says:—"Sir A. Cooper has stated in his lectures on Surgery, that there is great difference as to the danger of inflam- mation and suppuration of the membranes of the brain, between those cases in which the fracture and depression is complicated with a wound of the scalp, and those in which the soft parts are unin- jured, such mischief being much more liable to oc- cur in cases of the first kind than in those of the second ; and on these grounds he recommends that where this complication exists wo should not hesi- tate to employ the trepliine. But many persons un- doubtedly have recovered in whom there was at the Rame time a wound of the scalp, and a fracture and depression of the cranium, although no operation was resorted to. I have conversed also with several other surgeons, whoso experience on the subject has corresponded with my own, and all these cii-- cumstances led nie to doubt the accuracy of Sir A. Cooper's conclusion. The question, however, is not to be decided merely on these premises; and it may remain to be decided, what is the probability of s\ippin-ation taking place in these cases, as com- pared with those in which the scalp remains unin- jured. " For many years I have preserved notes of a large number of the eases of injury to the head which it has fallen to my lot to witness. Among them of course there are many in which there was a fracture, with or without depression, followed by su[)purtition between the dura mater and bone.