625 ENCANTHIS. to justify the operation, and it was delayed. The Febrile symptoms continued, with cold sweats, and the patient died on tiie eighth day. Five pints of pus were found collected in tlio chest. (See Lc. Draii's Ohs. in Surgery, pp. 109, 110, edit. 2.) The symptoms more particularly depending upon empyema itself, that is to say, upon disease and suppuration within the chest, are nearly the same <is those which accompany all large deep-seated abscesses. Tlie fever attending the thoracic inflam- mation, which ends in suppuration, gradually dimi- nishes, but does not entirely cease. On the contrary', it soon changes into hectic, attended with flushings of the cheeks, heat of the palm of the hands, and exacerbations every evening, and after meals. In the night, tlie upper parts of the body are covered with perspiration; the patient is tormented within- satiable thirst ; his appetite fails ; his debility be- comes extreme ; he is subject to frequent fainting fits ; diarrhcea ensues ; and the finger nails become curved, shining, and of the yellow tinge observable all over the body. At length, the utmost ema- ciation, and the facies Hippocratica, come on, frecpiently attended with dilated pupils, and enfeebled vision, and indicating the approach of death. As the operation of empyema, and some other particulars, relating to. this subject, are treated of in another part of this Dictionary (see Paracen- tesis OP THE Thorax), it will only be necessary for me here to subjoin a list of works, which may be advantageously consulted for information on em- pyema. A. Vater et J. E. Mutillet, Empyema, e vomica pulmonis, rupta in cavitatem pectoris de.xtram effusa, indeque pulrao luijus lateris compressus penitusque ab officio remotus, Wittemb. 1731. {Holler, Uisp. ad Morb, 2. 4031.) Sharp's Critical Enquiry into the Present State of Surgery, sect, on Empyema. Le Bran's Obs. in Surgery. J. L. Petit, Maladies Chirurgicales, t. i. chap. iii. Warner's Cases in Sur- ffery, chap. vi. edit. 4. M^m. sur rOp6-ation du Trypan us Sternum, par M. de la Martinifere, in M^m. de I'Acad. Royale de Chirur^ie, t. xii. p. 342. edit. 12mo. L. G. Van Melcote, Do Erapyemate, Tenera- niuiid. 1783. Sabaticr, M(5decine Operatoire, t. 2. p. 247, &c. edit. 1. Andouard, De I'Empyeme, Cure Rndicale obtenue par I'Operation, &c. 8vo. Paris, 1808. Flajani, Collezione d'Osservazioni, &c. di Chirurp;ia, t. iii. p. 183, &c. 8vo. Roma, 1802. llicherand, Nosogr. Cliir. t. iv.sect.des Maladies del'Apparelrespiratoire. Iley's Practical Obs. in Surgery, ed. 3. Lansus, Pa- thologie Chir. t. i. p. 122. &c. Larrcy, Mdm. de ChirurKie Militaire, t. iii. p. 442; et t. iy. p. 35G. &c. I'ellelan, Clinique Chir. t. iii. p. 236. &c. J. JJcimcn, Principles of iMilitary Surgery, p. 384. &c. ed. 2. 8vo. Edinb. 1820. Boijcr, Mai. Chir. t. vii. p. 351, &c. 8vo. Paris, 1821. Andral, Precis d'Anatomie Pathol. Also, Clinique Mt!d. t. ii. Archer, in Trans, of Dublin Association, &c. vol. ii. Lnenncc, On Diseases of the Chest, ed. by Forbes. Duncan, in Ed. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. i. Graves ami Stokes, in Dublin Hospital Reports,vol. t. Edinb. Med.Journ.No.93. 'I'ownsend, art. Empyema, in Encyclopaidia of Practical Medi- cine, part 7. ENCANTHIS (from iv, and KdpOos, the angle of the eye), at its commencement, is a small, soft, red, and sometimes rather livid, excrescence, which grows from the caruncula lachrymalis, and, at the same time, from the neighbouring semilunar fold of the conjunctiva. The inveterate encanthia is ordinarily of considerable magnitude ; its roots ex- tend beyond thecaruncula lachrymalis and semilunar fold, to the membranous lining of one or both eyelids. Tile patient experiences very serious inconvenience from its interposition between the commissure of the eyelids, which it necessarily keeps asunder. Thus, indeed, it keeps up a chronic ophthalmia, impedes the action of the eyelids, and, in parti- cular, prevents the complete closure of the eye. Besides, partly by compressing, and partly by displacing the orilices of tlic puncta lachrymalia, it obstructs the free passage of the tears into the nose. According to Scarpa, this excrescence, on its first appearance, is commonly granulated, like a mulberry, or is of a ragged and fringed structure. Afterwards, when it has acquired a certain size, one part of it represents a granulated tumour, while the rest appears like a smooth, whitish, or ash-coloured substance, streaked with varicose ves- sels, sometimes advancing as far over the conjunctiva, covering the side of the eye next to the nose, as where the corneaand sclerotic vmite. In this ad- vanced state, the encanthis constantly interests the caruncula lachrymalis, the plica semilunaris, and the membranous lining of one or both eyelids. In addition to the roots, which in such circumstances connect the excrescence with the caruncula lachry- malis, the semilunar fold, and the conjunctiva of the globe of the eye, the encanthis emits an ap- pendage, or prominent firm elongation, along the inside of the upper or lower eyelid, in the direc- tion of its edge. The middle, or body, of the en- canthis divides near the cornea, as it were, like a swallow's tail, to form two appendages, or elonga- tions, one of which extends along the inner surface of the upper eyelid by the margin of which it is covered, while the other shoots in a direction from the internal towards the external angle, along the inside of the lower eyelid, which also conceals it beneath its edge. The body of the encanthis, or that middle por- tion of the whole excrescence, which reaches from the caruncula lachrymalis and semilunar fold, in- clusively, over the conjunctiva almost to the junc- tion of the sclerotica with the cornea, sometimes forms a prominence, as large as a small nut or chest- nut. At other times, it is of considerable size, but depressed, and broken down, as it were, at its centre. Still, however, the body of the encanthis preserves that granulated appearance which pre- vailed at first ; while one, or both the appendages, on the inside of the eyelids, appear rather like a fleshy than a granulated substance. Sometimes, the encanthis assumes a cancerous malignancy, evinced by the dull, red, leaden, or (as Beer says) the bluish-red colour of the excre- scence ; by its excessive hardness, and the lancin- ating pains which occur in it, and extend to the forehead, the whole eye-ball, and the temple, es- pecially when the tumour has been slightly touched • by the propensity of the excrescence to bleed ; and by the partial ulcerations on its surface, which'emit a fungous substance, and a thin, and exceedingly acrid discharge. The disease is constantly attended with epiphora, and preceded by a scirrhous indura- tion of the caruncle. The eyeball, and neighbour- ing bones, which are of a spongy texture, soon par- ticipate in the disease, and the lower eyelid be- comes everted. {Beer, Lcli.re von den Auqcnh- b. ii. p. 187, 10!!.) This form of encanthis only admits of palliative treatment ; unless, indeed, aii efi'ort be made to extirpate it entirely, together with the whole of what is contained in the orbit, and even then, the event is dubious. ' ' Beer joins Scarpa in the statement that the ope- ration rarely proves successful, and adds, that it is always followed by an incurable weeping, and S S