''^^ FRACTURE. The experiments of Duhamel and Detlileef were carefully repeated by Bordenave, who ascertained several new and interesting facts. The result was the same in regard to the phenomena observed; but the explanation of them was different. Instead of attributing the formation of callus to the periosteum, like Duharael ; or to the ex- travasation of Ij'mph, or fibrine, like Dethleef ; Bordenave conceived that broken bones unite again by a process analogous to that whicii nature employs for the union of the divided soft parts. His inference is principally founded on two facts generally admitted. 1st, That there is in the bones a vascular texture, designed to maintain the circulation in them. 2nd, That such texture dilates when fractures are uniting, as appears from the swelling in the situation of the fracture, without which swelling there could be no union. Bordenave further remarks, with Haller and Dethleef; 1st, That callus, at the commencement of its foiTuation, appears to consist of a glutinous fluid effused from the ruptured vessels. 2nd, That this substance afterwards assumes the form of cartilage, to which certain vessels 'are distri- buted, which deposit the bony matter, and thus begin the generation of callus. 3rd, That the particles of bone, being all joined together, the callus changes into a porous substance, which in time becomes solid and compact, lilce the substance of bones. John Hunter explained the formation of callus by the organisation of the extravasated blood, and its subsequent ossification. He noticed also the inflammation of the extremities of the bone, tlie softening and rounding of them, and the partiiil absorption of their earthy particles. According to Mr. Howship, the first effect of fracture is the extravasation of blood between the fragments into the medullary cavity, and also into the periosteum, which is thus thickened. The blood coagulates, loses its colouring matter, be comes organised, assumes the appearance of carti lage, and is at length converted into bone. This latter change is first effected external to the frag ments, and in the medullary canal, so that an osseous case is formed before the complete reunion of the fracture. (See Med. Qdr, Trans, vols. vi. vii, and viii. and G. Gulliver, in Edinb. Med. and Surg. Jour, for July 1835. p. 44.) Mr. Howship's observations are interesting, as coinciding very much witii those previously made by Duhamel, Villerme, Breschet, and Dupuytren. The observations made by Baron Larrey lead him to reject as erroneous the doctrine which refers the production of callus to the periosteum, and he adopts the opinion that the union and reparation of bones are the work of their own vessels. He ad- verts to examples in which, after the use of the trephine in young subjects, the perforation becomes more or less closed by new bone, thrown out from the circumference towards the centre. Here, says he, the ossification assuredly can neither be referred to the pericranium, nor the dura mater. Tiie first ofthe.se membranes has been extensively destroyed, and if the second were concerned, a vertical sub- stance, shutting up the opening, would be apparent. Jn turther support of his opinions, Baron Larrey cites the well-known celerity with which fractures 01 tlie lower jaw unite, on account of the irreal vasculanty of that bone; and he believes, with Sir ■^stiey Cooper, that if the ends of a fracture do not touch, in consequence of loss of substance, the in- tervening space remains unfilled up by new bone • a position which seems rather repugnant to what he has said concerning the" mode of reparation after the use of the trephine. With respect to the alleged impossibility of union, when fractures are attended with loss of substance, Mr. Gulliver observes that the union of bone, under such circumstances, is common in the lower animals, and has been repeatedly observed in the human subject, of which a remarkable in- slance IS recorded by M. Contevoz. (Mem. de I Acad, de Our.) " Professor Syme showed me a case in the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, in which he had removed from the tibia of an adult male about an inch of the entire diameter of the bone, which had been completely reproduced ; and I saw in the practice of Dr. Bushe of New York, a similar example in the femur of a young raan,_ which was not followed by a shortening ol" the limb equal to the length of that portion of the shaft of the bone removed by Dr. Bushe." (Gul- liver, in Edinb.Med. Jourh. No. 124, p. 46.) If any doubt could exist on this point, it would cease on our remembering the occasional cures of dis- united fractures effected by sawing off the ends of the bone. For the most complete account of the process by which broken bones unite, we are indebted principally to MM. Villerme, Breschet, Sanson, Cruveilhier, and Dupuytren, all of whom, how- ever, owe a great deal to their predecessors in the same field of inquiry, more especially to Duhamel. In 1808 Baron Dupuytren instituted certain ex- periments to determine the truth of the statements made on this subject by Bordenave and Bichat, but was surprised to find nothing to justify their accounts, and he was led to adopt other views, partly founded, however, on those of Duhamel. The process is far more complicated than repre- sented by Bordenave and Hunter. Many years ago Sir Benjamin Brodie also made experiments upon animals with the view of elucidating this subject, and the preparations are still preserved. At that time he thought of publishing a paper on the union of fractures ; but, before his investi- gations were completed, he found the whole matter so satisfactorily made out by Baron Dupuytren, that ho was induced to relinquish the design. (See London Med. Gaz. for 1833-34, p. 54.) Tlie results of Mr. Bransbj' Cooper's experiments seem also to agree very much with those arrived at by Dupuytren, due allowance being made for the greater celerity of the process in the bones of rabbits than in those of the adult human subject. (See Guy's Hospital Reports, part 4.) The re- searches of MM. Villerm(J,Dupuytren,and Breschet prove that all the old descriptions of the process were too limited and exclusive. When a bone is broken, the soft parts near it are torn and con- tused, and the vessels of these, as well as of the periosteum and medullary membrane, assist in the reparation. It has long been familiarli' known that callus is not formed suddenly'; that it requires more or less time for its production ; iind that the broken part of the bone only obtains soliditj' by degrees. Now, before the work of repair is com- plete, several changes happen, one after a.nother, or in succession. Hence, the process is now usually divided by pathologists into four stages. In the Jirsl, comprising a period of about ten