570 DISLOCATION. articular surface of the tibia as well, when union between the cut surfaces could more readily take place.] [Confjenital dislocations of the hiee. — Cases of this kind have been observed by MM. Cruveilliier, J. Giierin, Bouvier, Kleeberg, and others. The bones of the leg are in the great majority of instances dislocated fonuards on the thigh. When this is the case, the bones of the leg are bent forwards at an angle,and the deformity may even be so great that the articular surface of the tibia looks downwards towards the ground, and the foot touches the ab- domen. Cases of displacement of the leg back- wards and laterally have also been recorded, but- these appear to be much more rare. With respect to treatment, attempts should be made to straighten the limb by the gradual and care- ful application of force, and it should then be fixed in its proper position by splints or other suitable apparatus, until the tendency to displacement is overcome. (See CJuxtelain, Bibl. Med. t. Ixxv. p. Savon, des Lux. Congcn. these de concour, 1841; Bard, A mer. Journ. of Med. Science, 1835 ; Cru- veilhier, Atlas d'Anat. Pathol. 2'livr.; Wutzer, Muller's Archiv. fur Anat. und Physiol. 1825, part iv. p. 365; Kleeberg, Hamburger, Zeitschrifl, vol. vi. part ii.; Bouvier, Bulletin de I'Acad, t, ii. p. 301; Robert, de Vices Congen des Artie, ^c. ^c.)J Dislocations of thk Upper Extremity op THE Fibula. According to Sir A. Cooper, luxations of the upper end of the fibula, from relaxation of the ligaments, are more frequent than those from vio- lence. The head of the bone is thrown back- wards. The bone is easily replaced, but im- mediately slips behind the tibia again. When the case is attended with disease, repeated blis- ters are recommended; and afterwards a strap, to confine the bone in its natural situation. {Sicrg. Essays, part ii, p. 105.) In dislocations from injury, a roller, a compress applied over the head of the fibula, and a splint along this bone, would be proper. {Boyer, Mal. Chir. t. iv. p. 374.) The latter author has seen a displacement of the fibula upwards, accompanying a dislocation of the foot outwards. This case must be exceedingly unfrequent, as it is resisted not only by the liga- ments of the upper joint of the fibula, but also by those very strong ligamentous bands which bind the malleolus externus to the astragalus and oscal- cis. In all the cases which I have seen, the pres- sure of the astragalus, when driven outwards, has broken the fibula. In the instance mentioned by Boyer, the double luxation of the fibula was readily reduced by rectifying the position of the foot, and bringing the astragalus into the proper place again with respect to the tibia, [Dislocations of the upper extremity of the fibula are very rare, but they have been met with occasionally, Ijoth in the backward and forward direction. ■Dislocation bachvards. — A case of dislocation backwards was admitted into Guy's Hospital un- der Mr. Bransby Cooper. The accident was caused by a waggon wheel passing over the limb. The fibula, when traced upwards, seemed to pass more backwards than natural. It was also more mov- able than usual, and the upper part of the bone was felt in the popliteal space. There was scarcely any pam given by motion of the limb, and the man possessed the power of extending it perfectly, and of flexing ,t to a considerable extent] but whether he could completely flex it was not ascertained. Ihe dislocation was reduced by bending the leji to relax the biceps muscle, and then grasping the head of the fibula and pressing it into its natural situa- tion. Moistened pasteboard and a bandage were then applied, but were found insufiicient to keep the bone m its place, in consequence of the biceps drawing it back; a tourniquet pad was therefore applied over the pasteboard, and by means of this the head of the fibula was forcibly pressed forwards. This was continued for nearly two months, at the end of which time the fliDula re- mained rather behind its usual situation, but was perfectly fixed. (Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations, edited by B. Cooper, p. 222.) A remarkable case of dislocation backwards, from muscular contraction, has been recorded by M. Dubreuil. • The patient had made a sudden efl'ort to save himself from falling, and his limb was at the same time forcibly abducted. At the same moment a sharp pain was felt in the situation of the head of the fibula, which was carried back- wards an inch behind the external tuberosity of the tibia. The foot was thrown outwards, and the whole peroneal region became cold and numb. The leg being semi-flexed, the dislocation was reduced by pressing the head of the fibula from behind for- Avards. But the leg being placed in the extended position, the next day the bone was again found displaced, and it became necessary to apply a lea- ther knee-cap to retain it in its place. There seems no reason to doubt that the action of the biceps produced the dislocation in this instance, and was also the cause of the relapse after the reduction. The case, as M. Malgaigne observes, clearly indi- cates the propriety of keeping the knee moderately flexed until the ligaments are consolidated. (Traile des Trad. t. ii. p. 986.) The displacement of the foot outwards in this case seems an approach to the injury described by Boyer, and already alluded to. In a case where there was much difliculty in retaining the bone in its place, it might perhaps be a question whether subcutaneous section of the tendon of the biceps should not be resorted to. Dislocation forwards.—A case of dislocation for- wards, caused by a fall into a sawpit, was seen by Mr. Thomson of Greenock. The head of the fibula was thrown forwards upon the anterior and outer aspect of the tibia. Mr. Thomson endeavoured to replace it with the fingers, but without success, until the leg was flexed on the thigli, so as to relax the biceps, when the bone immediately slipped back into its place with an audible snap, and the part resumed its natural appearance. A compress and bandage were applied, but no diflicult_y appears to have been met with'in this case in the retention of tlio bone in its place. The patient was able to re- sume his work in a fortnight. (Lancet, voh i. 1850, p. 385.) M. Malgaigne refers to two cases in which he thinks the dislocation forwards must have been produced by muscular action, the mus- cles in operation being the extensors which arise from the anterior surface of the fibula. In one of those recorded by M. Jobard the patient fell while mounting a staircase, and heard a snap before he reached the ground. Here the tendon of the bi- ceps was found to describe n curve from behind for-'