EAR. 599 summer. If this be not done, flies, attracted b)' the suppuration, enter the meatus nuditorius, and, while the patient is unconscious, depnsit their eggs in the ear. Acre!, in speal^ing of worms, generated in the meatus auditorius, observes, that there is no better remedy for them than tiio decoction of ledum paliistre, injected into tlie ear several times a day. However, as this plant cannot alwaj'S be procured, an infusion of tobacco in oil of almonds may be used, a few drops of which are to be introduced into the ear, and retained there by means of a little bit of cotton. This application, which is not in- jurious to the lining of the passage, is fatal to in- sects, and especially to worms. When caterpillars, ants, earwigs, and other insects, have insinuated themselves into the meatus auditorius, they maybe removed with a piece of lint, smeared with honey ; and when they cannot be extracted by this simple means, they may sometimes be taken out with a small pair of forceps. In general, however, the most safe and expeditious practice for the removal of small insects, peas, beads, and other extraneous bodies, from the meatus auditorius, is to throw tepid water into the passage with a proper syringe, by which means they are forced out with the fluid. When the bead, or globular substance is small, (according to Mr. Buchanan) the best mode of extraction will be by means of the syringe, and in- jection of tepid water. For this purpose, the point of the syringe ought to be pressed gently against the edge of the meatus, so that it may occupy as little of the diameter of the tube as possible, and when the injection arrives at the membrana tympani, the regurgitation will force the bead, or other substance,outwards. If this be rather large, it may perhaps remain at the entrance of the meatus, whence it ought to be extracted by means of a pair of forceps. (See Budianan's Illustrations of Acoustic Surgery, p. 40.) [In this country, at least, the introduction of in sects into the meatus is rare, and if the ova be de- posited in the pus from a diseased tympanum, they probably die ere they become developed.] In May, 1829, I was called to a child about two j'ears and a half old, into one of whose ears a pebble, and into the other a French bean, had been pushed by another child, and remained there for ten months, causing complete deafness and extreme suffering. By throwing tepid water forcibly into the ear, I soon dislodged these foreign bodies, which lay close against the tympanum, entirely hidden by the swollen state of the lining of the car, indurated wax, and dried discharge. With a bent probe their e,xtraction was then readily elfected. Several surgeons, previously consulted, had failed in their endeavours to remove the substances by other methods. The presence of foreign bodies in the car often occasions the most extraordinary symptoms, as we may see in the fourth observation of Fabriciiis Ilildanus, Cent. 13. After four surgeons, who had been successively consulted, had in vain exerted all their industry to extract a bit of glass from the left car of a young girl, the patient found herself abandoned to the most excruciating pain, which soon extended to all the side of the head, and which, after a con.iiderable time, was followed by a paralysis of the leftside, a dry cough, suppression of the menses, epileptic ronvuLsions, and, at length, an atrophy of the left arm. Hildanus cured her, by extracting the piece of glass, which had remained eight years in her ear, and had been the cause of all this disorder. Although tlie extraction must have been very difficult, it does not appear that Ilildanus found it necessary to practice an incision behind the ear, as some authors have advised, and amongst them Duverney, who has quoted the fore- going case. We must agree with Leschevin, that such an incision does not seem likely to facilitate the ol]ject very materially ; for, it must be on the outside of the extraneous substance, which is in the bony part of the canal. The incision enables us, in some measure, to avoid the obliquity of the passage, as Duverney has observed ; but it is not such obliquitj- of the cartilaginous portion of the canal, that can be a great impediment ; for, as it is flexible, it may easily be made straight, by drawing the external ear upward. Hence, Fabri- cius ab Aquapendente rejected this operation, first proposed by Pauhis jlilgineta ; and it is justly dis- approved of by Leschevin. {Prix de I'Acad, de Chir. t. ix. p. 147, ^dit. I2mo.) Sabatier relates a case, in which a paper ball, which had been pushed into the meatus auditorius, made its way by ulceration into the cavity of the t3-mpanum, where an abscess formed, which com- municated with the interior of the cranium. (Did. des Sciences Med. t. vii. p. 8.) [It is impossible too strongly to guard the prac- titioner against too great interference in attempts to remove these foreign bodies. It has frequently occurred to the writer of this article to witness the entire destruction of the tympanum in such endea- vours._ No attempt should be made unless the body is distinctly seen, or at all events prominently felt; the latter proof of its existence must, how- ever, be received with very great caution. It has several times occurred to the writer to witness the long duration, in two or three instances for many years, of a foreign body in the meatus, which has unsuspectingly given rise to follicular and other abscesses, and occasional deafness; all which un- toward effects subsided upon the removal of the oifending material.] 6. Meatus Auditoruis obstructed with iJiiehened or hardened Cerumen. The cerumen, secreted in the meattis auditorius by the sebaceous glands, frequently accumulates there in large quantities, and becoming harder and harder, at length acquires so great a degree of solidity as entirely to deprive the patient°of the power of hearing. Galen has remarked, h numero eorum. qua meatum ohstrmmt, sordes esse quce in aurilms colluji sclent. This species of deafness is one of those kinds which are the most frequent, and, at the same time, the most easy of cure. For- merly injections, either with simple olive oil, or oil of almonds, were recommended. The injection was retained by a piece of cotton, and when there was reason to believe that the matter was suffi- ciently softened, an attempt was made to extract it by means of a small scoop-like instrument. Vari- ous experiments were made by llaygrath at Chester, in 1769, from which itappaars that warm' water is preferable to oil. The water dissolves the mucous matter which connect^" together the truly ceruminous particles, and which is the cause of their tenacity ; other applications only succeedinff by reason of the water which they contain. The lodgment of hard pellets of wax, if neglected may ultimately produce ulceration of the tvm' Q Q 4 ^