3 V 3 ' integrity. It must be observed also, that bubbles of gas have been seen in the cerebral vessels, and that Prof. Lawrie found similar little vesicles filled with gas, in the subnuicous tissue of the stomach. These modoni observations confirm the records of Trolliet and Morgagni {De Sedibus et Caus. Morh. Epist. vii.), Louis and Lescure (in MCd. Mhn. de lAcadhnie do Chir. t. iv. p. 538 ; t. v. p. 527), who speak of gas escaping from the heart and' aorta. _ This suggests the supposition, favoured by the weiglit of evidence, that the emphysema is due to the decomposition of the blood, which in hydro- phobia is found so dark and fluid. The stomach has several times been found to contain altered and extravasated blood, such as would explain the coffee-coloured matters vomited in the last stage of the disease; the mucous membrane often ecchy- mosed, and once eroded. In a careful microscopic and chemical examination of the blood (Schmidt's Jahrbuclier) the globules Avere found to be desti- tute of nuclei, or tendency to agglomerate. A so- lution of muriatic acid rapidly disorganised the globules, and " disengaged numerous bubbles of gas."] _ The lungs were commonly of a deep red colour in all the six subjects dissected by Trolliet, and they were observed to be gorged with blood in cases reported by numerous writers ; as Bonet (see Vmi Sivieten, t. iii. § 1140); Boerhaave {Op. Omn. p. 215); Morgagni (2>e Sedibus et Cms A/orb. Ep. viii. art. 23, &c.); Mead, Darluc {Recueil piriod. ^c. t. iii. and iv.); Faure (Hisi. de la Soc. Roy. de Med. p. 33); De la Caze (ib. p. 69); Portal, Oldknow, Ballingall {Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ.); Marshall {Mor- bid Anatomy of the Brain, ^c. p. 69.); Gorey {Journ. de Med. Chir. t. xiii. p. 83); Ferriar {Med. Hist, and Reflections, cjc.) « Pulmones in quinque nigri ex toto, aut magna parte, (says Morgagni,) in quatuor magna item ex parte san- guine pleni." In a case examined by M. Ribes, the larynx, trachea, and bronchi, besides pre- senting traces of inflammation, were everywhere lined with a tliick'white frothy mucus. (Magendie's Journ. t. viii. p. 232.) [Of the cerebro-spinal organs, the dura mater was 20 times more or less congested, the arach- noid 11 times, the pia mater 36 times. Opacity of the arachnoid was observed 18 times, and it was twice adherent to.the dura mater : in all the arachnoid was dry. The cerebrum was 38 times congested; 7 times it was softened in places; IS times it was natural. Once the pia mater had imdergone blue discoloration; once there was ex- travasation in the corpus striatum. In the majoritv of cases, the lateral ventricles did not contain more than the usual quantity of fluid. On the other hand, m about one-third of the cases they were more than naturally full; in one extreme case con- taining an ounce and a half of senim. The choroid plexuses were 9 times congested, and twice showed small bubbles of gas. The medulla oblongata was 5 times natural, twice softened, and 9 times congested. The spinal membranes were in 13 cases congested" 3 times ecchymosed in patches, twice opaque. The medulla spinalis presented in 10 cases no unusual appearance; in 6 it was in a varying degree vas- cular; in 4 softened. But in interpreting these appearances, the fluid condition of the blood and ■ tendency to hypostatic congestion after death must Lbe borne in mind. AH the cerebro-spinal fluid was HYDROPHOBIA, jog^ opaque and puriform. The condition of the crania nerves was examined in ten of these cases; once their origins were vascular; once the vagus, where it gives off the laryngeal branch, was congested; once the sheath of the 8th and 9th nerves was con- gested at their origin. The peripheral ends of the nerves were frequently examined. The nerves in the neighbourhood of the cicatrix gave 11 times a negative result; once they had the appearance and colour of muscular tissue. It is a remarkable point, however, in connexion with the respiratory spasm, that the vagus was generally congested, and its sheath injected with blood: so also with the 4th and 7th nerves. (See Tamhayn, Leivis Smith, Rad- ciffe and Adams, loc. cit.)] Hufeland conjectured that in hydrophobia the medulla spinalis is the part originally affected, whence the effects of the disease are propagated to the nerves of the trunk. {Bibl. Med. t. iv. p. 395, &c.) Dr. R. Read believed that an alteration of the spinal marrow was essentially concerned in the disease. {On the Nature, S^c. of Tetanus and Hydro- phobia, 8vo. Dublin, 1817.) A case was also pub- lished by M. Matthey, of Geneva, in which a quantity of serum was found within the spinal canal. {Journ. gen de Mid. t. liv. p. 279.) See on this subject some observations by Dr. Abercrombie {Jj^dinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. xiv. p. 66) In one instance dissected by M. Ribes, the vessels of the pia mater, brain, and medulla spinalis, were gorged with dark blood, but without any appearance of inflammation. (See Magendie's Journ. t. viii p. 32.) The cases recorded [by earlier writers] in which the digestive organs presented considerable morbid appearances are numerous. Thus, Joseph de Aromatanus, Vlsxl^xc, {Recueil piriod. t. iii p 189 t P- 270), Sauvages (p. 107), Professor tlossi, M. Gorci {Journ. de Mid. Chir. Ac t xiii.) and Dr. Powell (Case of Hydrophobia) found inflammation either in the pharynxor the oesophasus or both these tubes. Dr. Powell' or both these tubes. Dr. Pow'ell's words are "The oesophagus was rather redder than natural, and covered with a thin layer of coagulated lymph " A similar coat of lymph was also found by Oldknow {Jidinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. v. p 280") Bal lingall(op. cit. vol. xi. p. 76), Dr. Ferriar f %t ™ • P- "^"g'' Gillman lound the pharynx and oesophagus in a state of inflammation. { On,the Bite of a Rabid Animal, p. 1.3, 23, 26, 44.) M. Ribes found the pharynx and soft palate slightly inflamed. ' ♦1,1' It ™any of these instances that the inflammation extended to the oesophaeua h^m the trachea and bronchi. {Diet, des Sciences Med t. xlvii. p. 98.) Inflammation of the mucous membrane of the stomach and small intestines has likewise been very generally noticed, as may be seen by referring to the accounts published hv Morgagni, Powell, Oldknow, Ferria? BSl nga^f Marshall &c. In dogs the same fact was remarked by Dr. Gillman (p. 13, 31, 44). Sometime., how- ever, according to this last author, no vestiges of inflamnintion nor any other morbid appearances are discoverable in the examination of animals thai have died of rabies (p. 83). Dupuytren is stated to have found the mucous membrane of the stomach and bowels inflamed in small places, and even nlmos gangrenous. (Did. des Sciences Mid t vlvif P.9 .) By M. Ribes the gall bladdi was fo, "ci empty, the mucous coat of the stomach, jejunum