148 ANEURISM, pons layers, and externally by the pleura or pe- ritoneum, oppose for a long while the fatal effusion of blood. Scarpa believes, that what he calls the chronic steatomatous, squamous degeneration of the artery, is more frequently the cause of its bursting than violent exertions of the whole body, blows, or an increased impulse of the heart. This kind of dis- eased change is very common in the curvature, and in the thoracic and abdominal trunks of the aorta. In the incipient state of such disease, the internal coat of the artery, loses for a certain space, its beautiful smoothness, and becomes irre- gular and wrinkled. ■ It afterwards appears inter- spersed with yellow spots, which are converted into grains, or earthy scales, or into steatomatous and cheese-like concretions, which render the in- ternal coat of the artery brittle, and so slightly united to the adjoining muscular coat, that, upon being merely scratched with the knife, or pbint of the nail, pieces are readily detached from it, and, on being cut, it gives a crackling sound, similar to the breaking of an egg-shell. This ossification cannot be said to be proper to old age, since it is sometimes met with in subjects not much advanced in life. The whole of the side of the artery, in that portion which is occupied by the morbid atfection, is, for the most part, hard and rigid, sometimes soft and fungous ; and, in most cases, the canal of the artery is preternaturally constricted. In the highest degree of this morbid disorganisation, true ulcerations are found on the inside of the artery, with hard and fringed edges, fissures, and lacera- tions of the internal and fibrous coats of the arter}% Having presented the reader with an abridged account o"f the most important remarks made by Scarpa in support of the doctrine he defends, I now annex his conclusions. 1. That aneurism is invariably formed by the rupture of the proper coats of the artery. 2. That the aneurismal sac is never formed by a dilatation of the proper coats of the artery, but, undoubtedly, by the cellular sheath, which the artery receives in common with the parts contiguous to it ; over which cellular sheath the pleura is placed in the thorax, and the peritoneum in the abdomen. 3. That if the aorta, immediately above the heart, appears sometimes increased beyond its natural diameter, this is not common to all the rest of the artery : and when the aorta, in the vicinity of the heart, yields to a dilat- ation greater than natural, this dilatation does not constitute, properly speaking, the essence of the aneurism. 4. Tiiat there are none of those marks regarded by medical men as characteristic of aneu- rism from dilatation, which may not be met with in .aneurism from rupture, including even the cu- cumscribed figure of the tumor. 5. That the distinction of aneurism into true and spurious, adopted in the schools, is only the production of a false theory ; since observation shows, that there is only one form of the disease, or that caused by a rupture of the proper coats of the nrterj^, and an effusion of arterial blood into the cellular sheath, which surrounds the ruptured artery. Such were the inferences made by Scarpa, in 180'1, one of the most distinguished anatomists and surgeons of his time. Great as liis authority was, several eminent modern surgeons, as Ilicherand, Eoyer, Dubois, Dupuytren, Sabatier, Breschct, &c. did not yield to it, but still contended that, in some aneurisms, the coats of tlie artery were dilated. These professors in France coincided with what has been usually taught upon this sub- ject in the surgical schools of Great Britain. Every lecturer here has been accustomed to de- scribe the distinctions of aneurisms into true and false, or into some cases which are accompanied with dilatation, and into others which are at- tended with rupture of the arterial coats. Many years ago, Mr. Hodgson, of Birmingham, pub- lished a valuable treatise, in whicli he differs from Scarpa, and joins those surgical writers who be- lieve in the occasional dilatation of the coats of the arteries in this disease. He inquires, " Is every aneurism produced by a destruction of the internal and middle coats of the vessel ? and does not a partial dilatation of these coats occasionally precede, and give rise to, their destruction ? I be- lieve that this is frequently the case. We have seen, that the disorganisation of the coats of an artery, by destroying their natural elasticity, will give rise to permanent dilatation of the whole cir- cumference of the vessel ; and there is every rea- son to expect, that a loss of its elasticity in a portion only of the diameter of the vessel, will give rise to a partial dilatation of its coats. Indeed, the proofs of a partial dilatation of the coats of an artery, particularly of the aorta, are incontestably established by the possibility of tracing the coats of the vessel throughout the whole extent of the expansion, and by the existence of those morbid appearances in the sac which are peculiar to the coats of the arteries. "In the year 1811 (says Mr. Hodgson), I dissected an aneurism of the aorta, which was re- moved from the body of a young woman, by my friend, Dr. Farre. Tlie sac was as large as a small melon, and had proved fatal by bursting into the posterior mediastinum, and subsequently into the cavity of the thorax. This aorta exhibited the formation of aneurism by partial dilatation in three distinct stages. Tlie internal coat was throughout inflamed, and presented a fleshy and irregular appearance. At the arch of the aorta, there was a dilatation not larger than the half of a small pea. About two inches lower in the same vessel was a second dilatation, which would have contained hazel nut; and immediately above the diaphragm was the large aneurism which had proved fatal. I removed that portion of the vessel which con- tained the smallest dilatation, and macerated it until its coats could be separated without violence. I found that the dilatation existed equally in the three coats of the vessel, and, when separated each presented the appearance of a minute aneu- rism. The second dilatation exhibited the same circumstances in a more advanced stage. The coats of the vessels were more intimately ad- herent to each other than in a natural state, but, it was evident that the dilatation consisted m a dilatation of the internal, the middle, and the_ex- ternal coats of the aorta. In the large aneurism, the disorganised internal and middle coats could be traced for some distance into the sac, when the parts contained in the posterior mediastinum, and the vertebra;, formed the remainder of the cyst. There can be little doubt that this sac commenced in a dilatation of the coats of the vessel, similar to those appearances which existed in the superior portion of the dissection, and the artery appeared to illustrate the formation of aneurism by partial dilatation in three distinct stages." {Ho<iai>on,