AMPUTATION. [Amputation of -the Phalanges of the i Thumb. ] [Amputation of the last phalanx vvill not need a special description. In amputation of both phalanges from the meta- carpal hone, it should be remcmbereil that here the head of the metacarpal bone is of a somewhat square shape, and broader than in the fingers. It ■will require, therefore, a larger covering to be left for it. This amputation may be done by lateral flaps, or by the oval incision, as in the fingers ; but, per- haps, the best operation is that by an elliptical in- cision, as recommended by M. Malgaigne. He makes a dorsal incision convex wpwards, the middle part of which passes a little above the level of the articular interspace, while its extremities terminate at each side at the commencement of the palmar cutaneous fold. The thumb being now forcibly extended, he makes on the palmar aspect a second incision convex dotvnwards, which, joining at each side the extremities of the first, descends by its middle part as low as midway between the cuta- neous fold, above referred to, and the fold which corresponds to the interphalangeal articulation. (Op. cit. p. 282.) The result is a palmar flap which, when it is applied over the end of the bone, has a convex edge, corresponding exactly with the con- cavity of the dorsal portion of the incision. M. Malgaigne prefers this mode of proceeding because it leaves the cicatrix well out of the way of injury from hard substances held in the hand. He re- moves at the same time tiie two sesamoid bones ; but the reason for so doing, unless they happen to be implicated in the disease or injury which neces- sitates the operation, is not sufficiently apparent. If the anterior extremity of the metacarpal bone were diseased or injured, it might be removed with the cutting pliers; but if sound, it should always be allowed to remain.] Amputation of the Thumb at the Articu- lation BETWEEN the METACARPAL BoNE AND THE Os Trapezium. The metacarpal bone is almost subcutaneous at its posterior and external aspect, but covered by a thick mass of muscle on the side towards the palm. The articulation will be found about an inch below the styloid process of the radius ; its direction is oblique, corresponding to a line, which, if carried far enough, would cross the root of the little finger. It has a loose capsule, which may be opened with great facility from its posterior and external surface. Upon this surface lie the tendons of the two first extensors of the thumb. The radial artery runs over its ulnar side on its way to the palm to form the deep palmar arch. The place of the joint i.s readily determined by passing the finger along the dorsal aspect or the sides of the metacarpal bone, from before backwards, for it is situated immedi- ately behind the first bony tubercle. (See Felpeau, op. cit. p. 390.) 1st Method, by External Flap. — While the thumb is held in the position of abduction, the knife is applied to the middle of the commissure; an incision is made at once down to the carpus, di- viding all the soft parts between the metacarpal bones of the thumb and forefinger, and terminating against the ulnar side of the articulation. This is to be opened by cutting outwards, the fibrous tex- tures being divided ratlier with the point than with the blade, so as not to mangle the skin; the thumb may now be dislocated, and a flap formed from be- hind forwards, by carrying the knife close to the outer side of the bone as far as a few lines beyond the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. If the radial ar- tery has been wounded, it will require a ligjiture; but if not, bringing the flap accurately over the wound will most probably stop the bleeding. The edges should be maintained in apposition by two or three sutures and adhesive plaster, and contact of the surface of the flap with the parts beneath should also be secured by a compress and bandage. The operative procedure may be reversed as follows :— An assistant takes hold of the thumb, while the surgeon takes as much of the soft parts as possible with the fingers of his left hand, and draws them outwards. The latter then transfixes them with a straight narrow knife from behind forwards, or to- wards the palm, directing the blade close to the I'adial side of the articulation. A flap is then formed; and while this is held up by the assistant, the surgeon takes hold of the thumb, cuts through the joint from without inwards, luxates the bone, and with the knife cuts through the middle of the commissure. This method leads to the same result as the former, but, being more difficult, ought not to be preferred. '2nd, or Oval Method. — The incision is com- menced upon the os trapezium, a little above the articulation, and is carried on the back of the thumb downwards, and to the ulnar side as far as the digital commissure; it should now pass round to the palmar surface of the thumb, and ascend obliquely on the radial side of the bone towards the original incision, which it should join about half an inch in front of its commencement. The point of the knife is next introduced into the articula- tion, which is cut through from its dorsal towards its palmar boundary. All that now remains to be done is to detach the bone from any fibres which may yet adhere to it, by carrying the knife in front of it from behind forwards. The wound, when brought together, represents a straight line, and is mnch less extensive than by the first method, which leaves a cicatrix on both aspects of the hand. 3rd A/rf/iorf.—Velpeau has frequently amputated the thumb in the following manner:—An incision is made along the back of the thumb from the sty- loid process of the radius to the commissure of the thumb and forefinger. This divides the integu- ments, the tendon of the long extensor, and a por- tion of the first interosseous muscle, so as to expose the joint. While an assistant holds aside the edges of the wound, the surgeon opens the capsule and dislocates the bone, which is then removed, care being taken to preserve as much of the flesh on the palmar side as will be required to close the wound immediately. Thus the palm of the hand is not at all wounded. (Op. cit. p. 392.) Amputation of the Little Finger toge- ther WITH THE whole OF ITS METACARPAL Bone. [The articulation of the fifth metacarpal bone ; with the OS unciforme is situated nearly an mch and a half below the styloid process of the idiia. Its direction is oblique, corresponding to a line, which, if prolonged, would cross the centre of the i metacarpal bone of the forefinger. Ampulation may be performed here, as in the thumb, either by a flap or by an oval incision. ^