DISLOC Dislocations in general cannot be reduced with- out trouble ; but, after the reduction ia accom- jilishcd, it 13 easily maintained. On the contrary, I'ructures are for the most part easy of reduction ; hut cannot be kept in this desirable state without difficulty. The moment extension is remitted, the muscles act, the ends of the broken bone slip out of their proper situation with respect to each other, and the distortion of the limb recurs. As a modern writer has observed, the reduction is only a small part of the treatment of fi-actures : the most essen- tial point of it is the almost daily care which a fracture demands, during the whole time requisite for its consolidation. The contrary is the case in luxations. Mere, in fact, the reduction is every thing, if we put out of consideration the less fre- quent cases, in which the dislocation is compli- cated, and attended with such grave circumstances, as render it indispensably necessary to continue for a length of time the utmost surgical care. But, even then, the protracted treatment is less for the dislocation itself, than for the extraordinary cir- cumstances with which it is accompanied. (See Roux, Parallele de la Chiriirgie Anglaise avec la CIdriirgie Franqaise, p. 207.) All the ancient writers recommend the extend- ing force to be applied to the luxated bone ; for instance, above the knee in dislocations of the thigh-bone, and above the elbow in those of the humerus. We have stated, that Pott advised this plan, and the same practice which is approved by J. L. Petit, Duverney, and Callisen, is generally adopted in this country. However, many of the best modern surgeons in France, for instance, Fabre, D'Apouj', Desault, Boyer, Richerand, Leveille', and Dupuytren, advise the extending force not to be applied on the lux- ated bone, but, on that with which it is articulated, and as far as possible from it. It is said, that this plan has two most important advantages:—first. The muscles, which surround the dislocated bone, are not compressed, nor stimulated to spasmodic contractions, which would resist the reduction ; secondly, The extending force is much more con- siderable than in the other mode ; for, by using a long lever we obtain a greater degree of power. In Pott's remarks, we find even him influenced against the latter practice, by the supposition that part of the extending force is lost on the joint, in- tervening between the dislocation, and the point at which the extension is made ; a notion quite unfounded, as every man who reflects for one moment must soon perceive. Wiien extension is made at the wrist, the ligaments, muscles, &c. wliich connect ti)e bones of the forearm with the OS brachii, have the whole of the extending force operating on them, and they must obviously trans- mit the same degree of extension, which they receive, to the bone above, to which they are attached. Indeed, this matter seems so plain, that I think it would be an insult to the reader's under- standing to say any more cabout it, than that such eminent surgeons, as have contrary sentiments, can never have taken the trouble to reflect for them- selves on this particular subject. Whether the force necessary to be exerted in some instances, •would have a bad effect on tlie intervening joint, may yet be a question ; but, as Desault's and Du- puytren's practice was extensive, and they did not nnd any objection of this kind, we have" no right to conclude that such would exist. lTION. If, however, the common objection to Desault'.s plan of applying the extending force be unfounded, the question still remains to be settled, whether this practice is most advantageous on the ground.i above specified. This is a point, which, perhaps, cannot be at once peremptorily decided altogether in the negative, or the affirmative, since what may behest in one kind of dislocation, may not be so in another. Thus, Sir A. Cooper states, that, so far as ho has had an opportunity of oBserving, it is generally best to apply the extension to the bone which is dislocated: but, that dislocations of the shoulder are exceptions, in which he mostly prefers to reduce the head of the bone by placing his heel in the axilla, and drawing the arm at the wrist, in a line with the side of the bod}', whereby the pec- toralis major and latissimus dorsi are kept in a re- laxed state. {Surgical Essays, part i. p. 25.) ^ Extension may either be made by means of as- sistants, who are to take hold of a napkin, table- cloth, or sheet, folded longitudinallj', and put round the part at which it is judged proper to make the extension; or else a multiplied pulley may be used. In cases of difficulty. Sir A. Coope'r deems the pulley preferable. " When assistants are employed, their exertions are sudden, violent, and often ill-directed, and the force is more likely to produce laceration of parts, than to restore the bone to its situation. Their efforts are also often un- combined, and their muscles are necessarily as fati- gued as those of the patient whose resistance they are employed to overcome." In dislocations of the hip-joint, and in those of the shoulder which have been long unreduced, pulleys should always be employed. {Surgical Essays, part i. p. 24.) But, whether pulleys be used or not, nothing more need be added to what Mr. Pott has stated, concerning the propriety of using moderate force in the first instance, and increasing the extending power very graduallj'. In order to measure the force used in the ex- tension with pulleys, M. Malgaigne has invented and repeatedly used an instrument, termed a dyna- mometer. Mr. Weiss was kind enough to show me, some time ago, one which he has constructed ; and Mr. Crosse informs us, that he has procured one, which seems to answer ever\' purpose. The extension should always be first made in the same direction in which the dislocated bone is thrown; but, in proportion as the nmscles yield, the bone is to be gradually brought back into its natural position. Thus the head of tlie bone be- comes disengaged from the parts, among which it has been placed, and is brought back to tlie articular cavity again by being made to follow the same course wliich it took in escaping from it. Extension will prove quite unavailing, unless the bone, with which the dislocated head is natu- rally articulated, be kept motionless by conntcr- eaiensioH, or a force at least equal to the other, but made in a contrary direction. The mode of fixing the scapula and pelvis, in luxations of the shoulder and thigh, will be here- after described. In partial dislocations of ginglymoid joints, ex- tension and counter-extension are often made for the purpose of diminishing the friction of the sur- faces of the joints, so that the reduction may be rendered more eas}'. When the attempts at reduction fnil, tlie want oi success may be owing to tlie extension not being