DISLOCATION, {On 521 the costal surface of the neck of the scapula. [ Fraclures and Dislocations, p. i 78.) Fractures of the anatomical neck, or of the sur- gical neck of the humerus, and fractures of the neck of the scapula, are injuries which might possibly be mistaken for dislocations of the shoulder ; and further remarks on their diagnosis will be found in the article Fractures.] Baron Diipuytren used to believe, that the elon- gation of the limb only occurred in the dislocation downwards below the glenoid cavity ; but, in con- sequence of the researches of M. Malgaigiie, and experiments made by himself, he was induced to alter his opinion on this point. M. Malgaigne ob- served, that, since the bead of the humerus, when in its natural situation, occupies the concavity of an arch,- formed by the acromion, the coracoid process, and the coraco-acromial ligament, it must evidently be upon a lower level, whether under one or the other pillar of this arch. In a shoulder joint, the ligaments of which had been recently dissected, Dupuytren dislocated the head of the humerus under the coracoid process, and ascertained by a careful measurement, that the arm was lengthened about half an inch. (Dupuylren, Clin. Chir. t. iii. p. .93.) [The elongation of the arm will doubtless be greater, according as the bone is displaced more di- rectly downwards from the glenoid cavity; while it will become less evident in proportion as it passes obliquely forwards and inwards as well as downwards, for then, although the head of the bone may be beneath the coracoid process, and therefore necessarily below its natural level, the elongation may be compensated for (supposing the measure- ment to Tie taken, as it usually is, from the point of the acromion to the external condyle) by the oblique direction inwards which the shaft of the humerus acquires. To insure a correct measurement, it is important, as M. Malgaigne observes, to take care that the two elbows are equally separated from the side, for the separation from the side of course approximates the condyle to the acromion. It is necessary also that the two acromions should be on the same level, and the inferior angle and spinal border of the two scapulse equidistant from the spine.] iJis'icdion of the Dislocation downioards.~ In all primitive dislocations from violence, and not from paralysis of t'le deltoid, and a gradual yielding of the capsule, I believe the latter part is always extensively lacerated. In general, authors have paid too little attention to this circumstance, which dissections have repeatedly demonstrated. Uesault had two specimens of it imitated in wax ; one was in a dislocation inward; the other in a dislocation downward ; both of which wore met with in subjects who died at the Hotel Dieu. Bell also mentions similar facts ; and another English surgeon, says Bichat, has observed tlie same occurrence. I suppose Bichat here alludes to Mr. Thompson, who long ago noticed the lace- ration of the capsule. (See Med. Ob. and fm/.} Desault conceives, that the capsule may be suf- ficiently torn to let the head of the bone escape; but that the opening may afterwards form a kiiul of constriction roimd the neck of the humeru.<i, bo as to prevent the return of the head of the bnne into the place which it originally occupied. The correctness of this statement, however, is positivelv denied liy Sir A. Cooper, who remarks that they who entertain this belief, must forget the inelastic structure of the capsular ligament, and never have witnessed by dissection the extensive laceration which it suffers in dislocations from violence. {Surgical Essays, part i. p. 18.) 1 believe that the observation of Mr. Crampton is correct, that at the period when Mr. Hey pub- lished the second edition of his Practical Observ- - ations on Swrgery, in 1810, there was but one case on record, in which the actual state of the joint, in a recent dislocation of the shoulder, had been described and delineated. {Case by H. Thompson, m Med. Obs. and Inq. vol. ii. 1761.) Indeed, in this example, eighteen days had elapsed between the reception of the injury and the post mortem examination of the joint. In 1782, Pro- fessor Bonn gave the anatomy of several cases of unreduced dislocation of the humerus, but the most recent was of two years' standing. {Comm. de Humero Luxato; Ph. Crampton, in Dublin Journ. of Med. Science, vol. iii. p. 43.) Hey once saw a compound dislocation of the os humeri, the; • head of the bone being pushed through the in- . teguments in the axilla; and, in that case, the ■ long tendon of the biceps was torn from its groove • and the tendons of the supra-spinatus and infra- spinatus separated from the bone, a large shell of which was also torn off. (See Hey''s Surgery, p. SU, ed. 2.) Mr. H. Thompson's dissection is remarkable, as being the oldest on record, and the identical parts are now preserved in University College museum. The tendon of the long head of the biceps was found violently stretched. The head of the bone was lodged at the inner side of the neck of the scapula, below the root of the coracoid process, between the sub-scapularis and serratus magnus. A portion of the iuimerus, including the greater tubercle, was broken off: and, of course, the supra-spinatu?, infra-spinatus, and teres mmor, were detached. Tiie sub-scapularis was also torn from its attachment to the lesser tubercle; but both this muscle and the teres minor retained a connection with the periosteum and bone through their external fibres. The neck of the humerus was embraced behind by the sub- scapularis, and in front by the teres minor. Thompson suspected, that, in some cases, this might make a difficulty in the reduction; and hence, he was an advocate for raising the' arm and turning it inwards, so as to relax the sub- scapularis. He also suspected, that the tendency to a return of the dislocation, sometimes exem- plified, might depend on the extensive laceration of the capsular ligament, and the teres minor and subscapularis muscles. (See Med. Obs. and Inn voh ii. 1701.) Sir Astley Cooper dissected two cases of recent dislocation downwards. In one on removing the integuments, a quantity of extrava- sated blood presented itself in the subcutaneous cellular tissue and that covering the axillary plexus of nerves, as well as between the muscles. The axillary artery and plexus of nerves were thrown out of their course by the dislocated head of the bone, which was pushed backwards upon the sub .scapularis muscle. The deltoid was drawn down by the displaced bone. The supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus were stretched over the glenoid cavity and inferior costa of the scapula. The teres maior and minor had undergone but little change of position. The coraco bracliialis was uninjured. In the space between the axillary plexus and