24 ■ AMAUROSIS. chonclrlasis, convulsions, or epilepsj'. Periodical amaurosis, after remaining nncnred a certain time, ol'ten becomes permanent. {Beer, Lelire, S{c. b. ii. p. 429.) Day-blindness (Coeciias Diurna ; Nyclalo}iia) and night blindness (Coecitas Crepusculims; Hemera- lopia) are nothing more than cases of periodical amaurosis. Genuine uncomplicated amaurosis, consisting of a mere diminution or loss of sight, without the ap- pearance of any other defect, is one of the most imcomraon forms of the complaint. In it, merely the vital properties of the optic nerve and retina are affected, and, after death, nothing preternatural can be traced in these parts. This simple unmixed foim of amaurosis is sub- divided by Beer into that amaurotic weakness of sight, or blindness, which depends upon the sensi- bility of the optic nerve and retina being too highly raised, and into another case, the proximate cause of which is peculiarly and entirely referrible to depression of such sensibilit}-. The first example is much less common than the second. Mr. Law- rence conceives, however, that they who divide amaurosis into two kinds, thai Willi increased, and that with diminished sensibility of the retina, enu- merate as symptoms of the former various kinds of impaired vision, some of which rather denote the period of excitement in disease of the retina, than the more advanced stage, ordinarily designated as amaurosis. {On Bis. of the Eye, ed. 3, p. 525.) With reference to some amaurotic patients, who are annoyed by the bright light of day, Mr. _Mid- dlemore also observes, that it would seem as if the sensibility of the retina were increased, although the power of vision is greatly diminished ; but, he adds, this is usually nothing more than an early symptom of only some few varieties of amaurosis ; it does not continue so as to constitute one of its latter svmptoras. {On Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 267.) Amaurosis, then, either occurs in the form of a simple uncomplicated afifection as we have de- scribed it above, or, which is more frequently the case, the disease is co-existent with other disi;ased appearances either in the eye, its vicinity, or some other organs at a distance from the eye, or m the general constitution. These appearances merit the most earnest consideration, because they arc for the most part connected with the cause of amauro- sis. According to this statement, then, there is a genuine local amaurosis, and a complicated anwmro- sis, which last may be either local or general, or of both descriptions together, and therefore named by "Bsev, perfectly complicated. (Vol. cit. p. 431.) To the local complications, saj-s Beer, belong cataract; glaucoma ; a general varicose state of the eyeball {cirsoplitliabnia); exophthalmia; atrophy of the eye; spasms in the organ and surrounding parts; paralysis of one or more muscles of the ej^e {ophthalmoplegia); paralysis of the eyelids ; oph- thalmia in general, and internal ophthalmia in particular ; a scorbutic bloodshot appearance of the cye{Hyperaimia Scorbtdicmi); and, linally, wounds or contusions of the eye, or adjacent parts. Witli these cases should also be mentioned that nnport- ant disease, fungus htematodes of the eye. From this simple enumeration of local comphcatimis, one may see how frequently amaurosis is only a symp- • toniatic effect of another disorder of the eye, with which it is conjoined, and iiow often it is con- nected with the same common causes, which per- tain to another or several other diseases of the eye. Amongst the general complications, Beer enu- merates those which are purely nervous: impair- ment of the health in various forms by infection, contagion, or miasmata; a bad habit of body; typhoid fevers, the amaurotic elTect of which upon the eye the author of this work has frequently noticed; asthma; hydrocephalus; organic defects of the abdominal viscera ; worms ; chlorosis ; con- sumption; old ulcers of the legs ; organic disease of the brain and skull; complaints arising from pregnancy; hemorrhage, &c. In these general complications, the casual connection between amaurosis and some remote disease of another organ, or of the whole constitution, cannot be mis- taken ; and we often see the disease of some other part distant from the eye suddenly or gradually diminish, and immediately appear again as a sj^ra- pathetic action in the form of amaurosis, of which the most remarkable instance presents itself after the sudden healing of old ulcers of the legs. {Beer, Lelire von den Aiigenh: b. ii. p. 433.) Mr. Travers divides amaurotic affections into two classes, the organic and the functional. The first comprehends alterations, however induced, in the texture or position of the retina, optic nerve,.or thalamus. The second includes suspension or loss of function of the retina and optic organ, depend- ing upon a change either in the action of the ves- sels, or in the tone of the sentient apparatus. As causes of organic amaurosis, this author enu- merates : 1. Lesion, extravasation of blood, inflam- matory deposition upon either of its surfaces, and loss of transparency of the retina. 2. Morbid growths within the eyeball, dropsj-, atrophy, and all such disorganisations as directly press upon, or derange the texture of the retina. 3. Apoplexy, hydrocephalus, tumours or abscesses in the brain, or in or upon the optic nerve or its sheath, and thick- ening, atrophy, absorption, or ossification of the latter. As causes of functional amaurosis, Mr. Travers specifies : I. Temporary determination ; vascular congestion, or vacuity, as from visceral or cerebral irritation ; suppressed, or deranged, or ex- cessive secretions, as of the liver, kidneys, uterus mammsB, and testes ; various forms ot injury and disease ; and hidden translations of remote morbid actions. 2. Paralysis idiopathica, suspension or exhaustion of sensorial power from various consti- tutional and local causes ; from undue excitement or exertion of the visual faculty ; and from tlie de- leterious action of poisons on the nervous system, as lead, mercury, &c. From this description, says Mr Travers, it will be understood, that organic and manv forms of functional amaurosis are incur- able ; and the functional, by continuance, lapses into the organic disease. Functional amaurosis is subdivided by Mr. 1 ra- vers into. 1st, the Sympiomatic, or that which is only a symptom of some general disease, or dis- order of the system ; as, for example, I'lethor.n, or debility : I'ndly, the Metastatic, or that produced bj the sudden t/anslation of the n'°>-^''l^=;f another organ of the body ; as for ^^^'^^l''' the skin, the testicle, &c. 3rdly, ih^ Proper, or that which depends upon a peculiar condition of the retina; as, for example, the visus nebulosus, muscaj volitantcs. {Synopsis, f-^'^^'—^^'^-) _ Mr. Lawrence does not consider the expression functional amaurosis to be of any practical utility ;