660 EYE. 0/ irritaHon to the organ incidentalli/ talies place. And as it frequently happens, even in healthy, strong individuals, that ophthalmia is occasioned by foreign bod es, either lodged under the eye- balls, or inserted in some part of the eyeball, and not suspected to be there, the earliest attention should always be paid to their gentle and skilful removal. Easy as this object is of accomplish- ment, when not delayed, when the eye has not been seriously irritated by friction and pressure, and the patient is not of a weak, irritable consti- tution, it is often attended with great difficulty under one or the other of these circumstances, especially the last. In this case, strong convulsive rotations of the eyeball, followed by a violent and obstinate^ spasmodic closure of the eyelids, render it impossible to separate them; and the spasm is the stronger and more lasting, the more the extra- neous substances are calculated, by their shape and chemical qualitj-, to irritate the eye; and the greater the irritability of the patient is. In this state of things, every attempt forcibly to open the eye, or to examine it in the light, is not only use- less, but increases and keeps up the spasm, which nothing will lessen and shorten except darkness and perfect repose. But, as timid, irritable persons are exceedingly apprehensive of the consequences of the lodgment of extraneous substances in the eye, the surgeon should endeavour to lessen their inquietude, by assuring them that every thing will be right again, which is strictly true when the foreign bodies are of the first class. Then the spasmodic closure of the ej'elids will cease, and the extraneous substance admit of being properly taken away. _ Success, however, does not always attend this simple method; for, in very weak subjects, the spasm of the orbicularis palpebrarum is so violent and obstinate, especially when a foreign body lodges in the eye, and at the same time mechani- cally and chemically irritates it (as is the case witli particles of snuff), that it becomes indispen- sable to have recourse to medicinal applications. For this purpose Beer's experience has convinced him, that tlie best thing is a bread poultice, made either with milk or water, and containing some of the vinous tincture of opium. Care is to be taken, however, never to let it become quite cold during its application; for then the spasm would only be aggravated by it; and if such spasm has been of long continuance when the surgeon is first sent for, the poultice, according to Beer, may be ren- dered more efficacious by the addition of hyos- cyarrius to it. In irritable, hysterical, and hypo- chondriacal persons, such local treatment alone is frequently insufficient, and recourse nnist be had to the internal exhibition of antispasmodic ano- dyne medicines. At length, when the spasm of the orbicular muscle is so far diminished that the eyelids c:in be eftectually opened without any force for the extraction of "the foreign body, great caution and gentleness will yet be necessar}--, and, m particular, the eye shoiild be kept in a very moderate light, as the spasm would be imme- Hiately excited again, either by sudden exposure ot the eye to too much light, or rough handling of the eyelids. . Sometimes a person rubs his eye at first awak- '"g ni the morning, and if the eyelashes are \cvy numerous and rip:id, one of tlu-m will lodge be- tween the eyeball and lower eyelid : it may rea- dily be taken away with the end of a fine moist sponge, or camel-hair pencil, the eyelid being depressed as much as possible, and the eye itself turned upward, so that the hair may not be con- cealed in the fold of the conjunctiva. When the hair is situated under the upper eyelid (which Beer says rarely happens), it always lodges in the fold of the preceding membrane, whence it may be extracted in the manner above directed, Avith the difference that the eyelid must be raised or everted and the eye rotated downwards. (Zc/ire von den Kranlch. b. i. pp. 128—130.) Small globular smooth extraneous bodies, lodged under the eyelids, are very easily extracted, when the eyelid is gently taken hold of both by its edge and the eyelashes, and lifted up from the eye, while the patient inclines his head forwards, and the eye is turned completely downwards: the effusion of tears, excited by these manoeuvres, will now generally wash these extraneous sub- stances out of the eye, as they are not at all fixed. When the fissure between the eyelids is wide and open, but the eyeball at the same time very pro- minent, the object may also be easily accom- plished, when the upper eyelid is gently and repeatedly stroked with the finger from the outer towards the inner canthus; in which case, the round smooth foreign body soon makes its appear- ance above the caruncula lachrymalis, whence it falls out of itself, or may be taken with the corner of a pocket-handkerchief. The worst cases are those in which the eyes are very prominent, and the fissure of the eyelids small, as all the above methods are then useless, and only productive of irritation. In this circum- stance, the eyelid is to be simply everted by tak- ing hold of the- ciliae, and drawing them forward and upward, while a probe is used for pressing back the upper portion of the tarsus. The foreign body may then be plainly seen, and easily removed. Particles of common dust, and of sand and powders thrown over letters, which frequently get into the ej'es of persons who open their letters carelessly, or, from short-sightedness, are obliged to bring them close to the nose, are generally more difficult of extraction. In the attempt, however, the eye must never be subjected to too much irritation. According to Beer, these extra- neous particles of dust, or sand, may sometimes be removed by washing the eye well, or bj' drop- ing into it milk, or some other viscid fluid, while the patient lies upon his back, and the ej'elid is lifted up from the eye. But, the most expeditious and certain plan is to employ a syringe, the pipe of which is to be introduced under the upper eye- lid near the outer canthus, and the fiuid thrown briskly in the direction towards the nose. If all the extraneous matter cannot be thus removed, the rest may sometimes be taken out, if the eyelid be everted in the manner above directed, which seems to me the right method to be adopted in several cases, for which Beer recommends other proceedings. ■\Vhen particles of sugar, or other soluble, not very irritating substances, hap])en to insinuate themselves into the eye, professional aid is seldom requisite, as they generally dissolve in the tears, and are voided before a surgeon can arrive. Snuff, pepper, and other minute irritating bodies, as well iis small winged insects, are to be removed in the same manner as paitides of dust and letter-sand;