1. Differences of Fractures. The differences of fractures depend upon what bone is broken ; what portion of it is fractured ; the direction of the fracture ; the respective posi- tion of the fragments ; and, lastly, upon circum- stances accompanying the injury, and making it simple, compound, or variously complicated. 1. /« respect to the lone affected. Sometimes it is one of the broad bones, as the scapula, the sternum, or the os ilium. Sometimes it is a short bone, like tlie os calcis ; but far more com- monly it is one of the long bones. The situa- tion and functions of the broad bones render their fractures unfrequent. The bones of the skull are the only exception to this remark ; but here the assistance of the surgeon is required less for the solution of continuity itself, than for the affection of the brain, and the extravasation of blood, with which the case is apt to be combined. Fractures of the short bones are still more unusual, because these bones, being nearly equal in their three dimensions, are capable of greater resistance, and are not much within the reach of external vio- lence. Besides, most of them are but little exposed to the operation of outward force, by their situation, or functions. Hence, except when limbs are crushed, fractures of short bones are generally caused by muscular action, which frequently breaks the patella, and sometimes the olecranon, and os calcis. The long bones, which serve as pillars, or arches of support, or levers, are, from the very nature of their functions, par- ticularly liable to fractures. 2. In respect to the paH of the lone Irolcen. The long bones may be fractured at different points. Very often their middle portion is broken, and, in this circumstance, they usually break like a stick, which has been bent beyond its ex- tensibility by a force applied at each end of it. Sometimes the fracture occurs more or less near the extremities of the bone, which is always an unfavourable event. Lastly, the bone is some- times broken in several places, and the injury may be produced by two different causes, which ope- rate successively, or simultaneously, upon the broken parts of the bone ; or it may be occasioned by one single cause, which acts at the same mo- ment upon several points of it. Those distinctions of fractures, deduced from their particular situation (says Boyer), are not mere scholastic refinements; they have a truly important influence over the prognosis and treatment. 3. In respect to the direction in iiihich the hone is Irnken. Thus, fractures are distinguished into transverse and oblique. The obliquity renders the surface of the injury larger, and materially increases the difficulty of maintaining the ends of the bone in contact, after the fracture has been get. Oblique fractures arc subject to considerable variety, which depends upon the degree of their obliquity, and wliether they are partly oblique and partly transverse. When a bono is broken in different places at once, and divided into several fragments, or splinters, the fracture is termed comiiiinuled. Duverncy admitted another class of fractures, viz. lonnitiidinal. (See Maladies des Os, t. 1. p. 167.) Such cases were regarded by J. L, Petit as only imaginary, because ho conceived tliat any blow, capable of breaking a bone longitudinally, rURE. 679 would more readily cause a transverse fracture. For the same reason, Louis absolutely rejected the possibility of longitudinal fractures. The following case, however, is related by Le- veilM, An Austrian soldier was put under his care in the year 1800, in consequence of being struck by a ball in the lower third of the leg at the battle of Marengo. He had walked to Pavia, a distance of several miles, after receiving the injury. In the end, amputation became necessary, and Leveille' preserved the tibia, upon which the impression of the ball was distinguishable. From this point proceeded several longitudinal and ob- lique lines, which extended from the lower third, towards the upper end of the tibia, and passed through the whole thickness of the parietes of the medullary canal. They were acknowledged to be really longitudinal fractures, by Dubois, Chau- frier, Dumeril, Deschamps, and Roux. {Nouvella Doctrine Chir. t. ii. p. IS8.) In several cases of fractured thigh-bones from gunshot violence, which were under the care of Dr. Cole and myself in Holland, the bone was split longitudinally to the extent of seven or eight inches. The fact, however, that bullets and other balls do produce longitudinal fractures, is now universally admitted. Boyer, who formerly denied the possibility of longitudinal frac- tures, was latterly of a different opinion : — On trouve neamnoins, a, la suite des plaies d''armes a feu, les os fendus suivant lew longueur, jusqiies dans leurs articulations,"—but he is cor- rect when he adds, that such instances afford no proof of the possibility of a simple longitudinal fracture. (See Maladies Chir. t. iii. p. 10.) M. J. Cloquet has recorded a case, in which the fall of a building buried a man in the ruins, and occa- sioned several longitudinal fractures. (See Pathol. Chir. 4to. Paris.) [Some other instances of purely longitudinal fractures, or fissures, are referred to by M. Mal- gaigne. They appear to be commonly associated with such serious injury to the limb as either to necessitate its removal or to cause the death of the patient. (See Traiie des Fract. S(a. t. i. p, 36.) Such a fracture is attended with little or no dis- placement, and is therefore scarcely recognisable during life, unless it happen to be accompanied by a wound which exposes it to view. Longitudinal fractures, however, combined with transverse or oblique fractures, are by no means uncommon ; thus, for instance, it often happens that the femur or the humerus is broken across in its lower third, and the inferior fnignicnt is split longi- tudinally into the knee or elbow joint.] 4. In regard to the respective position of the fragments. These dill'erencus are liighly import- ant, because the treatment essentially consists in obviating, or preventing, the displacement of the fragments. It is not to be supposed, however, that such displacement is a constant effect of nil fractures, for it seldom takes place where there arc two bones, and only one of them is broken. Neither docs it invariably happen in every fracture of the neck of a bono, as is exemplified in certain frac- tures of the neck of the thigh-bone, the fragments of which sometimes change their relative situation only wlicii the limb is too freely moved about. Fractures of the leg are also observed, in which there is neither a displacement of tlie fragments, nor an alteration in tlio shape of the limb, espe- X X 4