962 ■wards, fasciculi of which descend also below the abdominal ring. These are the fibres of the cremaster, which proceed within the ring trans- versely upwards over the spermatic cord, and are pushed out of that opening by the hernial sac. These arched fleshy fibres are not always, though generally, perceptible; and, when they are present on the fore part of the hernial sac, Heaselbach ac- counts them a sure criterion of an external scrotal hernia. 3. The spermatic cord passes behind the oblique hernia, and not on the outer side of it, as in a di- rect case. 4. The situation of the epigastric artery, and its displacement inwards by the neck of the sac, of an oblique hernia, have been sufficiently explained. 5. With respect to the mode in which the ob- lique hernia originates, the disease sometimes takes place suddenly, without any exciting cause being observed, cabable of accounting for the effect. Here, says Hesselbach, the predisposing cause must have heen great. In this quick manner, the congenital liernia, which is one of the oblique cases, frequently arises. The direct inguinal her- nia is observed mostly to take place very suddenly, yet only afcer violent occasional causes. Sir Astley Cooper records two cases from external violence : one in a gentleman vvho received a blow on the groin in riding ; the other in a boy, in con sequence of a kick from his schoolmaster. In th greater number of cases, he has found the direct inguinal hernia accompanied by diseases of the urethra. " One of the specimens ("says he) in my possession, contains six hernise of this kind." After death, several strictures were met with in th urethra, behind one of which a stone was impacted (On Abdominal Hernia, part i. p. 67.) In adults, an oblique inguinal or scrotal hernia, on the right side, contains generally some of thi ileum, and, when the swelling is large, it may in elude the ctecum, and sometimes a piece of omen- tum. In one child, ten weeks old, and in another still younger, the appendix vermiforinis was pro truded and connected by a natural band to the posterior side of the peritoneum. When, in these ruptures of the right side, the c£ecum, or in those of the left, the colon, are found closely connected ■with the hinder side of the hernial sac, the con nection is not to be looked upon as the effect of disease, since it is the perfectly natural relation of those bowels with the peritoneum. On the left side, the parts most commonly protruded are the colon and omen turn. With regard to the interned, or direct ingziinal liernia, the place of its first protrusion has been already described. The protruded peritoneum and viscera, according to Hesselbach's account, pass from (j>;hind straight forwards, between the fibres of what he names the internal inguinal liga- ment, and the fleshy fibres of the internal oblique muscle; they then pnss, at the inner side of the spermatic cord, out of the abdominal ring, where the hernia presents a circular globular swelling, suddenly formed in consequence of some violent effort. The neck of the hernial sac is very short; shorter than it can ever be in an oblique inguinal liernia; and, when the tumor is of the above shape, the passage through which it passes is annular, narrower in some instances than others, and its aargm is tendinous. Sir Astley Cooper has never known it acquire the HERNIA. enormous size which the oblique inguinal hernia sometimes attains. {On Ab- dominal Hernia, part i. p. 67.) From the few cases, which Hesselbach has seen of this form of the disease, he is also led to believe that the hernial snc is rarely so large as in the oblique inguinal hernia (p. 41). According to Sir Astley Cooper, the direct inguinal hernia occurs when the tendon of the transversalis is unnaturally weak, does not exist at all, or has been broken. (Ob Inguinal Hernia, p. 51.) Cloquet states, that the sac either propels before it, and thus receives a covering from the fascia transversalis, or passes through an open- ing in it. {Recherches Anat. p. 83.) In another work, he gives the particulars of a direct inguinal hernia of the right side, where the protrusion took place through a laceration in the fascia transversalis. (Pathologie Chirurgicale, p. 126.) Mr. Lawrence dissected a case, where the fascia was neither thin- ner than usual nor broken, but it had been pro- truded before the peritoneum, and formed a thick aponeurotic covering to the hernial sac. Mr. Stanley has always found it thus covered; and some specimens, illustrative of tlie fact, have been placed by him in the nmseum of St. Ba'-tholomew's Hospital. {On Ruptures, p. 209, 211, ed. 4.) According to Langenbeck, this is the usual state of the parts. {Comment. § 105, tab. 17, 18, & 19.) Examined by accurate dissection, the course of the direct ijiguinal hernia appears to Sir Astley Cooper to be as follows :—" The sac first appears between the fibres of the tendon of the transversalis, nearly an inch directly above the ring, generally pro- truding before it the fascia transversalis. It then passes under the lower edge of the tendon of the internal oblique muscle. The epigastric artery runs upon the outer side of the hernial sac. The spermatic cord has no connection with it above the ring. The hernia then emerges from the abdominal ring, the spermatic cord being on its outer side, and it is covered with the fascia given off by the ten- don of the external oblique {intercolumnarfascia,) hut not by the cremaster muscle.'" {On Abdominal Hernia, part i. p. 67, ed. 2.) There is some diver- sity in the descriptions given of the coverings of the direct inguinal hernia. In the dissection of a double scrotal hernia by Mr. Todd, where both protrusions were of the direct kind, " the cremaster muscle, on one side, was distinctly spread out on the fore part of the sac; while, on the other side, the character of the muscle was complete!}' lost." (See JDu'jlin Hospital Reports, vol. i. p. 231.) In a case described by M. Jules Cloquet, the cover- ings were besides the integuments and superficial fascia, 1. the intercolumnar fascia; 2. fleshy and aponeurotic fibres of the internal oblique muscle; 3. a thin fibro-cellular covering derived from the margin of a lacerated opening, in the fascia trans- versalis, by which the hernia had escaped; 4. the hernial sac itself. (See Jules Cloquet, Pathologic Chir. p. 126, 4to.) In general, if the hernia is at all covered by the cremaster, it can only be just at ts outer part, as represented in the plate in Sir Astley Cooper's great work. (Seep. 70, parti, ed. by Mr. C. Aston Keg.) There must necessaril)' be some variety in the number of coverings of this hernia, in different cases, according to the circum- stance of its being attended, or not, with a lacera- tion of the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. If weak, they may yield and form a covering. Sometimes, however, as already stated, the tendon of the transverse muscle