194 ANEURISM. The opening in the fascia, which lines the trans- verse muscle, through which the spermatic cord passes, is situated in the midspace between the an- terior superior spine of the ilium and the symphisis pubis. The epigastric artery runs precisely along the inner margin of this opening, beneath which the external iliac artery is situated. If the finger, therefore, be passed under the spermatic cord, through this opening in the fascia, it will come into immediate contact with the artery, which lies on the outside of the external iliac vein. The ar- tery and vein are connected together by dense cel- lular membrane, whicli must be separated to enable the operator to pass a ligature, by means of an aneurism needle, round the former." (See Hodg- son, On Diseases of Arteries, p. 421, 422.) The foregoing incision, the convexity of which is turned outward and downward, I think, should extend from within and a little above the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to above and a little within the middle part of Poupart's liga- ment, the exact point under which lies the internal rino-, behind which the external iliac artery is to be found. As soon as the tejidon of the external ob- lique muscle has been divided, the internal oblique and transverse muscles may be cautiously cut with the aid of a director ; and then the fascia transver- salis either divided in the same way, or torn through with the end of the scalpel or director. Care must be taken to avoid the epigastric artery, which runs from the pubic side of the external iliac to the inner side of the incision. Baron Dupiiytren, m performing the operation at the Hotel-Dieu, in 1821, wounded the epigastric artery. (See Ave- rilVs Operative Surgery, p. 37.) The hemorrhage was so copious, that two ligatures were required. The patient afterwards died of peritonitis, which, in all probability, was brought on by the disturb- ance of the parts in the proceedings requisite for securing the ends of the wounded vessel. Hence, in operating according to Sir A. Cooper's plan, after pushing upwards the lower border of the in- ternal oblique and transversalis, together with the spermatic cord, if the fascia transversalis is to be cut, and not torn, or if the inner ring, the opening in that fascia, is to be dilated, the requisite incision should be made with a probe-pointed bistoury in the direction towards the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and away from the epigastric artery Mr. Guthrie has seen the epigastric artery divided in this operation, and two ligatures placed upon it without any inconvenience occurring. When such practice is adopted, he rates the im- portance of the accident much lower than 1 am inclined to do; for he observes, " I have reason to know that this artery is made a greater bugbear of than there is any occasion for in all operations on these parts. If the surgeon has unluckily divided it, either in this or any other operation, all that he has to do is to enlarge the incision, and tie both the divided ends ; and I have no hesitation in saying, it will not be of any consequence, either in this operation, or one for hernia. If a man has been so unfortunate as to have a wound in his peritoneum, of a quarter or half an inch in extent, two ligatures on the epigastric artery, and a slight increase in the extent of the external incisions, add little or nothing to the danger, which only takes place in reality when the wound is closed up, and the artery is allowed to bleed internally." (Giilhrie, On Dis. of Arteries, p. 376.) While I approve of the practice of securing the two ends of the epigas- tric artery in a case of this description, the accom- plishment of it would not be so easy as the deli- very of the proper advice ; and where the perito- neum is cut, as in examples of hernia, blood would be likely to be effused in the cavity of the perito- neum before the ends of the vessel could be se- cured. In taking them up also a considerable disturbance and irritation of the parts would ne- cessarily be produced. For such reasons, and on account of the generally fatal termination of a wound of the epigastric artery, I cannot but view this accident as a truly perilous one. The external iliac vein must never be included in the ligature, aa such a proceeding would cause a dangerous in- terruption of the return of the blood. Mr. Norman, of Bath, who has tried both modes of operating, found that proposed by Sir A. Cooper a more easy way of finding the ex- ternal iliac artery than the longitudinal incision practised by Mr. Abernethy. "The objection (says Mr. Norman) to Sir A. Cooper's mode of operating in cases where the tumor extends high up, is by no means well founded; for the lower part of the bag of the peritoneum, lying on the edge of Poupart's ligament, must in every case be exposed and detached, in order to get at the artery, which lies behind the posterior part of that membrane, and this is most easily effected by an incision in the direction of Poupart's ligament; whilst two thirds of the longitudinal incision are made on a part of the peritoneum, which lines the abdominal muscles, and the lower portion only of the incision reaches that part of the membrane which is to be separated. The consequences of this are, that the peritoneum is in much greater danger of being wounded, and that the probability of a hernia forming after the cure is much in- creased by the extensive division of the oblique muscles." (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. x, p. 101.) These remarks are well founded, and they coin- cide with some observations made many years ago by M. Roux, who, while he inclined to Mr. Abernethy's method, saw the disadvantage of let- ting the direction of the wound in this iiistance correspond to the course of the artery Hence, after many trials on the dead subject, he laid down the rule, that the beginning of the wound should never be further than half an inch from, and » very little higher than, the anterior superior spme of the ilium, and that it should be carried very obliquely do^vnwards, to the middle of Poupart s ligaijient. (See Nouveaxuv EUmens de Med. Op. t. i. p. 747, &C.) TVT. Mr. Todd also, after repeated trials of Mr. Aberiiethv's and Sir Astley Cooper's methods on the dead subject, concluded that the plan, recom- mended by the latter afforded the greatest facility ot applying ihe ligature to the artery, because more rooin was obtained by it, and with less disturbance of the peritoneum, than in the other way. \\ here however, it becomes necessary to apply a ligature to a higher part of the artery, in consequence o secondary hemorrhage, Mr. Todd conceives tha Mr. Abernethy's method should be adopted, (bee DMin Hospital Reports, vol. m. p- y-^-; In a case operated upon by Mr. Kirbv a hernia foUowed.'in the situation f^^^^^J'^^^, minal muscles had been divided. (See r«.s« n 109. 8vo. Loud. 1819.) In'one case, Dr. Post found the peritoneum so