HAEMORRHAGE, 3 I lirane,] It is elastic and firm in the Iniigitii- diiial direction, but easily torn by the slightest force applied in the circular direction. Its dis- eases prove that it is vascular, and probably pos- sesses sensibility. The experiments of M. Manec shew, that it secretes an unctuous matter, which facilitates the course of the blood ; another fact in confirmation of its vascularity. (See Manec, TraUe. de la Ligature des Arteres, Paris, 1832, in fol.) [The middle coat is the thickest, and is divided into two layers. The outer of the two is composed of the yellow elastic tissue, and is found more abundant in the large arteries, the middle coat of the aorta being formed entirely of this layer. The inner or muscular layer is constituted of organic muscular fibre, arranged circularly, and is found in the greatest quantity in the smallest arteries. In those of intermediate size only are the two layers manifest, holding the position we have assigned to them.] As the middle coat has no longitudinal fibres, ihe circular fibres are held together by a slen- der connection, which yields readily to any force, applied in ihe circumference of the artery. It easily gives way, whether the force is exerted in the direction of the diameter, or in that of the course of the vessel. J. L, Sanson, Des He- morrhar/ies Traumatiques, p. 33.) The external coat is remarkable for its whiteness, density, and great elasticity. It adheres to the middle coat by means of very fine reddish fila- ments, analogous to those which unite the middle to the internal coat, and it manifestly receives the vasa vasorum. (See J. L. Sanson, op. cit.) ^V^u!n an artery is surrounded loith a tiyht ligature, its iniddle and internal coals are as completely divided by it as they could be by a knife, while the external coat remains entire. (Jones.) If an artery he extended longitudinally, the in- ternal tunic is first ruptured, and then the middle one; but the external coat will admit of being elongated to a great extent before it will be torn, If an artery is twisted, rents are formed in the in- ternal coat, and next in the middle one ; but it is difiicult to produce a complete rupture of the external tunic. If an artery is struck and for- cibly contused, or if it is surrounded with a tight ligature, its internal and middle coats are readily divided, but the external one still makes resis- tance. (See L. J. Sanson, Deslitmorrhagies Trau- matiques, p. 33.) In addition to these three coats, it would appear from the researches of M. Mnlgaigtie, that in the aorta, and the large trunks derived from it, there is interposed between the internal and fibrous coats, one, which he has named sclerous, which renders the aorta stronger and more rigid than the pulmonary artery; and is the seat of various earthy, stcatomatous, and cartilaginous formation.«, met with in the former vessel. It is certainly remarkable, that no good specimen of an ossification of the pulmonary artery has ever been noticed. (See «/. Liafranc, De f Obliteration des Arteres, p. 10.) Besides these proper coats, all the arteries, in their natural situations, are connected, Ijy means of fine cell ular tissue, with surrounding mem- branous sheaths, /fan artery be. divided, the di- vided parts. Giving to their elasticity, recede from each oilier, and the length of the cellular tissue, con- necting the artery with tlie sheath, admits of its re- tracting a certain may within tlte sheath. 849 Another important fact is, that wUn an artery is divided, its truncated extremities contract in a greater^ or less degree, and the contraction is gene- rally, if not alivitys, permanent. Arteries are furnished with arteries, veins, ab- sorbents, and nerves; a structure, which makes them susceptible of every change to which living parts are subjected in common; enables them to inflame, when injured, and to pour out coagulating lymph, by xvhich the injury is repaired, or the tube permanently closed. (See Jones, On Ilwrnorrhage.) Petit, in 1731, first endeavoured to explain the means which nature employs for the sup- pression of hasmorrhage. He thought that bleed- ing from a divided artery is stopped by the for- mation of a coagulum of blood, which is situated partly ivithin, and partly ivithout the vessel. The clot, he says, afterwards adheres to the inside of the artery, to its orifice, and to the surrounding parts; and he adds, that when hemorrhage is stopped by a ligature, a coagulum is formed above the ligature, which only differs in shape from the one which takes place when no ligature is employed. His theory leads him to recommend compression for the support of the coagulum. In 1736, Moraiid puldished additional interest- mg remarks. He allowed, that a coagulum had some eflfect in stopping hfemorrhage; but con- tended, that a corrugation, or plaiting, of the cir- cular fibres of the artery which diminish its canal, and a shortening and consequent thickening of ita longitudinal ones, which nearly rendered it im- pervious, had some share in the process. He thought that the cavity of an artery might be obliterated, by the puckering, or corrugation, when circular pressure, like that of a ligature, teas made. Morand erred chiefly iu his mode of explana- tion, and in his belief in the existence of longt- tudinal fibres, which no modern anatomists admit; for the contraction and retraction of divided arteries are indisputable facts, and, as Dr. Jones remarks, this does not afl^ect the truth of his general con- clusion, that the change, produced on a divided artery, contributes -with ihe coagulum to stop ilia flow of blood. Mr. S. Sharp (2nd edit, of Operations of Sur- ■y, 1739) supported the same doctrine. "The blood vessels, immediately upon their division bleed freely, and continue bleeding, till they are either stopped by art, or at length contractini;, and withdrawing themselves into the wound, their ex- tremities are shut up by coagulated blood." Pouteau {Melanges da Chirurgie, 17GU) denied that a coagulum is always found after an artery ia divided; and when it is, he thought it only a feeble subsidiary means towards the suppression of hajmorrhage. He contended, that the retrac- tion of the artery had not been demonstrated and could not be more effectual than a coagulum. ' His theory was, that the swelling of the cellular'mem- brane, at the circumference of the cut extremitv of the artery, forms the principal impediment to "the flow of blood ; and that n ligature is useful in pro- moting a more immediate and extensive induration of the cellular substance. :y 13 totally divided. Its retraction may bring it under the surrounding parts, niid with the natural contraction of the