1079 HYPERINOSIS. 3 z 4 lead to its complete dissolution and loss of vi- tality. (See Necr^mia; Pyaemia; Toxaemia.) In liyperinosis exudation is very easily produced, it may occur in a part witliout any hyperajmia, or may be very easily produced by the slightest de- termination of blood, taking place simultaneously with this occurrence, although no proportion may exist between the degree of hyperaemia and the quantity of exudation. It may be sufficiently abun- dant to diminish the quantity of fibrine in the blood very rapidly, and to alter its character. It represents various gradations in the morbid state of the blood and of its protein and morphological constituents. In the more simple and slighter cases, before ul- terior changes have taken place in the blood, the exudations are fibrinous and organisable, and fa- vourable to the adhesive-process. The coagulable lymph forms tough, elastic coagula, analogous to the buify coat; or fibrinous layers; or false mem- branes. In severe cases, or after the inflammatory condition has continued for some time, with the modifications which occur in the blood itself, the exudations lose their disposition to become organ- ised and have a tendency to liquefy and degenerate. In an ordinary cut, in a previously healthy subject, the slight local inflammation tends to adhesion, the effusion becomes permeated with blood-vessels and organised; but extreme or long continued hyper- inosis prevents the process of development. The inflammation of the part also takes place in excess, and the healing of wounds, and the reparation of injuries is often thereby altogether prevented The exudations often become too copious, of a yel lowish or yellowish-green colour, devoid of fibril lation, and exhibit a tendency to break down spontaneously. When taken from the tissue and examined microscopically, they exhibit nuclei or imperfect cell formations, in a faintly striated base- ment membrane, more or less reddened by extrava- sated blood corpuscles; as often observed in pneii monia; or they may run rapidly into puriform lique faction. They have a corroding solvent eff'ect after they have been applied some time to the tissues, occasioning fresh inflammation, ulcerous loss of substance, secondary phlebitis, visceral abscessess or they may be reabsorbed, or undergo fatty or cre- taceous transformation, or solidification, the more liquid portion being absorbed. Mr. Paget well remarks. " We may truly say, the conditions most favourable to the abundant production of lymph, are among the most unfavourable to its develop- ment, i. e. to its complete and higher organisation." One of the most serious results of a state of liyperinosis is the tendency to the formation of fibrinous concretions in the heart and vessels during life. The special characteristics of concre- tions from this cause are, that forming gradually they are modelled to the containing vessel or cavity, they are generally adherent mechanically to the parletes, or grooved by currents of blood that have passed along them, or they are formed into tubes re- sembling an inner additional coat and admitting a current of blood. (/«,aw/soM, lib. cit. p. 6.5.) They sometimeB fill one of the cavities of the heart. The formation of these concretions is often the immediate cause of death in croup, pneumonia, acute laryn- gitis, and other diseases. Fibrinous concretions were' found in 23 fatal cases from acute inflamma tion of the respiratory organs, with rapid sinking (Richardsott, lib. cit. p. 19.) (See Blood, Co AGULATION OF, DURING LIFE.) Hyperinosis attends all active inflammations, but it is most marked in pneumonia, croup, acute rheumatism, acute bronchitis, and acute pleurisy. In blood drawn in these diseases, the firmness of the clot, the tenacity and thickness of the buify coat and the concavity of its surface, that is to say,'the quantity and the contractile power of the fibrine, has very generally been found to hear a relative proportion to the degree of inflammation. It attends peritcmitis, inflammation of the uro- poietic viscera, and erj'sipelatous diseases, so com- monly occurring in surgical practice, but less coiistantlv, and not in so well marked a form. It is one of'the most common, and often the primary effect of the introduction of poisons into the blood, and it occurs in the early stage of most eruptive fevers, and especially in small-pox. From the buffy coat, and the general characteristics of the blood, Sydenham regarded the distinct small-pox as an inilammation of the blood, and the confluent form as the result of a more intense inflammation. (Op. sec. iii. cap. ii. 30, 49.) The exudation in this disease is a local deposit, resulting from an elective affinity of certain structures, as the corium, for some of the products of the inflammatory and poisoned blood; the epidermis being elevated at each point of the exudation, in the first place as a vesicle; and, as Mr. Paget remarks, "the morbid material is incorporated in the products of the in- flammation, which are evolved within the charac- teristic vesicle." {Lectures on Pailiology, vol. i. p. 441.) Pus corpuscles ultimately form in the fluid and multiply, until the aqueous part is ab- sorbed, and the pustule dries. Hyperinosis is a frequent eifect of the sj'philitic virus. Whether an inflamed state of the blood is ever a primary effect of the agencies which produce disease, or is not always a secondary affection, has given rise to much difference of opinion. The in- crease of fibrine is regarded by some pathologists as so certain a sign of local inflammation, that if more than five parts are contained in 1000, in the course of any disease, it may be positively affirmed that local inflammation exists. {Handbooh of Physiology, hy Kirhes and Paget, p. 57.) Andral found that the augmentation commenced at the very outset of a local inflammation; its minimum proportion was 5, its average he estimated at 7, and in one case he found as much as 13'3 parts in the 1000; the fibrine increasing with the progress of the inflammation, varying with its varying inten- sity, and decreasing when the local disease abated. The hyperinosis occurs not only when the pro- portion of fibrine has been previously normal, or in excess, but in opposite states of the system; and in diseases with a deficiency, or morbid state of the fibrine, as in typhus, tuberculosis, or chlo- rosis. Hence an inflammatory commotion may supervene upon many other diseased conditions of the vital fluid. Professor Virchow, who traces almost all patholo- gical change to the cellular elements of the tissues, takes a diifercnt view, and maintains that fibrinous exudations cannot be produced by any pressure or alteratiim of the current of the blood. Local irrita- tion, alone, is capable of producing it, and some local change in iiddition to the disturbance in the circulation is always required. On this view of the case it could not be affirmed of a person who has an excess of fibrine in his blood, that tiierc is also a greater tendency to fibriimua trans-