GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 825 [The following Table shows the number and results of cases of Gunshot Wounds of the Neck, treated from 1st April 1855 to the end of the Crimean War.] Non-commissioned Officers and Privates. DIED. (A Total treated In the regimen- tal or primary hospitals. In'the secon- dary hospitals. Of other dis- eases while un- der treatment for wounds. Total died. Discharged to di Invalided. Simple flesh contusions and /slight wounds ...... "-severe /Pharynx .... With lesionof the ■ j^J^^ cesophagus 47 76 1 2 ■ 1 1 0 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 3 1 0 0 0 47 60 6 1 0 0 0 13 0 1 1 1 128 3 0 1 4 108 16 [Shows the number and result of cases treated from the commencement to the close of the Crimean War.] Commissioned Officers. Total treated. Total died. Dis- charged to duty. Inva- lided. f slight \ severe 4 12 3 0 0 2 4 4 0 0 8 1 Total . . 19 2 8 9 Gunshot Wounds of the Chest. Wounds of the lungs, abstracted from other mischief, are not always fatal. Balls have been found in the substance of the lungs after having lodged there twenty years, during the whole of which time the patients were healthy, and free from symptoms indicative of the case. {Percy, Manuel, ^c. p. 25.) Mr. Hunter liad some rea- son to believe that wounds of the lungs produced by balls were generally less dangerous than such as were made with sharp-pointed instruments ; for ho had seen several patients recover after they had been shot through the lungs, while other per- sons died of very small wounds of those organs, made with swords and bayonets. Perhaps one cause of tliis fact may be owing to the circum- stance of gunshot wounds generally bleeding less than other wounds, so that tliero is not so much danger of blood being effused in the cavity of the chest, or the cells of the lungs. The indisposition of the orifice of a gunshot wound to heal quickly, is also another circumstance that must lessen the hazard, as whatever matter happens to be cxtra- vasated has thereby an opportunity of escaping. But, from what has been stated, it must not be inferred that gunshot wound of the lungs are not accompanied with a serious degree of danger. Frequently the patient expires instantlj', being suffocated in consequence of profuse h.-cmorrhage from those organs; for, though it bo true, that gunshot wounds generally do not bleed much, when the injured vessels are imder a certain size, yet the contrary is the case when the wounded ves- sels are like those situated towards the root of the lungs. Gunshot wounds of the chest often prove fatal by the inflammation excited within the cavity. Appearances sometimes create a belief that a ball has passed completely through the chest and lungs, when the fact is otherwise. " Thus (as Dr. Hennen observes), I have traced a ball by dissection, passing into the cavity of the thorax, making the circuit of the lungs, penetrating nearly opposite the point of entrance, and giving the ap- pearance of the man having been shot fairly across, while bloody sputa seemed to prove the fact, and, in realit}', rendered the same measures, to a cer- tain extent, as necessary as if the case had been what was suspected. The bloody sputa, however were only secondary, and neither so active nor so alarming as those which pour out at once from the lungs when wounded." {Mililary Surgery, p. 360 ed. ."{.) A second cause of deception is the fre- quent long course of a ball, round the chest under the skin and muscles previous to its exit, thereby assuming the appearance of the patient having been shot through the lungs. Another source of deception, as to the actual penetration of balls, is " where they strike against a handkerchief, linen, cloth, &c., and are drawn out unperccivod in their folds, a peculiarity which has not escaped M. Larre}', who gives an interest- ing notice of it in the BuUelins de la Pacullc do MCd. Paris, 1815, No. 2. I have also given an instance