1024 HYD. singly or in clusters, and make their escape, loaded with eggs, into the external world. Generally speaking, the cystic worms occur in animals which serve as the prey of those which are capable of developing the cystic worm into a tape- worm in their intestines. Thus the cystic worm of the mouse (cysticercus fasciolaris) becomes the tape-worm {tcsnia crassicoUis) of tlie cat; and many similar examples might be adduced. The same re- lation prevails between the hydatid (camirus cere- bralis) which occurs in the brain of the sheep, and causes the disease known as the "staggers," and the tape-worm [tcenia ccenuri) of the sheep-dog. Sometimes, however, the same animal is capable of developing the worm in bolJi its stages. This is the case in man with regard to the t£enia solium and the cysticercus cellulosa;. In man, however, the cystic form of this worm is rare, and may be considered exceptional in its occurrence, while the mature taenia is sufficiently common. Individuals in whom cysticerci have been found, have not unfrequently been previously the subjects of tania, from the eggs of which it is probable they may have infected them- selves with cysticerci. " There are various ways," says Kiichenmeister, " in which this may take place. The individual, when the mature segments (pro- glottides) have fallen into his clothes, may remove them with iiis fingers, and may thus contaminate the latter with eggs, after which, if he does not wash his hands perfectly clean, or neglects to wash them altogether, and then incautiously puts them to his mouth, his infection with the eggs, and con- sequently with cysticerci, is rendered possible. But a person infested with taenia may also infect him- self with cysticerci without the previous escape of the proglottides from his intestine, if the proglottis, instead of passing downwards, proceeds upwards and reaches the stomach, or if it is carried there forcibly during vomiting." (Op. cit. vol. i. p. 44.) It appears essential, however, that the eggs should in some way reach the stomach, and be acted upon l)y the gastric juices, otherwise the egg-shells re- main entire, and the embryos do not escape. The cysticercus cellulosse has been found in man in the cellular tissue, and in various muscles, es- pecially in the muscular fibres of the heart, in the eye, and in the brain. It acquires various forms and sizes, according to the space afforded for its development, and the softness or yielding nature of the tissues in which it is placed. In the mus- cles its average size is about that of a pin's head; but in the ventricles of the brain, or in the eye, it may attain even the size of a walnut, and may as- sume the most various forms. The increase in size depends entirely upon the enlargement of the vesicle, and not of the scolex; and whatever the size of the vesicle, there is never in this variety of worm more than one scolex in its interior. The symptoms produced by the cysticercus cel- lulosse vary according to its seat; it is quite harm- less in the subcutaneous cellular tissue; and in the muscles, with the exception of the muscular fibres of the heart, it causes little inconvenience or in- jury. When situated in the fibres of the heajt, it may lend to their softening; and during the period of its retrogressive shrivelling or calcifica- tion, to abbreviation of the musculi papillares, to defects in the valves, and to the formation of di- verticula and aneurisms. There are no means of discovering it when seated in the deeper muscles or in the heart. (Op. cit, p. 124.) Cysticerci have been seen in the anierior chamber of the eye by several observers—Soemmering, Schott, Graefe, and others. The symptoms ob- served were; frequently recurring ophthalmia, sub-conjunctival injection, coating of the hinder wall of the cornea, as if with a fine exudative vapour, chronic and local iritis, and severe neural- gic pain. In the case recorded by Graefe, a round, milky, somewhat transparent vesicle, the size of a pea, made its appearance in the anterior chamber of the eye; on its lower part sat a perfectlj' opaque white knob, on which several lateral swellings (sucking discs) were detected, even with tiio naked eye, but better with a lens. Its movements were of a peculiar constrictive character, proceed- ing from the fundus of the vesicle, and diffusing themselves in an xuidulatory manner over the lateral portions. The same surgeon met with a case of cysticercus in the posterior chamber. This was so distinctly perceived by the patient himself that he was able to draw the shadow which the animal produced upon his retina. When situated in the aqueous humoui', the vesicle may be removed by an incision through the cornea, or broken up with a needle; but the former process is preferable, as the chitiuous structiu'e of the vesicle does not disappear by absorption (p. 125). In the vitreous humour.—Here, and in the other deeper tissues of the eyj, the detection of a cysti- cercus has only been possible since the introduc- tion of the ophthalmoscope. Two cases, observed by Graefe, are quoted by Kiichenmeister. In the first, a membranous cylinder, of about one niillim. with transparent membranous walls, was observed in the retina, near the optic nerve. It was directed forwards, so that it ran through the viti'eous bodj' nearly in the direction of the axis of vision. In this cylinder lay the cysticercus. The posterior end of the cylinder reached to the retina, but the fundus of the vesicle of the cysticercus separated distinctly a little before it. Anteriorly the longish vesicle diminished in calibre; the head was situ- ated about in the centre of the eye, and appeared as a whitish swelling, the true relations of which were concealed by the enveloping cylinder, from which various streaky pseudo-membranous raj's ran forwards and towards the lens. In front of the body just described, and on the hinder wall of the lens, lay a second body similar to a C3^sticercus, as to which Graefe was not perfectly clear at the time, but which might possibly have been a dead cysti- cercus. Graefe thought he recognised the undula- tory movements of the worm, but they were not very distinctly perceived. The patient was afflicted with imperfect vision and strabismus. The other eye was sound. Taenia solium was present, but there were no cysticerci in other parts of the body'. In the second case there was a movable cysticercus celliilosa; in the vitreous humour, which began to exhibit turbidity in consequence of the irritation to which the animal gave rise in it. Graefe es- tablished a coloboma in the sclerotic coat, and afterwards extracted the cysticercus with great difficulty by incision in the sclerotic. In this operation the vesicle was torn off, and the head and neck, which were seized by a serre-tete, could only be got out after several attempts. Only a portion of the cyst was removed. The suckers of the cysticercus continued to move for twenty niuiutes under the microscope. The visual power of tne patient improved, he could read large prin'i