i CANCER. disease may be left unreraoved by the operator, is obvious on considering the manner in wliich the white bands, resembling ligament, shoot into the suiTounding fat; and that even the fibres of the muscles, beneath a cancerous disease, are lie quently affected. At the same time, it must be allowed, that the disease is sometimes to all ap- pearances, so freely and completely removed, that its recurrence may be imputed, perhaps with equal probability, to the continued operation of the same unknown cause which originally produced the first cancerous mischief. Sir Astley Cooper, and many other very experienced men both of the past and present time, consider cancer as decidedly a complaint connected with a peculiar state of the constitution. But, if this be true, it may be asked, how can any cure be expected from the removal of the part, as the continued operation of the same constitutional causes must occasion a relapse ? And so they sometimes do, no doubt, independently of the accident of any portion of the disease not being completely removed with the knife. How- ever, experience proves, that the operation fre- quently effects a radical cure, and no other organ 13 afterwards attacked ; which is analogous to what is seen after the amputation of a scrofulous limb ; a case in which frequently no other part is after- wards attacked, though the constitution is im- sound. From the description which Sir Astley Cooper has given of the dissection of persons destroyed by scirrhus, it must be inferred, not only that the disease is constitutional, but that the hope of radi- cally curing it, either by medicines or an operation, must very often fail in advanced cases. He says, that a scirrhus in the breast is generally accom- panied by several smaller tumors of the same character in different parts of the glandular struc- ture. He notices the deposition of the scirrhous matter in the axillary glands, and those above the clavicle. On the left side, he says, the latter sometimes press upon the termination of the tho- racic duct. According to his observations, the glands behind the cartilages of the ribs, when the disease is on the sternal side of the nipple, are generally diseased. The axillary glands on the other side of the body he has also seen in the same state. The lungs are often found inflamed, and adherent to the pleura ; serum is effused in the chest ; and the pleura costalis studded with scir- rhous tubercles. He also describes the liver, uterus, ovaries, and bones, as participating in the morbid changes. (See Lectures, ^-c. p. ] 82, vol. ii.) In addition to all these facts, we are to re- member the occasional presence of scirrhous matter in the blood-vessels themselves. Under such cir- cumstances, the inutility of any treatment must be obvious. Until late years, the accounts given of the results of operation for cancers were so unpromising that they deterred many patients from undergoing a timely operation, wliich for cancerous complaints is the only remedy with which wc are as yet ac- quainted, entitled to any confidence. As Mr. B. Bell remarks, the great authority of Dr. Alex- ander Monro must have liad no inconsiderable in- lluence even with practitioners, in making them much more backward in undertaking the extirjia- tion of cancers than they otherwise would have been. " Of near sixty cancers," says he, " which 395 I have been present aUhe extirpation of;;„ly four ^^^^^Z^rSr^TZ patients remained free of the disease at the end of two years : three of these lucky people had occult cancers in the breast, and the fourth had an ulcer- ated cancer on the lip." {Edin. Med. Essays, vol. V.) Dr. Monro also observes that in those in whom he saw the disease relapse, it was always more violent, and made a quicker progress than it commonly did in others on whom no operation had been performed. Hence he questions, " whether ought cancerous tumors to be extirpated, or ought the palliative method only be followed ?" and, upon the whole, he concludes against their extir- pation, except in such as are of the occult kind, in young healthy people, and have been occasioned by bruises or other external causes. More modern experience, however, has afforded a very different result,and given rather more encou- ragement to the early performance of an operation, and even to making an attempt to cut away the disease, in every instance, both of the occult and ulcerated kind, when such a measure can be so ex- ecuted as not to leave a particle of the cancerous mischief behind. Mr.Hill, in 1772, published some valuable re- marks on the present subject. At this period, he had extirpated from different parts of the body eighty-eight genuine cancers, which were all ulcer- ated, except four ; and all the patients except two recovered of the operation. Of the first forty- five cases, one only proved unsuccessful ; in three more, the cancer broke out again in different parts; and in a fifth, there were threatenings of some tumors at a distance from the original disease. These tumors, however, did not appear till three years after the operation ; and the woman was carried off by a fever before they had made any pro- gress. All the rest of the forty-five continued well as long as they lived ; or are so, says Mr. Hill, at this day. One of them survived the operation above thirty years ; and fifteen were then alive, although the last of them was cured in March, Of the next thirty-three, one lived only four months ; and, m five more, the disease broke out afresh, after having been once healed. The rea- son why, out of forty-five cases, only four or five proved unsuccessful, and six out of thirty-three was as follows: " The extraordinary success I met with (says Mr. Hill), made cancerous patients resort to me from all corners of the country several of whom, after delaying till there was little probability of a cure by extirpation or any other means, forced me to perform the operation con- trary both to my judgment and inclination." Upon a survey, in April, 17C4, made with a view to publication, the numbers stood thus • Total cured, of different ages from eighty down- wards, sixty-three ; of whom there were then livinir thirty-nine. In twenty-eight of that number, the operation had been performed more than two years before ; and, in eleven, it had been done in the course of the last two years. So that, upon the whole, after thirty years' practice, thirty-nine of sixty-three patients, were alive and sound ; which gives Mr. Hill occasion to observe, that the dif- ferent patients lived as long, after the extirpation ot the cancers, as, according to the bills of mor- tality they would have done had they never had any cancers, or undergone any operation. The remaining twenty-five, which complete the .year 1764.