172 ANEURISM. from the great merits of several modern surgeons, that the Greeks were acquainted with the practice of tying the artery with two ligatures, and divid- ing it between them, high above the tumor, as Avill appear by a reference to jElius. (4 Serm. tetr. 4, cap. X.) In the same ancient work, we are di- rected to open the aneurismal tumor at the bend of the elbow, and when the blood has been evacu- ated, to tie the artery twice, and divide it. This method of applying two ligatures to the artery, and dividing the vessel between them, a method spoken of by .ZEtius, was revived in France about eighty years ago by Tenon, who, as well as some later surgeons, was totally unacquainted with its antiquity. (See Fellelan, CUnique Cldr. t. ], p. 192.) At one time it had also modern advo- cates in Abernethy and Maunoir, each of whom supposed the plan an invention of his own. (See Surgical and Phjsiol. Essays, part iii. 8vo. Lond. 1797; BXiA. Memoircs Physiologiques et Pratiques sur VAneurisme, <^c. 8vo. Geneve, 1802.) Some of its advocates suspected that too rapid an ulcer- ation of the artery and secondary hemorrhage, arose from the traction exercised in opposite direc- tions by the upper and lower portion of the vessel; and they conceived that each end of the divided artery formed a circular prominence beyond the ligature, calculated to hinder it from slipping. Hence, according to their view, the less frequency of secondary hemorrhage after amputations, than after operations for aneurism. When an artery is laid bare, and detached from its natural connections, and the middle of such de- tached portion tied with a single ligature, as was John Hunter's practice, Abernethy conceived that the vessel, so circumstanced, would necessarily in- flame, and be likely to ulcerate. The occurrence of bleeding from this cause at first led to a practice, which this gentleman justly censures, viz. applying a second ligature above the first, and leaving it loose, but ready to be tightened in case of hemor- rhage. As the second ligature, however, inust keep a certain portion of the artery separated from the surrounding parts, and must, as an extraneous substance, irritate the inflamed vessel, it must make its ulceration still more apt to follow. The great object, therefore, which Abernethy insisted upon, was that of apply ing the ligature close to that part of the artery which lies amongst its natural connections : a just principle, the truth and utility of which still remain incontrovertible, though there may be a better way of accomplishing what Abernethy intended, than the measures which he was led to recommend. The peculiarity in Abernethy's first operation consisted in applying twoligatures round the artery, close to wliere it was surrounded with its natural connections. For this purpose he passed tvvo ligatures of middling size beneath the femoral artery ; and having drawn one upwards, the other downwards, as far as the vessel was detached, both the ligatures were firmly tied. The event of this case was successful. An uneasy sensation of tightness, however, extending from the wound down to the knee, and continuing for many days after the operation, made Abernethy detwniinc, in any future case, to divide the artery between the two ligatures, so as to leave it quite lax. Abernethy next relates the particulars of a pop- liteal aneurism, for wliich Sir Charles Blicke ope- rated and divided the artery between the ligatures. The man did not experience the above kind of uneasiness ; and no hemorrhage ensued when the ligatures came away, although there was reason to think that the whole arterial system had a ten- dency to aneurism, as there was also another tu- mor of this kind in the opposite thigh. The reasoning which induced Abernethy to re- vive this ancient practice was ingenious ; for, when the artery was tied with two ligatures, and divided, in the foregoing manner, it was argued that it would be quite lax, possess its natural attachments, and be as nearly as possible in the same circum- stances as a tied artery upon the face of a stump. Strictly speaking, however, as Mr. Hodgson first pointed out, an artery tied in two places, and divided in the interspace, cannot be regarded as placed exactly in tlie same condition as an artery tied in amputation. In the latter case the retrac- tion of the vessel corresponds with that of the sur- rounding parts, which are divided at the same instant, and therefore its relative connections stand as before the operation. But, in the operation for aneurism, the retraction of the artery takes place without being attended with a corresponding re- traction of its connections. How far the retrac- tion of tiie artery is beneficial, or injurious, is by no means evident ; and the advantages arising from it, may, in most situations, be obtained without dividing the vessel, by placing the hmb in a bent position. One important object, how- ever, is gained by the division of the artery ; namely, that it is generally in that case tied close to its connections, audit is very evident how liable the application of the ligature in the middle of a denuded extensive portion of the vessel must be to produce ulceration or sloughing of its coats. The same object, however, will be gained by tying the imdivided artery close to its connections at the end nearest to the heart; and the existence: of a single ligature at the bottom of the wound will be less liable to give rise to suppuration and the formation of sinuses, than the employment of two. When an artery is divided, the portions situated beyond the ligatures must slough, and prove an addiiional cause of suppuration in the wound. Experience has amply proved the safety of employing a single ligature, and it is at present used by many of the most experienced operators in this countrj-. (See IJudgson, On the Diseases of Arteries, ^c. p.221, &c.) According to Scarpa, numerous examples ot the failure of the plan of applying two ligatures, and cutting through the artery in the interspace, are already generally known. He speaks of one failure which occurred to Abernethy himself. But I entertain doubts how far any inference against the method can be drawn from Monteg- gia's instance, in which a ligature of reserve was used. Nor can I understand how a circumstance, which Scarpa strongly insists upon, can be well founded ; I mean, the danger of tiie ligature being forced off the mouth of the artery by tiie impulse of the blood. Any ri^k of this kind cannot exist if the ligature be duly applied, as Dr. Jones has particularly explained ; and, at all events, how can it bo greater here than after amputation, where it is not usually miide a subject of complaint.= Indeed, tlie several examples of secondary hemor- rhage, after this method, quoted by Scarpa from tlie practice of Monteggia, Morigi, and Assalmi, may bo more rationally imputed either to reserve-