FRACTURE. 739 however, a point in surgery requiring explanation. The eversion or inversion of the limb, Diipuytren ascribes to the obliquity of the fragments. If the internal fragment is carried backward, and the external one forward, then, says he, eversion will take place ; but on the contrav)', if the fracture be oblique in the inverse direction, there will be inversion of the limb. {Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 109.) [Mr. R. W. Smith is of opinion that the occa- sional occurrence of inversion should be ascribed r.ither to the relative position of the fragments than to the action of those muscles which rotate inwards; for the rotators outwards, whose influence the fracture does not affect, still preponderate over their antagonists. In every case of fracture, ac- companied by inversion of the foot, which he has had an opportunitj'' of examining after death, tlte inferior lias been placed in front of the superior fragment. Cruveilhier also has recorded a case of fracture with inversion, in which, after death, this relative position of the fragments was found. This is in contradiction to the opinion of Dupuytren above quoted ; but, as Mr. Smith explains, it is pro- bable that this surgeon's views have been misstated by the editors of the Lemons Orales, and that his real opinion was, as stated by Sanson, that inver- sion of the foot occurred when the lower fragment was placed in front of the superior. Inversion of the foot has been noticed both in the intra-capsular and in the extra-capsular fracture, but it appears to be most frequent in the latter variety. Mr. R. W. Smith states that he has met with seven examples of inversion, and in five of these the fracture was external to the capsular ligament.] Mr. Porter had an opportunity of dissecting the hip-joint, in a case where the patient, an old female, died the day after the accident. When first brought to the hospital, she could bend the knee and draw up the foot by the action of the muscles of the limb alone. Afterwards she lost this power. The limb was not shorter than the other; neither was the toe everted. At the post-mortem examination the limb was from a quarter to half an inch shorter than the other, and " the foot was in a state of semi-ever- sion," The capsule was found perfect, and, on dividing it posteriorly, a transverse fracture of the neck of the femur was detected close to the head of the bone, and, of course, entirely within the capsule. The fragments were but little displaced, beiiir/ held tor/ether by tlie synovial membrane and periosteum. These latter were partially detached, and a portion of the lower surface of the neck of the bone de- nuded ; but the fibres, removed from tlie bono, were gathered together into a bundle, forming a kind of ligament of a triangular shape; the base being at the edge of the head, the apex at the point of reflexion of the synovial membrane on the capsule. This appeared to be very tense and strong, and made considerable resistance to a separation of the frag- ments. "This case is interesting, as proving that in fractures completely within the capsule the limb is not at all, or but slightly, shortened ; and that the chief obstacle to such shortening is the periosteum of the neck, and the reflected syno- vial membrane." {W. II. Porter, m Dub. Journ. of Med. Science, vol. x. p. 243.) The disliicatinn upon the dorsum of the iliiun, that into the sciatic notch, and fracture of the neck of the {emnr, attended with inversion of the fool, arc to be distinguished from each other, according to Mr. Outhrie, by comparison, or a due estimate of the degree of inversion. In the first case the in- version is complete, the great toe resting against the instep of the opposite foot ; in the second, it is less complete, the great toe resting against the b.all of the corresponding toe of the opposite foot ; and in the third, it is still less complete. And, as Mr.R.W. Smith justly observes, the nature of the injury is rendered still more evident by observing the facility with which, in the case of fracture, the foot may be everted, the thigh flexed upon the abdomen, and the limb restored to its natural length by extension; and comparing its free, loose, powerless condition with its almost immovably fixed state in disloca- tion. (See Dub. Journ. of Med. Scietiae, vol. vi. p. 218.) [The accident most liable to be confounded with dislocation upon the dorsum ilii, is fracture nf the neck of the femur, with inversion of the foot, especially if it is combined with fracture of the trochanters, which is almost invariably the case in the extracapsular variet}% A direct source of mistake may then arise from the positive resem- blance of the fractured portion of the trochanter to the head of the femur, the former occupying the same place as the latter would do in dislocation, (R. W. Smith, On Dislocations, Sfc. p. 23.) ] The ordinary position of the toes outward is commonly, and I believe correctljf, imputed to the action of the rotator muscles, and the adductors, Bichat conceived, however, that if this doctrine were true, such position ought always to exist ; and he reminds us that all the muscles which proceed from the pelvis to the trochanter and upper part of the outer fragment, are, with the ex- ception of the quadratus, in a state of relaxation, by the approximation of the femur to their point of insertion ; and that the contracted muscles would not allow the foot to be so easily turned inward again. Hence Bichat thought it probable that the weight of the foot itself might pull the limb into the position in which it is commonly found. On the other hand, it is remarked by Sir A. Cooper that any one may satisfy himself that the rotation of the limb outwards is in part owing to the muscles, by feeling the resistance which is made to rotation inwards, which resistance, however, he thinks may in some measure depend upon the length of the portion of the neck of the femur, which remains attached to the trochanter major, and rests against the ilium. {Surgical Essays, part ii. p. 32.) In addition to the foregoing observations re- specting the diagnosis, it is to be remembered, that a fracture within the capsular ligament seldom hap- pens but at an advanced period of life, and is much more frequent in women than men. {Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations, SfC. p. 123.) The observations of Boyer, R. W. Smith, Por- ter, and others,'prove that a fracture of the neck of the thigh -bone, on the outside of the capsular ligament, is attended with a greater shortening of the limb than a fracture within it. A fracture on the outside of the capsule is frequently met witli in persons under fifty, though it may and often does occur in older subjects. Also, while the fracture within the capsule takes place from very slight causes, this is generally the result of great violence, severe blows, falls, and the passage of heavy carriages over the pelvis, The crepitus can be easily felt, without previously drawing down the limb, and the case is characterised by greater Kuiroring than wlmt is usually noticed when the fracture is within the capsule. But the most im- 3 11 2