no AMPUTATION. vouvable a result, for, as Mr. Cox observes, there is " great diiRcuIty in obtaining an account of the failures of the operation, especially of the cases which were operated on on the field of battle, where the operators had no time or opportunity to commit the details to paper ;" while, on the other hand, the successful cases have always excited so much interest, that there is little likelihood that any of them have been left imrecorded. In 1852, Dr. Stephen Smith, of New York, published a similar statement, comprising ninety- eight cases. Several successful cases had occurred in the interval since the appearance of Mr. Sands Cox's memoir, in 1815. The ratio of mortality is, therefore, very considerably reduced, and, according to Dr. Smith, the proportion of deaths to recoveries in the whole ninety-eight, is as fifty-six to forty-two, or 57-14 per cent. Some fatal cases, however, have been overlooked by Dr. Smith; one, for instance, by Mr. Listen, and another by Mr. Syme (both of which are included in Mr. Sands Cox's table), and a third in 1849, by Mr. Jones, of Jersey. Buteven allowing for these, the result is too favourable to be accounted for in any other way than by the non-publication of some of the unsuccessful cases. In sixty-two instances where the cause of the operation is stated with sufficient accuracy, Dr. Smith gives the following comparison between cases for severe injury and cases for chronic disease. In thirty of the former class, three out of five died, or 60 per cent. In thirty-two of the latter, the result, as might have been expected, was more favourable, the deaths and recoveries being equal, or a mor- tality of SO per cent. The following fui'ther ana- lysis of these cases, showing the mortality at different periods since the introduction of the ope- ration, is also interesting. Previously to 1800, ac- cording to Dr. Smith, it had been performed fifteen times, the recoveries to the deaths being as two to three, or the mortality 66§ per cent. These re- sults had the effect of directing attention strongly to the operation, and during the twenty years sub- sequently to 1800, it became of much more fre- quent occurrence, although the ratio of mortality was very considerably increased. During this pe- riod there were performed twenty-four operations, of which eighteen proved fatal, giving a mortality of 75 per cent. During the next twenty years, end- ing with 1839, there are reported forty-two cases, of which twenty-nine were fatal, eleven successful, and two doubtful,—admitting the doubtful among the fatal,—and they give a mortality of nearly 7 per cent. During the last twelve years the number of operations reported is twenty-one, of whicli eighteen were successful and two fatal, being a mortality of a little over 14 per cent. In review- ing the history of this operation, thus brietly sketched, it will be seen that tlie per centage ol mortality has not gradually diminished from the earliest introduction of the operation, but quite abruptly. It is difficult to account for this feature in the operation (says Dr. S.), except in a general way, for tlie ratio of accidents and injuries to chronic disease of the thigh remains nearly the same in both periods. We may suspect, however that the cases were better selected, that the opera- tion was more skilfully executed, and, above all, that much is due to the employment of anaisthetics. (New York Journ. of Med. vol. ix. 1852, p. 184.) Since tlic publication of the last edition of this dictionary in 1838, there are records of nineteen cases performed by British surgeons, of which the following is a brief outline. In June, 1843, by Dr. Handyside, of Edinburgh, for malignant disease of the femur in a boy aged 13. The method employed was by anterior and posterior flaps. This case recovered favourably from the operation, but died 41 months afterwards of a malignant tumor in another part of the body. {Lond. and Ed. Med. Journ. April, 1845, p. 254.) In Nov. 1844, by Mr. Sands Cox, of Birming- ham. Successful. This case has been already referred to. In Feb. 1846, by Mr. Whipple, of Plymouth, for diseased knee-joint, abscesses, and irregular growth from the femur, extending up to the tro- chanters. Anterior and posterior flaps. Successful. {Lancet, vol. ii. 1846, p. 883.) In Sept. 1848, by Mr. Syme, for abscesses and necrosis following amputation of the thigh, which had been performed three months previously for a compound fracture. Anterior and posterior flaps. Twenty-one ligatures were applied. This was the first successful case in Scotland. {Lond. and Ed. Monili. Jour. 1848, and Med. Times, Jan. 1849, p. 252.) In Feb. 1849, by Mr. Jones, of Jersey, for sloughing and secondary hemorrhage after a lace- rated wound of the thigh, sixteen days after the accident. Anterior and posterior flaps, the ante- rior being the longer. Fatal in twenty-seven hours. {Med. Times, March, 1849, p. 434.) In Nov. 1849, by Mr. Wigstrom, 14th Light Dragoons, at Lahore, for diseased femur and pro- fuse suppuration, extending nearly to the hips. Anterior and posterior flaps. Successful. {Lancet, vol. i. 1850, p. 411.) The above, with the exception of Mr. Jones s case, are included in Dr. Smith's statistical tables. In April, 1852, by Mr. Hancock, in the West- minster Hospital, for erysipelas and gangrene after compound fracture of the thigh. Operation seven- teenth day after the injury; died almost imme- diately. {Lancet, vol. i. 1857, p. 31.) In Jan. 1853, by Dr. R. J. Mackenzie, of Edinburgh, for extensive necrosis of the femur. Long anterior, short posterior flaps. Secondary hemorrhage and death on seventh day; went on well till that time. {Ed. Med. and Stirg. Journ. 1854, In Feb. 1853, by Dr. FajTer, at Rangoon, for cunshot fracture. Died a month afterwards from tetanus, wound all but healed. {Ed. Med. and Surg. Jour. \^oi,V-^^^■) In March, 1853, by Dr. Beatson, at Rangoon, for gunshot fracture. Secondary amputation. An- terior and posterior flaps. Died shortly afterwards. {Ranldng-s Abstract, vol. xxi. p. 182, and Ind. An- nah of Med. Science.) ^ , . • In April, 1853, by Mr. Charles Guthrie, in the Westminster Hospital, for malignant disease oi femur. Anterior and posterior AapB- Jfal nex^t day from hemorrhage. {Lancet, xoh i. 18^3, p. 405.) In May, 1853, by Mr. Wheatcroft, of Cannoch, StaffordsWre, fo'r disease of hip-oint Three flaps. Fatal in four hours. {Lancet, vol. i. i^oi, S March, 1854, by Mr. Adams th« I-ndon Hospital, for malignant disease of the femm^ ;f" terior and posterior flaps. V atal ui eleven daj {Med. Times, April, 1854, p. ^*:':>. Uni- In March, 1855, by Mr. Lrichsen, at Uni