354 BUNYON. which are commonly the eifect of a stone in the bladder. For the particulars of an interesting case, in which a metallic bougie broke in the urethra, the reader may consult London Med. Repository, vol. ix. No. 51. The manufacture of metallic bou- gies, however, is now brought to such perfection, that we rarely hear of their breaking ; but it is most prudent not to be too bold with those of small diameter. [They are composed of a mixture of lead and tin. By using these metals in the pro- portion of five parts of the former to three of the latter, a moderate degree^ of flexibility is pro- duced.] The bougie jvith its application, said Mr. Hun- ter, is perhaps one of the greatest improvements in surgery which these last thirty or forty years have produced. " When I compare the practice of the present day, with what it was in the year 1750, I can scarcely be persuaded that I am treating the same disease. I remember, when, about that time, I was attending the first hospitals in the city, the common bougies were either a piece of lead, or a small wax candle ; and, although the present bougie was known then, the due preference was not given to it, nor its particular merit under- stood, as we may see from the publications of that time." Of armed bougies, as well as of some other kinds, and of the manner of using bougies in general, I shall speak in the article Urethba, Strictures op. See /. Hunter, on tbe Venereal Disease, p. 116. Sharp's Critical Inquiry, cliap. iv. Aikin on the Ex- ternal Use of Lead. Daran, Obs. Chir. sur les Mala- dies de I'Ur^tre, 12mo. Paris, 1748 and 1768. Olivier, Lettre dans laquelle on D^montre les Avantages que I'onpeut retirer de I'Usa^e des Bougies Creuses, &c. 8vo. Paris, 1750- Desault, Journ. de Chir. t. ii- p- 375, and t. iii. p-123, 1792. Smyth's Brief Essay on Flexible Metallic Bougies, 8vo. Lond. 180i. Uict. des Sciences Mddicales, t. iii. p. 265, &c. 8vo. Pans, 1812. BRAIN. (For concussion, compression of, &c. see Head, Injuries of. For hernia of, see Hernia Cerebri.) BREAST. (See Cancer; Mammary Ab- scess; Mamma, Diseases and Removal of; and Nipple.) . BRONCHOCELE (from ^phX"^, pipe, and ici]K-n, a tumor). An enlargement of the thyroid gland forming a tumor in front of the neck. (See Thyroid Gland.) _ BRONCHOTOMY (from ^p(57Xos, the wind- pipe, and riixvw, to cut). An operation by which an opening is made into the trachea or larynx, either for the purpose of making a passage for the air into and out of the lungs, when any disease pre- vents the patient from breathing through the mouth and nostrils, or of extracting foreign bodies, which have accidentally fallen into the trachea: or, lastly, in order to be able to inflate the lungs ni cases of suspended animation. If the incision is made in the trachea, the operation is termed ira- clieotoiwj; if in the larynx, laryngoiomy. (See Lauvngutomy and Tracheotomy.) BUBO {^ovSbiv, the groin). A swelling of the lymphatic glands, particularly of those in the groin, from acute or chronic inflammation, with or with- out suppuration. The term is also occasionally applied to a similar swelling of the absorbent glands in other parts, especially the axilla. The disease may arise from the mere irritation of a local disorder, from the absorption of some poisonous matter, such as the venereal virus, or from constitutional causes. Of the first kind of bubo, that which is named the sympathetic is an instance. Of the second, the venereal bubo is a remarkable specimen, (See Venereal Disease.) The pestilential bubo, which is a symptom of the plague, and scrofulous swellings of the inguinal and axillary glands, may be regarded as examples of buboes from constitutional causes. (See Scro- fula.) The inguinal glands often become affected with simple phlegmonous inflammation, in consequence of irritation in parts, from which the absorbent vessels, passing to such glands, proceed. These swellings ought to be carefully discriminated from others which arise from the absorption of venereal matter. The first cases are simple inflammations, and only demand the application of leeches, cold evaporating lotions, and the exhibition of a few saline purges; but the latter render the adminis- tration of mercury, or other remedies for syphilis, advisable. SympatMic is the epithet usually given to in- flammation of glands from mere irritation; and we shall adopt it without entering into the question of its propriety. The sympathetic bubo is not un- frequently occasioned by the irritation of a virulent gonorrhoea. [In such cases the tumor less fre- quently suppurates, and is altogether a less severe aff'ection than a bubo arising from the absorption of a specific poison like the venereal. Sympa- thetic buboes are also less tedious than those re- sulting from constitutional causes, such as scrofula. (See Scrofula.)] BUBONOCELE (from ^ovSliiv, the groin, and /crjA-rj, a tumor). A species of oblique inguinal hernia, in which the protruded bowel is situated in the inguinal canal, entering the canal by the in- ternal abdominal ring, but not descending suffi- ciently far to escape from the canal by its ex- ternal aperture, the external abdominal ring. (See Hernia.) ^ , r, BUNYON. An inflammation of the bursa mucosa, at the inside of the ball of the great toe. (See Brodie's Pathological and Surgical Obs. on the Joints, p. 320, ed. 3.) The adjacent parts become thickened and indurated; the bones of the joint enlarge, and in process of time suffer a sort of sub- luxation ; the bursa being thus projected more and more against the shoe, is kept in a state of con- tinual excitement. Dropsical effusion, thickening of the membrane, and suppuration, with obstinate sinuses, may ensue. (See Symes Princ. of Sur- qerii, p. 347.) It is therefore proper to employ, in the early stage of the inflammation, leeches, poul- tices, and fomentations, or cold applications, and in particular to remove pressure from the swollen part, the foot being kept perfectly quiet, and not in a depending position. I suspect that the sub- luxation, or projection of the bones inwards at the joint above spoken of, is frequently a» eccdent to ihe bunyon,and a principal cause o the disoase I had a patient in the North London Hospital with an enormous bunyon, and in whom the ongnia conformation of the toe of each foot correspo d^ to this statement. In fact, he suflered f'" " ^"^-^ in both feet, in consequence of the pressure aciing with g rat oirect on the angular projection at the n er^ide of each of the gre.nt toes 1 have no doubt, however, that the inflammation and its