HERNIA. scrotum, the intestine being very greatly distended by flatus, and having its peritoneal coat rent by the distension. In two, the opening was accidental; in "\xru ^^'""S opened is not stated. Wiien an analysis is made of the dilFerent kinds ot hernia, a great disproportion is found in the amount of success attending the attempts to com- plete the operation; from which we may infer the difficulties that have been encountered in each, re- spectively, and also what are probable in other cases. Amongst the fifty-four cases, there were thirty-one of femoral, twenty of inguinal, and three of umbilical hernia : of the thirty-one cases of femoral hernia, the sac was opened in seven, of which one died; and not opened in twenty-four, of which one died. Of the twenty cases of" inguinal hernia, the sac was opened in thirteen, of which two died; and not opened in seven, amongst which there was not any death. Of the three cases of umbilical hernia, the sac was opened in one, fol- lowed by recovery; and not opened in two, of which one died." Mr. Luke considers it of great importance that the seat of stricture should be ascertained by manipu lation, before the operation is commenced. " This information is attained through a knowledge of the fact, that the stricture presents the communi- cation of impulse from one part of the tumor to another, beyond the stricture. Nothing more therefore, is required in availing ourselves of that knowledge, than to press the tumor firmly between the fingers of one hand, with a view to cause im- pulse, while, with the fingers of the other hand at the neck of the sac, the precise point at which im pulse ceases is carefully ascertained. At that point will be found the seat of stricture." There can be no doubt, that the mortality in cases of strangulated hernia would be considerably lessened by the general adoption of Petit's ope- ration of dividing the stricture, without opening the peritoneal sac. When the hernial contents cannot be released in this way, either from adhe- sions witiiin the sac, from stricture at the neck of tlie sac, or from other complications, if the plan recommended by Mr. Luke, of making as small an opening as possible in the sac were generally fol- lowed by surgeons, it is also probable that the death rate in this frequently fatal disease, might be still further diminished.] If the stricture should be at the inner opening of the canal for the spermatic cord, Sir A. Cooper advises the operator to introduce his finger into the sac, as far as the stricture, and then to insinuate a probe-pointed bistoury, with the flat part of its blade turned towards the finger, between the front of the sac and the external abdominal ring, till it arrives miderthe stricture formed by the lower edge of the transversalis and obiiquus iniernus. Then the edge of tlie instrument is to be turned forward and the stricture cut in tlie direction upward. This plan of not cutting the neck of the sac, is liable to ail the objections stated by Mr. Lawrence, in regard to the case in which the strangulation takes place at the external abdominal ring. Sir A. i^ooper 8 bistoury is a very proper one for dividing t . stricture, as it only has a cutting edge to acer nmy i„fer, thnt ,t is both most easv and a(lvn„t ' """^ west e ring, or higher up. The method of cutting the stricture from with- out inwards, I consider objectionable, on the ground of the risk of wounding the bowels in this mode being greater than that of any accident from wounding the epigastric artery, when it arises in an unusual manner, and deviates from its regular course; the possible occurrence of which accident made Dr Hesselbach, junior, an advocate for tliis questionab e practice. (See Sichersle Art de, tSruchschmttes, 4to. Bamberg. 1819 ) When the stricture is at the upper opening of the inguinal_ canal, the external ring should not be cut, unless it prevent the operator from reaching the more deeply seated strangulation, as is often the case. Dupuytren cuts the stricture upwards and forwards, using no director in this stage of the operation, because, as he says, the bistoury is apt to slip out of the groove, and wound the intestine, (bee Clm. Chr. t. i. p. 600.) Room being made for the reduction of the pro- truded parts into the abdomen, by the division of the stricture, they are to be immediately returned it sound, and free from adhesions. This obiect is considerably facilitated by bending the thi..h xhe intestines are to be reduced before the omen- tum, but, when a portion of mesentery is protruded It 13 to be returned before either of the precedin.^ parts. The intestine should always be reduced" unless It be found in a state of actual mortification! it otten appears so altered in colour, that an uiiin- tormed person would deem it Improper to return it into the abdomen. However, if such alteration should not amount to a real mortification, experi- ence justifies the reduction of the part. Sir A Cooper has judiciously cautioned the operator not to mistake the dark chocolate-brown dlscoloratlons for a state of gangrene. With these the protruded part IS frequently found affected; and, as they generally produce no permanent mischief, they ought to be carefully discriminated from the black- purple, or lead-coloured spots, which usually pre- cede mortification. To determine whether a dis- coloured portion of Intestine be positively mortified, some recommend pressing forward the blood coi\. tamed in the vehis; and if they fill again, it is looked upon as a proof that the bowel is still pos- sessed of life. In returning a piece of intestine Into the abdo- men, the surgeon should first introduce the part nearest the ring, into this aperture, and hold it there till another portion has succeeded It. This method Is to be continued till the whole of the protruded bowel is reduced. The employment of force or violence, in the endeavours to return the contents of a hernia in the operation, cannot be too severely reprobated ; a method the more pernicious, because such jiarts are more or less In a state of Inflammation. It is always better to enlarge the stricture, than pinch and bruise the bowel in trying to get it through an opening which Is too small. Disten- sion of the intestine sometimes prevents the reduction, but, when this is the only impediment, the part may generally be returned as soon as Its contents have been compressed into the intestinal canal above the stricture. It Is better, however, to dilate the strangulation a little more, than use any force in trying to get the Intestine back into the abdomen in the manner just suggested. Reduction is sometimes impeded by the pro-