5G the actual cautery was chiefly employed. Tlie other means for suppressing hemorrhage sciircety merit the name. Terrified at the insecurity and ill-con- sequences, J. de Vigo {Practka in Chirurgia cn- piosa, 491, Romfe, 1514) and Fabricius ab Aqua- pendente {Op. Chir. Venet. 1619) disapproved of amputating in the sound flesh, and returned to the principle, inculcated by the ancients, of making the incision in the mortified parts. Others endea- voured to lessen the peril of the bleeding by the rapidity with which the limb was removed, and the instantaneous application of the cauter}'. For this purpose, L. Botalli invented a sort of guillotine, by means of which a member was severed from the body in an instant {De Curandis Vtilnerihus Sclopetorimi. Lugd. 1560); while others laid a sharp axe upon the limb, and effected the dismemberment by the blow of a wooden mallet. This barbarous practice was once followed by Fabricius Hildanus, Avho is called by his coim- trymen the patriarch and ornament of German surger}', and who, previously to his acquaintance with the use of the ligature, was accustomed to amputate with a red-hot knife, the representation of which is given in his work. {De Gangran& et Sphaeelo, Op.} Hildanus became a better surgeon, however, as he grew older, and, in the end, partly contributed to the improvement of amputation, in- asmuch as he made the incisions completely in the sound parts, and adopted the method of tying the arteries, as then recently proposed by Pare ; though in weak persons he still preferred the actual cau- tery to the ligature. {Op. p. 814.) One of his inventions was a linen bag, or cap, for the stump ; and a sort of retractor for holding back the muscles. By many surgeons, however, the tying of arteries continued to be deemed too troublesome, and hence they persisted in the barbarous use of the 'actual cautery : of this number were Pigrai {Epitome des Preceptes de Med. et de Cldr. 8vo. Rouen, 1642), F. Plazzoni {De V^dn. Sclopei. 4to. Venet. 1618), and P. M. Rossi {Consult, et Ohserv. 8vo. Francof. 1616). Nay, so difficult was it to eradicate the blind attachment shown to the ancients, that Theo- doras Baronius, a professor at Cremona, publicly de- clared, in 1609, that he would rather err with Galen, than follow the advice of any other person ; and Van Hoorne seems even to have countenanced the detestable machine of Botalli. (MiK-poTe'xi"), p. 75.) Ambrose Pare, who flourished in the 1 6th cen- tury {Opera, Parisiis, 1582), and to whom I have already alluded, made some beneficial innovations in the operation of amputation. It is to his in- dustry, good sense, and skill, that we are chiefly indebted for the abolition of cauterizing instru- ments, and the general use of a needle and ligature for the suppression of the bleeding. (Lib. vi. c. 28, p. 224.) An anonymous writer has given the following account of the practice and opinions of this distin- guished surgeon in relation to amputation. " Pare' recommended to cut ofl: the whole of the gangren- ous part, if the limb be mortified ; but to encroach !is little as possible upon the'living flesh. At the same time he laid it down as a rule, not to leave a very long stinnp to an amputated leg ; because the patient could more conveniently make use of a wooden leg, with the stump only five finger-breadths long below the knee, than if much more of the Hesh were to be preserved. In the arm, however, he left the whole of the living and healthy portion of AMPUTATION. the member, only separating the diseased part from the sound. In preparing for amputation, he directs tlie skin and muscles to be drawn upwards, and bound tight with a broad bandage, a little above the part where the incision is to be made. This fillet was intended to answer a threefold purpose : Ist, To af- ford a quantity of flesh for covering the bone, and facilitating the cure. 2ndly, To close the extremities of the divided blood-vessels. 3rdly, To dull the patient's feelings, by pressure on the subjacent nerves. When this firm ligature has been applied, Pard directs an incision to be made down to the bone, either with a common scalpel, or a curved knife. Then, with a smaller curved knife, we are carefully to divide the muscles, or ligament, remain- ing between the bones of the forearm, or leg ; after which, we may proceed to saw off the bone as high as possible, and to remove the asperities oc- casioned by the saw. " With the assistance of a curved pair of for- ceps, he drew out the extremities of the bleeding arteries, either by themselves alone, or with some portion of the surrounding flesh, to be firmly tied with a strong double thread. He now loosened his bandage, brought together the lips of the wound over the face of the stump, and kept them as close as he could, without actual stretching, by means of four stitches or sutures. If the larger tied vessels should accidentally become loose, he desires the ligature, or bandage, to be again passed round ; or else, what is better, to let an assistant grasp the limb firm with both hands, and press with his fingers over the course of the bleeding vessel, so as to stop the hemorrhage ; then, with a square-edged needle, about four inches long, and a thread four times doubled, the surgeon must se- cure the artery in the following manner : — Thrust the armed needle into the outside of the flesh, half a finger's breadth from the vessel which bleeds, and bring it out at the same distance from the bleeding orifice : then surround the vessel with the ligature, pass it back again to within one finger's breadth of the place where it first entered, and tie a fast knot upon a folded slip of linen rag, to pre- vent its hurting the flesh. By this means, says Pare', the orifice of the artery will be agglutinated to the adjoining flesh so firmly, as not to yield one drop of blood : but if the hemorrhage were not considerable, he contented himself with the appli- cation of astringent powders, &c. "Thus did this lamous surgeon endeavour, by his single example and precepts, to exclude the bar- barous use of hot irons in amputation. He says, he knew not of any such practice among the old surgeons ; except that Galen recommended us to tie bleeding vessels, towards their origin, in acci- dental wounds: and he thought proper to do the same in cases of amputation. But, in an apology, at the end of his book, Pard has quoted in his own defence a dozen authors, who employed or recom- mended the ligature before him ; and he might have cited many more. " From the statement we have here given, it may be seen how far the best writers of almost every country have erred in ascribing the origmnl invention of tying arteries to Ambrose Pard. Great merit, indeed, was due to him, for the part he took in extending, and even reviving, this incomparable practice : nay, it is not certain n helher any one before Mm had ever applied the needle and ligature m