GANGRENE. ▼ '0-20 HOSPITAL and througli which, the discharge escapes. After twenty-four hours the first coat is to be removed, and a fresh one applied. In general, according to this writer, four or five such dressings are sufficient in simple cases, where the disorder is confined to the skin and cellular substance. Healthy inflam- mation then occurs, the sloughs come away, and the wound puts on a healing appearance. In bad cases, Duasassoy sometimes added one-fifth of pow- dered muriate of ammonia to the bark. When this treatment failed, the actual cautery was used. On the subject of bark as a local application to hospital gangrene, I need only remark, that it is now entirely relinquished, either as possessing no efficacy {Delpecli), or even aggravating the symp- toms (Blackadder). The milder forma of the disease appear some- times to have yielded to the application of the vegetable and diluted mineral acids ; viz. lime- juice, lemon-juice, vinegar ; and the diluted nitric and muriatic acids. And the same observation may be made with respect to solutions of the nitrates of silver and mercurj'. The two latter substances, and the oxygenated muriatic acid, and gas, were found by Dr. Hollo to be capable of effecting cures. Delpech, in particular, speaks of the benefit derived from the application of strong vinegar, after all the pulpy viscid matter has been carefully wiped away from the surface of the living flesh. The vinegar is then poured on the nicer, which is to be covered with charpie wet with the same liquid. When the case is too far ad- vanced for this treatment to answer, Delpech tries caustics, especially the nitrate of silver ; and, if these fail, he has recourse to the actual cauterj^; and when the sloughs are very thick, so as to hinder the cautery from acting to a sufficient depth, he prefers thrusting into the sloughs, down to the living flesh, angular pieces of caustic potash at small distances from each other! (Precis Elem. des Mai. Chir. t. i. p. 151.) Surely this must be far more torturing, and less certain of success, than removing the sloughs, and applying the cautery. Though the actual cautery is generally ad- mitted to be one of the most powerful means of stopping the progress of hospital gangrene, the surgeons of this country entertain a strong aver- sion to the practice ; and I confess that my own dislike to it is such as would always lead me to prefer any other treatment from which equal effi- cacy would result. At the same time it must be granted, that if the actual cautery will more cer- tainly arrest some forms of hospital gangrene than any otlier known applications, the surgeon's duty is to put out of the question his own prejudices against it, and consider only his patient's welfare. I am far from thinking, however, that while there are such powerful caustics as the undiluted mineral acids, and a dressing so eflectual as a solution of arsenic, it can often be absolutely necessary to employ red-hot irons. The merit of having pointed out in modern times the great efficacj' of Fowler's solution of arsenic, or liquor arsenicalis, as an application to phagedrena gangrajnosa, belongs to Mr. Black- adder. In answer to the objection that the external use of arsenic is not unattended with danger, he assures us that he has heard but of one instance of hospital gangrene in which any deleterious effects were supposed to arise from the absorption of the arsenic ; and "the patient in question was very soon cured of his imeasy, and possibly merely nervous symptoms (p. 50). " The first thing to be attended to in every case of disease (says Mr. Blackadder) is cleanliness, which, if always of great importance, is, in this in- stance, indispensable. The surface of the body ought to be made and kept perfectly clean by means of the tepid bath, or otherwise by a plen- tiful use of soap ; and the linen and bed-clothes should be frequently changed, particularly when soiled with matter from the sore." In order to make the sore perfectly clean, and free it from the viscous discharge, without producing considerable bleeding and pain, Mr. Blackadder recommends two large tin hospital teapots to be filled with a weak solution of the subcarbonate of potass. One of these solutions is to be cold, the other tepid ; because, sometimes one and sometimes the other is found most agreeable to the patient's feelings, though the warm is the most eifectuul in cleansing the sore. The liquid is to be poured over the sore, and received into a basin, which ought to be im- mediately emptied into another vessel placed at a distance from the patient. During this ablution, the glutinous matter which adheres to the sore may be gently detached, by means of small dos- sils of fine tow or lint ; but these (says Mr. Black- adder) should never be used for two different pa- tients, rigid economy, on occasions such as this, beirig a very mistaken principle. In these cases, the use of sponges (he justly observes) ought to be entirely laid aside, as they can seldom be used more than once with safety. When the sore has been thus cleaned, a piece of fine dry lint is to be spread over its surface, and gently pressed into all its depressions with the points of the fingers. When the lint is removed, a quantity^ of the dis- charge will be found adhering to it ; and this operation must be repeated with fresh pieces of lint until the surface of the sore is made perfectly clean and dry, According to Mr. Blackadder, the solution of arsenic will generally be found strong enough, when diluted with an equal part of water ; but in slight cases it answered when weakened with twice its quantity of water ; and, in a few ex- amples, it was employed without being at all diluted. Several pieces of lint of the same shape as the sore, but a little larger, are to be prepared ; one of these, soaked in the solution, is now to be applied to the cleaned surface of the sore, and re- newed every fifteen or thirty minutes, according to the time in which it becomes dry. "\^'hcn the iieat and inflammation are considerable, great relief will be derived from the frequent application of linen cloths, moistened with cold water, which must be kept from weakening the arsenical solution, by means of a small piece of oil-skin laid over the pieces of lint. When the disease extends into the track of a gunshot wound, Mr. Blackadder uses a syringe for cleaning the sore and introducing the solution. "A slip of fine lint, well soaked in the solution, may also be inserted by means of a probe, into the bottom of the wound ; and when the openings arc at no great distance (fro'" other), and not in the immediate vicmity of tne large nerves and blood-vessels, the lint may W drawn througli the wound in the form of a snton (p. 5.3). When the pain caused by the aPP"^?'" tion is very severe, and the constitution is irritaoie