v F 4 430 liad precisely the same character. In a third family, a brother and two sisters were horn with this disease. The eldest sister was affected with it only in one eye, the brother and youngest sister in both eyes. In a fourth family, three brothers and a sister had all congenital cataracts. {Saunders, On Diseases oftheEye, pp. 134,135.) One very remark- able example is recorded by Diipuytren (see Clin. C/iir. t. i. p. 39.), where a lady, her daughter, and three grand-children, were all afflicted with cataract. Children with congenital cataracts possess vari- ous degrees of vision ; but, when they are totally blind, their eyes not being attracted by external objects, volition is not exercised over the muscles of these organs, which roll about with an irregular, rapid, and trembling motion. I shall now proceed to speak of the manner of operating upon children. Until the time of Pott, the intention of surgeons, in couching, or depressing the cataract (as indeed the expression itself implies,) was to push the opaque crystalline downward, away from the pupil. Pott, con- scious that the cataract often existed in a fluid or soft state, was aware that it could not then be de- pressed ; and, therefore, in such cases, he recom- mended using the couching-needie for the express purpose of breaking down the cataract, and of making a large aperture in the capsule, so that the aqueous humour, which he believed to be a solvent for the opaque crystalline, might come into imme- diate contact with this body. This operation, sub- sequently to Pott, has been strongly and ably recommended by Hey, of Leeds, and Professor Scarpa, of Pavia. In the cases of children, it even received the approbation of Ware. {On the Operation of Puncturing He Capsule of the Crys- talline Humour, p. 9.) But, notwithstanding the utility and efficacy of lacerating the front layer of the crystalline capsule had been so much iiisisted upon by Scarpa and others, their observations were confined to the ca- taract in the adult subject, and, before the example set by Saunders, no one (excepting, perhaps, Gibson of Manchester) ventured to apply, as a regular and successful practice, such an operation to the eyes of infants and children. Tlie principle on which Saunders proceeded in his operations on the congenital cataract, was founded on the opinion, that the only obstacle to the absorption of the opaque lens is the capsule ; and that, as the latter also is most generally opaque, " the business of art is to eifect a permanent aper- ture in the centre of this membrane. This applies to every case of congenital cataract which can occur." Saunders used to overcome the difficulty of operating upon children, by fixing the eyeball with Pellicr's elevator, having the patient held by four or five assistants, dilating the pupil with bel- ladonna, and employing a very slender needle, armed with a cutting edge from its shoulder to its point, and furnished with a sharp point, calcu- lated to penetrate with the utmost facility. Before the operation, the extract of belladonna, diluted with water to the consistence of cream, is to be dropped into the eye, or, to avoid irritation, the extract itself may be smeared in considerable qu.antity over the eyelid and brow. In less than an hour, if there be no adhesions, it produces a full dilatation of the pupil, exposing to view nearly the whole anterior surface of the cataract. The CATARACT. application should then bo washed from the ap- pendages of the ej^e. In using the needle, Saunders most carefully abstained from doing any injury to the vitreous humour, or its capsule, audit was an essential point with him to avoid displacing the lens. In directing the extremity of the instrument to the centre of the capsule, he passed it either through the near the edge of this membrane (the operation now called keratonyads), or through the sclerotica, a little way behind the iris. By the first, which is called the anterior operation, Mr. Saunders con- ceived that less injury would be inflicted, and less irritation excited, than by introducing the needle behind the iris, through all the tunics of the eye. In every case, the first thing aimed at was the per- manent destruction of the central portion of the capsule to an extent equal to that of the natural size of the pupih If the capsule contained an opaque lens, Saunders used next to sink the needle gently into the body of the crystalline, and mo- derately open its texture, cautiously observing not to move the lens at all out of its natural situation. When the case was a fluid cataract, Saunders was content in the first operation with simply lace- rating the centre of the capsule, being desirous of avoiding to increase the irritation following the diffusion of the matter of the cataract in the aque- ous humour. ■ When the cataract was entirely capsular, Saun- ders acted with rather more freedom, as he enter- tained in this case less fear of inflammation: but, in other respects, he proceeded with the same ob- jects in view, which have been already related, and of which the princip.il consisted in effecting a permanent aperture in the centre of the capsule, without detaching this membrane at its circum- ference ; for then the pupil would have been more or less covered by it, and the operation im- perfect, " because this thickened capsule is never absorbed, and the pendulous flap is incapable of presenting a sufficient resistance to the needle to admit of being removed by a second operation." (P. 145.) Mr. Saunders found, that the greatest success attended the operation between the ages of eight- teen months and four years. The only particularity in Saunders's treatment of the eye after the operation, was that of applying the belladonna externally, for the purpose of mak- ing the pupil remain dilated, till the inflammation had ceased, so as to keep the edge of the iris from contracting adhesions with the margin of the torn capsule. This last practice is found to be so im- portant, that it is never neglected by any good operator of the present day. In leaving this part of the subject, I must advise every surgeon to read the interesting account of Saunders's practice, pub- lished by his friend and colleague. Dr. Farre. [The necessity for assistants, or any measures to overcome the resistance of the children, is now entirely obviated by the introduction of chloro- form : there are no patients who bear anieathetics better than children, and none in whom their aid is more valuable. Under the influence of chloroform the operation for congenital cataract can be per- formed vvitli the utmost facility, and frequently without even reddening the eye. The anterior operation is that preferred at tho present day, and is performed much after tho manner reconmiended by Mr. Saunders. More