435 CATARACT. 8th, flth, or, at latest, on the lOth day, Beer re- commends leaving the eye open, but screened above by a green-eye stiade, in a half-darkened chamber; and the patient is afterwards to be treated, until his eye is perfectly well, according to the rules already laid down as proper to be observed after couching. And especially when the patient has had cataracts in both eyes, iSoer thinks it as well to apprise him, in order to prevent unnecessary alarm, that, upon first going out into the open air, particu- larly in the evening, he will be for some moments al- most blinded, and then begin to see again, but every object will now appear covered with a white, shining circle, which at length goes off; though, in the open air, it will sometimes continue for several days. {Beer, b. ii. p. 300.) [In the former editiims of this work the follow- ing practice was quoted as proper to follow. " A few hours after the operation, Mr. Guthrie always bleeds the patient, whether pain comes on or not: and if it continue or afterwards takes place, he repeats the evacuation. In another few hours, if no amendment occur, he has recourse to a third bleeding. For the first twenty-four hours he does not wish the patient to be disturbed with purgative medicines, so as to produce any risk of the edges of the cornea being displaced, but after this period he exhibits saline aperients, and when much in- flammation is expected, he prescribes calomel com- bined with opiate confection ; and if the inflam- mation continue, he gives two grains of calomel with J or of a grain of opium, three or four times in the course of twenty-four hours, so as to affect the system, and prevent the bad consequences of inflammation of the iris and internal parts of the eye." Such was the general practice thirty years ago, and it was reserved for the late Frederick Tyrrell to break through the routine, and to point out the true principles by which we should be guided.— {Tyrrell, On Diseases of the £[ye, vol. ii. p. 427.) It seems to have been quite overlooked in the exces- sive fear of inflammation, that a certain amount of constitutional power is necessary for the healing of the extensive wound in the cornea, and that this draining away of the blood and exhausting of the patient was, in old or feeble persons, the very means to defeat that necessary object. Juster views are now entertained, and the practice in England at the present day is to watch the patient closely, depleting little, and treating each case according to its special requirements. Mr. Dixon makes some very excellent remarks on the evils attending the lowering and depleting system after extraction, and recommends the fol- lowing judicious course to be pursued : " As regards diet, patients are usually but little disposed to take much that is solid on the day of the opera- tion, good broth or beef tea being the most accept- able form of animal food ; but provided all appears to be going on well, most patients may be allowed a moderate quantity of solid animal food on the second or third day. Old and feeble persons, however, will require to have meat finely minced, or some other nutritious and light food, given in moderate quantities and at proper intervals, from the very day of the operation. With regard to Stimulants, it is impossible to lay down any ab- solute rule. Those habitually accustomed to take wine, beer, or spirits must by no mcatis be wholly debarred from them at a time when the nutritive powers of the body are called upon to form new material for rapidly repairing a breach of surface. In short, the surgeon's object must be carefully to regulate both food and stimidants according to the patient's previous habits ; neither keeping him too high nor too low, but as near as possiljle up to the ordinary level of healthy vigour.—{Dixon, On Dis- eases of the Eye, p. 341.)] The late Mr. Ware published some remarks on the bad consequepces of allowing foreign bodies of any kind, after the operation, to press unequally on the globe of the eye ; comprehending, under this head, the intervention of the edge of the lower eyelid between the sides of the divided cornea; the inversion of the edge of the lower eyelid ; and the lodgement of one or more loose eyelashes on the globe of the eye. To prevent the first accident, every operator, before applying the dressings, should carefully de- press the lower eyelid ; and before he suffers it to rise again, should take care that the flap of the cornea be accurately adjusted in its proper posi- tion ; and, that the upper lid be dropped, so as completely to cover it. After this, the eyelid should not be opened again for three or four days, that is, until there is good reason to suppose the wound in the cornea closed. The inversion of the lower eyelid is hurtful in consequence of its making the eyelashes rub against the eye. These shouH be extracted the day before the operation. For the mode of effecting a per- manent cure, see Trichiasis. Besides the danger to which the eye is exposed from the inversion of the edge of the lid, the eye may receive injury from the improper position of the eyelashes alone ; one or more of which dur- ing the operation may happen to bend inwards ; or, becoming loose, may afterwards insinuate them- selves between the inside of the lid and the eye. An eyelash bent inward should be rectified ; if broken off and loose, it should be removed. The following observations by Beer are inter- esting:—When the dressings have been unskilfully applied ; when the incision of the cornea has been made horizontally upon a large prominent eye ; when the fissure of the eyelids is exceedingly nar- row, or the patient is restless, a proper cicatris- ation of the wound in the cornea may not follow. Though the aqueous humour may collect in the anterior chamber, the partially united lamella3 of the cornea may be incapable of duly resisting the pres- sure of that fluid, and may consequently protrude in the form of a light-grey, semi-transparent, oval vesicle, extending nearly the whole length of the wound in the cornea, and being most prominent in the centre. The patient complains of an annoying sense of pressure in the eye, as in cases of protru- sion of the iris ; but the discharge of the aqueous humour has completely stopped, and therefore the anterior chamber presents its natural appearance, and the pupil its regular round shape, though the edges of the wound in the cornea are whitish and swollen. This case was formerly regarded as a prolapsus of the membrane of the aqueous humour; but Beer considers it as a sort of hernia of the cornea, termed ccraiocelc. Merely puncturing, or cutting away the cyst is of no service ; for, though the aqueous humour immediately flows out, the wound soon closes again and the tumor re-ap- pears, attended also with some risk of the iris fall- ing into the cyst, and becoming adherent to it. I - 2