724 FKAC immediately exposes it to such causes as may break it. HoweA^er, both the bones are frequently broken together. Bicliat in his account ofDesauU's practice, mentions, that fractures of the forearm often held the first place in the comparative table of such cases kept at the H6/tel-Dieu, and other records point to the same conclusion. Baron Dupuytren, states that in 1829, out of 109 fractures brought to the Hotel-Dieu, 23 were of the forearm, 16 being of the radius, 5 of both bones, aiid 2 of the ulna. In 1830, in 97 frac- tures, 22 were of the forearm, 16 being of the radius alone, 4 of both bones, and 2 of the ulna. [Mr. Lonsdale reports that out of 1901 fractures occurring during six years at the Middlesex Hos- pital, 386 were of the forearm ; of these 93 were fractures of both bones, 197 of the radius alone ; 64 of the ulna alone (its shaft) ; 30 of the olecra- non ; and 2 of the coronoid process. M. Malgaigne, out of 1024 fractures at the Hotel-Dieu, found 305 of the forearm ; of which 107 were of both bones ; 160 of the radius ; 29 of the shaft of the ulna : and 9 of the olecranon process. From all these records,it appears (if we exclude fractures of the olecranon, which in Mr. Lonsdale's table appear to be unusually numerous) that fractures of the radius alone are by far the most frequent, while fractures of both bones hold the second place, Jind fractures of the ulna the third.] Fractures of both hones may occur at the ex- tremities or middle of the forearm. They are most frequent iu the middle third, somewhat less common below, and very rare at the upper part, where the numerous muscles, and the con- siderable thickness of the ulna, resist causes, which might otherwise occasion a fracture. These accidents may be produced by direct exter- nal violence ; or indirectly by a fall on the palm of the hand. The former case is the more frequent; in the latter, the radius, from its more extensive connection with the hand, receives the greater part of the shock, and is usually the only bone broken. [The two bones may be broken at the same, or at different levels. The first will always be the case in a fracture caused by direct violence ; the second may happen when it is the result of a fall on the hand, in which case, the radius is first broken, and the force then tells upon the ulna, which in its turn gives wiiy at its weakest point. When they are broken at diff'erent levels, M. Malgaigne has always found the radius broken above the ulna, and this is what might be expected from the re- lative strength of the two bones above and below. An incomplete fractm-e, or bending of the bones, is m.t unfrequently met with in children ; iiideed, this kind of injury is much more common in the forearm than iii any other bones. M. Malgaigne believes that in these cases there is aluuist always a partial fracture, and not a mere bending ot the bone, the fracture being situated on the side of the convexity of the curve and extending through a portion only of the thickness of the bone.] Sometimes the bones are bi'oken in more than one place; the fracture is, in fiict, comminuted : Desaiilt speaks of a patient over whose forearm a ci\rt had passed, so as to break the bones, at their ni dclle ami lower part, into six distinct portions. Tho middle ones, notwiihstanding they were quite detached, united very well, with hardly any defurmiiy. The symptoms indicating fractures of the fore- arm are not likely to lead the surgeon into any mistake ; motion at a part of the limb, where it was previously inflexible ; a crepitus, almost always easily felt; sometimes a distinct depression in the situation of the fracture ; occasionally a projection of the ends of the fracture beneath the skin ; pain on moving the part; a noise sometimes audible to the patient at the moment of the accident; an inability to perform the motions of pronation and supination; and an almost constantly half-bent state of the forearm. [Displacement in the longitudinal direction sel- dom occasions the surgeon much trouble. It may take place to a slight extent when the fracture is oblique, but when it is transverse, the broken sur- faces seldom become so completely clear from each other as to enable them to overlap. When it does occur, this displacement is to be ascribed rather to the cause of the fracture than to muscular contrac- tion. An angular deformity, either forwards or backwards, may also be the result of the violence which causes the fracture; but the most important of all is the transverse displacement, in which the four pieces approach one another, and the inter- osseous space is diminished or entirely obliterated near the seat of fracture. This approximation is mainly due to the action of the pronator muscles; it is attended with an increase in the antero-pos- terior and a diminution in the transverse dimen- sions of the forearm ; it may aft'ect the two upper fragments only, the two lower maintaining their natural distance apart, or the converse of this maj'' happen. Lastly, there may be displacement in the direction of rotation, caused by the upper and lower portions of the fracture not remaining in an equal state of pronation or supination. Fractm-e of both bones in the immediate vicinity of the wrist-joint are not very frequent, although fractures of the radius alone in this situation are, as will be presently seen, exceedinglj'- common. It, however, is occasionally the result of a fall, pro- bably more violent than usual, on the palm of the hand. The injury produced is a fracture, generally transverse, of both radius and ulna, close to the wrist-joint, or, in children, through the line of union of the epiphyses ; the lower fragments are displaced directly backwards, and the superior consequentlj' project in front. (See R, W. Smilli, On Fractures, <f-c. p. 166.) This accident is very liable to be mistaken for a dislocation of the carpus backwards on tin fore- arm ; but the fracture may be known by the crepi- tation, by its greater mobilitx', and greater facility of reduction ; and also by the fact mentioned by Boyer, that the styloid processes are displaced backwards with tlie carpus, and will follow any movements imparted to the hand, while in disloca- tion the reverse of this is the case. Any disloca- tion of the wrist-joint is of extremely rare occur- rence. (Sec Dislocations.)] Trealmcnt.—In the reduction, and also in the subsequent treatment of a fracture of both bones, the forearm should be bent to a riglit angle with the arm, and the hand placed in a position between pronation and supination. For the reduction, mi assistant should take hold of the patienfs hand, and extend the fractured parts, while another n;ssistant makes counter-extension by fixing the iuimeiiis. Tiie snryi-on's atte ntion should be pai> ticnlarly directed to preserve the interosseous spaeej