1068 out of the question. And even in the most favour- able cases, the utmost which can be expected, is to stop the further advance of the disease, a perfect cure being extreme!}' rare. According to Beer, the first indication is to im- prove the state of the health by medicines and wgimen. For this purpose, a long time will be requisite ; and as for local treatment, in this case, little or nothing can be accomplished by it. Hence, the disease often continues to grow worse and worse; and, when the pain becomes violent, the best thing which the surgeon can do, both with the view to the functions of the organ and its form, is to let out the aqueous humour. But Beer re- probates, in the strongest terms, the plan some- times recommended, of plunging a trocar through the sclerotica into the vitreous humour, and keep- ing the tube introduced until a certain quantity of that humour is discharged. The method preferred by him, is that which is mentioned by Richter {Anfangsg. b. iii. p. 400), and consists in opening the cornea and capsule of the lens, as in the ex- traction of a cataract, discharging the lens and vitreous humour, and letting the coats of the eye collapse; but, in order to prevent any re-accumula- tion of fluid, he afterwards cuts away a little bit of the flap of the cornea. The eye is then to be dressed in the same manner as after the extraction of a cataract. (See Cataract.) In one case from injurj', where the lens was opaque and displaced, Dr. Mackenzie succeeded in curing the vitreous dropsy by repeatedly tapping through the cornea. {On Dis. of the Eye, p. 632, ed. 2,) The third species of hydrophthalmia, or that produced by an accumulation both of the aqueous and vitreous humours together, is excellently de- . scribed by Scarpa. He observes, that in every case on which he has performed the operation, and in other examinations of the different stages of the disease, made on the dead subject, he has con- stantly found the vitreous humour, more or less altered in its organisation, liquefied, and converted into water, according as the disease was ancient or recent. In some instances he could not dis- tinguish whether the increased quantity of the vitreous, or aqueous humour, had most share in the formation of the disease. In every eye affected with dropsy of the Vitre- ous humour, which Mr. Middlemore has had an opportunity of examining, the reticular arrange- ment of the hyaloid membrane was destroj'ed. {On Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 482.) The eyeball at first assumes an oval shape, end- ing in a point at the cornea; it enlarges in all dimensions; and in the end, projects from the orbit in such a manner, that it cannot be covered by the eyelids, disfiguring the patient's face as much as if an o.\'s eye were placed in the orbit. This disease (says Scarpa) is sometimes pre- ceded by blows on the eye, or temple; sometimes by an obstinate internal ophthalmia. In other instances, it is preceded by no inconvenience, ex- cept_ an uneasy sensation of tumefaction and dis- tention in the orbit, a difficulty of moving the eyeball, and a considerable impairment of sight. Lastly, it is sometimes preceded by none of these causes, or no other obvious one whatever, es- pecially when the complaint occurs in children of very tender age, from whom no information can oe obtamed. As soon as the eye has assumed an HYDROPHTHALMIA. oval form, and the anterior chamber has become preteniaturally capacious, the iris seems situated further backward than usual, and tremulates in a very singular way, on the slightest motion of the eyeball. The pupil remains dilated in evcrv de gree of light, while the crystalline is sometimes brownish from the very beginning of the disease- and sometimes it does not become cloudy till the affection has arrived at its highest pitch. The complaint then becomes stationary; and as the crystalline is not deeply opaque, the patient can distinguish light from darkness, and, in some de- gree, the outlines of objects, and brilliant colours But when the eye has acquired a larger volume and the whole crystalline lens has become opaque' the retina at last remains in a state of complete paralysis. In the last stage of the disease, to which the term lujMialmos, or ox-eye, is properly appli- cable, when the dropsical eye projects from tlie orbit, so as not to admit of being covered by the eye-lids, with the inconveniences already enume- rated, says Scarpa, others associate themselves, arising from the friction of the cilice, the secretion of gum, the flux of tears, the ulceration of the lower eyelid, on which the e3'e rests, and the ex- coriation of the eye itself. Hence, the dropsical eye is gradually attacked with violent ophthal- mia, attended with intolerable pains in the part affected, and in the whole head. The ulceration, also, does not always confine itself within certain limits, but continues to spread; first, depriving the cornea of its transparency; next, consuming the sclerotic; and, lastly, destroying progressively the other component parts of the eyeball. At the first appearance of dropsy of the eye, many surgeons recommended mercurials, and ci- cuta; astringent collyria; a seton in the nape of the neck; and compression of the eye. However, Scarpa has never yet met with a single well-de- tailed historj' of a dropsy of the eye, cured by these means. With regard to externals, he has learned, from his own experience, that when the disorder is manifest, astringent and corroborant collyria, as well as compression of the protuberant eye, are highly prejudicial. In such circumstances, making a seton in the nape of the neck, frequently bathing the eye in a lotion of mallows, and apply- ing to it a poultice, composed of the same plant, have enabled him to calm, for a time, that dis- agreeable sense of distention in the orbit, and over the forehead and temple of the same side, of which patients in this state make so much complaint, especially when they are affected with a recurrence of ophthalmia. But .is soon as the ej-eball begins to protrude from the orbit, and project beyond tlie e3-elids, he thinks there is no means of opposing the \siy grievous dangers which the dropsy of the eye threatens, except an operation, which con- sists in evacuating by incision the superabun- dant humours, then exciting gentle inflammation of the membranes, and suppuration witlun this organ. _ _ _ Beer's prognosis in the third species of hydroph- thalmia is at least as discouraging as that made by Scarpa; for the rapidity of the disease is said to be such as to leave scarcely a possibility of benefit being effected by anj' mode of treatment, and the case usually terminates in .an e.xophth.ilmia, and death. These melancholy events are said, by Beer, to be accelerated by paracentesis of the eye,