727 FRACTURE. 3 A 4 a case in which the upper fragment was ankylosed to the humerus. On an average the olecranon becomes firmly united about the twenty-sixth day. {DesauU.) 2. Fractures of ilie coronoid process.—These fractures are very rare. Two examples are no- ticed by Sir Astley Cooper: in one case seen by him several months after its occurrence, the ulna projected bacliwards whilst the arm was extended, but it could be drawn forwards, and the elbow bent without much difficulty, when the deformity disappeared. In the other instance, which was met with in the dissecting-room, the coronoid pro- cess which had been broken off was united by ligament, and so movable that, when the forearm was extended, the ulna glided backwai'ds upon the condyles of the humerus. Sir Astley Cooper is of opinion that the case admits of no other mode of union : he recommends keeping the arm steadily in the bent position for three weeks. ( On Dislo- cations, 4'c. p. 470.) [Mr. Liston mentions a case of this fracture from muscular action, in which the injury arose in con- sequence of the patient, a boy of eight years, having hung for a long time from the top of a high wall,' afraid to drop down. (Praci. Sure/. 3rd ed, p. 77.) Two cases are recorded in Mr. Lonsdale's tables from the Middlesex Hospital, but he only speaks of having seen one, and in this the process was felt more prominent than natural when the arm was extended, but very little retraction was pre- sent. (On Fractures, p. 162.) M. Malgaigne records two others in which this process is pre- sumed to have been fractured, and one which was met with by M. Velpeau in a dissection. [JVaiie des Fractures, vol. ii. p. 634.)] 3. Fractures of the shaft of the ulna are less fre- quent than those of the radius, and take place generally towards its lower extremity, where it is most slender and least covered. The fracture is almost always the result of a force acting imme- diately on the part fractured, as, for instance, when in a fall the internal side of the forearm strikes against a hard resisting bod \', or when the arm is raised to ward off a blow aimed at the head. The superior portion of the ulna is unable to move on account of its mode of connection with the humerus at the elbow ; but the inferior piece may be dis- placed towards the radius, partly by the weight of the hand, partly by the action of the pronator quadratus muscle. This displacement is less considerable than in fractures of the radius, and is sometimes so slight that there is danger of the injury being overlooked. The nature of the case is in moat instances easily ascer- tainable. Treatment.—An assistant should make whatever little extension may be necessary, and should in- cline the hand to the radial side of the forearm, while the surgeon pushes the flesh between the two bones, and applies an anterior and posterior splint in the manner recommended for fracture of both bones. [Special caro should be taken to support the hand in a line with the forearm, or even to direct it slightly towards the radial side, in order that its weight may not displace the lower fragment of the ulna and cause it to encroach on the interosseous space. For this purpose, besides fixing the hand securely to the anterior splint, a »ling of pasteboard or leather to afford equal sup- port to both forearm and hand will be found useful.] Fractures op the Radius Are the most frequent of those of the forearm, as proved by records noticed in the foregoing sec- tion. The radius being almost the sole support of the hand, and placed in the same line with the humerus, is, for both these reasons, more exposed to fractures than the ulna. These, whether trans- verse or oblique, near its middle part or extremi- ties, may be caused by a fall or blow on the fore- arm, sometimes by a fall on the back of the hand (see Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 182—184), or, as happens in most cases, by a fall on the palm of the hand. In fourteen examples of broken radius, referred to by Dupuytren, three were caused by falls upon the back of the hand, and eleven by falls upon the palm. These facts refute one of Cruveilhier's inferences thai the radius cannot be fractured by a fall upon the back of the hand. {Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 182.) When likely to fall, we extend the arm and let the hand come first to the ground, in which case the radius pressed between the hand on the ground, and the humerus, from which it receives the whole momentum of the body, is bent, and if the fall be sufficiently violent, broken either near its middle part, or which is more frequent, about an inch above it-i lower extremity. The right radius appears to be more frequently broken than the left, for in ninety-seven cases fifty-nine hap- peTied to the right arm. (See Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 181.) [It will be convenient to speak separately of—1, fractures of the upper extremity ; 2, frac- tures of the shaft; and 3, fractures of the lower extremity of the bone.] 1. Fracture of the upper extremity of the radius. —[Fractures of the head or neck of the bone are extremely rare, except as forming part of a com- minuted fracture of the elbow-joint. Sir A. Cooper never met with a case of fractm-e of the neck of the radius, and he thinks, therefore, that there must be some mistake in the assertion formerly made that they are of frequent occurrence. (0« Dislo- cations, SfC, p. 476.) M. Malgaigne mentions two cases of fracture of the head of the radius, both of which were complicated with fracture of the coro- noid process and dislocation backwards at the elbow, but has never seen an unequivocal fracture of the head or neck of the radius alone. {Traitt des Fractures, ^c. t. ii. p. 636.) Mr. South, how- ever, has recently repeated the statement that frac- ture through the neck of the radius is not uncom- mon, and is liable to be confused with dislocation of the bone forwards on the external condyle, but ho does not bring forward any facts to support this opinion. (See Trans, of Clielius, vol i. p. 658.) Sucli a fracture would probably be difficult to de- tect on account of this part of the bone being thickly covered with nuisclea ; but Sir A. Cooper thinks that a crepitus would bo produced by fixing tho external condyle of the humerus and rotating the radius, probably also the shaft iif the bono would be drawn forward by the action of the biceps muscle. 'J'ho most appropriate treatment would be that which has been recommended for iiacturo of the external condyle.] In all fractures of the bones of tho forearm, and particularly in those which are near tho head of the radius, a false ankylosis is to bo apprehended,