HiEMORRHAGE 85^ to tlie conclusion, tluit ivlieii several ligatures are cqiplied round an artery, with siifRcieiit tightness to cut through its internal and middle coats, al- though tlie cords be immediately afterwards re- moved, the vessel will alwa3's become impervious nt the part which was tied, as far as the first collateral branches, above and below the obstructed part. Dr. Jones thinks it reasonable to expect that the obstruction produced in the arteries of dogs and horses, in the manner he has related, '•might be effected by the same treatment in the arteries of the human subject ; and, if it should prove successful, it might be employed in some of the most important cases in surgery. The success of the late important improvements, which have been introduced in the operation for aneurism, may perhaps appear to most surgeons to have rendered that operation sufficiently simple and safe ; but, if it be possible to produce obstruction in the canal of an artery of the human subject in the above-men- tioned manner, may it not be advantageously em- ployed in the cure of aneurism, inasmuch as nothing need be done to prevent the immediate union of the extern;il wound?" Dr. Jones next ques- tions, whether this mode of obstructing the pas- sage of blood through the arteries may not also be advantageously practised in cases of bronchocele ? (P. 136.J Subsequent experimenters have not been equally successful with Dr. Jones in obtaining the oblite- ration of the cavity of the vessel after this operation. Did this difference depend upon their having tied the vessel only in one place ? Mr. Hodgson tried the experiment in two instances upon the carotid arteries of dogs, and in neither of them was the cavity of the vessel obliterated. The same expe- riment has been repeated by several surgeons upon the arteries of dogs and horses; but in no example, as far as Mr. Hodgson ktiows, has the complete ob- literation of the cavity of the vessel been accom- plished. However, as an effusion of lymph is an invariable consequence of the operation, the want of union is owing to the opposite sides of the vessel not being retained in a state of contact, so as to allow of their adhesion. (See Obs. on the Appli- cation of the Ligature to Arteries, <^c., hy B. Tracers, vol. iv. Med. Chir. Trans.) The presence of the ligature, in the common mode of its application, effects this object ; and, for the success of Dr. Jones's experiment, it appeared onl^' necessary that the opposite sides of the wounded vessel should be retained in contact, until their adhesion had been sufficiently accomplished to resist the passage of the blood through the tube. This object might probably be effected by compression; but the in- conveniences attending such a degree of pressure as would retain the opposite sides of an artery in contact at the bottom of a recent woimd, are too great to permit its employment. It occurred to Mr. Travers, that, if a ligature were applied to an artery, and suffered to remain only a few hours, the adhesion of the wounded surfaces would be sufficiently accomplished to insure the oblitriration of the canal ; and by the removal of the ligature at this period, the inconveniences attending its stay would be obviated. The danger produced by the continuance of a ligature upon an artery arises from the irritiuion which, as a foreign body, it pro- duces in its coats. Ulceration has never been ob- served to commence in less than twenty-four hours after the application of a ligature ; whilst it is an ascertained fact, that lyinph is in a favourable state for organisation in less than six hours, in a wound the sides of which are preserved in contact. {Jo?ies, chap. 4, exp. 1.) If it be sufficient, tlierefore, to insure their adhesion, that the wounded coats of an artery be kept in contact by a ligature only three or four hours, ulceration and sloughing may, in a great degree, be obviated by promoting the im- mediate adhesion of the wound. Justified by this reasoning, Mr. Travers performed several experi- ments, by which he ascertained that if a ligature be kept six, two, or even one hour, upon the carotid artery of a horse, and then removed, the adhesion is sufficiently advanced to secure the per- manent obliteration of the canal. It appeared probable that the same result would be obtained upon the healthy artery of a human subject. (Hodgson, On the Dis. of A rleries, <|fc. p. 228 et seq.) Mr. A. C. Hutchison, in the year 1800, tied the brachial arteries of two dogs, and removed the ligatures iramediittely after their application. In both instances, the complete obliteration of the canal of the artery was the consequence of the operation. (See Praelical Obs. i7t Surgery, p. 103.) fie has also tried this method, as modified by Mr, Travers, in an operation which he performed for a popliteal aneurism in a sailor, in Nov. 1813. A doubl« ligature was passed under the femoral ar- tery ; the ligatiu'es were tied with loops, or slip- knots, about a quarter of an inch of the vessel being left undivided between them. All that now re- mained of the pulsation in the tumor was a slight undulatory motion. Nearly six hours having elapsed from the application of the ligatures, the wound was carefully opened, and the ligatures untied and re- moved, without the slightest disturbance of the vessel. In less than half a minute afterwards, the artery became distended with blood, and the puis* tions in the tumor were as strong as they had been before the operation. Mr. Hutchison then applied two fresh ligatures : haemorrhage afterwards came on, amputation was performed, and the patient died. (See Pracl. Obs. in Surgery, p. 102, &c.) Now, as Mr. Hutchison chose to apply other liga- tures, on finding that the pulsation returned, the above case only proves that the artery was not ob- literated in about six hours ; and we are left in the dark respecting the grand question,namely, whether the vessel would have become obliterated by the effusion of coagulating lymph and the adhesive in- flammation, notwithstanding the return of circula- tion through it. As for the ha;morrh;ige which occurred, I think it might have been expected, considering the disturbance and irritation which the artery must have sustained in the proceedings absolutely necessary for the application of not less than four ligatures, and the removal of two of them. According to my ideas, only one ligature ought to have been used, and none of the artery detached. We also have no description of the sort of ligatures which were employed,— an essential piece of infor- mation in forming a judgment of the merits of the preceding method. The application, removal, and re-application of ligatures are not consistent with the wise principles inculcated by the late Dr. Jones and have, in more instances than that recorded by my friend Mr. Ilutcliison, brought on ulceration of the artery and hromorrhnge. The researches of M. Manec lead him to conclude, with all the best practical surgeons of the present time, tliat the re- moval of the ligature at an earlier period than that