152 ANEURISM. dually, and sooner or later incline to the side on which the least resistance is experienced. De Haen mentions an aneurism of the aorta, which first made its appearance between the second and third ribs of the left side, and which, instead of growing larger, as Is usual, subsided, and could neither be seen nor felt, for more than a niontii before the patient's decease, although, on opening the body, a tumor of the arch of the aorta was found, three times as large as the fist. De Haen imputes the sudden disappearance of the swelling to its weight, the yielding of the parts with which it was connected, and to its gravitating into the chest when the patient lay on his right side ; for the difficulty of breathing, and other complaints, produced by the pressure on the lungs, under- went a material increase as soon as the tumor ceased to protrude. The pulsations, which accompany true aneurisms, continue to be strong, until the inner coats of the vessel give way, or the layers of coagulated blood lodged in the sac are numerous. Hence, when soft swellings, situated near any large arteries, lose their pulsatory motion, their course, precise situ- ation, and other circumstances, ought to be most carefully investigated before any decision is made about the mode of treatment. [Together and synchronous with the pulsation, there is a bruit in the aneurismal sac, usually of a bellows, sawing, or rasping character. This is most intense when the aneurism is soft, but diminishes in distinctness as the tumor becomes consolidated by the deposit of laminated fibrine within it. It is loudest opposite the mouth of the sac, and ceases when the flow of blood through the tumor is ar- rested by the compression of the artery leading to it. ] In many instances, the most fatal accidents have happened, in consequence of incisions having been made in aneurisms, which were mistaken for abscesses, because there was no pulsation. Vesalius was consulted about a tumor of the back, which he pronounced to be an aneurism. Soon afterwards, an imprudent practitioner made an opening in the swelling, and the patient bled to death in a very short time. Ruysch relates, that a friend of his opened a tumor near the heel, not supposed to be an aneurism, and the greatest difficulty was experienced in suppressing the he- morrhage. De Haen speaks of a patient, who died in consequence of an opening, which had been made in a similar swelling at the knee, al- though Boerhaave had given his advice against the performance of such an operation. Palfin, Schlit- ting, Warner, Dupuytren, and others, have recordj;d mistakes of the same kind. (Sahatier, t. iii. p. 167.) Fenand, surgeon of the Hotel Dieu, mistook an axillary aneurism for an abscess, plunged his bistoury into the swelling, and killed the patient. "J\n etc tltmoin (Perreuvs semhlahles, commises par hs pralicicns tion vioins famcux; et si des aneurismes exlemes on passe a cetix des arieres plactes a Viniericuv, les erreurs tic sont ni 7>toins ordinaires ni de moindre conseqtieiwe.'''' {liiche- rand, Nosogi: Chir. t, iv. p. 75, ed. 2.) Notwithstanding a pulsation is one of the most prominent symptoms of an aneurism, it is not to be inferred, that every swelling which pulsates is unquestionably of this description; for, as Mr. Warner has e.Nplaincd, it does happen that mere imposthumations, or collections of matter, arising from external as well as internal causes, are sometimes so immediately situated upon the heart itself, and at other times upon some of the prin- cipal arteries, as to partake, in the most regular manner, of their contraction and dilatation. He details the particulars of a ha}', about thirteen years of age, whose breast-bone had been badly fractured, and who was admitted into Guy's Hos- pital a fortnight after the accident had happened. The broken parts of the bone were removed some distance from each other. The interme- diate space was occupied by a tumor of a con- siderable size; the integuments were of their natural complexion. The swelling had as regular a contraction and dilatation as the heart itself, or the aorta could be supposed to have. Upon pressure, the tumor receded ; upon a removal of the pressure, the tumor immediately resumed its former size; all these are allowed to be dis- tinguishing signs of a recent tnie aneurism. The situation and symptoms of this swelling were judged sufficient reasons for considering the nature of the disease as uncertain ; on which account it was left to take its own course. The event was, the tu- mor burst in about three weeks after his ad- mission; discharged a considerable quantity of matter; and the patient did well by very super- ficial applications. (Cases in Surgery, ed. 4, p. 155.) [The diagnosis of pulsating tumors of bone, whether encephaloid or not, from aneurism, is at- tended by no little difficulty. In many cases, the situation of the tumor, away from any large arterial trunk, its inconipressibilitj', irregular outline, and firmer connection, or rather incorporation, with the bone, will enable the surgeon to avoid the error of confounding it with an aneurism. But in other instances, when seated at the brim of the pelvis, in the gluteal region, or in other situations where aneurisms are apt to occur, the greatest difficulty will occur, and the most experienced surgeons have erred in their diagnosis, and have ligatured the artery, on the supposition that they had to do with an aneurism, when, in reality, it was a case of pulsating tumor of bone. It may be observed, that these pulsating osseous growths are chiefly connected with the heads of the long bones.] Under certain circumstances, a psoas abscess may be mistaken for an aneurism ; as, for in- stance, when it occasions a small, soft, moveable swelling over the femoral artery in the groin, ac- companied by a strong pulsatory motion. The tumor may be lessened by pressure, even in the erect position, and rapidly returns on the discon- tinuance of such pressure, as would be the case in aneurism. The pulsation is manifest ; but, after the swelling has been lessened by pressure, its sudden resumptimi of size in the erect position is not accompanied by the peculiar pulsatory thrill felt in an aneurism. In a psoas abscess, the swell- ing does not return in the same degree on the removal of the pressure, as in a case of aneurism. During the retrocession of the purulent tiuid, the course of the artery may be more readily examined. In cases of psoas abscess, the swelling has gene- rally been preceded by pains in the back and loms, of some standing, which continue with weakness of one or both extremities. (See Guthrie, On Uis. (if Arteries, p. 120.) , As Mr. Wilson has observed, any encysted, or even solid tumor, situated in the neighbourhood