ANiEMIA, lor aneurism of the subclavian arterj', I have long made up niy mind that it would be sound practice to ligature conjointly with the innominate artery the connnon carotid close to its origin. With respect to the aorta itself, if this vessel should be again ligatured in the human subject, it is evident .that the supply of blood to the lower exU'emities would be greatly influenced by the level at which the ligature was applied to that vessel. If below the inferior mesenteric artery, the position selected by Sir Astley Cooper, the small anastomosing branches of the lumbar arteries, witii the ilio- lumbar, lateral and middle sacral arteries, aided by the communications of the epigastric with the mammaria interna, would be the principal channels depended upon, which it is to be feared will never be found sufficient to carry on the circulation in the lower extremities, whereas, if the ligature be applied above the- inferior mesenteric artery the free anastomosis this vessel has with the superior mesenteric artery would ensure an ample current of blood into the aorta itself for the support of the lower limbs. The instances here given may be iufficient to draw the attention of surgeons to the important fact that it is by no means a matter of indifference at what level on a main artery a liga- ture should be applied, when it is considered that the double object of curing an aneurism and of carrying on the circulation of the blood is to be provided for.] The best general account of the anastomoses in relation to aneurism is contained in Scarpa's Treatise on A?ieurisni, more especially the Italian edition, which is embellished with beautiful engravings. ANEMIA (from a priv. and aT/xa blood. De- ficiency of blood). This term implies such a dimi- nution of the quantity of blood in the sanguiferous system, or in any part of it, as is inconsistent with health. By medical writers it is sometimes re- stricted to a state of bloodlessness from defective haematosis, but the condition of the system is strictly analagous, whether produced directly by accident, by the abstraction of blood as a remedy, or by disease. In all cases the constitution of the blood remaining in the system is altered; the pro- portions of its constituents being changed by the absorption or imbibition of albuminous and saline fluids from the alimentary canal or the tissues through which the vessels permeate. The most important change is a diminution in density, pro- duced by a smaller proportion of solids and espe- cially of red corpuscles, the proportions of fihrine, albumen, fatty matters, and salts remaining little or not at all affected. After repeated liemorrhago, rumishing the least complicated form of ana;mia, the red corpuscles have boon known to sink to 27 in 1000 parts, and they are said to become rela- tively richer in hasmatin and poorer in globuline ; their specific gravity being greater, and their ten- dency to sink in the liquor sangniuis increased (Lehmann). Thus true ansemia implies a degree of hydrEcmia, but the latter must not be mistaken for its essential character. Although the effects of a diminution of the quantity of blood in the blood-vessels are in many respects similar, from whatever cause it may be produced, yet they differ somewhat according as the diminution may have arisen from antihygienic influences or direct loss ; and in the latter case according to the rapidity of the flow, the quantity 127 extravasated, and the previous state of the indi- vidual. Aniemia often arises from, and is accord- ingly complicated with, disease of one or more of the organs of hajmatosis, as of the lungs or liver ; but the study of the morbid effects of direct loss of blood is essential to a just appreciation of its symptoms and results. The immediate effects of a sudden loss of a considerable quantity of blood, the quantity varying according to the previous state of the sanguiferous system and the general constitution of the individual, are at first a feeble and slow, and then a quick and fluttering pulse, sense of sinking, slowness of respiration interrupted with deep sighs and eructations, pallor of the countenance and especially of the lips, pallor and coldness of the general surface, vertigo, loss of consciousness, and syncope. When the bleeding has been arrested, not having proved sufficient to cause death, consciousness gradually returns and is usually attended with nausea, vomiting, irre- gular sighing and yawning, the return of the pulse, of the colour, of the warmth of the bod}', and re- covery. When the flow continues a fatal result may be rapidly produced, the syncope may return again and again, the respiration becoming diaphrag- > matic and nearly imperceptible, and the patient may expire in one of the fainting fits, particularly if in an erect posture. Or tiiere may be gradual sinking, with the faculties entire to the last ; or delirium may occur with or without convulsions, followed, especially in children, by coma ; or there may be stertorous breathing and involuntary dis- charge of the contents of the bladder and lower bowels. With these symptoms there is first an intermittent, then an imperceptible pulse, rest- lessness and jactitation, tremors and shudderings, struggles for breath, tetanic spasms or convulsions, loss of animal heat, and death. When a large and rapid loss of blood does not result in death, reaction usually supervenes. The pulse becomes quick and more or less sharp and bounding although easily compressed ; there are palpitations and throbbings in different parts of the bodj', particularly in the arteries of the head and often in the anrta ; the trunk is often hot while the extremities are cold; there is hurried respiration, often attended with anxiety and sigh- ing, and an excessive desire for fresh air ; pain or sense of pressure in the head with intolerance of light and noise ; agitated sleep with dreams, and on awaking, delirium, or a sense of impending dis- solution. There is also inten.se thirst. During this state convulsions and coma are very liable to occur particularly in children, and fatal exhaustion may suddenly supervene, especially on assuming an erect posture, or on any considerable exertion When the reaction terminates in recovery it is succeeded by a state of debility with more or less of the ire- nenil symptons of anremia presently to be described. When bloodlessness is produced by losses in small qnanli i,sjreqmnthi repeated, the effects are somewhat different They are slow and insidious m proportion to the frequency of the repetition and the smallness of the quantity. They are ex tremely various ; partaking, on the one hand, of those which have been described as resulting from excessive loss and the consc(|uent reaction ; and on the other, of the symptoms of permanent aiiie- mia however produced ; and thus depend upon, or are very materially modified by, tlie age, tcmpe'ra- ment, and constitution of the individual.