ANEUllISM. 153 of, or upon, a lai'ge aiterj-, may have n consider- able degree of motion comnninicated to it from the pulsation of the artery. The thyroid gland, when a hronchocele is formed, occasionally re- ceives a pulsatory motion from the carotid arte- ries. This may be mistaken for an aneurism ; from which disease, however, it can be discriminated by placing oiu- fingers behind the tumor, and draw- ing it forwards, when the pulsation ceases. But there are other criteria for distinguishing a swell- ing, on or near an artery, from an aneurism. In such a case the whole tumor moves at once, without any alteration of size. In an aneurism, the swelling does not simply move, it expands. A tumor of the thyroid gland, having apparently a pulsatory motion, may be known not to be an aneurism of the carotid, by observing, that, from its connection with the larynx, it follows the movements of the latter in deglutition. Aneu- risms, not of very long standing, and not con- tainuig a large mass of laminated coagula, may also be diminished, or rendered more or less liac- cid, by pressing the artery leading to the disease. (See Wilson on (he Blood, Anatomy, Falhology, <^f. of ike Vascular St/stem, p. 305 ; and Burns on llie Heart, p. 257.) In cases of much am- biguit}', the stethoscope will sometimes convey the necessary information. In a doubtful instance of aneurism of the groin, Sir Benjamin Brodie found all obscurity cease on the"application of this instrument. {Sir A. Cooper's Lectures, vol. ii. p. 46.) Whenever an aneurism of immoderate size beats strongl3^, and for a long while, against the bones, as the sternum, ribs, clavicle, and vertebrie, they are in the end injured or destroyed, the aneuris- mal ,tumor elevating the integuments of the tho- rax, or back, and pulsating immediately under the skin. Scarpa, with the best modern writers, at- tributes the effect to absorption, in consequence of the pressure. [The pressure effects of aneurisms are important. Accompanying veins are narrowed, thickened, and even obliterated. Arterial trunks in the neighbourhood of the tumor maybe obliterated by its pressure, as sometimes happens at the back of the neck, or eroded and opened, as I have seen happen in the pulmonary artery from an aortic aneurism ; or the parent trunk itself may be obliterated by the pressure of the sac. Nerves are stretched and rendered tortuous, waving, or are flattened out into ribbon-like expansions. Organssuffer seriousinterruptions to theirfunctions, and the elimination of tlicir secretions may be interfered with by the compression of their duets. By pressure on the trachea and cesophagus respi- ration and deglutition may be seriously impeded. The bones become eroded, and if flat may be perforated by as smooth and circular an aperture as if cut by the trephine.] The carious and corroded state of the bones in aneurism is never attended with the formation of pus ; "at least, the discovery of pus in its vicinity has not been remarked by those who liave ex- amined such cases. In this respect, therefore, it di.tfers essentially from common caries, or \ilcer- ution of bones. Exfoliation also is very rarelv attendant upon it: from which circ'.imstanco,ono im- portant practical observation is deducible, namely, that if the aneurism be cured, the bones will recover their healthy state, without undergoing those processes which take place in the ciu'e of ca- ries or necrosis. (See Hodyson,On theDis. of Arteries and Veins, p. 00.) That this process of absorption in bone, in consequence of the pressure of an aneurism, may be caused by other tumors, is finely exemplified in a thigh-bone preserved in the Museum of University College. The bone has been reduced by the pressure of a tumor, which grew at the back of the limb, to a mere spindle, that has not been able to resist the efforts of the muscles, by which it has been twisted in a singular degree. The absorption of bone from the pressure of aneurisms, is of that description, termed by Mr. Hunter progressive, in which, as Mr. Guthrie observes, the action of the small arteries, necessary to constitute inflammation, is wanting, and consequently there is little com- parative pain at the commencement of the process, and no formation of matter. (See Guthrie, On Diseases of Arteries, ^'c. p. 57.) Mr. Hodgson confirms the remark made by Dr. W. Hunter (Med. Obs. and Inquiries, vol. i. p. 384), Scarpa {On Aneurism, p. 100, ed. 2), and others, that cartilage is less rapidly destroyed by the pressure of an aneurism than bone. This fact is strikingly illustrated in a case of aneurism of the thoracic aorta recorded in another modern publication: the bodies of the vertebra;, from the fourth down to the ninth were carious ; the four lowest in particular ; yet the intervertebral carti- lages were not materially affected. {F. L. Kreysig, Die Krankheiten des Herzens, h. iii. p. 176, 8vo. Beriin, 1817.) In the Museum of University College are fine specimens of the perfect state of the intervertebral substance, though the bodies of the vertebras have greatly suffered. A case is related by Pelletan, to which I refer the reader, as exemplifying not only the degree, in which internal aneurisms may injure the ver- tebra;, but also the occasional possibility of such diseases being mistaken for rheumatism, or a lum- bar abscess. (See Clinique Chir. t. i. p. 9 7 100.) Causes of Aneukism. An aneurism will not follow the kind of weak- ness of the sides of an artery, which must necessa- rily arise from removing its external and middle coat, some morbid changes seeming to be essential to bring on a protrusion of the inner coat. Neither will a mechanical division of the inner tunics lead to an aneurismal dilatation of the outer coat. The latter fact is proved by what liappens when a tight ligature is placed upon an artery, as well as by the experiments of M. Amussat who purposely broke the internal coats in numerous places by pinching the vessels with forceps, and detaching the mner coats from the outer, by a process somewhat similar to what he adopts in torsion of the arteries. By proceedings of this kind, he never succeeded n. producing the beginninij of an aneurism. The inference, therefore, is, that some description of morbid change in the coats of the artery is necessary for the formation of aneu- rism, so long as the occurrence is resibted by a perfect state of one of those coats ; or else wo must arrive at the stiil more certain conclusion, that in tlie experiments undertaken by Hume, Amussat, and others, the irritation of the artery was fol! lowed jjy inllammation of it, coagulation of the blood, and such nn effusion of fibriiic, within and