half after the operation. During this short time, the temperature of the lower limbs was equal to that of the trunk ; but it fell in every part of the body. The p.-irticulars of the post mortem examin- ation are interesting; but I can only state here, with reference to Brasdor's operation, tliat " the e-xternal iliac artery did not terminate in the fe- moral, as usual, but gave off two trunks of nearly equal size ; and from the inner, which corresponded with the profunda, the epigastric was given off." Mr. James does not regard then the result of iiis attempt as unfavourable to Brasdor's method; "for a considerable and satisfactory alteration was pro- duced by tying only one of the trunks which led from the iliac, and had the distribution been na- tural, it is not improbable," says he, "a cure would have been obtained." (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvi. p. 14.) On this subject I find the following observations made by my friend Mr. Crosse: — "I meet yearly with recorded insf.mces of a portion of the aorta being entirely obliterated, and the accounts of such cases are often followed by a word of encou- ragement to repeat the application of a ligature to this vessel. Astley Cooper, James, and Murray, are the only names associated with this under- taking; and its intrepid originator allows me to say, that he would not repeat the operation, e.xcept under an improved and a more safe plan of con- ducting it; approaching to the sentiments of a recent writer, who sums up a full consideration of the subject by remarking that the operation ought not to be again performed." {Crosse, in Prov. Med. and Stirg. Trans, vol. v.) I am disposed to be of this opinion myself; and, at all events, believe with Mr. Guthrie, that the ligature of the aorla may be in almost every instance superseded by that of the common iliac artery. I think also with him, that if the operation ever succeed, it will be when the aorta is taken up by passing the finger under the peritoneum, along the common iliac artery, up to that vessel. (See Guthrie,op. cit. p. 372.) [Since the above was written, two additional cases of ligature of the abdomin.al aorta have been published, making five altogether. The fourth case occurred in the practice of Dr. C. B. Monteiro, at Rio Janeiro. The case was one of false diffused aneurism of the fcm.oral artery, forming a large swelling situated in the lower part of the abdo- minal cavity, on the right side. The operation was performed Aug. .5th, 1842. The ligature was applied behind the peritoneum, two lines above the bifurcation of the aorta. The palient died on the tenth day after the operation of secondary hsEmorrhage, arising from a small opening in the aorta immediately above the ligature. (South, Translation of Chelius, p. 2.5.5.) The last and fifth case on record was \mder the care of Mr. South, in St. Thomas's Hospital. This was for an aneurism of the false and diffused kind, affect- ing the common iliac artery, in a robust young man, aged tv/enty-eight. The tumor was large, occupying the right side of the abdomen, extendmg from the iliac fossa to near the cartilages of the ribs. The opcnition was performed on the 21st of .linu-, 18.56. An mcisicii was made <m the left side from a little above the anterior superior spinous process of the ilmm, to just below the cartilage of the tenth rib. Xhe peritoneum was raised from the lateral and posterior wall of the abdomen, and a ligature was passed arouiul the aorta from right to left, just AORTA. 279 above the bifurcation. The patient survived the operation forty-three hours. {Lancet, for July l-2lh and Aug. 23rd, 1856.) The peritoneal cavity has been so frequently and extensively opened of late years, in the operation for the removal of ovarian cysts, that the opinions of surgeons with regard to abdominal surgery in general, and more especially in reference to the risks attending wounds of the peritoneum have been materially modified. It has been abundantly shown, that the danger of such wounds, when intentionally made by the surgeon with clean cut- ting instruments and without bruise or violence to the contained viscera, has been over estimated. With this knowledge before him the surgeon of the present day should, it appears to me, give the preference to Sir Astley Cooper's method of cutting directly through the peritoneum to expose the aorta, if called upon to apply a ligature to that vessel. The danger attending this formidable operation, judging from the cases on record, does not appear to arise so much from the wound of the peritoneum as from the want of adequate circulation in the lower extremities, especially on the side of the anenrismal swelling. This latter c:iuse of failure may fortunately, in future operations, to a great extent, be provided against, by applying the liga- ture above instead of below the giving off of the inferior mesenteric artery : by this proceeding a stream of blood corresponding to the size of the anastomosing branch of the middle and right colic arteries would be available for the supply of the lower limbs. The amount of blood entering the aorta by the inferior mesenteric artery through the channel above indicated, would appear to be a suitable quantity for the purpose of ensuring the required circulation, without distending the aneu- risma! sac so as to endanger its rupture. From the above considerations, I am not alto- gether opposed to the performance of this operation where it offers the only chance of life, nor should I be greatly surprised to hear that a successful case of ligature of the aorta in the human subject had been added to the triumphs of operative surgery.] Rupture of the Aorta within the Pericardium. The surgical writings of Scarpa, in relation to the formation of aneurisms, have now gained e.x- tensive celebrity in the world. It is well known that this author maintains the doctrine, that, in all aneurisms, the intern.al and muscular coats of the artery are ruptured ; and that the anenrismal sac is not formed of these tunics, but of the dilated celhilar sheath which surrounds the vessel. When a large aneurism bursts, there is always a double rupture ; one of the artery, another of the aneu- risnial sac. The last is that which is the immedi- ate cause of the patient's destruction, by altering the circnmscnbcd state of the aneurism into t\\^ diffused There are some exceptions, however to the" (oregoing statement; and Scarpa has not failed to point them out. When the internal and muscular coats of the aorta arc ruptured in a situation where the outside of the vessel is only covered by a thin tense, closely adherent membrane, such membrane may be ruptured at the same time with the proper coats of the artery, and sudden death be occa- sioned by the effusion of blood in the cavity of the thorax, 'i'hese events are liable to happen when- ever the proper coats of the aorta are ruptured t4