! for, if this be obliterated, the radius Cannot rotate i on the ulna, nor the motions of pronation or supi- 1 nation be executed ; and this object may be ob- tained with certainty by applying compresses and splints in such a manner that the fleshy parts may be forced into, and confined in, the interosseous space. Boyer first applied two longitudinal and gra- duated compresses on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the forearm. These he retained in their position by a bandage, and he then applied an anterior and posterior splint. Both compresses and splints extended from tlie elbow to the wrist. In general, the longitudinal compresses, used by Boyer, for preserving the interosseous space, are not resorted to England ; [but anterior and pos- terior splints only are applied, and retained in their position by a bandage or by straps and buckles. The effect of a compress may be obtained in a more simple manner, by having the splints more thickly padded at the centre than at the sides, or by using convex splints, as suggested by Mr. Ames- bury. It is desirable also that the breadth of the splints should slightly exceed the breadth of the forearm, in order to prevent the bandage from exer- cising auy lateral compression. For the same rea- son, it is better not to apply any bandages beneath the splint?, as recommended by Boyer. The palmar splint should extend as far as the fingers, to support the hand and retain it in a line with the forearm ; for, when both bones are fractured, if the hand be permitted to hang down, its weight may produce an angular deformity at the seat of fracture.] The splint, however, should not pass beyond the first joint of the fingers ; for many pa- tients, after having had their fingers kept, for seve- ral weeks, in a state of perfect extension, have been a very long time in becoming .able to bend them again. The posterior splint need not pass beyond the wrist. If the fracture be simple, and the contusion in- considerable, the patient need not be confined to bed, but may walk about, with his arm in a sling. [The above treatment, with the hand in a state of semi-pronation, is that most usually adopted, and is certainly the most convenient to the patient. Some surgeons, however, recommend that the fore- arm should be kept in the supine position during the treatment. Mr. Lonsdale advocates it on the ground that, by the usual method, the radius is likely to unite with its lower piece more pronated than the upper, and that the movement of supina- tion is afterwards often imperfect in consequence. The splints in the ordinary method, according to Mr. Lonsdale, retain the lower portion of the ra- dius securely in one position, but do not prevent the upper piece from rotating on its axis, and in most instances it does so rotate in the direction of supination under the influence of the biceps and the supinator radii brevis, more capccially if the fracture be above the insertion of the pro- nator radii teres, for then the two first-named muscles are not contrncted by any antagonist what- ever. He thinks that the supine position will ob- viate this inconvenience by bringing the axis of the lower piece, which is so mucli more easily acted upon, into correspondence with that of the upper. Another argument for tlie supine position is mentioned by Mr. Lonsdale, and in this M. Malgaigne also concurs, namely, that by it the interosseous space is more easily preserved, and the FRACTURE. 725 bones have not the same tendency to fall towards each other as when the radius is partly rotated across the ulna. M. Malgaigne recommends it, therefore, when there is any difficulty in maintain- ing the interosseous space, but in an ordinary case he thinks that the usual semi-prone position is less inconvenient and equally advantageous. (See Lonsdale, On Fractures, p. 123 ; and Malgaigne, vol.i. p. 591.)] Fractures op the Ulna. [It will be necessary to consider separately: 1. Fractures of the olecranon. 2. Fractures of tlie coronoid process. 3. Fractures of iJie shaft of the ulna.'] 1. Fracture of the olecranon process. [This fracture is not very uncommon. It is almost al- ways caused by external violence directly applied to the part by a blow or fall on the elbow ; but in some rare instances it has been known to be produced by the violent action of the triceps muscle. The fracture may happen at its base, its centre, or its extremity; the second case is by far the most frequent. The division is usually transverse, but occasionally it is more or less oblique. M. Mal- gaigne has met with cases of fracture at the base of the process which extended obliquely downwards and backwards so as to include an inch and a half or more of the posterior surface of the ulna. Frac- tures of the summit of the olecranon are the most uncommon ; in two cases mentioned by Malgaigne, tbey were the result of muscular action, which had torn o2^ the surface of bone receiving the insertion of the triceps.] With regard to symptoms, the contraction of the triceps, being no longer resisted by any connection with the ulna, draws upward the short fragment to which it adheres, so as to produce between it and the lower one a more or less evident inter- space. This interspace is situated at the back of the joint ; it will be increased by flexion of the forearm, and diminished by its extension. Another sj'mptom is a difficulty or inability of the patient to extend his forearm, the necessary effect of the detachment of the triceps from the ulna. It appears from the dissections made by Sir Astley Cooper, that the extent of the separation depends upon the degree of laceration of the capsular ligament, and of that portion of the internal lateral ligament which proceeds from the side of the coronoid process to that of the olecranon. {On Dislocations, ^c. p. 487.) [The periosteum covering this process is also considerably strengthened by aponeurotic fibres prolonged downwards from the insertion of the triceps tendon.] It must be owing to the untorn state of these parts that sometimes no appreciable separation takes place, and that patients occasionally retain the power of extending the forearm, as is exempli- fied in the case reported by Mr. Earle, where, on the sixth day after the accident (and not before), this power was destroyed by a sudden flexion of the forearm. {Practical Ohs, p. 147.) The fore- arm is constantly half bent, the biceps and brachi- alis having no antagonists. The olecranon is more or less drawn up above the condyles of the hume- rus, which latter parts, on the contrary, are natu- rally situated higher than the olecranon when the forearm is half bent. The upper piece of bone may bo moved in every direction, without the ulna participating in the motion. Besides these svmn- 3a3