FRACTURE. 757 of the same length should be placed on the upper side, comprehending both joints in the same manner. Tlie strong muscles of the leg being relaxed, the surgeon is to make such extension as seems re- quisite for biiiiging the ends of the fracture into even apposition. Then he is carefully to raise the leg a little way from the surface of the bed by taking firm hold of the limb above and below the fracture, and elevating the broken bones together, in such a way as shall keep both the upper and lower portions as nearly as possible on the same level. At this moment an assistant should put ex- actly beneath the leg the under splint, which has been previously made ready by covering it with a soft pad, and laying over this an eighteen-tailed bandage. The limb is now to be gently depressed till it rests on the apparatus. The surgeon, before proceeding further, must once more observe that the ends of the bones are evenly in contact. Being assured of this important point, he is to apply a piece of soap-plaster, and lay down the tails of the bandage. Another soft pad, well filled with tow, is next to be put over the upper surface of the leg, and over that the other splint, and then the straps are to be fastened. This mode of treatment, as preferred by Pott and his followers, is seldom adopted at the present time. The disadvantage of leaving the limb, and especially the knee, movable, must be self-evi- dent; and whoever has had the opportunity of observing the treatment of fractures of the leg in a slightly flexed position, on M'Intyre's double inclined plane, with the patient on his back, must be fully convinced of its superiority and greater simplicity. No eighteen-tailed bandage is re- quired. The whole limb, including knee and foot, is kept perfectly steady. A circular hole, as advised by Mr. Listen, is made in the apparatus under the heel, so as to lessen the pressure in that situation, and the chance of ulceration, or sloughing. The apparatus, lined by proper pads, receives the limb ; the foot is supported upon the foot-piece, with the intervention of soft materials ; and the limb, from the lower part of the thigh down to the toes, is then encircled, together with the double inclined plane and its foot-piece, with common rollers. Of these we generally employ three; one for the thigh, knee, and upper part of the leg ; a second for the foot and the leg ; and a tliird for the central part of the leg, and place of the frac- ture, which is put on last. One great advantage of this method is, that the central piece of the roller may be removed as often as the surgeon pleases, and the fracture examined, or if a compound one the wound cleaned and dressed, without the slight- est disturbance of the fracture itself, or any motion of the limb. [It is an advantage to have the foot-piece fixed in such a manner as to admit of lateral move- ments, so that the toes may be directed outwards or inwards, by which means any tetidency to dis- placement of the foot in either of these directions may be effectually counteracted. Side splints, with foot-pieces, are often employed for the treat?ncnt of fractures of the leg, ami in ordinary cases they answer sufHciently well; but they do not afford the same steadiness and security against displacement, especially in the autero-pos- terior direction, as the ajjparatus last described, nor are they so comfortable to the patient. Another excellent mode of treating fractures of the leg is by the swing apparatus introduced by Mr. Luke, and in common use at the London Hospital. The fracture is first properly adjusted and placed in a kind of fracture box, well fur- nished with cushions ; and the whole is then placed in the interior of an arched cradle, from the upper bar of which it is suspended by straps. A modification of Mr. Luke's apparatus, with some additions, has been devised by Mr. James Salter, of King's College, and a drawing of it is given by Mr. Fergusson. (See Pract. Surg. ed. 3. p. 404.) By this method of swinging the limb the fracture is less likely to be disturbed by slight movements of the patient than when the appa- ratus rests immovably upon his bed. After the lapse of a fortnight or three weeks, if the case progresses favourably, the starched bandage, strengthened with pasteboard, may be substituted for these more cumbrous appliances, and the patient may be allowed to walk about on crutches, with his foot supported by a strap which is buckled over his shoulders. Many continental surgeons and some in this country recommend the starched bandage from the first, and allow the patient to move about a day or two after the accident. The more common practice in England is, however, to use it more as an auxiliary to the other methods, and after the lapse of time above mentioned. (See ante, p. 688.) In some cases it becomes necessary to employ a certain amount of permanent extension to prevent the tendency to retraction and overlapping of the fragments, and for this purpose Desault's long splint or some modification of it may be emploj^ed. Mr. Fergusson has contrived a very convenient and simple splint suitable for cases of this kind, and also for fractures of the thigh. It consists of a light iron bar to represent the long splint, with a movable foot-piece attached by which the toes can be pointed in either direction, while the whole is supported upon the bed by a sort of cross bar attached to its lower end. By having the appa- ratus thus supported and steadied, the trouble- some tendency so often noticed with the long .splint of the foot to turn out, or of the splint to turn forwards, is prevented. For a drawing and description of this splint, see Fergusson, Pract. Surg. cd. 3. p. 401. In some cases of oblique fracture, the upper fragment has a strong tendency to project forwards under the influence, as is usually believed, of the extensors of the knee-joint, and obstinately resists all efforts to keep it in its place either by position or pressure. For cases of this kind, M. Mal- gaigne has devised an ingenious plan of treatment, by which direct pressure is made upon the dis- placed portion of bone itself. The limb is placed on a double inclined plane, well padded, with the foot siipported against a foot-piece. His appara- tus consists of an arched plate of iron, intended to surround the anterior three-fourths of the Ic" at about a finger's-breadth distance fronr it ; at each end of this plate is an aperture through which a strap and buckle may be passed, by means of wliich the plate can be fixed firndy to the in- clined plane a little distance above the seat of tho fracture. There is an aperture in the centre of tho arched iron plate, grooved for a screw; the screw which passes through this opening ends in a sharp point, which is intended to bo inserted throni'h tho skin into tho projecting portion of bone.