753 FRACTURE. juence of the gradual contraction wliicli the lign- uientum patelliB undergoes. In one case he found this ligament shortened more than an inch, and it was not more than h;ilf the length of the ligament on the uninjured side. The retraction of the ligament had in tliis instance produced a greater effect even than the contraction of the muscles. But, besides being separated from each other, the fractured portions of bone undergo a displacement of another kind; tliey are tilted forwards, so that the anterior edges of the fractured surfaces are more widely separated than the posterior. This obliquity does not affect both pieces to the same extent, but is much more marked in the lower than in the upper. M. Malgaigne believes this is principally due to the slow contraction of the ligamentum patellae, the anterior fibres of which, being longer than the others, undergo a greater amount of shortening, and draw downwards the anterior surface of the lower fragment to which they adhere. The movement is increased by any apparatus which aims at the approximation of the fragments by means of circular constriction above and below the patella. (See Malgaigne, Traile des Fract. t. i. p. 755.)] As Boyer has particularly noticed, the lace- ration, or not, of the tendinous expansion, upon the front of the patella, makes a material diffei'ence in these cases, because it is a part of great importance in the cure. According to this author, a portion of it, in simple fractures of the patella, generally escapes laceration, and the separation of the frag- ments is then not very considerable ; but the violent action of the extensor muscles, a fall sub- sequent to the fracture, or the bending of the knee too much, may separate the pieces of bone far from each other, and rupture the tendinous expansion. {Mai. Cliir. t. iii. p. 328.) According to Sir A. Cooper, " when the ligament is but little torn, the separation will be but half an inch; but under great extent of injury, the bone may be drawn five inches upwards, the capsular ligament, and ten- dinous aponeurosis covering it, being then greatly lacerated." {Surr/ical Essays, part ii. p. 84.) The upper portion of bone may be moved trans- versely, and pain is thus excited, but no crepitus can be felt, as the two pieces of bone are not sufK- ciently near each other. When the swelling of the knee, consequent on fractures of the patella, is great, the symptoms of the injury may be more or less obscure. However, in consequence of the inability of the extensor muscles to move the leg, except in a few cases where the fracture is very low, the patient cainiot stand without difficulty, and is unable to walk. The broken patella commonly unites by means of a ligamentous substance, instead of bone. However, that an osseous union may follow a transverse fracture of the patella, and still more frequently a perpendicular one, is a fact of which there is not now the slightest doubt. Thus, Lal- lenicnt has published an unequivocal specimen of a transverse fracture united by bone, with the history of the case, and the appearances after the death of the patient from some other affection. {[{oyer, Mai. Cliir. t. iii. p. 355, &c.) In the collection of Dr. William Hunter, there is one well- marked instance of the bony union of a transverse fracture of the patella, and other examples have been seen in the dead subject by Mr. Wilson. (0« lite Slrucliirc, Physiolnyy, c^-c, of the S/celelon, p. 240.) In Sir Charles Bell's museum were like- wise similar specimens, one or two of which are now in the museum of University College. {Oji Injuries of the Spine and Thigh-hone, pp. 57, 58.) The reason why transverse fractures of the patella do not commonly unite by callus, is not owing to the want of power in this bone to produce an osseous connecting substance; for, as Larrey has several times noticed, if the fragments are kept in perfect contact by means of a suitable apparatus, their bony reunion becomes so complete, that ■scarcely any vestige of the injury can afterwards be traced. {Journ. Complem. t.y'm. p. 114.) And what must add strength to the purport of the fore- going remarks, is the consideration, that perpen- dicular or longitudinal fractures of the patella, which are not liable to any displacement from the action of the extensor muscles of the leg, readily admit of bony union. {Wilson, On the Structure and Phy- siology, ^c. of the Skeleton, p. 239.) This is a statement which, I think, could not be rendered doubtful by any experiments made on animals, without the advantages of quietude and proper treatment. Yet there are other facts related, which prove that, both in longitudinal and trans- verse fractures, a ligamentous union is generally produced, when the fragments are sepai'ated; but, if these are not drawn asunder, an osseous union takes place. Thus, in one case, reported by Sir A. Cooper, one third of the patella was separated from the rest of this bone, and had united by liga- ment, a free "motion being left between the frag- ments. {Surgical Essays, part ii. p. 9'4.) The same gentleman divided the patella longitudinally in a dog, without extending the division into the tendon above, or the ligament below, so that the fragments could not be separated. In three weeks, a close bony union was the result, (p. 95.) A case is also related, in which a gentleman frac- tured the patella transversely, and the lower por- tion likewise perpendicularly. The transverse fracture united as usual, by ligament; the perpen- dicular one, by bone, (p, 96.) Pott and some others thought that an interspace between the two pieces of the patella, with a cer- tain length of the connecting substance, might he advantageous in the motion of the joint ; but De- sault, Boyer, Sir A. Cooper, Sir J. Earle, and others, have alwaj's found that the greater the distance between the two pieces of the bone, the greater is the difficulty afterwards in walking up a rising or over an unequal ground. [Much separation of the fragments must also, as Sir A. Cooper has remarked, produce weakness in the limb in consequence of the shortening of the extensor nniscles, for the shortening will necessarily be attended with a proportionate diminution of their power. This weakness of action will also in pro- cess of time cause atrophy and degeneration in the muscular structure. (See Malgaimie, vol i p 4,54.) According to the researches of Mr. W. Adams it appears that it is only when the friignients are separated by a short interval that their fractured surfaces become lirnily united by a new fibrous or ligamentous material; when the separation exceeds an inch or an inch and a half, the bond of union consists merely of a tliickoning of the aponeurotic structures which pass over tlie front of the patella, and not of any now plastic material that has been effused between the fragments.