ANEURISM. lor the application of a ligature on tlie tracheal side of it, and where there was great reason to suspect that the arteria innominata was itself en- larged, Baron Diipuytren took up tlie axillary artery on the 12th of June, 1829, in the Hotel Dieu. The patient was placed in the recumbent posture, with the right arm raised from the side. An incision was begun neai- the inner end of the clavicle, two finger-breadths below it, and extended outwards nearly parallel to that bone for about three inches. The fibres of the great pectoral muscle, and then the upper third of the lesser pectoral, were divided. The axillary artery having been next separated from the vein and brachial plexus of nerves, a ligature was passed under it, with an eye-probe, and tightened, the doing of which occasioned no pain. In the course of the operation, which lasted thirty-five minutes, several arterial branches were cut and secured. Imme- diately after the axillary artery had been tied, the pulsations of the tumor became stronger and irregu- lar, but soon returned to their former strength ; simple dressings were applied to the wound, and a bladder of ice to the swelling. An anodyne draught was also exhibited ten hours after the operation; the pulse was strong and under ninety in the minute. Some blood was now taken from a vein in the arm. On the 13th of June, the patient was feeble, and complained of restlessness and want of sleep. The pulsations in the tumor had not sensibly lessened, but the tension seemed dimi- nished ; and the limb retained its natural tempera- ture. On the 16th, the pulse was only eighty, and the tumor and throbbing of it had manifestly diminished. Venesection was afterwards practised several times, and about six ounces of blood came away from the wound. The patient died on the 20th, and was supposed to have been too much lowered by the rigorous antiphlogistic treatment. The origin of several large arterial branches from the subclavian near the tumor, is regarded as a great cause of the little success which this method of operating promises, as applied to subclavian aneurisms; yet it deserves notice, that in the ' ise before us, the vertebral, internal mammary, :nid inferior thyroid branches were all found 'il)literated. This, according to Dupuytren, must ti eqnently happen, when the aneurism has attained a certain size ; and, therefore, he infers, that their presence should not deter a surgeon from applying a ligature between the tumor and the capillaries. No doubt, the diseased state of the right lung, and the morbid changes in the aorta, as observed after <1' nth, must have had a very unfavourable influence. (('im. Chir. t. iv. p. 594.) Dupuytren publicly lared, that the preceding case would not deter I from repeating a similar operation in the same : ud of case. (P. 611.) 207 Ligature op the Artbria Innominata. In certain cases of subclavian aneurism, it has been proposed to tie the arteria innominata. In the dead subject, Mr. Allan Burns applied two ligatures to it; and after cutting through the vessel in the interspace, he injected the aorta, when the injection was found to pervade the anastomosing vessels of the right arm, and all those of the head. But notwithstanding this fact, and others noticed Dy Mr. Hodgson, tending to show the probability -;hat a ligature upon the arteria innominata would not prevent the arm and head from receiving an adequate supply of blood, other objections were made to the practice. The principal of these were founded upon the difliculty of the operation in the living body ; the inflammation likely to be excited by it in neighbouring important organs ; the dan- ger of hemorrhage from the adhesion of the vessel being likely to be broken by the force of the cir- culation ; and the equal practicableness, in most cases, of tying the subclavian artery on the tracheal side of the scalenus. Dr. Mott, of New York, impressed with the value of Mr. Allan Burns' remarks upon this sub- ject, has, ever since he became acquainted with them, niaintained in his lectures the propriety of attempting to tie the arteria innominata, under particular circumstances of subclavian aneurism. At length Dr. Mott put this new operation to the test of experience in the New York Hospital, on the 11th of June, 1818. The case was a sub- clavian aneurism on the right side ; and the patient, a sailor, aged fifty-seven, to whom seventy drops of tinct. opii were first given. Dr. Mott began the first incision directly over the swelling above the clavicle, extending it along this bone, and ended it at the trachea, just above the upper portion qf the sternum. Here he commenced the second inci- sion of about the same length as the first, and reaching along the inner margin of the sterno- cleido-mastoideus. Dr. Mott next detached the skin from the subjacent platysma myoides, cut through the latter, and cautiously divided the sternal portion of the mastoid muscle, in the direc- tion of the first incision. The anterior jugular vein now presented itself close to the swelling, and adherent to it; a circumstance that rendered the subsequent part of the operation very difficult. After detaching a portion of the latter vein from Its connection, Dr. Mott cut through the sterno- hyoideus and sterno-thyroideus, and turned them back over the trachea. The carotid was now ex- posed a few lines above the sternum; and after he had separated the par vagum and internal jugular vein from it, they were drawn towards the outer side of the neck. Dr. Mott then laid bare the subclavian artery, which part of the operation he chiefly accomplished with the handle of the scalpel as there was nothing to be separated but cellular membrane. The subclavian artery was found to be very much enlarged and diseased ; and, as Dr. Mott recollected that this state of the vessel had seemingly hindered its successful closure, in the example operated upon by Dr. Colles, of Dublin he decided to take up the arteria innominata itself In detaching the cellular membrane from the lower surface of the subclavian artery, a small branch situated about half an inch from the innominata! was injured and the wound was six or eight times filled with blood from it. The hemorrhage was soon suppressed, however, by means of a little pressure. Had not the bleeding been so easily stopped. Dr. Mott wmild have concluded, from the situation of the vessel, that it was the internal mammary ; but, if it were not this branch, he con- ceives It must have been an artery not rcRularlv originating in this situation; perhaps the superior intercostal. Dr. Mott continued the operation with a small round-ended sharp scalpel, until ho came to the division of the arteria innominata, which groat vessel he traced below the sternum ; and after freeing it from all the cellular membrane with