ANEURISM, the head, and of such a throbbing in the brain as prevented her from sleeping. 211 An incision, two inches long, was made at the inner edge of the sterno-cleido-raastoideus muscle, from the lower part of the tumor to the clavicle. This wound exposed the omo-liyoideus and sterno- hj-oideus muscles, which being drawn aside towards the trachea, the jugular vein presented itself to view. The motion of this vein produced the only difficulty in the operation, as, under the dif- ferent states of breathing, the vessel sometimes became tense and distended under the knife, and then suddenly collapsed. Sir Astley Cooper in- troduced his finger into the wound, to keep the vein out of the way of the knife ; and, having ex- posed the carotid artery by another cut, he passed two ligatures under this vessel by means of a curved aneuiism-needle. The ligatures were then tied about half an inch asunder ; but the inter- vening portion of the artery was left undivided. The pulsation of the swelling ceased immediately the vessel was tied ; and on the day after the operation the throbbing in tiie brain had sub- sided, while no diminution of nervous energy in any part of the bodj- could be observed. The patient was occasionally afflicted with bad fits of coughing, but upon the whole went on at first pretty well. On the eighth day, however, a paralysis of the left leg and arm was noticed, attended with a great deal of constitutional irri- tation. November 8th, the patient could move her arm rather better ; but became unable to swal- low solids. November 12th, the palsy of her arm had now almost disappeared. The ligatures came away. November 14th, she was in every respect better; she swallowed with less difficulty; and the tumor was smaller, and quite free from pain. On the 17th, she became very ill; the tumor increased in size, and was sore when pressed. The w-ound was as Lirge as immediately after the operation, and discharged a sanious serum. Great difficulty of swallowing, and a most distressing cough, were also experienced. The pulse was ninety-six, and the left arm again veiy weak. On tho_2Ist, the patient died, the difficulty of swallowing having previously become still greater, attended with a further increase of tlie tumor, the skin over which had acquired a brownish red colour. On opening the swelling after death, the aneurismal sac was found inflamed, and the clot of blood in it was surrounded with a considerable quantity of pus. The inflammation extended on the outside of the sac, along the par v.igum, nearly to the bnsis of the skull. The glottis was .-ilmost closed, the bning of the trachea was inflamed and covered with coagulating lymph. Tiio pha- rynx was so compressed by the tumor, which had been suddenly enlarged by the inflammation, that a bougie of the size of a gooscquill could hardly be introduced into the oesophagus. Sir Astley Cooper conchulos with expressing his ojiinion that t/iese causes of failure may, in futarc, he avoided hy operulimj before the tumor is of such size as to make pressure on important parts; or, if the stvellinff should he large, hy opening it, and hHim, out its contenla, as soon as in/!ammalio>i comes oil (See Med. Chin Trans, vol. i.) In one case, under the care of Mr. Coate.i, of •Salisbury, the making of an opening, about a month after the operation, gave relief by dis- charging seven ounces of fetid blood and pus; but three weeks afterwards hemorrhage came on from the sac, and the patient was carried off by repeated loss of blood. On dissection, an artery, capable of admitting a probe, was found to pass into the cavity of the sac. (Seeil/erf. Chii: Trans. vol. xi. p. 2.) In June, 1808, Sir Astley Cooper operated, in Guy's Hospital, on a man, aged fiftj', who had a carotid aneurism, attended with pain on one side of the head, throbbing in the brain, hoarseness, cough, slight difficulty of breathing, nausea, gid- diness, &c. The patient got quite well, and re- sumed his occupation as a porter. There was af- terwards no perceptible pulsation in the facial and temporal arteries of the aneurismal side of the face. On the opposite side, the temporal artery became unusually large. The tumor was at last quite absorbed, though a pulsation existed in it till the beginning of September. The man's intellects remained perfect; his nervous system was unaf- fected ; and the severe pain, which, before the operation, used to affect the aneurismal side of the head, never returned. The swelling, at the time of the operation, was about as large as a pul- let's egg, and situated on the left side about the acute angle made by the bifurcation of the com- mon carotid, just under the angle of the jaw. Sir Astley Cooper began the incision opposite the middle of the thyroid cartilage, at the base of the tumor, and extended the wound to within an inch of the clavicle, on the inner side of the sterno- cleido-mastoideus muscle. On raising the margin of this muscle, the omo-hyoideus could be dis- tinctly seen crossing the sheath of the vessels, and the nervus descendens noni was also brought into view. The sterno-cleido-mastoideus was now se- parated from the omo-hyoideus, when the jugular vein was seen. This vessel became so distended at every expiration as to cover the artery. When the vein was drawn to one side, the par vagum was manifest, lying between that vessel and the carotid artery. The nerve was easily avoided. A double ligature was then conveyed under the artery with a blunt iron probe. The lower ligature was immediately tied, and the upper one was also drawn tight, as soon as about an inch of the artery had been separated from the surrounding parts above the first ligature, so as to allow the second to be tied at this height. A needle and thread were passed through the vessel below one ligature and above the other. The artery was then divided! In a little more than nine weeks, the wound was quite healed, and the patient entirely recovered (See iMcd. CItir. Trans, vol. i.) Another successful instance, in which the ca rotid was tied for the cure of an aneurism, is re- lated in a work, to which I always liavo the greatest pleasure in referring. (See Ifodgsou's 1 realise on the Diseases of Arteries, p. 329.) Mr. Iravcrs tied the carotid artery in a woman, w 10 had an aneurism by anastomosis in the left orljit. Ihe disease iiad pushed the eye out of its socket. .Two small ligatures were applied, which came away on the twenty-first and twenty-second days._ No homorrhago, nor impairment of the function of the brain took place, and tlie disease in the orbit was effectually cured, (See ^[ed. Unr. Irans. vol. ii.) Another liiglily interesting (Example, in which an aneurism by anastomosis in the orbit was cHectually cured by tying the carotid I' 2