firm, the upper portion is found to consist only of fibrin, colourless corpuscles, and a portion of scrum, forming a butty or fibrinous crust ; and when the wliite corpuscles have been increased by any cause, they may constitute as much as one half of the bulk of tliis crust. Hence this appearance presents itself generally in blood drawn during inflammatory fever, and entonic inflammation, in healthy sub- jects. (See IIyperinosis.) On the other hand, the existence of a small quantity of fibrin, and the deterioration of its quality, by wliich the viscidity of the blood is diminished, favours the subsidence of the red corpuscles, and although coagulation may begin early, it is at first so weak, and the con- traction so feeble, that a subsidence of the cor- puscles takes place just as when the coagulation has been retarded, and a bu% coat may be formed. This occurs in many diseases of debility and low states of the sj'stem. (See Span^emia.) So, also, an increase in the specific gravity of the red corpuscles, or a diminution in the density of the liquor sanguinis, or both, or any circumstance which promotes the aggregation of the corpuscles, and their disposition to form nummular masses, (since the resistance to a solid sinking in a fluid diminishes in proportion as the surface of the solid diminishes), lead to the formation of a buffy coat. Thus a buft'y coat occurs in diseases of the most opposite nature, and owing to the dilution of the liquor sanguinis and the increased proportion of white corpuscles, it is also often formed after a second or third venesection, or repeated losses of blood. The surface of the buffy coat may be concave or plane, or even convex when it depends on an ex- cess of fibrin. Since the layer of bufl^ encloses no red corpuscles, and generally but few foreign ele- ments, the fibrin contracts more closely than the fibrin of the clot beneath it, producing a tendency to contract within a smaller diameter. This ten- dency being resisted by the connection of the buffy with the red clot, the margins of the latter become expanded, and are drawn upwards, while the con- tractile power of the fibrin, taking greater effect in proportion to the distance from the resistance a concavity is produced in the clot, and tiie congu- liim becomes cupped, an appearance frequently observed in entonic inflammatory diseases. When the fii)rin is deficient or defective, the surface of the crust remains plane, or becomes convex, the cnist being, at the same time, soft, and often of a greyish white colour. These effects often depend, in part, on an excess of colourless particles, or on vesciclcs of fat; a condition of the buffy coat which presents itself in inflammatory diseases in debili- tated habits. The tendency of the corpuscles to sink, and to thc formation of a buffy coat, has been observed to be increased in blood deficient in snlts with a rela- tive increase of albumen ; in blood that is dark from being rich in iron ; and in lilood with waterv liquor sanguinis. On the other hand, when the corpuscles are pale and rich in fat, their tendency 13 to sink slowly, and a buffy coat is not so readily formed. .'>. Till! alisnrplion or relcniion of suhslanccs dc- rchjKd duyiiirj the procaines of litematnsis.— Organic compounds formed in the blood, or introduced from the tLssups, produce pathological conditions of tliis fluid under n great variety of circiimstancrs. 'J'liey may be products of indigestion or nialassiniiiation, BLOOD, PATHOLOGY OF. 335 or the results of an arrest of the ascensive or de- censive metamorphoses of various organic substances, whether those received by tlie blood from the dis- integrated tissues, or those introduced with the in- gesta. They are frequently definite compounds formed during the transpositions of the elements of complicated organic principles into more simple substances, previous to elimination ; and the more perfect the processes of ereniacausis and secretion— the action of the lungs, liver, skin, kidneys, and other depurating organs, the less likely are such substances to present themselves in the blood. Morbid conditions under this head are extremely various, and intimately associated with some of the most fatal diseases that occur in surgical practice, The following arrangement will indicate the scope of this part of the subject, and assist the student in his reference to the most important diseases. a. Blood diseased from the absorption of crude or deleterious substances formed in the alimentary canal during primary digestion. (See Toxico- II.EMIA.) h. From an arrest of the molecular trans- positions of the substances conveyed into it. Sugar, lactic acid, uric acid, urea, hippuric acid, creatine, creatinine, volatile fatty acids, and many odorous substances, regarded by chemists as products of the retrograde metamorphoses of the organic principles of the blood, have in many instances been detected in morbid blood. (See Blood, Acidity op ; Gluch^emia; Oxai,.!emia.) c. From the reten- tion of substances prepared for elimination. If the secreting cells of the kidneys, liver, or skin, fail to secrete bile, urea, and other substances prepared for excretion, or if the lungs and skin fail to ex- crete carbonic acid gas, or the cells of the mammie milk, these materials, or tlieir analogues, accumu- late, and the blood becomes diseased. (See Asphyxia, Lithiasis, Urjjmia, Cholodmia.) (/. From the reabsorption of the secretions or their products. A failure of secretion and a failure of excretion are two different things. If the secreting cells of the liver fail, the blood is not depurated ol' the materials which in the act of secretion con- stitute bile ; but if the excretory ducts become ob- structed, this substance may be reabsorbed, either as bile or as some new compound. (See Cho- L/EMIA.) c. From materials .supplied from the tisssues, and resulting from nialassiniiiation in se- condary digestion. /. From the absorption of pathological products. The blood is very often contaminated by the absorption of its own exuda- tions. When pus is not evacuated externally, the pus corpuscles separate into granules, and are ulti- mately dissolved, and the fluid is reabsorbed, and mixed with the blood. These products undergo u series of transformations, and are ultimately o.\-creted by the I ungs, kidneys, or skin. In their progress thrniigh these changes they often excite the b?ood, and incre.nsc its active metamorphoses, as sliown bv an increase in the quantity of fibrin or of urate of ammonia, and other products. So .-ilso the fluids of tubercle, cancer, or any morbid growth or exuda- tion, may mingle with the fluids of the parenchyma and bo conveyed back into the blond as molecules and granules, with inherent tendencies to evolution. {V<m dcr Koll;.) Not only do these materials produce the most marked symptoms, as the hectic fever resulting from the absorption of tuberculous ichor, but they may be developed into substances or structures similar to those from which they are originally derived, or secondary growths, as