38 AMAUROSIS. changed in a remarkable manner, the whole cavity of the eyeball becoming filled with a substance re- sembling medullary matter, and the optic nerve changed in its form, colour, and structure. (See Wardrop^s Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, vol. ii. p. 156, 8vo. Loud. 1818.) Injuries of the supra orbital brandies of the fifth nerve have been frequently followed by loss of sight, and the experiments of Vicq d'Azyr, tend to prove the reality of amaurosis from the cause in question. Vicq d'Azyr exposed and lacerated the frontal and superciliary branches of the fifth pair in various animals, and found that the injury was followed by amaurosis. {Journ. Compl. des Sciences Med. t. xliv. p. 201. Paris, 1832.) According to Mr. Wardrop, it is only when this nerve is wounded or injured, and not divided, that amaurosis takes place ; for the blindness may some- times be cured by making a complete division of the trunk nearest its origin. {Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, vol. ii. p. ISO.) Dr. Hennen met with one or two cases of amau- rosis from wounds of the supra-orbitary nerve : the perfect division of the nerve produced at first no alleviation of the complaint, but after some time the eye partially recovered. (Principles of Mili lary Surgery, p. 366.) Irritation of other portions of the fiftli nerve li-ora carious teeth or from tumors connected with, or pressing upon some of its branches, has been known to produce amaurosis, and in such cases removal of tlie irritating cause has generally been followed by restoration of the sight. Richter ac- quaints us with the case of a lady, who had been blind for years, but experienced a short recovery of her sight on having a tooth extracted. (An- fanqsqr. &c. b. iii. kap. 14.) A similar fact is recorded by Mr. Travers, who says, that he has seen an incipient functional amau- rosis distinctly arrested by the extraction of a diseased tooth, when the delay of a similar opera- tion had occasioned gutta serena on the opposite Bide two years before. (Synopsis, p. 299.) Richter records the following example. A small shot pierced the upper eyelid, and lodged at the upper part of the right orbit, between the eyelid and eyeball, so that it could be felt exter- nally. The patient shortly afterwards became blind in the left eye ; but recovered his sight after the excision of the shot. {Anfangsgr. der Wun- darzn. band iii. p. 439.) i. In 182G, M. Magendie related to the f rencti Academy of Sciences various facts exemplifying the remarkable influence of the fifth nerves over all the senses: and, with respect to the sense of sight, he finds that the action of the eyeball and optic nerve cease immediately they are completely deprived of the influence of those nerves. Thus, a state of the eye is produced that has the greatest analogy to amaurosis. Indeed, when the filth nerves are divided in an animal, it is instantly bereft of sight on the side on which the nerve has been cut, notwithstanding the eye retains at the moment all the physical conditions necessary for vision. It is not to be supposed, however, that the fii'lh nerves perform the function usually re- ferred to the optic ones. To perceive the light, and /n .re as Magendie remarks, are, experimentally sneakin-, two dilltrent things. An .animal, whose M h nerves have been divided, does not see, neither it consQious of the daylight, or of the strongest artificial light; yet it decidedly'percclves the im- pression of the rays of the sun, when they fall directly on the eye. Hence, a healthy, sound con- dition of the optic nerve on the one part, and of the fifth nerve on the other, is essential to perfect vision ; and M. Magendie therefore deems it highly probable, that there are two kinds of amaurosis ; one depending on a particular afiection of the optic nerve, and retina ; the other on disease of the fifth nerve, and the defect of its influence on the organ of vision. These reflections led him to make trial of a combination of acupuncture and galvanism for the cure of certain cases of amaurosis. _ Thus, in one case, having introduced one needle into tbe frontal nerve, and another into the upper maxillary one, he brought the needles into repeated contact with the two poles of a voltaic pile. In a fortnight, the patient had received considerable benefit from the plan. Other facts are also recorded in favour of this treatment. (See Journ. Exper. de Physiol. t. vi. p. 156 et seq.) The abuse of narcotic poisonous substances may induce amaurosis; as opium, hyoscyamus, bella- donna, &c. Lead will do the same thing. Di- latation and a fixed state of the pupil follow the mere application of some narcotics to the skin ; a circumstance of which we take advantage in the treatment of several diseases of the eye ; but it does not usually happen that belladonna and hyoscyamus, the substances employed in this way, produce any other efi"ect than a degree of obscurity and dazzling, such as a great influx of light through a much dilated pupil might occa- sion. Taken internally, however, these and some other poisons of the same class, as stramonium, dulcamara, white hellebore, tobacco, opium, &c. cause more or less complete insensibility of the retina, along with mydriasis, or myosis. The blindness is often a very obstinate symptom, con- tinuing a long while after disturbance of the intel- lectual functions has ceased. (See Mackenzie on X)is. o/iAe p. 1064, ed. 4.) An amaurosis is described as produced by certain vegetable bitters, and by particular articles of food. But the reality of such cases is doubted by Mr. Lawrence. (Op. cit. p. 491.) Cat-eye amaurosis is a case particularly de- scribed by Beer; it rarely advances to complete blindness, and occiu-s chiefly in very old per- sons. Sometimes, however, it takes place m voung subjects, and even in children. Beer al- le'res that it is always confined either to thin, dwindled, old gray-headed subjects, in whom the exchange of organic matter is carried on but tardily, or else to young subjects, who are unhealthy, and disposed to consumption, hectical adults, emaciated children, and as a consequence of severe injuries of the eye While this amaurosis is not perfectly formed, the iris retains its mobility, and the pupil is neither pieternaturally dilated '''"''^^f^J: but when once the patient is quite ^'''-f f the motions of the iris are slow, P^P'l larger than in a healthy eye in an equal degree of uTt. At the bottom of the eye far behind the pupil a concave pale gray, bnght yf^-'f^^ ? riegated reddish opacity, is developed By this the eyesight is not merely weakened, but render d quite^onfnsed, since all objects, '-^ ^-al'y smallish ones, appear to be confounded together particularly when the patient tries to inspect closely any determinate body. The further the disease