1 suits, he was induced to advocate amputation at that bone was removed. A portion of the con- tlie knee as preferable even to amputation through t'le upper part of the leg. Subsequent experience, wever, has shown that sncli an average is by far I M favourable, and M. Velpeau himself admits that he may liave exaggerated the safety of the operation when he attempted to revive it in 1030. He does not now think it should ever be un- dertaken when it is possible to amputate lower down, though he still strongly recommends it as preferable to amputation in the lower third of the thigh. M. Malgaigne thinks it is an operation that has been too lightly condemned,and which, when the surgeon has the choice, merits a decided preference over amputation in the continuity of the thigh. {Med. Oper. p. 316, ed. 5.) The mode of operating originally adopted by Hoin, was with a posterior flap cut from the calf of the leg. He made a horizontal incision below the patella extending round the limb for three-fourths of its circumference. This incision divided the skin, ligaments, and other fibrous tissues. The leg being a little flexed, the crucial ligaments and ain- remaining portion of the lateral ligaments were divided with the point of the knife, after which, the leg being further flexed, and the head of the tibia drawn towards the operator, the blade of the knife was carried through the joint, and a flap was cut from the muscles of the calf long enough to cover the articular end of the femur. By this pro- ceeding the patella was preserved. (See Bourgtry, Med. Oper. t. ii. p. 269.) M. Velpeau disapproves of the above method, and recommends a circular incision through the skin, three or four finger-breadths below the pa- tella, without involving the muscles. The skin is to be dissected up and reflected, care being taken to preserve as much as possible of the cellular and adipose textures. He then divides the ligamentum patella: and lateral ligaments ; after which, bending the knee, he cuts the crucial ligaments, carries his knife through the joint, and finishes by dividing horizontally the vessels, nerves, and muscles at the posterior part on a level with the raised up integuments. {N'ouv. Elim. de Med. Oper. t. iii. p. 254.) In 1836-, M. Baudens operated successfully'at the knee-joint in two cases of gunshot wound of the leg, and since that period he has always strongly advocated the operation. He recommends an oval or elliptical instead of a circular incision, with a view to retain more integument anteriorly, and throw the cicatrix more towards the posterior part. The incision should descend anteriorly five finger-breadths below the inferior border of the patella, but only three finger-breadths below this level posteriorly or towards the popliteal space. The integument is to be dissected from the front and sides of the joint, as high as the lower border of the patella, and reflected back, but posteriorly the cellular adhesions which unite the skin to the muscles should be preserved uninjured. The liga- ments should next be divided in succession until the tibia is completely disarticulated. This will permit an assistant to pass his fingers into the wound and compress the popliteal artery, and the knife may be carried through the Tnusclen at the back of the joint, so as to divide them at the level of the incision already made in the skin. In M. Baudens'first case, the skin was dissected back as high as the upper border of the patella, and AMPUTATION. 105 dyles of the femur, in which the ball was found to be lodged, was also removed. In the second case, the patella was retained, and the articular cartilage on it and on the lower end of the femur was not interfered with. No exfoliation of this structure took place, and the wound was completely healed in ten days. (See Baudens, CUniques des Plaies d'Amies a Feu, p. 532, Paris, 1836.) In 1824, Dr. Nathan Smith, of Connecticut, amputated successfully at the knee-joint, with anterior and posterior flaps of equal size. This was the first instance in which the operation was performed in America. It was some years before the date of M. Velpeau's Memoirs, and was one of the fourteen cases to vvhich he referred. Dr. Smith's instructions for the operation are as fol- lows :— "Mark two points, one on the out, and the other on the inside of the limb ; the latter half an inch below the head of the tibia, and the other opposite to it. Then draw a semicircular line from one point to the other over the anterior part of the leg, and in such a direction that its lower part shall touch the lower part of the tubercle on the tibia into which the ligament of the patella is inserted, and then mark another circle on the posterior part of the leg exactly corresponding to the former. The above lines limit the two flaps, the former of which will be formed of the patella and its ligaments, and the latter of the bead of the gastrocnemius, the tendons of the flexor muscles, and the popliteal blood-vessels and nerves. The operator should first raise the anterior flap with the patella, which will expose the anterior part of the joint and render the division of the lateral lio-a- ments easy. Two or three strokes of the knife will then complete the section of the crucial liga- ments and of the lower flap." (See Amer. Med. Rev. vol. ii. p. 370 ; and S. Smith on Amp. at the Knee-joint, N. Y. Juiini. of Med. vol. ix. p. 313, 1852.) The American surgeons who have since performed the operation have usually made the anterior flap longer and the posterior flap shorter than Dr. Smith recommended, in order to throw the cicatrix well back towards the popliteal space and out of the way of pressure from the wooden leg. Dr. Markoe, of New York, in a paper recently published, strongly recommends amputation at the knee-joint in preference to the lower third of the thigh. Dr. Markoe has himself operated twice successfully, and has watched with care the pro- gress of all the cases (nine in number) which have occurred in the New York Hospital. He says he first became an advocate for it in 184] " on exa- nimmg, atthe New York Hospital, a stump left after this operation. 1 he integument covering the condyles was sound, and free from callosities, excoriations, or tenderness ; and with this sur- ace applied upon a cushion in an ordinary wooden leg he could walk without inconvenience ten miles a day, and had been able to do so since the stump was healed, some years before " He says the impression made upon his mind, when comparing ,t with the useless tender pointed cones of flesh left by the ordinary amputation through the thigh, was a desire to ascertain whether such an inestimable advantage might not in certain cases with safety and propriety be secured. Dr Markoe gives the statistics of eighteen cases oper- ated on by American surgeons, and to these ho