710 of little avail, aa the irregularity in the anterior part of the canal, made by the displacement of the body ot the vertebra, must be the same after, as it was before, the operation." This view coincides with that which I have long entertained. (See First Lmes of Surgery, ed. vi. p. 586.) " If (observes Sir Benjamin Brodie) there be simply a fracture on each side of the spinous process, with a depres- sion of the loose or intermediate portion of bone, there must be a corresponding diminution of the size of the vertebral canal ; but, as that canal is much larger than the spinal cord, which it contains, It does not follow that the spinal cord is really compressed, or that any material diminution of the sjTnptoms would follow the elevation or the de- pression. But let it be supposed that the spinal cord is really suffering from pressure, a much less degree of violence than that which is necessary to occasion a fracture of the spine may produce con- cussion, softening, and ultimately dissolution of the spinal cord, with a train of symptoms much worse than those which arise from simple pressure. Now, no operation can be of the smallest advantage in this respect; but, on the contrary, if it be nece°s- sary to apply the saw in the performance of it, the jar and disturbance of the parts, which it must occasion is even likely to aggravate the mischief. If these views be correct, it is evident that the cases, in which there are any reasonable grounds for the performance of the operation, must be of very rare occurrence." {Sir B. Brodie, m Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xx. p. 160.) In fact, no ope- ration of this kind has yet been the means of preserving life, or even of relieving the worst symptoms. Sir Charles Bell describes inflammation of the spinal marrow as " attended with an almost nni versal nervous irritation, which is presently fol- lowed by excitement of the brain : in the mean- time, matter is poured into the sheath of the spinal marrow, and eitiier by its pressure causing palsy, or by its irritation disturbing the functions of the part, so as to be attended with the same conse- quences. The excitement of the brain being followed by effusion, death ensues" (p. 159). Cases are also referred to where palsy of the lower extremities comes on several months after an in- jury of the spine, owing to thickening of the mem- brane of the medulla, or disease of the latter part itself. Plere Sir C. Bell recommends perseverance in local bleeding and deep issues (p. 160). When recovery takes place, the restoration of sensibility usually precedes that of the power of voluntary motion. The power of emptying the bladder is also sooner restored than that of using the nniscles of tlie lower limbs. {Sir B. Brodie, op. et vol. cit. p. 13G—141.) A fracture of the processus dentatus almost always proves instantly fatal, as happened in the example mentioned by Sir A. Cooper. (On Dis- locaiions, 4-c. p. 548.) In the article Dislocation, I have adverted to the remarkable instance of a fracture and displacement of the atlas, whore the patient lived forty-seven weeks after the accident, and to the last wec'k of his life was able to walk to the \vater-clo8et, Avhich was on the same floor with h,s bed. After death " tlie condvlos of tiic "([ciput still rested upon the articulating surfaces o' the atlas, but the alias was found to be not a sepaiatcand nulepcndent vertebra, but an appendix 0 "10 axis. So much of its anterior portion as FRACTURE. includes the surfaces by which it is articulated with the occiput and with the axis, had been violently separated from the posterior portion of its ring and had been carried in an oblique direction down- wards and forwards, until it arrived upon the same plane, but anterior to the axis, to the body and transverse processes of which it became at- tached by perfect bony union, while the posterior Iragraent had suffered no displacement. Under these circumstances, the bone presented two spinal foramina, and four transverse, but no odontoid pro- cess. This organ having been fractured and sepa- rated, no organ passed through the anterior spinal foramen." (B. Phillips, in Med. CMr. Tram vol. XX. p. 82.) In the practice of Mr. Cline, a case occurred in which a bo)^, with a fracture of the atlas, lived a year after the accident. The particulars of the following case, under my cai'e in University College Hospital, were registered by Mr. Morton, then house surgeon:—Thomas Robinson was admitted November 2, 1835, for injuries received by the fall of a very heavy piece of timber on the lower part of the neck, a short time before he was brought to the hospital. He vfas perfectly sensible ; the pupils were quite ac- tive under the influence of light, and no symptom prevailed indicating affection of the brain. His arms and superior extremities were completely paralysed. If raised up, and the support then re- moved, they immediately dropped. The man had lost all sensation in the inferior extremities and in the trunk, as high as the middle of the chest ; also in the arms, excepting from the point of the shoulder down to the elbow. He had priapism, with emissioseminis. Respiration was performed im- perfectly, and in a short h\jrried manner. Though pain was experienced in the back of the neck when the head was moved, no crepitus was distinguish- able. In respiration, no action of the intercostal and abdominal muscles could be perceived. The next day, as no urine had passed, a pint was drawn off with a catheter ; and gr. viij. of calomel, followed by aperient mixture, were given to promote evacu- ations from the bowels. The mixture was rejected by vomiting. In the afternoon the pulse had risen to 120 beats in a minute, and the difficulty of breathing had increased. The face was flushed, and skin hot. Twenty-four ounces of blood were taken away ; but without benefit, as the pulse afterwards rose to 166, and became irregular both as to rhythm and strength. Death took place twenty-four hours after the accident. In the post mortem examination, the right articular process was found detached from the body of the third vertebra. The left portion of the arch of the fourth was broken, hut not displaced. The arch of tiic fifth was much comminuted, and the spinal cord exposed and pressed upon. The body of this vertebra was also broken through, and the sharp edge of the fracture had caused copious extravasa- tion behind the pharynx, in front of the vertebral column. 'W^'illiam Parker, a;t, 13, was admitted under mo, October 15, 1836, in consequence of his cravat having been caught by some machinery, and his neck drawn against a projecting lever. In this position he had been suspended about a minute and a half, and directly he had been released he was brought to the hospital. His breathing was then slow, and somewhat laboured, the face slightly livid, the pupils acted, the hands were warm, and