CONJUNCTIVITIS. 473 infants. The early symptoms very closely re- semble catarrhal ophthalmia ; one eye is primarily atfectcd, and, if the disease is the result of go- norrhoea, it is often limited to the eye first attacked. It commences in the conjunctiva lining the pal- pebrae, and rapidly spreads to the ocular conjunc- tiva; the eyelids become of a bright red colour, much swollen and closed ; escaping from between the lids is some thick yellow pus, which flows out readily and abundantly when the lids are separated. The ocular conjunctiva is swollen, infiltrated with serum, or, in the more severe cases, with Ij-mph, so that the cornea seems buried and partly overlapped by its elevated margin, giving rise to the sjonptom known as chemosis. Blood as well as serum is extravasated beneath the membrane; this symptom is termed " ecchymosis." Tliis condition may be developed in as short a space as twenty-four hours, or not till some days. Generally about the third day the second eye becomes affected, and pursues the same course, though usually in rather a milder form. As the disease progresses, the cornea becomes involved; its surface appears hazy, then the layers are infiltrated with pus, become gradually disorganised, and give way; in other cases, the cornea rapidly ulcerates, the ulcer usually commencing round the margin of the cornea, and gradually penetrating its substance. The cornea then gives way, the aqueous humour escapes, the iris and lens fall forwards into the opening, and staphyloma is the result; the globe becomes flaccid, the swelling diminishes, the red- ness becomes of a deeper colour, and the disease rapidly loses its intense character, the integrity of the organ having been the price paid for the subsidence of this truly formidable disease. Dur- ing the development and acme of the purulent ophthalmia, the pain is of a very severe and dis- tressing character; there is intense burning and tension of the globe and eyelids, with constant irritation, as if a foreign body were in the eye, succeeded by deep-seated throbbing, as if the eye would burst. These symptoms arc usually attended with considerable constitutional irritation, a foul tongue, loss of appetite, a dry skin, &c., and often e.xhibit themselves in their most violent form in persons whose powers liave been impaired by pre- vious illness or intemperate habits. With regard to tlie cause of purulent ophthalmia, it is essen- tially a disease of hot climntes, where it is very common and very destructive to sight, and where it probably arises from some atmospheric poison and spreads by contagion. In the year 1800-1-2, our troops suffered severely from this disease in Egypt, from which circumstance it has been called by some " the Egyptian ophthalmia," In this country, the cause of the severer forms of the disease is the contact of gonorrhoaal matter; it may also arise from the accidental intrusion of matter from an abscess ; it may result from atmo- spheric influence in a constitution prone to its development ; also from severe injury to the eye. Symptoms resembling very closely those I have now described occasionally follow the operation of extraction. It must not be supposed that the diseasealw.ays produces the extreme results I have mentioned. It may be arrested at any stage, and the result, though usually more or less damaging to the eye, is regulated by the period at which the disease is checked. Thus it was found that the epidemic, which committed 8uch ravages in the army in Egypt, did not in the onset always involve any other structure but the conjunctival mem- brane. The result of this severe and protracted form of inflammation was in most cases found to be an alteration in the surface and enlargement of the villi of the conjunctiva, and a condition to which the term "granular conjunctiva" is applied. This becomes a serious and constant irritation to the cornea; by degrees its surface becomes dull and covered with red vessels, and tlius " a vascular opacity" of the cornea results, seriously interfering with vision, and giving rise to more injurious consequences than the purulent attack in its early and acute stage. It not unfrequently happens that one eye is staphylomatous, and the other presents a dense opacity and adhesions, more or less complete, of the iris and comea. Treatment:—We may consider the subject under the twofold aspect of local and constitutional means. As the disease maj' arise from purely local causes, the local treatment assumes considerable value and importance. The plan to adopt, when there is ex- tensive chemosis and swelling of the lids, and the cornea is threatened, is, in the first place, freely to divide the membrane by the method recom- mended by Mr, Tyrrell, which consists in a series of incisions with an ordinary cataract knife, radiating from the cornea towards the circum- ference of the globe in every direction, placing the back of the knife on the surface so as to divide the conjunctiva without injury to the cornea or sclerotica, and in addition to this, to endeavour to relieve the distended vessels by the application of leeches to the swollen lids, A piece of lint, dipped in cold water, is constantly to be kept ap- plied to the surface of the lids, and a strong solu- tioji of nitrate of silver, varying from five to ten grains to the ounce, is to be dropped between the lids every hour or every two hours, as the patient can bear it. It is very important that the dis- charge should be carefully removed previous to the insertion of the drops, so as to ensure their getting iuto contact with the surface of the mem- brane ; this can be best accomplished by means of a syringe and a little luke-warm water ; if the nitrate of silver causes great pain, some other as- tringent may be advantageously employed ; the sulphate of copper may be brushed over the sur- face, or a strong solution of alum may be substi- tuted. If there is an ulcer threatening to pene- trate, a finely-pointed piece of the nitrate of silver may be often advantageously applied to the ulcer- ating surface. It is advisable that, while the vessels or the part are relieved by local deple-- tion, the system be sustained in every possible way. Tonics and dill'usible stimuli must be freely administered. Decoction of bark with carbonate of ammonia, or a combination of steel with quinine in full doses may be given, taking care, at the same time, that the bowels ho freely acted upon. The diet should be liberal, and even stimulating a full allowance of good fresh meat and, at least, a pint of porter daily. ' [The constitutional treatment hero advised is directly opposed to that hitherto reconnncnded in this Dictionary, and may be denominated the modern method. The surgeon will do well to use his own judgment in each individual case, and probably liis patient will be more safely carried through liis disease by the avoidance of the ex- tremes of the old depleting and of the modern