AMPUTATION. m angle of 45°, and an incision begun over the head of tlie metacarpal bone, about a quarter of an inch behind tlie articulation, and extended oblique!}' down the side of the finger, as far as the digital commissure, care being taken to divide as com- pletely as possible the extensor tendon. The in- cision is then carried round to the palmar surface and continued backward, so as to terminate opposite the articulation, thus completing the first flap, which is to be reflected. The knife is now pushed into the exposed side of the articulation, the ligaments cut, and the operation finished by the formation of the opposite flap, which is cut from within outwards and ends like the first at the digital commissure. When this operation is done on the index finger, the outer flap should be the larger; when on the little finger, the inner flap should have the greater size. (Malffaigne, Manuel, c^-c. ed. 5, p. 279.) The following is Mr. Liston's description of this method: — The operator seats himself before the patient; grasps the finger so as to manage its move- ments with the left hand; and holding the knife perpendicularly, with its point upwards, lays it over the knuckle, and carries it obliquely upwards, so as to open that side of the articulation. He then pushes the finger towards the opposite side, and with the point of the knife completes the loosening of the articulation, which should never be done with the bhide, as it would cross-cut and mangle the skin. After the separation of the base of the phalanx with the point, the blade is passed behind; and, being carried downwards and out- wards, it forms a flap similar to the first. They 1 are retained in contact by bringing the neighboiir- : mg fingers towards one another. In general, this ■ will also stop the bleeding, but sometimes one or 1 both digital arteries will require ligature. (See . Liston^s Elements, part iii. p. 375.) [It will be found preferable to make both these flaps by incision from without inwards, and to complete both before opening the joint; in this way it is easier to make them correspond accurately than by the former methods.] 2nd Method, by Oval Incision. — The incision commences in the same way as in the first opera- tion, and like it passes obliquely downwards as far . as the digital commissure; but now, instead of being continued backward into the palm, it is i carried transversely across the under surface of the : finger, following ex.-ictly the cutaneous fissure ' which separates the finger from the hand. It is • now made to pass obliquely upwards again on the opposite side of the finger, to join the original incision a little in front of the point where it com- menced. The skin is held aside by an assistant, while the surgeon opens the joint on its dorsal surface, and then divides the lateral and afterwards the anterior ligaments to complete the disarticula- tion. This operation is not effected quite so rapidly as the former, but the wound made is a little less extensive, and does not encroach at all upon the palmar surface of the hand. Diipuytren found that, when the ring or middle finger had been removed, without taking away the head of the corresponding metacarpal bone, the ad- ; joining fingers remained widely separated at their 1 base, but obliquely approximated to one another at I their extremities, so as to produce a considerable de- I formity, and an imperfection in their functions; he 1 used, therefore, not to be content with amfiutating 1 the phalanges, but made it a rule to apply n re- tractor, and saw oft' the head of the metacarpal bone. (See Lrqms Orales, <5'C. t. iv. p. 309.) Sir Astley Cooper has advocated the same practice, which is most readily accomplished with a pair of cutting pliers. Mr. Fergusson also strongly recommends the removal of about an inch of the metacarpal bone, as greatly lessening the deformity and not tending materially to diminish the strength of the hand. He advocates the extension of the same principle to the fore and little fingers. (See Practical Surgery, p. 216.) The portion of the metacarpal bone may either be removed together with the phalanges, or separately after these have been taken away, at the choice of the operator. The extension of disease to one of the me- tacarpo-phalangeal articulations may also be an- other reason for taking away more or less of the metacarpal bone along with the finger. If merely the distal end of the bone is affected, either of the above mentioned plans of operation will suffice, only the incisions should commence a little further back than is there laid down. And even when a considerable portiou of the metacarpal bone is to be taken away, an extension of the incision backwards on the dorsal surface will be found sufficient with- out interfering further with the palm of the hand. " With this view the knife is entered over the dorsal centre of the bone, above the diseased part, and carried straight downwards till near the ar- ticulation, when it is made to diverge for the formation of lateral flaps. The integuments in the track of the wound are then dissected backwards, so as to expose the bone completely, and the bis- toury is passed round it throughout its whole extent, the edge being kept close to it. Then the bone is clipped at the proper point by the cutting pliers; or the section of the bone may be performed before the separation of the soft parts from its under surface, as by raising the cut end this part of the operation may be facilitated." (See Listo7i's Elements, part iii. p. 377.) [ Two, three, or, perhaps, all four fingers may re- quire removal at their metacarpal ariiciikitions. — When all four are to be taken away, a transverse incision, slightly convex forwards, should be made completely across the dorsum of the hand, from one end to the other, a quarter of an inch in front of the metacarpo-phalangeal joints. Disarticulation of these joints, one after the other, is now to be ef- fected, when the knife may be made to cut a flap from the palm, which should extend forwards quite to the digital commissure. Care must be taken to leave the flap as large as possible at each side, otherwise there will not be sufficient covering for the heads of the second and fifth metacarpal b(mes. The elliptical incision, recommended by M. Sou- part, seems well adapted to obviate the inconveni- ence just alluded to. He makes the dorsal incision convex upwards, its middle part reaching as high as the level of the articulations to be opened, and its extremities terminating at each side, at the com- mencement of the digito-palniar furrow. The hand being supinated, he makes a palmnr incision, which follows exactly the digito-palmar fold, and joins the extremities of the one first made. The palmar flap is then dissected up, and the flexor tendons divided after which, the hand being again placed in the prone position, the extensor tendons ami lateral ligaments may be cut through, one after the other, and the joints disarticulated. (Sec Malgaiinic, op. cit. p. 2(!1,)] ^ ^ ; r. o 2