1035 HYDROCELE. alteration from change of posture, is not affected by coughing or sneezing, and occurs very soon alter birth, but is observed at all periods of life.]^ Scarpa observes that the diagnosis is more diffi- cult when the encysted hydrocele is of considerable bulk, because the testis is buried, as it were, in the tumor. [It is liable to be mistaken for an inguinal hernia. The size and shape of the tumor, and absence of the signs of hernia, will readily dis- tinguish between the two, besides that it does not extend up to the ring. If the tumor is small, and near the abdominal ring, it may admit of being pushed upwards into the inguinal canal, a circum- stance which renders the diagnosis rather difficult. On this point Mr. Curling remarks: " The facility, however, with which the vessels of the cord can generally be felt when the tumor has descended again, and the parts between the swelling and the ring are grasped between the finger and thumb, will enable the surgeon to ascertain the nature of the case. But if, as sometimes happens, the cyst be situated within the inguinal canal, or at the opening of the external ring, it is extremely diffi- cult to distinguish the swelling from a hernia, for it disappears under pressure, is very apparent when the patient is in the erect position, and is removed, or is less manifest, when he is in the recumbent posture. The diagnosis will be facilitated by ob- serving that although tlie tumor cannot be made to descend below the external ring, neither can it be thrust completely into the abdomen like a por- tion of intestine." {Diseases of the Testis, p. 160.) A case of this kind is related by the last-named writer, in which difficulty was experienced in the diagnosis, for above the swelling there was a slight hernial descent. Besides hernia, this affection might be mistaken for a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, and some- times it cannot be distinguished without difficulty from an encysted hydrocele of the testicle. Indeed, as has been observed by Mr. Curling and others, cases have been described as hydroceles of the cord, with fluid containing spermatozoa, which have been, in reality, encysted hydroceles springing from the epididymis. " When the cyst in the cord is situ- ated high up, the distinction is clear; but when it is close to the gland, and of large size, so that the testicle is more or less embedded in the tumor, this form of hydrocele is very readily mistaken for an encysted hydrocele of the testicle; nor is the diagnosis always possible. The chief distinctive mark is the circumstance that, notwithstanding its apparent close connection with the gland, the cyst may be detached by manipulation, and proved to be formed above, and distinct from, the testicle or epididymis; whereas, when an encysted hydrocele of the epididymis is pushed towards the ring, the testicle closely follows or moves with it." {Curl- ing, op. cit. p. 159.)] If the fluid was not absorbed. Pott recommended the cyst to be punctured in young children, and divided through its wlrole length in adults. Sir J. Earle proposed treating this case in the same way as the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, viz. by an injection of red wine and water. {On Hydrocele, p. 1,54, edit. 2.) However, an injection i'requontly fails, and is less certain to answer tiian the excision of a part of the cyst, or even a simple incision into it, the interior of the cyst being properly dressed after- wards. Dupuytren cites an instance in which fatal peritonitis ensued from injection, as there was a communication with the cavity of the abdo- men. A cautious incision into the cyst, in an obscure case, is the safest plan; it clears away all doubt. (See Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 443.) 1 have practised with success, in three or lour ex- amples, the operation of cutting down to the cyst, and removing the forepart of it, as described by Bertrandt, Hey, Richerand, and others. The cavity is then to have a little soft lint put into it. In this way the wound is to be dressed, till granu- lations have filled up the cavity. In removing a piece of the cyst, care must be taken not to injure the spermatic vessels. {Dupuytren, op. cit. p. 443.) Some surgeons merely cut into the swelling, and then introduce the lint. Sir Astley Cooper cures the hydrocele by passing a small seton, of three or four threads, through it, which is a mild and certain method. (See Sir A. Cooper, On the Structure, Sc., of the Testis.) Sir B. Brodie takes out the seton in about a week. [In children, the hydrocele often disappears spontaneously, and Mr. Curling thinks it better not to interfere with it in them or adults, so long as it is small and not painful. The com- pound tincture of iodine may be painted over the swelling every second or third day; and if it be a^source of annoyance from its bulk, acupuncture may be performed. " The injection of the tincture of iodine is quite applicable to this form of hydro- cele, and is the treatment which I recommend as both safe and effectual." (See Curling, On Diseases of the Testis, edit, 2, p. 162.) Mr. Hey considers the simplest and often the most efficient agent to be local depletion, and he has cured many by the application of two or three leeches. Should in- jection of iodine fail after puncture, the sac may be laid open and filled with lint, cotton wool, or charpie. To open the sac by elaborate dissection, v/ith a view to its removal, he states is not justi- fiable. (See Hey''s Operative Surgery, edit. 2, p. 608.) MM. Malgaigne and Ricord simply punc- ture the cyst, and then keep its walls in appo- sition by means of one or two pins. (See Jamain, Fath. et Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 539.)] [Encysted Hydrocele op the Testicle and Epididymis.] [Besides tlie foregoing varieties of hydrocele, there are others, which are also termed encysted. The effused fluid occupies one or more cysts distinct from the sac of the tunica vaginalis. " They may be developed in three situations : 1. Beneath the visceral portion of the tunica vaginalis investing the epididymis; 2. Between the testicular portion of the tunica vaginalis and the tunica albuginea which are thus separated from each other. 3. In connection with the loose or reflected portion of the tunica vaginalis. The first is by far the most common situation, the two hitter are very rare. These cysts are composed of a thin deli- cate membrane, and the fluid contained in them differs from that of simple hydrocele in being per- fectly limpid and colourless, and nearly free from albumen. The fluid contains molecular granules in great abundance. In the larger cysts, formed on the epididymis, the fluid, instead of being lim- pid, often presents an opaline opacity, arising from tho presence of spermatozoa." (See Curling, op. cit. p. 131.) When tho cysts developed in the upper part of the epididymis assumed a peduncu-