^^■^ HERNIA, clysters, are the means deserving of most depend- ence, and should be resorted to, without the least delay. In these circumstances, the warm bath, sometimes recommended, I think is more likely to do harm than good, by the disturbance to which_ it subjects the patient. When all danger of peritoneal inflammation is past, and the patient 13 very low and weak, bark, wine, cordials, and a generous diet must be directed. The effervescing saline draught with opium is the best medicine for quieting the disturbance of the stomach after the operation. Opium and cordials are the most eligible for checking diarrhoea. As the operation does not usually prevent the parts from becoming protruded again, a truss must be applied before the patient leaves his bed, and afterwards con- stantly worn. [In the after-treatment of cases which have been operated on for strangulated hernia, too much impor- tance has been hitherto attributed to the speedy eva- cuation of the contents of the bowels, and too little consideration given to the injured, and more or less inflamed state of the portion of the intestine just released from considerable and long-continued pressure. In the present day, most surgeons ab- stain from administering aperient medicines, and allow the injured intestine as much repose as pos- sible. Repeated doses of opium are often prescribed for the first few days, thus imitating the practice usually adopted after operations on the rectum. In a few days, if all tenderness has subsided, and the bowels do not act spontaneously, gentle aperients are given, or a simple enema administered. Should the symptoms indicate an extension of inflammatory action to the peritoneum generally, local bleeding by leeches, and the administration of calomel and opium in repeated doses, are chiefly depended upon. General bleeding is less frequently had recourse to than formerly, and even stimulants, in certain cases, are not considered inadmissible.] Operation for Strangulated direct Inguinal Hernia, Sir Astley Cooper advises an incision to be made through the integuments, along the middle of the tumor, from its upper to its lower part, following the longitudinal direction of the swelling, so that, if it has any inclination inwards towards the umbilicus, the incision is to incline in the same ■way. The fascire, or coverings of the hernia, being thus exposed, are to be divided, over the surface of the tumor, from the abdominal ring down to its lower extremity. The hernial sac is then to be cautiously opened from an inch below the ring. The finger is then passed into the sac, and tlie stricture felt for. If it is at the abdo- minal ring. Sir Astley Cooper introduces a blunt- pointed bistoury between the sac and the ring, and cuts the latter directly upwards. If the stric- ture is above the ring, he follows it with the knife, still in the same direction and anterior to it, op- Jiosite the middle of the mouth of the sac, till the dilatation is sufficient to allow his finger to slip into the cavity'of the abdomen. Then the pro- truded pans, if in a fit state for reduction, are tu be returned. "The parts (he observes) anterior to the sac, above the riuK, and divided bv the Kmie, are the tendons of the trausversalis and in- i'p!l»" e?^""^"'^ P''" [In addition to the skin and superficial fascia the parts to be divided during the operation v be the intercoluranar fascia, the tendons of the tra vorsalis and internal oblique muscles, the transv salis fascia, and lastly, the hernial sac] Mr. C. H. Todd had an opportunity of dissr ing an exceedingly uncommon variety of dir inguinal hernia, where the parts, " instead of pn ing anterior to the cord, protruded between : cord and the inferior pillar of the ring; so t the cord formed a sort of arch, embracing i neck of the sac for nearly two thirds of its circu ference, close to the external abdominal openinc (See Diihlin Hospital Reports, vol. i. p. IZ Hence, in operating on inguinal hernia, Mr. Tu always makes it a rule, after exposing the su; ficial fascia, and before dividing the parts coi. guous to the neck of the sac, "to feel minutely examine those parts (particularly if t! appear unusually bulky," and to satisfy hinij as to the situation of the spermatic cord. " Ha' ing done this (says he), I proceed with confiden to expose the superior pillar of the ring, whii ought, in every instance, to be completely denudi before a bistoury is introduced to cut the stri ture." (lb.) Proposals for the Radical Cuke op Inguinal Hernia. Of castrating the patient, applying caustic, of the operation of the punctum aureum with tl: view, I need only say that thej' are barbaror and not at all calculated for the attainment of tl desired end. A description of these methods n:: be found in Pai-e', Wiseman, &c. The old operation, termed the royal slilc/i, w one of the most promising plans. It consisted . putting a ligature under the neck of the hemi' sac, close to the abdominal ring, and then tvir that part of the sac, so as to render it impervior by the adhesive inflammation thus excited. Tl royal stitch, performed in this manner, has bee I actually attended with success. {Hekter, vol. ii Umbilical rupture was cured by Saviard o similar principles; and Desault radically cure nine cases of exoniphalos in children by tying th , hernial sac. Schmucker cured two irreducible ruptures, frt from strangulation, hy cutting away the body (■ the sac, after tying its neck. {Cliir. WaJirneV iimngcn., b. ii.) In one case Sir A. Cooper foiui cutting away the sac alone insuflicient. Petit, Sharp, Acrel, &c., record cases whic prove the danger and general iucflicacy of th royal stitch. Richter recommends scarifj-ing the neck of t' sac, with the view of producing an adhesion of sides to each other, a plan which, lie says, K found successful. In liJ29, M. Belmns suggested the scheme o. introducing into the upper part of the hernial sai "ittle bladder or pouch, made of goldbeater; skin, and filled witli air. The plastic mattei (fibrine), which is soon effused, penetrates tlu material of which the little bladder is compose'^ and becomes, in some measure, combined with i The whole is alleged to acquire or//aiiisalioii, to contract adhesions to the ring and neck of tl'^ sac, so as to constitute a barrier against the c^ scent of the viscera. The plan is asserted to li!i^'' succeeded both on man and animals. The parMC lars, which are curious, are given by M, > cipC'