ternal lateral ligament, the detachment of the point of the inner malleolus, and fracture of the lower part of the tibia. [These conditions, accompanied by dislocation of the foot outwards, constitute the injury known as Pott's fracture, or Pott's dislocation.] Besides distortion of the foot outwards or inwards, as attending certain fractures of the fibula, another complication may be dislocation ol the foot backwards, produced by the action of the muscles of the calf, and not by the same causes which broke the bone. However, whenever the malleolus internus has not given way, the disloca- tion is incomplete, and the foot is inclined out- wards as well as backwards. (See Dislocatims of the Ankle-joint.) Although fractures of the middle and upper parts of the fibula are often overlooked and neglected, there is no displacement, and no ill consequences ensue ; but things are different with regard to frac tures of the lower end of the bone. In an example of fracture of tlie lower end of the fibula, that was mistaken for a sprain, the patient was permitted to walk about before union had taken place. The consequences were a distortion of the foot, and a tendency to a dislocation of it inwards, followed by such severe symptoms as nearly led to amputation. After a confinement of eight months, the limb was saved; but the ankle continued stiff, and of course the patient was yet a cripple. (See J. Cloqtiet, Palholoyie Cldr. p. 45.) Some interesting par- ticulars of the dissection of a case of dislocation of the ankle, and fracture of the fibula, which had been neglected for three or four weeks, the limb being in continued exertion all this time, were pub- lislied by Mr. Lawrence. (See Med.-Chir. Trans. vol. xvii. p. 58.) [According to M. Malgaigne, an easy and sure means to distinguish between a sprain and a frac- ture of the fibula unattended with displacement, is to make pressure successively upon the lateral liga- ments and upon the outer side of the fibula, from one to three inches above the malleolus: pain pro- duced by pressure upon the ligaments indicates a sprain; pain confined to a limited portion of the fibula belongs almost exclusively to a dislocation, (t. i. p. 812.)] Treatment of Fractures of the Fibula.—?q\X % method of treating fractures of the fibula, compli- cated with luxation of the tiliia, is described iu the article Dislocations. I consider it a very in- ferior plan to that followed in University College Hospital with M'Intyre's apparatus. I would make the same observation with respect to Du- puytren'a mode, ingenious and scientific as it is. Pott's method of treatment is not calculated to prevent the falling-in of the lower extremity of the fibula towards the tibia. In a fracture of the lower end of the fibuln, when the foot is brought into the state of extreme adduction, it draws liy means of tlie lateral ligaments the point of the outer malleolus in an inward direction, ami, coti- Ber|iiently, the fractured portion corresponding to it is drawn outwards from the tibia. It is on this principle that Dnpuytrcn's mode of treating this accident is founded. In all cases, then, a fracture of the fibula, accompanied with distortion of the foot outwards, requires nn apparatus which maintains the foot turned inwards, and the inferior fragment of the filnvla raised from the tibia, and in the direction of the superior fragment. The simple FRACTURE. 7G1 apparatus recommended by Dnpuytren is as fol- lows : a cushion, a splint, and two bandages are the whole of it. The cushion, made of linen, and stuffed two-thirds full of hair-balls, or chaff en- closed in bags in the usual manner, should be two feet and a half in length, four or five inches in breadth, and three or four inches in thickness. The splint is to be from twenty to twenty-three inches in length, and three inches broad. Lastly, the two rollers should each be from four to five yards in length. The cushion, doubled in the form of a wedge, should be applied on the internal side of the fractured limb, its base below, and resting on the internal malleolus, without passing beyond it ; its summit above on the internal con- dyle of the femur. The limb is thus protected from the splint, which derives from the pad a sup- port that keeps it at the distance of several inches from the internal margin of the foot, and at the same time tends to throw the tibia outward. The splint, applied along the cushion, should extend six or seven inches below it, which will be about four inches below the internal margin of the foot. These parts of the apparatus being thus disposed, should then be fixed by one of the bandages passed round the limb below the knee, when the portion of the splint extending below the cushion will leave between itself and the foot an interval of several inches, and furnish & point (Tuppui to which the foot may be drawn from without inwards. In order to effect this purpose, the second bandage should be drawn from this point over the instep and heel, alternately embracing the splint and the parts of the limb j ust indicated, in circles gradually lessening, and forming the figure of the cipher 8 with the crossing part on the splint. Thus the ap- paratus acts on the principle of a lever of thB first kind, in which the point d'appui is the base of the cushion, a little above the malleolus internus, and in which the resistance, as well as the power act- ing on the fracture, are in the extremities of the foot. The foot thus drawn must yield to the action of the lower bandage, while the tibia, pressed by the base of the cushion, must be propelled out- wards with the astragalus. Lastly, it is evident that as the lower fragment of the fibula is drawn downwards by the external lateral ligaments of the ankle, a tilting movement must be produced on the external surface of the astragalus, contrary to that which displaced it. With the view of obtaining a complete reduction, Dupuytren says that the siu'geon must not confine himself to draw- ing the foot in a perpendicular line under the limb; it must be brought as much inwards as it had been turned outwards by the poronreal muscles. After the foot has been retained a good while in this forced state of adduction, if it should not return to its ordinary position, the defect may be easily remedied by applying the preceding appara- tus to the outer sin-face of tlie leg and foot. When, with a fracture of the fibula, the foot is drawn backwards and upwards, Dnpuytren applies the splint and cushion to the back part of the leg down to the licol. One roller is applied below the knee, and a second round the lower end of the tibia and splint. A square pad should always bo put botwceia the lower baiulage and the tibia. Of 207 cases of fiactnro of the libuln, comprising all the varieties of this accident treated in the abovo way by Dupuytren, 202 were cured ; the remain- ing five died, three of them from the consequences