body becoming useless when under such treatnient, as may be obs rved of muscles when their joint, tendon, &c., is diseased, or whetlier it accords better witli the diseased state, and may even tend to a natural ciu'e. " From the above account of the final cause of the absorption of whole parts from disease, it would appear that they are capable of being absorbed from five causes. First, from parts being pressed ; secondly, from parts being considerably irritated by irritating substances ; thirdly, from parts being weakened ; fourthly, from parts being rendered useless ; fifthly, from parts becoming dead. " The dispositions of the two parts of the living body," continues Hunter, " which absorb and are absorbed, must be of two kinds respecting the parts, one passive and the other active. The first of these is an irritated state of the part to be absorbed, which renders it unfit to remain under such circumstances, the action excited by this irri- tation being incompatible with the natural actions and existence of the parts, whatever these are, which therefore become ready for removal, or yield to it with ease. The second is, the absorbents being stimulated to action by such a state of parts, so that both conspire to the same end." We have thus, at some length, and in his own language, detailed Hunter's doctrines of absorption, because, as we have before intimated, they form, as it were, part of the very basis, of the very sub- stratum of principles which have been accepted by members of the'profession, whose studies were car- ried on before the modern chemical and microscopic era. They form a great fact in the history of medi- cine, and even though now superseded, they deserve to be recorded, partly as an element of the progress of opinion, partly because amidst their error they present a certain grandeur of conception, and be- cause they illustrate the mode in which one false step in reasoning may be the parent of infinite confusion. We may pass over that incessant attempt to demonstrate final causes, which is so characteristic of Hunter, and in which he is sedulously imitated by a crowd of writers, who deceive themselves with the idea that they can penetrate the pur- pases and intentions of the Creator, although it is hardly possible to suppress a smile at the extra- vagant notion of an elaborate machinery being pro- vided to effect the emaciation of illness, on the ground, that "strength is unnecessary while under disease." We may pass over also the extravagant solidism, which refers every change to the action of organs, and takes no account of their composition. Suffice it to say, that the very foundation of the doctrine is a mistake. The universal existence and ngency of absorbent vessels, with or without mouths, is neither proved nor probable, and all the hypotheses of their various effects are so many dreams. In fact, as Mr. Lane observed (in his article on the Jjym\ii\t\\\i:s, Cyclop. Anal, and Phijs. 1041), we may " confine the functions of the lympiiatic system within tlie bounds ascribed to the lacteal vessels during the process of digestion, viz. to se- lect and prepare nutritious materials for the pur- pose of sanguification." Moreover, as Mr. Lane says, " we are going too far in attributing to the lymphatics the important and universal function of interstitial absorption in the process of growth and nutrition ; and it is without sufficient proof ABSORPTION. .15 that we admit the ulcerative process to be car- ried on solely by the lymphatic system." And it is curious to observe, that in the midst of Hunter's strong assertions of the fact of their operation, and his claims of being the first to an- nounce it, he never once seems to feel it necessary to bring forward any proof whatever of the truth of what he asserts. Let us now rapidly enumerate the various pro- cesses in the human body, which may be denomi- nated by the term absorption; after which we shall make a few observations on the manner in which foreign substances may be introduced into the circulation, and the manner in which that in- troduction may be prevented ; and then on the cases in which the surgeon is interested in the absorption of parts of the body, or of fluids infil- trating these, and on the medicines most calculated to produce that kind of absorption. And in the first place let us remark, that absorp- tion may be considered in iwo ligliis, an active and a passive. It may be considered, as Hunter con- sidered it, an action, an operation, a work done by the agency of some instrument; or, on the other hand, as a mere passive or negative process ; as a thing suffered. If, for example, we speak of the lacteals se- lectmg certain materials from the contents of the intestine, taking them into their own tubes by a particular mechanism, and passing them onwards, we speak of an active process, a work done by certain instruments. When, on the other hand, we speak of the imbi- bition of any vapour by the lungs, or of any liquid by the skin, which those parts, by virtue of their physical conformation, cannot help imbibing if presented to them, any more than blotting-paper can help sucking up ink; or when we sp^eak of loss of substance and deperissement, which the whole body or any part of it sufiers if deprived of Its nourishment, it is evident that these processes are merely passive or negative. A poisonous va- pour penetrates the substance of skin always, and this not by any action of those parts as living, but by virtue of their composition whether living or dead. To speak, too, of the wasting of illness as an absorption, when it is merely the negation of nourishment, is surely an abuse of the term. Novv most of the cases described under the title absorption are of the negative or passive kind. In the first place there is the imbibition, which takes place through all surfaces, of matters pre- sented to them, whether liquid, or gaseous, or solid If divided to a sufficient degree of minuteness. Physical imbibition, by virtue of porosity and of mutual attraction between the imbibing membrane and the gas or iquid imbibed, is the proper name of this form of absorption. The imb-lbition of oxy- gen by the skin and lungs ; the imbibition of water and of nutrient fluids by tongue, throat, stomach and every part of the alimentary canal, are e.xami p cs of tlus process under the ordinary conditions of iiealth ; whilst the absorption of chloroform and sirai ar vapours by the lungs, of hydrocyanic acid hy tlie mouth or skin, of mercury in the form of v;(pour or ointment, of nutrient or anodyne onemata by Die rectum, are exMmples of the same process, owing cither to accident or to the intention of the medical practitioner. But for this kind of absorption no special agents or set of vessels are required; it is a function per-