CANCER. 301 geon wlio first sees the breast in this state, niay doubt whether the disease be actual cancer or common sarcoma. The substance of the tumor is also much less hard than in the specimen first described ; yet it is more compact and weighty than most other diseases of the same bulk which are not carcinomatous. If the history of the dis' ease accords with that of carcinoma; that is to say, if it began in a small district, and regularly and unabatingly attained its present magnitude; if the surface of the tumor be unequal, having produced in various parts roundish projecting knobs, the disease will almost invariably be found to be carcinoma. The skin will soon adhere to one or more of these prominences; it will ulcerate and expose the subjacent parts; and the future progress of the disease will accord to that of the harder and smaller specimen," except that the ab- sorbents are much less liable to be affected. The edges of a cancerous ulcer are hard, rag- ged, and unequal, very painful, and reversed in different ways, being sometimes turned upwards and backwards, and, on other occasions, inwards, The whole surface of the sore is commonly un- equal : in some parts there are considerable ris ings, whilst, in others, there are deep excavations. The discharge, for the most part, is a thin, dark coloured, fetid ichor ; and is often possessed of such a degree of acrimony, as to excoriate, and even destroy, the neighbouring parts. In th more advanced stages of the disease, a good deal of blood is often lost from the ulcerated vessels, A burning heat is universally felt over the ulcer- ated surface ; and this is the most tormenting symptom that attends the disorder. Those shoot- ing, lancinating pains, which are sometimes very distressing in the occult state of the complaint, become now a great deal more so. {B. Bell.) According to Sir Charles Bell, scirrhus of the breast belongs to that period of life when the ute- rine functions cease. Menstruation becomes irre- gular, both in respect to time and quantity. Long intervals occur, after which the discharge is pro- fuse, with unusual distuibanco of the general system. The mamma, in particular, sympathises with the condition of the uterus; pains shoot through it, and it swells; and when the general fulness and tension subside, a partial hardness, an indurated lump, is left, with irregular margins, which mix with the substance of the breast. The hardness extends, until the whole gland is unusu- allj- firm, the disease becoming at the same time tuberculated, or knobby and irregular. The veins enlarge, and assume a deep blue colour. In the meantime, the strength declines, and the patient becomes emaciated. The nipple is now not only drawn in and incapable of erection, but retracted in comparison with the irregular convexity of the mamma. In a later stage, the skin is puckered and tucked in. These parts now firmly adhere to the subjacent mass, and sometimes there is bleed- ing from the nipple; in which case, the axillary glands are affected early. The disease may begin very differently. A small hard tumor is felt deeply seated in the mamma. It is difficult to distinguish whether or not it is a part of the proper gland. It becomes painful, approaches the surface, becomes attached to the mamma and to the skin, and is gradually incorporated with them. The skin becomes dis- coloured, the surface moist, and the patient is ap- prehensive of the occurrence of a sore. At length the part does ulcerate, and begins to discharge. The bottom of the sore is foul and sloughy; the smell is offensive ; and the constitution sympa- thises with the state of the sore. The whole gland is now hard, and adherent to the pectoral muscle. The edges of the sore are particularly hard, and present a dark red, glazed appearance. They are not everted and curling, but rather depressed under the general convexity of the tumor. This will certainly be the appearance in a fat woman. The chasm is deep, with solid, abrupt, sharp edges. In proportion as its depth increases, the surround- ing hardness extends, and the whole breast feels of a stony hardness. Cancer of the breast sometimes assumes another form, which is also well described by Sir C. Bell: although the disease commences in the mamma, it rather propagates itself by extending its peculiar structure to the cutaneous glandular texture. Around the nipple, tubercles are felt in the skin, which extend to the skin of the breast, neck, and shoulders, and soon become painful. At first, they assume a high red colour ; then a yellowish trans- parency in the centre. They do not suppurate and break, but change into corroding ulceration. It is a form of the same disease, says Sir C. Bell, when the breast presents a tumor elevated, tuber- culated, and remarkably firm, without any elasti- city, but, on the contrarj-, fixed to the side, and presenting one consolidated mass. The surface is granular, and of a deep, or rather dark red colour, with a bluish cast, somewhat like the colour of a peach. This tumor ulcerates, and sloughs, and bleeds profusely. The disease is propagated by tubercles under the skin, towards the sternum and clavicles; and it is a case soon accompanied with effusion in the chest. (C. Bell, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xii. p. 216, 220.) On dissection, Sir Astley Cooper observes, that the breast is one solid mass like cartilage, with very httle vascularity except at its edges, and in- ternally fibrous. When the breast has acquired any magnitude, he says, there is generally an open- ing in It, m which case it has the appearance in- ternally of being worm-eaten, and spongy. In the situation of tlie ulceration it is very vascular and bloody serum is met with. The absorbent glands put on the same character as the scirrhous breast The cellular membrane, skin, and muscles are also' affected. Sometimes the diseased glands above the clavicle press upon the thoracic duct, and thus interrupt the transmission of chyle into the blood Hence the appetite is sometimes voracious, though the patient is rapidly wasting. I„ the chest, on the same side as the disease, hydrotlior.nx prevails and the absorbents on the pleura are in a morbid state, and small white spots, like pins' heads, are !ible. Iraces of scirrhous disorder Sir Astlev Cooper ikewise represents as occasionally existinc in the liver, utprna. A:,- S [M. Velpeau s experience in the diseased states of the breast has been so great, that it seems very desirable to present a brief account of the several forms of cancer which he recognises according to naked eye inspection. He makes two principal varieties (1) Liyneous scirrhus, and (2) Lardaceous scirriius. The principal characteristics of the former are hardness, " the inextcnsibility of wood and no fixed limits, so that they arc continuous with the neighbouring tissues, without appreciable