an inclination to void it, a quantity of clear in- offensive mucus, like the white of an egg, amount- ing to about four ounces, is expelled from the anus ; and this may occur two or three times in the day." When he is purged, the food frequently passes Avith little alteration ; this he has noticed par ticularly of cucumber. He experiences great ■weakness at such times. Ale will sometimes pass off in five minutes from the time of drinking, hav- ing apparently undergone little or no alteration. The bowels are strongly affected by slight doses of purgatives." {Treatise on Hernia, Sth ed. p. 416.) Sliould the protruded intestine become strangu- lated, an operation may be necessary for the re- moval of the stricture. {Suhmucher, VermiscMe CMrttrgische Scliriften, t. ii.) Two cases, which terminated fatally from this cause, are mentioned by Sabatier, in a memoir in the Sth tome de I'Acad. de Chir. Mr. Lawrence also refers to Le Blanc. (Precis d'Operaiions de Chir. torn. ii. p. 44.5.) We should always endeavour to prevent such protrusions, when a disposition to their for- mation seems to exist, by the use of a steel truss, which should, indeed, be worn by the patient, in- dependently of this circumstance. If the tumor has become irreducible by the hand, an attempt may be made to replace it by keeping up a con- stant pressure on the part, the patient being at the same time confined to bed. (Lawrence, op, cit. p. 421.) By these means, Desault returned a very laro-e prolapsus ; and by pressure on the opening, the fceces were made to pass entirely by the anus, al- though for four years they had been voided only through the wound. (Parisian Journ. vol. i. p. 178.) In cases of artificial anus, the appearance of the mucous coat of the bowel undergoes some change, in consequence of exposure to the air on the con- tact of extraneous bodies ; it becomes redder and less villous ; but does not cease to secrete a great quantity of mucus : this is one of the principal reasons why it is so difficult to close the fistulous opening, even when the passage for the fteces has been restored. The skin around an artificial anus is also generally very irritable, and rendered exceedingly painful by the contact of the excre- ment. (Ih-eschct, in Graefc's Journ. b. ii. p. 303.) With respect to the prognosis, it is universally agreed, that cceleris paribus, an artificial anus is more dangerous the nearer it is to the stomach, for reasons already explained. An opening produced by injuries of the ca;cum, colon, or rectum, has scarcely any effect on that part of the digestive function termed assimilation. The risk is also in some measure greater, in proportion as the quantity of intestinal matter voided from it is more consider- able. The prognosis is more favourable, when the two orifices of the bowel are readily found at the bottom of the artificial anus, than when only the orifice of the upper end is discoverable. Lastly, the more free an artificial anus is from complica- tions and accidental ill consequences, the less is tiie patient the subject of annoyance and danger. (See Dujmylrcn, Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 22;i.) _ Trmtme.nt.—The treatment of an artillcial anus IS either palliative or radical. The first consists in obviating the habitual uncieanliness i^oduccd by the involuntary discharge of the intestinal matter, and in relicvini; any unpleasant symptoms present. The first indication is fulfilled by the eniploy- ANUS. 271 ment of silver, or tin machines, which are either kept applied to the external opening bv means of a spring, or form receptacles placed more or less dis- tant from the artificial anus, from which the intesti- nal matter is transmitted through a tube, kept con- stantly in the opening. In general, says Desault, as elastic gum is supple, light, and capable of taking any shape, it is the best material for the construction of such instruments, which, however, rarely answer their purpose completely. An instrument of this kind, the construction of which appears very perfect, is delineated by Juville. (Traite. des Band. Herniaires, sect. viii. pi. vii. and yiii.) An ordinary inguinal truss is made with an ivory pad, perforated in its middle, so as to fit the opening. A tube of elastic gum, furnished with a valve opening downwards, leads from this perfora- tion to a receiver of silver, which is attached by a screw to the lower end of the tube, and lies against the inside of the thigh. The silver vessel may be unscrewed and emptied without disturbing the rest of the instrument. It has been found, in some in- stances, that a common elastic truss, with a com- press of lint under the pad, has been more service- able than any complicated instrument in preventing the continual flow of faeculent matter from the artificial opening. (Treatise on Hernia, 5th ed. p. 388.) ' Richter, with the view of hindering the too quick escape of the intestinal matter, and the death of the patient from this cause, proposed covering the opening for a certain time with a piece of sponge, supported by an elastic bandage, or truss. But Loeffler found this method objectionable, as it was apt to bring on colic, constipation, and an inflamed excoriated state of the skin. When the outer opening is disposed to contract too much, and inconveniences arise from this change., Sabatier is an advocate for preventing such clo- sure by means of a tent, or skein of silk, introduced into the aperture, and changed very often for the sake of cleanliness ; while others prefer a ring of ivory lor the purpose. But the irritation produced by the matter imbibed by this sort of tent, and in particular the liability of the bowel to protrude and be strangulated in the opening of the ivory ring, are found strong objections to these practices. Desault preferred a linen tent, compress, and bandage. The investigations of Scarpa and Dupuytren fully prove, that the causes of the discharge of the intestinal matters through an artificial anus and the obstacles to their resuming their natural course and to a radical cure, depend, — 1st, Upon the' adhesion, angular direction, and fi.xed condition of -the bowel. 2nd, Upon tlie loss of substance which it has sustained, and the consequent con- traction of it. 3rd, Upon the jutting angle (('nc- ran) and the double septum between its two orifices. Those obstacles, great as they may be, are sometimes overcome by nature and art. Loss of substance is indeed irreparable; but amends for it may bo made in certain cases by a dilatation of the calibre of the bowel. Its adhesion to the parietes of the abdomen may also become less close, or even so loosened as to let the bowel assume a position and direction more favourable for the re-establishment of tlie course of its con- tents. The projection, formed by the !;peron and double septum, may also be lessened by being con- tinually dragged by the mcsoutery, and subjected