672 at hand, including watery solutions of creosote, of nitrate of lead, chloride of zinc, Condy's permanga- nates, and the chloride of lime; which, if effectually applied, will neutralise putrescent matter. In the general treatment, the first point is to supply a most abundant and varied nutriment, so that the blood, filled with new and healthy matter, may better bear the exhaustion consequent upon the elimination of the old. The ingenuity of the practitioner will often be taxed to suggest fresli articles to stimulate an enfeebled stomach, for it is most true that novelty and change are most essen- tial. First, we may mention the preparations of meat; essence of beef and gravy soups ; turtle, mock-turtle, calves' tail, and other gelatinous soups- milk flavoured with rum, with orange peel, or va- nilla; isinglass; fish soup, fish pudding with cream, custards thickened with pounded meat; potted beel or tongue; the starches in their turn, arrowroot, sago, tapioca, tons les mois and salep; Indian meal, chocolate and cocoa; the oily fishes, cod-liver oil,' eels, American oysters; gum-arabic and tragacanth- lastly, the various wines and beers, especially Guinness's genuine Dublin porter. Next to nourishment, the means of sharpening the appetite are to be cultivated. For most cases an acid tonic with quina in small doses, or some other light bitter, answers best; or perhaps the nitromuriatic or sulphuric acid. For sleeplessness and pain, adequate doses of morphine should be given. When the paroxysms of shivering are diurnal and regidar, the writer has sometimes succeeded in postponing or averting them by large doses of quinine, or by opiates, or ether, given before the fit, as in ague. But this plan does not answer many times in succession. _ The perspirations may be mitigated by the dilute mineral acids, Griffiths' iron mixture, or, as Dr. R. Dickson suggests, by the oxyde of zinc. Diarrhoea may be mitigated likewise by the mineral acids; or, if the tongue be red and aphthous, by bismuth, chalk, gum, and small doses of opium, Vegetable bitters and astringents have their uses, provided they promote and do not interfere with the appetite and digestion. Pure tannin in grain doses ; or still better, the decoction of oak- bark, or tincture of galls, is a very efficient and agreeable tonic ; the pure bitter quassia or hop is also palatable; and the decoction of bark with nitric acid requires no praise. (7?. Druill.) FINGERS. with tho ulnar side of "the metacarpal bone or first 1 phalanx of the little finger, or with the radial side' ot the analogous bones of the thumb.] Fingers Supkrnumerahy. Since allowing the redundant number of fingers to remam would keep up deformity, and create tuture inconvenience, the surgeon is called upon to amputate them. The redundant fingers may be with, or without, a nail; seldom more numerous than one upon each hand ; generally situated just on the outside of the little fingers; and, so far as my observation extends, incapable of motion in consequence of not being furnished, like the rest of the fingers, with muscles. For the most part, the phalanges are also imperfectly formed, or deficient. The best plan is to cut off supernumerary fingers with a scalpel, at the place where they are united to the other part of the hand. The operation should be performed while the patient is an infant, that is to say, before the superfluous parts have acquired much size. Fingers, Permanent Contraction of. FINGERS, ABSCESSES OF, see Whitlow; Amputation of, see Amputation ; Disloca- tions OF, see Dislocation; FiiactuuEs op, sec Fracture. [The fingers may bo more or less numerous than ordinary, and when perfectly Ibrniod, require no surgical treatment. Of this abnormal develop- ment the former is of more frequent occurrence than the latter. The supernumerary digit is gene- rally situated on the ulnar side of the hand : when on the radial side, which is much more rare, two thumbs are present. These irregularities are here- uitniy, and usually occur on both hands ; they do not interfere with the usefulness of the hand or the remaining iingers. M. Nelaton mentions a case ot four fingers only, or rather of three fingers r ^ I,'' J ""^ ' '^^-'i^'^'icy occurred on the Jeit hand. Similar cases are on record uffectiiio- mlT l'"P°'f'--=tly formed supern." meraiy tmgers are occasionally found articulated Baron Dupuytren has made some interesting observations on this affection, to which each of the fingers, but especially the ring-finger, is liable. Most of the individuals who have this infirmity have been accustomed to make eflbrts with the palm of the hand, and to handle bodies of great hardness. When a tendency to the complaint be- gins, some difficulty is experienced in extending the fingers ; and the affected one, usually the ring- finger, soon becomes contracted ; the metacarpal phalanx being first implicated, and the others afterwards inclining in the same direction. In this stage the flexion of the two adjacent fingers becomes more marked, but no knottiness is yet perceptible in front of, and around the cord on the palmar side of the ring-finger. Its second and third phalanges are straight and movable ; the first is bent more or less to a right angle, and is movable on the metacarpal bone ; but it cannot be put into the straight position by the most violent efforts. Dupuytren refers to a case in which a trial was made to cure the patient by means of the application of different weights, which were increased up to 150 lbs., without the fle.xion being removed. When the ring-finger liasbecorae veiy much bent, the skin is thrown intocurvedfolds,theconcavities of which are towards the fingers, and the convexities towards the radio-carpal articulation. On first in- spection one might suppose tho skin to be diseased; but this is not the case. A tense cordis felt on the palmar side of the finger; it extends towards the first phalanx, and may be traced to the upper part of the palm. When the finger is bent, it disappears almost entirely. If attempts be made to extend the fingers, the tendon of the palmaris muscle is felt to move, and the motion is propagated to the upper part of the palmar fascia. The patient is unable to grasp largish bodies; and, if ho try to take hold of them more forcilily, or an endeavour be made to extend the fingers, he experiences acute pain. The causes of this disease were formerly referred either to thickening and contraction of the skin, spasm of the muscles, disease of the flexor tendons, or that of their fibrous sheaths, or some change in the arti- cular surfaces and lateral ligaments. All was uii-