I HERNIA, than in the outward direction. It may therefore be fairly concluded that, in the majority of these 37 instances, a hernial sac would not be found with the obturator artery on its upper and inner side. Mr. Allan Burns records an interesting case in which a double femoral hernia occurred where the obturator artery thus crossed the femoral ring. One of the hernial sacs was situated internal to the artery, the other external to it; and this latter was found to occupy the compartment of the sheath containing the femoral vein. It has generally been supposed, that when the obturator artery arises low down from the epigastric, it would be situated at the outside of the femoral ring, and that its origin high up from the epigastric would cause it to take its upper and inner margin. This opinion is i combated by Mr. Quain; he found that the direc- I tion the obturator takes to gain the opening in the I obturator fascia, is but little influenced by the level I of its origin from the epigastric] When the origin and course of the epigastric : artery differ from what is common, this vessel, as . Hesselbach remarks, sometimes passes inwards ! along the horizontal branch of the os pubis, ere it ; ascends towards the rectus muscle; and when this ' variation exists in a case of femoral hernia, the ; artery does not pass over the outer side of the neck I of the sac, but first under it, and then round its i inner side. Hesselbach has seen only one instance 1 of this irregularity of the epigastric artery in a 1 female, and never in a male subject. {Ucber den Ursprung, ^c. der Leislen-undS'chenJcelbrilche, p. . 62.) It is observed by Professor Scarpa, that " the round ligament of the uterus, in passing through the abdominal muscles, follows precisely the same track as the spermatic cord. It is equally situated behind Poupart's ligament, with the difference, that it does not become so distinct from the internal extremity of this ligament, as the spennatic cord does, because it has not so far to run, in order to get from that ligament to the inguinal ring, the latter opening being situated lower in the female than in the male subject. The round ligament, like the spermatic cord, also crosses the epigastric artery, before reaching the inguinal ring. And as crural hernia always begins at the internal and inferior angle of the arch of this name, as vvell in the male as the female, it follows that, in the two sexes, the epigastric artery remains in its na- tural situation, and invariably corresponds to the external side of the neck of a crural hernia; whilst the spermatic cord in men, and the round ligament in women, pass over the extremity of the front of the neck of the hernial sac. In the ope- ration for crural hernia, in females, the incision of the neck of the hernial sac, and of the crural arch, when directed upward towards the linea alba, can- not wftund the epigastric artery, which it is of the most consequence to avoid; but it always divides, cither totally, or partially, the round ligament of the uteras, which cannot lead to any dangerous hsemorrhage; for, except in the period of preg- nancy, the arteries of the round ligament are very small; they are almost obliterated in women ad- vanced in years; and, in general, they are quite capillary in the extremity of the ligament adjoining the ring. Hence, it cannot be surprising, that so many crural hcrniaj have been successfuly ope- rated upon in women, by cutting tlie hernial sac 989 and crural arch directly upward, while not a single instance can be cited of such an incision being made in man without mischief, although, in both sexes, the epigastric artery may have been avoided in operating by this process." (Scarpa, Traite dcs Hernies, p. 240.) In operating upon crural hernia in males, Scarpa recommends us to follow a method, which he calls new, but which, in fact, is the same as that advised by Gimbernat. " I have found (says Scarpa) that, in man, the neck of the hernial sac may be divided without danger, by giving to the incision a direction exactly contrary to that which is practised in the female subject. After having opened the hernial sac, it is to be drawn outward by one of its sides sufBciently to allow the intro- duction of a small director between its neck and the strangulated intestine, t/ie groove of the instru- ment being timied downicards towards the internal and inferior angle of the cniral arch. A proha- pointed histotiry, the edge of which is also to be directed downwards toicards the point of insertion of PouparCs ligament to the pzcbes, is to be pushed along the groove. By this means the neck of tlie hernial sac will be divided its ivhole length, at its internal and inferior side, and Pouparfs ligament will be cut close to its attachment to the top of the OS pubis. The epigastric artery will certainly be avoided, because it lies upon the opposite side of the hernial sac. As for the spermatic cord, I have demonstrated, that it is situated on the fore- part of the neck of the hernial sac; consequently it cannot be touched by an incision made from above downwards, whilst it is constantly cut in the ordinary method, since the knife is carried from below upwards. In the first case, this part may- be the more easily avoided, as it lies at some dis- tance from the internal and inferior angle of the crural arch. In fact, it is at this place that it quits, as we have seen, the edge of Poupart's ligament, in order to ascend towards the inguinal ring. The incision that I propose (says Scarpa) not only has the advantage of slitting open the neck of the her- nial sac its whole length, it also divides a part of the insertion of Poupart's ligament into the upper part of the os pubis, a thing that greatly contributes to relax the crural arch, and facilitate the reduction of the viscera; of those, at least, which are not adherent to the sac." (Scarpa, op. cit. p. 235.) Hesselbach considers an incision through the an- terior side of the crural ring safer than one through Gimbernat's ligament, and safer in women than men. In women he recommends the cut to bo made through the middle of the fore part of the ring, nearly straight upwards, or a little inclined inwards, in which mode the epigastric artery can- not be hurt, whether it lie at the outer or inner side of the neck of the sac. In men this incision directed obliquely upwards and inwards, he says' cannot be made, on account of the nearness of the spermatic cord. Therefore, in the male subject, he advises cutting the inner side of the opening that is to say Gimbernat's or the femoral ligament', directly inwards towards the symphysis of the os pubis. {Ueber den Ursprung der Lcisten-mid- Schenlcelbruche, p. S I.) When' the epigastric, or obturatrix, artery deviates from its usual course and surrounds the inner side of the neck of the hernia (which variety can never be ascertained a priori), a wound of the vessel Hesselbach regards as miavoidablc.