AMPUTATION. 109 groin with his tliiinib, or any commodious -trunient luniished witli a round blunt end, cal- i :l;ited for making direct pressure on tlic vessel « itiiout injuring the integuments. Some authors, nuleed, give a general preference to this method, « bother the thigh be amputated high up or low ilnvn. {Puroisse, O/msciiles cle Chii: p. 108; iji'iinninghuusen, Erfuhr. uher die Amp. p. 273; l.iuiyenbeck. Bill. C/iir. p. 5G4; Listoii, Ohs. in Ed. .Ucd. and Surff. Jount. vol. xx. p. 43, and Ete- Ills, part iii. p. 362.) Were the patient, how- in a debilitated state, and unable to bear loss i f blood, as there might, in this way, be consider- alile bleeding, by reason of the anastomoses with e branches of the internal iliac artery, I should 1 disposed to employ the tourniquet whenever cumstances would conveniently admit of its ap- cation. In amputations of the thigh the great objection to the use of this instrument is, that it impedes the free and immediate retraction of the loose muscles after they have been cut; the conse- quence of which is, that the surgeon cannot divide SI) high, as he otherwise could do, the deeper muscles, which are more fixed and attached to the lioiie. Yet, in order to have the bone well covered V. ith flesh, and no danger of a sugar-loaf stump, the latter object is one of vast importance. Perhaps the best general rule is, to abandon the application of the tourniquet in amputations performed as high as the middle of the thigh, except where the patient is remarkably weak, so that he cannot bear the smallest loss of blood, and no stead}-, intelligent assistant is at hand, to whom the compression of the artery in the groin can be prudently confided. Mr. Guthrie, in speaking of amputations on the two lower thirds of the thigh, observes, that " in these cases the tourniquet should be used;" but in operations high up the thigh, he joins all other surgeons in recommending the inguinal artery to be compressed against the os pubis. (On Gujisliot Wounds, p. 202.) The utility of slackening the tourniquet completely, however, as soon as the principal vessels are secured,—apiece of advice delivered by this excellent surgeon, — I presume, cannot be right on the ground which he specifies, viz. the impediment made by the strap of the in- strument to the retraction of the muscles, and the consequent difficulty, in high operations, of sawing the bone, because in common practice the hone is alioays saivn liejure anij of the vessels are secured; and loosening the tourniquet entirely, wliile any arterial branches still require the ligature, must generally be objectionable, if loss of blood be a disadvantage.' In flap amputations, high up the limb, indeed, where the arteries are sometimes tied, before the division of the bone, the employ- ment of a tourniquet at all is quite out of tlic question. Circular Amputation of the Thiyh. — Whether the right or left thigh is to be removed, it is customary, in England, for the operator to stand on the patient's right side. In France, the siu'- gcon places himself on the outer side for cither limb, which plan, when the left limb is to be re- moved, leaves the duty of drawing up the skin and muscles entirely to the assistant. ( Velpeau, Nouv. Elcm. 8vo. t. i. p. .507.) The great ad- vantage of the other method seems to be, that the surgeon's left hand can be thus more conveniently ami quickly brought into use than if he wore always to stand on the same side ns the limb he is about to amputate. This seems to be the only assignable reason for this habit; for, when the left thigh is to be amputated, it is certainly some in- convenience to have the right limb between the operator and the one that is to be removed. But this is found less disadvantageous than not having the left hand next the wound. An assistant, firmly grasping the thigh with both hands, is to draw up the skin and muscles, while the surgeon, beginning with that part of the edge of the knife which is towards the handle, makes a circular incision, as quickly as possible, through the integuments down to the fascia, or, as Mr. Guthrie and Dr. Hennen recommend, even com- pletely through it. According to Mr. Guthrie, the skin cannot be sufficiently retracted, unless the fascia be divided, which he appears to think ought rather to be drawn up with the integuments than dissected from them. (On Gunshot Wounds, p. 204—208; also ffenyieus Military Surgery, p. 263.) In this way, the necessity for all painful detachment of the skin from the fascia is super- seded. However, in secondary amputations of the thigh, if the integuments are unsound, and can- not be retracted, Mr. Guthrie approves of their being dissected back. On the contrary, Langen- beck is very particular in enjoining surgeons to avoid cutting through the fascia by the first sweep of the knife, because he finds that the muscles are better held together, and can be more regularly divided, by cutting them and the fascia at the same time. (Bibl. filr die Chir. b. i. p. 564.) Nor does M. Roux divide the fascia by the first incision. {Mem. sur la Reunion inwiediate de la Plaie apres VAmputation circulaire, p. 9, 8vo. Paris, 1814.) In a thigh of ordinary dimensions, the first in- cision should be made four inches below where it is intended to saw the bone. Graefe, does not dissect the skin from the muscles at all in amputating the thigh, but takes care, after making the cutaneous incision, to have the integuments iind subjacent flesh very firmly drawn up before commencing the oblique division of the muscles. This retraction he also strongly advises to be done uniformly and smoothly all around the member, lest, in dividing the muscles, any irregular projection of the skin interfere with the requisite movements of the knife. [Normen fur die Abl. yrosserer Glicdmassen, p 103.) In common amputations of the thigh, Roux strongly disapproved of separating the skin far from the muscles, as a circumstance highly' unfa- vourable to the healing of the wound by adhesion. He divided only a few of the cellular bands be- tween the integuments and fascia ; and occasionally he has imitated M. Louis in cutting through the skin and superficial nmscles together. [Mem. sur la Reunion data Plaie apres fAmputation, c^x'. p. 9.) The practice of detaching the bone from the cir- ciinijacent flesh to the extent of about an inch, after the other principal incisions are completed, as .advised by C cisus and Louis, I have sometinios seen followed at Saint Bartholomew's Hospital, and have adopted it myself on other occasions, with the de- cided advantage of letting the bones be sawn higher up than could otherwise have been edectcd. Mr. Guthrie, after the incisions down to the bone, even recommends dissecting back the nmscles fnuu it "/or the space of two or three incites, as the size