266 ANUS. sat, who made the incision in the transverse instead of the vertical direction. For a further description of these operations, the reader is referred to the article on Intestinal Obstructions. The mortality which has attended their performance, in cases oi imperforate anus, is very great. It is stated by •Amussat, that of twenty-one children thus operated upon, only four ultimately recovered.] Aktificial Anus. Anus Anormale, Dupuytrcn; Intestinal Fistula, Teale ; Fcecal Fistula. — Artificial anus signifies an accidental opening in the parietes of the abdo- men, to which opening some part of the intestmal canal tends, and through which a variable quan- tity, or even the whole of the intestinal matter or of the feeces, is involuntarily discharged. [It may be the result of injury to some part of the intestinal canal, from penetrating wounds, mor- tification, or other causes ; or it may be produced intentionally by the surgeon for the purpose of sav inff life, in cases of otherwise irremediable obstruc tion. in the present article, the first class of cases only will be treated of; and the reader is referred to the article on Intestinal Obstructions for a description of the operation to form an artificial outlet for the fasces. Mr. Teale gives the name of Intestinal Fistula to those cases in which the pre- ternatural opening is the result of injury, and re stricts the term Artificial Anus to those in which it is really produced artificially by the surgeon. Others distinguish by the name of fcecal fistula those cases in which a small proportion only of the contents of the bowel makes its escape by the un- natural opening, and apply the term artificial a7i2ts to those in which the whole, or nearly the whole, of the intestinal matter is so discharged.] Of all the infirmities which assail the human race, none is more annoying and disgusting than an artificial anus; and, as a modern writer exclaims, what a wretched spectacle does a person exhibit, from whom the bilious alimentary matter and excrement are every instant involuntarily discharged ! In vain is the aid of pouches, reservoirs, and boxes, for the palliation of his dreadful affliction ; to him society is lost; and he is for ever doomed to live a solitary and miserable life. Such, at all events, was th sentence pronounced by science, until the genius ol Dupiiytren came to reform, and restore to the world the unfortunate individuals, who seemed to be lor ever banished from it. (Xeqons Oralcs cle Cltmque Chir. t. iii. p. 193.) , ^ , Excepting in those cases wliere the preternatural opening is purposely made by the surgeon, an artifi- cial anus is always preceded by an injury of the in- testinal canal, either bv a penetrating wound, or by ulceration of the bowel, and the bursting of an ab- scess externally ; or by an accidental wound of the gut in the operation for hernia ; or, lastly, and most commonly, by mortification of the bowel, th cff'ect of the long continuance of the strangulation of the part. Foreign bodies, swallowed by mistake, have sometimes irritated the bowel, and caused it to be come adherent to the peritoneum lining the parietes of the abdomen ; then ulcerative inflammation en- sued, followed by ftccal abscess, and a fistulous opening, or true artificial anus. In a few uncom- mon instances worms, of the lumbrici kind, have caused the samo consequences. All these cases are further divisible into such as are attended with a destruction of a portion of the intestinal tube ; and into those which are not ac- companied with any such loss of substance. When once an artificial anus has been formed, it is a solution of continuity produced in the bowel and parietes of the abdomen, which are completely adherent to one another. The opening, in what- ever way occasioned, is most commonly roundish, but sometimes of an irregular shape. Its diameter varies from a few lines to an inch or more. In the majority of persons, its edges are thick, de- pressed, adherent to the subjacent parts, inclined towards the abdominal cavitj', and immediately continuous with the mucous membrane of the bowel. A reddish circle denotes the place of their junction. The neighbouring integuments have radiating furrows in them, en cul de poide, ana- logous to what is observed near cicatrices in gene- ral ; and notwithstanding the most minute attention to cleanliness, the matter evacuated irritates the skin, bringing on an erysipelatous redness, or ex- coriations of variable depth. {Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 196.) Whatever may be the kind of injury which the bowel has sustained, one thing here invariably happens, viz. the adhesion of the two divided por- tions of the intestine to the edge of the opening in the parietes of the abdomen. This occurrence, . which has the most salutary effect in preventing extravasation of the contents of the bowel into the cavity of the abdomen, is produced by the inflam- mation which precedes gangrene and follows wounds. (See CEuvres C/iir. de Desault, t. ii. 352—354.) In hernia, the adhesions precede the destruction of the parts ; in wounds, they follow the division of the bowel ; and hence, m these last cases, the solution of continuity fre- quently brings on a fatal effusion. The adhesions never ascend far along the extremities of the bowel; which, being only contiguous, and covered by a smooth membrane, as in other parts of them, leave between them a sort of cul-de-sac, the entrance of which is towards the belly, while the apex is directed towards the skin. It is into this cul-de-sao that, in certain individuals, the abdominal viscera protrude, so as to occasion herniffi ; which push the artificial anus outwai'ds, compress, displace, and otherwise complicate it. (See Dupuytren, Climque Chir. t. ii. p. 198.) , . • . When, in strangulated hernia, the case is not relieved by the usual means, or when the neces- sary operation has not been practised in time, the protruded bowel sloughs ; the adjoining part of it adheres to the neck of the hernial sac ; and the gangrenous mischief spreads from within out- wards. If the patient live long enough, and an incision in the tumor be not now practised, one or more openings soon form in the integuments, and through tliese apertures the freces are dis- charged until the separation of tlie sloughs gives a freer vent to the excrement. But when an in- cision is made, the ft.ces are more >;cad.ly d. - charged ; and, as Mr. Travers >as related his sometimes the best mode of relief^ I'AZ dinary situation of hernia, the portions of intestine, embraced by the stricture, occupy a pos. ion nearly nanUlel Their contiguous sides mutually ad- loro in the remainder of their circumference thoy'adhere to the peritoneum J the stricture. The existing adhesion tigiious sides, strengthened by the adhesion of