GONORRHCEA to7-^ chordee ; another kind has been named spas- modic. ^ In the beginning of the inflammatory chordee, bleeding from the arm is often of service; but it IS more mimediately useful to take blood from the part Itself by leeches ; for we often iind that when a vessel gives way, and bleeds a good deal, the patient is greatly relieved. Exposing the penis to the steam of hot water frequently affords great re- lief. Poultices have also beneficial eifects; and both fomentations and poultices will often do most good when they contain camphor. Opium, given internallj^ is of singular service; and if it be joined with camphor the effect will be still greater. Plj-oscyamus will sometimes agree with the patient better than opium, or even than the acetate, or muriate of morphia ; and frequently opium has the best effect, when administered in the form of an enema. When the chordee continues after all inflamma- tion has terminated, no evacuations are required; for the consequences of the inflammation will gra- dually cease on the absorption of the extravasated coagulable Ij'mph. Mercurial ointment, rubbed on the part, will promote this event. When the common methods of cure are unavailing, hemlock is sometimes useful. Electricity is said to have • been of service. A chordee is often longer in going ofl:' than any other consequence of a gonor- rhoea, but, in the end, it disappears. For bringing about the removal of the extrava- sated lymph, camphorated mercurial ointment is better than the simple unguentum hydrargyri. According to Mr. Hunter, spasmodic chordee is be- nefited by bark. {On the Venereal Disease, ed. 2.) The recent leaves of belladonna, powdered and made into an ointment with an equal weight of lard, and rubbed over the penis, are stated to hinder priapism, and relieve chordee, more effectu- ally than any other application hitherto proposed. (J. A. Faris, in Pharmacologia, vol. ii. p. 110, ed. 5.) Bladder o/ec^ed.—Opiate clysters, the warm bath, and, if the patient is of full habit, bleeding, are proper. The excellent effects of the vinum colchici, as stated to me by Sir Benjamin Brodie, I have already noticed. Leeches may be applied to the perinseum. When this affection lasts a considerable time, and is not mitigated by common methods, Mr. Hunter advises trying an opiate plaster on the pubos or the loins, where the nerves of the bladder originate; or a small blister on the perina;um. A belladonna plaster would probably act more powerfully than one of opium. In an- other place, he mentions bark, hemlock, sea-air, and sea-bathing, among the proper means. Studied Testicle. See Testicle, Diseases op. Retention of Urine. See Urine, Retention of. GONORRHCKA IN WOJIEN. Gonorrhoea in women is a much less painful complaint than in men, and less subject to com- plications, as bubo, retention of urine, &c. The complaint may not generally prevent the patient trom following her usual occupations, and the raenBes arc as little affected by it as it is by them. llie disease is not bo easily ascertained in women as in men, because the former are subject reaemW " ' '^'^'^'^'^^ ft'""'alhus, or hucorrha^a, which resembles gonorrhoea. A mere discharge in wo- men, is less a proof of the existence of a gonorrho-1 than even a discharge without pain in men. The kind of matter does not enable us to distinguish i gonoiyhoea from a fluor albus ; for, in the latter affection, the discharge often puts on all the an pearance of pus. Pain is not necessarily present and therefore forms no line of distinction. The appearance of the parts often gives us but little information ; " for," says Mr. Hunter, " I have frequently examined the p;irts of those who con- fessed all the sjmiptoms, such as increase of dis- cliarge, pain m making water, soreness in walking or when the parts were touched, yet I could see no difi^rence between these and sound parts. I know of no other way of judging, in cases where there are no symptoms sensible to the person her- self, or where the patient has a mind to deny any nncommon symptoms, but from the circumstances preceding the discharge ; such as her having been connected with men supposed to be unsound, or her being able to give the disorder to others ; which last circumstance, being derived from the testimony of another person, is not always to be trusted to, for obvious reasons." But, though there may sometimes be great difficulty in forming a judgment of some of these cases, the surgeon may frequently come to a right conclusion by recollecting, as Mr. Dunn has reminded me, that, besides the difterence depending on the suddenly severe symptoms of gonorrhoea, fluor albus may bo known by the great debility ; the sinking of the stomach ; the weariness of the limbs ; the pain of the back, always increased by the erect pos- ture ; the severe headaches; the painful men- struation, together with the very gradual increase of the disease. From the manner in which the disease is con- tracted, it must principally attack the vagina, a • part not endowed with much sensibility. In many cases, however, it produces a considerable soreness on the inside of the labia, nymphse, clitoris, ca- runculee myrtiformes, and meatus urinarius. In certain cases, these parts are so sore that they will not bear to be touched; the person can hardly walk; the urine gives pain in its passage through the urethra, and when it comes into contact with the above-mentioned parts. The bladder, and even the kidneys, occasionally sympathise. The mucous glands on the inside of the' labia often swell, and sometimes suppurate, forming small abscesses, which open near the orifice of the v.igina. According to Mr. Hunter, the venereal matter from the vagina sometimes runs down the peri- naium to the anus, and produces a purulent dis- charge, or even ulceration, in that situation. The disease in women may wear itself out, as in men ; but it may exist in the vagina for years, if the testimoii)'- of patients can be relied on. [E,\iernal or Vulvar Gonorrhcea.—Gonorrhcea in the female may affect specially the external parts or surfaces, including all the striictures exterior to the carunculre myrtiformes, namel.v, the labia, the nymphffi, the clitoris, the prcputiiim, the vestibulum, and the fossa liavicularis. This form of the disease is usually termed vulvar gonor- rhoea. It resembles in many respects iiliat li.is been called external gonorrhoea in the male, affect- ing similar mucous surfaces of the glans penis and prepuce {halano-posthitis), and is equally amenable to treatment by simple local applications,