HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. 879 using the greatest precaution in the treatment of all cases of contusions of the skull cannot be too strongly insisted on, and our prognosis should be always guarded. Mr. Hewett has also alluded in his lectures to a remarkable case of hypertrophy of the cranial bones ns a consequence of a severe contusion : the case is here quoted in his own words. "A master- builder, set. 50, slipped from a scaffold from fifteen to twenty feet high and struck his head violently, receiving a severe concussion of the brain. All symptoms of cerebral mischief disappeared in a few days ; but, some time after his recovery, this man found that he began to have some difficulty in getting on the hat he had been in the habit of wearing : the enlargement of his skull went on increasing, so much so, that he was obliged to have a new hat made ; and from this period, from time to time, he found it necessary to have the size of his hats increased. The enlargement of his skull went on increasing. ' He suffered no inconvenience beyond the increased size of his head, and died at the age of 70, twenty years after the accident. His head was examined, when it was found that the great size of the head was altogether due to a diseased condition of the bones, which was all but limited to the vault, the base presenting very little alteration in its appearance." (Loc. cit.) The diseased calvarium is preserved in the Mu- seum of the College of Surgeons. In some parts the bones are nearly an inch, and are in no part less than half an inch in thickness. The circumference on the outside from the nasal eminence to the occi- pital protuberance measures 26 inches ; that on the inside 21. All traces of the compact table of the bones have disappeared, the whole structure being reduced to a fine cancellous tissue, with cells for the most part very small, and irregular in form. The outer surface is perfectly porous, as if pricked with small pin points. The inner surface is per- meated by large deep channels for the meningeal arteries. The brain and its membranes were per- fectly healthy. After exfoliation of portions of the bones of the skull, and after the removal of bone by the trephine, the interval is filled up by a tough liga- mentous subst.ince, in which minute bony spicula here and there appear, or by a thin layer of bony matter. There is no doubt that in some cases a complete closure of the opening occurs by bony matter graduallj' pushed forwards from the edge of the sound bone. This subject has been fully illus- trated in a paper by Mr. Russell. {Edin. Medico- Chirurg. Trans.) But in all cases of extensive exfo- liation it is desirable that the patient should wear some artificial protection over the skull. Suppuration of the Dura Mater. — Serious in- flammation of the brain and its membranes arises often during the progress of exfoliation. This depends on the extent of injury the parts impli- cated have sustained at the time of the accident; or it is traceable in trifling cases of injury to a disordered state of constitution resulting from irregularities in diet, &c. In hospital practice such cases are by no means rare. The dura mater, when both tables of the skull are dead, is one of the most important agents in the detachment of the dead bonp, and it partakes of the general salutary actions which are essential to this object; but, under the circumstances just mentioned, it often becomes the seat of disease, and symptoms set in of a character which no experi- enced surgeon can mistake, and which are the harbingers of fatal inflammation of the membranes of the brain. These attacks are often so insidious in their ap- proach that they are scarcely recognised; but care- ful attention to the progress of a case of this nature will not fail to detect some indisposition in the patient,—as a slight shivering, followed by a febrile attack, or some other symptom of general irritation,— enough to justify a suspicion that the membranes of the brain are the seat of incipient inflammation. It is, however, remarkable, that most extensive disease of the brain may exist, and that an abscess may occupy an entire hemisphere, without causing in its progress symptoms sufficient to justify a suspicion of its existence. The writer has lately had under his care a case of fatal cerebral abscess occurring during exfo- liation of a portion of dead bone, in which the only unfavourable symptom was an occasional attack of somnolency, which disappeared for a time, and left no trace behind. But the recur- rence of these attacks, at irregular intervals, led to some suspicion that mischief was lurking within the cranium. This case will be further consi- dered after the symptoms and pathology of suppuration of the membranes of the brain have been described, as it illustrates a point of much practical importance. The following is the ordinary history of menin- geal inflammation. A patient, in whom a portion of dead bone is exfoliating, after exposure to a blast of cold air, or from some irregularity in diet, whilst apparently progressing favourably, is sud- denly seized with a severe rigor, succeeded by fever accompanied with extreme restlessness and general indisposition. Vomiting of bilious matter frequently also occurs at the beginning of the at- tack, and the skin, which is hot and dry, assumes a dark yellow hue. The eyes are intolerant of light, the pupils contracted, and the conjunctiva of the affected side is infiltrated with serum. The rigors and bilious vomiting frequently reappear without any regularity. There is great pain in the head, with a low muttering delirium. This is accompanied by hemiplegia and dilated pupil, and is succeeded by coma and death. If the wound is examined at any period after the commencement of the attack, the discharge, which was before healthy, will be found to have suddenly altered its character, and to have diminished in quantity; and, instead of presenting a healthy purulent as- pect, it has assumed the appearance of what is com- monly termed sanies; and the granulations, before florid and luxuriant, now become at first glassy, and then gradually disappear, and the bone puts on a pale yellow, or a blackish aspect. If the dead bone is raised by operation, the membrane beneath is found either in a sloughy condition, or coated with an unhealthy pus, which is sometimes con- tained in a circumscribed cavity, limited in extent to the size of the dead bone, but more frequently diffused over the surface of the dura mater; and the arachnoid cavity is also the seat of an unheiilthy purulent secretion, either limited by a barrier of lymph, or extending over a large portion of its surface,] Pott has given an .admirable account of this for- midable affection in injuries of^the_head. He observes,