DISLOCATION. 518 joints, has also been provident enoiigli to vary the structure of these parts, according to the use of the different portions of their economy. To great mobility some uuite considerable solidity; for in- instance, the vertebral column. Others are very strong, but only admit of a slight yielding motion, as we observe in the carpus, tarsus, &c. Lastly, other joints admit of a great latitude of motion; but their strength is easil}' overpowered by the action of external bodies. In man, such is the shoulder-joint. Of all the very moveable articulations, not one is so often luxated as the shoulder-joint. Bichat found that this accident, at the Hotel-Dieu, was as frequent, and even more so, than dislocations of all the other bones taken collectively. Here every thing seems to facilitate the escape of the bone from its natural cavity. An oval shallow cavit}', surrounded by a margin of little thickness, receives a hemispherical head, which is twice as broad as the cavity in the perpendicular direction, and three times as extensive from before backward. With respect to the ligaments, the joint is only strengthened by a mere capsule, which is thin below, where nothing opposes a dis- location ; but thicker above, where the acromion, coracoid process, and triangular ligament, form an almost insurmountable obstacle to such an acci- dent. With regard to the muscles and motions of this joint, strong and numerous fasciculi sur- round the articular surfaces; make them easily move in all directions; and, pushing the head of the humerus against the different points of the capsule, distend this fibrous sac; and, when their power exceeds the resistance, actually lacerate it. As for external bodies, what bone is more exposed than the os brachii to the effect of their force ? Thus subjected to the influence of these predis- posing causes, the humerus would be in continual danger of being dislocated, if the scapula, which is as moveable as itself, did not furnish a point of support for it, by accompanying it in all its motions. This point of support accommodates itself to the variations in the position of the head of the os humeri, so that to the mobility of the articular surfaces, the strength of the joint is in a great measure owing. The shoulder-joint, which is very liable to lux- ations in a general sense, is not equally so at all points. The head of the humerus cannot be dis- placed upwards. Here are situated the acromion and coracoid process, the triangular ligament stretched between them, the -tendons of the biceps^ supraspinatus, and the fleshy portion of the del- toid; insurmountable obstacles to the luxation of the head of the bone upwards. Supposing there were a force calculated to produce such an effect, the head of the bone must necessarily be driven outward as well as upward, ere its head could be displaced. This seemed to Desault impossible, because the trunk prevents the lower part of the arm from being directed sufficiently inward to produce this effect. However, many cases of this dislocation are now upon record; and one, to whicli, I shall presently advert, was caused by a direct blow on the forepart of the shoulder; a cause, which seems not to have been contemplated. On the contrary, at the other margins of the glenoid cavity, there is little resistance. At the inferior one, the long portion of the triceps; at the internal one, the tendon of the subscapularis; and at the external edge, those of the infra-spinatus, t and teres minor, will allow primitive luxations to take place, downward, inward, or outward. Down- ward, between the tendon of the long portion of the triceps and the tendon of the subscapularis, which last, in a case dissected by Sir A. Cooper, was ruptured {Surg. L'ssai/s, part. i. p. 7, and On Dislocations, p. 421) inward, between the fossa subscapularis, and muscle of this name ; ; outward, between the fossa infra-spinata, and infra- spinatus muscle. II According to Sir Astley Cooper, the os humeri [ is liable to be thrown from the glenoid cavity of I the scapula in four directions: three of these lux- ations are complete; the other is only parti;.!. The first is doiviiwards and inwards, the dislocatioi into the axilla, as it is usually called, in which cas the head of the bone rests upon the inner side " the inferior costa of the scapula. The second i forwards, under the pectoral muscle, the head i the bone being placed below the middle of tli clavicle, and on the sternal side of the coracoi process. The third is the dislocation hachwaro'-- in which the head of the bone can be plainly fe and seen, as a protuberance at the back and outer t part of the inferior costa of the scapula, upon the ■ dorsum of this bone. The fourth, which is only ■ partial, is when the front of the capsular ligament is torn, and the head of the bone rests against the ; outer side of the coracoid process. "Ofthedis-- location in the axilla (says Sir Astley Cooper) I' have seen a multitude of instances; of that for- wards, on the inner side of the coracoid process, several; although it is much less frequent than that in the axilla: of the dislocation backwards, I have seen only two instances during the practice • of my profession for 38 years." {On Dislocations,. 4-c. p. 416.) [Sir A. Cooper's description and classification off the dislocations of the shoulder-jointTs still very • generally followed in this country. Some of the ■ French surgeons, however, among whom may be ■ mentioned Velpeau, Nfilaton, and Malgaigne, have introduced further subdivisions. M. Malgaigne,. whose work is the most recent, proposes the fol- ■ lowing classification!— 1. Dislocations into the axilla. a. Complete sub-coracoid, tolerably common. b. Incomplete sub-coracoid, rare. c. Sub-glenoid, rare. 2. Dislocations inwards. d. Intra-coracoid, the most common of all. e. Sub-clavicular, rare. 3. Dislocations backwards. f. Sub-acromial, rare. g. Sub-spinous, very rare. 4. Dislocation, upwards. h. Supra-corncoid, two examples. In the " subglenoid" variety, the head of the bone passes almost directly downwards, and rests- against the axillary border of tlie scapula, immedi- ■ diately under the glenoid cavity; in the " com- plete subcoracoid" dislocation, it passes downwards ; and somewhat inw.ards, under the coracoid process, whicli process is placed over the centre of the head of the bone ; in the "intra-coracoid" dislocation, it passes rather more inwards, but is still benoalli the coracoid process, the only difference being that in this case two-tliirds or three-fourths of the head of the bono project on tlie inner side of the process. .