1048 and hvaa-a, lygsa, fury. [The French call it la rage. The Germans call the disease in the dog Hmids- wuth or Tollmuth, and in man, Wimersoheu. The Italians name it mbia. The first mention of rabies is made by Aris- totle {Hist. Animal, lib. vii. cap. 22), Avho held, nowever, the erroneous opinion that man is incapable of being infected by the bite of a mad dog. Xenophon seemed to share the same opinion. {Anabasis, v. 7, 26".) Asclepiades first taught that man can sufl\;r from the bite of a rabid dog, and pointed out the symptom of the horror of water, "which is peculiar to man. Probably the long time which intervenes between the injury and the de- velopment of the disease had prevented the earlier observers from attributing the disease to its true origin. Pliny also speaks of tiie iiital result of the bite of a rabid dog in producing hydropho- bia. (Hist. Natur. viii. 63.) The opinions of Asclepiades, long in disrepute, were revived by Coelius Atirelianus, who very clearly described the inability to drink, and convulsive symptoms, adding those of barking, and attempting to bite. These opinions prevailed throughout the middle ages, and since it was held that the bite, or even the contact of the saliva of the unhappy patient ex- cited the disease in others, it became customary to put an end to the existence of those so aifected. It was not until the eighteenth century that nosologists beg m to classify the disease. Sauvages placing it among " perverted appetites." (1769.) Linnaeus dividing it into twndiseases, rabies and hydrophobia. (1763.) Vogel classing it as a fever. (1764.) Sagar as a nervous disorder. 0776.) CuUen ranking it with hysteria, among convulsive diseases of the nervous system, and subdividing it according to the presence or absence of the pre- tended symptom of biting.] Concerning the antiquity of hydrophobia, how- ever, particularly reference may be made to Dr. Hecker's observations, who thinks the fact clearly proved that the disease existed at least 400 years before Christ, and even in the most remote periods. (See Journ. fur Chir. von C. F. Grae/e, ^c. vii. p. 325, &c.) [It was an error formerly to confound under one title, and to consider as one disease, rabies in the dog, and hydrophobia in the man. Modern re- searches make it clear that the symptoms and course of the two diseases essentially diiTer: the fear of water being constantly absent in the dog, but essentially characterising the disease in man. It is the prevalent and probably the correct opinion, snice all the collected facts favour that opinion, that hydrophobia in the human species can only follow the bite of a rabid dog. However, this dis- ease, and especially the symptom from which it takes its name, may be simulated by nervous dis- orders arising from various causes, hence the con- sideration of cases recorded under the title of hydrophobia may conveniently be divided into two classes:—] 1. The first comprising all cases not ascribable to the bite of a rabid animal, or the application of some of its secretions to a part of the body. 2. The second comprehending the examples pre- ceded by one of those occurrences. The cases included in the first of these divisions are subdivided into the symptomatic, and idiopathic or spontaneous. By symptomatic hydrophobia is understood an aversion or dread of liquids preseut- HYDROPHOBIA. ing itself as an occasional Bymptom of various diseases, as of certain inflammatory febrile and nervous disorders, hysteria, epilepsy, injuries of the brain (Trecourt in liecueil periodique, ^c. t. vi.; Acta NaluicB curiosa, vol. ii. Obs, 205)j the operation of particular poisons {Villermay, Traiti des Mai. Nerveusfs, t. i. p. 90 ; Harles, ii/ier die Hundsicuili, Frank/. ] 809 ; Schiniedel, Diss, de Hydrophobia ex Lhu Frticluum Fagi, Erlan. 1762, 6fc.), gastritis, pneumonia, liepatitis, angina, &c. &c. In many of the instances of symptomatic hydrophobia, the aversion or dread o£ fluids occurs on the same day as the cause upon which it depends, or a few days afterwards, and for the most part may be cured with the disease which has given rise to it, or even imlependeiitly of it. On the contrary, the hydrophobia from the bite or infection of a rabid animal does not come on till a long time after the occurrence of the cause, and when once formed, hag hitherto proved incur- able. Whatever analogy therefore, may be imagined to exist between symptomatic hydrophobia and rabies, they differ essentially in their causes, pro- gress, degree of curability, and also in the treatment required. (See Diet, des Sciences Mid. t. iv. p. 38.) Spontaneous, or idiopathic hydrophobia denote* the questionable form of the complaint, sometimes supposed to be induced by violent mental commo- tion, anger, fright, &c. unpreceded by any other primary disease, to which it can be referred as a symptom. Numerous facts upon record appear to leave no doubt concerning tlie reality of .symptomatic hydro- phobia. {Raymond, Mem de la Sue. Royalede Med. t. ii. p. 4.57; Roupe, Nova Acta Physico.-Med. t. iv.; or Pouteau, Essai sur la Rage,Lyons, 17C3; Diet, des Sciences Medicales, ^c. xxii. p. 333; Land. Med. Journal, vol. ix. p. 256.) [But in all the cases thus adduced among the earlier writers it is easy to see that the previous history has not been clearly elucidated, and that in all cases there is a high probability of a previous and forgotten bite; sometimes the very occupation and habits of the patients suggest this.] The best authorities now concur, witli Dr. J. Hunter, that a disease, similar in its nature to what is produced by the bite of a mad dog, never arises spontaneously in the human subject. (See Trans, of a Sue. for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knoidcdge, vol. i. p. 299—303.) Many of these symptomatic cases, however, or those in which more or less aversion, or dread of liquids, is evinced as an eftect of another disease, are too well authenticated to admit of doubt. In tlie Did. des Sciences Med. t. xxii. art. Hydrophobic, may be found a great deal of information, likely to interest such readers as wish to follow up the subject of the symptomatic forms of the disease. However, in looking over some of the cases there detailed, a suspicion will now and tiien arise, in an intelligent mind, that the disorder was mistaken; for it will be noticed that sometimes pain shooting up the limbs preceded the general indisposition, while the rapidity of the disease and the appearances found on dissection corresponded precisely to what is usually remarked in hydro- phobia. In particular, one patient is described as a man habituated to drinking, and, as a sportsman, to dogs also : he died on the third day, and on dis- section, the stomach and intestines were found in- flamed, and even gangrenous in several places, the