Fiactical Sufgei-y, by Mr. T. P. Teale, headed In- I Ust'mal Fistula, this statement is fully corroborated. Mr. Teale gives a table exhibitiiig eleven cases taken indiscriminately, in which the feculent dis charge following gangrenous hernia spontaneously ceased. In eight of these cases, the time when the cessation occurred is specified, and is found to vary from tiiirteen to seventy days ; or on the average to be thirty-nine days. The quantity of intestine destroyed is not in all the cases noted; but in some of them the gangrene must have im plicated a few inches of the tube ; and in an in- stance related by Scarpa, a long loop of intestine was lost. (Ci/clop. nf Fi-aci. Surg. vol. ii. p. 104.) Mr. Teale gives further tables, showing thirteen cases of penetrating wounds of the abdomen, at- tended by fajcal discharge, only two of which were followed by permanent intestinal fistula; the remaining eleven closed spontaneously ^ also ten cases of gun-shot injury of the intestine, in eight of which a perfect cure took place without interfe- rence. The remaining two were followed by per- manent fistula;, but in each of these the loss of substance was considerable, and in consequence of the absence of the membranous funnel, formed by the sac in cases of mortified hernia and the re- traction of the divided extremities of the intestine which this structure has been shown to promote, the natural powers of nature were inadequate to restore the continuity of the canal. Both these cases, however, were cured by the introduction of linen tents, after the manner of Desault, which will be next referred to.] According to Desault, the most frequent im- pediment to the restoration of the natural course of the intestinal contents, is the angle formed by the two portions of the intestine ; and, says he, it must be enlarged, and rendered less acute, in order that the faeces may continue their route. This desirable change he recommends to be effected by introducing long dossils of charpie into the two ends of the bowel, and Gradually altering their direction so as to bring it into a straight Ime. When the dilatation is sufficient, and the inner angle, or ridge, is effaced, the long dossils need not be continued. The linen tent, with the precaution of not introducing it too deeply, lest It obstruct the course of the faces, will 'then fiiiflice. When this plan is skilfully managed Jiesault says, there will be a great chance of its succeeding, and its beneficial effect will be denoted i>y a rumbling in the bowels, and frequently by slight colics. At first, wind is discharged from the rectum, and, soon afterwards, the fteces begin to come away. On the contrary, if they should not pass with facility, the colic be violent, and "1 accumulation happen in the upper portion 't the intestinal canal, the tent must be witli- Irawn, and any other cause of obstruction be con- "uered, and, if possible, removed. (Vol. cit. 365, &c.) [By this method Desault succeeded perfectly n a very unpromising case, which has been 'Iready alluded to, acconipaiiiod by a prolapsus line inches in length, although no fiuces had lassed per anum for more than four years. After "IT days he succeeded in returning the pro- ^Psus ; the linen tent was then introduced, and " a few hoiiis fluid ftecal matter passed by he rectum. The evacuations were very numerous Hiring the night and for the three following davs • ANUS. -273 but they'gradually became thicker and diminished 111 number. The linen tent was discontinued on the eighth day, and the opening was closed by lint and compresses supported by a truss with a broad and flat pad. This plan entirely prevented the escape of fajcal matter by the wound. The fistulous opening remained, but a very trivial serous exudation could scarcely be said to stain a small piece of lint placed upon it. {CEuvr. Chir. torn. ii. p. 370, and Parisian Journ. vol. i. p. 178, also quoted at length by Lawrence, 5th ed. p. 390. For a somewhat similar case from Scarpa, see also Lawrence, p. 422).J From a calculation made by Dupuytren, it ap- pears that artificial ani, capable of spontaneous cure, or of one produced by the means already specified, are, in comparison with the examples which obstinately resist such treatment, as three to one. (See Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 223, 229.) It was for these latter, cases that Dupuytren devised a method of cure which reflected upon him the hiohest credit, and which I shall now proceed to describe. In the preceding columns, I have given a full explanation of the impediment made to the paisa-e of the fasces into the lower orifice of the intestinal canal, by the projecting septum, or ridge between the two parts of the bowel, and the matter haviuff sometimes to traverse the funnel-shaped mem- branous cavity in quite- a semicircular track A representation of this septum may be seen in Scarpa s work tab. 9, fig. 1; and in the sixth plate of Mr. Travers's Inquiry. (See also Bour- gery Med. Op6r. torn. ii. pi. 33.) lu one ex- amp e m which this septum was plainly visible m the wound, Dupuytren introduced into the orihce of the upper part of the bowel a curved needle; and, passing it through the projectinff septum brought it out again through the orifice of the lower portion of the gut. Thus, he in- cluded a considerable part of the septum in a ligature which was daily made tighter, with a view ot fi,.st exciting inflammation in the two Layers of this septum, and thus ensurins their adhesion together ; and his next plan consfsted in making a division through the part embraced hv the ligature, whereby the passage for the freces into the lower portion of the bowel was made quite free. But, as the section made by the ligature was too superficial, Dupuytren completed the division of the septum with a knife ; but ne- ritonitis and the death of the patient ensued According to Dr. Breschet, the ligtUure also' proved niefi'ectual ; because its operation was so slow, that adhesions and cicatrisation took n|-,ce behind It as fast as it made its way throu-h rest of the septum Hence, the expectation that he (ffices would sufficiently pass through the aper ture made by the ligature was not realised • -Zi m one case quoted bv Brp<tch.^t iV,„, i ' amendment mowed tL o^ll;:;, ^71.^: was ar from being accomplished, as only sonie .i" e leces passed out of the natural aims, Zl f, he remaining and greater part of them sti 1 en « p. (300 ; also Clinifiuo Chir. t. ii. n 2V^ \ t niiothercaso Dupuytren tried to render the layers of the septum adherent by compressing them b^ ^veen the blades of a pai,: of forceps ,ff 4,1^ eoii^> ruction; and afterwards he effecled th d , cans -'"invssion ; means of n screw traversing the handles of the