802 CANCER maximum of the disease occurs in Europe. It is, however, by no means ascertained whether the diminished prevalence of cancer is to be ascribed to modes of life or to the influence of climate. " Wherever the disease is particularly rare, it may be remarked that a low state of civilisation pre- vails; wherever social organisation is of a highly perfect kind, there cancer flourishes." As regards the comparative influence of a rural or whan life in inducing cancer, the result of statistical inqui- ries is opposed to a priori anticipation. Dr. Walshe, from examination of the registrations for a series of years, concludes that a town life is far from exercising any serious influence on the pro- duction of cancer. It would appear, however, that a greater proportion of males perish from cancer in the country than in towns, while in the case of females the proportion is reversed. It does not appear that temperament is materially concerned in the causation of cancer. Yet Sabatier, Lever, and Tanchou are supported by Dr. Walshe in the opinion that mammary and uterine cancer are more irequent in women of high colour and sanguineous temperament than in others. It is a valuable re- mai-k which Mr. Paget makes, that the liability of a part to be affected by cancer depends not so much upon any peculiaritj' of texture or tissue in it as upon its mere locality. Thus, medullary cancer " may occupy from the first many tissues both within and around the eyeball," and after all, of a mammary gland has been removed the growth recurs still in the same site. This indicates that morbid growths have their loci determined by special laws, something like those which govern the original development of the various organs. Mr. Paget's experience is opposed to the view that other tumors in course of growth may become can- cerous. With regard to ovarian cysts, however, he allows that they may become, after they have existed simply as such for a time, the seat of can- cerous formation, but in other tumors he believes this to be an event though possible, yet "of the greatest rarity." ous growth, and convey it back to the veins, just aa they do the residuary fluid of normal assimila- tion. In its transit, it has to pass through masses of niiclcar substance, the so-called lymphatic glands, and is apt to impai't to these nuclei its own evil properties, and set them vegetating and growing in a cancerous manner. The reason why the glands for a time remain unaffected, though traversed by the diseased fluid, is, I suppose, that as long as their native power retains a certain degree of vigour they are able to resist the influence of the cancerous fluid, and compel it to behave nearly as normal lymph would do. When, however, the cancerous diathesis increases in strength, and the normal forces of the system fail, then the glands yield to the overmastering influence. Cancerous growths appear, in some instances, in the vicinity of a primary growth. Mr. Paget terms this " irradiatmi," and says they spring up in an area which gradually widens, and of which the primary cancer is the centre. Thus, tubercles may form in the skin and muscles near a scirrhous breast, and I have seen small islets of cancer in the mucous membrane adjoining a mass of pyloric dis- ease; The following passage from Mr. Paget's work, vol. ii. p. 580, contains the same opinion as I advanced in the Manual of Palhol. indepen- dently : — " We need not assume that corpuscles of pus or cancer, or any kind of germs already formed, must be thus carried for the multiplication or dissemination of disease. A rudimental liquid, an unformed cancerous blastema, mingled with the blood, may be as effectual as any germs, and must almost necessarily be assumed in the explanation of cases in which the dissemination takes place, not in the lungs or liver (the common sites), but in organs beyond them, in the course of the circu- lation." Diagnosis of Cancer. ^■^ Dissemination of Canceu. This may take place in three ways. First, by immediate contact. The opposite serous surface to some viscus in which a cancerous growth exists, may become similarly diseased at the point of contact; or the raucous surface over which can- cerous discharge passes towards the outlet, may come to present patches of the disease along its cxten t. Secondly, if a cancerous growth penetrates in any part the veins, either growing into a large trunk, or opening some small radicle at its origin, the particles which may become detached, and carried along in the blood, will give rise to secon- dary formations at any part where they may be arrested, usually in the next capillary plexus. From hence again fresh particles may be carried on and give rise to tertiar}' formations. It is clear that if the cancer germs reached the left side of the heart, as they would from masses contained in the lungs, they would be dispersed all over the body, and might thus cause an abundant develop- ment of cancer growtiis in most various parts. Ihis mode of dissemination may be distinguished as that effected tkronyh the circulation. riiirUly, through the lymplMlic channels. These vessels take up the fluid which saturates a caucer- In cancer, as in all other diseases, there are two classes of phenomena to be regarded with a view to diagnosis. One of these is the physical pecu- liarities, the other the vital actions. I will con- sider each of these briefly. To describe the former, would be to enumerate again the charac- ters of the several species alread}' noticed, both those apparent to the eye and the microscopical. The latter consist in a tendency to recur after re- moval, to repetition of the growth in the lymphatic glands, and to dissemination in other parts of the body, as also in a gi'eat proneness of the mass to decay by sloughing or ulceration even while grow- ing rapidly, and to affect the general systom with a peculiar cachexia. To these may be added a special power of infiltrating all tissues of every kind which it approaches, and causing their dis- appearance by substitution of its own substance. These vital actions arc for more strongly declara- tive of the existence of cancer than the physical peculiarities. One would be fully justified in affirming the e-xistence of cancer in any case where the majority of these were decidedly apparent, whatever might be shown by observation of the former. In proportion as less and less trace of the vital actions are discernible, in the same degree would the cancerous character be eftaced or dim- inished. For the most part the physical peculiarities accord well with the dynamic manifestations, but not invariably. With regard to the common re- quest that the microscope may be used for deter-