JANGRENR. 1015 HOSPITAL I 3 T 4 applications of the acid, a great portion of tlie sore was quite clean, but that slougiiing continued to go on at detached parts, principally at the lower edge, till the CTth. During this time the acid was ap- plied to the sloughing portions, and lint, dipped in cold water, to the remaining surface. The inflam- matory diathesis continued to prevail, and besides the forty ounces of blood abstracted on the 6th and 8th, the following bleedings were performed:— 9th, sixteen ounces; 11th, sixteen ounces; 14th, twelve ounces; 17th, twelve ounces; 19th, twelve ounces; 2]Bt, sixteen ounces; 26th, twelve ounces; making a total of 136 dunces. So strongly was I impressed with the necessity for continuing the blood-letting, that I bled the patient myself the two last bleedings, from the jugular, the state of the arms not admitting of further venesection. In addition to the bleedings, large quantities of calo- mel and extract of colocynth, and the neutral salts, were given, and injections frequently administered. To alleviate the excessive pain, large opiates were prescribed. During the whole time the morbid process was going on, he absohitely ate nothing; but diluents, particularly acid drinks, were liberally allowed. Notwithstanding these profuse evacua- tions he coi.iinued remarkably strong, and the blood was butted with a large portion of coagulum to the last. "The sore is now healing; at times pale and unhealthy granulations show themselves at dif- ferent points, which are always corrected by the application of tincture of myrrh. His health is at present good, but it has suffered somewhat from a late severe attack of diarrhoea. It should have been observed that the extent of the sore on the 27th, by measurement, was twenty-two inches in circumference, the trochanter major forming the centre. This man ultimately recovered." Our accounts of the disease have hitherto been drawn from European warfare; now let us take a view of it as it occurred in India, in the Sikh cam- paign. Mr. Taylor, Surgeon of the 29th Regiment, thus writes to Mr. Guthrie :— " In the treatment of this disease I proceeded," says Mr. Taylor, "regularly on one plan, and found that so efficacious that I was not inclined to try any other. The plan adopted was the application of the strong nitric acid, so as completely to cut off the diseased from the sound part, or so far sound part as only to be alTected with inflammation. The acid, however, required to be rubbed in with the blunt end of tlie probe, so that it not only destroyed the cuticlsi but killed the cutis vera, and probably the cellular jhembrane undemcath. The narrow yellow ring of dfed skin thus formed, separated like a piece of leather, generally carrying with it the whole alougli, and leaving a clean, healthy surface, as well as edges, to the wound. J never attempted to apply the acid to the surface underneath the slough, neither is such application necessary ; the vital seat of the disease is on its circumference, however large its area. I must admit, that the disease sometimes crossed the acid boundar}', and a second, and even a third application of the remedy was required, but this was rare. Neither was constitutional treatment neglected, but this varied according to the state of the patient; emetics, purgatives, saline medicines, and low diet being sometimes required; whilst in other instances, ether, ammonia, liiudamira, and generous diet were administwed. " When speaking of the Bymptoms of this disease, I should have mentioned that a burning, gnawing sensation was sometimes loudly com- plained of. The application of the acid soon removed that pain, and the acid itself did not often seem to produce much suflering. In one instance, deemed a favourable one, I tried venesection, and I fear did mischief. Calomel and antimonials were useful. I did not try the arsenical solution. The change of air, which the march of the wounded on their return to Kussowlee occasioned, certainly had very beneficial effects on all the gan- grenous and sloughing sores. " At the same time that hospital gangrene was prevalent at Ferozepore, some wounds took on a malignant fungous affection, which spread over the healthy surface like the hospital gangrene. The dirty fibrous-looking fungous growth rose considerably above the edges of the wound, par- tially overlapping them; these edges were inflamed, but not livid and vesicated, as in the cases of gan- grene ; but here, also, the disease took the circular or oval form. The affection here noticed I ob- served only in wounds of the forearm and hand; Colonel Barr's wound, which was of the forearm near the wrist, took on this disease. The applica- tion of nitric acid in the same way as for hospital gangrene eventually checked its progress; one finger of a private thus affected I was obliged to remove. Colonel Barr's wound was a compound comminuted fracture of the radius from grape-shot, which penetrated but did not lodge. He was an exceedingly large, stout, fat man, and known to be of a bad habit of body ; he had been twenty years in India. His death was occasioned by a sudden haemorrhage from the radial artery, from the efi'ects of which he never rallied. " In no case that came under my observation did the gangrene directly prove fatal, though in many cases it contributed largely in bringing about an unfavourable termination." Conclusions. The following aphorisms are given by Mr Guthrie, as his "conclusions" on the whole subject. " First.—Hospital gangrene never occurs in iso- lated cases of wounds. " Second.—It originates only in badly-ventilated hospitals crowded with wounded men, among and around whom cleanliness has not been too well observed, " Third.—It is a morbid poison, remarkably con- tagious, and is infectious through the medium of the atmosphere applied to the wound or ulcer. " Fourth.—It is possibly infectious, acting con- stitution,all3', and producing great derangement of the system at large, although it has not been satis- fj^ctorily proved that the constitutional affection is capable of giving rise to local disease, such as an ulcer; but if an ulcer should occur from accidental or constitutional causes, it is always influenced by it when in its concentrated form. " Fifth.—The application of the contagious matter gives rise to a similar local disease, resembling and capable of propagating itself, and is generally yb?- lowr.d by constitutional symptoms. Sixth.—In crowded hospitals the constitutional symptoms have been sometimes observed to pre- "cede, and frequently to accompany, the appearance of the local disease.