HEAD, INJURIES OP THE. 875 careful treatment would probably have again ad- hered to the surface of the calvarium. We cannot doubt that such barbarous surgery is now wholly exploded. There is no part of the body which adheres so readily to the subjacent parts as the scalp, and there are few parts which have so slight a tendency to slough after contusions, a condition evidently resulting from its great vascularity. If the surgeon prefers the suture, the parts may be kept together by interrupted sutures of silver wire or common silk, after which either strips of mild unirritating plaster may be laid down at intervals, or lint dipped in warm water may be employed, if the surgeon apprehend sloughing from the bruise the part has sustained. We aie very averse, in the coaptation of lacerated wounds of the scalp, to the use of small pieces of adhesive plaster, so sedu- lously applied that no opening is left for the escape of blood and matter: it is far better to apply strips of piaster with intervals between them, leaving open spaces here and there, and to re- tain the whole by gently supporting bandages, over which wet lint may be lightly laid. We readily adopt the doctrine laid down by Pott, that sutures are highly advantageous in many cases of extensive and irregular lacerations of the scalp, although we are equally averse to their indiscriminate employment, as being in a vast ma- jority of cases unnecessary. We do not recollect a single instance in which erysipelas could be fairly ascribed to their use. Lint soaked in warm water is preferable to cold applications where there is any risk of sloughing, but in a great many cases it is a matter of comparative indifference to which the preference is given. The dress- ings should not be renewed in less than forty- eight hours, and if there is no evidence of suppu- ration a much longer period may elapse before their renewal; but it is wrong to allow them to remain yery long, particularly where, from the known or suspected habits of the patient, ei-ysipelas may be expected. There is one thing the surgeon should be prepared for after extensive detachment of the scalp, namely, a partial union of the edge of the wound with suppuration beneath the detached scalp: this is attributable to the retention of slight effusions of blood. The matter must be pressed out through the wound, and compresses and ■ bandages should be carefully applied; or it will become necessary to incise the scalp in dependent parts, taking care to avoid the track of large blood- vessels. Portions of the occipito-frontalis tendon often slough, especially when there has been much contusion of parts, and suppuration often results from this cause; therefore, if it is necessary, as is frequently the case, to give exit to the matter by incision, the surgeon shoiUd after the evacuation of the pus use gentle pressure with a sponge, and any piece of dead tendon may be carefully removed by the forceps, and thus a continual source of irrita- tion will be at once removed. After the removal of all sloughs a bandage should be employed to re- tain without undue pressure the scalp in apposition with the subjacent parts, and a complete union will often be found to have occurred even in cases where the subjacent bone has been denuded of its pericranium. By persisting steadily in this simple method, most extensively raised portions of scalp are found to unite completely to the subjacent parts, and at the edges of the wound; and the surgeon, as well as the patient, is astonished at the rapidity and completeness of the cure. It hence becomes an axiom in surgery, in the treatment of contused and lacerated wounds of the scalp, on no considera- tion whatever to remove the smallest portion of the damaged integument; and a favourable prognosis may generally be safely advanced. The modern improvements in surgerj' are in no class of cases more perceptible than in these ; and much credit is due to the surgeons of the French and English schools for, substituting this simple treatment for the barbarous mutilations of the older surgeons, who appear to have endeavoured rather to see how large a portion of the scalp they could sacrifice than how much they could save and restore to a sound con- dition. We cannot assent to the indiscriminate cen- sure which has been passed on Pott's writings in reference to this subject. There is no doubt that in Pott's time it was the custom to cut away large portions of bruised scalp, but he distinctly cautions his readers against doing too much in this respect. The constitutional treatment in lacerated scalp wounds must be strictly attended to. Abstractedly, the general treatment is the same as in similar wounds in other parts of the body, and may be comprised under the head of mild antiphlogistic treatment, with careful attention to the state of the bowels, to be followed by generous support. In cases which come under the notice of hospital surgeons in this metropolis, it is very undesirable to diminish the constitutional powers by low diet and depletory measures; but it may be requisite to modify our plans if there is much fever, and especially in cases of young and vigorous subjects, whose constitutions have received no injury from irregularities in diet, &c.: under this condition a more strictly anti- phlogistic regimen must be enjoined at first, to be succeeded by more liberal diet and tonics when suppuration has once been established. The liability to attacks of simple erysipelas in cases of wounded scalp has already been spoken of; and before quitting this subject we cannot too strongly advise the strictestattention to quietude and rest so long as any scalp wound remains unclosed. After the opening of abscesses, whilst wounds ate discharging, exposure to a cold north-easterly wind often induces fatal erysipelas. We have witnessed these attacks so frequently, that in hospital practice we never allow a patient to leave the ward before the wounds are completely closed. There appears to be a peculiar predisposition in the scalp and face to a repetition of attacks of erysipelas, and such attacks, if repeated, are frequently fatal. Erysipelas also of the phlegmonous character, where, indeed, all the tissues external to the cra- nium are involved, occasionally sets in; and, the disease extending even through the bones of the cranium by continuous sympathy, the dura mater and membranes of the brain, and even the brain itself, become simultaneously affected. So also the cellular tissue of the neck and chest, the pleurae and pericardium, may become the seat of a similar disease from an extension of the inflammation; and we have witnessed a fatal result from effusion into the pleura and pericardium. Mr. Howett {Medical Times and Gazelle, vol. xl. lO.'jS) mentions similar cases, and wo can confirm Sir Benjamin Brodic's remarks by our own experience, that such a condi- tion is frequently co-existent with disease of the liver or kidneys, or both; and there can be no doubt that in some instances it may be fairly attributed to