AMPUTATION, the integuments all round the limb. The deltoid and posterior muscles were then obliquely divided up to the capsular ligament. The tendon of the biceps, and the capsular ligament upon the ante- rior and posterior part of the joint, were now cut tlirongh. One of tlie circumflex arteries, which bled a good deal, was next tied. The great pecto- ral muscle, the rest of the capsule, and all the other parts, except the vessels and nerves, were then divided; but previously to cutting the vessels, a temporary ligature was put round them. Thus the separation of the limb was completed. The mouths of the vessels were drawn out and tied, and the temporary ligature taken away. Lastly, the sides of the wound were brought together, so as to make a transverse line. Graefe, seeming not^ to recollect that amputation by the circular incision, directed obliquely upwards, had been practised by Alanson, and even by some surgeons spoken of by Garengeot, mentions it as a new pro- position. In one case, after operating in this man- ner, his patient was quite well in three weeks ; and, with the particular sort of knife which he uses, and which is broadest towards its point, he pretends to be able to make the oblique incision through the muscles all round the limb with one sweep. He is careful to make pressure on the artery, both with Mohrenheim's compressor applied under the clavicle, and the fingers of an assistant above it. (See Normen fur die Abl, gi-osserer Gliedm. p. 110, &c.) M. Cornuau and M. Vel- peau have also suggested modifications of circular amputation at the shoujder. In the method of the former, the integuments, being drawn up by an as- sistant, are divided four inches below the acromion, and the muscles next cut through transversely by Che stroke of the knife, from the coraco-brachialis to the tendon of the teres major. The muscles are then raised, the joint opened, the knife passed through it from above downwards, close to the neck of the humerus, and a second transverse in- cision made, which joins the extremities of the first, divides the artery, and leaves a circular wound. This would not be a disadvantageous method, were the soft parts all tolerably sound. M. Velpeau informs us, that he has tried on the dead subject every variety of the circular method, and he believes that no other plan is more expe- ditious, or leaves a more regular wound, or one more disposed to union by the first intention. He prefers dissecting up, and reflecting the integu- ments for two inches, without meddling with the artery; and then cutting the muscles in M. Cor- nuau's way, as close as possible to the joint through which the knife is to be carried; and finally, the triceps divided, together with the ar- tery, which is first to be taken hold of by an as- sistant. (See Vclpcau, Nouv. Elem. t. i. p. 430.) External Flap.—The formation of an exteruid flap of square shape from the deltoid muscle, as recommended by La Faye, has already been de- scribed, and this w;is the plan which I adopted after the battle of Waterloo, excepting that I did not cut the brachial artery till I had made the last stroke of the knife, which separated the limb, and consequently I did not tie that vessel till the time when I had nothing but the hemorriiage to occupy niy attention. The circumflex arteries I tied as soon as the external flap was made. Richcrand describes nearly the same plan as that advised by La Faye, and he seems to have been one of the first to dispense with compressi.m of the ax diary artery, for instance, after making the deltoid flap, cutting the tendons, and di^loca- tiiig the bone, he dissects down close to the inside of the humerus, so as to enable an intelligent as- sistant to put his thumb on the cut surface behind the artery, which, with the aid of the fingers, ap- plied to the skin of the axilla, can then be grasped and compressed, so as to command the flow of blood through the vessel. The operator now, fear- less of hemorrhnge, completes the internal or infe- rior flap. {Richerand, Nosoqraphie Chir. t. iv n 509—511, edit. 4.) ^ Baron Dupuytren made a semicircular flap from the deltoid muscle by transfixion. The arm being raised and held at a right angle with tlie trunk, Dupuytren stood at the inside of the limb, with one hand grasped and elevated the mass of the del- toid muscle, and plunged under it a two-edged knife, from before backward, on a level with the end of the acromion. Cutting in this way close to the head of the humerus, he continued the inci- sion downward between this bone and the deltoid, and, at length bringing out the knife, completed the external or superior flap. The rest of the oper- ation did not essentially differ from Richerand's, except that Dupuytren took hold of the lower flap himself, before dividing it, and compressed the artery, until he had cut through it and tied it. Instead of transfixing, the surgeon may form a flap of this shape by incision from without inwards, after which the soft parts can be dissected fi-om be- low upwards, towards the joint. Anterior and Posterior Flaps.— Desault re- commended the formation of two flaps, one of which was anterior, the other posterior. The ax- illary artery was compressed from above the cla- vicle, at its coming out from between the scaleni muscles, whilst the integuments and flesh of the upper and internal part of the arm were pushed away from the humerus. A knife was plunged between these and the other soft parts behind, to make the anterior flap. The arm being inclined backward and outward, the humeral arter)"- was tied, the articulation opened, and the head of the bone dislocated. The knife was then carried down- ward and backward, so as to form the posterior flap, the incisions meeting in the axilla. (See SaLatier, Med. Oper. t. iii. p. 393—399, ed. 2.) Larrej'-, who had frequent opportunities of am- putating at the shoulder-joint, aimed at the same object which Desault did ; but, in his earlier opera- tions, he was in the habit of beginning with the formation of the external or posterior flap, for the following reason : by proceeding in this wa)% the surgeon can tie the humeral artery more safely, because the ligature is applied alter the operation is entirely finished, and consequently at a time when there is nothing to be attended to but the hemorrhage. Thus, the patient being placed on a stool, and well supported, the arm is to be raised from the side, and the axillary artery compressed from above the clavicle. The integuments and otlier soft parts of the upper and outer portion of the arm are then to be pushed awaj' from the hu- merus, and the posterior flap formed. It is now very easy to cut the tendons of the infra-spinatus and teres minor, and open the outside of the joint. The limb is to bo carried inward, and luxated backward. The tendons of the supra-spinatus and biceps are to be divided ; and as soon as the