905 HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. yet they all recovered under the use of a strict anti-inflammatory treatment. Most of the cases given by Dr. Hall occurred in young subjects, varj'ing from five years of age to twenty-one; and in this respect some exception may be made to them, as it is well known that children make most surprising recoveries under extreme circum- stances, doubtless owing to the readiness with which they adapt themselves to any altered condi- tion to which they are exposed. In the adult there is certainly a greater tendency to inflamma- tion and its consequences, as suppuration, ulceration, sloughing of the dura mater, and deep seated ab- scess; these may result from the pressure of the bone on the surface of the dura mater; but is it not true that the forcible raising of the bone, either by the elevator or trephine, may lead to similar consequences? We confess that our own experience leads to the conclusion that the risk of inflammation is increased rather than diminished by any operation of the nature alluded to. Never- theless, cases occur in which the bone is so forcibly and deeply depressed on the surface of the dura mater and brain, that a prudent surgeon would not feel justified in leaving it without an attempt to raise the bone. Thus, if one piece of bone is driven forcibly beneath another, and if the sharp edge of the depressed portion is pressing firmly on the dura mater, and from the depth of the depres- sion is threatening ulceration, as previously ob- served, it is better to raise the depressed portion; the same rule applies also to the case in which the depressed fracture traverses the groove of the middle meningeal artery, or one of the sinuses of the dura mater. The trephine should be employed also where a pointed instrument has penetrated the skull, fracturing and depressing the inner table of the skull to a greater extent than the outer; and in cases of depressed radiating or star-like fracture, the consequence of direct topical violence from a heavy angular or blunted instrument; as well as in all cases of punctured fracture extending into the sub- stance of the brain : and, lastly, where a foreign body is found beneath the dura mater, or is left in the substance of the brain, and which necessarily leads to suppuration, there can be no doubt about the propriety of trephining, although many of these cases would possibly do well without any opera- tion whatever. In cases, however, of compound depressed fracture of very great extent, and es- pecially where the depth of the depression is com- paratively slight, a strictly anti-inflammatory treat- ment will often prevent any mischief to the dura mater, when any violent attempt to raise the bone to its proper level will assuredly increase the risk of inflammation; and even in cases of depressed fracture, where the brahi itself is lacerated, a favourable termination of the case may occasionally under similar treatment be anticipated, in young subjects especially, provided a free exit to the damaged brain be given, aided by suitable external applications; but if any attempt is made to close the wound, death ensues, because the damaged brain and effused blood have no opportunity of es- caping. Mr. Lawrence, in his clinical lecture (London Medical Oazetie, vol. xxi. p. 145), describes the case of a boy who was thrown violently from ii cart, and whose head came in contact with apiece nf timber. He was insensible, but could move his limbs; his breathing was natural, and he had been sick. " The upper and right part of the head was covered with a large mass of clotted blood, which contained a portion of brain, about sufficient to fill a dessert spoon, which had escaped through a wound of the scalp, about a third of an inch in length, just over the coronal suture. There was a fracture of the right parietal bone, which could be traced under the integuments from the back of the bone to the situation of the wound, at which there was a considerable depression. A further escape of cerebral matter was found to have taken place when he was brought to the hospital. At the end of two hours he manifested sensibility on being pinched; he moved his limbs readily ; the circulation, respiration, temperature, and colour of the skin, were natural." Mr. Lawrence pro- ceeds to describe his reasons for non-interference in the case, thus: " As the bone was here evidently and considerably depressed, and as it was also probably driven in upon the brain, it would, 1 be- lieve, have accorded with the principles of treat- ment generally admitted, to have performed an operation for the purpose of elevating and removing depressed and detached portions of bone. The considerations which determined me not to do it were, the favourable state of the patient generally, and in particular the absence of all symptoms indi- cating compression of the brain; the smallness of the external wound, which brought this case nearly into the state of a simple fracture; the extensive incision of the integuments, and exposure of the bone, dura mater, and brain, which an operation would have involved; and the almost invariably fatal termination of such proceedings, within my own experience, in hospital practice. On the whole, I consider the dangers attendant on such an injury which befel this poor lad, to be much less than those belonging to the operation which would have been required in this case. A strict antiphlo- gistic treatment was adopted, comprising perfect quiet, opening medicines and clysters, and tea diet. The head was shaved and kept cool by the repeated application of cold cloths, and the wound was kept open, that blood and effused liquids might escape rapWIy. In thirty-six hours after the accident, tlie external senses and mental powers were com- pletely recovered, and speech was restored. When questioned he complained of pain in his head, which continued more or less for about ten days, and was the principal symptom referable to the accident. The entirely favourable progress of the case seemed to justify the course adopted, but new and alarminn- symptoms appeared on the fourteenth day. There was some increase of temperature in the head, and general feverishness. Convulsions came on in the face and right limbs, while the left arm and leg were completely paralysed. The question of opera- tion was again considered. I did not refer these symptoms to pressure of the displaced bone, be- lieving that if any effect had been produced by that cause, it would have followed the accident immediately, and I thought the present symptoms might be ascribed to the inflammation of the brain which might be expected after such an injury. The external wound was opened and probed, and' gave issue to some bloody matter. Four leeches were applied in the neighbourhood, and were fol- lowed by bread-and-water poultices. Four grains of tlie hydrargyrum cum crotA were given every four hours. A blister was applied to the nape of the neck, and the vesicated surface dressed with