FUNGUS HiEMATODES. 7G9 the tiimor,and the earlier the stage of it, the greater the proportion of gelatine to the albumen in it. On the other hand, when the morbid substance is of the consistence of soft brain, the albumen in it is in much greater quantity than the gelatine. I have already explained, however, that the firm and soft conditions of the disease are by no means any cer- tain proof of its early and advanced stages, since the morbid substance is frequently from the first of the same consistence which it exhibits in the end. Fungus haematodes, or medullary cancer, is much more frequently met with in young than old per- sons ; children of the most tender years being often its victims. I am not aware of any records by ■which a judgment might be formed of the compa- rative frequency of the disease in the two sexes. In my practice, more instances of it, in external situations, have presented themselves in males than females. The testis, as is universally acknow- ledged, is oftener the seat of it than the mamma. Speaking of it, however, more generally, I can offer no opinion of its comparative frequency in the two sexes. Dr. Kerr leans to the supposition that females are more frequently the subjects of it than males. (See Ci/dop. of Pract. Med. art. Fungxis Hceinatodes.) It is a common remark that the persons whom it attacks are generally of a sallow complexion, lax fibre, and weak circulation. Yet, when the disease is in the early stage, and limited to some external situation, as, for instance, to one of the limbs, there may be no other apparent fault in the health ; and the patient may be neither sallow nor debilitated. A fine stout healthy-looking lad was brought a few months ago to University Col- lege Hospital, who had a medullary tumor as large as an orange upon the lower border of thelatis- simiis dorsi. The same case exemplified also one character of medullary tumors meriting particular notice, viz. the extraordinary rapidity with which they sometimes increase, even though the skin may not have ulcerated. In this boy the tumor which I have mentioned enlarged so much in the course of a week, that it not only extended completely across the axilla, but far up into its cavity. But the progress of the disease is not always quick ; and at one time it may be very slow, and at other periods surprisingly rapid. Generally, when it is liberated from a part of its coverings by ulceration, or when it returns in a part in which an attempt has been made to extirpate it by operation, the growth of the protruding medullary mass is very quick. Fungus haimatodes has frequently attacked the eyeball, the upper and lower extremities, the tes- ticle, and the mamma. Cut the uterus, ovary, liver, spleen, brain, lungs, thyroid gland, hip and shoulder joints, and various other parts and organs, may be scats of the disease. It is in this medullary form of disease that a vascular organisation is most conspicuous ; and as the coats of the vessels with which it is snp|ilied are remarkably delicate, the circulation of the blood through them is readily interrupted ; hn;mo- rrliage from congestive rupture takes place ; and the elVused blood is mixed in less or greater quan- tity with the braiu-like matter. (See /{. Ciirsweli\i ill mini lions of the IClem. Forms of Disease, fasc. ii.) The appearances thus produced are termed lurnia- toid. I{y M. lloux, Dr. Carswell,and all writers who employ the expression so/l cancer, finigus hicmatodes, or medullary sarcoma, is regarded either as closely allied to cancer, or as actually a variety of it. Under the generic term of carcinoma, indeed. Dr. Cars- well comprehends scirrhus ; the common vascular or organised sarcoma of Abernethy ; also his pan- creatic, mammary, and medullary sarcoma ; and fungus hajmatodes, or the latter disease in an ad- vanced stage, with a portion of the mass of the dis- ease protruding. Dr. Carswell's reasons for this clas- sification are :—1st, That all these diseases "often present, in the early periods of their formation, certain characters common to all of them. 2ndly, They all terminate in the gradual destruction, or transformation,' of the tissues which they affect. Sidly. They have all a tendency to affect several organs in the same individual. 4thly, They all possess, although in various degrees, the same reproductive character." When medullary cancer is not of immoderate size, and situated directly under the integuments, its surface is generally at first smooth, but after a time uneven, or lobnlated; the colour of the skin not altered; the part has a soft elastic feel; and it seems as if an indistinct fluctuation were perceived in it. FUNGU.S HiEMATODES OP THE LiMB.S. In the extremities the disease begins with a small colourless tumor, which is soft and elastic if there be no thick covering over it, such as a fascia: but otherwise it is tense. At first it is free from uneasiness; but by degrees a severe acute pain darts occasionally through it, more and more frequently, and at length becomes inces- sant. For a considerable time the tumor is smooth and even; but afterwards it projects ir- regularly at one or more points; and the skin at these places becomes of a livid red colour, and feels thinner. In this situation it easily yields to pressure, but instantly bounds up again. Small openings now form in these projections, through which is discharged a thin bloody matter. Al- most immediately after these tumors burst, a small fungus protrudes, like a papilla, and this rapidly increases both in breadth and lieight, and fre- quently bleeds profusely. The matter is thin, and exceedingly fetid, and the pain becomes of the smarting kind. The integuments, for a little way round these ulcers, are red and tender. After ulceration takes place, the neighbouring glands swell, and assume exactly the spongy qualities of the primary tumor. If the patient still survive the disease in its present advanced progress, similar tumors form in other parts of the body, and the patient dies hectic. After death or amputation the tumor is found to consist of a soft substance, somewhat like the brain, of a greyish cohuu- and greasy appearance, with thin membrane-like divisions running through it, and cells, or abscesses, in different places, con- taining a thin bloody matter, occasionally in very considerable quantity. There does not seem uni- formly to be any entire cyst surrounding the tu- mor ; for it very frequently dives down betwixt the nuisclcs, or down to the bone, to which it of- ten appears to adhere. 'J'lio neighbouring uniscles are of a pale colour, and lose their fibrous appear- ance, becoming more like liver than muscle. The bones are mostly carious in the vicinity of the disease. The growth of medullary tumors near the sur- face of the body is sometimes preceded by a blow 3 D