685 FRACTURE, extensive inflammation of the limb, either phlegm- OU0U3 or eysipelatous ; delirium and fever ; large abscesses ; gangrene ; &c. Fractures of the leg are generally more serious than similar injuries ot the upper extremity. Tlie wound of a large artery may add considerably to the danger of a fracture. In a debilitated old man, or an unhealthy sub- ject, or a constitution predisposed to inflammation, particularly erysipelas, or to violent derangement of the nervous system, a fracture is less likely to end well than in a healthy child, or a strong young person, or one of good constitution. In extreme old age the cure of a fracture is always more difficult, and sometimes impossible, {Boyer, t. iii. p. 32.) Scurvy certainly retards the forma- tion of callus, and, as I have already noticed, even produces its absorption again. Fabricius Hildauus has cited two cases which tend to prove that the union of fractures is re- tarded by pregnancy. (Cent. 5. obs. 87. Cent 6. obs. 68.) Alanson has also related a case in which the union, which had been delayed dinging pregnancy, took place after delivery {Med. Obs. and Inq. vol. iv. No. 37.) ; and Werner has pub- lished an account of a fracture of the radius in a pregnant woman, where the cure was appai'ently retarded for a long time by this circumstance, and though the union took place previously to deliverj^, the callus was not very firm till after that event. {RicUer, Bill. b. xi. p. 591.) Other observations, however, have shown that though this may occasionally happen, yet that it is by no means invariably the case. Some years ago, I attended, for Mr. Ramsdeu, a woman in a court leading out of St. Paul's Churchyard, who broke both bones of her leg when she was several months gone with child. Her pregnancy, however, did not appear to be at all unfavourable to the cure, as it followed in the usual time. " It is not generally settled," says a modern writer, " whether pregnancy should be accounted a com- plication. I, as well as some other practitioners, have seen a pregnant woman get well of a simple fracture in the ordinary time." {Leveille, Nouvdte Doctrine Cliir, t. ii. p. 159. And in another place lie says, " Contra ^opinion de Fahrice Hildan, Vexpirieyice ni'a prouve que, chez les femmcsgrosses, Ic cal clait aussi prompt d se former, que chez touie autre personne." (Op. cit. t. ii. p. 172.) The ex- perience of Boyer also tends to prove that preg- nancy does not generally prevent the union of fractures. (See Mai. Chir. t. iii. p. 32.) The cases in which fractures remain disunited will be considered in a future section. 5. Treatment of Fkacturks in general. The treatment embraces three principal indica- tions. The first is to reduce the pieces of bone into their natural situation. The second is to se- cure and keep them in this state. A]id the third is to prevent any unpleasant symptoms likely to arise, and relieve tlicm if they come on. Tlie first indication is only applicable to cases attended witli displacement ; fir when the frag- ments are not out of their relative position, the surgeon must strictly refrain from all avoid.-ible disturbance of the limb. His interleroncc sliould then be limited to putting up the fracture, resist- ing the accession of unfavourable symptoms, and removing them, if possible, after they have taken placi.'. Reduction.—The means employed for the reduc- tion of fractures in general are chiefly three, viz. extension, counter-extension, and coaptation, or set- ting. But, as Boyer remarks, these means should vary according to the species of displacement; and surgical writers have generalised too much in representing them all three as necessary for the reduction of every kind of fracture. In fact, there are several cases in which extension and counter- extension are positively useless ; of this nature are fractures of the patella and olecranon, where the displacement consists of a separation of the frag- ments. Here the reduction may be accomplished, by putting the limb in a position in which the muscles attached to the upper part of the bone are relaxed, and then pushing the upper fragment into contact with the lower. Extension signifies the act of pulling the broken part in a direction from the trunk, with the view of bringing the ends of the fracture into their natural situation. By counter-extension, surgeons imply the act of making extension in the opposite direc- tion, in order to hinder the limb, or even the whole body, from being drawn along by the extending power, which would then be unavailing. It was formerly recommended to apply the extending force to the lower fragment, and the counter-extension to the upper one. Such prac- tice, indeed, was advised by Mr. Pott, and is still generally preferred in this country; but upon the continent it has been abandoned. The ob- jections made to it by Boyer are : first, that it is frequently difficult, and sometimes impossible, to take hold of the two fragments; as, for example, when the neck of the thigh-bone is broken. Secondly, that by applying the extension and counter-extension to the broken bone itself, most of the muscles which surroimd it are compressed, and such compression produces in these organs a spasmodic contraction which often renders the extension and counter-extension useless, and some- times even hurtful. {Mai. Chir. t. iii. p. 34.) The French surgeons, therefore, apply the ex- tending force to that part of the limb which is articulated with the lower fragment, and the counter-extension to that which is articulated with the upper. For instance, in a fracture of the leg, the extending means act upon the foot, and the counter-extending upon the thigh; and in a frac- ture of the thigh the extension is applied to the leg, while the counter-extending power fixes the pelvis. One circumstance must here occur to the mind of the surgical reader. In this country it is pro- perly inculcated that one of the first principles to be attended to in the reduction of fractures is to put the limb in such a position as will relax the most powerful muscles connected with the broken bone; because these muscles principally impede tlie reduction and disturb the ends of the fracture. But in the French mode of making the extension and counter-extension, how ciin this grand principle be conveniently i'uliillod ? If tlio extending and counter-extending means are not to be applied to the broken bono itself, but to others whicii are articulati'd with it, the limb nuist of necessity be kept in a straight posture at the time of reducing the fracture ; for were the limb placed in a half-bent state, the extension and counter^ extension, as practised by the continental surgeons, would not bo ill the same line, and, therefore',