GONORRHCEA. 799 first of a soothing, and afterwards of an astringent character. In vulvar gonorrhoea the pans affected are red, more or less swollen and inflamed, their sensibility is much increased, and their surfaces often present excoriations, or even superficial ulcer- ations. Sometimes the labia, nympha), and pre- putium are considerably swollen and distorted by cedematous infiltration, and, in extreme cases, usually originating in neglect, the skin between the labia and thighs, as well as that of the inguinal regions, are excoriated, and exude a highly fetid purulent secretion. The attendant inflammation is not always confined to the mere surface, but oc- casionally invades the glandular structures of the vulva and the submucous cellular tissues, giving rise to phlegmonous and lacunar abscesses. The symptoms vary in degree according to the extent and severity of the attack. In simple cases they consist of itching, tenderness, scalding after mic- turition from the contact of urine, with, in some cases, uneasiness about the hips and perinEeum; in- creased discharge, at first of mucus, afterwards of a muco-purulent, and lastly of a purulent secretion, accompany these symptoms. In the more severe cases the patient is unable to walk, from the ex- cessive tenderness of the external parts, and it is with difficulty she can bear even the sitting posi- tion ; the discharge is increased in quantity, be- comes more acrid in quality, capable of excoriating the surfaces with which it comes in contact, and emits a peculiarly offensive odour. When lacunar or phlegmonous abscesses form, there are super- added to the above symptoms the localised throb- bing pain, accompanied by pyrexia, which are usually associated with the formation of matter in the neighbourhood of the visceral outlets. Tlie treatment, where no abscess exists, consists in regulating and moderating the diet, in adminis- tering remedies to counteract inflammatory action. Saline aperients, with or without antimony, and sometimes anodyne medicines arc all that is re- quired. The abstraction of blood, by general bleed- ing, is seldom necessary, and the local application of leeches is inadmissible, both on account of the slate of the parts and the fear of inoculation from the possible presence of an unobserved chancre, which might be concealed between or just within the carunculfe myrtiformes, and thus escape notice. The local treatment by soothing and mild astrin- gent lotions will be found most efficient. Decoc- tion of poppies, solutions of opium, or of prepara- tions of morphia, will meet the former indication; the ordinary astringent metallic salts, such as the sulphate of zinc, the nitrate of silver, the acetate of lead, the sulphate of copper, of the strength of one or two grains to the o\tnce of water, or Goulard's lotion, of double strength, or a weak lotion of chlorinated lime or soda, will effectually meet the latter. Should abscesses form, emollient poultices may be applied ; and when fluctuation becomes distinct, the abscesses should be freely opened, in order to prevent burrowing and the formation of fistula;, which latter are otherwise apt to form, communicating either with the vagina or rectum, or witii both. Should the mucous membrane bo undermined by the abscess, por- tions of it may be advantageously removed. An abscess in the external labium should, as a general rule, be opened on its cutaneous surface. Vaginal Gonorrhcea. — Gonorrhceal inflamma- tion may extend from the vulva to the vagina; but most frequently the disease commences in the vagina itself. The vaginitis resulting from gonorrhceal infection is not always to be de- tected by ocular inspection ; but, in well-marked acute cases, by the aid of the speculum, in- creased vascularity will he observed, especially on the raised portions of the vaginal folds; occasionally ulcerated surfaces may be here and there seen; and when the disease has existed for some time, and has been severe, an appearance re- sembling the affection of the eyelids, termed gra- nular lids, may, as a more rare occurrence, be noticed, indicating that the mucous follicles have become implicated. It is seldom that the submucous cellular tissue is invaded, but in exceptional cases phlegmonous abscess and even sloughing have supervened. The local symptoms are generally of a milder character where the vagina is the seat of the disease, than when the external parts are af- fected ; and although the discharge is much more profuse in vaginitis, the patient's sufferings are in- finitely less. However, in the onset of the attack, and in acute cases, the pains and uneasiness about the groins, hips, and pelvic region generally, are greatly complained of; but the excessive tender- ness attendant on vidvitis is not experienced. In fact, in the majorit}' of cases the inconvenience is so slight that the patient can hardly persuade her- self that she is labouring under any more serious affection than leucorrhoea. Indeed, so much do the two affections resemble each other that it is often difficult even for the surgeon to diagnose cor- rectly between them. The contagious nature of the discharge in all cases of gonorrhcea and its non-contagious character in most cases of leucor- rhcEa constitutes the principal difference ; but this distinctive character is lost in severe cases of leu- corrhrea, in which the discharge may from its acrid or irritating quality produce an inflamma- tion and discharge in the male urethra resem- bling, in most of the accompanying symptoms, a severe gonorrhosa, Tlie treatment of gonorrhceal vaginitis should be general and local. The patient shoidd avoid bodily exertion ; her diet should consist of mild and for the most part farinaceous aliment ; she should avoid all stimulants, and the only medicines usually required would be saline aperients, or other remedies directed against inflammatory action. The surgeon will depend more upon local treatment for the relief and cure of this aftection. Amongst the local remedies, injections hold the first rank. While the inflammatory symptoms are present, these should be of an emollient and soothing character, or mildly astringent. The decoction of poppies, or weak opiate solutions, and the prepa- rations of lead, form the best injections under these circumstances; tho acetate of lead lotion, 1 gr. to" the ounce, or tho ordinary Goulard lotion, to which opiates may be added, answer exceedingly well. But when tho inflammatory symptoms have subsided, and a profuse purulent discharge consti- tutes the prominent feature of the case, the more strongly astringent injections arc to be preferred. The sulphate of alum; the nitrate of silver; the sul- phate of zinc; the Sulphate of copper, all form very efficient injections, beginning with the strength of 1 gr. to the ounce of water, gradually increased to 5 or 6 grs., as the disease becomes of older date, or when it assumes a chronic form. The vegetable astringents, such as the decoction of oak bark, of