EXOSTOSIS In other instances the tumor is perfectly solid, exceeding- m consistence that of the hardest bones and equalhn^r that of ivory. The ivory exostosis IS thought by Mr. Mayo to be occasionally malig- nant ; and he mentions that Mr. Stanley has a preparation of one, which is combined with me- dullary sarcoma. {Human Pathology, p. 14.) I suspect that this must have been an accidental concurrence with the more solid exostosis. Here the surface is sometimes smooth, and like that of the bone m its natural state ; sometimes irregular, lull oi little projections, and in some degree stalac- tical. It IS uncommon to find a large portion of an exostosis converted into a pultaceous substance- but It IS not at all unfrequent to see this substance composing part of the tumor. Lastly, it often happens that the same exostosis presents an assem- blage of the ivory substance, and of the cellular Jammated substance, the cavities of which are partly filled with a pultaceous matter, and partly witJi a sort of gelatinous substance. An extraordinary instance of what is sometimes called spiculated exostosis, is related. Lamina or ramifications of bone, are represented as projec- ting from the various bones, and causing ankylosis of every joint, with the exception of the wrists and knees. One branch is seen to extend from the coccyx to the femur. Another case is also reported by Freke where the exostoses are compared to the branching of coral, the bony formations pro- jecting from the cervical and other vertebras, and joining others from the ribs, so as to make a kind of bodice on the back. (See Pldl. Trans, vol. 41 • and WtcMiam, On Diseases of Joints, p. 8.) When an exostosis is not very large, it hardly affects the surrounding soft parts; but when it has made considerable progress, the muscles become stretched and emaciated, the cellular tissue is thickened, and, its layers being adherent together a, kind of confusion is produced amongst all the ad- jacent parts. Exostoses not of considerable size may, however, seriously interrupt the functions of certain organs. The action of the flexor muscles of the leg has been kno;vn to be obstructed by an exostosis m the vicinity of the knee. An osseous tumor, arising near the symphysis pubis, need not be very large to impede considerably the functions of the urethra, as experience has proved. An exostosis in the orbit has been known to displace the eye and destroy vision. Lastly, exostoses, when situated near certain important organs, and of large size, may affect with difi^erent degrees of gravity the functions of these parts, as the brain 541—544 f*"" ^^"^ *• P' Sir Astley Cooper has related a case, in which the eyes were pushed out of their sockets by two exostoses, which grew from the antra, and one of which destroyed the patient by making its way to the brain through the orbitar process of the os nontis. {Surgical Essays, part i. p. 157.) In exostn • f'"' 'T'^^-^ the same author, an bra abo ilT.?^' ^ °' «"vical verte- Son the «P"^^^ ^vrist, by pressing bran ofc;" '^^"'"'^'^ "^e medullary mem^ it pr s I ' t rj!, J^:^ -*«"ded so far ba^k that itpresspfl fl,o ' -'^"■^'luuu so lar DacJc that tidl L , epiglo tis down upon the rima glot- (p. 175). *hnt the patient was destroyed [Mr. Paget refers to an enormous specimen of ex- ostosis m the Museum of the College of Surgeons It (onyed an irregular oval mass surrounding the upper two-thirds of the tibia. It was composed of cancellous structure, surrounded by a thin layer of compact tissue. It measured exactly a yard in circumference, and the limb, after ampitation weighed forty-two pounds. He also refers to a of wb-J^'T''"'- °^ University of Cambridge, of which he gives a wood-cut (p. 236, op. cit.) 1 he disease appears to occupy the os-fron^is, all the bones of the face, and to encroach considerably on the interior of the skull. {Ledures on Surgical Pathology, vol. ii. p. 233.)] ^ Some particulars of an exostosis are recorded which projected from the posterior surface of the symphysis pubis into the bladder. The case, while the patient lived, might have been mistaken for an adherent calculus. (See J. Cloqtiet, Paihol. Chir. p. 130 4to. Paris, 1831.) Dupuytren-had a case in which an exostosis of the femur obliterated the femoral artery. {See Clin. Chir.) A patient had an exostosis of the first rib, which threw forward the subclavian artery, so as to give the appearance of a subclavian aneurism. (See Maya's Outlines of Human Pathology, p. 12.) I find a case refer- red to, in which an exostosis of the anterior surface of the sacrum pushed the rectum so far forwards as to render the introduction of a small bougie into that bowel very difficult. {B.Bell, On Diseases of Bones, p. 115, 12mo. Edinb. 1828.) Frequently exostoses interrupt the free movement of a joint ; thus, Mr. H. Lyford removed one which was of the size and shape of the little finger, and situated just on the inside of the capsular ligament of the shoulder joint, on the front and inner part of the humerus. The direction of the point was upward and inward toward the clavicle and sternum, and the motion of the humerus inwards was interfered with. (See W. J. Wicleham, On Diseases of ilie Joints, p. 7;) Venereal exostoses, or nodes, are observed to arise chiefly on compact bones, and such of these as are superficially covered with soft parts, as, for instance, the bones of the cranium, and the front surface of the tibia, the sternum, the anterior part of the clavicle, the outer surface of the radius just above the wrist, the back part of the ulna just below the elbow. The causes of exostoses are obscure. They may be induced, however, by a blow, or by pressure. Most writers impute the disease to internal causes, such as scrofula and lues venerea. That the Litter affection is the cause of nodes, which are certainly a species of exostosis, no one will deny: but that scrofula is concerned in producing exostoses is more doubtful. Sometimes I have suspected that some of those bony swellings, which are so com- mon in children during the rapid growth of the bodj% are connected with a scrofulous constitution. At all events, I have noticed them with great fre- quency in children of this description, though it might onlj' be an accidental coincidence. The readiness with which bony tumors form in some persons, renders it probable that constitu- tional causes have great influence. Thus, such a blow as, in the generality of persons, would hardl}' e.xcite notice, will in others bring on swellings of the bone which is struck. Sir Astley Cooper ad- verts to a 3'oung friend of his, in whom an exostosis.