813 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. stated briefly, but most distinctly, the comparative advantages of that practice, with those which may be expected by delay. (See Traiie, ou Rejleorions tiries de la Pratiqtie sur les Plaies d'Armes a feu, par H. F. Le Dran, a Paris, 1737.) Ranby, who was serjeant-surgeon to King George II., entertained similar opinions to those of Le Dran, with regard to the utility of immediate amputation. In order to give imme- diate relief to the wounded, and to facilitate the performance of the necessary operations, Ranby proposed that the surgeons, during battle, should be collected into small bodies, and stationed in the rear of the army. (See The Method of treating Gunshot Wounds, by John Ra7iby, ed. 3. p. 29. Lond. 1781.) Schniucker, who was many years surgeon-general to the Prussian armies, published in 1776 an essay on amputation, in which he par- ticularly mentions that, during his stay at Paris, in 1738, the surgeons of the Hotel-Dieu had been in the habit of performing immediate amputation in severe injuries of the extremities. He also de- clares himself an advocate for operating immedi- ately in all cases in ivhich amputation from the first appears to be necessary, and insists, in a particular manner, on the increased danger which he had seen arise from the operation during the second period. He gives (as Dr. J. Thomson has ob- served) a minute and circumstantial enumeration of those injuries, both of the upper and lower ex- tremities, in which he conceived amputation to be necessary, and in many of which he liad actually performed it with great success. Schmucker ap- pears to Dr. Thomson to have given a better ac- count than any preceding military surgeon, of the injuries of the thigh ; and from the results of his experience, he was led to believe that, though compound fractures of the loiver jJart of the thigh- hone might, in favourable circumstances, be cured, tcilJtout amputation, yet that this operation is pecu- liarly necessary in all cases in which the fracture is situated in or above the middle of that bone. (J. L. Schmucker, Vermischte Chirurgische Schriften, b. i. Berlin, 1785.) With the foregoing high authority we have to join one of not less celebrity, namely, that of Baron Larrey, who has proved most con- vincingly, that when amputation is to be done in cases of gunshot wounds, nothing is so pernicious as delay. (See Mem.de Chir. Mil. t. ii. p. 451, &c.) The principles inculcated by Baron Larrey are, in point of fact, the same as those which were so strenuously insisted upon by Pott, whose principal remarks on the necessity of amputation in certain cases are detailed in another part of this publica- tion. (See Amputation.) Pott, indeed, was not an army-surgeon, and what he says was not parti- cularly designed to apply to military practice : but he has represented, as well as any body can do, the propriety of immediate amputation for injuries which leave no doubt that such operation cannot be dispensed with. Mr. John Bell, amongst the modems, appears likewise to have much merit for the able manner in which he defended the proprietj- of early ampu- tation, long before the sentiments of later writers were ever heard of. He distinctly states that " amputation should, in those cases where the liml) is plainly and irrecoverably disordered, be per- formed upon the spot." (See Discourses on the Nature, S(c., of Wounds, p. 488. edit. 3.) In short, notwithstanding nil the modern pretensions to novelty upon this interesting topic, we must ac- knowledge, with Dr. Thomson, that the evidence in favour of the advantages of immediate amputa- tion has always preponderated over that for delay. (See Repo7i of Obs. ^c. p. 225.) The strongest body of evidence upon this matter is undoubtedly adduced by Baron Larrey, whose situation at the head of the surgical department of the French armies afforded him most numerous opportunities of judging from actual experience. " Upon this subject (says he), now that twenty years of continual war have carried our art to the highest pitch of perfection, there can only be one opinion. It is after having incessantly directed the medical service all this time, in the quality of head- surgeon and inspector-general of the armies, that I proceed to discuss the different opinions delivered in the Academy, and to settle definitely this great question, which I regard as the most important in military surgery. " If we are to be told that the amputation of a limb is a cruel operation, dangerous in its conse- quences, and always grievous for the patient, who is thereby mutilated ; that, consequently, there ia more honour in saving a limb than in cutting it off with dexterity and success ; these arguments may be refuted by answering that amputation is an ope- ration of necessity which offers a chance of preser- vation to the unfortunate, whose death appears certain under any other treatment ; and that, if any doubt should exist of amputation being abso- lutely indispensable to the patient's safety, the ope- ration is to be deferred till nature has declared herself, and given a positive indication for it. We are also justified in adding that this chance of pre- servation is at the present day much greater than at the epoch of the Academy of Surgery. We learn from M. Faure that of about three hundred amputations performed after the battle of Fonte- noy, only thirty were followed by success, whilst on the contrary (says Baron Larrey) we have saved more than three-fourths of the patients on whom amputation has been done, and some of whom' also had two limbs removed." This im- provement is ascribed by Larrey, 1. To our now knowing better how to take advantage of the indi- cation and favourable time for amputating. 2. To the better method of dressing. 3. To the mode of operating being more simple, less painful, and more expeditious than that formerly in vogue. To the preceding authorities against delaying amputation in cases of gunshot wounds requiring such operation, I have to add jVIr. Guthrie, whose opportunities of observation during the late war in Spain were particularly extensive. In his work he has detailed the opinions of many eminent foreign and British surgeons respecting the propriety or impropriety of the doctrine of immediate ampu- tation, and he has introduced some good criticisms particularly on Bilguer's statement of the success which was experienced in the Prussian hospitals from not performing the operation. Mr. Guthrie however, does not recommend amputation to be done immediately, if the patient bo jiarticularly depressed by the shock of the injury directly after its receipt ; a piece of advice which i believe has, in reality, been at all times followed, not only in respect to amputations in cases of gunshot wonnds, but all other severe local injuries. " I believe it to be (says Mr. Guthrie), a stretch of fancy in those surgeons who conceive that if the Jcnife followed the shot in