CANCER. c c 4 and of the ordained measure and figure. Who could believe that a tendon was formed because there existed a gelatigenous substance in the blood ? So neither can I believe that a cancer is formed because a carcigenous matter has become evolved in the blood. That power which once made the living machine, continues to maintain its composition; and its aberrations and perversions from the normal mode of acting are, I believe, the root, though unseen cause of all morbid changes in which the development and increase of a new formation are prominent phenomena. Mr. Pagel's own statement of the transmission of cancerous tendencj' by hereditaiy descent is quite in accord ance with the above view. He does not suppose that cancerous material is furnished by either parent, but that " one or more of the materials, normal as they may seem, are already so far from the perfectly normal state, that, after the lapse of years, by their development or degeneration, they will engender or constitute the cancerous material in tiie blood, and it may be the locality apt for a cancerous growth. But now let it be observed this tendency to cancerous disease is most com- monly derived from a parent who is not yet mani- festly cancerous ; for most commonly the children are born before cancer is evident in the parent; so that as we may say that which is still future to the parent is transmitted potentially to the off- spring." This passage, and more might be quoted, seems to me to admit what I contend for, that it is a tendency which is transmitted, a power, and not a material thing of any kind whatsoever. One cannot surely err in believing that that which makes the ultimate difference in the evo- lution of the embryos of the carthorse and the racer is not at all a chemical difference in their component materials, but a difference of vital en- dowments. There may be the very same oil and albumen and salts in each, but the power that builds with and fashions them acts surely not alike in both. That which is transmitted in here ditary descent is a power, a force, which deter- mines the development of material in a direction according with the ancestral. If a family for several generations are web-footed, or six-fingered, stirely this is not from a superabundance of such material in the blood of the original parent, but from a peculiarity of developmental force. To not a few, I believe, such expressions as the last are a very abomination, because they refer to something unseen, untangible, not to be weighed and measured. To refer any phenomenon to the working of vital power, is, according to them, to abandon all sound investigation. Yet it does appear to me, after full consideration, that it is quite necessary, according to the degree of know- ledge we possess at present, to think of vital force and endowment as independent of chemical com- position. I cannot possibly conceive that a liver is constantly formed in one place, a heart in an- other, and a kidney in a third, because the mate- rials fit to form them are contained in the circulat- ing blood. Some power, then, must exist, utterly mysterious and incomprehensible though it bo under whose sway the indifferent homogeneous matter becomes differentiated, shaped, and endued with particular qualities in particular sites. This power, though resident in matter, yet varies with- out con-esponding variations in that matter; it may be wholly annulled, and cease as at death, the or- 391 ganic structure and composition for a short time remaining unchanged. This power, for instance, at first constructs a uterus, or mamma, out of the liquor sanguinis, and gradually developes it up to its complete state, which it then preserves. If it continue in proper exercise, the nutrition of the organ will be duly performed, a certain amount of material will be withdrawn from and returned to the blood, and the parts will remain healthy. But if this power become somewhat perverted, then some portion of plasma, probably effused in excess, becomes a focus of independent and indefinitely limited growth. In the commonest case it is in- fluenced in its development by the nutrition force of the surrounding tissue, and so becomes a fibrous tumor, or fibro-muscular tumor (see Dr. Bristowe's paper,p.2l8,Paih.Soc. Trans. 1853), which thence- forth assimilates plasma, and grows, it may be, to a far larger size than the uterus itself. Is not the one grand " moment" here the origination of a new abnormal focus of growth ? If we could annul that dynamic modification, would not the crasis of the blood remain quite ineffectual to pro- duce the fibrous tumor ? In conformity with this view, I believe cancer to depend upon a peculiar perversion or disorder of the normal assimilativo force, not at all upon any specific alteration of th.j composition of the blood. Hereditary transmission is observed in a com- paratively small proportion of instances, only one- sixth of the whole, according to Mr. Paget, and in a far smaller proportion according to Lerov d'Etiolles. There is very little reason to think that cancer is ever produced in the way of con • tagion or inoculation. The experiment of inject- ing cancerous matter into the veins of animals, ha 3 very rarely succeeded, and in the one or two suc- cessful instances it cannot be quite certainly af- firmed that cancer did not previously exist. In dogs, which were the subjects of Langenbeck's experiments, as well as in other animals, cancer is by no means mfrequent. Dr. Walshe considers that there is no fact in the history of cancer more absolutely demonstrated than the influence exer- cised by sex on its development. His figures show, " that the female population of this country IS destroyed to about 2f times as great an extent by cancer as the male," although the rate of mor- tality is rather higher among males than it is among females. Mr. Paget does not speak so positively, and it would seem not impossible that the number of cancers occurring in males may be under estimated in consequence of their real nature not being so apparent as in the common mammary and uterine of the female. In 130 cases collected indifferently, I find S cases of cancer in males, and 4 in females The number is small, but the autopsies were all pretty thoroughly performed. ^ ' Both Mr. Paget and Dr. Walshe agree as to the influence of age. The conclusion of the latter Irom the records of death, and that of the former Irom the periods of first detection of the cancers coincide to show that the liability to the disease is alvvays increasing from childhood to the aee of Righty. «>- Dr. Walshe has collected evidence to the effect that certain regions of the globe are peculiarly exempt from cancer; Africa, East Indies, and the tropical parts of America are particularly instanced Oliinn, on the other hand, suffers more; but the