8 ABSCESS. The constitutional symptoms during the suppu- ration are very variable. In most cases, so soon as suppuration has taken place, it seems as if the dis- ease had done its worst, and was pacified; feverish- ness abates, and pain ceases or changes its charac- ter. This can only be if the abscess be seated in loose and extensible parts. If it be confined by tendinous or fascial structures, which do not bulge out before the matter, nor are softened and disin- tegrated (absorbed, as the older surgeons said) without great difiicult3% then the pain increases continually in intensity'' till relief is obtained. One other constitutional symptom there is which demands more examination tlian is often given to it. We have said before and elsewhere (see In- flammation),, that shivering appears to be one of the earliest signs that some grave alteration is taking place in the blood, that something is re- ceived into the veins which directly affects the composition of that fluid, or that some change is taking place by virtue of a deleterious substance pre- viously received. For example, no matter when or how a man imbibes the poison of fever or erj^sipelas, he will feel a shivering when the mischief is be- ginning in good earnest; and, in like manner, the onset of the inflammation which precedes abscess is commonly marked by a shivering. But there is another kind of shivering which may accompany suppuration, and which occurs when mat- ter is pent up and cannot escape ; more especially if, as we may presume, that matter contains some noxious ingredient. It is often taught in surgical books and lectures, that rigors are a sign of sup- puration; but this is not absolutely true, because, if we except the shivering which occurs at the commencement of the case, before any pus is formed at all, the subsequent stages of most ab- scesses are marked by no rigors whatever. Thefact is, that under certain circumstances,rigors occur after suppuration has occurred; and they show what, in the language of the students of the Hun- terian epoch, would be called irritation of the consti- tution at a disease which cannot be overcome; and ■what, in the language of the humoralists of the pre- sent day, would be interpreted as absorption of dele- terious matter from aai abscess which has no vent. The rigors of suppm-ation form the cold stage of true lieciic fever. They generally corns regularly at the same hour every day; they are followed by a hot stage, and afterwards by a profuse sweat of a disagreeable smell. The pulse becomes quick, the tongue red and raw-looking, and there is a tendency to diarrhoea. Tho following case will show the true nature of these symptoms : — The writer was consulted by a lady for ague. She had had two fits, on two successive days, of rigors, in the evening, followed by great headache and heat, and by very great and offensive perspiration during the night. On fur- ther inquiry, one breast had been painful the pre- ceding week, and was said to be somewhat swelled and painful now. The breast, on examination, presented an obscure indication of deep-seated sup- puration ; a history was plunged in, a large quantity of pus escaped, and the rigors returned no more. Rigors, therefore, do not indicate suppuration purely, nor is the absence of rigors a sign of the absence of suppuration; although, if present, they give strong ground for believing that matter is con- fined somewhere. (See Hkctiu.) After the abscess has burst or has been opened, if the patient is fortunate and of good constitution, the case is at an end. The walls of the cavity fall together, the chasm is filled with pale pink lymph, and cicatrisation may ensue in forty-eight hours. (See Hunter on Ilia Blood, c. iv. § 3; Ma- carbiey on InJlammaUon, p. 55.) In less fortunate cases, the discharge may con- tinue, the aperture may enlarge, and the cure be completed by a more or less tedious process of GRANUI.ATION. (q. V.) An unhealed abscess, con- tracted into a narrow passage, is called Fistula, or Sinus, (q. v.) If it have a wide orifice, it becomes an Ulcer, (q. v.) There is one part of the history of abscesses which has degenerated into such a dreary common- place, that it is with difficulty the writer can bring himself to allude to it at all. This is the alleged law, that inflammation is always most intense on the side nearest the surface of the body; that ulcer- ation, or interstitial absorption, has always a ten- dency to spread most in that direction; in fact, that there resides in the animal body a kind of centrifugal eliminative law, by virtue of which all extraneous matters, including pus, are brought to the surface. " We have, therefore," says Hunter, " always extraneous bodies of every kind _ deter- mined to the skin, and on that side to which the extraneous body is nearest, without having any effect or producing the least destruction of any of the other surrounding parts. From this cause we find abscesses, &c., whose seat is in or near the centre of a part, readily determined to the surface on the one side and not on the other; and wherever the lead is once taken, it immediately goes on." So far. Hunter affirms a universal law, to the effect that " one side only of the surrounding living parts is susceptible of this irritation, therefore one side only is absorbed; and this is alwa)'8 the side nearest to the external surface of the body." But, with characteristic carelessness, he immediately after- wards states, that " as some parts/ro»i their struc- ture are more susceptible of this irritation than others, we find that those parts composed of such structure are often absorbed although they are not in the shortest road to the skin ; this structure is the cellular membrane, as will be taken notice of hereafter." The most probable account of the matter is, that some tissues are more prone to be the seat of exu- dation than others, and, par excellence, the subcu- taneous areolar tissue; that some tissues^ resist infiltration and subsequent softening — possibly by virtue of their mechanical properties, as fascia, muscle, artery, and vein; and, consequently, that an exudation will rather increase in the direction of the skin, amongst the tissues easily admitting of it, than through muscle. The tissues which are most easily infiltrated and softened down in suppuration are those also which ulcerate most easily — skin, areolai- tissue, and tlic mucous membrane, to which must be added bone and cartilage; but arteries, veins, glands, and muscles are comparatively unaffected, aud often appear in abscesses and ulcers with then- surfaces as if cleanly dissected. Yet there is no tissue whatever which may not suppurate under some circmustances. Tho chronic abscess is the result of a very 'low degree of inflammation, or of none. It is a mere symptom ; a consequence of some slow disease of bone or of ulceration of mucous membrane, or