internal inguinal ligament, (fascia iransversalis,) in the rear of which is the peritoneum, with the in- tervention of a very loose cellular substance. (Op. cit. p. 26.) The intenial inguinal ligament of Hes- selbach is therefore clearly the same thing as the above lascia ( fascia iransversalis) first described by Sir A. Cooper. This point of the abdomen is one of the three weak places on the inside of the inguinal region, where hernise are liable to occur; yet, weak as it appears to be, it is not the most common situation of such tumors. A computa- tion has been made that, in a hundred cases of in- guinal hernia, not ten occur at the point here specified. (H. J. Briininghausen, Unterrich iiber die, Briiche, ^c. Wurzb. 1811.) Mr. Lawrence observes that, if we trace the fascia tranaversalis from the crural arch upwards, we shall find it divided immediately into two portions, an internal and external, which leave between them a con- siderable interval just in the middle of the crural arch. The former of these, which is the strongest, and most decidedly fibrous, is connected by its inner edge to the outer margin of the rectus, and to the inferior margin of the tendon of the obliquus internus and trans versus; and both are gradually lost above, between the peritoneum and trans- versus, {On Ruptures, ed. 4, p. 179.) The spermatic vessels, joined by the vas de- ferens, run in front of the epigastric artery, very near the place of its origin. They then pass through an opening in the above fascia {internal abdominal ring), go under the edge of the internal oblique and transverse muscles, and next obliquely downwards and forwards, first between the above fascia and aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, then between the last-named structure and conjoined tendons of the transversalis and in- ternal oblique, to the opening of the external ring. When arrived on the smooth surface immediately behind this ring, they describe an obtuse angle, and pass forwards and downwards into the scrotum. {Hesselbacli, op. cit. p. 5.) Thus, the spermatic cord, before it actually emerges at what is named the abdominal ring, runs through a kind of canal, to which the epithet inguinal is often applied. This oblique passage of the cord through the abdominal parietes was well known to and elegantly delineated by Albinus. Gimbernat makes distinct mention of it in his Account of a Neiv Method of operating for Femoral Hernia, p. 19, 32. But Sir A. Cooper has the merit of having given the earliest correct account of it in reference to hernia; a subject rendered complete by the more recent elucidations of Hes- selbach, Scarpa, Langenbeck, and Cloquet, The external abdominal ring is then only the outer opening of the canal or passage through which the spermatic cord passes before it emerges. The inner ring, at which the viscera first protrude in the most common cases of inguinal hernia, is situated about an inch and a half from the external ring, m the direction towards the anterior superior spmous process of the ilium; or, according to Sir Astley Cooper and Hesaelbach, the inguinal canal 18 almost an inch and a half in length, the average distance of the outer pillar of the external ring irom the inner pillar of what the latter terms the posterior ring being about sixteen lines. (Op. cit. r.,",>;!: »u '""""^ opening is rather nearer to the ilium. W J° ''""'""'^ «»P'^"°'^ spine of the "ra. It IS formed in the fascia transversalis, and JSERNIA. from its margin the infimdibuliform fascia or fascia propria of an oblique inguinal hernia is derived. " The precise point at which the hernia most commonly begins (says Scarpa) is that which cor- responds in the foetus to the communication of the tunica vaginalis with the peritoneum, and in the adult to the passage of the spermatic cord [through the internal ring and] under the transverse muscle. In the sound state, the peritoneum presents at this part a small funnel-like depression, the depth of which increases in proportion as the spermatic cord is pulled from above downwards. It is this small pouch, this sort of digital appendage, whose progressive augmentation constitutes the hernial sac. Resting upon the anterior surface of the spermatic cord, it first makes its appearance under the inferior edge of the transverse muscle; thence it extends itself in the separation of the inferior fleshy fibres of the internal oblique muscle, always following the spermatic cord, in front of which it is situated; and, after having in this manner passed through the whole of the canal, which extends from the iliac region to the pubes, it lastly protrudes at its external orifice, which is the inguinal {exter- nal abdominal) ring, properly so called. In all this track the hernial sac, as well as the spermatic cord, is situated above the femoral arch {Pouparfs ligament), the direction of which it follows. The canal which it traverses is of a conical shape, the apex of which is towards the ilium, and the base at the external orifice of the ring." {Scarpa, Traite des Hernies, p. 44, 45.) The inguinal canal is wider, and its apertures are much more distinct, in the male, than the female subject. The epigastric artery runs behind the spermatic cord, along the inner margin of the internal open- ing of the above canal, then upwards and inwards, so as to pass at the distance of half an inch, or an inch, from the upper extremity of the outer open- ing, or external abdominal ring. In common cases of oblique inguinal hernia, the viscera protruded at the inner opening of the inguinal canal lie over the spermatic cord, and form a tumor on the outside of the abdominal ring. When the viscera have entered the above- described digital pouch of the peritoneum, and the inguinal canal, but do not protrude through the ex- ternal abdominal ring, the case is sometimes termed an incomplete inguinal hernia {bubonocele), and com- plete when they pass out of that opening. The viscera may continue for a long while quite within the inguinal canal, and even become strangulated there: sometimes, also, they are prevented from passing further towards the external ring by some kind of impediment; and, in this circumstance, if the hernial sac have any addition made to its con- tents, it may expand between the external and internal oblique muscles, as Hesselbach had an opportunity of seeing in the bod}^ of a female. {Ueber den Vrsprung, S[c. der Leisien-nnd-Schen- kelbrilche, p. 28.) The stricture may take place either at the internal or external opening of the inguinal canal. In recent and small hernise, ac- cording to Sir A. Cooper, the strangulation is most frequently situated at the inner opening; in large old ruptures, at the external abdominal ring. Even when the parts completely protrude out of the latter opening, the strangulation may exist at the inner one; but there may occasionally