DISLOCATION. 639 hunierua, by means of a band passed beneath tlie axilla, he applied his two hands, with the fingers crossed, upon the anterior surface of the fore-arm close to the elbow, and thus drawing the radius and ulna downwards and backwards, effected the reduction at once.—{Malgaigne, op. cit. p. 628.) Three recorded cases only of dislocation forwards, with fracture of the olecranon could be met with by Malgaigne. One was observed by M. Ph. Boyer. The subject of it had fallen upon the palm of the hand, from a height of 45 feet. Posteriorly the olecranon could be felt between the condyles, moveable transversely, while in front the head of the radius and the point of the coronoid process could be felt raising the brachialis anticus and biceps, a finger's breadth above the level of the condyles. The reduction was easily effected, but as soon as the limb was left to itself, the displace- ment recurred. The patient died shortly from other injuries, and the autopsy displayed a fracture of the base of the olecranon, leading obliquely down- wards and backwards, with the radius and ulna carried forwards, and mounting upwards half an inch above the humeral condyles. A preparation of this injury remaining imreduced, is preserved in the Dupuytren Museum, and is de- scribed and figured by M. Malgaigne, PI. xxiv. The olecranon has united by bone to the ulna, not in a straight line, but forming a considerable angle backwards with the shaft. M. Velpeau met with a somewhat analogous case of eight years' standing, but without union of the olecranon, which was carried upwards two fingers' breadth above the lower end of the humerus. The radius and ulna were situated in front, resting upon the anterior surface of the humerus. This patient had, nevertheless, a tolerably useful arm. (See Malf/aiffjie, t. ii. p. 633.) The principal difficulty in the case under con- sideration, would be to maintain the bones in their proper situation after reduction. For this purpose, the most appropriate method would be to keep the limb in the straight position by the application of a splint to the anterior surface of the arm and fore- arm, as in ordinary fracture of the olecranon, with the addition of a compress to press the radius and ulna backwards, and keep them in their place.] [4. Dislocation of (he ttlna hachuiurds and the radius forwards.—An instance of this singular form of injury was met with by Mr. Bulley, of Reading, and is described by him in the Provincial Med. and Sury. Jotirn. June 1041. A man, aged 2!!, fell from a railway waggon, coming to the ground upon his hands. On examination, the ulna was found to be dislocated backwards, the coronoid pro- cess being lodged in the cavity for the olecranon ; while the radius, on the contrary, was dislocated forwards, above the point occupied, in the normal condition, by the coronoid procoBS, thus crossing the ulna. The fore-arm was slightly flexed, anc[ every attempt to further flex or to extend it pro- duced severe pain. Slight extension sufliccd to reduce the ulna, but thu radius remained in front of the condyle, and prevented flexion of the limb. Pressure upon the radius reduced it in its turn, and 19 days afterwards the patient loft the Hospital, and was able to return to his duties. A very similar caso was observed, in the same year, by M. Michaux, and was also reduced with- out difiiculty, the ulna being first replaced and tlien the radius. A third has been recorded by M. de Mayer, but in this instance, in consequence of the swelling, the nature of the injury was not recog- nised till the fourteenth day, and reduction was then found to bo impossible. (See Malgaigne, p. 630.) Mr. Erichsen speaks of having witnessed two instances of this accident iit University College Hospital. {Science and Art of Surgery, p. 232.)] 5. Dislocation of the ulna backwards alone.—[Ac- cording to Sir A. Cooper, the ulna is sometimes thrown backwards upon the os humeri without being followed by the radius. The limb, he states, is then much deformed by the contortion inwards of the fore-arra and hand. The olecranon is un- duly prominent posteriorly. Extension of the arm is impracticable, and it cannot be bent to more than a right angle. The distinguishing marks of the accident are the projection of the ulna, and the twist of the fore-arm inwards. It is caused, says Sir A. Cooper, by a severe blow on the lower end of the ulna, by which it is pushed suddenly upwards and backwards. In a specimen of this injury in the museum of St. Thomas's Hospital, in which the dislocation had existed a long time without reduction, the coronoid process is thrown into the posterior fossa of the humerus; the olecra- non projects posteriorly; the radius rests upon the external condyle, and has formed a small socket for its head, in which it was able to roll. The coro- nary and oblique ligaments had been torn through, and also a small part of the interosseous ligament. According to MM. Nelaton and Malgaigne, the ulna and radius are not usually separated from each other in this dislocation, and the coronary ligament is not necessarily ruptured, but the ulna passes backwards and somewhat outwards behind the radius, and the radius executes a movement ot rotation upon the external condyle, which allows it to preserve its normal relation with the displaced ulna. The point of the olecranon is therefore ap- proximated to the epicondyle, but is situated at a considerably increased interval from the epitrochlea. The fore-arm is usually slightly flexed ; but it may be found completely extended, as in one case ob- served by M. Malgaigne. Pronation and supina- tion are performed without difficulty. M. Malgaigne believes this accident to be caused, not in the way suggested by Sir A. Cooper, but by a fall on the elbow or inner side of the fore-arm, impressing upon the ulna a movement of rotation inwards and backwards. It is the same force, he believes, which, when more powerfully exerted, carries the radius also backwards, and produces the complete dislocation. Sometimes, however, the ulna does not oc- cupy the position just described, but becomes displaced inwards, as well as backwards ; and when this is the case, its connexion with the radius must necessarily have been destroyed. In a case communicated to Mr. B. Cooper by Mr. Gossot, the coronoid process rested against the inner condyle ; and in another seen by M, Sddillot, the ulna projected on the inner side of the elbow, on the same level as the prominence of the epitrochlea. The accident, in Mr. Gossel's case, was supposed to have been caused by a fall on the outer side of the olecranon, when the arm was bent. (See Sir A. C'oopcr,OnDislocations, (^'C. ed.by,,/?. Cooper, 1842, p. 4.50.) The reduction may bo accomplished in the same way as in the dislocation of both bones