When the blister is raised, and it is not wished Y 2 to maintain a discharge from the blistered part, it is sufficient to make a puncture in the cuticle to let out the fluid; but, when the case requires a se- cretion of pus to he kept up, the surgeon must re- move the whole of the detached cuticle with a pair of scissors, and dress the excoriated surface in a particular manner. I'ractitioners nsed formerly to mix powder of cantlmrides with an ointment, and dress the part with this composition. But such a dressing not unfrequently occasioned very painful affections of the bladder, a scalding sensa- tion ill making water, and most afflicting strangu- ries. An inflammation of the bladder, ending fa- tally, Las been thus excited. These objections to the employment of salves containing cantharides, for dressing blistered sur- faces, led to the use of mezereon, euphorbinm, and other irritating substances, which, when incorpo- rated with ointment, form very proper compositions for keeping blisters open, without the inconveni- ence of irritating the bladder. The favourite application, however, for keeping open blisters, is the powder of savine, which was brought into notice by Mr. Crowther, in the first edition of his book on the White Swellinir. He was led to the trial of different escharotic appli- cations, in the form of ointment, in consequence of the minute attention which caustic issues demand; and, among other things, he was induced to try powdered savine, from observing its effects in the removal of warts. Some of the powder was first mixed with white cerate, and applied as a dressing to the part that had been blistered; but the oint- ment ran oft", leaving the powder dry upon the sore, and uo effect was produced. Mr. Crowther next inspissated a decoction of savine, and mixed the extract with the ointment, which succeeded better, for it produced a great and permanent dis charge. The following is the formula for nnguen- tiim sabina; in the Ph. Lend. 1!J51 : — p, Sahinm recenlis contusce lbs. CefcB Albie ^iij. Adijm Ibj. Mix the savine with the lard and wax melted to- gether, then press out through a linen cloth. On the use of the s.ivine ointment, immediatelv after the cuticle raised by the blister is removed It should be observed, says Mr. Crowther, that experience has proved the advantage of using the application lowered by a half, or two thirds, of the nnguentum cerse. An attention to this direction will produce less irritation and more discharge than if the savine ointment were used in its full strength. He found fomenting the part with flannel wrung out of warm water a more easy and pre- ferable way of keeping the blistered surface clean, and fit for the impression of the ointment, than scraping the part as has been directed by others. An occasional dressing of the nnguentuin resi.ue fiavEc he found very useful in rendering the sore ree from an appearance of slough, or rather, dense lymph, which is sometimes so firm in its texture 13 to bo separated by the probe with as much •eadinessas the cuticle is detached after blistcriiirr ft.8 the discharge diminishes, the strength of the uivme dressing should be proportionately increased, the nnguentum sabina;must be used, in a strouffer .r weaker degree, in proportion to the excitement .reduced on the patient's skin. Some require a reater stimulus than others for the promotion of the 'scharge, and this can only be man.iged by the sen- ations which the irritation of thcointmentoccasions BLOOD, ACIDITY OP, 323 Instead of keeping a blister open, it is frequently a judicious plan to renew the application of the eniplastrum cantliaridis, after healing up the vesi- cation first produced, and to continue in this man- ner a succession of blisters, at short intervals, as long as the circumstances of the case may demand. Where the skin is peculiariy irritable, and, par- ticularly in young children, where the emplastriim cantharidis sometimes acts so violently as to pro- duce sloughing, or in any cases where the plaster produces strangury and irritation of the urinary organs, I am informed that the inconvenience may be avoided, and the cuticle raised very well, if a piece of silk paper be interposed between the plaster and the integuments. Dr. A. T. Thomson recommends for the same purpose a piece of thin gauze, wet with vinegar, and applied smoothly and closely over the plaster. (Dispensa- tor^r, p, 717, cd. 2.) In applying blisters to infants," says Dr. Cura- ming, " we must take particular cnre not to allow them to remain on for more than three or four hours. When a blister is applied for a longer period, ex- cessive general irritation is apt to be induced ; and such IS tlie delicacy of the infant's skin, that the blistered parts not unfrequently become gangrenous. Under such circumstances, the death of the child has been sometimes the consequence. Though ve- sications may not have formed at the time when the blister IS removed, they generally take place after the application of the dressing. In some habits the blistered surface takes on an unhealthy action, and inns into eating and irritable ulcers, which are long in healing. In such cases, I have found an emol- lient poultice, when the inflammation is consider- able, and afterwards the black and yellow washes the most useful applicatioiis. In infants of an UTitable habit, it will sometimes be advisable to dilute the blistering plaster with an equal quantity of the emplastrum cera;.'-- (Dr. Cumming, in Tm„s. of Assoc. of Coll. of Physicians, Ireland, ■"ol. v. p. 55.) ./ ) , The nitrate of silver has been used for making blisters, as particulariy recommended by Mr. Hig- ginbottom. It causes less irritation, and its effects are more prompt than those of cantharides. It may also be used in persons in whom cantharides produce strangury. It excites a copious discharge without heat or pain after the first few hours, and the vesicated part heals about the fifth day, no ulceration having been occasioned. (See Hinnin. bniiom. Oh Nitrate of Silver, p. ICl.) [The acetum cantharidis is sometimes employed for producing rapid vesication. It may be con yeniently applied with a sponge, producing a blister in live or ten minutes. Where a slighter and more prolonged counter- irn ation is desired, Brown's cantliaridine tissue or ''S^T'''''''''""'^ ^'^"'^ I HLOOD ACIDITY OF..l_[An alkaline con- .tion of the liquor sanguinis being ossential to the (hnd.ty and to the circulation of the blood, the nio t mnple provisions have been made to preserve li s condition. ^ Acids absorbed or developed in e blood arc cither deslroyodby oxidation, asgenerallv iiappeiis witli the vegetable acids, or eliminated in a simple or neutralised state by the secreting organs ihcse operations of th^ vis vmlicalvi,^ vatur^ hi the healthy state of the blood, and in all ordinary cases, are more rapid than those which cniitribute