patient survived forty days, and another as long as a hundred and one days. The paralysis is not always immediate, but nmy appear at some con- siderable period after the accident, arising probably from effusion, or consecutive inflammation, rather than from immediate compression. In some of the cases which recovered, the acci- dent was produced by very slight violence ; thus in six it was caused by a sudden turn of the head for the purpose of looking round. The leading symptoms are, according to Boyer, an inclination of the head and rotation of the face to the opposite side ; inability to restore the neck to its proper position, and deviation towards the same side of tlie spinous processes above the seat of dislocation. To these signs may be added, says Malgaigne, the projection of th-e body of the vertebra forward-, re- cognisable by exploration from the pharynx. If these two latter signs are present, there is not much doubt about the nature of the injury ; in some of the cases of alleged recovery, however, the symp- toms are scarcely stated with sufficient accuracy to render it certain that a dislocation had really taken place. Boyer condemned any attempt at reduction, fearing that the mischief to the cord might be thereby increased. Several successful-cases, how- ever, are now recorded, and it does not appear that when the attemp-t was unsuccessful, any harm has resulted. Indeed, in several, the paralysis, -ivhich had been previously present, disappeared as soon as the bones were restored to their natural position. M. Malgaigne mentions, amongst these, two which ■were under liis own care, one a girl £et. 13, the other a man set. 3}. In these the reduction, he says, took place with an audible snap, and the neck at once resumed its proper position and liberty of movement. Both were perfectly well in a few days. The proper proceeding is, for the surgeon to place his knees upon the patient's shoulders to make counter-extension, to take the chin in his two hands in order to draw the head upwards first, then towards the side opposite to the dislocation, and the articular process being thus disengaged, to bring it into its place by a movement of rotation. Dislocations in which the upper part of the spine is displiiced bachvards are, as already stated, much less common than the displacement in the opposite direction. One case of complete dislocation back- iwards without any fracture, was met with in Haslar Hospital, and has been related by Mr. S. S. Stanley. The subject of the accident was a sailor, who lost his footing, and fell backwards on his head on the deck of bis ship. Paralysis ensued, and he died Jn two days. The dissection exposed a consider- able displacement backwards of the Sth from the :6th cervical vertebra. The body of the fifth pressed severely on the spinal cord, and rested on the lamina: and spinous process of the sixth ver- tebra. Further examination displayed complete %nky]osis of the cervical vertebra; from the atlas lown to the seat of the injury. (See Ed. Med.imA Surg.Jnur. vol. Ivi. 1R41, p. 401.) Three cases )f incomplete dislocation backwards, all terminating atally, are mentioned by M. Malgaigne ; who also ■elates two cases of supposed dislocation backwards, n which reduction was effected, and the patients ■ecovered. {Traile dcs Fracl. ^e. t. ii. p. 381.)] 4. Dislocations of the Dorsal and Lnmhar Vcr- klra.—The large surfaces with which these vertc- DISLOCATION. 5J3 bra: support each other; the number and thickness of their ligaments ; the strength of their muscles ; the little degree of motion which each vertebra naturally has ; and the vertical or slightly oblique direction of the articular processes, are generally supposed to make dislocations of the dorsal and lumbar ver- tebrae impossible, unless there be also a fracture of the above-mentioned processes. Thns, Sir Astley Cooper, in his very extensive experience, had never witnessed a separation of one vertebra from another through the intervertebral substance, without frac- ture of the articular processes ; or, if those processes remained unbroken, without a fracture through the -bodies of the vertebree. Rn-at declares, however, that even the lumbar and dorsal vertebrse may be dislocated. (Ari/iro- kalcologie, p. 71.) Sir G. Bell also describes a case of complete dislocation of the last dorsal from the first lumbar vertebra, with entire division of the spinal cord. A small portion of bone was broken off. {Oil Injuries oftJui Spine and Tliiuh-bone, p. 25, pi. 2, fig. 2 and 3.)- In three cases, recorded by Dupuytren, the intervertebral substance was lacerated, and the bodies of the vertebrae were uninjured ; but in two of them the spinous, transverse, and articular pro- cesses^ were broken off; while in the third, all these parts were not hurt, {Clin. C/iir. t. i. p. 395.) These cases can only result from immense violence. The symptoms would be, an irregularity in the disposition of th« spinous processes, reten- tion or incontinence of the urine and fa;ces, paralysis and a motionless state of the lower extremities, and other circumstances, the effects of the pressure or other injury to which the spinal marrow would be subjected. Similar symptoms may also arise when the spmal marrow has merely undergone a violent concussion, without any fracture or dislocation whatever ; and there is no doubt that many of the cases mentioned by authors as dislocations of the lumbar and' dorsal vertebra, have only been con- . cussions of the spinal marrow, or displacement with fracture. [M. Malgaigne enumerates thirteen cases of dis- location m the dorsal and lumbar regions, verified by post-mortem examination ; some of those above alluded to are included in the number. Thev appear to be most frequent in the lower part of the dorsal and upper part of the lumbar region. Thus of the thirteen : one was at the sixth dorsal ; one' at the ninth ; two at the tenth ; five at the twelfth • three at the first lumbar ; and one at the second' Out of ten, in which the direction of the displace- ment is recorded, in six the upper part of the column was dislocated forwards, in two backwards and in two laterally. The greater number were compli- cated with fracture of the body or iirocesses, varv- mg ,n extent ; but in three the dislocation seems to have been complete, although unaccompanied bv any fracture whatever. These latter, ftom their extreme rarity, seem deserving of notice. In one there was a complete dislocation forwards at the tenth dorsal vertebra, in such a manner that the inferior articular processes were in contact with the postenor surface of the body of the eleventh a d he spinal marrow was divided across. In a seco^ d the dislocation was at the sixth dorsal vertebra ho inferior articular processes of which were placed in front of those of the seventh. The spinal^„ was bent and compressed, but not otherwise altered in a third, the nuitli dorsal vertebra was displaced