, FRACTURE. AVI hm the capsular ligament, and the fragments not being displaced, but the lower wedged in the tipper. Ihen the circumstances of their becoming separated after a longer or shorter time, and of the tracture then being rendered manifest, he imputes to the fragments changing their situation with respect to one another, either in consequence of the weight of the body^ the action of the muscles, or the removal of some portion of the fragments themselves. I think, however, with Mr. R. W. Smith, that it is more frequently owing to the fibrous covering of the neck giving way after a certain time (see JDabl. Jour,,, of Med. Science, vol. VI. p. 213) ; and his observation seems well founded, that a sudden retraction, at a period more or less remote from the receipt of the injury, denotes a fracture within the capsule. The shortening and rotatory displacement of the limb, arising from the displacement of the fragments, then leave no doubt of the fracture, provided they are connected with no other cause than a fall a few days pre- viously. Sometimes, as Dupuytren adds, the two foregoing signs do not occur till fifty, sixty, or eighty days after the commencement of the treat- ment by rest and extension, owing to the callus having yielded to the contraction of the muscles or the weight of the trunk. Dupuytren further ex- plains, that the internal fragment may be wedged in the external one, directed either forwards or backwards; that, when it happens, the shortening of the limb is only to the extent that one frag-ment IS impelled into the other ; and that this may accoimt, in some cases, for the occasional inversion of the foot, which is an exception to what is usually noticed. (See Clin. CMr. t. ii. p. 97—100.) Another remark made by Dupuytren is perfectly correct, namelj', that, when there is displacement, the nature of the accident is easily made out; but that, when no displacement exists, a suspicion may be entertained of the fracture; yet there can be no certainty about it. When the shortening of the limb is only to the extent of a few lines, the discrimination of it from what is produced by the ascent of the pelvis from a contusion, is at- tended with difficulty; but the diagnosis is plainer if the retraction amounts to half an inch, an inch, or an inch and half, or two or three inches. The latter degrees of shortening rarely occur but consecutively, and when the patient has attempted to walk. _ {Dupmjtren, Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 103.) _ The dissections made by Dr. Colles led to the discovery, that sometimes the solution of continuity does not extend completely through the neck of the femur. (See DiiLlin Hospital Reports, vol. ii.) Three cases proving this fact are adduced ; a fact which at once explains the ability of some patients to walk directly after the injury, and the absence of all retraction of the limb. According to Mr. Amesbury, incomplete oblique fractures of the neck of the femur arc easily produced in the recently dead subject. {On Fractures of the Upper Third of the Thigh-hone, p. 3.) [See also on this subject, R. Adiuiis, on Abnormal Conditions of the Hip-joint, M ^'n ^'■J'^^^P^'^^^'- if Anatomy/ and Ph7jsiology. ■^Ir. R. W. Smith, however, expresses considerable aoubt as to the reality of a partial fracture of the ' „T "5 "'id l>as shown, by actual ex- am mtion of the specimens, that in some,at any rate, tlhut Tt ■'''T^^'''' tl'« "''-vix " complete, and the trochanter likewise broken.] A shortening of the limb almost always takes place; " the leg becomes," according to Sir Astlev Cooper, "in a case of fracture within the capsule from one to two inches and a half shorter than the ? connexion of the trochanter major with the head of the bone, by means of the cervix, being destroyed by the fracture, the trochanter is dmwn up by the muscles as high as the ligament will permit and consequently rests upon the edge ot the acetabulum, and upon the ilium above it!" LUn Dislocations, ^c. p. 117.) With respect to the degree of retraction specified by bir Astley Cooper as attendant on fracture of the neck of the femur within the capsular ligament. Its con-ectness is not admitted by some surgeons Mr. R. W. Smith, of Dublin, declares that it is completely opposed to the result of his experience- nor does he conceive it possible that the capsule ot the hip-joint could admit of displacement to the extent of two inches and a half without being ex- tensively torn; an occurrence very rare indeed- and It, as IS frequently the case, the fibrous reduplica- tions, which constitute the periosteum of the neck of the bone, remain entire, or nearly so, retraction may be almost completely prevented. In several instances of recent fracture of the neck of the femur within the capsule, Mr. Stanley found this to be the case. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. siii.) Mr. R. W. Smith refers also to the statements of iJoyer and Earle, in support of the same view; and he adds, "But when the fracture is external to the capsule, there is an opportunity for retraction oc- curring to its greatest degree : there is, in fact, nothing to prevent the full force of muscular action upon the lower fragment of the bone, while, at the same time, the upper is forced downwards by the weight of the body." (See DiMin Jonrn. of Med. Science, vol. vi. p. 207.) Mr. Smith excepts from this observation the case in which the upper fragment is driven into the cancellated texture of the lower, the ascent of which is not only prevented, but sometimes the restoration of the limb to its original length. Here the degree of shortening will be much less than what is usually the result of a fracture external to the capsule; and this relative position of the fi-ag- ments, Mr. Smith conceives, ought to be suspected whenever unusual difficulty is experienced in de- tecting crepitus, and extending the limb to its original length. [In the impacted variety of the extracapsular fracture, all the leading symptoms are mucl. less strongly marked than in an ordinary case. In- stances have even occurred in which the patient has raised himself from the ground after the fall which caused the fracture, and has walked a con- siderable distance, bearing his weight upon the injured limb. Such cases have probably not uii- frequently been mistaken for mere contusions of the hip, and great care may be required to dis- tinguish tliem. On close examination, however. some shortening and eversiou of the limb maj' usually be detected. In tiie extracapsular fracture, according to Mr. R. W. Smith, whose opinions are founded upon tiic examination of a large number of specimens, there is always a second fracture traversing some part of the trochanteric region of the femur, and separating either a portion or the whole of the greater trochanter, or the greater and lesser tro- chanter together. The extracapsular fracture, ho