36 perversion and disfigurement of every object, without the least painful sensation in the ej-e or head. The patient merely complains of a slight sensation of dull pressure at the bottom of the orbit, as if the eyeball were about to be forced from its socket, of which displacement, however, there is not yet the smallest appearance. In the very beginning of the disease, the pupil is already considerably dilated, and the pupillary edge of the motionless iris presents angles at several pomts,the pupil sometimes representing an irregular penta- gon, or hexagon. By degrees, though very slowly, a glaucomatous change of the vitreous himiour en- sues, and afterwards of the lens itself; the only species of glaucoma which Beer has ever noticed quite unattended with a varicose affection of the blood-vessels of the eye. At last the globe of the eye becomes perceptibly smaller than natural ; but a complete atrophy does not ensue. The morbid changes which Beer had himselt ascertained by dissection, consist in a real in- duration of the optic nerves, and an adhesion ot them to their sheaths, while within the skull these ash-coloured, gray, very much diminished nerves, presented no vestige of medullary structure even as far as their origin from the brain. On the contrary, the optic thalamus presented externally its natural appearance. The retina seemed to have lost its pulpy matter, was tough, not easily torn, and appeared to consist but of a vascular mem- brane In one example, although both eyes had been completely deprived of sight together Beer found only the retina and optic nerve of the lett side in this state of atrophy as far forwards as the point of union on the sella turcica. On the other hand, the optic nerve of the right eye was hard, without being in the least d^vindled, and was closelv adherent to its external coverings. Ante- riorlv to their decussation, nothing at all preterna- tural' in either nerve could be discerned. But the left corpus striatum was so indurated, that a very sharp, strong scalpel was required for its division thouo-h in colour and shape it was perfectly natural. On this side, also, the plexus chormdes was en- tirely wanting. In three amaurotic patients ot this kind, Beer found hydatids between the coverings of the optic nerve; and where such hydatids lay, the medullary matter seemed to have been dis- placed by their pressure. With the utmost care, he could not trace the ophthalmic ganglion. Raw also found on the optic nerve a large hy- datid, which had produced amaurosis. ^ f^UOs. Anat. liarior. Obs. 2.) In Mr. Heaviside s mu- seum there was a preparation of the optic nerve of an amaurotic eye, where a tumor of considerable bulk had grown from the neurilemma. (See War- drop's Essays on the Movhid Anatomy of the Human Eye, vol. ii. p. 157.) In this work are specified examples of various other morbid changes of the optic nerve, especially calculous concretions within it, the presence of a viscid, muddy, gray, fluid, in the thickened neurilemma, instead of pulp, -trophy of the nerve, &c. ' An instance is recorded by Haller {Ojmsc. Pathol Obs 0'^ P 17'3) i" which a calcareous mass was found betwixt the membrane of Ruysch and the vitreous humour. According to Beo.-, tlicre is ^ziwuifr:i.iia-Leo™^ capsule of the lens being at all affected. AMAUROSIS. Magcndie states, that he has seen the retina transformed into a fibrous membrane; though An- dral suspects that the change could not have hap- pened in the nervous expansion itself, but rather in the very fine cellular substance between it and the choroid coat. (Anat. Pathol, t. i. p. 2/2.)_ An osseous capsule also, sometimes produced within the eye, and usually regarded as an ossification of the retina, he offers good reasons for setting down as really an ossification of the cellular tissue between the retina and choroid tunic. (Op. et vol. cit. p. 297.) . . . Various other swellings in the orbit, as, for in- stance, encysted tumours, &c., may and must gra- dually produce complete amaurosis by their pressure upon the optic nerves and retina. Some of these cases are usually characterised by a protrusion of the eye from its socket. (See Exophthalmia.) Cases depending upon atrophy of the optic nerves are recorded by Dr. Monteith. (See Wallers Manual.) Mr. Langstaff has some interesting specimens of enlargement in front of the third ven- tricle, the parietes of which bulge so as to press upon the optic nerves, and thus to account for the amaurosis under which the patients laboured. In another instance, the macula lutea, which is naturally a yellow spot near the centre of the re- tina, was found black. {Mem. de la Societe Med. d'Emulation, an. 17i)8.) When amaurosis proceeds from disease o/ tlie skvll or brain, it usually attacks both eyes together, or at least one soon after the other, the blindness also commencing very slowly, with appearances as if every object looked at were perverted or dis- figured. However, there is no black cloud, but rather an obscurity or confusion of every object. The disease in this stage is also accompanied with frequent giddiness, ugly luminous spectra, and, for the most part, with aversion to light, uncommonly lively motions of the iris, a contracted pupil, angles in the upper and lower portions of the pupillary marn-in of the iris; an evident turgescence of the blood-vessels of the eye, gradually augmenting with most violent headache into actual cirsophthalraia; frequent convulsive motions of the eyes and eye- lids, and strabismus of one or both eyes, ending in a tnie deviation of one or both these organs from their natural positions. Under these symptoms, vision is afterwards entirely abolished; and tlie headache, though subject to remissions, grows so much worse, extending back to tlie spine, that the patient is often nearly frantic, and, indeed, alter a time, a destruction of the external senses happens, followed by that of the intellectual faculties, ihc first of the external senses which is lost is always the hearing, which infirmity is next followed by loss of the smell or taste, or both these _ senses lo- Kether; and then the memory and other intellectual powers decline. In this stage of the d.sorder, h^^^ eyeball not unfrequcntly protrudes from the oibit, a^a'hognomonic symptom, to which Beer attaches great iinportance, because it is an .nf.aiib e enter n ^f a diseased state of the bones of the °rbu of c narts which invest this cavUy, and of the optic i dura mater, in the sella tuixica n such cases complete mania now usually follows, and tins 's^u^'tirs'ln its most violent ^o™, ess the p - tient happen to be first carried oft bj para^jtic symptoms ; life, under these circumstances, never lasting any considerable time. The cause of botli these forms of amaurosis lies