"^^^ FRACTURE, ■way. {Dupmjtren, Annuaire Mad. C7dr. c/es Hopikuuv cle Paris, p. 15. 4to. Paris, 1819.) On the other hand, as the same distinguislied surgeon remarks, the fibula being principally designed as a support for the outside of the foot, it is par- ticularly when this function is to be executed and its lo\yer end has to make resistance to efforts made in that direction, that it is fractured ; and, if the lower part of the tibia be also sometimes broken by the same force, it is almost always consecutively, and not by the effect of a direct and simultaneous action upon the two bones, (p. ] 7.) The fibula maj', however, like the tibia, be broken by direct violence. Fractures of both Bones of the Leg. [Fractures of both bones may be caused either by direct or indirect violence. In the former case, as, for instance, when the wheel of a carriage passes over the limb, when it is kicked by a horse, or when a heavy substance such as a paving-stone falls against it, both bones are usually broken at the same level, and the fracture takes place at that part of the limb to which the force is applied; but in the fracture from indirect violence, as when a person falls from a height and the sole of the foot is the first part to reach the ground, the tibia usually gives way in its lower third, which is its weakest part, and the fibula, being unable to sustain the weight of the body thus suddenly thrown upon it, gives way consecutively, not always or necessarily at the same level, but in most cases several inches higher up. Sometimes, as M. Nelaton has re- marked, one bone is broken by direct and the other by indirect violence, as when the tibia is fractured by a blow, and the fibula is broken secondarily, on account of its not being able by itself to support the weight of the body. This is especially likely to happen if, after the fracture of the tibia, the patient makes an effort to walk, or struggles to prevent himself from falling.] The usual symptoms denoting a fracture of both bones of the leg, are a change in the direction and shape of the limb, pain, and incapability of walking, or bearing upon the limb, mobility of the fractured pieces, and a distinct crepitus. The fracture may be transverse or oblique. The first case is most common in children, and in adults, who meet with fracture of the tibia above the lower fourth of the bone. (See Sanson, in Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Pratiques, t. viii. p. 557.) In transverse fractures a longitudinal displace- ment cannot easily take place, on account of the considerable extent of the surfaces of bone ; but, in oblique fractures, the inferior fragments are al- most always drawn upwards by the action of the posterior muscles of the leg. The direction of the obliquity is in the ma- jority of cases from above downwards, and from without inwards, the end of the upper fragment mostly projecting and presenting itself under the skin at the front and inner part of the leg. Some- times, however, when tlie solution of continuity is obliquely downward and outward, the anterior pro- .lection will be produced by the lower piece. In both kmds of displacement, the pointed ends of the bones may tear and penetrate the integuments, ana cause a compound fracture. An angular displacement m.ay be produced either by the action of the posterior muscles of the «>o, or the weight of the font, and, in boili cases the angle projects forwards. But it may be di- rected posteriorly if the heel be too much raised A rotatory displacement, most commonly happening in the direction outwards, is produce.l by the in- clination of the foot ; but, if this be turned too much inwards, the rotatory displacement will be in that direction. Fractures near the knee are not very subject to displacement, on account of the thickness of the tibia at that part. When displacement does occur the upper piece is usually tilted forwards, under the influence of the extensor muscles of the knee- joint. Fractures near the knee are more dangerous than those of the middle of the bone, because often followed by inflammation of the knee-joint. Frac- tures close to the ankle are also severe accidents. Oblique fractures are more difficult of manage- ment than transverse, and, when the displacement IS considerable, the integuments are in danger of being torn by the projecting points of the superior portion of the tibia. To bad compound fractures of the leg most of the observations already delivered on compound fractures in general, are applicable. Treatmeiit of Fractures of both Bones oftlie Leg. —As in cases of fractured thighs, the practitioner may adopt either a bent or a straiglit position of the Hmb : in this country, surgeons mostly follow Pott's advice, and select the first one. A few, however, are advocates for the extended position' and amongst them Dr. Houston deserves to be particularly noticed, on account of the ingenuity of his arguments, the novelty of his views re- specting the causes of spasmodic action of the muscles in these cases, and the facts which he brings forward. (See Dublin J own. of Med. Science, vol. viii.) But, notwithstanding his ob- jections to the bent position, experience has taught me that it is, generally speaking, the most advan- tageous for a broken leg. The strong muscles of the calf are the powers which tend to displace the ends of the fracture, and their' relaxation is a thing of the first importance. It is quite different m the thigh, where the muscles are so numerous that the attempt to rehix, by any position of the limb, all such as have the power of displacing the fragments, would be in vain. I am ready to ac-' knowledge, however, that, in Pott's method, the apparatus is defective, inasmuch as it does not keep the knee-joint from moving; yet it is cer- tain that such motion has not so injurious an effect xipon fractures of the leg as it has -.ipon those of the thigh. When the case is complicated with a wound, which cannot be dressed in the bent posture of the limb without great disturb- ance of the fracture, the straight position ought unquestionably to be preferred. With respect to one of Pott's objections to this position, viz. that it makes the knee stiff for a long while afterwards, I suspect that we should not lay much stress upon the circumstance, because, as Boyer has correctly observed, it is always the joint situated below the fracture that is thus affected. In the fracture of both tibia and fibula (says Pott) the patient should lie on the injured side with his knee moderately bent; the thigh, body, and leg being in the same position as in the broken tliigh. If common splints be used, one should be placed underneath the leg, pxtcndiiig frm" above the knee to below the ankle, the foot being properly sup- ported by pillows, bolsters, &c.;aud another splint