DISLOCATION dislocations of the shoulder have been placed on record by various authors. The additional dissec- tions show endless deviations in the exact extent of the injury in each individual case ; but the main features of each are sufficiently explained by what has been already stated.] Incomplete Dislocation—dowmvards and for- tcanLi. — The principle was formerly inculcated, tiiat all dislocations of orbicular joints were com- ph'le ; but Sir Astley Cooper and Baron Dupuj'- tren proved that dislocations of the shoulder may be incomplete; and the latter makes a similar statement also with regard to dislocation of the hip. (Clin. Chir. t. iii. p. 104.) The head of tlie humerus bursts through the anterior part of the capsule, and, without entirely quitting the articular cavity, lies upon the outer side of the cora- coid process. [The symptoms are thus described by Sir A. Cooper : " The head of the bone is drawn forwards against the coracoid process ; there is a depression opposite the back of the shoulder joint, and the posterior half of the glenoid cavity is perceptible, from the advance of the head of the bone ; the axis of the arm is thrown inwards and forwards ; the inferior motions of the limb are still capable of being performed, but its elevation is prevented by the head of the humerus striking against the coracoid process; there is an evident protuberance formed by the head of the bone in its new situ- ation, which is felt readily to roll when the arm is rotated." The causes are probably much the same as those which produce the dislocation for- wards. (Oh Dislocations, ^c. edited hi) Branshy Cooper, p. 401.) The relation of the coracoid process to the glenoid cavity will scarcely permit the head of this bone to pass directly forwards, so as to rest, as is usually stated, against the outer side of the process, hut it probably always passes, as M. Malgaigne maintains, somewhat dowmvards as ■well. This position assigned to the head of the bone by M. Malgaigne is in accordance with the description given by Sir A. Cooper of one of the cases which he observed, for he speaks of the head of the humerus as resting agai?isi and under the coracoid process, which was with difficulty felt above and to its inner side. (Loc. cit. p. 401.) Mr. South, some years since, published an ac- count of a case of incomplete dislocation forwards, combined with fracture of the coracoid process, and he believed that it was not possible for the acci- dent to happen excepting this process were fractured at the same time. {Alcd. Cliir. Trans, vol. xxii. H).39, p. 100.) This opinion may be correct, as far as regards a dislocation directly forwards against the outer side of the process ; there are, however, several well authenticated cases on record of incomplete dislocation dotonicards and forwards, in which the nature of the displacement has been proved by post-mortem inspection. (See Sir A. Cooper, p. 401, and Mahiaicjtic, p. 494.) In three instances of old dislocation referred to by the latter author, the head of the humerus had become deeply grooved by pressure against the anterior burder of the glenoid cavity.] [Dislocation iqnvards — Supra-coracoid. — Tlie "ollowing case came under M. Maigaigne's obser- /ation :—A man, act. OfJ, was thrown out of a /■ehicle, and fell upon his shoulder, his arm being Dressed against Ills side, lie was not seen by M. Malgaigne till two months and a half after the accident. The head of the humerus was found to be dislocated forwards and upwards, above the coraco-acromial ligament, corresponding extern- ally with the internal border of the acromion, covering internally the coracoid process, reaching upwards to the lower surface of the clavicle, and ■ raising the deltoid so much that a pin inserted perpendicularly over the most prominent part showed that it was only covered by soft parts to the depth of about a third of an inch, while more internally it had separated the deltoid and pectoral muscles, and was even still nearer to the surface. The arm was shortened about a quarter of an inch. Reduction was attempted with the pulleys, but without success. M. Malgaigne thought then of dividing subcutaneously the coraco-acromial ligament, which seemed to oppose the reduction, but on reflection thought it better to abstain from doing so. The dislocation, therefore, remained unreduced. {Traitedes Fract. Sfc. vol. ii. p. 530.) A very similar accident, combined, however, with fracture of the coracoid process, was under Mr. Tatum's care in St. George's Hospital. The case has been described by Mr. T. Holmes. The patient fell from a considerable height upon a heap of stones, striking the head, left side of the chest, and left elbow. The elbow joint was laid open, and the upper end of the ulna broken into numerous pieces. There was a large rounded prominence in front of the outer part of the clavicle. There was crepitus on mov- ing the arm, which was shortened, and the elbow was directed away from the side. Mr Tatum came to the conclusion that ihe head of the bone was dislocated, and that the crepitus arose from fracture of the coracoid process, but in conse- quence of the dangerous condition of the patient from the injury to the head, no attempts at reduc- tion were made. He died a fortnight after the accident. In the dissection, the head of the humerus was found immediately under the skin, havin<r passed through the fibres of the deltoid, and hav- ing the cephalic vein on its inner side. It had iiactured the coracoid process in its passage upwards, and was resting behind on the stump of this process, and on the clavicle. Internal to it was the fractured extremity of the coracoid process with tlie muscles attached to it. ' ' External and posterior to it was the acromion process separated from it by some fibres of the deltoid' Below and a little external to it was the glenoid cavity. The long head of the biceps remained attached to the scapula, and was situated below and external to, the head of the humerus The muscles attached to the greater tuberosity were torn through, but the subscapularis was int-ict The capsular ligament had been torn through at Its upper and inner part, forming a large hole for the passage of the head of the humerus. A case in many respects similar was under Mr I'rescott fewitt's care in St. George's Hospital, but in tins instance the state of the parts was not veri- fled by post-mortem inspection, as the dislocation was reduced and the patient rapidly recovered. (See Med. Clur. I'mns. vol. iii. lOSft, p. 447.)] [Partial Dislocation uptvards.—Acaie of partial dislocation of the humerus upwards, combined with a displacement of the tendon of the biceps form Its groove, has been recorded by Mr Jolin Soden, jiin. (See Med. CIdr. Trans, vol", xxv.