CINCHONA. 4(5£ aiouiul is to be loosened by flat strokes of the knife, or by lateral iiicisiona, if necessary. (4) Repealed or parlial extirpation is called for when the cicatrix is so broad that it would be im- possible to bring together the wounded edges left after excising it. In this case an elliptical portion is first excised from the centre of the cicatrix and the edges united. Some weeks or months after the healing of this wound another piece is ex- cised, and this is continued until the whole cica- trix has been removed and the edges of sound skin surrounding it have been brouglit together. In cicatrices of very irregular form, it is sometimes necessary to excise intermediate portions of sound skin, in order to give a regular outline to the wound. _ These operations are much facilitated by loosening the surrounding integument. When a cicatrix is hypertrophied, or is the seat of morbid growths, or of obstinate ulceration, or is constantly giving way and breaking open from being kept on the stretch, it may be excised by one or other of the plans just described, or it may occasionally be necessary to amputate the part or limb on which the cicatrix is situated. When an operation is undertaken to correct the unnatural conditions of joints dependent on con- tracted cicatrices, the loosening of the surrounding tissues becomes an important part of the proceed- ing. For instance, when the elbow joint is fixed by cicatrices, two oblique incisions, commencing one on the outer and the other on the inner side of the upper arm, are carried down converging to the fore-arm, where both meet at an acute angle. While the arm is still bent, the middle of the pyramidal flap is on the upper part of the fore-arm; but after dissecting it up from apex to base, and extending the limb, the middle of tiie flap glides up on to the upper arm. The narrow part of the pointed wound of the fore-arm is now united by sutures, and the union higher up is assisted by making long lateral incisions through the skin two inches distant from the edge of the wound. The flap is then united in its new position, also by sutures. It does not materially affect the good result of the operation if it should not be possible to close up the wound entirely. In slighter cases of yielding and more extensible cicatrices, DiefFenbach speaks favourably of the following method :—Two incisions are made on the flexor side of the joint, an inch above and an inch below it, running half round the arm. The limb is then gradually stretched, and the unyielding cellular tissue cut through. The bridge lying be- tween the two incisions then retracts and forms the flexor fold of the joint, exactly covering the point from which granulations spring up and lead to new contraction, in cases where a cicatrix has been simply divided transversely. Simple dressing and an extending splint constitute the after treat- nient. After burns or wounds of the palm of the hand, when the contraction of cicatrices has led to close connection between one or more fingers and the palm, Langenbeck speaks very highly of the plan of first separating the fingers from the palm, and closing the wounded surface thus produced by loosening tlio skin on the sides of the fingers, and uniting the wounded edges on the palmar surface. Then the wound of the hand is closed by loosen- ing the sound skin up to the back of the hand, nnd drawing it over the wound of the p ilm. In' this way, Langenbeck says, he has cured complete adhesion of all the fingers with the palm, so that tiie movements of the fingers were completely restored. IV. Transplantation of integument from the neighbourhood or a distance is occasionally useful in cases where incision or excision are not alone sufficient to eflect the desired purpose. This is most frequently done aljout the neck, where, after division of the cicatrix and subjacent tissues, or the sterno-mastoid if necessary, until the head can be brought into its natural position, a large gap is left. Here a flap can be formed from the shoulder, and twisted to fill up the gap, being carefully united all round the edges by sutures. Several cases in which this method has proved very successful have been published by Mutter. When the lower lip has to be restored, operation being rendered necessary by the contraction of extensive cicatrices of the neck, the operation described by Mr.^ Teale {Medical Times and Gazette, June, 1857) is followed by excellent results, restoration being efi:ected by the gliding of lateral flaps formed of the cheek and everted lower lip. The upper lip and eyelids may be restored by analogous ope- rations. For further details on 'tliis subject see Plastic SuRGEnv, Lips, Evelid.s, Nose, &c.] T. Spencer Wells. BinLiOGRAPHY.—See 'Buv.-KS.—Dieffenbach, Ope- rative CInrurgie, Berlin, 1845. jl/?V«e)% Cases of De- formity from Burns, Pliiladelphia, 1813. CICUTA. See Conium. CINCHONA. As one of the designs of this dictionary is to embrace the subjects of a surgical pharraacopcBia, Peruvian bark, which is admini- stered in a great number of surgical cases, cannot be passed over in silence. Under particular circumstances, bark has un- doubtedly the quality of increasing the tone of the digestive organs ; and whenever the indication is to strengthen the system by nourishing food, and the appetite fails, this medicine may prove of the highest utility, provided it be given in moderate doses, and it be found to agree with the stomach and bowels. With respect to cases of mortification, in which this medicine has been very largely employed, it is most strongly indicated, when the sloughing ia not surrounded with active inflammation, when the patient is debilitated, and his stomach cannot take nutritions food. I liave always regarded the notion of giving bark, as a specific for gangrene as totally unfounded and absurd. I have watched its effects in such cases, and could never discern that it had any peculiar power of operating directly upon the parts which are distempered Whatever good it does, is by its improving the tone of the digestive organs, and makinn- them more capable of conveying nourishment, °and of course strength, into the constitution. Mortifications arising from mere cold, compres- sion, or constriction, generally cease upon removing the cause, and are, therefore, sddom proper cases lor proving the power of bark. However, there are two kinds of gangrene, where internal remedies have a fairer trial ; those are, a spreading gangrene from an mternal cause, and a spreading gangrene from violent external accidents, such as gunshot wounds, compound fractures, &c. Yet, even here we cannot judge of their ellect with absolute cer- tamty ; fin- sometime.'?, a mortitication from internal il U