30'0 BURNS. attempts to obtain a good cicatrix cause a danger- ous degree of suffering they should be abandoned. (See Clin. Chir. t. i. p. 489.) Position, by means of which a good cicatrix has been obtained, is recommended b}'' Dupuytren to be continued a month, six weeks, or even longer, after the cure. It is not only necessary to place the parts in the desirable position, but also to maintain it by means of a bandage, or apparatus. Thus, when the burn is situated on the anterior, posterior, or lateral part of the neck, the head is to be kept inclined in one direction or another, with straps or bands, fastened to a bandage on the body. When the burn is on some part of the wrist, Dupuytren used to put along the fore-arm on the side furthest from the injury, a pad of a certain thickness which de- scended to the joint without going beyond it. Over this he laid a splint of sufficient length to reach to the ends of the fingers, and then, availing himself of the vacancy between the hand and the splint, he kept the former inclined towards the latter with a few additional turns of the roller employed to fix the pad. When the burn involved the palm of the hand, or passed between the fingers, Dupiij'tren used to place the pad along the back of the fore-arm, car- pus, and metacarpus, and then a splint tenninating below in a hand board, and long enough to cover the whole hand, even when the fingers were ex- tended, and widely separated from one another. The hand board, at the points corresponding to the extremities of the fingers, had ten slits in it, intended for the reception of the ends of five pieces of tape, which formed so many nooses for the con- finement of the fingers. Or the hand board, in- stead of having fissures, was adapted to the shape of the hand, and furnished with prolongations for the fingers. In burns of the second and third degrees, Du- puytren found that adhesion of contiguous parts might be prevented by keeping them apart by the interposition of some extraneous body, moving them about, and passing a probe between them at every time of dressing them ; but that when the burn was of the fourth degree these means were not effectual. Thus he found it not enough to maintain the fingers separated and extended, but that it was essential to make more or less pressure directly on the point where the cicatrix began. This pressure was made by means of a long narrow compress, the middle of which was applied pre- cisely to the angle of the commissure of the fingers, while the two ends were carried over the front and back of the fore-arm, and there fastened. The same principle is applicable to other similar cases. When a burn of the fourth degree implicated the circumference of natural orifices, as those of the nostrils, vagina, mouth, &c., Dupuytren used to prevent the obliteration of such apertures with dossils of lint, tents, cannultB, prepared sponge, ivory tubes, &c. Attention to this indication seemed to him here as proper as in burns with ve- sication, or those of the third degree ; but, with these differences, 1. That they are even more rigorously indispensable. 2. That the diameter of the foreign bodies must .ilways exceed that of the orifice into which they are introduced. 3. That their use must be continued long after the cure, in order to resist the contractile tendency of the cicatrix. Amongst the means for fulfilling the indication under consideration, are straps of adhesive plaster. But Dupuytren correctly observes that though they are very efficient, when they are applied across an ulcer, in keeping its edges approximated, their action is but feeble when employed for maintaining them apart. Yet he admits that circumstances occur in which they are of service. Such are burns of the face, forehead, temples, scalp, &c.; where the parts cannot be operated upon by po- sition and other means. In burns of the fifth and sixth degrees, impli- cating the muscles and tendons, a chief object is to keep the limb or part in such a position as will leave after the cure the least inconvenience. In general, as Dupuytren remarks, the disorganisation is so considerable, that the preservation of the pa- tient's life, by promoting cicatrisation by every possible means, engages all the surgeon's attention, who has now no opportunity of thinking about the prevention of deformity, or the losses of func- tions resulting from it. (See Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 33—39.) [The means of remedying those deformities or losses of function produced by the contraction of cicatrices, will be fully treated under the head Cicatrix. The Constitutional Treatment of Burns necessarily depends upon the circumstances of each case, such as the age and strength of the patient, the extent of the burn, the period after the injury, &c. In the worst cases, where the surface is cold and the pulse low — the whole system de- pressed by the shock — the endeavour to excite re- action must be made; keeping the bodj' warm by flannel coverings, and giving some warm wine and water or brandy and water. Stimulants must be persevered with until the pulse rises and the surface of the body regains and maintains its natural tem- perature. But all cordials or stimulants must be used with caution. As soon as reaction takes place they must be discontinued, or the danger is incurred of increasing the inflammation in the great cavities, which is so apt to follow severe burns. Opium is a most useful agent when the patient suffers much, and may be used as soon as there is sufficient reaction to give him the capacity of suffering. A full dose may be administered at first to tranquillise the nervous system and procure sleep ; smaller doses being continued afterwards, combined with some diaphoretic, to allay the irrita- tive fever. In cases where there is much irritative fever, with a dry hot skin, furred tongue, thirst, quick pulse, and inflammatory redness around the bunit part, it is possible that in a strong plethoric person it might be advisable to have recourse to blood-, letting; but this should not be practised unless it be found impossible to control the symptoms by other means. In almost every case undue reac- tion may be controlled by a combination of opium and tartarised antimony, a mild purgative, if ne- cessarj', restricting the diet to light farinaceous food, giving diluents freely, imd applying some soothing fomentation to the burnt part. Fever of an asthenic type is far more frequently met with than inflammatory fever. This low fever is best treated by wine and opiates, mild nutritious diet, and the free use of demulcent drinks. Diarrhoea frequently sets in during the course of the fever of