According to Mr. Bowm.an, the ciliary muscle is also paralysod, and the adjusting power of the eye to vision at dirt'erent distances is impaired. A solution of atropine, the essential principle of helhidonna, is now often employed in preference to the extract. (See Atropia.)] BISTOURY. {BUloire, French.) Any small knife for surgical purposes, [linglish surgeons usually give the name of scalpel to the ordinary knife used in operalions, and distinguish by the term bUtoury a long narrow bladed knife, which is made either straight or curved, sharp or probe pointed.] BLADDER, INFLAMMATION OF. Cys- TlTis. [Inflammation of the bladder is rarely an idiopathic affection. It is met with occasionally in cases of gonorrhoea, but more frequently it is the result of the irritation produced by other diseases, as stone, stricture, enlarged prostate, &c. Infianima- tion of the bladder almost invariably originates in the mucous membrane, but it may extend from this to the muscular and peritoneal coverings, and may lead to suppuration, circurasciibed or diffused, m the walls of tlie bladder. In the great majority of cases, however, it is as an inflammation of the mucous lining that the surgeon has to deal with it, Its leadnig characteristic being an excessive mu- cous or muco-purnlent secretion ; although in severe and protracted cases, it may terminate in ulceration, or even gangrene. Inflammation of the bladder is usually described as being acute or chronic, but it may exist in every intermediate degree; while the acute may subside into the chronic, or the chronic be- come aggravated into the acute. Inflammation of the bladder, occurring primarily as an acute affection, is of rare occurrence. It is most fre- quently met with in cases of gonorrhoea, in which complaint the inflammation sometimes extends backwards along the urethra till it reaches the bladder. Under these circumstances, when the bladder becomes inflamed, the urethral discharge 18 usually remarkably diminished, or suppressed altogether; and hence the case has been regarded rather as a transference or metastasis of the in- flammation from the urethra to the bladder, than as an extension by continuity of surface. This ap- pears to be the opinion of Sir B. Brodie, who says : " VV here there is a sudden suppression of the dis- charge from the urethra, the metastasis takes place, sometimes to the testicle, sometimes to the prostate gland ; at other times, but less frequently, to the mucous membrane of the bladder." {On Dis. of the Urinary Or(/ans,e<l. 4, p. 104.)] How- ever this may be, when the bladder becomes in- flamed, The patient has a frequent desire to void his urine, with a sensation as if I/,ere rvere urine in the bladdcr^tvlmn there is really no urine in it ; a?id he strains to miike water wlu:n the bladder is empty. {Sir D. lirodie, op. cit. p. «2.) Desault's account of the symptoms is accurate. He siiys : "This form of the complaint makes its attack sud- denly, and may be known by the frequent desire to make water ; the acute pain in the region of the biMdder ; pain, which is increased by the efforts to maka. water, and which shoots up to the loins and along the urethra to the end of the glans- bv the frequency an.l hardness of the pulse, and other symptoms of fever; by the aggravation of the pain, when the iiypogastric region is pr.^ssed- hv the easy pns8;ige of a catheterinto the bladder- by BLADDER. 303 the acute pain which is excited by the instrument touching the inside of this organ; and by the red inflammatory colour of the urine." This is not properly, as Desault regarded it, a case of retention of urine, but rather of painful and frequent micturition, resulting from inflammation ; the bladder being so irritable as to be incapable of hearing even the smallest quantitv of urine within it. H ence Desault's theory, which led him to en- join the use of the catheter, was practically wrono- and hurtful, as the bladder is always emptying itself, and the instrument would only increase the inflammation. [The urine is mostly acid and high coloured ; blood in small quantities is frequently mixed with it. The secretion of mucus is considerably aug- mented, it forms a semi-transparent cloud at the bottom of the vessel, when the urine has been allowed to stand. The mucous deposit possesses more or less viscidity, but it is not characterised by that remarkable adhesiveness and tenacity which will be presently described as met with in chronic inflammation. At alater stage, thesecretion becomes more purulent; as this takes plac', the viscidity diminishes, and the semi-transparent appe.irance becomes altered to an opaque whitish yellow colour. Acute inflammation of the bladder is sometimes' caused by cantharides, not only when administered internally, but also when applied to the skin to produce vesication. A remarkable peculiarity which has been met with in inflammatiim of the bladder from this cause, is an albuminous exudation from the mucous membrane, resembling the fhlse mem- branes in croup. In a fatal case, examined by M Vidal de Cassis, the surfaceof the bladder was found lined with portions of membrane of this kind and of considerable thickness. The membrane beneath presented signs of intense inflammation. The alse membrane, says M. Nelaton, is passed with the unne, sometimes in fragments so small as to escape notice, sometimes in portions sufiiciently large o distend the urethra, and even to become impacted in the canal. (Nelaton, El de PaihnI Chir. t. V. p. 266, 18S8.) Inflammttion from tht cause IS usually rapid in its progress, and the symptoms are severe.] Acute inflammation of the bladder is to be counteracted by powerful antiphlogistic remedies- cupping on the loins ; the application of leeches to the perineum and hypogastric regions ; vene- section, if necessary ; the warm bath ; occasional doses of castor oil; opiate clysters ; fomentations on the alidomen ; and cold mucilaginous bever- ages. Saline medicines, with full doses of alkalies as the liquor potassre, or the carbonates of soda or potash, should be given three or four times daily to diminish, as much as possible, the irritatinir au'ili- ties of the urine. ° ^ "Sometimes," Sir B. Brodie remarks, "the unne retains Us acid quality, turning tie blue litmus paper red ; and the sediment which it de! |.08.ts 18 of a yellowish colour, having no adhesive quality, and bearing some degree of resemJlni L " P«s , and ni these cases, if I am not much mis' taken, the patient will derive benefit from the ise 0 n.eicury two grains of calomel, and halfaKiain "t opumi being administered twice or three times a claj' In other cases the urine is alkaline, turn- "ig the reddened litmus paper blue, and deposit- iiig n small quantity of tenacious adhesive niucus of a blown colour ; and, under these circumstances