1016 HOSPITAL GANGRENE, • "Seventh.—The localdisease attacks the cellular raerabi-ane principall}', and is readily propagated along it, laying bare the muscular, arterial, ner- vous, and other structures, which soon yield to its destructive properties. " Eighth.—The sloughing of the arteries is rarely attended by healthy inflammation, filling up their canals bj' fibrine, or by that gangrenous inflam- mation which attends on mortification from or- dinary causes, and alike obliterates their cavities. The separation of the dead parts is therefore ac- companied by haemorrhage, which in large arteries is usually fatal. " Ninth.—The operation of placing a ligature on the artery at a distance, or near the seat of mis- chief, does not succeed, from the incision being soon attacked with disease, unless it has been arrested in the individual part first afiected, and the patient has been separated from all others affected by it. " Tenth.—The local disease is to be arrested by the application of the actual or potential cautery. An iron heated red hot, or the mineral acids pure, or a solution of arsenic or of the chloride of zinc, or other caustic which shall penetrate the sloughing parts, and destroy a thin layer of the unaffected part beneath them. " Eleventh.—After the diseased parts have been destroyed by the actual or potential cautery, they cease in a great manner to be contagious, and the disease incurs less chance of being propagated to persons having open wounds or ulcerated surfaces. A number of wounded thus treated are less likely to disseminate the disease than one person in whom constitutional treatment alone has been tried. " Twelfth.—The pain and constitutional symp- toms occasioned by the disease, and considered as distinct from these symptoms which may be de- pendent on disease endemic in the country, are all relieved, and sometimes entirely removed, by the destruction of the diseased surface, which must, however, be carefully and accurately followed to whatever distance, and into whatever parts it may extend, if the salutary effect of the remedies is to be obtained. "Thirteenth.—On the separation of the sloughs, the ulcerated surfaces are to be treated according to the ordinary principles of surgery. They cease to eliminate the contagious principle, and do not require a specific treatment. "Fourteenth.—The constitutional or febrile symp- toms, whenever or at whatever time they occur, are to be treated according to the nature of the fever they are supposed to represent, and especially by emetics, purgatives, and the early abstraction of blood if purely inflammatory, and by less vigorous means if the fever prevailing in the countrj' is of a different character. " Fifteenth.—The essential preventive remedies are separation, cleanliness, and exposure to the open air—the first steps towards that cure which cauterisation will afterwards in general accomplish. Dr. Maclood (lYotes on the Surgery of (lie Crimean War, London, 1858) says " that hospital gangrene was not common in the East ; during the first win- ter it prevailed a good deal in a mild form at Scutari, but it never became either general or severe. It did not appear to pass from bed to bed, but rose sporadically over the hospitals. It frequently at- tacked the openings both of entrance and exit, but occasionally seized on one only, 8liowing,apparently, a predilection for the wound of exit. At times it showed itself only in part of a wound, and spread in one direction alone. It was never severe, and was invariably, as far as I saw, of the variety de- signated " ulcerous" by Delpech, and "phageda;na gangrtenosa " by Boggle. In many cases, the best designation for it, as it appeared with us, would have been the old one, "putrid degeneration." The earliest symptoms were pain in the part, which sometimes preceded the ulcerative process by a couple of days. The edges of the wound did not swell up, but remained as they were, undermined. The pain generally continued during the process of destruction." " I never saw any marked gastric disturbance attend it. If it attacked the wounds of those already labouring under fever, it appeared to aggravate the fever." " The abominable state of the barrack hospital at Scutari, even during its early occupation, may well have caused an outbreak of hospital gangrene among the broken down men who lay so thickly aroimd the doors of the offensive latrines; but I cannot say that I noticed any greater tendency to its appearance at these places than in any other portion of the hospital." " Nitric acid applied locallj', and the exhibition of the tincture of the muriate of iron internally, in half-drachm doses, three times dailj% proved to be the most efficacious means of stopping it as it ap- peared in our hospitals. The local nature of the complaint was universally recognised, and local measures relied on for its relief. The application of the escharotic, not only to the edges of the sore, but also to the healthy tissues at a little distance round the margin, seemed by far the best means of employing the remedy. A barrier of lymph appeared to be thus thrown up around, which pre- vented the spread of the peculiar inflammatory or destructive action in the skin and cellular tissue, to which it was always confined. The attendant fever was uncertain in its development; some- times it preceded, sometimes it accompanied, some- times it followed the local outbreak." " Often," con- tinues Dr. Macleod, " there was little, if any. The most generous diet, stimulants, and fresh air, were of the greatest service. The disease often appeared to be a ' child of the typhus,' or of diarrhoea, or scurvy, and to depend more on lowered general health, than on specific causes. The introduction of disinfectants into militarj' practice is said to have done much good." " The French," says Dr. Macleod, " suffered from hospital gangrene in its worst form, both in the Crimea and in their hospitals on the Bosphorus. No fewer than sixty bodies were thrown overboard from the Euphrates transport, from this cause, dur- ing the thirty-eight hours' passage from the camp to Constantinople. The actual cautery was the thief remedy and was often used with success : the per- chloride of iron, charcoal, tincture of iodine and lemon juice were adjuvants. The author of the elaborate '■'■Medical and Snr- qical History of the British A rmy, which served in 'Turkey and the Crimea, during the ^Yar against Russia in the years 18,54, 185,i, UbQ, presented to both Ilonses'of J'ar/iamenl, by Command of Her Majesty, J858," describes the phenomena as fol- lows (p. 274) : " In healthy suppurating sores, even in clean cut wounds made by the surgeon s knife, imhealthy action was sometimes set up,