HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. whilst in other cases the duration of the disease is protracted for an indefinite period, and the patient may even be cut off by some other affection; but this is by no means common. Inflammation with suppuration in the general arachnoid cavity, ex- tending over both hemispheres or limited to one side, is sometimes the immediate cause of death. A total absence of any general symptoms is occasion- ally remarked, notwithstanding the rapid advance of the fungus, until some topical application is made to arrest its growth, when hemiplegia and stupor give evidence that the brain is influenced by the pressure, and if this be remitted the func- tions of the organ are restored. In such cases the organic functions proceed with tolerable regularity the appetite continues good, and the bowels re gular, and the intellect is unimpaired. Morbid Analomy.—The extreme rapidity of growth in hernia cerebri at once suggests to us the idea of its high organisation; and its abundant vascular supply is apparent from the quickness with which it is reproduced after excision, and in the almost absolute impossibility to restrain it by the application of pressure or by egcharotics. All this is easily explained from its connection with the encephalon, one of the most highly organised tissues in the body. It is usually believed that the fungoid growth is true cerebral matter; at least this may be fairly inferred from the writings of Lawrence, Hennen, Eoux, Stanley, &c., and that the mass, at the commencement, consists of either cineritious or medullary matter, or a mixture of both, as in some cases the distinctive characters of these two substances can be recognised when care- ful examination is made of a recent section of the tumor. The first protrusions are said to be made up of true cerebral matter, mixed frequently with clots of blood; but when the growth has con- tinued for any time the mass appears to have undergone considerable solidification, and to have become converted into a product approximating in character to fungus in any other part, containing, however, traces of a substance like brain inter- spersed with a fibro-cellular tissue; its supply of blood is entirely derived from the blood-vessels of the brain. To ascertain the true nature and source of the disease, the examination ought to be extended below the depth of the tumor and its apparent origin, and in many instances there will be found at the root of the tumor clots of effused blood, or an abscess, or a large quantity of serum in the cor- responding lateral ventricle; in other cases softening of the subjacent brain will be discovered. Blood- vessels can generally be distinctly seen passing into the tumor along the peduncle whicli traverses the opening in the bone. In one case detailed by Mr. Maliett {Transactions of Prov. Med. andSury. Assoc., 1839) a serous cyst lined by a delicate glis- tening membrane was found in the centre of the tumor. Dr. Thompson, in reference to the morbid ana tomy of fungus cerebri, says: " I am inclined to Delieve that they are the consequence of a con- tusion of the substance of the brain and its mem- branes, which gives rise to the formation of a new t^e S ,e™itf''r'^" T' '™P''^ P'-otrusions of ornin resulting from the removal of tlie natural resistance which is made to them by the' dura mater and cranium." We have recently witnessed the development of a cyst containing two or three drachms of se- rum and a small quantity of pus in a case of fun- gus cerebri which had completely cicatrised. Some symptoms of constitutional irritation preceded a remarkable enlargement of the tumor, which became excessively tense. It was necessary to puncture the tumor, which presented evident fluc- tuation, and the patient was relieved for the time but he eventually died. ' In other cases the mass will be found made up almost entirely of coagulated blood effused from the substance of the brain beneath the pia mater which, in a case related by Abernethy, attained the size of a lien's egg, and came evidently from the brain an inch beneath its surface, and when cut into resembled a clot of blood. Pathology.~T:hs disease cannot occur without the destruction or loss of a portion of the natural support of the brain; and hence this has been con- sidered as the most common cause of the disease But the inference is notnecessarily just, for if such were tlie case, the protrusion, as Mr. Stanley re- marks, ought invariably to follow an openino- in the skull; but this is by no means the case." It 18, however, somewhat remarkable that the disease did generally happen in cases where the trephine had been applied at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. But It must be remembered that in most of these cases the brain has suffered an amount of injury causing symptoms of pressure, and thus demandin<' the removal of the bone. ° Without denying that the simple removal of the bone is the occasional cause of fundus cere- bri, we nevertheless do not consider it as result- ing solely from want of due support. We should rather attribute it, when arising without any mis- chief to the brain itself, to the irritation, first to the dura mater, and afterwards to the brain, from the constant impulsion of these highly organised structures against the sharp edge of the bone. The older surgeons were alive to this source of irrita- tion, and directed that after the use of the trephine the edge of the inner table of the skull should be rounded off, Velpeau has fully entered into the consideration of this point in his able memoir Sur I'Opcraiion dii Trepan, and judiciously remarks that the disease is due to the expansion and swelling of the brain under states of excitement. lie says that it occurs less frequently wlien the trephine has been ap- plied over a coagulum, as then the expansibility of the organ lias been injured by the pressure, 'lie considers tlie probability of the occurrence of this disease after trephining to be in the inverse ratio of the dimensions of the aperture in the skull, and that the brain is much more likely to remain in sicii where the opening of the cranium is extensive, tlian where a single perforation has been made. He draws from this an important practical deduc- tion, to which we shall revert in speaking of the treatment of the disease. Flourens, in his memoir on the trephine, remarks that hernia cerebri fre- ,|Uently succeeds the removal of bone, and that the Inigest protrusions lake place when the brain itself IS wounded, and that, if the dura mater be unin- jured, the protrusion is of much less extent, This is amply corroborated by every day's experience, lie attributes the disease to the expansion of the