d of appl)'ing the ligature round the artery ; ause, if it bo intended to use a broad ligature, I h a cylindrical piece of linen interposed between md the artery, or especially if it be designed to ly two ligatures and divide the vessel in the ispace, more of the artery must be exposed, 1 of course more of the fascia must be cut, than hen it is simply meant to surround the vessel with II single small ligature. Such operators also as have contracted the pernicious habit of insulating the artery all round sufficiently far to let them thrust their fingers under it, will likewise require an extensive opening in the fascia. This detach- ment of the vessel for an inch or more, for the pur- pose of placing the finger under it, is a measure which deserves to be condemned in the strongest terms, as it is the very thing which produces some risk of injuring the saphena vein, and has a ten- dency to bring on secondary hemorrhage, inasmuch as it occasions unnecessary handling, stretching, and disturbance of the artery and surrounding parts, and an inevitable division of the vessels, by which the arterial coats are supplied with blood. I shall suppose the fascia has now been divided, under which the surgeon distinctly feels the pulsa- tions of the femoral artery, which is still invested by the cellular sheath. The femoral vein lies directly under this vessel, the nervus saphfenus major, runs for some way upon the sheath of the vessels, and then penetrates it so as to get into contact with the anterior and external side of the vessel in the middle third of the thigh, care should be taken not to include it in the ligature. The next object, therefore, is to pass a single ligature round the artery, without including, or in any manner meddling with, the subjacent femoral vein, or detaching and disturbing the artery. For this purpose, the best direction is that given by my friend Mr. Lawrence, especially when combined with Mr. Carmichael's plan of letting the needle be introduced on the pubic side of the artery. " After dissecting down to the artery, a slight scratch or incision may be made through the sheath close to the side of the vessel. Then, with a narrow aneurism needle, nearly pointed at the end, and made as thin at its edge as it can be without cutting, a single silk ligature is to be con- veyed round it, the point of the needle being kept in contact with the artery. A needle of this form makes its way easily through the cellular sub- stance, and the vessel is detached only in the track of the instrument." (See Med. C'/iir. Trans, vol.iv.) Dupuyrent and several other eminent French Burgeons first pass a bent director under the artery, and then, by means of an eye-probe, which is pushed along the groove, convey the ligature under the vessel. This is an eligible method, when it is particularly desirable to see, before the ligature is passed, that nothing is raised but the I'lrtery itself. Of the kind of ligature to be employed, I need only say here, that it should be a single one, com- posed of firm materials, in order to avoid the necessity for increasing its diameter more than would be desirable for reasons elsewhere con- sidered. (See Hemoihihaoe and Lioatuke.) The ligature having been put under the artery, one end of it is to be drawn completely through the track made for it by the needU-, wliich instru- ment is then to be taken away, leaving the ligature under the vessel. The ligature is now to be tied in a steady firm manner, but without any im- RISM. 187 moderate force, which can never be necessary even for the division of the inner coats of the vessel. In this part of the operation, a few prac- titioners give the preference to what is termed the surgeon's knot, and commend this plan of fastening the ligature ; a plan, which consists in putting the end of the cord twice through the noose, before the constriction is made. The only good of the surgeon's knot is, that it does not so readily slip and loosen as a common one ; but Scarpa thinks a simple knot best, as it does not, like the other, prevent the surgeon from calculating the force with which the artery is constricted. {On Aneurism,-^. 231, ed. 2.) A better reason against the surgeon's knot, is the irregularity with which a ligature in this form will lie round the vessel. A simple noose should therefore be first made and tightened, and then a second one, so as to form a common knot ; and now, as a matter of precaution against the possibility of the ligatures slipping and becoming loose, the surgeon, if he pleases, can tie the knot once again. One end of the ligature is next to be cut off near the knot ; and the sides of the wound are to be brought together with strips of adhesive plaster, or by the inter- rupted sutm-e. The remaining end of the ligature should always be brought out at the nearest point of the external wound to the knot on the artery. If by any accident the artery be pricked in the operation, a double ligature should be passed under the vessel, and one part of it tied above, the other below the puncture. Thus, Mr. Collis, in en- deavouring to separate the artery from the vein, " made a small opening, about the size of a pin's point, into the artery, from which a rapid jet of blood took place. The artery was immediately compressed against the os pubis, and a double liga- ture applied, one part of which was tied upon the highest exposed portion of the vessel, and the other upon the lowest, leaving between both about a quarter of an inch of the artery." (See Dublin .Journ. of Med. Science., vol. v. p. 31.) The case ended favourably, and illustrates what should be done under similar circumstances in other ope- rations for aneurisms. The manner of taking up the femoral artery in the middle third of the thigh, and in the groin, will be described under the head of Arteries. The effects which, in general immediately fol- low the operation are a total cessation of the pulsan tion of the aneurismal timior ; a manifest sinking and flaccidity of the swelling ; a diminution of pain in the seat of the disease ; and a strong vibration of the articular arteries round the knee. As Mr. Hodgson has remarked, the unusual influx of blood into the minute ramifications, when a main artery is suddenly rendered impervious, is generally attended with a remarkable increase in the tempe- rature of the limb. After tying the femoral artery for the cure of popliteal aneurism, the same phe- nomenon occurs, at least after a short time, during which the temperature of the leg and foot fre- <iucntly continues lower tluin that of the sound limb. But, in a few hours, it generally rises, and is sometimes several degrees higher than that of the opposite member. This state lasts several days, at the end of which time, the heat of the limb which luid been operated upon will be found to be about tlie same as that of other parts of the body. {Ilodi/son, On Diseases of Arlrries, cj-c. p. 35C.) It is only while the limb is colder than