and for a long period, T do not remember to have witnessed n single instance tending in the slightest degree to confirm this opinion." (See Middlemore, Oil Dis. oftkeEi/e, vol. ii. p. 77.) 7. Persons with incipient cataracts derive palliative aid from the use of convex glasses, becanse objects arc magnified by them ; but they only answer while the opacity is inconsiderable. 8. To such patients the flame of a candle seems to be enveloped in a whitish misty halo, which ahvaj-s becomes broader, the further the patient is from the light. "A candle or street lamp seems expanded into a large globe of weaker light; it looks, to use the phrase of a countryman at the Glasgow Eye Infirmary, as if every lamp was as big as a corn-sieve." (See Mackenzie, On Dis. of the Eye, p. 673.) When the cataract is far ad- vanced, the flame of the candle cannot be seen, and the patient can only indicate the place near which the light is, or say whether it is close, or at a distance. 9. A cataract which forms slowly, produces, in the course of its progress, no change in the mobility of the iris ; and if this eft'ect sometimes takes place when the disease is completely de- veloped, the nature of the case is now so manifest, : that no surgeon is in any danger of mistaking the complaint for amaurosis. The characteristic appearances of amaurosis are entirely different. ]. The change of colour occa sionally perceptible behind the pupil, is at a considerable distance from this opening, as may be best seen when the eye is viewed sideways. 2. The opacity is somewhat concave. 3. Its colour inclines rather to a greenish or reddish cast. 4. The decline of tlie eyesight is not at all in a ratio to the degree of opacity, for the patient may be almost blind, thougli there may be only a slight greenish discoloration of the pupil, very inadequate to account for the defect of vision. 5. The pupil is more or less dilated ; the iris sluggish or motionless, its pupillary edge not e.icactly circular, sometimes angular. 6. Even the cornea itself, is not quite so clear and transparent as in the natural state. 7. The temporary increase or diminution of blindness, so common in patients with incomplete amaurosis, never depends, as in those with cataracts, upon the degree of dilatation of the pupil, but upon causes which tend either to depress or excite the system, or upon the degree ofli^ht. In general, wliere vision begins to fail from diminished sensiljility of the retina, the patient courts a strong light, and when he attempts to read by candlelight, he brings the book as close as he can to tlie candle. His period of most dis- tinct vision is noonday, when objects are most brilliantly illuminated by the sun. This is the very time wlien the cataract patient sees worst. (See Mackenzie, On Jjis. of l/ic Eye, p. G73.) 8. The halo which amaurotic patients perceive around the flame of a candle is not like a whitish cloud, but has all the hueS of the rainbow: indeed, the flame itself presents these colours, and when the patient goes to some distance from it, it generally seems split, or the rays are scattered like those of a star. 9. At no period of the complaint arc spec- tacles of any service in enabling the patient to see better. In many cases, objects situated to one side cannot be seen more plainly than those which ' ire directly in front of the eye. But in some in- 'stnnces, where the sensibility of the retina is (beginning to diminish, or even where amaurosis is ' idvanccd, the patients see objects placed to one CATARACT, 417 side better than such as are directly before the eye. 10. The sight is not temporarily improved by the application of belladonna. [In doubtful cases, recourse may be had to the catoptric test of Purk- inje, in the following manner : The pupil of the diseased eye being dilated, the patient should be seated in a dark room in front of and somewhat lower than the observer, who holds a lighted taper in one hand, shading the light from his own eyes with the other. When a healthy eye has a candle thus held before it at the distance of a few inches, three reflected images of the flame are seen, one behind the other, the anterior and posterior being erect, the middle image inverted, and much smaller than the others. The anterior image is formed by the cornea, and is much the brightest. The middle image is formed by the posterior surface of the crystalline, the posterior image by the anterior surface. The posterior surface of the crystalline thus viewed, acts as a concave mirror giving rise to an inverted image, the focus of which is positive, and is situated within the crystalline. When the candle is moved, the erect images move in the same direction, the inverted in the opposite direction. In the diagnosis of incipient cataract and in- cipient amaurosis, this test is decisive ; for in simple amaurosis the three images are quite dis- tinct, while, in even the early stage of cataract, the inverted image is obscure, or even extinct. Our diagnosis may be still more assisted by the ophthalmoscope ; with its aid we are enabled to detect with certainty opacities, great or small, of the lens and capsule, and thus to decide very con- fideiitly upon the nature of the case. (See Jaerjer Ueilraga Pailiol. des Auges, taf. ii. and iii.)] For the difi:erence between cataract and glau- coma, see Glaucoma. The nature of the affection is sometimes eluci- dated by its history. Cataract forms without any uneasiness m the eye or head, or any disturbance of the health. Glaucoma and amaurosis are pre- ceded and accompanied by various uneasy sensa- tions, and functional disorder. (See ZrHi))-e«ce On Dis. o/ihe Eye, p. 399.) ' Unless the disease be well marked, a positive opmion on the existence of cataract should not be given without dilating the pupil with belladonna so as to bring the whole field of disease into view! "It is important also to observe the degree of celerity with which the pupil yields to the in- fluence of belladonna. If the retina is sound in half an hour the pupil is generally widely dilated • in an amaurotic eye there is often very little dila- tation at the end of twenty-four hours." (See Mackenzie, On Dis. of lha Eye, p. 077.) The extract of belladonna, dissolved in water to the consistence of cream, may be rubbed on the fore- head and eyebrow; or, a little more diluted, may be dropped into the eye. A still more elegant application is the solution of sulphate of atropine two grains to an ounce of water. In speakinV of the advantages of dilating the pupil with bella- donna, a writer remarks:—"This will enable us to detect the characters of the opaque lens, as regards Its colour, its consistence, and the seat and extent of .the opacity, much better than where wc have not this advantage ; and it will also assist us in ascertaining the true state of the retina ; and ns regards the iris, whether or not it has acquired any morbid adhesions, and, il' any, their nature EI-; '