ANEURISM. 153 0 aneurism of the aorta. At this period, the circu- lation in the limb had been re-established. I saw the limb after it had been injected, amongst Sir A. Cooper's anatomical preparations. Large and beautiful anastomoses existed round the pelvis, between the dilated branches of the internal iliac and femoral arteries. With respect to the sixth patient, the leg mortified, and the thigh was am- putated without success. The seventh died of he niorrhage, which took place on the fourteenth or fifteenth day after the operation." (ParaMe de la Chir. Angloise avec la Cliii: Frati^oise, p. '275, 276.) Sir Astley Cooper had tied the external iliac artery in nine cases (see Lancet, vol. ii. p. 44) ; and the operation is now so common, that scarcely a week passes without some record of its perform ance in one part of the world or another. The many facts exemplifying the propriety of this operation must have been highly gratifying to Mr. Abemethy, by whose judgment it was first suggested, and by whose enterprising hand it was • first performed. Mr. Abemethy was called upon on several occasions to take up the external iliac artery, and every one of these cases proved that the anas- : tomosing vessels were fully capable of conveying blood enough into the limb below, and that a ves- ■ sel even of this size could become permanently closed after being tied. Three of the operations in whieh Mr. Abemethy took up the external iliac artery, the very first examples of this practice, I was an eye-witness of, the cases having occurred at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, at the time when I was an articled student there. (See Abemethy's Surg, and Physiol. Essays, and Surgical Obs. 1804; I Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal for January, 1807.) In Mr. Abernethy's first operation, performed in 1796, an incision about three inches in length, I waa made through the integuments of the abdo- I men, in the direction of tlie artery, and thus the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle was laid bare. This was next divided from its connec- tion with Poupart's ligament, in the direction of the external wound, for the extent of about two inches. The margins of the internal oblique and transverse muscles being thus exposed, Mr. Aber- nethy introduced his fingers beneath them to protect the peritoneum, and then divided them. Next he pushed this membrane, with its contents, upwards and inwards, and took hold of the ex- ternal iliac artery with his finger and thumb. It now only remained to pass a ligature round the artery and tie it; but this required caution, on account of the contiguity of the vein to the artery. These Mr. A. separated with his finger, and intro- ducing a ligature under the artery with a common surgical needle, tied it about an inch and a half above Poupart's ligament. The following was the method which Mr. Abemethy adopted in the second instance of tying the external iliac artery. An incision, three inches in length, was made through the integuments of the abdomen, begin- ning a little above Poupart's ligament, and ex- tending upwards ; it was more than half an inch on tiie outside of the upper part of the abdominal ring, to avoid the epigastric artery. Hero I may remark, that as the epigastric artery ascends ob- liquely inwards between the fascia transvcrsalis and the peritoneimi, near the internal border of the inner ring, the usual distance between which and the abdominal ring is an inch and a half, the place chosen by Mr. Abernethy for the incision did not in reality leave the epigastric artery unex- posed to danger. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle was next divided in the direc- tion of the external wound. The lower pai t of the internal oblique muscle was thus uncovered ; and the finger being introduced below the infe-' rior margin of it and of the trausversalis muscle, they were divided with the crooked bistoury for about one inch and a half. Mr. Abernethy now introduced his finger beneath the bag of the peritoneum, and carried it upwards by the side of the psoas muscle, so as to touch the artery about two inches above Poupart's ligament. He took care to disturb the peritoneum as little as possible, detaching it to no greater extent than was requi- site to admit his two fingers to touch the vessel. The pulsations of the artery made it clearly dis- tinguishable, but Mr. Abernethy could not put his finger round it with facility. In order to be able to do so, he was obliged to make a slight incision on each side of it. Mr. A. now drew the artery gently down, so as to see it behind the peritoneum. By means of an eye-probe, two ligatures were con- veyed under the vessel; one of these was carried upwards as far as the artery had been detached, and the other downwards ; they were firml}' tied, and the vessel was divided in the interspace be- tween them. {Surg. Obsei-v. 1804.) Mr. Freer, of Birmingham, who rnay claim the honour of having seconded Mr. Abernethy in this new practice, made an incision about one inch and a half from the spine of the ilium, beginning about an inch above it, and extending it down" wards about three inches and a half, so as to form altogether an incision four inches and a half long, extending to the base of the tumor. The tendon of the external oblique being exposed, was care- fully opened, and also the external oblique, when the finger, being introduced between the perito- neum and trausversalis, served as a director for the crooked bistoury, which divided the muscle. Avoiding all unnecessary disturbance, Mr. Freer separated the peritoneum with his finger, till he could feel the artery beating, which was so firmly bound down that he could not get his finger under it without dividing its fascia. The vessel having been separated from the surrounding parts, a curved blunt needle, armed with a strong ligature, was put under it, and tied very tight, with the intention of dividing the internal coats of the vessel. The operation led to a perfect cure. {Freer, On Aneurism p. 83, 4to. 1807.) Mr. Tomlinson, of the same' town, was also an'early performer of the operation; he applied only one ligature, and, of course left the artery undivided ; the event was completely successful. The following is Sir Astley Cooper's mode of operating: A semilunar incision is made "thnnigh the integuments, in the direction of the fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. One extremity of this incision will be situated near the spine of the ilium, the other will terminate a li ttle above the inner margin of the abdominal ring. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle will be exposed, and is to be divided throughout tho extent and in the direction of tlie extenuil wound. The flap, which is thus formed, being raised, the' spermatic cord will be seen passing under the mar- gin of the internal oblique and transverse muscles