cut in it for the passage of the discliavge. (Mem. de C/iii: Mil. t. iii. p. 379.) This piece of liuciiis supported with ;i moderately tiglit roller. M. Roux, on his arrival in this country, wondered to see British surgeons so prejudiced in favour of union by the first intention, as to adopt it after all amputations. " C'est pareiUeineiU abuser da la re- unioit immediate que de I'appliyuer en toute drcon- utance d la plaie qui resulte de I'amputation den vieinbres. Jfentends purler de I'amputation dans la cuntinuile des memhres, et plus partioulicremeiit encore de Pantputation circulaire." (Parallele de la Chirurgie Anglaise aveo la C/tirurqie Franfaise, p. 1-28, 8vo. Paris, 1815.) But M. Roux has curiously omitted to e.xplain, in his book, what are the advantages of not bringing the edges of the wound together, and why ho calls prejudice the partiality to a method the superior efficacy of which is continually demonstrated in every hospital of London. He does not, indeed, presume to con- demn the practice altogether ; on the contrarj', he allows it to be proper in certain cases ; yet he con- tends that it ought to be confined within particular limits. (P. 130. See, also, Mem. et Obs. sur la Reunion immediate de la Plaie apres l'Ampiitatio7i, c5-c. 8vo. Paris, 1814.) In this tract, M. Roux proves most convincingly the benefits of union by the first intention, after amputation of the thigh by the circular incision ; but, strangely enough, his prejudices hinder him from advising the practice to be extended to other amputations. He does not positively condemn it in the arm, though he thinks the method less ne- cessary, because amputation there is less dangerous than in the thigh, &c. (P. 45.) To such futile reasoning is this author reduced by the unsound- ness of his doctrine. He also deems the attempt at union by the first intention counteriudicated, where limbs are amputated for injuries which yiolently contuse and crush the parts (p. 48), and where the limb is much wasted (p. 50). In the latter condition, however, he thinks Desault's flap amputation may be done, and an effort made to heal the wound by adhesion. In one case, he did this with success (p. 51). The opinions of Dupuytren on this subject lead him also to be an advocate for reform in the practice of aiminn- constantly at complete union by tlie first in- tention, after all amputations. He was for lai sage milieu. The facts and arguments, which form the basis of his precepts, will be noticed with the subject of union by the first intention in the article Wounds. Dubois has tried the plan with a success equal to that of the London surgeons. "The method is preferable," says Richerand, "to the old one, in whatever point of view it is considered. This union is more expeditious, a few days being suffi- cient for its completion. Besides the advantage of a quick cure, and such quickness is especially of great importance where the patient has been mucli reduced, so that he would hardly bo able to bear a long suppuration, union by the first intention has the recommendation of saving the patient from a great deal of pain, the flap of integuments witli which the bleeding surface of the stump is covered being much less irritating to the flesh than the softest charpic would be, &c.—Thieo years have elapsed since the publication of the tliird edition of this book. During this interval, I liavc pcrfonnod more than a hundred and fifty amputations, and AMPUTATION. 77 the utility of immediate union has been more and more proved to me." {NosograpUe Chirurq. p. 475, 477, ed. 4.) But, notwithstanding these and other encomiums on the practice, Richerand, like other French surgeons, is not an advocate for it in certain cases ; as, for instance, limbs shattered by gunshot woimds, or affected with hospital gangrene. Here he maintains that it hardly ever succeeds. (P. 478.) But, though it be true, that amputations after gun- shot wounds do not generally heal so well as many other cases, it cannot be denied that they do some- times unite more or less by the first intention ; and why should not the chance be taken ? It is pro- ductive of no danger ; there is nothing better to be tried ; and if it fail, what is the harm ? Why, the wound will then heal by suppuration and the granulating process, just as soon as if the hollow of the stump had been filled with charpie, or left open ; it will, in fact, heal in a way, which is less advantageous than union by the "first inten- tion, but which is the best which can now happen. The very cases which Richerand condemns as un- fit for union by the first intention, are those particu- larly specified as most favourable for it by Dupuy- tren (see Legons Orales, t. iv. p. 41.9); while Delpech is so convinced of the necessity of the perfect closure of the, wound, where hospital gangrene is prevailing, that in order to let this ob- ject be most completely fulfilled, he advises both ends of each ligature to be cut off close to the knot. From what has been said, it appears that the practice of healing the wound by the first intention, after amputation, is less general in France than it is in England ; a circumstance wliich may perhaps be explained by the fact of its being much newer to the French than to us. Every improvement must encounter for a time the opposition of preju- dice ; but one so important as that which we are considering must at length prevail and meet with universal adoption. The observations of MM Roux and Richerand tend to prove that they are not altogether unaware of its advantages, and tliey therefore recommend it for certain cases; but their backwardness to extend it to all amputations is little in favour of the comparison which they are so fond of making of French with English sur^^ery. Even the eminent Dupuytren had great apprehen- sions about lodgments of matter, if union by the first intention were completely attempted • and for the prevention of them, left the lower anirle of the wound open, sometimes placing a tent °in it and always the ends of all the ligatures twisted into one cord, as already explained. This cord of ligatures serves to conduct the dischame out of the unclosed angle of the wound, and abscesses in tlie deep part of the stump are prevented. A great portion ot the wound unites by the first intention • suppuration only takes place in tlie track of tho igatures, and, in general, as soon as these have been detached, it soon ceases. (See Legons Orales, t. However, that stumps may fall into a state in w nch the pressure of all posters and bam Les whatever should be most carefully av^ider and emollient poultices used, is a truth of which every surgeon of experience must be fully convinced. Ih.s happens whenever tho parts are affected with considerable tension, inllaunnation, and swellinn- or panilul acute abscesses. There is also no utility 111 keeping the edges of the wound very closely