ASPHYXIA, 29G is induced. And thus without instruments of any and Treatment of Asphy,via. Lond. 184 7. Mar- In the endeavour to resuscitate a person whose animation has been suspended by immersion, the wet clothes should be promptly reiuoved, and the body covered with blankets and placed on a table, with the head and chest raised; the nostrils and mouth are to be freed from froth, and kept per- fectly unobstructed. The lungs are then to be in- flated with the kind of bellows employed by the liumane Society, and provided with a short flexible tube, one end of which is adapted to the nozzle of the bellows, and the other to a silver tube, designed for introduction into the nostril. As the glottis is open, air, conveyed into one of the nostrils, while the other and the mouth are closed, and the larjnix is pressed toward the vertebras, so as to close the oesophagus, must necessarily pass into the lungs. The lungs being thus filled, are next to be emptied, by an assistant compressing the chest, and expelling the air. The same operations are to be repeated until natural respiration begins, or until this and other approved measures have been tried at least si-x hours. (Dr. Curri/, Obs. on Apparent Death, Sj^c.) When this method fails to fill the lungs with air, tracheotomy may be per- formed, but, in the opposite case, it is not necessary. As the body is insensible, there is, indeed, com- monly, little or no difficulty in passing any bent tube of moderate diameter and proper length into the glottis, when the tongue is drawn forwards, and tracheotomy, under these circumstance, cannot be needed. Thus, with an ordinary silver catheter, air may be blown into the lungs. Together with inflation of the lungs, gentle friction of the body with warm flannels or the hand, stimulating the nostrils with hartshorn, and injecting warm stimu- lating fluids into the stomach with a syringe and tube passed down the oasophagus, are plans generally recommended. Slight shocks of elec- tricity, or galvanism, through the heart and dia- phragm, may also be tried, if the apparatus be ready at hand. After the breathing has been restored, the patient is to be watched, lest he yet fall a sudden victim to a returning accumulation of black blood in the brain, or to the violent eflfects of reaction in the sj'steni. [The method of carrying on artificial respiration in asphyxia, recommended by Dr. Marshall Hall, has lately excited considerable attention. His in- structions are as follows :— " The patient is to be laid prone on his face. In tliis position the tongue falls forwards, drawing with it the epiglottis, and leaves the glottis open, while all fluids will flow from the fauces and mouth. In order that the face may not come in contact with the ground, the patient's wrist is to be carried upwards and placed under the forehead. " It will be perceived that the thorax and abdo- men will now be pressed by a force equal to the weight of the trunk. This pressure will induce expiration; and, additional pressure being now made on the posterior part of the thorax and ab- domen, the expiration will be more complete. " This latter pressure is to be then removed. Its removal will be followed by slight inspiration. The weight of the body is then to be removed from the thorax and abdomen, by gentljr turning it on the side anil, a little beyond, placing one hand under the shoulder, and the other under the hip of the side moved. In this manner a fair degree of nispiratioii kind, and with the hands alone, if not too late, we accomplish that respiration which is the sole, but sure eifectivo means of the elimination of the blood poison." These movements should be performed at the rate of a' out sixteen times in a minute, and not more, and gently and equably. The patient should be treated on tlie spot without the loss of a moment of time, in the open air, exposing the face and chest freely to the breeze, except in too cold weather. If there are sufficient assistants present, some of them may be directed to seize the limbs with their hands, and rub them with firm pressure upwards, but all other modes of procedure must be held as perfectly subsidiary to the one only remedy, prone and postural respiration. Dr. Marshall Hall deprecates the application of heat to the surface, and especially the warm bath, which is recommended in the instructions of the Royal Humane Society. The more rapidly the changes take place in the tissues of the body, the more carbonic acid will be generated in the blood; therefore anj' attempt to restore the circulation by the application of heat, before respiration is estab- lished, will only augment the mischief. (See Dr. M. Hall, On Prone and Postm-al Respiration in Drowning and other forms of Apncea or Suspended Respiration. London, 1857.)] The treatment of persons whose animation is suspended by strangidatiou should be conducted on the same principles as that of persons in a similar condition from submersion. Here, however, the fulness of the sinuses of the brain may render bleeding indispensable. In cases of asphyxia depending upon obstruction of the glottis, larynx, or trachea, by disease, foreign bodies, or tumors, tracheotomy or lar3'ngotomy, according to circumstances, is frequently the only means by which life can possibly be saved. (See Laryngotomy and Tracheotomy.) The treatment of asphyxia from carbonic acid gas, consists in removing the body immediately into the fresh pure air, sprinkling it with cold water, if its temperature be high, galvanising it, and endeavour- ing to restore the breathing, by blowing air down the glottis : oxygen gas, if at hand. Differences of opinion are entertained about the utilityof bleeding. (See Goudu-yn's Connection of Life with Respi- ration, Lond." 1788. A. Portal, Obs. sur/es Vupcurs Mephiliques sur Ics Noi/es, 4-0. 8vo. Paris, 1787. Also, Instructions sur Ic Truiiement des jVoi/cs, Paris, 1811. W. F. Edwards, De I'Influoicc des Ayeiis Physiques sur la Fie. 8vo. 1824. Bichaf, Recherches sw la Vie ct la Mort. 8vo. Paris. Da- bington, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. i. Coleman, On Natural and Suspended Respiration, ed. 2, 1802. James Curry, M.D., Obs- on Apparent Death from Drowning, 's^c. ed. 2. 8vo. 1815. P. M. Rogel, M.D. in Cyclop, of Pract. Medicine, art. Asphyxia. Reports of the Royal Humane Society. Afarc, De Moycns de Constater la Mort par Submersion. Paris, 1808. Orfilu, Secours a donnerau.v Personnes Empoisonnees on Asphyxices, ed. 3. Paris, 1825. ./. Leroy, Recherches Ea-pcr. sur I'Asphy.rie. 8vo. I'aris, iiiiS. P. A. Piorry, Nouv. Expcr. sur les Klfetsde VInsuj)lation de VAir dans les Poumons, <5-o. Journ. liebdom. de Med. t. iii. 1829. J. Phillips Kay Oil the Physiology, Pathology, ami Treatment of Asphy.via. Loudon, 1834. J-^- Ericlisen, Evperimental Inquiry into the Pathology