ANEURISM. avoided by the impossibility of tracing with the finger the lower boundary of the tumor, and the evidence of dullness on percussion, probably of im pulse, or of auscultatory evidence of aneurism bo low the level of the upper margin of the sternum or clavicle. When an aneurism springs from the posterior wall of the descending aorta, a pulsating tumor may gradually develop itself to one side of the spine, or under the scapula, commonly on the left side, which may attain an excessive development fully as large as the head.] The way in which aneurisms of the thoracic aorta prove fatal, is subject to considerable varietj-. These swellings do not always destroy the patient by hemorrhage : in numerous instances, the func- tions of the lungs, bronchi, heart, and oasophagus are so deranged by compression, that death is in- duced, and not a drop of blood is found internally effused. Frequently (to use the description of Mr. John Bell) before the awful and fatal hemor- rhage has had time to occur, the patient perishes of sufferings too great for nature to bear. The aneurismal tumor so fills the chest, oppresses tiie lungs, compresses the trachea, and curbs the course of the descending blood, that the system, with a poor circulation of ill-oxydated blood is quite exhausted. And thus, though the patient is saved from the most terrible scene of all, he EulFers great miseries ; he experiences in his chest severe pains, which he compares with the stabbing of knives ; terrible palpitations ; an awful sense of sinking within him; a sound within his breast, as if of the rushing of waters ; a continual sense of his condition ; sudden startiugs during the night ; fearful dreams and dangers of suffocation; until with sleepless nights, miserable thoughts by day, and the gradual decline of an ill-supported system, he grows weak, dropsical, and expires. {See Ana- iomyofthe Human Body,hij John Bell, vol. ii. edit. iii. p. 23-1, 235.) Cruveilhier relates the particulars of one very interesting case of aortic aneurism, where two swellings existed, one of which had pressed so strongly on the pneumo-gastric nerve, as entirely to have disorganised a portion of it. The patient suffered frequent syncopes, and died from general derangement of the pulmonic and gastric functions, and not from the rupture of the aneurism, which, however, if the patient had lived a little while longer, would have burst into the trachea, the mucous membrane of which was ul- cerated in more places than one. (See Cniveilldci; Anat. Pathol.) In this example the left subclavian vem had been rendered impervious by the pressure of the swelling. Mr. A. Burns saw two examples, in which the patients died instantaneously, though their aneu- rismal tumors were very small, and had not burst. Both these patients were in the early stage of preg- nancy. {On Diseases of the Heart, p. 230.) The situations in wliich aneurisms of the cur- vature of the aorta burst, are different in different cases. Sometimes the swelling bursts into tlie cavity of the chest, or that of the pericardium, and the patient drops suddenly down. The left cavity of the pleura is by far the most frequent iituation in which thoracic aneurisms of the aorta burst. {Lacnnc; On Dis. of the Chest, p. G77 ) fhey also frequently burst into the posterior modi- istinum. Tliey rarely, open into the cavity of the ■ight pleura. When the coats of the aorta give 221 way within the pericardium, where they only receive a slight external membranous covering, this is apt to be also ruptured at the same time, so as to bring on copious effusion of blood, which oppresses the action of the heart, and produces immediate death. In other examples, the blood is effused into the trachea, or bronchi ; and the patient, after violent coughing and ejections of blood from the mouth, expires. Sometimes, after the tumor has become closely adherent to the lungs, it bursts into the air-cells, through which the blood is widely diffused. An example of this termination of the disease was observed by Laen- nec ; who also saw another case, in which, if the patient had lived a little longer, the same occur- rence in all probability would have happened. Ehrhardt is not aware that this mode of rupture has been noticed by other writers. {De Aneuiys- mate Aorta!, p. 21, 4to. Lips. 1820.) Amongst the'most remarkable local effects of aneurisms of the aorta, are those on the vertebral column. They often destroy it to a very great depth. This is entirely the work of interstitial absorption, there never being any mark of suppu- ration. On the side next the vertebra;, the sac is completely destroyed, and the circulating blood is bounded by the naked bone. In certain cases, the swelling beats its way through the ribs ; even the spinal marrow maybe injured, and the patient suffers a species of death somewhat less violent and sudden. In one case of an enormous aneurism ot the abdominal aorta, reported in No. 259 of the Lancet, the left leg and thigh were much wasted, and quite paralytic. This seemed to arise, however from the pressure on the nerves of the lower extre- mity and not from injury of the medulla spinalis The preparation No. 623 in the Museum of the University College is an aneurism of the aorta which made its way through the ribs, destroying part of them and the lateral portion of the spine, so tself below the scapula, and burst into the trachea by an ulcerated opening near its bifurcation. I,, the Huntenan Collection is a large aneurism of the commencement of the descending aorta which caused the absorption of parts of several of the ribs and of the bodies of the fourth and fifth dorsal vertebra;, the aneurism forcing its way there into the spinal canal. (See Guthrie, On Dis of Arf p. 96.) ■ The effect of aneurism in producing absorption of the oiscous texture, while the intervertebral substance remains little or not at all injured ia noticed in the previous part of this article ' But although aneurisms in the chest do some- times protrude at the back, a circumstance th^t depends on tin; particular situation of the disea e Pdktan, Chmquc Chir. t. i. Obs. 7 TZ ) they more commonly rise towards the uppe; pari of the breast, where a throbbing tumo^ occurs which has caused an absorption of t e oppos parts of the ribs and sternum and cUslocated the clavicle. Coi-w'sant:;"; "in! stance in which an aneurism of the aorta h"d dislocated the sternal extremity of the clavi 'e and Duvcrney makes mention of a case in wl h' besides the displacement and injury of the cl.S' he sternum and scapula were partially destro S I attended a case with Dr. Pinckard, where a. aortic aiieurisn, had produced considerable dis- placement of the scapula. Guattani speaks ofTn