marks of injury in tlie brain sufficient to account for death, to use a common phrase; but it is im- possible to saj' wluit may have liappenod in those cases in which recovery has talcen place, and it is probable, as Sir B. Brodie suggests, that in these cases " there may be changes and alterations of structure which our senses are incapable of detect- ing." (A/rt/. Chii: Trans, vol. xiv. p. 337.) The visible effects of concussion of the brain as revealed to us by examination after death may be classed under the heads of contusion and lacera- tion. The capillaries of the brain, although possess- ing an independent diaphanous cell wall with cell nuclei disposed at intervals, are exceedingly deli- cate and easily ruptured, and hence it happens that, in persons dying from other causes after con- cussion, minute spots of extravasated blood have been frequently found disseminated throughout the brain tissue. This observation was made at nearly the same time by Dr. Bright, MM. Chas- saignac, Sanson, and Ne'laton, and no doubt is familiar to most surgeons. These minute extrava- sations have been found in parts of the brain near to and remote from the seat of the blow, and they have been met with in the cineritious and medul- lary tissues of the organ. That they are connected with the phenomena of concussion and are the pathological results of this condition, there can be little doubt, and it is obvious that they are iden- tical with what is commonly termed contusion of the brain. In the main we accede to the opinion expressed by MM. Ne'laton and Blandin, the former of whom remarks: " Now, if we bear in mind that the alteration we have just been describing is also constantly found in contusion of the brain may we not be justified in looking upon concus- sion as a slight degree of contusion ? We do not mean to say that these minute specks of extrava- sation must necessarily exist in every case of con- cussion. A contusion might rupture some of the nervous fibres without tearing any vessels; and then it must be borne in mind that we only have the opportunity of examining the morbid appear ances peculiar to concussion in the most severe cases. The slighter ones recover." ( HeivcU, loc, cit.) We do not participate in this belief that any laceration of nerve fibre can take place without corresponding rupture of the capillaries surround- ing it. The observation that visible signs of mischief are invariably found after death in fatal cases of concussion is confirmed by the experiments which have been made on animals by M. Fano, as cpioted by Ilowett (loc. cit.); and it is cu- rious to observe, as this siu'geon remarks, iiovv fre quently a blow on the top of the head led to extravasation of blood in the region of the me- dulla oblongata and the neighbouring parts, and it is still more remarkable that in most of these experiments there was no extravasation of blood at the seat of the blow. Wo add to those renuirks a brief description of two cases of concussion mentioned by Mr. Ilcwctt : they are interesting as showing the changes the brain )iad suffered! In those the genuine symptoms of concussion had passed off, death having occurred in one case from effusion of blood on the l)rain, in the other apparently from entirely adventitious circumstances. "A man fell out of a cart and struck his head. He felt giddy, but soon rallied and then romited. He took a little stimulant, HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. 911 was soon quite himself, and [proceeded for four hours about his business. He was suddenly seized with urgent symptoms of compression, and died within a few hours. An enormous extrava- sation was found between the bono and the dura mater. There was no blood witliin the arachnoid, but several patches of extravasated blood were found at the base of the brain in the sub-arachnoid tissues, and corresponding to these were patches of circumscribed contusion in the brain substance itself, marked by minute specks of blood closely clustered together: these patches were in two or three places of the size of a shilling, and extended in the structure of the brain about a line in depth." " A woman had received a slight concussion of the brain, the symptoms of which were compli- cated with those of intoxication. There was also a small scalp-wound, not exposing the bone, at the back of the head, and tlie outer malleolus was broken. The brain symptoms soon passed off. Erysipelas and diffuse cellular inflammation of the scalp supervened, but the patient was recovering from these when suppuration made its appearance in the ankle-joint: the foot mortified, and she died within eight days after the accident. In the cavity of the arachnoid were thin layers of extrava- sated blood, adhering to the parietal layer, corre- sponding to both hemispheres, and still retaining their colouring matter. No laceration could be detected in any part of the serous membrane, neither was there any extravasation of blood in the sub-arachnoid tissues. Tlie brain on its surface and in its substance was excessively congested. In the centrum ovale, close to the right side of the corpus callosum and extending into it, was an extravasation of blood the size of a nut. The clot still retained the greater part of its colouring mat- ter, but the structure around it was neither disco- loured nor softened." (Loc. cit.) The permanent effects of concussion are seen for the most part in the condition of the mind, which frequently remains enfeebled throughout the re- mainder of life, and especially in the impaired state of the memor}', as before remarked. A de- gree of irritability, to which the patient was before a stranger, remains in some instances a lasting effect of the mischief to the brain. An amaurotic state of either or both eyes, and tinnitus aurium and deafness, and loss of the sense of smell, are amongst the most common of the permanent con- sequences of severe concussion ; but it is most probable that these persistent signs of miscliief depend on actual laceration of some part of the cu- cephalon, and the latter may unquestionably bo the result of fracture of the base of the skull im- plicating the nerves independently of the brain. Vrognonis.—The prognosis-in simple concussion is favourable, death scarcely ever occurring witli- o>it laceration or bruising of the substance of the brain or the effusion of blood upon its surface. Tiio extent of injury does not generally bear a di- rect ratio to the violence of the blow or the height of the fall. Young subjects generally recover nuich more perfectly tlian old persons. These cir- cumstances admit of ready explanation. If severe concussion accompany a Inictin'e of the base of the skull, it is connnouly fatal, although the amount of actual mischief to the brain, as shown by slight extravasation or contusion, is trilling. In forming an opinion ns to the probable result, it is cape-