HEAD, INJURIES OP THE, effused fluid; this is manifested by hemiplegia, by loss of consciousness, coma more or less com- plete, stertorous breathing, and retention of urine and incontinence of faices; the skin is hot, tlie pupils, at first contracted, afterwards become di- lated, and the general febrile excitement tends to modify, if not to mask, the signs of pressure. In the treatment of compression from puru- lent deposit within the skull, after the full em- ployment of the ordinary antiphlogistic measures, the operation of the trephine to give exit to the fluid must be had recourse to; and if the matter be confined to the exterior of the dura mater, a favour- able result may be anticipated. When pressure arises from abscess it is pre- ceded by inflammation of the brain. Traumatic inflammation of this organ is usually attended by fever, accompanied by deep-seated pain in the head extending from the seat of injiu-y towards the forehead; there is extreme irritability, often followed by drowsiness and stupor. The countenance is flushed, the conjunctiva is injected; and the carotid arteries throb with unusual force, nausea or vomiting indicates the irritability of the stomach; the intellectual functions are materially disturbed, and the patient is restless, anxious, and often delirious; during his delirium, which assumes a low muttering character, he holds imaginary conversation with some friend on the subject of his customary avocations. There are marked ex- acerbations at night, which are calmed in the early morning. The symptoms increase in inten- sity; he is now furiously delirious, or he assumes a gaiety, or even a degree of comicality, quite im- usual with him; his skin is hot, and excessive thirst indicates the exalted sensibility of his stomach. Extreme restlessness, with frequent jactitation, fol- lowed by a sense of weight and numbness, is often succeeded bysubsultus tendinum. The bowels are costive, and the urine is scanty and high-coloured, and is often retained. In advanced stages of the disease the patient loses the power of articulation; he becomes completely prostrated, and his deli- rium gives way to profound stupor; he still occa- sionally directs his hand to his head, as it were, instinctively, and carries it gently over his face. Cold shiverings of variable duration occur. These are followed by rigid spasms of the head and neck, or of one extremity. Paralysis of the face, and loss of power over one or both limbs, clearly in- dicate now that suppuration has occurred, or that effusion has taken place into the arachnoid cavity, or that disorganisation of the brain has happened. The surface of the body is bedewed with cold sweat; the power of deglutition is gone, and the sinking pulse indicates approaching death. Such is the course of an attack of acute inflam- mation of the brain after concussion or other injury to the head. But the disease often assumes a more chronic form: thus slight indisposition, or general malaise, accompanied by pain in the head, ushers in the attack; the pain is of a dull, deep character, and is attended by great lassitude and irritability. The eyes are intolerant of light, and sound is painful to the ear. As the disease pro- ceeds, the intellect becomes disturbed, the loco- motive powers are enfeebled, and the patient as- sumes an unsteadiness in his gait, although he is not quite paralysed. To this, however, hemiplegia often succeeds; and if this is accompanied by decided attacks of shivering, it becomes a clear indication 923 of the formation of matter in the brain. The pulse, in this subacute or chronic form, is slightly accelerated, but is soft and compressible, and the tongue is at first white, but, as the disease ad- vances, becomes covered with a brownish crust. Under suitable treatment, inflammation of the brain may be arrested and completely cured. The treatment may be summed up under the fol- lowing heads, namely, free venesection, leeches, drastic purges, and mercury carefully administered so as to induce a slight salivation. Ice should be applied to the head, and low diet succeeded by mode- rate support enjoined ; but as the disease advances the patient is to be sustained by more generous diet and gentle stimuli, as ammonia and wine. In deci- dedly chronic inflammation, there is nothing equal in efiicacy to a prolonged and mild course of mer- cury, with small doses of iodide of potassium. The disease terminates often in gangrene and sup- puration, or in both combined. We have frequently seen gangrene of the cineritious substance in purulent infiltrations into the arachnoid cavity; it sometimes extends into the medullary substance: the part assumes a leaden or greenish aspect, and the foetor is most disgusting. There are no means of distinguishing this condition during life. When matter forms in the substance of the bram it may be infiltrated into the general tissue of the organ, or mixed with clots of blood as a consequence of laceration, or it may be contained m a distmctly circumscribed cyst, as in a common abscess ; the cerebral tissue is frequently softened around the abscess, and small bloody points of ex- travasation indicate the bruised state of the brain- the convolutions covering the abscess are generally flattened The matter itself ordinarily assumes a greemsh hue, is exceedingly fa;tid,and is often mixed with portions of cerebral substance in a state of gan- grene. The diagnosis of abscess in the brain after nijury is often extremely obscure, but may gene- rally be correctly formed by careful attention to the symptoms accompanying and succeeding an attack of mflammation : thus, if the usual signs of inflam- mation have been followed by distinct attacks of shivering fits at intervals of longer or shorter dura- tion, and if these are succeeded by stupor, convul- sions, and decided hemiplegia, the inference that suppuration has occurred may be fairly drawn. yuppuration of the brain may take place at almost any period after the accident, and exten- sive suppuration may occur without any rigors and without any appreciable paralysis: in this re- spect it can scarcely be said to cause pressure This renders the diagnosis difiicult. In cases of this description, after a long-continued attack of subacute inflammation, a low typhoid state may contmue, and after death a large abscess may be found occupying almost an entire hemisphere Gamma mentions a case of abscess in the richt hemisphere ; the disease lasted thirty-three davs and was unattended by either convulsions or para' lysis. Suppuration may occur and terminate ra- pidly after an acute attack of inflammation The f,. lowing is an instance of this. A young man who had received an injury to his head; from which he was recovering, was permitted to pet UD- ho indulged in copious draughts of beer, and was immediately seized with rigors and all the sifins of inflammation of the brain. He died within tvventy.four hours of the attack. The anterior mea ot both hemispheres were in n state of sup-