CANCER. 394 affection of the lymphatics or distant parts, would evidence in favour of the non-cancerousness of a tumor. Patches of enchondroma may, however, occur in the substance of cancerous tumors, as was the case in a specimen I recently examined. Fatty tumors can rarel}- be mistaken for cancer, but Dr. Bennett cites a case from Sedillot, in which a fatty growth assumed all the symptoms and signs of encephaloid, and was so pointed ont by a professor to his pupils. The patient not only presented the cachectic aspect, but all the local lancinating pains, the form, feel, and ap- pearance of an encephaloid growth ; yet the microscope showed the tumor to consist solely of adipose and filamentous tissue. Though the case certainly is remarkable, one can hardly think that it was one of ordinary fatty tunior, as it had returned after excision twice. To distinguish fibrous growths from scirrhous in their early stages, Dr. Bennett declares to be " utterly impossible." This of course applies to their condition in the living body; after removal a microscopic examination would in most cases readily decide, except where the cancer was of the rare iibrous variety. The presence of any of the peculiar cells or nuclei would of course distin- guish positively the malignant from the innocent growth. Harcomalous tumors constitute an ill-defined group which, it may be well conceived, are often not easily distinguished from cancer. Tiiey seem in some instances to be as it were undeveloped fibrous tumors, consisting of a jelly-like fibrine, containing fluid traversed by bands of fibrous tissue, which is scanty and imperfectly developed. This is the Collonema of Miiller. In proportion as the fibrous structure becomes more perfectly de- veloped they approach the common fibrous tumor. Cutaneous outgrowths and mucous polypi belong to the same class, as well as many ovarian tumors. The lobulated masses which grow into the interior of mammary cysts, till they sometimes fill them, are in some instances made up of nuclei imbedded in fibroid tissue, and not of imitative gland struc- ture. Such formations are well termed by Roki- tansky cysto-sarcomata. A tumor I examined from the region of the pectoralis major consisted of nuclei and lowly developed celloid corpuscles with much granular matter. Its exterior was lobulated much like a conglomerate gland, but less minutely ; in this respect, and in its colour, it resembled the pancreas, and might be considered a specimen of Abernethy's pancreatic-sarcoma. Lebert's fibro- plastic tumors are termed by himself sarcomatous, though I do not feel sure that this term applies to them all. The most distinctive features of sarcoma are that its vital actions are unlike those of cancer, and that it differs from fibrous tumors in yielding much proteine when boiled with liquor potassa3, and treated with acetic acid. Many of these tumors can be readily distinguished from cancer by tlic'se characters, and by the simple form of their cell growth (which resembles that of normally ex- isting organs), but others approach very close to the malignant groups, and perhaps are not to be separated by any absolute line. The interesting history recorded by Mr. Paget, at p. 2()0, 2G1 of his work, illustrates this well. He says, in con- clusion, " The main fact of all the cases is, that three daughters of a cancerous niotlier luid mam- mary tumors ; in two of them at least the structure was probably not cancerous ; and yet the rapid growth, the recurrences in one of them, and the de- fective or disordered modes of growth in both, were such as marked a wide deviation from the common rules of mammary, glandular, or any other ini.ocent tumor, and a deviation in the direction towards cancer." Adenoid tumors (chronic mammary) are dis- tinguished from cancer in the following particulars. They occur at an earlier period of life ; they not unfrequently disappear spontaneously ; they are commonly painless ; they do not contaminate the system ; they are easily moveable in the surround- ing tissue ; and if removed they do not return. Their structure is that of conglomerate glands, often resembling very exactly that of the mammarj'; so much so that M. Lebert seems to consider the tunior as the result of simple enlargement of the gland, and distension of its cavities with accumu- lated epithelium. By Velpeau and his able trans- lator, Mr. Henry, they are regarded as essentially new formations, and no doubt correctly. A capsule, which surrounds their surface, completes their un- likeness to cancer, and, as Mr. Paget suggests, pro- bably proceeds from the original cyst into which the growth advanced, and which it has filled. Myeloid tumors might be confounded with cancer of the bones, but the following list of their characters, as stated by Mr. Paget, will aid in diagnosis. They are usually single, occiu- most frequently in youth, and very rarely after middle age, grow slowly and painlessly in most cases, have no proneness to ulcerate or protrude, are not apt to recur after complete removal, and have not in general any features of malignant disease. Often they are of a peculiar dark ruddy colour, either in patches or throughout, and constantly they present as a structural characteristic large cells containing 2—10 nuclei ; these are mingled with fibre-forming cells or nuclei. The general conclusion in the matter of diagnosis I think must be ; (1) that the history of a growth, and naked-eye inspection of it, will in most cases enable the experienced man to predicate its cha- racter ; (2) that the microscope may often afford con- firmative, and sometimes corrective information ; (3) that the vital actions of a growth must be mainly regarded as the exponents of its invisible qualities.] Treatment op Cancer. Cancers have sometimes been supposed to be a general disorder of the system ; sometimes merelj' local affections. This is a point of much import- ance in practice ; for if cancers are originally only local affections, no objection can be made to extir - pating them. They who think that cancer is a constitutional disease, will have much less confi- dence in the operation, which they may even regard as useless, perhaps hurtful, inasmuch as it may convert a scirrhus into an open cancer, or bring on the affection in some other part. Some practitioners, however, reject the doc- trine of cancer depending on constitutional causes ; and Sir E. Home's sentiments, in opposition to it. have been laid before the reader. When cancer breaks out again in the same part, after the per- foriiiaiice of an operation, it is often owing to some portion of the disease having been blameably left beiiind, or to the operation having been put off too long. How likely it is that some of the cancerous