disease, or accident. This renders it especially ap- plicable to cases of compound fracture. The eighteen-tailed bandage consists of a lon- gitudinal portion of a common roller, and a suf- ficient number of transverse pieces, or tails, to cover as much of the part as is requisite. Each of the cross pieces is to be proportioned in length to the circumference of the part of the limb to which It is to be applied ; so that, in making this sort of bandage for the leg, or thigh, the upper tails will be twice as long as the lower ones. After laying the long part of the bandage on a table, fix the upper end of it in some way or another. Then arrange the tails across it, in sufficient number to cover such part of the limb as requires the band- age. Each tail must be long enough to extend about two inches beyond the opposite one, when they are both applied. The tails being all arranged across the longitudinal band, they are to be stitched in this position with a needle and thread. When the bandage is intended for the leg, a piece of the longitudinal part of the roller below is to extend beyond the tails. This is usually brought under the sole of the foot, and then applied over the in- ner ankle, directly after the bandage has been put under the limb. Then the surgeon lays down the first of the lower tails, and covers it with the next. In this way, he proceeds upward, till all the cross pieces are applied, the uppermost one of which he fastens with a pin. This bandage has a very neat appearance. The tails are said to lie better, when placed across the longitudinal piece a little obliquely. The T bandage is, for the most part, used for covering parts of the abdomen and back, and, es- pecially, the scrotum, perineum, and parts about the anus. Its name is derived from its resem- blance to the letter T, and it is, as Mr. John Bell remarks, the peculiar bandage of the body. If the breast, or bellj', be wounded, we make the trans- verse piece, which encircles the body, very broad ; and having split the tail-part into two portions, one' of these is to be conveyed over each side of the neck, and pinned to the opposite part of the circu- lar bandage, so as to form a suspensory for the lat- ter, and prevent its slipping down. But, says Mr. John Bell, if we have a wound, or disease, or ope- ration, near the groin, or private parts, the tail- part becomes the most important part of the bandage ; then the transverse piece, which is to encircle the pelvis, is smaller, while the tail-part is made very broad. When the disease is in the pri- vate parts, perineum, or anus, we often split the tall according to circumstances ; but when the disease is m one groin we generally leave the tail- part of the bandage entire ajid broad. The scissnm liideum, or split-c/oth, is a bandage applied occasionally to the head, and consists of a central part, and six or eight tails, or heads, which are applied as follows : — When the cloth has six heads, the middle, or nn- split part of the cloth is applied to the top of the head. The two front tails go round the temples and are pinned at the occiput ; the two back tails go also round the temples, and are pinned over the forehead ; the two middle tails are nsnallv di- rected to be th-d under the cliin ; but as Mr. John iiell observes, this sulfocat'S and licats the patient and It IS better to tie them over the top of the head' or obliquely, so as to make pressure upon any l..irt,cular point {I'rmciples of !S„a,cnj, vol. i. p. l-il.; I he old surgeons usually split this middle 301 BANDAGE. tail into two parts, a broad and narrow one. In the broad one, they made a hole to let the ear pass through. This broad portion was tied under the chin, while the narrow ends were tied obliquely over the heiid. The nodose bandage, called also scapha., is a double-headed roller, made of a fillet four yards long, and about an inch and a half broad. It must be reversed two or three times, so as to form a knot upon the part which is to be compressed. It is employed for the stoppage of haemorrhage, or for securing the compress after the performance of arteriotomy in the temples. The most convenient bandage for the forehead, face, and jaws, is ihe four-tailed one or sinqle split, cloih. ^ ^ _ It is composed of a strip of cloth, about four mches wide, which is to be torn at each end, so as to leave only a convenient portion of the middle part entire. This unsplit middle portion is to be applied to the forehead, if the wound be there, and the two upper tails are carried backward, and tied over the back part of the head, while the two lower ones are to be tied either over the top of the head, or under the chin, as may seem most convenient. When the wound is on the top of the head, the iniddle of the undivided part is to be applied to the dressings. The two posterior tails are to be tied forward, and the two anterior ones are to be earned backward, so as to be tied behind the head. Ibis IS sometimes called Galen's bandage. It is curious that writers on bandages should use the terms W and tail synonymously; and hence Jom-.taded bandage is often called the sling with heads. Such confusion of language is highly reprehensible, as it obstructs the compre- hension ot any, the most simple, subject. If the upper lip be cut, and a bandage needed, which IS seldom the case, it is almost superfluous to say that this bandage will serve the purpose. It serves also in cuts of the lower lip, though in them also we trust rather to the twisted suture than a bandage. The single split-cloth is particularly useful for supporting a fractured lower jaw ; and in such cases IS the only one employed in modern sur- geiy. 1 Ins bandage, when used for this particular purpose, namely, supporting the lower jaw is named capistrum, or bridle, because it goes round the part somewhat like a bridle. The triangular bandage is generally a handker- chief doubled in that form. It is commonly used on the head, and, now and then, as a support to the testicles, when swelled. The French term it ■ couvrc-cluf en triangle. Another manner of applying the handkerchief, ca led i.he grand eouvre-chef is as follows —You take a large handkerchief, and fold it, "not in a triangular, but a square form. You let one edge project about three finger-breadths beyond the other, in order to form a Rencral bor.b^i- V>,. the bandage. You lay the hanllk^rd e , I head, so as to make the lower fold, to wh cl t ie projectnig border belongs, lie next th'e hea t] « the projecting liorder itself is left hanging over e eyes till the bandage is adjusted^ Tie two coniers of the outermost fold 'are first to be tild under the chin ; the projecting border is t J to bo turned back, and pinned in a circular form '.md the face, while the corners of the fold ne" the head arc to be carried backward and tied.