AMPUTATION. 58 it; and Celsus and some others even did more ; for, after cutting down to the bone, they detached the flesh further from it upwards, previously to taking the saw : but, on the contrary, if Sprengel wishes lis to believe that there were practitioners, who, previously to Lowdham, in the operation of ampu- tation, formed what in England is usually under- stood by a flap,—that is, a portion of flesh, gene- rally of a semilunar shape, and saved from one side, or both, of the member, for covering the bone, —I cannot see any reason for coinciding with Sprengel's observation. Upon the merit of Lowd- ham's suggestions, and the practice and principles inculcated by J. Yonge, some reflections, commu- nicated to me by Mr. Carwardine, I insert with great pleasure, as perhaps he is right in thinking that some former editions of this work did not do justice to the memory of the latter writer. "At the time Yonge wrote (1679)," says Mr. Carwardine, " it was supposed impossible to heal a stump before the bone had exfoliated, and there- fore no surgeon would venture upon an attempt at uniting the surface by the first intention. Now, this union by the first intention was the chief ob- ject of Mr. Yonge in proposing the flap-operation ; and it is to him, and not to Mr. Alanson, who wrote precisely 100 years after him, that we must attribute the honour of this improvement. It is related in a letter addressed to his friend Thomas Hobs, chirurgeon, in London, dated Plymouth, August 3, 1678, and published 1679, at the end of his ' Currus Triumphalis e Terebintho.' It be- gins thus: —• "' Sir, I find by youra that you are surprised with the intimation I gave you, of a way of am- putating large members, so as to be able to cure them per symphysin in three weeks ; and without fouling or scaling the bone. It is a paradox which I will now evince' to you to be a truth, after I have first taken notice of what you affirm, that there is a necessity of scaling the ends of those bones left bare after the usual manner of dismembering, be- fore the stump can be soundly cured ; that you never yet found it otherwise, but that, where it hath been attempted, the stumps have apostumated, and the caries come off' thereby.' "Yonge then acknowledges, that it was from an ingenious brother, Mr. C. Lowdham, of Exeter, that he had the first hint thereof. He then de- scribes the operation—the laying down the flap over the face of the stump, and sewing it by four or five stitches, &c. After this Yonge proceeds with a methodical enumeration of the advantages of this mode of operating over all others then in use, viz. that it is more speedy — the cure not oc- cupying a fourth of the usual time — no suppur- ation — no exfotiation — less danger of hemorrhage — not liable to break open again from slight in- jury— and, lastly, much better adapted to the pressure from an artificial leg, &c. " The foregoing abstract wiU show (says Mr. Carwardine) how far Mr. O'Halloran's method, in which he dresses the flap and the stump as dis- tinct surfaces, can be regarded as a revival of Lowdham's operation, or whether it has been superseded or improved upon by the mechanical ingenuity of the Dutch and French surgeons : — The apparatus of M. De La Faye and Verduin ap- pear to have been merely clumsy and unscientific contrivances for the suppression of hemorrhage. Garengeot's operation had also for its object, to supersede the use of the ligature, which, however, after twelve years' practice, he was obliged to give up, and tie the vessels before he laid down the flap. In the removal of the arm at the shoiilder-joint, doubtless the advantages of making a flap from the deltoid, &c., are sufficiently established ; but, in the mode of dressing, I presume that no English surgeon will admit, that the practice of M. Larrey (perhaps the most eminent surgeon that has been formed by the wars of Bonaparte, and whose prac- tice will be hereafter noticed) can supersede the method of Yonge (or Lowdham), who wrote 140 years before him ! Larrey introduces charpie be- neath the flap to prevent union by the first inten- tion ! Lowdham's object is simply to lay the flap over the wound to prevent exfoliation, and to heal the surface 'per symphysin'' in three weeks." After the receipt of this communication from Mr. Carwardine, I looked over the copy of the " Currus TriumphaliseTerebintho,"preserved in the valuable library of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical So- ciety, and found his statement fully confirmed by the contents of that ancient work. At the same time, I retain the belief, that the example set by Mr. Alanson, with respect to the proper method of dressing stumps, and obtaining a speedy union of the wound, is entitled to the praise of posterity because his advice was so well enforced that it soon produced a revolution in practice ; while the cor- rect suggestions of Lowdham and Yonge, like the hint in Celsus, of the double incision, had sunk into oblivion, or were only known to a few ad- mirers of surgical antiquities. Mauquest de la Mothe was one of the first who commonly used the tourniquet in amputations, af- terwards drawing out the vessels with the forceps and tying them. (Traite compl. de Chir. vol. iii. p. 171.) Lowdham's original suggestion of ampu- tating with a flap has been briefly noticed. About eighteen years after Yonge's publication, Peter Verduin, an eminent surgeon at Amsterdam, sub- mitted to the judgment of the profession a new kind of flap amputation. (See Dis. Epistolica de Nova Artuum dccurandorum Ratione, 8vo. Amst. 1696.) Two compresses were applied, one under the ham, and the other on the course of the large vessels. The thigh was wrapped in a fine linen cloth, which was sustained by some turns of a roller. This apparatus was covered with a piece of leather, six inches broad, furnished with three straps with buckles, to secure it round the part. The tourniquet was placed in the usual manner. The part, above the place intended to be ampu- tated, was surrounded with a leather strap. The point of a crooked knife, which was made to pass as near to the back part of the bones as possible, was thrust in on one side of the leg, and made to come out on the other. The knife was then carried down, and a flap made of almost the whole calf of the leg. The operation was finished in the or- dinary manner. The wound was then washed with a wet sponge, in order to clear it from the fragments of sa^vn bone. The leather strap, which served to secure the flesh was next loosened, and the flap laid over the stump. The wound was dressed with lycoperdon, lint, and tow, over which was put a bladder, sustained by strips of sticknig- plaster. Upon this bladder was placed an instru- ment, culled a retinaculum, consisting of a compress, and a concave plate, which were made to press upon the stump by means of two straps, which