134 AN.^'ISTHESIA ditional water diminishes the amount of the vola- tile alkali, which escapes as gas. One hundred cubic inches of air are capable of taking up ibm'teen cubic inches of vapour, at 60°, from pure chloro- form, and becoming expanded to 114 cubic inches; but when the chloroform is diluted with an equal volume of alcohol, it will only yield eight cubic inches of vapour to 100 of air. In passing over a sponge or handkerchief the air would take up less than this, usually four or five per cent., which is a quantity sufficient to cause insensibility in four or five minutes, without the risk of sudden accident. It is not desirable to dilute the chloroform with spirit when it is administered with any kind of apparatus which is intended to regulate, with any approach to accuracy, the amount of vapour in the air which the patient breathes, for the chloroform evaporates from the spirit in greatest quantity at first, and less afterwards, as the remaining spirit contains less and less chloroform. This circum- stance forms no objection, however, to dilutmg cliloroforra with spirit when it is to be inhaled from a handkerchief or sponge, as no great accuracy is aimed at by this method, and patients may be made insensible by these means with as much re- gularity when the chloroform is diluted as when it is not. Two drachms of the mixture of chloroform and spirit may be poured in the handkerchief or sponge at one time. Whatever means are used in the exhibition chloroform, or any other narcotic vapour, the patient should have the liberty of breathing either by the nostrils or mouth. There should be no tube in the mouth, nor any nose-clasp employed. When he begins to inhale, it is advisable to request him to breathe gently and quietly, in other words, to do nothing but conduct himself as if he were about to fall asleep naturally ; for if he breathes deeply, the vapour feels much more pungent than it otherwise would do, and is apt to excite coughing, or a feel- ing of sufi'ocation. It is desirable also to give the vapour in a very diluted state for a minute or so at first, in order thatthe air passages may get gradually accustomed to its presence. This is more particu- larly desirable in children and timid persons. It can be effected by means of the moveable valve in the face-piece of the inhaler which is used by the writer • or when a handkerchief or sponge is em- ployed,' by holding it at first some little distance from the face, and then gradually approaching it nearer, so that more and more of the air which the patient is to breathe passes over the surface moist- ened with the anesthetic agent. Some patients become excited as soon as they are unconscious, and attempt to get up, or to push away the chloroform ; under these circumstances, if they cannot be calmed by what is said to them, they should be held, and the vapour should be gently and steadily continued for a minute or two, till a state of quietude is produced. The patient generally remains quiet as he becomes unconscious, but there is no difficulty in ascertaining whether he is conscious or not: if the eyelids remain open, the countenance shows whether the patient is con- scious or not: and if they are closed it is only neces- sary to touch them gently in order to ascertain this circumstance. If he is still conscious, he will look at his medical man, and probably speak, or, at all events, show by his countenance that he is awake. The' absence of consciousness and a state of quietude are both requisite before the commence- ment of a surgical operation, and they go a good way towards the preparation of a patient for it, but these symptoms may be present and the pa- tient not be ready for the operation. It is neces- sary to know whether he will lie still under the use of the knife, or whether he will make a resist- ance and an outcry, which he would probably not make if he were awake. The best plan to ascertain when the patient is ready for an operation, is to raise his eyelid gently, by placing one finger just below the eyebrow, and then to touch its ciliary border very gently with another finger. This should not be done roughly, nor too frequently, for fear of exhausting the sensibility when it is weak. Just after miconsciousness is induced, the eyelids are often closed very strongly vyheu their margins are touched, and there seems to be a real hyperesthesia ; but this is probably only apparent, and arises from the control of the will being re- moved, whilst sensibility remains. By continuing the chloroform, the sensibility of the margins of the eyelids is diminished, until they may be touched without causing winking. Under these circumstances the most severe operations may, with scarcely an exception, be commenced without sign of pain. This test even indicates the amount of sen- sibility where a little remains ; when, for instance, touching the edges of the eyelids causes veiy languid and slight winking, the patient will usually ilinch a little on the use of the knife, but only in a manner that can be easily restrained, and does not interfere with the greater number of operations. The only cases in which the indication afforded by the sensibility of the eyelids is not always to be de- pended on, are those of certain hysterical patienU, in whom there is occasionally no winking on the eyelids being touched, even when unconsciousness is scarcely induced. In these cases, one must be guided by the other symptoms, and also by the length of time the inhalation has continued, the strength of the vapour, and the depth and fre- quency of the breathing. Indeed these circum- stances should be observed in eveiy case, and all the symptoms should be watched, such as the expression of the face, the state of the breathing, and the condition of the limbs with respect to their tension or relaxation. The condition of the breathing affords one ot the best indications that the inhalation is pro- ceeding further than is desirable, and this is for- tunately a sign that cannot be overlooked by the person who is giving chloroform. ^Vhenever the breathing becomes stertorous the inhalation should be immediately suspended. Under these circum- stances the patient is always insensible, and indeed it is seldom requisite to carry the eftects ot tlie vapour so far that stertor is produced. It some- times happens, when a little more chloroform has been inhaled than is necessary, that the patient breathes for half a minute or so by the diaphragm only. The abdomen rises and falls free y, mit, as the muscles of the chest do not fix the ribs, hardlv any air enters the lungs, and the lace beconies rather livid ; the pulse meanwhile goes on very weU; and at last the patient takes a deep, lonorous inspiration, when the face resiuii « proper colour, and the breathing goes o" as u ual^ When this state of breathing occurs t 's"aliy takes place a few seconds after the ^-^^^^^^^ been discontinued, and arises from tion of the effects of the chloroform, owing to tUe