bone ; whilst a considerable swelling occupies tbe wrist and metacarpus ; indeed the carpus and base of the metacarpus appear to be thrown backwards so much, as, on first view, to excite a suspicion that the radius has been dislocated forward. On viewing the anterior surface of the limb we observe a considerable fulness, as if caused by the flexor tendons being thrown forwards ; this fulness extends upwards to about one third of the length of the forearm, and terminates below at the upper edge of the annular ligament of the wrist, The extremity of the ulna is seen projecting towards the pabu and inner edge of the limb ; the degree, however, in which this projection takes place is different in different instances. (See Ed. Med. and Surg. Joimial, 1814, vol. x. p. 183.) This description however, though so far per- fectly correct, does not comprise quite the whole of the truth ; and Dupuytren appears to have been the first to notice that the lower fragment of the radius undergoes at the same time a further alteration in its position, by which its articular surface is directed outwards and the hand is placed in a position of abduction. On this point Mr. R. W. Smith observes that " the lower frag- ment of the radius along with the carpus, be- sides being displaced backwards, is also drawn towards the side of supination, and this two- fold displacement causes the wrist to assume a singularly twisted appearance, such as might be supposed to result, were it possible to supinate the hand and wrist, the forearm being at the time fixed in a state of pronation. Dupuytren and others have described the hand as being in a state of abduction, but this statement is not strictly cor- rect, for the hand is displaced outwards along with the carpus and lower fragment of the radius ' par un mouvement de totalite.'{On Fractures, Sj;a. p. 139.) Mr. Smith's own description, however, of what takes place, would seem to show that Du- puytren was right in calling it a movement of abduction, rather than as Mr. Smith here declares, a mouvement de toialite" of the hand and lower fragment of the radius. The following extract from the latter gentleman's work will render this more apparent:—"This double displacement is the result of the action of the supinator longus upon the one part, and of the long extensors of the thumb upon the other; the latter draw the lower fragment of the radius, with the carpus, towards the side of exten- sion, thus directing the articular surface of the radius upwards (?) and backwards, while the former muscle, viz. the supinator longus, besides supinat- ing the lo wer fragment, also elevates the styloid process, giving the carpal surface an inclination outwards,"—and also that "as long as the inferior radio ulnar ligaments remain unbroken" (which he believes to be most frequently the case) "and the lower end of the ulna entire, it is obvious that the inferior fragment of the radius must be displaced oldiquely; tliat, in fact, the styloid process when being drawn upwards and backwards, must move througli a portion of the circumference of a circle, and thus the upper end of the lower fragment is thrown towards the ulna." (p. 141.) The pronator quadratus acts almost exclusively on the upper fragment, and draws it towards the ulna ; this displacement, however, is incon- siderable, on account of the small extent of the interosseous space at this lov<;l. The forearm is in fURB, 729 consequence but slightly, if at all, diminished in its transverse diameter at the seat of fracture ; but its antero-posterior dimensions are very perceptibly increased. The patient has lost all power over the movements of pronation and supination, and generally supports the injured part on the palm of the opposite hand. From the firm way in which the fragments are locked together, there may bo considerable difficulty in eliciting a crepitus, and the head of the radius may even be felt to move when the hand is rotated ; the surgeon should there- fore first employ a degree of extension sufficient to restore the fragments to their proper relative posi- tion, and then, on rotating the hand, the grating of the broken surfaces will usually be felt, and the head of the radius will be found to remain motion- less. {R. W. Smith, loc. cit. p. 138.) M. Voillemier believes that these fractures are almost always attended with impaction or penetra- tion of the fragments, and that the compact tissue of the upper portion, by the continuance of the force after the fracture has taken place, is driven into the cancellated tissue of the lower fragment. He describes several varieties in the way in which this penetration may take place, but thinks that in most cases it extends to a greater depth pos- teriorly than anteriorly and externally than inter- nally, thus giving rise to the double deformity at the seat of fracture, which has been already de- scribed. This author also thinks that the cir- cumstance of impaction may explain the difficulty of detecting crepitus which is so often met with in these cases. (See Archives Gen. de Med. vol. xiii. 1842, p. 261.) Mr, Smith, however, differs from M. yoillemier respecting the occurrence of im- paction, and offers a diflferent explanation of the appearances adduced by the French surgeon in support of his theory. "This difference of opinion has, no doubt, arisen from the fact that oppor- tunities of examining this fracture in a recent condition are very seldom met with. Both state- ments are probably too exclusive, and the tnith will no doubt be found to be, that the fracture ia sometimes attended with impaction and sometimes not. Mr. Smith, after stating the arguments against the occurrence of impaction, says, "he thinks that as long as the ulna remains unbroken, and the ligamen- tous connections between the two bones uninjured, it is scarcely possible for either fragment to penetrate the other, even to the extent of half an inch." (p. 159.) Probably this is very nearly as much as M. Voillemier would himself contend for. The subject is fully discussed in Mr. Smith's admirable treatises on fractures and dislocations, and M. Voilleniier's essaj', above referred to, is also well worth an attentive perusal. The remarks hitherto made refer exclusively to the fracture caused by a fall on the palm, but the lower extremity of the radius is occasionally, though rarely, broken by a fall on the back of the hand. Out of fourteen cases of fr.icturod radius, seen at the Ildtel-Dieu, in 1030, Dupuy. tren found three from tliis cause ; but this must be considered as an unusually largo proportion. The characteristics of the injury are in this case reversi'd ; the upper portion of the radius projects backwards, and the lower portion with tiio carpus is thrown forwards towards the palm ; the lower end of the ulna is prominent at the posterior and inner part of the wrist. Botii kinds of fnicturo migiit be mistaken for dislocation, the former most