FINGERS. 673 certainty, when Dupuytren had iui opportunity of dissecting a hand in which this infirmity existed. A drawing having heen first made of it, the inte- guments were removed from the palm and palmar aspect of the finger, after which the folds and wrinkles had entirely disappeared. From this it was clear that the disorder did not depend upon the state of the skin. As soon as the palmar fascia had been exposed, it was found to be tense, con- tracted, and shortened, and that from its inferior part cords or hands proceeded to the sides of the affected finger. On attempts being made to straighten the finger, M. Dupuytren observed that the fascia became tense. He then divided the prolongations of it extending to the sides of the finger. The contraction ceased immediately, and the fingers assumed a very slightly bent position. In fact the disease was ascertained to be owing to the extreme tension of the palmar fascia, brought on by a contusion of the palm, or the long continued pressure of hard substances upon it. The plan of cure adopted by M. Dupuytren consisted in mak- ing a transverse incision, about ten lines in length, over the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the riiig- finger. The skin was first divided, and then the palmar fascia. As soon as this had been done, the finger became straight, and could be extended almost as readily as in the natural state. After the operation the hand was fixed with a bandage upon a piece of pasteboard for a few weeks, and the fingers kept extended. In one case M. Dupuy- tren made semicircular incisions ; one at the base of the ring-finger in order to divide the two digital and lateral prolongations of the palmar fascia, sent to this finger ; the other, an inch and a quarter from tiie first, in the palm of the hand, for the purpose of dividing the digital prolongation at its root, and thus detaching it from the palmar fascia. (See Duimyireii Clin. Chir. t. i. art. 1.) In a lecture, delivered subsequently to the pre- ceding observations, M. Dupuytren adverts to flexions of the fingers arising from other causes ; as a previous wound of the palm, known by the scar; alteration in the formation of the phalanges, bj' disease, and unattended with the kind of cord observed when the palmar fascia is implicated ; and a division of the extens.or tendons with a cut- ting instrument, which, not being united again, leave the flexors without any antagonists. A con- tused wound, producing sloughing of the skin of the palm, may have the same result if its edges he suffered to be drawn together, instead of cica- trisation being completed by the fornuition of a new cutaneous texture. (See Clin. Chir. t. i. p. S21.) Burns of the palm are frequently followed by tliis deformity when the preceding indication is neglected. Amongst other causes of permanent flexion, M. Dupuytren notices deformity of the articular surliices of the phalanges, produced by the long continued position of the fingers in certain employments, as in lacemakers, tailors, &c. ; by wounds of the flexor tendons, or their displacement, in consequence of liaving been extensively laid open for the euro of whitlow. The wound of a joint nifiy be another cause of contnicti(ui of the finger ; and a gunshot-injury of the llexor muscles may lead to the same consequence. M. Dupuytrcn'a observations on this subject seem to mo ocjually original and valuable. The toes are also liable to a contraction, dependent upon a state of the plantar fasciii, corresponding to that of the palmar. Diipuytren's view of the cause of contraction of the fingers above alluded to, viz. that the bands hindering the extension of the finger were produced by a permanent contraction of portions of the pal- mar fascia, was also held by the late Mr. Henry Cline, and, as would appear from an extract taken from his lectures, and published in one of the vo- lumes of the London Medical Gazette, even prior to the period when Dupuytren taught the corre- sponding doctrine. The former had also anticipated the latter in the practice naturally dictated by such contemplation of the cause of the deformity. MM. Goyrand and Velpeau, however, object to the ex- planation of the subject given by Dupuytren, be- cause the digital slips of the palmar fascia terminate in, and are fixed to the base and sides of the root of each finger, whilst the diseased band is situated in the middle of the finger, and is often prolonged to the third phalanx. They both concur, therefore, in ascribing this contraction to the transformation of a part of the subcutaneous cellular tissue in front of the phalanges into a fibrous band. M. Sanson also believes that this is the ordinary case, and that the contraction of the palmar fascia is an ex- ception. The treatment recommended by M. Goy- rand, is to make a longitudinal incision through the skin, over each band, when extended ; to sepai'ate the lips of the wound ; to detach the fibrous cords by dissection, and to cut across them when thus detached from their connections. (See Gaz. Med, No. xxxi. and xxxii. Aoirt, 1835.) Sir Astley Cooper passes a narrow knife under the cord, which is cut through without dividing the skin. [The fingers are subject to a congenital deformity resembling the web-foot of aquatic birds or animals, in which the skin passes from one finger to another, connecting their lateral surfaces for a greater or less extent. These deformities vary greatly, both as to the width and length of the connecting web ; sometimes it extends only to the first phalanx, at others it implicates the whole length of the finders • in one instance the intervening web may be an inch wide or more : in another, the adhesion be- tween the fingers may be close and intimate. In the most extreme cases, the fingers are enveloped in one cutaneous covering without intervals be- tween the fingers, the phalanges of which may, however, be distinctly Various modes of operative procedure have been devised for the re- moval of these defoimities. No one plan is a|)- plicable to all the cases ; the surgeon must in each individual instance select the operation most suit- able to its peculiarities. The most simple plan is to divide' the web longitudinally into two lateral halves from its free edge to the cleft between the fingers, then to adjust by means of sutures the edges of each lateral half, so as to facilitate their union by the first intention. Unfortunately the web is always narrow exactly at the cleft between the fingers, and when it is divided the edges of each lateral half become widely separated ; tlio consequence is that tlioy can only bo brought iu contact by force, and union is rarely eil'octed. The grainilating surfaces resulting alter the failure of union on either side, cannot be prevented from coalescing, new skin will not form over them, and iu spite of all modes of dressing the deformity in many cases will recur. To obviate this frecpient cause of failure it has been proposed, in the first instance, to make a triangular flap from the pos- terior fold of the web ; this flap is to bo left at- X X