surgeon to the Hotel Dieu, at Lyons, removed every part of this bone, together with the whole of the palate bone, on account of a fibro-cartilaginoiis tumor, and the patient got completely well. (See i Velpeau, A'ouv. Elem. Med. Opei: t. i. p. 247; J/i. Gcnsotd, Lettre C/iir. snr qiielijucs Maladies Oraves du Sinus Maivillaire, & o. p. 18. 8vo. Paris, 1833.) ^ In this work, M. Gensoul states that, several years previously, he had known patients die of very tedious operations, undertaken for the removal of cancerous and otiier tumors of the antrum. Reflecting on the fate of these unfortunate indi- viduals, he was led to conclude, that others, labour- ing under similar disease, might be cured by an operation, which consisted in freely denuding the antrum and upper jaw-bone, so as to be able to divide the sound parts, instead of meddling with the diseased ones, and of searcliing for tlie precise limits of the disease in the midst of blood and the remains of the affected textures. In short, he was induced to think, that the same principle should be acted upon in this operation as is followed in others, undertaken for the extirpation of cancer- ous tumors in general. If the face of the skeleton be examined, it will be seen that the upper maxillary bone is fixed to the others only at three principal points : — 1. By means of its nasal process, and at its connections with the 03 unguis and ethmoid bone. 2. By means of the orbitar process of the malar bone, as far as the spheno-masillary fissure. 3. By means of the connection of the upper jaw-bone to its fellow, and to the palate bone. There is, indeed, a point of contact behind with the pterygoid process and palate bone ; but this readily gives way on depress- ing the upper jaw-bone towards the mouth. In attacking these different points, no large vessel is injured ; the trunk of the internal maxillary artery generally escapes, and, if wounded, may be readily tied, as was exemplified in the removal of the whole of the superior maxillary bone, performed by Mr, Listen in University College Hospital, on the 27th Feb. 1836. If the htemorrhage during the opera- tion were to be greater than calculated upon, the : carotid artery might bo compressed against the transverse processes of the cervical vertebra;. As for nerves, the only one of consequence necessa- rily divided is the superior maxillary : but it may be easily cut through before the bone is displaced, and tlien the laceration of it avoided, if judged ad- visable. This proceeding is strongly advocated by M. Gensoul; but, in the operations which I have seen performed, no preliminary divisian of the trunk of this nerve was practised, yet no ill con- sequences were the result. The patient should be seated in a chair, with his head inclined backwards, and supported on the breast of an assistant. One of the incisor teeth is to be extracted nt the place where the division of the bone is to be effected below. An incision is now to be made from the inner canthus of the eye down to the ifpper lip, which is to be cut through opposite the canine tooth ; and another inci- sion may then bo made from n point five or six lines to tlio outer side of the external angle of the eye, down to the termination of the first, 'i'liis will leave the parotid duct safe below it. The flap is next to be raised up as far as tho lower border of the orbit. This plan is more simple, and less dis- figuring, than that of M. Gensoul, who, after the BONES, EXCISION OF. ' 347 first incision has been made, makes a second from the level of the nostril to a point about four lines in front of the lobe of tho ear; and then a third, ex- tending from a point five or six lines behind the external angular process of the os frontis, down till it meets the termination of the second cut- The quadrilateral flap, thus formed, is then reflected on the forehead. M. Velpeau prefers an incision commencing at the commissure of the lips, and car- ried outwards, and then upwards towards the terapoKil fossa. This would not, however, expose the bone sufficiently for the section of its nasal process, for which purpose the perpendicular cut, from the inner canthus down to the upper lip, is very necessary. When the tumor is large, the circular sweep of the knife, as advised by M. Vel- peau, and long ago practised by surgeons in this country, has advantages. The bone having been denuded, the next step is to divide the connection of the malar bone with the external angular pro- cess of the frontal, and immediately afterwards the zygomatic process of the malar bone. These ex- cisions are best accomplished with Listen's cuttino' forceps, which should have long powerful handles! The next thing is to divide the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and the connection of the latter bone with the os unguis and os planum. For this purpose, one blade of the forceps is put within the orbit, the other within the nose, and the section accomplished. This having been eflected and a cut made under the lower part of the palate^ the upper jaw-bone is divided with the same instrument, at the place where the incisor tooth was extracted, together with the palatine process and palate bone, at the symphysis. The bone benig next pressed downwards, the slight con- nection with the pterygoid process, through the medium of the palate bone, gives way, when the upper jaw-bone, including the whole of the an- trum and disease originating in it, is easily dis- sected out. The flap is brought down, and the wounds united with the twisted suture, aided with narrow strips of adliesive plaster. Mr. Liston pre- fers, as less irritating, strips of oiled silk, smeared with a solution of isinglass in brandy. These strips he does not usually remove till the wound is healed The straight steel needles which he employs for the twisted suture, and the eye ends of which are tipped with red sealing-wax, and the points cut off with pliers directly after their introduction, are removed within the first forty-eight hours, leaving the many twisted silk to come away as soon as it loosens. » Tho following is Mr. Liston's description of "the operation : — To expose the bone, the cheek is di vidcd from the angle of the mouth to the orimn of the masseter ; and a second incision made from the inner canthus to the edge of the upper lip, near the mcsia line detaching the ala of the nose from the maxillary bone. The flap „f the cheek! thus formed IS dissected up, and the nasal proces of the maxillary bone, and the body of the os mairo nro divided with a saw, or with strong cut- ing pliers. An incision having bc6n made through the covering of the hard palate, near the mesial ine, a small convex-edged saw is nppli.-d to tho Hone and the alveolar process is cut through with the pliers, allor extraction of the middle mid lateral incisors, The bono is then jiulled downwards and lorwards, and its remaining adhesions separated by means of tlie knife or plierf. During the progress