FRACTURE. 731 Fractures op the Carpal and Metacarpal Bones, and Phalanges of the Fingers. The bones of the carpus, when broken, are usually- crushed, as it were, between very heavy bodies, or the limb has been entangled in powerful machin- ery, or suffered gunshot violence. It must be obvious, therefore, that, as the soft parts are also seriously injured, these cases are generally fol- lowed by severe and troublesome symptoms, and sometimes require the performance of amputation, either immediately or subsequently. When an at- tempt is to be made to save the part, the chief in- dications are to extract loose pieces of bone, and prevent inflammation, abscesses, and mortification. The parts may at first be kept wet with a cold evaporating lotion, any wound present being lightly and superficially dressed ; but, afterwards, as soon as all tendency to bleeding is over, emollient poul- tices may be applied over the dressings instead of the lotion. Should abscesses form, early openings should be practised, so as to prevent the matter from extending up the forearm. Fracture of a metacarpal bone may be produced by direct or indirect violence. Fractures caused by striking a blow with the closed fist, or by a fall on the closed hand, are examples of the latter kind. In this case, the third metacarpal bone, from its greater length, is most likely to suffer ; but in a fracture from direct violence, those of the little finger and thumb are more frequently broken than the other three, though, in most cases, unless the force has operated by a very limited surface, more than one metacarpal bone is fractured. The frac- ture may be simple or compound ; if from direct violence, it is most commonly the latter, and the soft parts are wounded and lacerated by the same violence which has injured the bone. [The upper piece, from its mode of connection with the carpus, is nearly immovable, but the lower fragment may be displaced cither towards the dorsal or palmar surface. Most frequently, according to Malgaigne, its fractured extremity forms an angular projection posteriorly, and the head of the bone in consequence is prominent towards the palm. According to Sir A. Cooper, the head of a meta- carpal bone is sometimes broken off, and gives the appearance of dislocation of the finger, as the head of the bone sinks towards the palm of the hand. In the treatment of this case, a large ball is to be placed in the hand, and to be grasped by it, and the hand is to be bound over it by a roller; and thus the depressed extremity of the bone is raised to its natural situation. {On Dislocations, p. 506.) The same plan is also recommended for fractures of other parts of the metacarpal bones, but care must be taken lest it increase the ten- dency to project backvv.irds already alluded to: this evil may be avoided by making the pressure operate upon the head of the metacarpal bone, and not opposite the seat of fracture. If there is no displacement a piece of pasteboard or gutta percha moulded to the hand will be found to answer every purpose. There is no necessity to include the ends of the fingers, and it is better that they should not be kept permanently extended. In a compound or comminuted fracture, the hand and forearm should be kept at rest on a splint, and treated according to the suggestions above given for fracture of the carpus. In some cases, of course, when the hand is badly crushed, amputation be- comes necessary. Fractures of the phalanges of the fingers are .al- most always produced by direct violence, and are therefore very frequently compound or com- minuted— force applied indirectly is more likely to cause a dislocation than a fracture. In com- pound fractures of the extreme phalanges, if the soft parts are much injured, it is better to ampu- tate at once, but in the first or second phalanges an attempt should always be made to save the finger, unless the parts are so much injured as to preclude all chance of success. In a simple frac- ture, the finger should be placed on a small wooden splint; or a piece of wetted pasteboard may be moulded to the part; but in compound fractures, and especially when several fingers are injured, it is better to confine the whole hand on a splint, and to keep the part at rest in a sling.] Fractures op the Sacrum. The sacrum is less frequently broken than the other bones of the pelvis; a fact attributable to its thickness, its spongy texture, and the advan- tageous way in which it supports the weight and efforts of the whole trunk. For the sacrum to be broken, the violence must be exceedingly great, like that resulting from the fall of a very heavy body, or the passage of a carriage wheel over the convex side of the bone, or a fall from a great height on that part. Fractures of the sacrum, when they do happen, are generally accidents of a most dangerous kind, because, in addition to other injuries, with which they, in common with all fractures of the pelvis, are liable to be com- plicated, great damage may be done to the sacral nerves. Hence, retention of urine, inability to re- tain this fluid, involuntary discharge of the fseces, paralysis of the lower extremities, &c. Another principal danger also depends upon the injury which the pelvic viscera may have suffered from the same violence which broke the bone. When the fracture is situated at the upper part of the sacrum, which seldom happens on account of the thickness of the bone in that situation, there is no displacement unless the bone is smashed, and the fragments are driven inwards by the same force which produced the fracture; a case which always implies severe injury of the external and internal soft parts. But when the fracture is transverse, and occupies the lower portion of the bone, where it is less thick, the inferior fragment may be displaced forwards, towards the rectum. In general, fractures of the higher part of the bone are not easily detected. (See Bayer, Mai. Chir. t. iii. p. 152.) [The displacement, according to Malgaigne, is usually such that the inferior fragment remains in contact with the other by its base, but is in- clined more or less forward at its apex. The coccyx of course shares in the displacement of the lower portion of the sacrum, and may project for- wards sufficiently to cause an obstruction at the lower part of the rectum. {Traitc des Fractures, t. i. p. 6.36.) These fractures generally take a trans- verse direction; there is, however, a specimen of vertical fracture of the sacrum in the Museum of the College of Surgeons. If the nature of the injury is doubtful, the finger should bo introduced into the rectum, when if tlierc is a fracture, nn unusual mobility of the