861 I-I HEMORRHAGE. ill consequence of the anastomosing branches con- veying the blood very readily into the part of the artery most remote from tlie heart, when the liga- ture lias been applied only to the upper extremity of the bleeding artery. 6. When a large artery is punctured, and com- pression cannot be judiciously tried, the vessel must be first exposed by an incision, only a small opening being made in its slieath, and then a double ligature introduced under it, with tlie aid of an eye probe. One ligature is to be tied above, the other below, the bleeding orifice, with due atten- tion to the principles explained in this article and in that on Aneurism. 7. Ligatures usually come away from the largest artery ever tied in about a fortnight, and from those of moderate size in six or seven days. When they continue attached much beyond the usual pe- riod, it is proper to draw them very gently every time the wound is dressed, for the purpose of acce- lerating their detachment. Great care, however, is requisite in doing this; for, as Dr. Jones re- marks, as long as the ligature seems firmly attached, pulling it rather strongly must act, more or less, on the recently* cicatrised extremity of the artery, which is not only contiguous to it, but is still united to that portion of the artery (the external coat) which detains the ligature. {Jones, p. 16"2.) Torsion. As even the most considerable arteries, in cases of lacerated wounds, frequently do not bleed, in consequence of the violent extension of these ves- sels, and the change produced in the disposition of their tunics, the idea of stopping haemorrhage, by methodically twisting the end of the wounded arteries, led to trials of what is called torsio9i. The praQtice was first hinted at by Galen, and proposed in modern days by M. Amussat, in 1829, and about the same period also by MiVI. Velpeau and Thierry. (See Scmson, Des Heniorrhagies,'p. 157.) After having ascertained, by experiments on ani- mals, that torsion was capable of arresting hajnior- rliage from the femoral, brachial, and carotid, and other arteries of magnitude, M. Amussat tried the method on the human subject in amputation, cas- tration, and the removal of the breast. In one case he adopted it after amputation at the shoulder- joint. In none of these instances did any secon- dary hsemorrhage arise; but union by the first intention was followed only in one of the cases referred to, viz. that of a child. In 1829, M. Lieber, surgeon to the new hospital at Berlin, tried the plan with equal success; and, about the 8ain(; period, it was had recourse to with success by Dr. Fricke of Hamburg, by MiVI. Rust and Dief- fenbach of Berlin, and by M. Schrader of Dresden. On the other hand, in France, the practice of torsion proved unsuccessful after two amputations performed by Professor Delpech. As the patients did not die of secondary hasmorrhage, perhaps their cases have nothing to do with the advantages or disadvantages of torsion. In the hospital of St. Louis at Paris, however, torsion failed in five out of six cases of amputation. Baron Dupiiytren, having been requested by the Institute to make a report of the merits of the plan, tried it in the Ilotel-Dieu, and came to the conclusion, that torsion may ha safdij ap/itied to artnrics of small calibre, but that it is imprudent to trust to it when they are of large size. (See Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 410.) In a certain'number of instances, torsion of the arteries has been followed by extensive inflam- mation and abscesses in the sheath of the artery. With regard to its increasing the chance of union by the first intention, inasmuch as no extraneous substance is left in the wound, experience has not proved that it has any advantage over the ligature (Dtipm/tren, vol. cit. p. 411); and, as M. Manec's re- searches show, the process of torsion kills a small por- tion of the artery, and the little slough is, in point of fact, quite as much an extraneous substance as the ligature itself. (See Traill Theorique el Pratique de la Ligature, ^c. ; also Sanson, op. cit. p. 161.) Torsion is practised in two modes; in one, which is termed by the French iorsioji libra, the end of the artery is taken hold of with a pair of forceps, gentl)' drawn out, and twisted round from four to six or eight times according to its size. This is the plan adopted by M. Thierry (De la Torsion des Arteres, Paris, 1829), and by Dr. Fricke ; but as it has been found sometimes to produce inflam- mation, extending along the coats of the vessel, and even to rupture a collateral branch, the plan recommended by M. Velpeau is mostly preferred in France. This gentleman takes hold of the end of the artery with a pair of forceps, havinga groove or not, draws it out of the wound, and separates it from the surrounding tissues; then he takes hold of it near its base with a second pair of forceps, with which he fixes it, while with the first pair of forceps he performs the torsion, three or four times for small arteries, and eight for large ones. {Sur la Cessation Spotdanee des Hemorrhagies, 4'c. Paris, 1830.) Some improvements were made in the practice of torsion by M. Amussat. He prefers forceps with longish flat blades, and which admit of being kept firmly shut with a screw. He aims par- ticularly at dividing the inner coats, at the base of the end of the artery, with his finser-nail, or the second pair of forceps, and then pushes them away from the surface of the wound, as it were, into the vessel. The torsion then only affects the external coat. The artery is thus closed by a kind of double valve, or rather barrier; viz.that formed of the inter- nal coats, and another by the twisted external one. In practising torsion, great care should be taken not to introduce one of the blades of the forceps into the mouth of the artery, for then all the three coats might be torn, and the bleeding not be stopped. (See Dupui/tren, Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 405.) We find, then, that torsion does not ccuisist in merely twisting the end of the arterj^, but that the two internal coats are also to be separated from and pushed buck from, the external one by the manojiivres adopted. Then the torsion is of the external tunic. As the twisted end of the artery sloughs, and necessarily excites some degree of suppuration, this fact seems to explain why torsion is not less objectionable than the ligature, as preventing union by the first intention. On the whole, I believe that M. Dupuytren's report of it, above referred' to, is as correct as it is concise. The ligature only interferes with the union by the first intention in the iiart of a wound where it lies: the rest may still heal in this desirable manner. Venous HiEMomiHAOB. Though arterial hemorrhage in operations lias received full attention, it must be acknowledged with M. Dupiiytren, that venous bleeding has not