DISLOCATION. 587 man enjoyed the unimpaired use of the limb. (See Dublin Hospital Gaz. t. ii. 1855, p. 76.)] Dislocations of the Cuneiform Bones. Sir A. Cooper states tliat he has twice seen the in- ternal cuneiform hone dislocated, and in both these mstauces tlie same appearances presented them- selves. There was a great projection of the bone inwards, and some degree of elevation from its being drawn up by the action of the tibialis auticus muscle ; and it no longer remained in a direct line with the metatarsal bone of the great toe. In neither case was the bone reduced. One of the patients walked with but little halting, and Sir A. Cooper believed, would in time recover the use of the foot so as not to appear lame. The cause in this case was a fall from a considerable height, by which the ligament was ruptured which connects this bone with the scaphoid and middle cuneiform bones. The other case happened in consequence of the fall of a horse, the patient's foot being caught between the horse and the kerb stone. With regard to the treatment, Sir A. Cooper recommends, first, confining the bone in its place with a roller, kept wet with spirits of wine and water, and when the inflammation is subdued, he directs a leather strap to be buckled round the foot so as to maintain the bone in its place till the ligament be united. {Sir A. Cooper, On Dis- locations, p. 259. 10th ed.) [M. Nelaton met with a case of compound dislocation of the internal cimeiform bone, caused by the wheel of a carriage passing over the foot. The wmmd corresponded to the cuneo-scaphoid articulation, and the posterior and inferior angle of the cuneiform bone protruded through it. The bone was displaced in such a manner as to rest transversely upon the middle cuneiform. The reduction being found impracticable, the dislocated bone was removed, and the patient did well. (See Elein de Pathol. Chir. t. ii. p. 488.) A case of dislocation of all three cuneiform hones was treated by Mr. Luke in the London Hospital. The three cuneiform bones appeared to be partially dislocated upwards. The internal cuneiform bone was chiefly displaced from the navicular bone, and projected upwards and inwards. By extension from the toes and by pressure upon the displaced bones, they were returned after some time, with an evident sensation. The inflammation which fol- lowed was subdued by leeches and cold lotion The strength in the foot returned slowly, and the patient was not able to bear on it or to walk till six weeks after the accident. {Lond, Med. Gax. 1831, vol. vii. p. 704.) A case of compound dislocation of the middle and external cuneiform hones has been recorded by Mr. Aston Key. The skin and the tendons on the dorsum of the foot had suffered serious lacer- ation, and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones were also fractured. The middle and external cunei- form bones were partially dislocated, forming two distinct square swellings on the dorsum of the foot, but inferiorly remaining wedged in their places. By drawing the anterior part of the foot forwards, in a line at right angles with the leg, from which counter-extension was kept up, and at the same time pressing with the thumbs upon the dislocated bones, Mr. Key succeeded in reducing them, and they slipped into their places with a snap. The integuments on the dorsum of the foot sloughed, and a succession of abscesses formed, but the patient ultimately recovered with a scarcely perceptible lameness. (See Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. i. 1836, p. 244.)] [Dislocations at the Tarso-meta tarsal Articulations.] [Dislocations at the tarso-raetatarsal articulations have been occasionally seen. The dislocation may implicate the whole range of metatarsal bones, or any lesser number of them. Dislocation of a single metatarsal hone.—A case of dislocation of the first metatarsal bone upwards was met with by Mr. Listen, who succeeded in reducing it. A dislocation of the fourth metatar- sal bone upwards and backwards on to the cuboid was observed by M. Malgaigne, and was caused by a fall on to the anterior part of the sole of the foot; he endeavoured to reduce it by making extension upon the toe, and by pressing upon the end of the metatarsal bone downwards and for- wards. These means failing, he inserted a pointed instrument into the posterior articular surface, and with it pressed the head of the bone in the proper direction. After several attempts it slipped into its place. Dislocation of two metatarsal hones.—A case of dislocation of the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones upwards and backwards on the cuboid was admit- ted into St. Thomas's Hospital under Mr. Green. The dislocation was caused by the falling of a heavy cask upon the inside of the foot. The bones were reduced by continued extension with much difficulty, and as they recovered their place a distinct crackling was heard. {South's translation of Chelius, vol. i. p. 814.) Another instance of dislocation of the same two bones upwards and slightly inwards has been related by Monteggia. (See Malgaigne, Traite. des Fract. t. ii. p. 1078.) Dislocation of three metatarsal bones.—A partial dislocation upwards of the three first metatarsal bones was observed by M. Laugier, and was readily reduced. Mr. Tufnell records a case of dislocation of the same three bones dowmvards. It happened in a soldier whose horse fell with him, and crushed his foot against the ground. The foot was found to be much shortened, curved inwards, and bent, the tarsus presented a hard bony projection over- hanging the metatarsus, whilst deep under the plantar surface a second bony mass could be felt lying obliquely across the sole of the foot. All attempts at reduction proved unavailing; the patient six months afterwards was able to walk freely with a stick, bearing his weight upon the outer border of the sole of the foot, as in a case of talipes varus. (See Tufnell, Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Science, Feb. 1854, p. 65.) M. Malgaigne met with two instances of dislo- cation upwards of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. In one of these the displacement was incomplete; the accident had occurred many years previously, and had remained unreduced; but at the time the patient came under M. MaU gaigne's observation ho was able to walk perfectly well. In the second case the dislocation was complete, and the metatarsal bnncs rested on the dorsal surface of the tarsus. Reduction was found impracticable. This patient died, and the slate of the parts was verified by dissection. (See Mal- gaigne, Traite des Fract. t. ii. p. 1078.) Dislocation of four metatarsal bones,—M. Mai-