7. of the parench}Tnatous organs, may be the result ; thus, an unhealthy state of the blood acta as a pre- disposing cause of pneumonia, rheumatism, bron- chitis, and other affections. This principle is well illustrated in excessively fibrinous blood. Dr. Moseley, a very accurate ob- server, records {A Treatise on Tropieal Diseases, p. ]02) _that, in the neighbourhood of Kingston, Jamaica, in the months of January, February, and March, 1799, there was not one shower of rain, and the sea breezes were violent. Of the many luindreds whom he bled, there was not a person of either sex, or of any colour, whose blood was not siz3', and the prevalent disease was rheu- matism. ■\V^e may infer from this statement, tliat an extremely dry state of the atmosphere, with cold winds, increased the vital activity and the oxygenation of the blood, so as to render it ex- ceedingly fibrinous, and that the blood in this state constituted a predisposition to rheumatic attacks, on e.xposure to the occasional or exciting causes of that disease. But diseases are often seated primai-ily and essentially in the blood. Whenever, in constitu- tional affections, organic lesions or functional dis- turbances occur in various parts of the body, as in scrofula and syphilis, or are widely scattered over a surface, as in the exanthemata or chronic cutaneous diseases, or occur in many distant parts in similar structures, as in joints affected with rheumatism, they depend entirely upon some morbid condition of the blood, and very frequently on a special morbid matter in that fluid. The de- l>endence of local diseases on a diseased state of the blood, and the specific and distinctive cha- racter of blood diseases, are well illustrated by tuberculosis and syphilis, maladies which present a very large proportion of the cases coming under the special cognizance of the surgeon. The one pro- bably depending upon some change in the oleagi- nous and proteinform constituents, and the other, .ipon the reception of a poison from without; the ;ymptoms, progress, sequela;, and medical and sur- gical treatment of their constitutional, and local nanifestations being totally different. So, also, the nodifications produced in the blood, and in the nitiition of the tissues, by numerous foreign agents, ay the foundation for many of the diseases de- scribed in this Dictionary, as where rheumatic natter produces diseases of the joints, or cataract; ir where poisons produce amaurosis, or cancerous natter cancer. Absorption of the poison of glanders, if animal matter from a wound received in dis- ection, inflammation and the formation of pus n a vein, surgical operations, injuries of the head, ompound fractures, iiifliimmation of the sinuses ■ t the dura mater, the bursting of abscesses in the iscera, produce diseases which must be considered .3 essentially seated in the blood, and are charac- erised, in their general effects, by fever of a ty- ihoid character, and secondary affections of various emote parts ; particularly of the joints, synovial lembranes, cartilages, subcutaneous and intermus- ular cellular tissue, the lungs or the liver. These rogenerally of an inflammatory character, quicklv •rminatnig m effusions 'of liquor puris. In their Ifects they resemble those of animal poisons ab- irbed from without. The blood may be directly affected or totally epriyed of its fibrillating quality for instance, or 'agulation may be greatly deteriorated and rc- BLOOD, PATHOLOGY OF. 337 tarded, by electric and nervous shocks, asphyxia, the inhalation of poisonous gases, poisons absorbed, and many other influences. Its chemico-vital qua- lities may be disturbed, its circulation interrupted, or coagulation produced in the vessels, by the in- troduction or development of solid particles, as pig- ment granules (See Blood, Pigment Granules in). Air may be developed within or intro- duced into the vessels with fatal consequences (See PneuhiatHjBMIa) ; or, as the immediate and essen- tial result of morbific agents, the vitality of the blood may be totally destro3'ed. (See Necrjsmia.) Thus the most important considerations having •eference to the blood continually arise in surgical practice. Resistance or non-resistance to morbific agencies depends not only on its actual composi- tion and vital condition, but on its quantity and the activity of its circulation. Whether a poison be absorbed in any particidar case niay depend on the state of the blood in the part of the body to which the morbific agent has been applied. When the pressure in the vascular system is in excess, impeding motion in the capillaries, endosmotic action diminishes and is less certain^ thus plethora counteracts absorption. When the pressure is weak, absorption is promoted; lience debilitated individuals often receive into the blood the mate- ries morbi which would be resisted by those in good health. This is all the more important, inas- much as a morbific agent absorbed slowly will often be decomposed or excreted without any in- jurious^ efi'ects, whereas, if absorbed rapidly, the most violent effects may ensue. As the blood is constantly undergoing changes by the reception of new materials and the elimination of the old, and does not remain the same from one hour to the other, and as very considerable changes sometimes take place, more or less suddenly, so the character of local diseases is liable to alterations. Exuda- tions and effusions may at one time abound in elements which do not exist at another. Various kinds of exudation may thus be mixed. Tuber- culous matter may be mixed or alternate with simple inflammatory exudation. A glandular en- largement, or fibrous growth the result of a blow emits a simple inflammatory exudation, the blood becoming cancerous after the lapse of time, and pour- ing out a liquor canceris, may cause them to " de- generate " into cancer ; or the materials supplied by the blood being changed, tubercle or cancer may be superseded by fibrous, fatty, or calcareous elements. Again, urinary deposits and the formti- tion of calculi, depending on morbid states of the blood, exhibit changes and alterations in their cha- racters corresponding with changes in the state of the blood. All the elements of which these sub- stances consist and most of their compound nrin ciples are first contained in the blood, and arc' subject to highly complicated decomposiiiK and re- coinposing affinities and transpositions, which over- rule the more simple affinities of inorganic nature • bu they are no so<,ner removed from the blood than ordinary chemical affinities come into play, „„d they are highly disposed to crystallise. Diseases of the blood may be acute and ranidlv developed, giving rise to acute aftections, as liluma- titis and pycemia, and becoming the cause of rapid or even sudden death, as in nccraimia ; or chronic coming on insidiously and unobserved, until somo disorganisation or functional disorder manifests Itself, as 111 tuberculosis, cancer, albuminuria, cir-