463 CICATRIX. it will restore the original shape and functions of tlie parts. Hence, it must be abstained from whenever ankylosis exists, or the muscles and tendons are destroyed. Occasionally, however, it may be performed for the removal of deformity, though the functions of the part cannot be restored by it. (See Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. .51, &c.) But in what manner, and according to what rules, is the operation, if judged advisable, to be performed ? Now Dupuytren does not admit, ■1. That every operation which leaves the texture of the cicatrix subsisting, will be followed by a return of the contraction as before. 2. Or that, in order to attain success, it is absolutely necessary to cut away the cicatrix, and then bring the edges of the wound together, so as to unite them by the first intention. He found, that when the cicatrices had, after a length of time, acquired their com- plete soliditj', and the frsena or bands had become perfectly organised, that the substance of the cica- trix is scarcel}' more disposed to contract than an original texture. Hence the rule which he lays down, that no surgical operation should ever be done until the cicatrices and adhesions have at- tained this perfect organisation. When the object was to remedy too narrow a cicatrix, Dupuytren used, 1. To make, at various points of the fi'cBnum, transverse incisions completely through it, so as to be able perfectly to extend it without removing any of its texture. 2. To extend the parts, and bring them into the opposite direction to that in which they had been drawn by the burn, and thus obtain a cicatrix Iiy the production of a new cuta- neous tissue. The requisite position was then maintained by means of bandages, machinerjr, &c. If the parts were supple and yielding, they were put at once into the right posture ; in the opposite case, a slow and gradual extension of them was made, for which purpose Dupuytren conceived that splints furnished with elastic springs, so as to keep up a gentle but permanent effect, would be of great use. In this country, springs with hinges, and allowing their angle of flexion to be regulated by a screw, are often employed. 3. Theoperation having been performed, the case seemed to Du- puytren to be nearly in the same condition as di- rectly after the separation of the eschar. Hence his advice is, that the formation of the cicatrix should be regulated by the means already specified; and every effort made to hinder it from taking place by the approximation of the edges of the wound. If secondary fra;na or bands form, they are to be immediately cut through, without sparing one of them. To the neglect of this precept, Dupuytren ascribes the failure of many opera- tions. If the removal of too prominent a cicatrix was the object, Dupuytren first sliced off the project- ing part of it on a level with the skin : secondly, he kept the edges of the wound apart: thirdly, he frequently cauterised the surface, so as to keep it rather below the level of the integuments. (Sec Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. GO.) Instead of slicing off the prominent cicatrix, Mr. Iligginbottom rubs it with the nitrate of silver, ox- poses it to the air for three days, and then covers the part with ointment. The application is re- peated as often as necessary. (See J. Higijinbol- iom. On Ihe Use of tltc Nitrate of Silver, p. 157, I ed. 2.) If the deformity consisted in eimple adhesions, Dupuytren's practice was as follows :—1. After having divided them, he dissected them freely to beyond theii- origin. 2. Then he drew the parts asunder. 3. Methodical and constant pressure was maintained on the point wlience the cicatrix must proceed, which is always at the angle of union of the parts. (Clin. Chur. t. ii. p. 69.) When the surfaces adherent to one another are extensive, as in cases of union of the arm to the trunk, or the two thighs together, Dupuytren cau- tions surgeons not to complete the operation at once, as dangerous consequences may follow so large a wound. The same rule is applicable to extensive callous prominences. Here it is best to proceed by fractions, and to let the wound of one operation be cured before another is undertaken. (P. 73.) Another important caution given by Dupuytren is, to be certain, before any operation is attempted, that the limb, retained in a faulty position, is not incapable of being brought into a better one; if there were deformity of the arti- cular surfaces, ankylosis, or atrophy of the limb, the division of the adhesions and contractions would be entirely useless. [Of late years, more especially since the writings of Dieffenbach have become better known, the surgical treatment of cicatrices has become better understood, and four different methods have been planned, upon one or other of which we may pro- ceed to remove deformity, to restore the impaired function of an injured part, or to remove a cica- trix the structure of which has degenerated into a morbid condition. These methods are— I. Subcutaneous Division. II. Division from without, III. Extirpation, and IV. Incision or Extirpation wit/i Transplanta- tion. _ I. The Suhcuianeous Division of disfiguring cicatrices may be frequently undertaken in cases where the skin about the face, neck, or arms is drawn inwards by a cicatrix, and attached to the subjacent bone in such a manner as to form a sort of hole or deep pit-like exaggeration of a dimple. This pitting of the skin of the face is sometimes at- tended with considerable deformity, commencing in the orbital region, and running in different directions over the face. Attempts are often made to loosen attachments to bone by constant rubbing and traction, or inunction of simple ointments- but all this is generally ineffectual, and it is better to recommend immediate operation in cases where the deformity is at all sufficient to warrant it. A sharp-edged needle, or a small tenotomy knife, is used. A pimcture is made in the sound skin, just beyond tlie edge of the depression ; and then, keeping the flat surface of the kniie parallel with the skin, the base of the cicatrix is divided as close as possible to the bone, without enlarging tho wound in the skin. When dealing with a long, narrow, trough-like depression, it is better to make several punctures than to attempt to do too much by one ; because the object is to divide the attachment with the least possible disturbance of the healthy lax cellular tissue around, nnd to avoid subcutaneous extravasation of blood, and tho sup- puration to which this might give rise. After the division, it is always necessary to fix a compress over the spot firmly by straps of plaster and a bandage, so that the pressure may prevent any