604 that a small puncture of the membrana tympani iTiight be the means of enabling the patient to hear. This gentleman reports four cases, in which the experiment was made with success. Tlie operation consists in introducing an instru- ment, resembling a hydrocele trocar, but curved, into the meatus auditorius externus, and pushintJ It through the anterior and inferior part of the membrana tympani; a place rendered most eli- gible, on account of the situation of the chorda tympani and manubrium of the malleus, parts which should be left uninjured. The instrument must not be introduced far, lest it wound the vas- cular lining of the tympanum, and cause a tem- porary continuance of the deafness, by an effusion of blood. When the puncture is made, in proper cases, and in a judicious manner, hearino- is im- mediately restored. A small hole in the membrana tympani now conveys the air into the cavity of the tj'mpanura, answering the same purpose as the i/ustachian tube. The surgeon will be able to operate with more ease, if he take care to lessen the curvature of the meatus auditorius by drawing upward the external ear. There is some chance of a relapse in conse- quence of the opening closing up. This consi- deration led Richerand to propose makinn- the aperture with caustic, so as to destroy a part of the membrane. {Nosogr. Chir.t. ii. p. 132, e'd 2 ) This suggestion is not likely to be adopted on •account of the inconveniences of applying caustic Avithin the ear. Mr. Saunders is an advocate for making the opening large. However, perhaps the best method of doing the operation both effec- tiially and safely is that lately described by Mr Buchanan of Hull, the chief peculiarity of whose mode consists in drillinff the perforation. The quadrangular point of his perforator cuts the fibres of the membrana tympani across; they retract; the wound assumes an oval shape; and there is Jess danger of its closure again, than after the com- mon plan of making a single puncture. " A room (saj-s Mr. Buchanan) with a window fiontin" the south, should be chosen for the place of the oper- ation; and the patient placed on a low seat, so that the rays of the sun may fall into the meatus. Ihe manubrium, or handle of the malleus will then be distinctly seen, pointing downwards and inwards; occupying the superior half of the mem- brana tympani. The surgeon being seated on a high chair, should lay his left hand on tiie head of the patient, and, with the right, take hold of the instrument in the same manner as he would a pen wlien writing: he should then cautiously and steadily enter the point of the perforator into the membrana tympani, about half-way between the centre and its lower edge, and, with the thumb and index finger, give the instrument half a turn one way, and then half a turn the other, and in this manner gently push tlie point about a line through the membrane." (See Ewjmved Repre- scntcumi ofihe Anatomy of the Bar,'p. 33.) Mr. aaunders, by puncturing the tympanum, instan- taneously restored tiie hearing of one patient, who tmd been deaf thirty years in consequence of the destruction of a part of his palate by syphilis, bom, rl f f '""'•''"'^e where a young man had tion of?K r "^''V ^"''"''^ '-iPPai-ently from obstruc- ease ah„ . '"1"= swellings and dis- <=ase about the throat, Paroissc also restored the EAR. healing directly by perforating the anterior and inferior part of the tympanum. (Opuscules do CIrir. p 309, 8vo. Pans, 180G.) The practice has also been successfu ly adopted by Michaelis in one case, and Huno d has tried it in a vast number of examples, two-thuds of which succeeded. (Dkt des Sctenees Med. t. 38, p. C3.) Sir A. Cooper's cases are in the Phil. Trans, for 180-7 Pmicturing the membrana tympani has been attended with some degree of success in France, where it has been tried by Itard, Celliez, and Maunoir,&c. It ,s not to be dissembled, how- ever, that It IS liable to failure. Dubois perfnrmed the operation in four instances without success. {Uicherand, Nosogr. Chir. t. ii. p. 132.) In most cases the patients benefited are said to have experienced pain just after the trocar was withdrawn The organ, not being accustomed to sound, bad become so extremely sensible, that it could not bear the gentlest impression of the sonorous vibrations; and the patient's first request, atter the perforations had been made, was, that persons near him, might speak softly. This ex- cessive tenderness of the sense gradually subsides. fhe two principal objections made to the fore- going practice, are the risk of injuring that part of the tympanum which is connected with the malleus, and the tendency of the puncture to heal up again. (See Diet, des Sciimces Med. t. xxxviii. p. 57; Maunoir inJourn. de Med. t. xiii.; Snba- tier Traiie d'Anatomie, t. ii. p. 186.) The author of the article Oreille in the latter dictionary, who cannot;, however, be deemed at all partial to the operation, delivers the following judgment con- cerning it: — 1. It is the only operation, which is likely to answer, where the tympanum is cartila- ginous or ossified, and the rest of the organ is sound. 2. It will be attended with some success where the Eustachian tube is closed, and this defect cannot be otherwise removed. 3. It will be useless where the cavity of the tympanum is filled with matter, which is too thick to escape through the puncture. 4. When deafness depends on paralysis of the auditory nerve. 5. When the infirmity arises from inflammation of the ear or nervous irritation. 6. Or from fevers, the Eusta- chian tube being pervious. [The operation of puncturing the membrana tympani is not now often performed; and most pro- bably in consequence of the facility with which the Eustachian tube can be catheterised, and the obstructions, wliere they exist, removed. But more particularly in consequence of the general failure of the operation.] Wathen, Boyer, Itard, Buchanan, and the latest surgeons, who have considered the operation of injecting fluids into the Eustachian tube, agree, that it is more easily performed by passing the tube through one of the nostrils, tha"n the mouth. The patient being seated on rather a low chair, with ills head supported upon the breast of an assistant, standing behind him, the surgeon takes a probe, which is bent towards its end to an angle of about 135°, and he introduces it, with the end turned downwards, along the floor of the nostril, and, when it has reached the pharynx, a circum- stance denoted by its descent beliind the soft paKite, a rotatory movement outwards to the extent of a quarter of a circle is given to it, and the handle is inclined downwards and inwards. The instru- ment's becoming fixed denotes its entrance into the