617 EMn-IYREMA. sliowing that the air is not likely to he confined in tlie thonix ; and so far should we be from com- pressing the wound to prevent the inflation, or emphj'senia, that we should rather dilate it (if not large enough already) or perform paracentesis thoracis. We ma}' judge of the necessity of this operation from tiie violence of the symptoms, such as the oppressed breathing, &c. For when these are not considerable, and the air passes out of the chest with sufficient freedom, the operation is then unnecessary. If the disease is on the right side, the best place for performing the operation, says JMr. Hewson, will be on the fore part of the chest, between the fifth and sixth ribs ; for there the integuments are thin, and, in the case of air, no depending drain is required. But, if the disease is on the left side, it ■will be more advisable to make the opening be- tween the seventh and eighth, or eighth and ninth ribs, in order that we may be sure of avoiding the pericardium. As large penetrating wounds are inconvenient on account of the air entering by the aperture in such a quantity as lo prevent the ex- pansion of the lunrjs, a small wound will be eligible, especially as air does not require a large one for its escape. Mr. Hewson recommends dissect- ing cautiously with a knife, in preference to the coarse and hazardous method of thrusting in a trocar. There is one error in Hewson's paper, for which he has been justly criticised by John Bell ; viz., the idea that it is possible and proper to make the collapsed lung expand bj'making an opening in the chest. Bromfield and B. Bell imbibed the same erroneous opinion, and proposed plans for exhausting the air and expanding the lung. It is certain that it is impracticable to make the col- lapsed viscus expand, until the breach of it is closed, and this closure is greatly promoted by the quiet state in which the collapsed lung remains; a state, also, the nidst favourable for the stoppage of any bleeding firom the pulmonary vessels. The true ohject then of making an opening in the thorax, when the symptoms of suffocation are violent, is not to obtain an expansion of the lung on the affected side, nor to take the pressure of the air from it, but to remove the pressure caused on the opposite lung by the distension of the me- diastinum, and, at the same time, to diminish the pressure of the air on the diaphragm. The lung on the affected side ranst continue collapsed, and it is most adva'ntageons that it should do so. The opposite lung is that, which for a time must of itself carry on respiration, and it is known to be fully adequnte to the function, provided the quan- tity of air, on the other side of the chest, does not produce too much pressure on the mediastinum and diaphragm. Mr. .John Bell concludes his remarks on this subject, with advising the following practice :— 1st. When the crackling tumour begins to form over a fractured rib, small punctures should be made with the point of a lancet, as in bleeding ; and if the point be struck deep enough, the air will rush out audibly. But, as (supposing the lung is not adherent to the inside of the chest) this air was in the thorax, before it came into the cel- lular tissue, it is plain, that the thornx is still full, and that the lung of that side is already collapsed and useless, and must continue so. The purpose, therefore, of making these scarifications, and, espe- cially, of making them so near the fractured part, is not to relieve the lungs, but merely to prevent the air spreading more widely beneath the skin. 2ndly. If the air should have spread to very re- mote parts of the body, as to the scrotum, and down the thighs, it will be easier to make small punc- tures in those p-'rts, to let out the air directly, than to press it along the whole body, till it is brought up to the punctures made on the chest, over the wounded part. • 3rdly. If, notwithstanding free punctures and pressing out the air in this way, it is found by the oppression, that either air, or blood, is accumu- lating within the cavity of the thorax, so as to oppress, not the wounded lung only, which was of course collapsed and useless from the first, but the diaphragm, and through the diaphragm to affect also the sound lung, then a freer incision must be made, through the skin and muscles, and a small puncture should be cautiously made through the pleura, in order to let out the air, or blood, confined in the thorax. (John Bell, op. cit. p. 278.) I believe, with Dupuytren, that making cuts, or punctures in the skm, will be of little service where emphysema is attended with urgent sym- ptoms depending upon the accumulation and con- finement of air in internal cavities and organs, though the practice may answer the purpose of preventing the further difl'usion of air in the sub- cutaneous cellular tissue by affording an outlet for it. Hence, if the case be not too far advanced, or joined with complications beyond the reach of surgery, Dupuytren was not adverse to the plan of puncturing the pleura. (See Clin. Chir. t. i. p. 117;) Sometimes the necessity for puncturing the pleura is rendered obvious by the oppressed state of the breathing, and other urgent symptoms of pneumo-thorax ; but, from the extreme distension of the integuments it may be, in some rare cases, difficult to ascertain on which side the operation should be performed. In one instance upon record, an mcision was made between the sixth and seventh ribs on the left side; every symptom became im- mediately worse, and death followed in a quarter of an hour. The post mortem examination showed, that the operation had been performed on the' wrong side. (See Hatliday, On Emphysema.) In traumatic cases, or those from fractured rib, I think that such difficulty is not likely to happen ; the wound, or fracture, being a guide. ' In all these cases, copious and frequently re- peated venesection is generally proper; and for the obvious reason, of bringing the quantity of blood in the body into a due relation to the diminished aerating surface. After a few days, the wound in the collapsed lung IS closed by the adhesive inflammation, so that air no longer passes out of it into the cavity of the chest, and the outer wound may therefore be healed. What air is already there is ultimately absorbed, and the lung, expanding in proportion, resumes its original functions. The application of a bandage round the chest is sometimes practised for the relief of omphyu'ma • and its utility, when the ribs are broken, has been highly spoken of by Mr. Aberncthy. Pressure by bandage (says he) not only hinders the air from diftusing itself through the cellular substance but serves to prevent it from escaping out of the