AMAUROSIS. 31 The directions of Mr. Middleraore for tracing tlie cause of amaurosis deserve notice. Tiie surgeou should first investigate the condition of the eye and the eyelids : he should observe whether the upper lid drooped, whether there was any de- gree of strabismus, and whether the sympathetic and associated movements of the eyes were unal- tered ; he should then notice the state of the cor- nea, its clearness and its form ; the state of the pupil, its size, its figure, its degree of motion, and also the distance of the iris from the cornea, as well as its colour and the general appearance of its texture, and whether it be conve.x or concave, or preserve its natural place ; the state of the liumours in reference to their transparency, and particularly notice whether any deep-seated buffy or dusky cloudiness were present, and whether the eyeball were increased in vascularity, or changed in colour, figure, size, or consistence. Mr. Middlemore further recommends the effect of belladonna on the pupil to be noticed; and the eye to be examined under its influence, if any in- fluence at all be produced by it, and in various degrees of light, and in connection with the pupil of the opposite eye. The state of the pupil is to be observed at the moment when the lids of both eyes are suddenly separated, and also when the lids of the sound ej'e are closed, and those of the diseased one separated. Each pupil is also to be examined separately, so as to ascertain its extent and facility of motion. Mr. Middlemore advises inquiry to be made into the patient's habits, temperament, disposition, and state of mind ; whether any visceral dis- ease be present, and what its nature ; whether there be any temporary disorder in the alimentary canal; whether the patient is suffering or has been recently suflfering from gout, rheumatism, scro- fula, or syphilis ; whether he has passed through any severe mercurial treatment ; whether he has suffered from apoplexy, epilepsy, paralysis, severe fever, inflammation, or concussion, or other injury of the brain ; how long the disease has e."cisted ; what remedies have been tried, and what their eflect. (SecMiddlemore on Dis. of the Eye, vol. )i. p. 255.) Age cannot be considered a predisposing cause of amaurosis in the same degree that it is of ca- taract ; for there are many more blind persons who have been deprived of their sight bj' amau- rosis in their best days, than old persons thus at- tacked. Amaurosis spares no age — not even the Jiew-bom infant. Mr. Lawrence concurs in this statement, adding his belief, however, that amau- rosis is most frequent at or after the middle period of life, especially about the cessation of menstrua- tion in females, and the corresponding age in the male. {On Diseases of Ihn Eije, p. 517.) The following statement, in relation to this part of the subject, appears correct:—"There are cer- tain ages at which, from particular circumstances, amaurosis is most commonly witnessed, and for the most part merely as a functional, or sympa- thetic aff'cction. In the first place, it may be congenital, with or without being evinced by any defect in the form or the magnitude of the eye, or any of its parts, although the globe generally acquires under such circumst.ances a rolling or unsteady motion. Amaurosis may bo produced by liydrocophalus, which disease occurs most fre- quently in children ; by convulsions ; and by the irritation connected with dentition, or by the pre- sence of worms in the stomach or intestines. These are the circumstances associated with very early life, with which amaurosis is most commonly connected. At the period of puberty, it is some- times induced by vitiated habits, and by certain conditions of, and changes in, the genital system. Again, the period of pregnancy and suckling are favourable to its origin ; the former, by the pres- sure of the gravid uterus on the large venous trunks ; and the latter, by enfeebling the system generally, and very probably also by over exciting and deranging that sympathy which exists be- tween the uterus, the mammje, and the retina, and with the precise nature of whicli we are not fully acquainted. The final cessation of menstruation is the next season at which amaurosis is most likely to take place ; and, lastly, extreme age is a strong predisposing cause of amaurosis." (Sea Middlemore on Dis. of the Eye, p. 252.) Four forms of congenital organic amaurosis are noticed by Mr. Travers. One, in which the eye is preternaturally small, soft, and even flaccid; the iris tremulous, and not influenced by belladonna; and the globe afi"ected with tremour, and not sub- ject to the control of the will. A second, depend- ing on a deficiency of the pigmentura nigrum ; the organ is tremulous, strong light produces uneasiness, and vision is dazzled and confused. The vessels of the choroid give the interior of the eye a deep red tinge, A third case is that in which "the sclerotica so encroaches upon the cornea, that the latter is scarcely wider than the pupil. In the fourth kind of congenital amaurosis, described by Mr. Travers, the ej-es move in concert, as if attracted by a faint perception of light; but the infant is blind: no marks of organic derangement can by seen; but the disease may be connected with a morbid state of the thalami, or optic nerve. (Synopsis, p. 153. 164.) \ y t , e , Neither do sex and race aftect the frequency of the complaint; but dark eyes are sometimes alleged to be more disposed to amaurotic blindness than such as are liglit-coloured. According to Beer's experience, for every gray or blue eye affected with amaurosis, there are five and twenty or thirty brown or black ones thus diseased. L. Winslow, Weller, and Sanson likewise regard dark eyes as most subject to amaurosis. In this country, I be- lieve, it is found that the mere colour of the eye has not the influence here represented in predis- posing to amaurosis. (See R. Middlemore on Dis- eases oftlie Eye, vol. ii. p. 252.) More frequently than cataract, amaurosis is found to be a true hereditary disease;—this is so much the case, that most of the members of a family, for more than one generation, may lose their sight from amaurosis at a certain period of life Deer was acquainted with more than one family in which this liapponed; and, what merits attention, the women of one of these families, down to the third generation, became completely and perma- nently blind from amaurosis on the cessation of tlio menses, while all the others, who had had children, were unaffected. But the males of this unfortu- nate fiunily, who, as well as the females, have very dark brown eyes, all seem to be weak-sighted, though none of them are yet blind. {Lchrc von den Augenh-nnkheilcn, b. ii. \i. 443.) _ In women, especially those with bl.ack eyes, the timo when the menses stop is considered by Beer