CATARACT stress, however, is laid on the advantage of doinn- but httle at a time. For though the cure may be somewhat more tedious, the risk of inflammation is far less than when the lens is extensively cut up and disturbed. Generally speaking, three opera- tions suffice for the removal of congenital cata- ract : less may be required — more are seldom needed ; and if the pupil be well dilated, and the operations performed with judgment, the proceeding may almost certainly lie expected to succeed. I may, however, remark, that the danger of inflammation holds a direct ratio to the age of the patient. I have never known it to arise in infants, seldom under puberty ; but after that age the patient should be carefull}'^' pre- pared by diet, regimen, and, if necessary, by medi- cine; not but that a patient may be over-prepared and brought into such a state of irritability, as to bring about the very event intended to be obvi- ated. In like manner, he may be over-treated after the operation ; and I am decidedly of opinion that success is to be obtained after all operations on the eye, just in proportion to the judgment and tact Avith which the patient is treated. (Med. Times and Gazette, July 17, 1852.)] _ Great manual skill, and invariable gentleness, mdeed, seem to me to have had more share in rendering Mr. Saunders's operation successful, than any particularity either in his method or his instrument. I have no hesitation in declaring my own partiality to the principles on which his practice was founded, and my belief, that they are well calculated to improve most materiallv this interesting branch of surger3% I" conclusion, I shall mention Mr. Guthrie's general opinion re- specting the kinds of operation suited for the three classes of cataracts, into which he arranges them for the consideration of this important point; the liard admit only of extraction, or displacement; the soft, seldom of displacement, or of extraction, but usually of division; tiie capsular, neither of displacement, extraction, nor division, purely con- sidered as such, but by laceration, and removal of the opaque body from the axis of vision by dif- ferent operations, which although they may par- take of the nature of all, are yet not precisely either. All intermediate states"of disease, such, for instance, as the caseous and fluid cataracts, admit of some slight deviations from tliese rules, but are still regulated by the same principles. (Operative Suryery of the Eye, p. 365.) With respect to extraction, also, it deserves careful recollection, that it is a method, which, though the cataract may be of a hard consistency, is often prohibited by various unfavourable cir- cumstances, which I have taken notice of in the foregoing pages. When cataract takes place in an extremely old, or in a very feeble individual, reclination, or depression, is preferred by Mr. Mid- dlemore to extraction, unless there be reason to believe that the lens is unusually large. The ground for this prelerence is the tendency of the cornea to slough in such persons, and the hazard of there being an insufficient degree of reparative power to effect the union of the divided cornea. (See Middtcmore,Oii Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 111.) Yet, 1 have known incisions in the cornea hcnl as lavourably in extremely old persons, as in young The case of tlie late Sir William Blizard, who had a cataract cxtiactod by Mr. Lawrence at the age of ninety, was a memorable example of it. When the crystalline lens is extracted, depressed, or destroyed, vision can never be restored toils vZ^' , near-sighted persons, in whom the power of refraction is too great, regain ordinary vision; but far-sighted individuals^see worse than they did previously to the formation of the_cataract. These will require convex glasses, which, however, they should not begin to employ till long after the operation, lest the intensity of the impression produced by them should bring on in- ilammation of the eye, and deprive the patient of the benefit already derived from the operation, (bee Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. i. p. 77.) Some weeks, says another experienced surgeon, should elapse, before the patient begins to use his glasses, and he will act prudently in employing spectacles at all times sparingly-. (See Laicrence, On Dis. of the Eye, p. 427.) W. White Cooper. Consult P. Brisseau, Nouvelles Obs. sur la Cata- racte, proposdes a I'Acad. des Sciences, 1705. Tour- ^^in^-J>^aitre.Ta7i,Trait6 des Maladies de 1 (Ell, 4to. Pans, 1707. Charles de fit. Ives, Nouveau iraite des Maladies des Yeux, 12mo. Paris, 17''2 T Ue Catai acta, Ar?ent. 1721. A. Petit, l^ettre dans laquelle il ddinontre que le Crystallin est tort prfis de I'Uvde, et rapporte de nouvelles Preuves, qui concernent I'Opdration de la Cataracte. (Haller Uisp. Chir. V. 570.) L. Heisler, De Cataracta, &c. tract. Alt. 1713; Vindicia: de Cataracta, &c. Alt. 1713; and Apologia et uberior Illustratio Systematis sui de Cataracta, Glaucomate, et Amaurosi, 12rao. Altorf. 1717. PoiiV Remarks on the Cataract, vol. 111. of his Chirureical Works. Daviel, Sur une Nou- velle M^thode deGuerirla Cataracte par I'Extractlon du Crystallin, 1747; and in Mdni. de I'Acad. de Clii- rurffie, t. v. p. 369, M\t. I2mo. A. Bischoff, A Trea- tise on the Exlraction of the Cataract, 8vo. Lond. 1793. WenzeVs TiealKi on the Cataract, by JT'ffre. 8vo. Lond. 1791. W. H. J. Buchhurn, Die Kera- tonyxis, Line neue geCahrlosere Methode den g:rauen Staar zu operiren, &c. 8vo. Mag:d. 1811. Jlic/iter's Treatise on the Extraction of the Cataract, transl. 8vo. Lond. 1791; and Antangsgr. der Wundarzney- Kunst, b. ill. Jo7i. Wathen, A Diss, on the Theory and Cure of the Cataract, in which the Practice of Extraction is supported, &c. Svo. 1785. Ph. F. Walther, Abhandluno-en, &c. Landshuf, 1810. Also in Quarterly Journ. of Foreign Med. No. 6. Kitpfer, Diss, de Utilitate Belladonnm in sananda constric- tione nimia iridis. Eriangai, 1803. /J/m/ey, Ophthnl- mologische, Bibl. 1, b. ii. No. 3, the Use of Hvoscia- mus for dilatino; the Pupil proposed. J. Wathen, A New, &c. Method of Curing the Fistula Lachrymalis, &c., with an Appendix on the Treatment after the operation for the Cataract, Svo. Lond. 1792. .7. A. Schmidt; in Abhandlungen der K. K. Josephs Acad, b. ii. pp. 209, 273 ; and Leber Nachstaar uiul Iritis nach Staaroperationeni, 4to. AVien, 1801; one of the most valuable Works ever iniblislied on Diseases of the Eye. Ware''s Cliirurgical Observations on the Eye, 2 vols. edit. 3. Scarpa's Observations on the principal Diseases of the Eyes, edit. 2. /ley's Prac- tical Observations in Surgery, edit. 2. G.'Ch. Con- radi, lienicrkungen iiber einige Gegenstande des Grauen Staars, Leipz. 1791; and in Arncmann's Majrazin, b. i. Saunders, On Diseases of the Eye, by Fan e, edit. 3. G.,/. Beer, Practische Ueobarli- tuiifjeii iiber den grauen Staar, &c. Wien, 1791. Methode den grauen Staar saniint der Kapsel auszii- zieheii, Wien, Svo. 1729; Lchre von den Ausonkr. b. ii. Wien, 1817. Karl. Aug. Weinhold's Anleituu)!: zur Reclination des Grauen Staars init der KapscI, 1809. Gilison's Practical Observations on tlie Form- ation of iin Artificial Pujul, and Remarks on the Ex- lraction of Soft Cataracts, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1811. C. .T. 31. Langenbecis, Priifung dor Keiatonyxis, eincr Methode den grauen Staar durch die Hornhniit zu rccliniren odcr zu zeisluckein nebst erianterndcii operation jreschiclitcii, svo. Golt. 1811; and several Papers in liis Hibliothek of later date. B. Travcrs, in Medico-Chir. Trans, vols. iv. and v.; and « Synop- sis of the Diseases of the Eye, Svo. Lond. 1S02, and later editions. .T. Wardrop, Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, 3 vols. Svo. Lond. 1818. J. Vetch, A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the