GLUCOH^MIA stages of this disease have generally proved unsuc- cessful, and are of questionable propriety in any stage. {On Diabetic Cataract, hy J. T. France, (.juys Hospital Rep. ser. iii. vol. vi.) A verj- remarkable case has been recorded in which cata- racts alternated With this disease. {Johnson's Med.-CMr. Rev. Oct. 1827, p. 176.) A saccharine state of the blood has been observed supervening jaundice, in which case the blood is cleared of the biliary pigment by the diuretic action of the sugar. In a case recorded by Frerichs the glucoheemia ceased entirely before the death of the patient, the kidneys were normal in their minute structure, but the pons Varolii and roof of the fourth ventricle were some- what softened, and in their substance numerous little brown masses were found, the remains of capillary apoplexies. (Lib. cit. p. 149.) The more prominent sj'mptoms of diabetes mel- litus are:—a dry, parched tongue, sometimes red and clean; heat, pain, and sense of sinking in the epigastrium ; craving appetite ; intense thirst; cos- tiveness; for the most part a dry, rough skin, but sometimes profuse perspiration, the skin often ex- foliating; the cuticle and sweat often of a sweet taste and odour; excessive secretion of urine with saccharine qualities; sugar sometimes found in almost all the fluids and tissues of the body; list- lessness, aversion to exercise, depression of spirits, and general symptoms of debility; the temperature of the body lower than in health, with chilliness; hectic fever; and very marked atrophj'. The older authors describe diabetic blood as darker than natural, less coagulable, and its crasis or mixture accordingly loosened, and not separating into serum and clot, but too copiously dissolved and melted down ( Willis), with an appearance of treacle. The results of modern analysis as to the proportions of the solid and fluid constituents vary greatly. It sometimes contains a greater and sometimes a smaller proportion of solids than in health, depending on its actual state when drawn from the vessels; influenced on the one hand by the discharge of a large quantity of fluid by the kidneys, and on the other by the quantity of fluid ingested to quench the thirst. The same circum- stances must very materially influence the propor- tions, as determined on analysis, of the fibrin, albu- men, and other substances. Upon the whole, these substances, and the solids generally, appear to be diminished. Rollo, Ambrosiani, Bouchardat, F. Simon, G. 0. Rees, Muller, M'Gregor, and others, have shown, conclusively, that it contains sugar, which exists in it in very minute proportions at any one time, but is formed so rapidly and abun. dantly that the kidneys will sometimes separate for long periods, upwards of a pound daily. It occurs in the larger quantity when blood has been drawn two or three hours after meals, and has been detected at that period, although, when drawn in the morning, no traces were visible. G ucogcnic blood generally separates into a light- coloured, turbid serum, resembling whej^ and a loose dark clot, or it may even be milky. Unal- tered chyle has been found mixed with it, and almond-oil taken into the stomach has passed off by the kidneys without change. After death it is S'"™""^.'''"^ black or chocolate-coloured, and vol ; """^ '^''bingtou {Cyclop. Anatomy and Fhys. nf ^'""^ possesses the peculiarity ot les.sting putrefaction longer than heal thy-blood. The urine is sometimes enormous In quantity • as much as 13 or 14, 40, 52, and even 70 pints or more, have been discharged in twenty-four hours It frequently exceeds the total quantity of the solid and fluid ingesta. It is paler than usual- has sometimes a turbid, wheyish appearance with a greenish tint; an odour resembling that of new hay, or milk, or chloroform; and a specific gravity varying from 1025 to 1060. According to Schon- bein there is no sugar in the earliest stages of the disease, but albumen. Albumen also appears sometimes to alternate with the sugar, and presents Itself when the symptoms have been relieved by treatment. The quantity of sugar varies greatly; It may be from a few drachms to many ounces in twenty-four hours, sometimes appearing only during digestion, and it is not found in the kidney, but percolates through it in solution, a portion beinn- always found in combination with chloride o°f sodium. It is occasionally insipid. The sugar gives the urine the power of deflecting the polar- ised ray to the right The quantity of urea excreted appears to be variable: Kane found an excess; others have observed an apparent dimi- nution. This variability is to be accounted for by the varying state of dilution of the blood and urine, although in the main a diminution might be expected from the atrophy of the tissues. Lithic acid crystals sometimes occur, but the proportion of lithic acid is subject to the same causes of variation. Sometimes, for a few days before dissolution, the excretion of sugar ceases. Diabetes is more common in the male than in the female sex, and after than before pubert}--, although it sometimes occurs in children, and is frequently hereditary. The causes mentioned by writers are extremely numerous, but their modus operandi is not determined, and many of them are very doubtful. Probably the disease arises from causes of an opposite character. It is most fre- quent in cold, damp climates, and has been referred to suppressed action of the skin. By many it is considered as a disease of primary assimilation, produced, on the one hand, by long-continued excessive excitation of the digestive organs, as by the abuse of alcoholic fluids, and on the' other by insufficient nutrition, living too exclusively on vege- table diet, and other depressing agencies". Others refer it almost exclusively to influences which depress the nervous energies. Prout and Bernard affirm that animals are not subject to the disease, which points to the influence of the mind. Either of these series of causes might produce a diseased state of the semilunar ganglion, or solar plexus, and of the organic nerves generally. A starch diet has been shown to produce diabetes in a few days. {Ame- rican Joxmial oftlie Medical Sc. vol. xxxv. p. 469. Hammond). But that the starchy and saccharine principles of food are not the sole sources either of the sugar found in the liver physiologically, or that occurring in the urine, seems to be proved by these principles being converted in the liver into an emulsive mixture with fattening qualities, and also by the fact, that individuals deprived of all amyla- ceous diet, for long i)eriods, have continued to excrete .AI. G. —^.v.v- very large quantities of sugar. --. ; Bernard's opinion, that an excess of glucogen is formed in the liver, and that there is not a failure of Oxygenation, since the eftete nitrogenous ele- ments of the blood become duly oxygeniscd, and urea occurs in urine containing a very large