635 ERYSIPELAS. dissection of the bodies of those who had died from erysipelas in the hospital of La Charitc", in Paris, Dr. Corbiu detected very decided lesions of the abdominal organs, principally of the mucous membranes of the stomach and intestines. Pus is not unfrequcntly disseminated through the viscera, principally in the substance of the liver. The frequency of these visceral nlfections in ery- sipelas has been particularly pointed out by Dupuytrei), who says he has opened a heap of bodies {fotde de cadavres) of tliose who have died in consequence of diffuse phlegmon, and that he has observed among those who perished, towards the end of the malady, tlie external inflammation itself was much less the cause of death, than an internal inflammation produced by some impru- dence. Pleurisies, pneumonia, and abscesses of the liver, have been noticed, and these maladies have happened after the patient has exposed the face, neck, chest, or limbs to the cold." {Nunne- Icy, On Erysipelas, p. 196.) The predisposing causes of erysipelas are in general such as produce disorders of the digestive organs and impurity of the blood. Foremost amongst these stands intemperance, especially if combined with deficiency of solid food, loss of sleep, prolonged marching or other fatigue, expo- sure to the weather, at imseasonable times, grief, and those other influences which under any cir- cumstances produce a low and irritable state of system. But it is probable that many of these conditions rather give rise to low or atonic inflam- mation, than to genuine erysipelas. Some persons there are who are constitutionally predisposed to it. Thus, one attack, so far from conferring any exemption, only seems to render the patient liable to repeated attacks. Women are said to be more subject to it than men ; although probably it is rather to slight erythema, caused by cold, or delay of the catamenia, than to real erysipelas. Every sort of injury or abrasion may invite an attack of erysipelas, more especially those which are irritated, or in which the exudations are dis- turbed, and, speaking generally, those which have most tendency to inflammation. It is of no avail to give a list, because the simplest prick or cut will give occasion for erysipelas, if the wound be infected, or the blood. In some cases of traumatic erysipelas the local symptoms precede the constitutional. The same may be the case in all inoculated diseases. But no injury can produce erysipelas without the presence of a peculiar poison in the blood ; of which we may assume, that I. Tlie erysipelatous condition in some cases arises spontaneously, or idiopathically, or pri- marily ; possibly from changes of temperature acting upon a system predisposed. II. It may, without doulit, be generated by putrid miasma, under certain conditions. III. The putrid miasm which generates erysi- pelas is capable of generating also each of the other forms of disease which we have enumerated as belonging to the erysipelatous alliance, and which are all included in the general term pyfcmia, viz., purulent depots, puerperal fever, deaths by shock or adynamia after operations, phlebitis, and in- flammation of the lymphatics, some forms of sore throat, and of diarrhea and dysentery. IV. Each variety of erysipelatous disease may generate every other, by contagion and infection, using those words in the fullest sense they admit of: contagion being the application of liquid or solid poison, by the touch or by inoculation ; and infection being tlie eftect produced by inhalation of gaseous poison into the lungs, or the contact of vitiated air with a wound or ulcer. Respecting the first proposition, it must be remarked that there are some individuals so pre- disposed, tliat errors in diet, trifling injuries, and exposure, readily produce slight attacks of erysi- pelas, which seem to bear the same relation to the graver forms of the disease that febricula does to typhoid fever ; of which it cannot be proved that they arise from outward miasm, and which, under favourable circumstances of cleanliness and ven- tilation, soon subside, and do not propagate them- selves. The proofs of the second and third propositions have been accumulating during the last century and a half at the least, and are now so numerous that the task of selecting instances is diflicult ; and so overwhelmingly convincing that it is a point little creditable to the physicians and sur- geons and managers of public institutions, that the disease is still permitted to continue its ravages, even in a mitigated form. Whilst writing, the reviser of this article re- ceives a report from Dr. Dundas Thomson, medical officer of health for Marylebone, dated August, 1859, stating that three virulent cases of erj'si- pelas occurred in succession on the first floor of the west wing of the Middlesex Hospital. One of the sisters complained of an ofi^ensive smell in the ward. This aroused the suspicions of Dr. Corfe, who found that the post-mortem room was immediately below, so that effluvia could enter, and still more, that the waste-pipe of the room was untrapped, and that it communicated with a cesspool and choked drain. The cesspool was filled up, the drain cleansed and trapped, and for the 12 months since not a single case of erysipelas has occurred in the ward. All experience tends to show that the most frequent source of erysipelas is that kind of poi- soned atmosphere engendered by the exhalations of the sick and wounded. Dr. George Gregory read a paper on the subject before the Med. Ciiir. Soc, (reported in Lancet, 1IM8, vol. ii.), in which he called the general condition of disease pro- duced under such circumstances ochlesis (from lixA-oj, a crowd), and described erysipelas of the face, and every other variety of creeping, low, diffused inflammation, as the normal results. In a conspicuous metropolitan hospital, the reviser of this article once witnessed an operation for aneurism. The patient died of low inflam- mation in a week. One of the hospital function- aries remarked afterv/ards, " I knew the patient would die, and 1 implored the operator to put him into a dilferout bed, but ho would not ; he docs not believe in sanitary measures. Every patient in that bed dies ; it receives all the fumes of the water-closets.'' " Of the connection between erysipelas and puerperal fever," says Dr. Ferguson, " I may say that those two maladies arc generally co-existent in our hospital, and that when the mothers die of puerperal fever, their infants perish of erysipelas." {On Puerperal Fevcr^howA. 1839, p. 29.) The mortality from puerperal fever in lying-in hospitals