^'^^ CANCER clei, instead of the plump and large form they pre- sented in the others, were withering and degene- rating; the larger compound cells showed little trace of nuclei, and appeared rather as dim masses of granulous matter. The yellow colour depended on the presence of large granules or small masses of orange pigment, scattered through the mass, with which were mingled plates of cholesterine, and oily matter. The outer dead-white border of the de- generated gland consisted entirely in small masses of molecular fat—no doubt the remains of degene- rated corpuscles. The most instructive part of the above history, to me, is the degeneration of one gland lying in close contiguity with others whose morbid mass was in luxuriant growth. This seems to point out the vital power of the cancer-substance as that condition which maintains its growth and activity, not the presence of some peculiar mate- rial in the blood. The form of scirrhus is notably modified by the locality in which it occurs. Rokitansky says :—" In and on membranous structures it departs from the nodular form. In the stomach, for example, it forms a diseased layer following the submucous areolar tissue, and here and there growing up into knot-like masses; in the intestine it very commonly appears aa a ring-shaped degeneration of the same sub- mucous tunic ; in the mesentery it constitutes an extended degeneration of the areolar tissue between Its serous layers; on serous membranes, the pleura, for instance, it appears as a granulated uneven mass of different thickness, looking as if it had been effused while fluid, and had coagulated." Rokitansky describes, what I have also observed, the extension of the scirrhous growth from its primi- tive seat in the submucous tissue of the stomach to the muscular. The morbid layer sends off whity septal bands, which are very visible on a section traversing the thickened muscular coat. As the former increase in size, the latter wastes, and is at last converted into a cicatricial mass, which is fused on the one side with the mucous membrane, on the other with the serous. Small separate patches of cancer are sometimes found in the substance of the mucous membrane at a little distance from the mar^n of the main growth. The cell-growth of gastric scirrhus has always appeared to me to pre- sent much less of marked cancerous character than that of mammary. The great majority of the cells and nuclei are often just like those of some normal gland. Ulceration, says Dr. Walshe, is rather slow to occur in gastric scirrhus ; but when once set in. It effects most extensive ravages both in superficies and depth. The cavity of the peritoneum may thus be opened, or a communication formed with the transverse colon; or, as in one case I witnessed, both with the transverse colon and a cavity in the abdominal parietes. Mr. Paget describes scirrhus of the intestines as occurring most frequently in the upper part of the rectum, the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and some- times, ill a very striking form, in the ileo-coecal V "S'lally of annular form, and occupies the whole circumference of the intestine, situated in the submucous tissue, for an extent of half an inch to one inch. The cancer may, at the same tune, or in other instances, occur externally to the muscular coat, and then forms separate tubercles wliich project with flattened, and sometimes cen- trally depressed, round or oval surfaces into the "vity of the intestine. Its effects are commonly to cause great constriction of the canal of the bowel, with prodigious distension of the part above, whose muscular coat becomes hypertrophied, while the mucous is often thinned, and inflamed, and ulcerated and affected with black discoloration. Ihe involved part of the intestine often becomes united firmly to some adjacent structure; thus the cancerous part of the rectum may be fixed to the promontory or surface of the sacrum quite im- movably. Scirriius of the intestine is, like that of the stomach, almost always primary, and exists a long while without multiplication, though often associated with exceeding, and seemingly dispro- portionate, cachexia. {Paget.) In the brain, according to Dr. Walshe, true scirrhus is excessively rare, encephaloid being far the most frequent. The following seems to have been a genuine instance of cerebral scirrhus; it occurred under the care of Mr. Ballard, to whom I was indebted for the opportunity of seeing it. Mrs. v., set. 50, one child, her parents dead, but no constitutional taint known, perceived, about the middle of February, 1855, a tumor in the left breast, which, three months later, was of evident scirrhous character; at the same time cerebral sym- ptoms set in, and she died June 6th. At the post mortem examination there was found, in the left hemisphere, about its outer, upper, and anterior part, a tumor of the size of a nut. This was hard, perfectly circumscribed, of yellowish-grey tint, imbedded in the cineritious matter and the subjacent medullary, which were softened in some measure. It consisted of a fibroid stroma imbed- ding great numbers of cells. These were generally rather large, as large as an hepatic cell, and con- tained several nuclei of normal size and aspect, with some granular matter. The cells showed also a tendency to endogenous formation, one or more vesicles existing in their interior, in or around which the nuclei lay. Besides the larger cells there were also a good many fibre forming nuclei In the superior vermif. process of the cerebellum there was a larger cancerous mass, around which the tissue was much broken up. It consisted of roundish, largish, granulous cells, mingled with a good many glomeruli. The tumor in the loft mamma was also an evident cancer. Mr. Paget describes scirrhus in the bones as almost invariably a secondary affection. The growth may be either circumscribed, or infiltrated. As it grows, it often causes absorption of the bone around it, so that the whole diameter of the bone, increased or not in thickness, may be formed by the morbid mass. " The cancer cells," he says, " form, without fibrous tissue, a hard or very firm, elastic greyish substance, shining, and sometimes translucent, sometimes with an obscure fibrous ap- pearance. The likeness to the common hard can- cer of the breast is complete in both general and microscopic characters, and not loss complete the contrasts to the usual forms of medullary cancer." " In the liver," Dr. Walshe says, " the scirrho- encephaloid combination is of the most frequent occurrence; next follows the solanoid variety (po- tato-like). Fibrifonn stroma abounds in the scir- rhous nodule." Dr. Bennett {Obs. xvi.) says*vith reference to the so-called white tubercle of the liver, described by Baillie and Farre :—Such cases are by no means uncommon, and I have invariably found cancerous masses to consist of a firm coagu- lated blastema, in which cancer cells, in every stagf