DISLOCATION. B7S. of the fibula remain unbroken." {Sir A, Cooper, vol. cit. p. 177, ed. 10.) [Sir A. Cooper is scarcely correct in his state- ment of the position of the lower end of the tibia, for if any portion of it rests upon the articular sur- face of tlie astragalus it is impossible that it should at the same time rest upon the internal cuneiform bone. The real position of the tibia when the dis- location is complete is opposite the neck of the as- tragalus and the navicular bone ; but the foot is in such .in extended position that it is only its posterior part which really rests upon these bones.] Besides the complete dislocation of the tibia for- wards, a partial case is sometimes met with, when one half of the articular surface of the bone rests upon the os naviculare, and the other on the astra- galus. According to Sir A. Cooper, the fibula is broken, the foot appears but little shortened, nor is there any considerable projection of the heel. The foot points downwards; it cannot be put flat on the ground, and is nearly stiif, and the heel continues drawn up. [Sir A. Cooper refers to two cases of this injury in which a dissection of the parts was made, in one by Mr. Tyrrel, in the other by Mr. Douglas of Glasgow. The fibula was fractured, but the inter- nal malleolus was entire in both instances. An instructive account of the dissection of an old unreduced partial dislocation has also been given by Mr. Adams of Dublin. (See Cycloip. of Anat. and Physiol, art. Ancle-joint.) In this case, in addition to the fracture of the fibula, the internal malleolus was broken, and a small portion of the back part of the edge of the articular cavity of the tibia was detached, and both malleoli were retracted and carried backwards with the foot. In another case mentioned by Mr. Adams, the inter- nal malleolus was uninjured, as in the cases men- tioned by Sir A. Cooper; but the deltoid ligament had given way. One or other of these lesions must of course happen before any considerable displacement can occur. M. Malgaigne found an oblique fracture of the tibial malleolus, with a perpendicular fracture separating the posterior half of the articular surface of the tibia, as in Mr. Adams's case. The fracture of the fibula is noticed by nearly all writers on the subject, and is certainly found in the great majority of cases. It is not, however, constant. Mr. R. W. Smith speaks of having seen two cases of this dislocation in which it was not present. It is not stated whether in these cases it was dislocated forwards with the tibia, or whether it remained attached by the external lateral ligaments to the astragalus and os calcis. {Dublin Quart. Journ. o/Med. Science, Ma.y, 1852, p. 471.)] lieductiott.—This case is much more difficult of reduction than the instance in which the foot is thrown inwards; and the cause is owing to [the powerful manner in which the muscles resist the extension of the parts, and the placing them in their natural position again. As Dupuytren observes, it is true that such resistance may be lessened by relaxing the muscles, and drawing the patient's attention from his limb; plans which fully an- swer for the reduction of the dislocation inwards, yet in that now under consideration they are insufficient, and here a greater effort is required to bring the foot from behind forwards, and place the astragalus under the tibia. And a still greater difficulty is to keep the parts reduced during the time necessary for the fibula and torn ligaments to be firmly united. In fact, the upper surface of the astragalus, which is convex from behind forwards, is so slippery that it is hard to make the tibia rest securely upon the articular pulley of that bone, which is itself incessantly acted upon by the ex- tensor muscles of the leg, so as to have a tendency to slip behind the lower end of the tibia. In addition, therefore, to the bent position, Dupuytren deems it necessary here to employ an apparatus, which propels the foot forwards, and the lower end of the tibia backwards. {Annmire Med, Chir. p. 188.) Sir A. Cooper prefers keeping the limb upon the heel, resting upon a pillow. A splint, with a suit- able pad, and a foot-piece, is to be applied to each side of the leg, care being taken to keep the foot well supported at a right angle with the leg, (jSurg. Essays, part ii. p. 110.) [The apparatus already recommended for the lateral dislocations is equally appropriate for the dislocation of the tibia forwards; with it the heel can be well supported and the foot maintained at a right angle with the leg, and if necessary, pres- sure can be made by means of pads upon the anterior surface of the lower extremity of the tibia. Care must be taken, however, that the heel is not subjected to too severe a pressure, or slough- ing of the integument will be very likely to occur. If there is mudh difficulty in the reduction, chloroform should be used for the purpose of ob- taining more complete muscular relaxation, and if there is much difiiculty in maintaining the bones in their place, subcutaneous division of the tendo Achillis may be resorted to with advantage. M. Malgaigne has, in two cases, used the appa- ratus devised by him for fractures of the leg, with which pressure is made upon the projecting bone by means of a pointed instrument Jnserted°into it through the skin. (See Fractures op the Leg.) In the first case, although this was kept applied for a period of thirty days, the tibia began to move forwards again as soon as it was removed, and the dislocation remained permanentlyunreduced. In the second, the restlessness of the patient obliged him to remove it after eight days, and replace it by a case of plaster of Paris. This was kept on for twenty-four days ; the bones were then found in good position, and the patient rapidly recovered. M. Malgaigne says he knows of no dislocation in which the maintenance of the reduction is more difficult than in this, and he considers the incom- plete dislocation more troublesome than the com- plete. {Traiii des Fract. cj-o. t. ii, p. 1014.) In a case in which the dislocation had repeatedly recurred after reduction, Mr. Cock divided the tendo Achillis, after which the bones were readily restored, and retained in their normal position with- out difficulty. {Guy's IJosp. Reports, 1856.) A dislocation of the tibia forwards and i7nvards is sometimes met with. Dupuytren, indeed, consi- deredit to befrequent,and spoke of having witnessed forty cases. M. Malgaigne, though he believes this to be an exaggeration, thinks it probable that it has not unfrequently been mistaken for a simple dislocation inwards. He has himself observed four cases. The symptoms consist of a combination of tiiosc of the dislocation inwards with those of the dislocation forwards, with a predominance some-.