DISLOCATION. 503 In order to keep the bone from slipping cut of its place again, we have only to hinder the limb from moving. When splints will act powerfully in supporting the joint, they are often used, as in dis- locations of the ankle, wrist, &c. As the huuierus cannot be luxated, except when at some distance from the body, a return of its dislocation will be prevented by confining the arm close to the side in a sling. The spica bandage, applied after such an accident, is more satisfactory to the patient than really efficacious. Whatever bandage is used to keep the arm from moving, should be put on the lower end of the bone, as far as possible from the centre of motion. According to Sir Astley Cooper, the hip is rarely dislocated a second time ; but the humerus, and the lower jaw very frequently slip again from their sockets, which are shallow. Ban- dages for the prevention of this return of displace- ment are, therefore, in such cases, particularly necessarj'. Rest is required for some time after the reduction, in order that the ruptured ligaments may unite. The strength of the muscles, &c. will also be greatly promoted by friction, and pouring cold water over the limb. {On Dislocations, p. 35.) [Congenital dislocations are occasionally met with in the hip, shoulder, wrist, and other joints ; they appear to be most frequent in the hip. On their mode of origin much has been written, and their occurrence has been variously explained by different surgeons. Breschet, Dupuytren, and others have looked upon them as the result of arrest of develop- ment of the bones and their sockets. Chelius and Cmveilhier ascribe them to the position of the foetus in the womb. Gue'rin considers them as the product of an active or primary retraction of the muscles, the remote cause of which is to be sought in the affection of some central part of the nervous sys- tem, and that they result from the same causes as club-foot, wryneck, &c.; violence during parturition may be mentioned as another mode of their produc- tion. The examination after death in congenital dislocations has shown various alterations, such as distension and tearing of the capsular and other liga- ments, diminution, flattening, distortion of the head of the bone, diminution of the socket, its filling up ■with a quantity of fat, flattening or entire disap- pearance, a more or less deep new cavity for the dislocated head ; the muscles surrounding the joint contracted, shortened, and variously altered in their substance ; considerable wasting in the affected limb. The possibility of reducing congenital dislocations depends upon the changes which the muscles have undergone in their direction, dimensions, structure, and texture ; on the change in the ligaments and capsules, the head and surfaces of the joints; on the changes of the vessels and nerves, of the cellular tissue and skin, and of the bones in the neighbour- hood of the dislocation. Itcduction is to be effected by long-continued and gradually-increased exten- sion by means of proper apparatus, and by properly fixing the head of the bone in the socket after it has been brought into it. If the shortened muscles will not lengthen, but project considerably, exten- sion should bo assisted by cutting them through beneath the skin. (Chcliiis, Si/st. o/Surg, translated by Siiulh, vol. i. p. 770.) For further information on this subject, see Palletia, Exercit. Pathol, p. i. 1820. Scarpa, Mc- moire, sui. I'tedi Torli Congeniii, 1803. Dupuy- tren, Mem. stir k Deplacement Oriy. ou Congen. de la Tele des Femurs; Repert. Gen. d'Anat. 1826, t. ii. Chelius, Syst. of Surg, translated hy South, vol. i. p. 769, 1847. Guerin ; Reckerches sur les Luco. Co7igen., Gax. Med. 1841. R. W. Smith, On Fractures and Dislocations, Dublin, 1847. Cru- veilhier, Traite d'Anat. Pathol, t. i. 1849. Robert, Des Vices Congen. de Conform.'des Artie; these de concours, 1851. Malgaigne, Traite des Fract. et des Lux. t, ii. p. 260, 1855. Parise, Archiv. Gen. de Med. 1842, t. xiv. p. 428.] Dislocation xvith fracture.—[When a dislocation is complicated with fracture of the shaft of the dis- located bone, the difficulties in the treatment of the case are greatly increased, and the more so, in pro- portion as the fracture is situated near to the dislo- cation. In these cases, Sir A. Cooper advised that an endeavour shoiUd be made to reduce the dislo- cation without loss of time, taking care that the fractured part is strongly bandaged in splints, to prevent injury to the muscles ; for if the reduction be not accomplished at first, it cannot be afterwards attempted without danger of reproducing the frac- ture. (Ore Dislocations, S;c. ed. hy B. Cooper, p. 13.) Several cases are recorded of dislocation of the shoulder complicated with fracture of the neck of the humerus, where the head of the bone has been successfully replaced ; of dislocations of the hip which have been reduced notwithstanding frac- ture of the shaft of the femur ; of the elbow joint with fracture of the radius and ulna. Occasionally, however, when immediate reduction could not be obtained, it has been successfully accomplished after the fracture had united. Two cases of this kind, one at the shoulder, and the other at the elbow, are mentioned by Malgaigne. The advice given by this latter authority is, first to attempt immediate reduction of the dislocation; should the attempt fail, then to favour the consolidation of the fracture with a view to reduction at a later period; and lastly, should this be impossible, to endeavour to restore as far as possible the functions of the mem- ber by well-directed movements persevered in for a long period. {Traite ties i^'j-ac^. (^'c. t. ii. p. 211.) See Dislocations op Shoulder, Hip, and Elbow Joints.] Compound Dislocations mean such as are attended with a wound commu- nicating with the cavity of the injured joint. Some joints arc more disposed than others to compound dislocations. The accident scarcely ever takes place at the hip. Sir Astley Cooper has known one instance of it at the shoulder, and ho has seen one of the knee ; but the case is very fre- quent in the ankle. (Ore Dislocations, p. 10.) In most instances, the opening in the skin is caused by the protrusion of the bone, but some- times by the part having struck against a hard or an irregular bod)'. Cases of this description are frequently attended with great danger ; and the same nicety of judgment is requisite in determin- ing whether amputation ought to be immediatelv performed, or an eftbrt made to preserve the limb, as in compoimd fractures, and bad gunshot injuries; and many of the observations which I shall have to offer upon tlie latter subjects will bo applicable to the present. When the dislocation of a largo joint is con- joined with an external wound, leading into the capsular ligament, the latter circumstance has a particular tendency to increase the danger. In K K 4