ANEURISM, 23S Glasjoiu Medical Journ. vol. i. p. 85.) Two cases luis, Dupuytren had a case, in which the whole L1 the external ear and a portion of the contiguous parts were converted into a true erectile mass- lu other examples, the new growth leads to the torination of tumors of various size, placed in the very substance, or in the interstices of organs. L'lider some circumstances, the accidental erectile tissue seemed to Dupuytren to be tlie product of ;i degeneration of some natural texture, and of the dilatation of its capillary network ; while on other occasions, it appeared to him to be in reality I new organ developed amongst the parts. In the St case, it is confounded on every side with :iic healthy textures ; in the second, it separates tiicsj textures fi-om one another, compresses them, and at the same time remains divided from them liy a dense investment of ;u-eolar tissue, by which it is circumscribed. The accidental erectile tissues of Dupuytren, corresponding to the aneurism by anastomosis of J ohn Bell, the tetangiectasiae of Graefe, the cylin- liroid aneurism of the small arteries of M. Breschet, and the ntevi of many writers, are generally of a J dish or brownish colour, often granular on their iiface, and situated in the skin, the subcutaneous areolar tissue, or between the muscles. From the investigations of M. Breschet and Scarpa, it ap- iK'ars that the small vessels of the bones, as well as tiie soft parts, are occasionally the seat of aneurism iiy anastomosis. (See Brescltet in Repert. d'jhiat. eye. t. i. anne'e 1826; Scarpa, AnnaLi, Univ. di Med. 1830. Tumors of this character are either flat or prominent. Sometimes the skin, under which they lie, is scai-cely altered. A kind of mo- tion is perceptible in them, synchronous with the arterial pulse. Pressure reduces them to a very small size. Though usually soft, any irritation or excitement renders them remarkably tense and turgid ; and if they happen to be woimded, the hemorrhage from them is profuse, and often very difficult to stop. The blood, though of a vermilion colour, and manifestly arterial, does not flow out per saltiim; but trickles away, just like what happens in cases of fungus heematodes. {Dupuy- tren, Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 8.) Tumors of this description do not spontaneously disappear, but, on the contrary, have a tendency to increase in magnitude. In a few instances, however, they have been known to disperse in consequence of an accidental attack of inflammation ; and Professor Gibson, of the United States, gives an instance of this, which occurred during a fever. {Pract. and Insl. of Suryery.) Like the natural erectile tissues, these tumors undergo, at the same epochs, and fi-om tiie same causes, a marked development, and alternations of tension and relaxation, which are, in relation to the healthy or unhealthy state, the strength or weakness of the individual. (See Du- puytren, CUuique Chir. t. iv. p. 3—5.) I have mentioned the observation of Dupuytren, that the accidental erectile tissue forms the basis of those congenital marks and substances, which go under the name of najvi matcrni. As Mr. Guthrie remarks, however, " It is only wlien these spots, or marks, are subcutaneous, that their nature ap- proaches to that of aneurism by anastomosis. The milder kinds of subcutaneous disease, to which the name of na;vi is often applied, difl'ur much both in appearance and size ; sometimes remaining sta- tionary through life, and in others, even dis- appearing altogetiier, or becoming small solid prominences. A nsevus is usually of a red colour, with a bluish cast, shining through the skin, which appears to be exceedingly thin. It has also a to- lerably defined and terminating edge ; and the disease of the vessels seems to be confined to the part discoloured, or extends to a very short dis- tance around it. The tumor, or naivus, although large and elevated in size, does not pulsate. An aneurism by anastomosis, in its most formidable shape, is a swelling of a more or less elevated form. The skin is in general thickened, and its colour is sometimes but little altered, although it more frequently has a bluish cast, which may even tend to red. The pulsatory nature of the tumor is distinct, and the vessels, both arteries and veins, leading to or from it, are enlarged for some dis- tance. The tortuous forms, which the veins parti- cularly assume, give to this disease a distinct character, which cannot be mistaken, (See Guthrie, On Dis. of Arteries, p. 341; also Breschet, Mem. Chir. p. 28.) Several writers describe an essential difference between simple naevi and aneurism by anastomosis to be this: in the former, the veins are chiefly affected ; in the latter, the arteries. To this view Mr. Guthrie inclines, for he says, " When the ar- teries partake most of the disease, the indistinct throbbing attendant on it is soon perceptible, and becomes in a short time a marked pulsation ; but in cases which more frequently occur in children, and are congenital, and the disease seems more to affect the veins, the swelling will be considerable, the veins greatly dilated, and the part have a varicose appearance,without any pulsatory motion." (See Guthrie, On Dis. of Arteries, p. 344.) The cylindroid aneurism in the vessels of the smallest diameter, for instance, in the capillaries, says M. Breschet, is named aneurism by arterial anasto- mosis, and aneurism by venous anastomosis. In the first of these tumors, there are pulsations syn- chronous with the pulse, and alternate rises and falls corresponding to the diastole and systole of the arteries, circumstances not remarked in aneu- risms of the second kind ; which, however, in cer- tain states of the circulation, exhibit a sort of erection or turgescence, produced by the influx of a greater quantity of venous blood. (See Breschet in Mem. Chir. sur Difftrenies Espices d^Aneti- 7-ysmes.) It is observed by Mr. Syme, that most surgeons have followed John Bell in believing aneurism by anastomosis to consist of a morbid cellular struc- ture, through which the blood passes in its course from the arteries into the veins. However he has long been one of those who maintain tliat 'the ap- parent cells are really sections of enlarged vessels, (Sec Ed. Med. Journ. No. .98, p. 72.) In the dissection of a " . , pulsatnig tumor of the scalp m a patient who had died aftor the operation of tying the carotid artery, Dr. Maclachlan found the branches of this vessel on the head " degcne- rated into dilated tubes of extreme thinness and transparency ; which, apparently yielding to the impetus of the bloiul, had become elongated, con- torted, and ultimately convoluted on themselves so as to form, by this species of doubling, the tu- mors, which constituted this singular disease." They fiilt like jilaceiita, and the larger portion, in'i- mediatoly over tiic car, looked precisely like a bundle of earthworms coiled together. (See