COPAIBA I attended a man in the King's Bench, over whose sacrum an extravasation of three quarts of blood took place from a severe contusion. Besides the rupture of an infinite nmnber of small vessels, and an extravasation of blood which attend all bruises in a greater or less degree, the tone of the fibres and vessels which have suffered contusion, is considerably disordered. Nay, the violence may have been so great, that the parts are from the first deprived of vitality, and must slough. Parts at some distance from such as are actually struck, may suffer greatly from the violence of the contusion. This effect is what the French have named a cotitrecoup. _ The bad consequences of bruises are not inva- riably proportioned to the force which has oper- ated; much depends on the nature and situation of the part. When a contusion takes place on a bone which is thinly covered with soft parts, the latter always suffer very severely, in consequence ot being pressed, at the time of the accident,' be- tween two hard bodies. Hence, bruises of the shins frequently cause sloughing and troublesome sores. Contusions affecting the large joints are always serious cases; the inflammation occasioned is generally obstinate, and abscesses and other dis- eases, which may follow, are proper grounds for serious alarm. The species of mischief which is alleged to result froin what are termed wind contusions, is noticed in the article Gunshot Wounds. In the treatment of bruises, three indications present themselves. The first is to prevent and diminish the inflammation, which from the violence done must be expected to arise. The bruised parts should be kept perfectly at rest; and either be fomented, or covered with linen constantly wet, with the liquor plumbi acetatis dilutus, or the lotio ammon. acetatis. When muscles are bruised, they are to be kept in a relaxed position, and as quiet as possible. If the bruise be violent, it may be proper to apply leeches, and even in some cases, particularly when joints are contused, to take blood from the arm, but this is rarely found to be necessary. In every instance, the bowels should be kept weU open with calomel and saline purgatives. A second indication is to promote the absorption of the extravasated fluid by discutient applications. These may at once be employed in all ordinary contusions, not attended Avith too much violence; for then nothing is so beneficial as maintaining a continual evaporation from the bruised part, by means of the cold saturnine lotion, and, at the same time, repeatedly applying leeches. In common bruises, however, the loiio ammoniai hj- drochloralis is an excellent discutient applica- tion ; but most surgeons are in the habit of ordering liniments for all ordinary contusions, and as these applications prove serviceable in accele- rating the absorption of the extravasated blood, the practice is highly praiseworthy. The lininientum saponis, or the lininientum camphoras, is as good as any that can be employed. (See Linimentum.) _ In many cases, unattended with any threaten- ing appearances of inflammation, but in which there is a good deal of blood and fluid extravasated, bandages act very beneficially, by the remarkable power which they have of promoting absorption by I 1 means of the pressure which they produce. [,-, A third indication is to restore the tone of the parts. Rubbing the parts with liniments has a ^ood deal of effect in this way. But, notwithstand- ing such applications, it is often observed, that bruised parts continue for a long while weak and even swell, and become cedematous, when the patient takes exercise, or allows them to hang down, as their functions in life may require. Pumping cold water, two or three times a day, on a part thus circumstanced, is the very best measure which can be adopted. A bandage should also be worn, if the situation of the part will permit, I hese steps, together with perseverance in the use ot liniments, and in exercise gradually increased, will soon bring every thing into its natural state again. When blood is extravasated under the skin in large quantity, so as to form a considerable tumour, the best practice is generally to avoid making any opening for its discharge. The opening would not procure the evacuation of a great part of it; if in- ternal bleeding were going on, it would encourage It; and the air having access to the blood remain- ing behind, would certainly be followed by its putrefaction. Hence, irritation, suppuration, and sloughing. In the greater number of instances, collections of blood under the skin, from con- tusions, are quietljr, though sometimes slowly, absorbed; and the kinds of mischief, here spe- cified, are thus avoided. In the remarkable case which I have adverted to as occurring in the King's Bench Infirmarj', this observation was well illustrated. [In serious accidents, contusions and even lacera- tions of the internal organs are of frequent occur- rence, especially in the solid viscera, such as the iver, kidney, or spleen. Blood is found to be ef- fused in these cases, both in the parenchyma of the organ, and in the visceral cavity. The kind of injury received, and its localit}-, will lead the sur- geon to diagnose an internal"bruise. The pallid countenance and collapse, accompanied by faintness, and the scarcely perceptible pulse, will often indicate the internal hemorrhage. In addition to the ordinary remedies for contusions, these internal injuries will require special treatment, having re- ference to the organ implicated, the inflammation which may have ensued, or the loss of blood that may have occurred.] COPAIBA {Bahamicm Cojyaiba:), Its proper- ties closely resemble those of turpentine. Exhi- bited by surgeons principally in gonorrlm'a, gleet, leucorrhoja, piles, and some diseases of the bladder.. ;Copaiba has a stimulative action upon all the mucous membranes, but it operates more especially upon that of the genito-urinary organs, and it is the most efficient of all internal remedies in the treat- ment of gonorrhoea and gleet, especially in the male sex. (See Gonoriihcea.) " Under its influence," says Dr.Pereira, "theurine is increased in quantitj-, and altered in quality ; its colour is heightened, its odour becomes balsamic, and its taste bitter ; not unfrequently it is turbid, as if containing mucus." (Ef. of Malar. Med., vol. i. p. 1880, ed. 3.) Dr. G. 0. Rees has shown that the oloo resinous matter of copaiba enters the urine, and causes the secre- tion to simulate an albuminous condition, inasmuch as it becomes precipitable by nitric acid. The pre- cipitate may be distinguished from that of albumen by the fact of its not subsiding as albumen does after it has been set aside for a few hours. (On