DISLOCATION. 571 wards to reach the dislocated head of the hone; and here, also, the reduction was found impracticable until the leg had been flexed upon the thigh. In the other case there was no difficulty in reduction in the extended position, but care was taken to relax the muscles which arise from the anterior surface of the fibula. Dislocation upivards of the head of the fibula associated with fracture of the tibia has been occa- sionally seen; the fracture being obliq^ue down- wards and inwards, so as to permit the fragments of the tibia to override each other.] [Dislocation op the Lower Extremity of THE Fibula.] [The case observed by Boyer of dislocation of the whole fibula upwards must, of course, have been attended with some displacement of the in- ferior as well as of the superior tibio-fibular articula- tion. With this exception, however, only one in- stance of dislocation of the lower end of the bone, uncomplicated by some further displacement affect- ing the ancle-joint, has been recorded. The case in question was under M. Gerdj', in the Hfipital St. Louis. The accident was caused by the wheel of a carriage passing obliquely over the inferior part of the leg, in such a manner as to push the malleolus directly backwards. The malleolus was fovmd in contact with the outer border of the tendo Achil- lis; the external surface of the astragalus, aban- doned by the fibula, could be felt throughout nearly its whole extent; the foot had preserved its normal position. The patient did not present himself till thirty-nine days after the accident, and it was not judged expedient to make any attempt at reduc- tion. He was able, by taking some precautions, to walk tolerably well. (See Nelalon, Elem, de Pathol. Chir. t. ii. p. 474.)] Dislocations of the Ancle-Joint. [Dislocations of the ancle-joint may take place either backwards, forwards, or laterally ; the great majority are complicated with fracture of one or both malleoli, or of the fibula within three or four inches of the joint.] I think the profession is much indebted to Sir A. Cooper for his application of terms to disloca- tions of the ancle, which are liable to no mistake or confusion. Thus, when he speaks of a disloca- tion of the tibia, inwards or outwards, backwards or forwards, the case spoken of is immediately known. On the contrary, when authors write about dislocations of the ancle or foot in any named direction, their meaning may be various and mis- interpreted. We find this exemplified in Dupuy- tren's valuable memoir on fractures of the lower end of the fibula associated with dislocation of the foot; for, instead of terming the above case a dislo- cation of the foot ouitvards, as the generality of writers have done, he thinks it should bo named a dislocation of the foot inwards, on account of the direction in which the articular surface of the as- tralagus is turned. {Anmiaire Med. Chir. p. 3, 181.9.) - [The confusion has arisen chiefly with reference to the lateral dislocations of the ancle, in which it will be found that the same injury which some call dislocation of the tibia intvards, mid nf the fool outwards, is described by others as dislocation of the fool inwards, because the foot has undergone a sort of rotation (abduction) which causes the upper surface of the astralagus to/ace more or less obliquely iTiwards. Several recent writers, (see N6laion, Elan, de Pathol. Chir. t. ix. p. 478; Chelius, Syst. of Surycry, ircaislated by South, vol. i. p. 007; Erichsen, Science and Art of Surgery, p. 244) following Dupuytren and Boyer, have adopted this latter view, and have perpetuated the confusion which Sir A. Cooper's description had gone far to remove. All, however, singularly enough, together with Dupuytren, in speaking of this form of dislocation, describe the internal malleolus as prominent internally, and stretching the skin almost to bursting. Surely, when this is the case, it must be the tibia and not the foot which is dislocated inwards ; and if the tibia is dislocated inwards, it follows, one would think necessarily, that the foot must be dislocated outwards. The converse of these remarks is of course equally ap- plicable to the opposite case, in which the foot is displaced inwards, and the bones of the leg out- wards. The dislocations of the ancle-joint may be cor- rectly classified in the following manner, which will, it is hoped, leave no room for misapprehen- sion :— 1. Dislocation of the tibia inwards, or of the foot outwards, with fracture of the fibula. 2. Dislocation of the tibia and fibula outwards, or of the foot inwards ; sometimes without any fracture of either bone, but most frequently with fracture of one or both malleoli. 3. Dislocation of the tibia forwards, or of the foot backwards, usually accompanied by fracture of the fibula, 4. Dislocation of the tibia and fibula backwards, or of the foot forwards. 6. Dislocation upwards of the astragalus between the tibia and fibula.] 1. Dislocation of the tibia inwards, or of tie foot outtvards, with fracture of the fibula.—This is the most frequent dislocation to which the ancle-joint is liable; the foot being thrown outwards, and its inner edge resting upon the ground, while the fibula is broken two or three inches above the joint. [This dislocation may be complete or incomplete, but is most frequently the latter.] It was to this particular case,a8sociated with frac- ture of the fibula, that Mr. Pott drew the attention of surgeons; and the injuryis frequently still spoken of as Pott's fracture or Potfs dislocation. " By leaping or jumping," he observes, " the fibula breaks within two or three inches of its lower ex- tremity. When this happens, the inferior fractured end of the fibula falls inwards towards the tibia; that extremity of the bone which forms the outer ancle is turned somewhat outward and upward; and the tibia having lost its proper support, andnot being of itself capable of preserving its true perpendicular bearing, is forced off from the astragalus inwards, by which means the weak bursal, or common li- gament of the joint, is violently stretched, if not torn, and the strong ones which fasten the tibia to the astragalus and os calcis are always lace- rated; thus producing at the same time a perfect fracture and a partial dislocation, to which is sometimes added a wound in the integuments made by the bono at the inner ancle. By this means, and, indeed, as a necessary consequence, all the tendons which pass behind or under, or are attached