FRACTURE facililate ihe Treatment of Fraetures, &,-c. 8vo. Lond. 1833.) In France, the preference is given to Scultetus's bandage in almost every instance where we employ the eighteen-tailed one, from which it principally diifers in being composed of separate transverse pieces admitting of removal, so that when a part of the bandage is soiled it can be taken away, and a clean piece (first stitched to that which is about to be removed), drawn under the limb, without distMbing the whole of the dressings! Dupuytren was partial to this bandage, not only in cases of compound fracture, but others where a frequent change of parts of the bandage was rendered necessary by the discharge. As a general remark, we may say, that some appaiatus of the foregoing kinds, a double oblique plane, or else splints, are unquestionably the most eiBcient of all the applications made to a broken limb, with the view of keeping the ends of the fracture steady, and in a proper state of contact. "Splints," says Pott, "are generally made of pasteboard, wood, or some resisting kind of stuff, and are ordered to be applied lengthways on the broken limb ; in some cases three, in others four ; for the more steady and quiet detention of the fracture. " That splints, properly made and judiciously applied, are very serviceable, is beyond all doubt ; but their utility depends much on their size, and the manner in which they are applied. " The true and proper use of splints is to preserve steadiness in the whole limb, without compressing the fracture at all By the former they become very assistant to the curative in- tention : by the latter they are very capable of causing pain and other inconveniences ; at the same time that they cannot, in the nature of things, contribute to the steadiness of the limb. " In order to be of any real use at all, splints should, in the case of a broken leg, reach above the knee, and below the ankle ; should be only two in number, and should be so guarded with tow, rag, or cotton, that they should press only on the joints, and not at all on the fr'acture. " By this they become really serviceable ; but a short splint, which extends only a little above and a little below the fracture, and does not take in the two joints, is an absurdity, and what is worse, it is a mischievous absurdity. " By pressing on both joints, they keep not only them, but the foot steady ; by pressing on the fracture only, they cannot retain it in its place, if the foot be in the smallest degree displaced ; but they may, and frequently do, occasion mis- chief, by rudely pressing the parts covering the fracture against the edges and inequalities of it." —(See Foil's Chir. Works, vol. i. p. 298, cScc. edit. 1808.) Splints, double oblique planes, and other kinds of support for broken limbs, must always be lined with pads of tow, oat-cliaff, or other soft matoriais, 101- otlierwise their pressure would cause severe pain, inflammation, ulceration, and even sloughing. Assalini strongly disapproves of the employmoiit ot all tight bandages, and of covering the whole of a broken linib with splints. In a case of trans- verse fracture of the patella, be laid the limb upon concave splint, the shape of which was adapted w tlie under surface of a part of the leg and thigh No bandage was used, merely two leathern straps, winch crossed upon the knee, and included the frac ured bone. A perfect bony union was thus easily effected. Assalini afterwards extended the use of a concave splint, applied under the limb, to fractures of the leg and thigh. In the first of these cases however, only the thigh is received 111 the hollow splint, and from this two lateral splints go along the leg. The apparatus has also a kind of sole for the support of the foot. As this simple contrivance is fastened with a very few straps, and no plasters or bandages are used, the surgeon has constantly a view of the whole front of the limb, and of the fractured part of it In compound fractures, he covers the wound with linen compresses, wet with cold water. {Manuale dt Chirurgia, Farte prime, 1812.) See Splint So convinced is Baron Larrey of the advantage of keeping broken limbs perfectly motionless, after tbey have been properly set, that he sometimes employs an apparatus which moulds itself to the shape of the limb, then hardens, and remains apphed during the whole of the treatment, unless circumstances call for its earlier removal. The apparatus is made by wetting the pads, com- presses, and bandages in a lotion, containing the acetate of lead and white of egg, which, when it has dried, leaves the apparatus sufficiently hard and stiff to afford full support and steadiness to the limb, with the advantage of being most perfectly accommodated to the exterior of it. This plan is followed, not merely in simple, but compound fractures, and when there is a necessity for re- moving the patient any distance, is found by Larrey highly expedient. [An apparatus of this-nature, " apjjareil inam- ovihle, IS now in very common use in the treat- ment of fractures. One of the most strenuous advocates of the method is M. Seutin of Brussels, and thick starch is the material wliicii he employs to stiffen the apparatus. A dry roller is first ap- plied round the fractured limb, underneath which layers of cotton-wool may be placed to protect the prominences of the limb from injurious pressure.- The outer surface of the bandage is then smeared with the starch, and two splints of pasteboard, softened by soaking in water, are placed one on each side of the limb. The pasteboard should be torn rather than cut, in order that its edges, when it dries, may be less sharp and cutting. The pasteboard is to be retained in its place and moulded to the shape of the limb by another ban- dage, and this also is to be covered by lavers of starch, laid on smoothly with the hand or "with a brush. When the apparatus becomes dry a firm and solid case is obtained, and the patient may be allowed, in fractures of the lower extremity, to leave his bed and walk about on crutches, without danger of displacing the fracture. The drying is not complete for thirty-six or fortj'-eight"hours, and during that time it is necessary to pay careful attention to the position of the limb, as the ap- paratus does not yet possess the requisite firmness to prevent displacement occurring. For this pur- pose temporary splints may be applied over the starched bandage, or, as M. Seutin jirefers, a mould formed from an appaiatus which iias been already used in a similar case. When completely dry, M. Seutin divides it longitudinally with strong scissors or cutting pliers made for the pur- pose, and examines the limb to see whether any