644 EXFOL] has been burnt by the actual or potential cautery, all that has been submitted to the action of this application, loses its sensibility and vital principle, becomes hard, rough on the surface, and of a black or grey colour, forming what is properly named an eschar, a slough, produced by caustics, or actual lire. ESCHAROTICS (from iaxapSai, to form a crust over). Applications, which form an eschar, or deaden the surface on which they are put. By escharotics, however, surgeons commonly under- stand the milder kinds of caustics, such as the hjdrargyri nitrico-oxydum, the nitrate of silver, sub- acetate of capper, &c. EX^RESIS (from e^aipdu, to remove). One of the divisions of surgery adopted by the old surgeons ; the term implies the removal of parts. EXCORIATION (from excorio, to take off the skin). A separation of the cuticle; a soreness, merely affecting the surface of the skin. EXFOLIATION (from eafolio, to cast the leaf). The process by which a dead piece of bone is separated from the living is termed exfoliation. One part of a bone is never separated from another by the rotting of the dead part, for what comes away is as firm as it ever was. Before any part of a bone can be throne off by exfoliation, it must be dead. But, even then, till the process of exfolia- tion begins, the bone adheres as strongly as ever, and would remain for years, before it could be separated by putrefaction alone. A dead bone acts on the system, in the same manner as any other extraneous bodj'. It stinmlates the adjacent living parts, in consequence of which, such a process is begun, as must terminate in its being thrown off. The effects of this stimulus are, first, that the living adjacent bone becomes more vascular; a cir- cumstance which always takes place when a part has more to do than is just sufficient for the sup- port of life. Secondly, that the earth of the living part, when it is in contact with the dead bone, is absorbed ; and there the bone becomes softer, and adheres by its animal matter only. As Mr.Wilson has stated, " before any mark of separation is seen on the surface, the living bone surrounding the dead, for the extent of a mere line, has become as soft as if it had been steeped in acid." (Oti the Skeleton and Diseases ofilie Bone, p. 281, 8vo. Lond. 1820.) Thirdly, that the living animal part is at last absorbed along the surface of con- tact; this part of the process commences, however, long before the removal of the earthy matter is finished ; and both of these processes begin at the surface; though, in their course, they do not every where take place in an equal degree at the same time Fourth]}'-, in proportion to the waste made by this ulcerative absorption, granulations arise from the living surface, and fill up the intermediate space, so that there is no vacuum. These different stages together constitute ulceration. When any part of a bone is once loose, it is pushed to the surface in the same manner as most other inanimate bodies would be, and this stage is partly mechani- cal, and partly a continuation of ulceration. A proof of the third stage, above mentioned, may be derived from cases in which people die while exfoliation is going on. A small groove, or worm- eaten canal, can then be discovered, which becomes gradually deeper, and fi)llows the irregularities of the living and dead surfaces. After the applica- tion of the trepan, an annular piece of bone is frequently thrown off, which is always less thai, the space from which it came. This, as Mr Hunter observed, would never be the case, were there not a loss of substance. However, in what manner this loss of substance is produced, has fre- quently been a question, many pathologists, and amongst them, I believe, is Mr. Gulliver, adopting the belief, that dead bone is not absorbed. " Although (says Mr. Wilson) in general the absorption takes place in the living bone, it still appears, that, under peculiar circumstances, the absorbing vessels have the power of acting on and removing the substance of dead bone. This hap- pens after the dead part has been separated from the living, and when, from its shape, and the form of the living surrounding bone, it is prevented from obtaining a passage to the surface of the body ; as in exfoliations of the cranium, when the inner table of the exfoliated part is broader and wider than the outer table." (Ore tlie Skeleton, ^c. p. 282.) In very hard bones, the colour of the dead exfoliating portion is generally white ; but, in softer bones, it is yellow, dark, and sometimes black. ( WilsoTi, op. cit.) It was anciently believed, that whenever a bone was denuded, the exposed surface must necessarily exfoliate ; and this being taken for granted, the old surgeons used to put immediately in practice whatever they thought best calculated to bring on an exfoliation as quickly as possible. For this purpose, the actual cautery was usually applied to the part of the bone, which was uncovered ; and as, under such treatment, a portion of the bone was of course killed, and then exfoliated, the pre- judiced practitioner believed, that he had only accelerated a process, which must of necessitj' have followed in a more slow and tedious manner. According to Mr. Hunter, neither caustics nor the actual cautery hasten exfoliation ; they only produce death in a part of the bone, which is the first step towards exfoliation ; and if they ever hasten exfoliation, when the bone is already dead it must be by producing inflammation in the adja- cent living bone ; a change that makes it exert a power of which it was previously incapable. Exfoliation is not a necessary consequence of a bone being laid bare, and deprived of its perios- teum. If the bone be in other respects uninjured, healthy, and enjoy a vigorous circulation of blood through its texture, granulations will be generated on the surface of such bone, and they will cover and firmly adhere to it, without the smallest ex- foliation being thrown off; especially in j-oung subjects. But, if caustic, stimulating, or drying applications be made use of, or the bone be left for a considerable time exposed, the circulation in the superficial portion of it will necessarily be dis- turbed and destroyed, and that part of the surface, through which the circulation ceases to be carried on, will be separated, and cast off, by the process of exfoliation. If any application to fin exfoliating portion of bone be at all elRcacious, it must be one which will stop the mortification in the affected bone, and promote the absorption of those particles of phos- phate of lime, which form the connection between that which is living and that which is actually dead. And as the bone dies from the same causes as the soft parts mortify, we should at least follow in practice the same principles which we adopt in