586 l^ISLOCATION. [Dislocations at the Medio-tarsal Arti- culation.] [The medio-tarsal articulation is the joint formed by the astragalus and os calcis behind, and the scaphoid and cuboid bones in front. J. L. Petit, in 1723, was the first to speak of dislocation occurring at this part of the foot; he states that two cases had come under his observation. His description, however, is very vague and obscure, (hee Mqlgaigne, Traitc des Fraot. t. ii. p. 1072.) The following case has since been recorded by Sir A. Cooper, but this also is not so explicit as might be wished. "A man working at Southwark Bridge had the misfortune to have a stone of great weight glide gradually on his foot. He was brought to Guy s Hospital, and the following were the ap- pearances of the foot. The os calcis and astragalus remained in their natural situation, but the fore part of the foot was turned inwards upon these bones. When examined by the students, the appearance was so precisely like that of a club foot that they could not at first believe that it was not a natural defect of that kind, but upon the as- surance of the man that previously to the accident his foot was not distorted, an extension was made by fixing the leg and the heel, the fore part of the foot was then drawn outwards, and thus the re- duction was effected. This person was discharged from the hospital in five weeks, having the complete use of his foot." {Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations Cooper s edition, p. 336.) Another case of this kind has been mentioned by Mr. Liston. It occurred in a bricklayer's boy, ajt. 14, who fell from a height of forty feet and alighted on the extremity of his right foot. The ligaments on the dorsal surface of the foot appeared to have started, the scaphoid and cuboid bones projected a little upwards from theii- usual situation. The foot was half an inch shorter than the other one. The leg was elevated, fomentations, &c. were applied, but no attempt was made to replace the misplaced bones. In about three weeks he left the hospital: he was able to stand on the foot. The instep appeared higher than the other one, the foot was shorter by half an inch, and had a somewhat clubbed appearance. (Pract. Surg. 4th ed. p, 136,)] [Dislocations of the Scaphoid Bone.] [A case has been reported by Mr, Burnett of Alton, in which the scaphoid bone was dislocated from the cuneiform bones, and protruded through the skin, together with tlie head of the astragalus, which bone was also partially dislocated from the OS calcis and from the tibia. It occurred in a gentleman, eet. 60, who after taking a leap, while hunting, suddenly found his right foot become dis placed. His usual habit was to ride in his stirrup, his foot resting on its outer side. The foot was dis ocated inwards, at right angles with the leg, and two bones projected througii a wound about throe inches in length extending across the outer ancle. The upper of these, the os naviculare, had Piojected Its cuneiform surface outwards and for- wards in o^li,^^^ direction, and the other bone was the astragalus, which was also driven forwards a. d outwards, and presented that surface which in «s natural condition would be in contact with the pressure for nearly a tpiarter of an hour upon the prorament OS navicularo, in the direction of the jomt, to which he was directed by the end of the ast air JT/"'''^'- ^"-^^ '''^ tS' astragd us. At the expiration of this time the bones slipped mto their proper places, and the foot resumed its natural character The patient r« covered favourably. (See Lond. vo ' XIX. p. 221, Nov 1836.) This case appears to have been one of double dislocation of ihllsivlZ ZtT f k'-" ^""^ ^""^ the astragalus, nstead of being as usual dislocated from the caphoid had carried that bone with it, sepa- uting It from its attachments,with the cuneifoWn Three cases of dislocation of the scaphoid bone have been observed in which it was separated liom Its astragaloid as well as from its cuneiform articulations. In one, related by M. Pieda-rnel the bone was fractured at the junction of its o°utei' third with its inner two-thirds ; the outer portion remained connected with the cuboid, but the inner and larger was dislocated inwards, and was ex- posed through a lacerated wound at the inner side ot the foot. The projecting part of the scaphoid was taken for the head of the astragalus, and attempts were made to reduce it, but without success; gangrene set in the next day, and the leg was amputated, when the real condition of the parts was discovered. The accident occurred from the foot being caught between the pavement and the vyheel of a carriage. M. Piedagnel found, on examining the limb after it had been removed, that by puUing upon the metatarsus, and turning it torcibly outwards, reduction was easily eftected, (bee Malgaigm, t. ii. p. 1073.) Another case in which the bone was dislocated upwards, without wound in the skin, has been recorded by Dr. Walker of Peterborough. It occurred in a mason, who in stepping from one wall to another, stepped short, so that his toes only rested upon the wall, and the weight of his body was therefore thrown upon the anterior part of the foot. He felt that his foot was bent upwards, and that something gave way. There was a bold pro- jection on the dorsum of the foot, in the situation of the scaphoid bone, and a corresponding depres- sion beneath. He could bend or extend the ancle-joint without difficulty. The reduction was attempted by making direct pressure upon the dislocated bone, but without success. The foot was then forcibly depressed, and this movement having probably enlarged the space between the astragalus and cuneiform bones, the reduction took place with a distinct snap. A slight tendency to recurrence of tlie displacement was counteracted by plaster and bandage, and at the end of three weeks the patient was able to return to his work. When examined, three months afterwards, there was no remaining appearance of injury. He had no pain, and the motions of the foot were perfect. (See Frov. Med. and Surg.Journ. 1850, p. 563.) The third case was observed by Mr. R. W. Smith. The accident had happened several years previousl}'. The scaphoid bone had been dislocated inwards and liad remained unreduced. It was caused by the patient's horse falling with him and lying across his foot, which was entangled in the stirrup. There was a projection at the inner edge of the dorsum of the foot in front of the Iiead of the astragalus, and a remarkable flattening of the plantar region. When seen by Mr. Smith, the