the inferior and posteriov side of the wrethra; and the same thing is insisted upon by the best practical sursreons in France : —" If the end of the catheter were directed too much against the lower side ot the m-ethra," says M. Velpeau, " it would pass with difficulty, and be likely to hitch first m the fossa navicularis,then in the excavation atthe bulp, and next in the prostatic depression, and make m one of these situations a false passage. By making the beak keep regularly along the upper side, such accidents will be avoided, unless it.be raised too much," &c. He adds, that even this erroneous direction, if not excessive, will be attended with no real inconvenience, except between the crura penis^ and the part of the urethra just in front of the symphysis of the pubes. (See Velpeaii, Nouv. mm. de Mkl. Opb: t. iii. p. 915.) The skill ap- pears to this surgeon, as it did long ago to Hey and Brodie, to consist in guiding the catheter, in the axis of the urethra, from the glans to the bladder, keeping it lightly resting against the dorsal side of the passage. (See also Malyaigne, Man. da Med. Opir. p. 650.) . . If the surgeon uses a flexible gum catheter, is of great consec[uence to have the stilet made of some firm metallic substance, and of a proper thickness. If the stilet is too slender, the catheter will not preserve the same curvature during the operation ; and it will be difficult to luake the point pass upwards behind the symphysis pubis in a proper direction. If the stilet is too thick, it is withdrawn with difficult}'. When the stilet is of a proper thickness, this instrument has one advantage over the silver ca- theter, which is, that its curvature may be increased while it is in the urethra, which is often of great use, when the point approaches the prostate gland. In all cases where an elastic gum catheter is to be worn, care must be taken that it does not pass unnecessarily far into the bladder ; and, if it be too long, a part of it ought to be cut off, or a shorter one employed. . When the proper manoeuvres with a given silver catheter do not succeed, the surgeon must change it, taking a larger or a more slender one, with a greater or less curve, according to such observa- tions as he may have made in his first attempt. But, if the catheter has been of a good form or commodious size, yet has not passed easily, he should, instead of choosing a rigid catheter ot another size or form, take a flexible one for his second attempt. The flexible catheter is made ol various sizes, and of sufficient length, and its shape may be accommodated to all occasions and to all forms of the urethra : for, having a stiff wire, we can give that wire, either before or after it has been passed into the catheter, whatever shape we please ; and, what is of still greater importance, we can introduce the instrument without or with tlie wire, as circumstances may require ; or what more advantageous, we can introduce the w so as not (luite to reach the point of the catheter but only to within two inches or a little more of this part, by which contrivance the point, if previously warmed, and wrought in the hand, has so much flexibility, that it follows the precise curve of the urethra, and yet has sufficient rigidity to surninnnt any slight resistance. If this too fail, and especially if there be the slightest reason to suspect that the resistance is not merely sjiaamodic, but arises from Stricture near the neck of the bladder, in a young CATHETER. ' '^"'^ man, or swelling of the prostate in an old one, we may take a small bougie, turn up the extremity of it with the finger and thumb, so as to make it in- cline towards the pubes, and, allowing no time for the wax to be softened, pass it quickly down to the obstruction, turn it with a vertical or twisting ino- tion, and make it enter the constricted part. On withdrawing it, in about ten minutes or a quarter witiiuniwiiia IV, — - - - 4.1, of an hour, the urine generally escapes, or the catheter may now be introduced. (John Bell s Principles of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 21o.) _ Mr Hey found, that, m withdrawing the stilet of an elastic gum catheter, the instrument becomes more curved; and he availed himself of this in- formation, by withdrawing the stdet, as he intro- duced the catheter beyond the arch of the pubes, by which artifice the point was raised in the due direction. He says, you may sometimes, though not always, succeed in introducing an elastic gum catheter, by using one which has acquired a con- siderable degree of curvature and firmness, by having had a curved stilet kept in it a long while. Introduce this without the stilet, with its concavity towards the abdomen, taking care not to push on the point of the instrument, after it has reached the symphysis pubis, until its handle is depressed into a horizontal position. Sir Benjamin Brodie, in speaking of retention of urine from diseased prostate gland, advises sur- geons to provide themselves with a sufficient num- ber of gum catheters, "mounted not on small flexible straight wires, but on strong iron stilets, having the curve of a silver catheter. The stilets, which belong to the larger gum catheters, should have flattened iron handles, resembling that of a common sound. Like Mr. Hey, he approves of keeping catheters, thus prepared, for a considerable time before they are wanted for use; they will then become fixed in the proper curvature. With the stilet, such a catheter is as inflexible as if it were made of silver ; without it, it is capable of retaining its shape to a certain extent, yet it is flex- ible. Sir B. Brodie always first tries to pass such an instrument. In' difficult cases, he admits that the gum catheter without the stilet will not succeed. He concurs with all experienced surgeons, that, in chronic enlargement of the prostate gland, a ca- theter, large enough to fill the urethra, without stretching it, is more easy of introduction than a small one; and that the stilet ought to be con- siderably curved. {OnDis. of the Urinary Orgims, 144 ed. 2.) Speaking of catheters, another excellent modern practitioner remarks, " Elles pdne'trent d'autant niieux, toute proportion gaide'e, que leur volume est plus considdrable." ( Velpeau, Nouv. Elan, dc Med Oper. t. iii. p. 912.) When it is necessary to dravv off the urine frequently, and the surgeon cannot attend often enough for this purpose, a catheter must be left in the urethra, till an attendant, or the patient him- self, has learnt the mode of introducing the instru- ment. In cases of retention of urine, where the bladder iias been over distended, it is an unsettled point, whether it is best to leave the catheter in the urethra, until tlio power of expelling the urine has been regained, or to drawolT the urine twice adaj', and withdraw the catheter after each operation. Mr. Hey thinks, that im general rule can bo laid down; some patients cannot bear the catheter to remain introduced; otlicrs seem to suffer no incon-