746 FRACTURE. Fractures of the Sliafl of the Femur. The shaft of the thigh-bone is liable to be broken at any point ; but it ia in the middle third of this extent that fractures mostly occur, which are some- times transverse, but more frequently oblique. The latter direction of the injury makes a serious dif- ference in the difficulty of curing the case with- out future deformity or lameness. Sometimes the fracture is comminuted, the bone being broken in more places than one; and sometimes the case is attended with a wound, communicating with the fracture, and making it what is termed com pound. As Petit remarks, however, the thigh- bone is less seldom broken into several pieces than other bones more superficially situated. [Fractures of the femur are not unfrequent in children, in whom they are more common than fractures of the leg, whereas the reverse is the case in the adult.] A fractured thigh is attended with the followino- symptoms: acute pain at the instant of the accf dent; a sudden inability to move the limb; a pre- ternatural mobility of one portion of the bone • a distinct crepitus, if the two ends of the fracture rub against each other; deformity, in regard to the length, thickness, and direction of the limb. The latter change, viz. the deformity, ought to be accurately understood ; for, having a continual tenden^cy to recur, especially in oblique fractures, the chief difficulty in the treatment is to prevent it. (Pesaidt, par Bichal, t. i. p. 181.) Almost all fractures of the thigh are attended with deformit}'. When this is considered, in re- lation to length, it appears that, in oblique frac- tures,_ the broken limb is always shorter than the opposite one ; a circumstance denoting that the ends of the fracture ride over each other. We may also easily convince ourselves, by examin- ation, that the deformity is owing to the lower end of the fracture having ascended above the upper one, which remains stationary. For the purpose of exemplifying the power of the muscles to displace the ends of the fracture, mention is made, in Desault's works, of a carpen- ter who fell from a scaffold and broke his thigh. The limb, the next day, was as long as the other; but the man had a complete palsy of his lower extremities, and could not discharge his urine. The moxa was applied, the muscles soon regained their power, and then the shortening of the limb began to make its appearance. Besides the action of muscles, there is another cause of displacement. However firm the bed may be on which the patient is laid, the buttocks, more prominent than the rest of the body, soon form a depression in the bedding, and thence fol- lows an inclination in the plane on which the trunk lies, which, gliding from above downward, pushes before it the upper end of the fracture, and makes it ride over the lower one. The muscles, irritated by the points of bone, increase their contraction, and draw upward the lower part of the bone; and from this double motion of the two ends of the fracture in opposite directions, their riding over each other results. Transverse fractures are less liable to be dis- placed in the longitudinal direction of the bone, iJecause, when once in contact, the ends of the nacture form a mutual resistance to each other • ine lower end, drawn upward by the muscles, meets with resistance from tiie upper one, which being Itself inclined downward by the weight o he trunk, pushes the former before it, and thus i both retain their position in relation to each other Ihe deformity of a fractured thigh, in the ransverse direction, always accompanies that In? ",,^°"g.""d".al ; but sometimes it exists alone. f his is the case when, in a transverse fracture, one end of the bone is carried outward, while the other is separated. The upper end of he fracture IS not now, as in the foregoing instance, motionless m regard to the muscular action; for he contraction of the pectineus, psoas, iliacus in- ernus, and upper part of the triceps, draws it from Its natural direction, and contributes to dis- place it. The deformity of the limb, in regard to its direction, is either the consequence of the blow which produced the fracture, or, what is more common, of the ill-directed exertions of persons who carry the patient. Thus, an injudicious pos- ture will bend the bone so as to make an angle Whatever may be the kind of deformity, the lower end of the fracture may retain the natural position m which it is placed, or else undergo a rotatory motion on its axis outward, which is very common, or inward, which is more unusual. This rotation always aggravates the displaced state of the fracture, and should be attended to in the re- duction. (DesauU, t. i. p. 180, 185.) [Fractures in the upper third of the shaft, or just below the trochanter minor, are especially subject to distortion. According to Sir A. Cooper the upper end of the broken bone is drawn for- wards and upwards, so as to form nearly a rieht angle with the body, and the cause of this position IS evidently the contraction of the iliacus internus and psoas muscles, assisted by the pectineus, and perhaps by the first head of the triceps. {0,i Dislocations, ^c. B. Cooper's edition, p. 190.) il. Malgaigne has questioned the correctness of Sir A. Cooper's statement. According to him, it is an an- gular displacement oulioards rather than forwards which really takes place; and he attributes it to the action of the powerful muscles on the internal part of the thigh, which represent the cord of an arc formed by the neck and shaft of the femur. When the arc is broken, these muscles act so as to approximate the extremities without encounter- ing any resistance. On the contrary, the muscles which are inserted into the great trochanter only favour the movement of abduction which carries the superior fragment outwards.—He lias never seen the displacement forwards carried to the ex- tant indicated by Sir A. Cooper and Boyer, and believes that it is often absent altogether," or that wiien present it is only sligiitly marked, and in combination with the displacement outwards. Fracttiro just above Ihe comlyles of the femur sometimes happens, and, according to Sir A. Cooper, is usually oblique from behind downwards and for- wards. The appearances produced by it are that the lower and broken extremity of the'shaft of the bone projects, and forms a siiarp point just above the patella, which pierces the vasti muscles and threatens to tear the skin, and sometimes does so; whilst the patella, tibia, and condyles of the femur sink into the ham, and are drawn upwards behind the broken extremity of the shaft of the os femoris. The accident is likely to happen when a person falls from a considerable height upon his feet, or is