445 CATHETER, reached the bulb (the urethra and perhieal fascia being fully exposed), if it deviates to either side, the point will be observed to catch on the margin of the foramen ; but, if the urethra is drawn up- wards, the impediment will be removed by the widening of the aperture." (See Quains Anaiomij, p. 454, ed. 3.) With respect to the opinion, that the direction of the urethra becomes horizontal and its canal straight, when the penis is drawn directly forwards. Dr. Quain states, that, when the penis is so placed, the urethra has to descend nearly an inch, to reach the urethral aperture iu the deep perineal fascia, after which it turns somewhat up- wards. "Moreover, the part of the urethra, between the root of the penis cand the neck of the bladder, will be found loose and relaxed, no matter with what degree of force the penis be drawn forwards ; for that will aifoct only the part of the urethra which corresponds with the body of the organ, as must be evident, when the attachments of the latter to the bones by its suspensory ligament and crura are considered." {Quain, op. cit. p. 455.) Whether the m-ethra can be made to accommo- date itself to a straight instrument, is another ques- tion. The urethra is naturally not straight, nor nearly so. If it had been straight, it would have extended in the direction of the bulb, in a line, that would pass above the anus to the point of the 03 coccygis. " Instead of this (aslcs M. Velpeau) what happens ? The urethra gradually disengages itself from the corpus spongiosum and the whole of the bulb, to pass through the deep perineal fascia, enter the pelvis, and terminate at least two inches above the level of the anus, and conse- quently higher up than the line above specified." (See Nuuv. Elhn. de Med. Oper. t. iii. p 911.) When, however, the symphysis is short, the pro- state not much thickened, the urethra passing through it nearer to its lower than its upper surface, and the pelvis is wide, M. Velpeau alleges, that, extending the penis will efface a good deal of this curve, and allow straight instruments (which on their part also press downwards, with more or less force, the bottom of the prostatic portion of the urethra, and the neck of the bladder) to be con- veyed without much difficulty into the latter or- gan. The latter fact we see exemplified every day : the question whether the curve can be el- faced by drawing the penis forwards, is easily settled by an examination instituted in the way proposed by Dr. Quain. For additional obser- vations on the surgical anatomy of the urethra, see Urkthra. When the catheter is to be introduced with its concavity downwards, or by the " tour de maitrc, the beak is to be passed into the urethra, and the penis drawn over it, as it were, as in the foregoing method. In other words, the instrument, well oiled, is to be introduced, with its convexity upper- most, as far as it can be, without using force. As soon, however, as the end of the catheter has reached the point at which the canal begins to form a curve under the pubes, the surgeon is to make the instrument perform a semicircular movement, by inclining it first towards the left groin, and then towards the abdomen. In the execution of this man- ccuvro, care is to be taken to keep the beak of the catheter stationary, so that it may be the centre of the movement, and simply revolve upon itself. This part of the operation, the object of which is to turn the concavity of the catheter upwards, ought to be done very slowlj', a large sweep being made with the handle, while particular care is taken not trf retract, nor move the beak from its position. The handle is then to be depressed, and the operation finished exactly in the same manner as when the first plan is pursued. As Desault properly observes, the only circumstance in which the first two methods differ from the third, is, that in this the same thing is performed by two movements, which is done in the others by one ; so that the operation is rendered more complex. No doubt there is great difficulty in keeping the point of the catheter entirely sta- tionary during the semi-circular movement of the handle. Indeed, it is alleged, that if, after laying bare the urethra and the deep perineal fascia in the dead subject, " a catheter be passed down with its concavity turned towards the perineum, we shall find, that, as the turn is being made, the point of the instrument will describe the arc of a circle, carrying the uretin-a with it round the margin of the urethral foramen," and an impediment will occur, unless the urethra is kept perfectly tense. (See Quain's Anatomy, p. 455, ed. 3.) Hence, many judicious surgeons never practice the "tour de maitre," except when their patients are cor- pulent ; and, indeed, many of them not then, as they prefer the method, which is begun with the handle of the catheter inclined towards the patient's left groin. In treating retention of urine from diseased prostate gland, " I generally find," says an able surgeon, " that I introduce the ca- theter best by keepmg the handle of it at first close to the left groin of the patient. I pass it, as far as possible, in this position ; then I bring the handle forwards, nearly at a right angle to the pubes, and not elevating it towards the patient's navel. The next thing is to depress the handle, which is to be done gently and slowly, by placing a single finger on it, and pressing it downwards towards the space between the thighs. In depress- ing the handle, you generally find the point of the catheter slide into the bladder. Sometimes, however, this does not happen, until (supposing an elastic catheter to be used) yon withdraw the stiiet ; and, in the act of doing this, the introduc- tion of the catheter is completed." In many in- stances, the operation will be best accomplished by taking care, at the moment when the handle is depressed, to keep the concave surface closely pressed against the arch of the pUbes, so that it may turn round it as a centre. {Drodie, On Dis. of Urin. Onjans, p. 145, ed. 2.) The depth to which the catheter has entered the urethra, the cessation of any feeling of resistance to the motions of the benk when revolved upon its axis, and the issue of the urine, are the circumstances by which the surgeon knows, that the instrument 1ms passed into the bladder. In most persons, the signs denoting the entrance of the instrument into the bladder, arc sufficiently clear. But, in certain instances several of thorn may bo absent, and the diagnosis be so obscure as to embarrass the sur- geon. Then, if thick nuicus, or clots of blood, fill the eyes of the catheter, the urine will not flow. Again, when the bladder is empty, or contracted, the catheter may enter to so inconsiderable a depth, tlie elevation and depression, and the rotation of it to the right, or left, may be so limited, that doubts may exist about the situation of its beak, A large collection of blood in the anterior half of the bladder may cause deception, as no urine will