364 CjESAREAN OPERATION. CESAREAN OPERATION. Called.'also Hysterotomia, from vffTepa, tcterus, and to/x^i, seciio. Pliny, book vii. chap. 9 of his Natural. History, gives us the etymology of it as follows : " Auspi- catiiis (says he) enecla parenle gignuntur, sicut Scipio Africanus prior nalus, primusque Ccesar a ccBSO matris utero diclus ; qua de causa cwsones appellati. Simili inodo natus est Manlius qui Car- thaginem cum exercitu intravit." Whether this explanation be correct or not, it is now difficult to settle. According to Bayle, Aurelia, Caasar's mother, was living at the period when that warrior invaded Britain, so that, if he were taken out of the womb by this proceeding, the life of the mother was also saved. Although the etymology and first practice of the Caesarean operation are points involved in obscurity, its great antiquity is ge- nerally admitted; and this notwithstanding no description of it is to be found in the works of Hippocrates, Celsus, Paulus .^giueta, or Albucasis. The earliest account of it in any medical work, is that in the Chirurgia Guidonis de Cauliaco, pub- lished about the middle of the fourteenth century. Here, however, the practice is only spoken of as proper after the death of the mother. (See Cap. de Eixtraciione Foetus.) Vigo, who was born to- wards the close of the fifteenth century, takes no notice of the Csesarean operation; and Pare, who greatly improved the practice of midwifery, thinks this measure only allowable on women who die undelivered. {De Hominis Generalione, cap. 31.) Rousset, who was contemporary with Pare, col- lected the histories of several cases, in which the operation was successfully performed ; and, after their publication, the subject excited more general iaterest. [Sir F. Ould, 1742, is the first British author, according to Dr. Churchill, who notices the opera- tion, which, he says, may be performed " either while the mother is living, or after her death, according to the nature of the circumstances." Smellie, 1751, takes, as usual, a sound common sense view of this matter : — " When a woman," he observes, " cannot be delivered by any of the methods hitherto prescribed and recommended in laborious and preternatural labours, on account of the narrowness or distortion of the pelvis, into which it is sometimes impossible to introduce the hand; or from large excrescences or glandular swellings that fill up the vagina, and cannot be removed; or from large cicatrices in that part and at the OS uteri, >vhich cannot be separated; in such emergencies, if the woman is strong and of a good habit of body, the Csesarean operation is certainly advisable, and ought to bo performed; because the mother and child have no other chance to be saved, and it is better to have recourse to an operation which has sometimes succeeded, than leave tliem both to inevitable death." (See Churchill''s Theory and Fraclice of Midwifery, p. 378, 379, ed. 3.)] By the Cesarean Operation is commonly un- derstood that in which the foetus is taken out of the uterus, by an incision made through the pa- rietes of the abdomen and womb. The term, liowever, in its most comprehensive sense, is ap- plied to three different proceedings. It is some- times employed to denote the incision which is occasionally practised on the cervix uteri in order to facilitate delivery ; but this particular method 18 named the Vaginal Ccesarcan Operation, for the purpose of distinguishing it from the former, which is frequently called, by way of contrast, the Ab- domi7ial CcBsarean Operation. With these cases, we have also to class the incision which is made in the parietes of the abdomen for the extraction of the foetus, when, instead of being situated in the uterus, it lies in the cavity of the peritoneum, in consequence of the rupture of the womb, or in the ovary, or Fallopian tube, in consequence of an extra-uterine conception. Vaginal Caesarean Operation. Disease, malformation, or a preternatural po- sition of the cervix uteri, may render this practice indispensable. A fibro-cartilaginous hardness of the neck of the uterus is the most frequent cause. When the induration is such, that the cervix cannot be dilated, and the patient is exhausting herself with unavailing efforts, the parts should be divided in several directions. This has been successfully done under various circumstances. Cases have been met with in which the cervix uteri presented no opening at all, and yet the preceding operation proved quite effectual. Such was the example which Dr. Simpson inserted in the third vol. of the Edinb. Essays. A woman, forty years of age, became pregnant, after recovering from a difficult labour, in which the child had remained several days in the passage. She had been in labour sixty hours ; but the neck of the womb had no ten- dency to dilate. Dr. Simpson, perceiving that its edges were adherent, and left no opening betwixt them, determined to practise an incision, with the aid of a speculum uteri. The bistoury penetrated to the depth of half an inch before it got quite through the substance which it had to divide, and which seemed as hard as cartilage. As the opening did not dilate in the efforts whicli the woman made, it became necessary to introduce a narrow bistoury on the finger, in order to cut this kind of ring in various directions. There was no haemorrhage; and the only additional suffering which the patient encountered, arose from the distension of the vagina. As the child was dead. Dr. Simpson perforated the head, in order to ren- der delivery more easy. Strong convulsions at the moment of parturition may create a necessity for the vaginal Cajsarean operation. These sometimes subside, as soon as the membranes are ruptured, and the waters dis- charged, so as to lessen the distension of the womb. However, if the convulsions were to continue, and the cervix uteri were sufficientlj' dilated, the cliild should be extracted with the forceps, or by the feet, according to the kind of presentation. On this subject, Baudelocque has recorded a fact which was communicated to the Academy of Sur- gery bj^ Dubocq, professor of surgery at Toulouse. A woman, forty years of age, had been in convul- sions two days. She was alarmingly pale ; her pulse feeble, .and almost extinct; and her extremi- ties cold, and covered with a clammy perspiration. The edges of the opening, which was about as large as a crown piece, felt, as it were, callous ; and hardly had this aperture been dilated, when delivery took place spontaneously. The child was dead. The symptoms were appeased, and the woman experienced a perfect recovery. Another case, in which the indurated cervix uteri was successfully divided, is recorded by Lambron, a surgeon at Orleans. (See Diet, dcs Sciences Med. t. xxiii. p. 297.)