715 FRACTURE. been suggested by Dr. Stephen Brown, of New York, and is adopted in many parts of the United States. (See Am. Med. Recorder, vol. iv.; and Reese's Am. cd. of this Diet.) A simple and good apparatus for fractures of the clavicle and those of the neck of the scapula, was proposed many years ago by Mr. Earle. (Sec Praet. Ohs. on Siirgery, p. 187, &c.) It is also calculated for cases of dislocated clavicle, and other injuries of the shoulder. [An apparatus was contrived by Heister for making extension upon the clavicle in the required direction, namely, backwards and outwards. It consisted of two pieces of iron or wood joined to- gether in the form of the letter t, the perpendicular part being placed behind the patient's back and fixed with a strap round his waist, the transverse portion passing behind his shoulders and projecting outwards. To the extremities of this part the shoulders were fixed by straps passing round under the axilla. This transverse part of the instrument was so contrived as to be shortened or lengthened at pleasure, according to the width of the patient's shoulders and the degree of extension required. A drawing of this contrivance vviU be found in Mr. Lonsdale's Treatise on Fractures, p. 214. It seems well calculated to fulfil the indications al- ready insisted upon, but must have been extremely irksome to the wearer. Mr. Henry Lee has lately contrived a more con- venient instrument acting on similar principles. (See London Journal of Medicine,^e^t. 1857, p. 799.) He recommends it as specially adapted to cases complicated with fractures of the ribs, in which the usual pads and bandages might prove injurious.] The common figure of 8 bandage, with a sling, may be sufficient when the fracture is external to the coraco-clavicular ligaments ; but in other in- stances, it is prudent to attend more strictly to the indications pointed out by Desault. If surgeons understand why the shoulder should be kept out- ward, as well as backward and upward, in order to bring the fragments into the best apposition, they will have no difficulty in accompiisiiing it with a thick wedge-shaped pad, or sling, and a roller; and if not with these means, at all events with Boyer's or Earle's apparatus. Whatever method is followed, one principal in- dication is always to prevent the weight of the arm from drawing downward the external frag- ment ; and for this purpose, in England, a sling is generally preferred to bandages, or any of the apparatus sold in the shops. I cannot quit this subject without cautioning surgeons never to fall into the error of supposing the rising end of a broken clavicle to be that which is displaced. Although this is truly in its right situation, it has often boon made by injudicious pressure, to protrudu tlnough the integuments, one or two instances of which liavc fallen under my own observation. Fractures of the Scapula. [Fractures of the; scapula maybe divided into— 1, fractures of the body of the bone (including the spinous process and inferior angle, which latter some surgeons have coTisidercd separately) ; 2, frac- tures of the neck of the bono ; .'i, of the coracoid process ; and 4, of the acromion process.] Fractures of the body of the scapula are not corn- Won ; a circumstance explicable by ita deep and co- vered position, and its great mobility. Nor could such an accident arise without considerable direct violence. Fractures of the coracoid process, and of the neck of the scapula, are also rare; for though these parts may appear in the skeleton likely to be often broken, their deep situation in the living sub- ject, and the great mobility of the entire bone, ge- nerally saves them. Indeed, as Boyer says, they generally require great violence to break them, and then the contusion of the soft parts is a worse injury than the fracture itself: thus, this author has seen the coracoid process broken by the blow of the pole of a carriage, and the patient lost his life from the violence at the same time inflicted upon all the soft parts about the shoulder. {Mai. Cliir. t. iii. p. 161.) Fracture of the acromion is generally, stated to be more frequent, as might be expected from its prominence and superficial position. Mr. Lonsdale found, how- ever, out of a total of 1901 fractures, eighteen were of the scapula, and of these, eight were of the body, eight of the acromion process, two of the neck, and none of the coracoid process. Those of the acromion and lower angle are more troublesome to keep right; but the most serious cases are fractures of the coracoid process and neck of the bone, which cannot be kept right without great difficulty, and are said to be frequently fol- lowed by a considerable stiffness of the arm, in- ability to raise it, atrophy, and even paralysis. 1. [Fractures ofilie hody of the scapula are most commonly transverse or slightly oblique, but some- times the}'- are vertical, and then the spinous pro- cess is included in the fracture. They are always occasioned by direct violence, and therefore are mostly accompanied by much contusion of the soft parts, and sometimes by injury of the thoracic viscera. Unless the fracture'be in the neighbour- hood of the inferior angle, the displacement is usually slight, but some irregularity or unnatui-al mobility may generally be distinguished by tracing the margins of the bone, especially the posterior, or a crepitus may be felt when the hand is laid flat on the bone and the patient's arm is moved about. If the fracture be in the vertical direction irregularity will be felt, and crepitus will be pro- duced by tracing the spinous process with the fingers.] When the lower angle is broken, the serratus major anticus draws it forward, while the rest of the scapula remains in its natural situation ; or, if the angular portion be considerable, the teres major and some fibres of the latissimus dorsi contribute to its displacement forward and upward. The detached portion also remains motionless, while the rest of tlie scapula is moved, and it is so separated, that no mistake can be made. Treatment. — When the scapula is fractured longitudinally or transvcrsel}', it is merely neces- sary to fix the arm to the side by means of a ban- dage, which includes the arm and trunk from the shoulder to the elbow. Thus the motions of the s]u)ukler, whicli are only concomitant with those of the arm, are prevented. A sling with one or two circles of a roller round the trunk and lower part (if the lunnerus would answor every purpose. Wiien the inferior angle is broken and drawn downward and forward by the serrat\i8 major anticus, tiie scapula must bo pushed toward the fragment by inclining the arm itself inward, down-