the pressure was discontinued. Thus it would appear, that 6 out of the 32 failed, being in the luoportion of 1 to 5-3 cases, and 2 died, being in tise ratio of 1 to 16. Of the 188 cases in which ■he artery was ligatured, 142 were cured, 46 died, 6 were amputated, in 10 the sac suppurated, and in 2 gangrene of the foot occurred. Thus the deaths after ligature were in the proportion of 1 to 4, and the failures or serious accidents, of 1 to 3, showing clearly' a very considerable preponderance in favour of the treatment by compression. Be- sides which, in many patients who recovered after the ligature, various accidents, such as gangrene, erysipelas, secondary hemorrhage, &c., resulted as the direct consequences of the treatment, and these do not happen when pressure is employed. If the compression fails, the ligature may then often be advantageously applied; and as has been shown by the known cases, with a better success than if compression had not previously been tried, that treatment having caused the collateral circula- tion to enlarge, and thus lessened the tendency to gangrene. It should also not be forgotten that in some cases, such as when aneurism is complicated with heart disease, or occurs in a very broken and un- healthy constitution, in which the operation neces- sary for the application of the ligature would scarcely, or not at all, be admissible, compression may be safely employed. After carefully considering the relative merits of the two plans of treatment, I think we may conclude that, though in some few cases neither method can be adopted, and amputation is the sole resource, yet, that in others compression can be employed when it would not be safe to have recourse to the use of the ligature; and that in all ordinary cases of femoral and popliteal aneu- rism especially, compression should be preferred to the ligature, inasmuch as it is not a more tedious, and ail infinitely safer method of cure. At the same time it must not bo forgotteu that its success depends very greatly on the continuous care be- stowed upon the case during the progress of the treatment.] ilUMPULATION, GALVANO-PUNCTtlRK, AND PERCHI,OKID£ OF mON. _ [Mr. Fergusson has proposed to treat some aneu- risins^by a procedure which he tonus "manipula- tion." This consists in squeezing the aneurisnial tumor in such a way as to detach a portion of the coagulum within it, which, being carried on with the current of blood into the distal end of the artery, obstructs this; and thus, i.y impeding the circulation through the sac, may lead to the gradual consolidation of the tumor. This procedure has as yet been employed to too limited an extent to enable us to form an estimate of its value, and can scarcely bo considered, nor is it intended to be of very general application. To such aneurisms, how- ever, that are not amenable to ordinary surgiciil treatment, as those situated at the root of tlie neck, more particularly of the subclavian artery, it might possibly be advantageously applied. It is scarcely necessary, however, to jjoint out the obvious dan- ger of rupture of the sac, or of the dilfusion of the aneurism on the separation of the coagulum, to make surgeons adopt due caution in carrying out this method of treatment. The attempt to procure consolidation of an aneu- ANEURISM. 165 risraal sac by the employment of electricity or gal- vanism is of comparatively recent date. It appears to have been first practised by Mr. B. Phillips, about the year 1832. Little attention, however, was given to this mode of treatment until a few years back, when it was revived by some of the French and Italian surgeons, especially by Petre- quin and Burci. The principle on which this operation is conducted consists in endeavouring to produce coagulation in tlie aneurisraal sac, by de- composing the blood contained in it, by means of the galvanic current. In some instances, the at- tempt to do this has induced, and, in all, it must occasion the liability to inflammation of the sac and of the surrounding structures ; as the change that is sought to be effected in the contained blood, consists not in the deposit of its fibrine, but in the coagulation of it en masse. It has of late been recommended to conjoin the employment of com- pression of the artery, either above or below the sac, with the transmission of the galvanic current through it, there being in this way less liability for the coagulum that is deposited to be broken down and washed awaj-, as would happen if the current of blood were allowed to pass through the sac whilst it is in the act of forming. The coagulation of the blood is effected by in- troducing two acupuncture needles into the sac in opposite directions, and keeping them in contact with one another, after connecting them with a galvanic battery of moderate tension, when coagu- lum becomes deposited around one of the needles. The operation should be continued for periods varying from ten minutes to a quarter of an hour, and requires to be repeated several times. Petre- quin recommends that the direction of the current be changed from time to time, so that a number of clots may be formed in the sac. In this way a soft mass of coagulum may occasionally be formed in the tumor, so as to fill it up more or less com- pletely, and to prevent the passage of blood through it. Occasionally it happens, however that the blood has continued fluid, and the sac pervious, no coagulation having been effected ; and in other instances, again, the amount of inflamma- tion that has been set up in the sac iias been so great as to give rise to its sloughing, to the occur- rence of secondary hemorrhage from it, and to the loss of the patient's limb or life. Tliis iiifianima- tion may, in some cases, doubtless, have been the result of the injury inllicted upon the sac by the introduction of the needles, and by the charring of the tissues by them ; but, in other c;ises I think it probable that it may have taken place from the rapid coagulation of the contained blood an occurrence that wo have already seen tends especially to nillannnatiou, sup|,uraiion, and slouch- ing ol the aneurismal sac. The paiu of the ooera- t,un .s always very considerable, so much so,'that patients who have been subjected to it once have refused to submit to-a repetiiiou of it Up to July, 185i, M. Bonnet had"collected 23 cases of aneurism treated in this way • of tlu.x,> » were of the brachial artery, 7 of the' p„p|iu,«,' 2 of the subclavian,and 1 of each of the foUowintr- the opiithalniic, the temporal, the carotid, the thoracic aorta, the ulnar, and one unknown' Of these the proceedings failed in 13 instances- » cases were reported as successful, but in 7 Jf these, M. Bonnet states that doubts must be en- tertained both as to the results and as to the treat- Ji 3