suitaWe pressure, made with amacliine constructed for the purpose. (See Bursa Mucosa.) Other cases, confirming the safety of cutting; out eano-lions, are recorded in the London Medical Journal for 1787, p. 151; hy Ellci; in M^ni. de I'Acad. des Sciences de Berlin, t. ii. ann. 1746; Schmiicker,in Chir. Wahrnehniungen, b. i. p. 332; Girard, Lupio- loffie. See Warner's Cases in Surgery. Chirurgical Works of B. Gooch, vol. ii. p. 376. Richler, An- fangsgr. der Wundarzn. b. i. Lassus, Pathologie Chir. t. i. p. 399. Diet, des Science, Mdd. t. xvii. p. 311. Cumin, in Edin. Med.and Surgical Journ. No. 84. C. Aston Key, in Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. i. 8vo. liOnd. 1836. GANGRENE (from ypalva, to feed upon) So named for its eating away the flesh. Authors have generally distinguished mortification into two stages: the first, or incipient one, they name gan- grene, which is attended with a sudden diminution of pain ; a livid discoloration of the part, which, after being yellowish, liecomes of a greenish hue; a detachment of the cuticle, under which a turbid fluid is effused; and lastly, on touching the part, a crepitus is perceptible, owing to the generation of air in the gangrenous parts. When the part has become quite cold, black fibrous, incapable of moving, and destitute of all feeling, circulation, and life, this is the second stage of mortification, termed sphacelus. Gangrene, however, is frequently used synonymously with the word mortification. (See Mortification, and Hospital Gangrene.) GASTROCELE (from yaffriip, the stomach, and WAr), a tumour). A hernia of the stomach. GASTRORAPHIA, or gastroraphe (from yacTTip, the belly, and pa<f>^;, a suture). A suture of the belly, or some of its contents. Although the term gastroraphe, in strictness of etymologj', signifies the sewing up of any wound of the belly, yet Mr. S. Sharp informs us that, m his time, the word implied tliat the wound of the alidomen was complicated with another of the bowels. . The operation of sewing up a wound in the howel?, can only take place when they fall out of the abdomen, and the wound in them is visible And, indeed, even in these circumstances, the em ployment of sutures is a practice, the propriety of which is questionable, as will he further considered in the article WouND.s. Gastroraphe, or merely sewing up a wound o the parietes of the abdomen, is usually done witl the common interrupted suture (see Suture), bu occasionally with the quilled suture or with pins. In from three to eight days, the sutures may generally be removed, and sticking plaster alone employed. (See Wounds of the Abdomen.) M. Pibrac, in the third volume of the Man. de VAcad. /lot/ale de Chir., records several interesting cases, which I'ully prove that wounds of the belly readily unite by means of a suitable posture and a pro[ier bandage, without the practice of gastro- raphe. These cases, however, are less decisive and convincing (if possible to be so) than the relations of the Cfcsarean operation, the extensive wound of which has often been healed by simple means, after the failure of sutures. Under certain circumstances, however, it may be essentially necessary to practise gastroraphe. For instance, were a large wound to be made across the parietes of the abdomen, a sutuic migiit become GLAUCOMA. 777 indispensably requisite to prevent the protrusion of the bowels. Yet even in this case, the sutures hould be as few in number as possible. (See Sutures.) [Gastroraphe has of late years been frequently employed after the operation of ovariotomy. _ The interrupted suture with silk or silver wire is pre- ferred by most surgeons, but the quill and twisted sutures have also been used. In the present day adhesive plaster alone would not be depended upon, to unite wounds implicating the whole thick- ness of the abdominal wall.] I shall conclude this article with a fact, perhaps more curious than instructive, related hy M. Bordier, of Pondicherry, in the Journal de M&de- cine, vol. xxvi. p. 538. An Indian soldier, angry with his wife, killed her, and attempted to destroy himself by giving himself a wound with a broad kind of dagger in the abdomen, so as to cause a protrusion of the bowels. A doctor of the country, being sent for, dissected between the muscles and skin, and introduced a thin piece of lead, which kept up the bowels. The wound soon healed up. the lead having produced no inconvenience. The man -was afterwards hanged, and M. Bordier, when the body was opened, assured himself more particularly of the fact. GLAUCOMA (from jKamls, bluish green,) has been generally defined to be a greenish opacity of the vitreous humour, attended with the loss or a considerable impairment of sight. {Weller, On Dis. of the Eye, iransl. by Monteith, vol. ii. p. 27.) Mr. Lawrence describes the colour as sea-green, clear green, muddy green, or 3'ellowish green. {On Dis. of the Eye, vol. iii. p. 494.) As will be presently explained, however, the vitreous humour is not invariably implicated in some of the cases, perhaps incorrectly classed with glaucoma. Pro- fessor Beer considers the subjects of glaucoma, and the cataracta -viridis, or glaucomatosa, together. He observes, that these diseases occur rather fre- quently, not only as true efTects of inflammation of the eye, but sometimes quite unpreceded by this affection. Although glaucoma may continue for a long time as the only disorder, without the crystal- line lens being changed in the slightest degree ; yet Beer h is never seen the case reversed, and the ions become altered as it does in glaucoma first, and the vitreous humour afterwards. In what this author describes as gouty ophthalmia, glaucoma is said to come on with the following symptoms : the iris is not observed to expand, but rather to become contracted; the pupil is not equally dilated, but extends more towards the canthi, the iris at length becoming scarcely perceptible towards each angle of the eye, especially the outer one, and the pupil of course assuming something of the appear- ance which is seen in the eye of a ruminating ani- mal. In a case, however, which 1 once saw in the London Eye Infirmary, under Mr. Lawrence, it was particul.arly remarked that the diameter of the pupil was not greatest in the transverse direc- tion; a circumstance which Beer's account would lead us to expect as constant. And it merits notice that, as the iris shrinks towards the marjjin of the cornea, its pupillary edge is inverted towards the lens, so that its smaller circle completely dis- appears. In this very dilated state of the pupil, a grey greenish opacity is perceived, seeming to be very deep, and arising from a real loss of trans- parency ill tile vitreous humour, At this period.