GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 811 [When neither amputation nor excision is deemed necessary, the woxmd should be cleansed, and all foreign bodies within reach, and removable, should be extracted, especially such as press on parts of importance. If there are any detached spicula of bone, these should all be carefully with- drawn. Dilatation and enlargement of the wound are to be avoided if possible, as recommended by Mr. Hunter, Hennen, Thomson, and Guthrie.] In these cases where the extraneous bodies are more deeply and firmly lodged in the wound, the surgeon should await suppuration and the detachment of sloughs ; and when the foreign bodies become moveable and apparent, he should extract them, with or without an incision, as circumstances may demand. The examination of the wound ought to be made as much as possible with the finger, which irritates less, and feels more distinctly than a probe. A great variety of instruments have been devised, either for ascertaining the position of balls and other foreign bodies in gunshot wounds, or for extracting them. But, however numerous and diversified bullet-drawers may be, they all admit of being divided into three kinds. .The first are con- structed on the principle of a pair of forceps ; others are shaped more or less like spoons ; and a third description are made on the plan of a cork- screw or worm. These last are only designed for cases in which the ball is fixed in the substance of a bone, and is quite immoveable ; for, if it were lodged in the soft parts, the pressure requisite for introducing the screw into it would injure and lacerate the parts at the bottom of the wound. Bullet-drawers constructed on the plan of forceps have the inconvenience of not being adapted for seizing the ball, unless their blades can expand, which always stretches the wound and creates a great deal of irritation. Forceps have been con- trived with blades, which may be introduced sepa- ratel}', and then joined together with a screw. When a ball lies superficially, the fingers, or a small pair of forceps, will extract it most conveni- ently. And, with respect to bullet-extractors, as Dr. Hennen has justly observed, they are com- pletely superseded by the common forceps, or that of Baron Percy, though unfortunately the aid of instruments is most required in tortuous deep passages, where we can least make use of them. {Principles of Military Surgmj, p. 76, ed. 3.) [These instruments are but little in favour with most military surgeons; they are seldom used and but little required, except for the extraction of deeply-seated bullets. The best form is that where the blades can be introduced separately, and afterwards made to lock into each other like the midwifery forceps ; an instrument of this kind has been constructed by Mr. Blaise, which, with slight curvature in the blades, would answer their purpose very well.] The event of the treatment above recommended, is various. Extraneous substances remaining in the wound, either loosen gradually, and come into view, so as to be easily removeable ; or they con- tinue concealed, prevent the cure, and give birth to a fistulous ulcer. In some instances the wound closes, and the foreign bodies remain in the limb during life without inconvenience ; and in other cases, after a time, they bring on a renewal of inflammation and suppuration. Sometimes a fo- reign body varies its situation, sinking down, and afterwards making its appeiiranee at a different part, where it may excite inflammation and suppu- ration. It may change its place slowly, or quickly; when quickly, it leaves no trace of its passage in the textui'es which it travels through ; when slowly, it becomes enveloped in a serous cyst. This disposition to change of place appertains not only to sharp, smooth, oblong bodies, but also to globular ones ; though it is generally less in pro- portion, as they have more of the spherical shape. As Dupuytren observes, these facts shoidd not be lost sight of by the surgeon; for it often happens that a foreign body, which is distinctly felt on one day at a certain point, may be very far from it on the next, Hence, incisions for the extraction of a ball are never to be made but from the infor- mation acquired respecting its situation. (See Dupuytren, Clin. CIdr. t. ii. p. 434.) When the ball lodges in the wound, it is usually difficult to trace it, as the parts collapse after its passage, andleave an opening in the skin much smal- ler than the ball itself. The ball does not regularly take a straight direction through the injured part, but often a very tortuous one, particularly when the ball is nearly spent. In every case in which it is not easily discoverable, all painful examina- tions should be abandoned, and the foreign body left in its situation until its place is better known, and the first inflammation is over. [When a ball nearly traverses a limb and lodges under the skin of the opposite side, and can be readily felt, it should be cut down upon and removed, as no inconvenience ensues.] But when the ball lies three or four inches from the surface, and cannot be distinctly felt, no incision should at first be made with the view of extracting it. {On Gtmsliot Wounds, p. xii. ed. 6.) Sometimes the ball penetrates the spongy part of a bone and lodges firmly in it. When it has only entered superficially, it may sometimes be loosened and extracted by means of an elevator, with a thin and somewhat curved extremity; and when it is more firmly fixed, a screw bullet- drawer will sometimes serve for its removal. Should the attempt fail, the employment of a tre- phine for the removal of the ball is recommended by some writers ; while others, fearful of the irritation, difficulty, and effects of such an opera- tion, and recollecting that balls have sometimes remained fixed in bones for many years, without any serious inconvenience, condemn that prac- tice. On the contrary, Mr. Guthrie lays it down as a general rule, subject to a few exceptions, that a ball should never be allowed to remain in a bone ; for, says he, " if a ball lodge in the head of a bone, and is not removed, it generally causes caries of the bone, disease of the joint, amputation, or death. If in the shaft of a long bone, necrosis for the most part follows with months and years of misery. On a flat bone, caries is equally the result, and if it bo surrounded by large muscles, sinuses form in various directions, contractions of the limb take place, and the patient drags on for years, careless of life, and ready to submit to anything to obtain relief. (On Gunshot Wounds, p. 144, ed. 6.) In many of these cases, one thing deserves to be recollected, however, that the necrosis, abscesses, and sinuses are less the effect of the lodgment of the ball, than of tho vio- lence originally conmiitted on the parts against which it has struck. Although Baron Larrey only sanctions the attempt to remove balls with a