ANTRUM. 247 the cavity of the antnira, and found that it might lie passed in .any direction. There was neither tumor nor dead bone in it ; and the cavity seemed to be in a natural state, except that it was enormously dilated. I next enlarged the opening, cutting out a circular portion of thin bony shell, formed by the expanded parietes of {he antrum. After the operation, the tumor subsided, and, in a few weeks, the cheek was not larger than the other. The aperture made by the scalpel has continued pervious to this day, though it is ten years since I performed the operation. The lady wears a plug, which she takes out night and morning, and with her own hand introduces the point of a syringe, and washes out the antrum." (See Lond. Med. Gaz. for Dec. 1834.) Abscesses op the Antrum. Abscesses are far more common than collec- tions of mucus. Violent blows on the cheek, in- flammatory affections of the adjacent parts, and especially of the pituitary membrane lining the nostrils, exposure to cold and damp, and, above all things, bad teeth, may bring on suppuration within the antrum. The first symptom is pain, often imagined to be toothache, particularly if there should be a carious tooth in this part of the jaw. Such pain, however, extends more into the nose, than that usually does which arises from a de- cayed tooth, and aifects the eye, orbit, and frontal sinuses. (See Hunter, On the Teeth,^. 175, ed. 3.) But these symptoms are insufficient to characterise the disease, the nature of which is not unequi- vocally evinced till a much later period. Sir Benjamin Brodie adverts to inflammation of the antrum, independent of local causes ; a case more obscure than when some manifest local cause of ir- ritation is present. In one sucli example, he was led to make a perforation above the second molaris, but no pus escaped. The patient was relieved by taking two grains of calomel and half a grain of extract of opium three times a day till the gums had become rather sore. {Brodie, in Lond. Med. Gaz. for Dec. 1834.) An inflammation of the antrum, tending to suppuration, is generally of longer duration than one entirely dependent on a caries of a tooth. There is a constant dull pain in the cheek, with frequent paroxysms of lancinating torture, and a great deal more sympathetic febrile disturbance thanattends toothache; and the violence of the suffering increases more and more, until, at last, a hard tumor is perceptible below the cheek- bone. By degrees the swelling extends over the whole cheek ; but it afterwards rises to a point, and forms a circumscribed hardness, perceptible above the back grinders. This svmptom is ac- companied with ccdema, redness, and soinetiiiios with suppuration of the external parts. In some instances, when there is an outward abscess, the matter has made its way into that situation through the bone, and there is noiisequently a communica- tion between bnlh collections of matter. The circumscribed elevation of the tumor, above the molares, does not, however, occur in all cases ; for sometimes the matter makes its way towards the palate, causing the bones of this part to swell, and, at length, bringing them into a state of caries, or necrosis, unless timely assistance be given. In some other easels, the matter escapes between the fangs and sockets of the teeth, and causes a -soft prominent swelling in the gums. Lastly, there are certain examples, in which the matter passes into the nostril of the same side, when the patient is lying with his head on the opposite one. If this mode of evacuation should be frequently repeated, it afiords relief, and pre- vents the tumor both from pointing externally, ■ and bursting, as it would do if the purulent matter could find no other outlet. But this evacuation of pus from the nostril is not so common as might be expected; for, according to Mr. Hunter, the opening between the antrum and cavity of the nose is generally stopped up. He even seems inclined to think, as I have already observed, that the disease may sometimes be occasioned by the im- pervious state of this opening, in consequence of which the natural mucus of the antrum collects in such quantity as to irritate and inflame the mem- brane with which it is in contact, just as an ob- struction in the ductus nasalis hinders the passage of the tears into the nose and causes an abscess in the lachrymal sac. This is a point, however, on which even Mr. Hunter would not venture to speak with certainty; for it is by no means im- possible, that the impervious state of the opening is rather an effect than the cause of the disease, since inflammation in the antrum is often mani- festly produced by causes of a different kind, and the opening in question is not invariably closed. Sir ^ Benjamin Brodie concurs with other sur- geons in believing that mflammation of the antrum is mostly dependent on local causes, and more commonly upon the irritation of a bad tooth than any other circumstance. This gives rise to inflam- mation at the bottom of the alveolus. Here matter forms, and not always being able to escape be- tween the fang and the socket, destroys the peri- osteum lining the latter part, causes absorption of the bone, and the inflammation is propagated to the Immg of the antrum. In many instances, the case,becomes complicated with dead as well as ca- rious bone. (See Brodie, in Lond. Med. Gaz. for Dec. 1834.) In the early stage of these cases, leeches, fo- mentations, calomel, opium, and saline purgatives may be employed for the purpose of reducing the inflammation, and preventing its advance to" sup- puration. But when an abscess has formed, and the matter is confined in the antrum, the indications dictate other treatment. The matter should be discharged, and any source of local irritation which is discoverable removed. Abscesses in the antrum require a free outlet • and if the surgeon neglects to procure it nature' herself ultimately does what is requisite ; but not till the patient's agony has been greatly prolonged, and the disease lias extended further than ought to have hcen allowed. At length, however, the pus makes I S appearance, either towards the orbit, the alveoli the palate, or, as is mostly the case, towards the cheek. 1 he matter having thus made its escape from the antrum, bursts through the soft parts and the opening liecoiiies fistulous. ' In all cases, whether the pus be simply confined in the antrum, or whether the case be conjoined with a necrosis, or caries, the principal indication 13 to discharge the matter. The ancients seem to have known very little iil)out the treatment of diseases of the antrum Drake, an English an.atoinist, is reputed to be the hrst proposer of a plan for curing abscesses of this cavity. {Anthropoloflia Nova. Londini 17''7"i K 1 " ''