63 AMPUTATION. attempts, made at different periods, to render the patient less sensible of the agony produced by th removal of a limb. Theodoricus administered for this purpose opium and hemlock, and, though he was imitated by many of the ancient surgeons, few moderns have deemed the practice worthy of being continued. The inhalation of stupefying gas has been tried, and so has magnetism. M. J. Clo quet, by some preparatory means not specified by Velpeaii, brought a patient into a condition in which the removal of the breast was accomplished without her having been aware of it. (See Velpeau. Nom. Elem. de Med. Opei: t. i. p. 297.) Guido made the experiment of benumbing the parts with a tight ligature ; but a machine, devised a few years ago in England, expressly for the object of stupefying the nerves of a limb previously to amputation, seems freer from danger than some of the means adopted to bring the patient into a stupefied state. (See J. Mbore''s Method of pre- venti7ig or diminisM7ig Pain in several Operations of Surgery, 8vo. Lond. 1784.) The great reason of the latter plan being given up is, that some pa- tients have made more complaint of the sufferings occasioned by the process of dulling the sensibility of the nerves than of the agony of amputation itself without any such expedient. Yet daily experience proves that the pressure caused on the sciatic nerve by sitting with the pelvis in a certain position will completely benumb the foot .and leg, and this with such an absence of pain^ that the person so affected is actually unaware of his foot being asleep, as it is termed, until he tries to walk. The above paragraph is interesting as showing the efforts formerly made to alleviate pain during operations. The reader, however, is referred to the article Anesthesia, for information respecting the more perfect agents, now so imiversally em- ployed for this purpose. GENERAL REMARKS ON AMPUTATION. Amputations may be di^^ded into two classes; amputations in the continuity'" of the bones, i. e. where the bones are sawn through ; and ampu- tations in their " contiguity; " or where the limb is separated at one of the articulations. The terms disarticulation and exarticulation are also employed to designate the latter class of operations. The re- marks which follow, although they are for the most part applicable to both cases, refer more especially to the former class, and some additioniil observa- tions on the mode of performing amputation through the articulations will be afterwards oll'ered. The different steps of the operation, meriting particular attention, are, the choice of the part of the limb where the incisions are to begin ; the measures for guarding against bleeding during the operation ; the division of the integuments, mus- cles, and bones, which is to be accomplished in such a manner that the whole surface of the stump will afterwards be covered with skin ; tying the arteries, which should be done without including the nerves, or any other adjacent part; placing the integuments in a proper position after the operation; and, finally, the subsequent treatment of the wound. It is a general rule to amputate as low as the disease will allow ; so that as little of the limb may be cut off as possible, the surface of the wound have less extent than would otherwise happen, and the preserved^ portion of the limb have greater power in proportion to its length. The longer it is, the better also will it be suited for the adaptation to it afterwards of some artificial substitute. This rule admits of no exception in the upper extremity. In some parts of the lower limb, how- ever, as will be subsequently explained, it has been customary to select certain situations for the per- formance of amputation with reference to the future convenience of the patient, even though the disease or injury might admit of the removal of a smaller portion of the limb. But it should always be borne in mind, that the shock which the system sustains at the time, and the subsequent danger to the pa- tient from the various untoward symptoms which may set in while the healing of the wound is in progress, will depend very much on the size of the part removed, and the proportion which it bears to the whole bulk of the bod}'. Amputation, for in- stance, is unquestionably more dangerous at the shoulder-joint than in the forearm ; in the thigh than in the leg ; in the upper than in the lower third of the thigh. And when the patient has suf- fered from long continued disease, and his powers have been already so severely tested, that when amputation is performed the chances in his favour and against him are perhaps nearly evenly balanced, the demand made upon his constitution to heal a larger wound instead of a smaller one may be suf- ficient to turn the scale, and make all the difference between his death and his recovery. Here, however, through an imprudent solicitude to obtain the above advantages, let not the surgeon ever be unmindful of the great axiom in surgical operations, that all the diseased parts should be removed ; and let him be assured of the truth of what Graefe inculcates, that it is more pardonable to cut away too much than too little. {Normen fur die Abldsung grosserer Gliedm, p. 60.) At the same time, I do not agree with some modern writers, who deem it necessary to amputate beyond the limits of every abscess and sinus which may extend very far above a diseased joint or com- pound fracture. Many of these suppurations are only like ordinary abscesses, and finally get well after the main disease or injiu-y is removed, as I have often seen. Were it an invariable rule to amputate above every collection of matter sometimes five or six inches more of the limb would be sacrificed than circumstances absolutely demanded, and the greater danger of a high, than a low operation, would be encountered. However, in all cases where the bone is suspected to be un- sound, or the muscles are affected with the morbid changes peculiar to fungus hajmatodes or other incurable diseases, the operation should be prac- tised sufficiently high to take away all the distem- pered parts. In secondary amputations, where there has been much suppuration in the limb, and a smus runs up, Mr. Guthrie says, that if the sinus extend only a short way between the muscles, the membrane lining it may be dissected out ; but, if the matter has lain upon the bone, this will have become diseased, and amputation should be pinc- tisea tiigh enough to remove the affected part of it. {Un Gunshot Wounds, p. 87.) Arrest of hemorrhage during the operation is the next point which demands the attention of the sur- geon, and to accomplish this the tourniquet is the instrument which is most commonly employed. (See TounNiQUET.) We know that it was an opinion of the late Mr.