WOUNDS. GUNSHOT elft ^'''} the attention, he says, should be conf,„ed to the^^t^act : oose sequestra, and to the removal by the saw oi' the sharp points of bone. I cannot find recorded a single case where any large portion of the shaft ot the humerus was removed during the Crimean war. Dr. Macleod, however, mentions that several cases resulted very favourably where parts of the shaft of the humerus and bones of the fore-arm were excised. I removed as much as three and a half inches of that bone, including in the resection the upper half of the deltoid impression, in a case of very bad compound fracture caused by a fraa- nient of shell. The bone was comminuted and split to rather more than that extent. The wound healed in the most perfect and rapid manner, and the case soon lost its compound character. This soldier was invalided to England, and afterwards discharged the service, and I saw him again at the end of a year with a but little shortened limb ihere was almost perfect consolidation of the divided ends of the bone, and all the underhand movements of the arm had been restored, and he was obtaining a livelihood by breaking stones on the road. Resection of tJi.j Elbow-Jomt.—Bandens was of opinion that resection should only be performed where one alone of the three joint ends is injured. It was recommended as a rule, in all cases where a bone in this joint was injured, by the surgeons in the bchleswig-Holstein campaigns. When the ulna alone was shattered, the corresponding portion of the radius was removed, but seldom more than the head of that bone except in cases where the ulna had been comminuted, when the neck was like- wise excised. If the radius was comminuted below the neck, the fragments were extracted, and the uneven projections removed by the saw ; the ulna was not sawn off at the same level, but a piece from the olecranon only was removed, as otherwise this protruded in a troublesome manner during and after the healing. As on the ulna depends especially the strength of the elbow-joint, it was not found necessary to saw this bone off so low as the radius. A very small portion of the trochlea humeri was excised; in many cases the humerus was untouched, the cartilage merely being shaved off by the knife. This latter proceeding, however, seemed-to have no influence in the production of a more rapid re- covery. {Stromeijer, p. 24.) In cases where the injury involved only the humerus, one or other condyle being shattered, the fragments were re- moved and the humerus sawn off at the place where the fissures nearly terminated. By this means nearly an inch in its length was preserved. A piece was still removed from the olecianon, though uninjured. A portion of the wound was then united by interrupted snture, the lower part being left open for the escape of the discharge. Partial resection of the elbow-joint, according to Esmarch, was not followed by such good results as complete removal of the ends of nil the bones enter- ing into the formation of the articulation. We ought not, he says, " to be content with a partial resection of the wounded parts, for in my opinion It is indeed the extensive severing of the ligamen- tous apparatus of the joint which deprives the wound of its danger, and the loss there is removed Jt'om the ends of the bones, the greater is the probability of ankylosis. Partial resection was twice tried, and although both cases terminated favourably, yet their progress showed that such in operation is m no respect preferable to the eniiie division of tlie articular capsule, perfect ankvlosis occurring m both cases, and the process of healin^ being far more tedious than in resection of the entire joint." The experience of the Crimea was in conformity with this opinion. Dr. Macleod sayss Partial resection-of which there were a good many cases--did not, I think, turn out, on the whole, at all so well as complete ones. Thev were more tedious, more liable to fail, aud less satisfactory when they succeeded, than when the whole articulation was removed." Amputation of the arm had to be performed in two cases after partial_ resection of the joint, during the Crimean war : in one case, however, where the heads of the radius and ulna were fractured by a rifle-ball which passed across the joint, the broken fra-r- nients were removed, and the humerus left entire- the patient, at the end of three months, was dis- charged with a good joint, which admitted of con- siderable latitude of motion, and could sustain no small weiglit. The resections of the elbow-joint were remark- ably successful when considered alone, but still more so when compnredwith the results of ampu- tation of the arm during the Schleswig-Kolstein war. Of 40 resections 6 only died, while out of 54 amputations of the arm 19 terminated fatally Dunng the latter half of the Crimean war there were 20 resections of this joint, partial and com- plete, 3 of which died, whereas out of 102 ampu- tations of the arm 27 died. It seems then clearly established by these results, that the preference should always be given to excision in this articu- lation, in every case where such a proceedino- is possible. As to the extent of the shaft that°can be removed along with tlie particular ends of the bone, Esmarch states that as much as four or five inches were taken away both from the humerus and ulna and radius, where they had been struck off by a bullet: in one case a piece of four inches m length was removed. (Op. cit. p. 81-2.) In the treatment of these injuries after the operation, the most important point to attend to is securing to the patient the most absolute quiet and complete position. The arm is to be laid in the prone position upon a wooden splint, extending from the upper third of the arm to the fingers'ends'^ at an obtuse angle at the elbow of 140 degrees] and secured to it by a bandage. Esmarch re- commends in the first instance cold, and after- wards W!inn, water dressing, and, when the suppu- ration dimiiiisiies, charpie and oil. After the wound is filled with granulation, and cicatrisation has commenced, the arm is to be carefully raised from the splint, and a flannel roller applied. "Passive motion is to be commenced earlj', very limited at first, and to be increased gradually every day. in order to insure the usefulness of the arm. Tlie general treatment as practised by the Schleswig- llolsteiii surgeons was strictly antiphlogistic {I'Jsmarch, p. 57.) In the cases which were operated on during the campaign in the Duchies, the hand could be niised to the mouth before the wound was closed. Py- ajmia was the cause of death in most of the seven failures. {Esmarch, p. 68.) Of the six operated on in the first twenty-four hours, two were fatal; on the third or fourth day, three were performed, with two fatal cases. Secondary operations after the fu"