707 FRACTURE, seen by Sir Benjamin Brodie himself, we must suppose, that another part of the spinal cord, as high as the origin of the nerves whicli form the axillary plexus, has suffered from the effects of concussion. On the subject of affeclions of the nerves of sen- sation. Sir Benjamin Brodie, after noticing the well ascertained fact, that if the spinal cord be lace- rated, or subjected to any considerable degree of pressure, the sensibility of the parts below the seat of injury is totally destroyed, refers to another, which is, that, if the injury be in the situation of the sixth or seventh cervical vertebra, the destruction of sensibility is frequently partial in the upper ex- tremities, while it is complete in the trunk and lower extremities. " In many instances, the destruction of sensibility is incomplete at first, but becomes complete afterwards, as tlie process of softening makes progress in the injured portion of the spinal cord." {Sir B. Brodie in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. XX. p. 135.) With respect to the affection of respiration, if the fracture be as high as the third cervical verte- bra, and the cord be there injured, the nervous influence cannot be transmitted either to the dia- phragm or the other muscles of respiration; and a fatal asphyxia immediately takes place. But if respiration be performed artificially by inflating the lungs, the action of the heart and life may be maintained for several hours. When the spinal cord is seriously injured in the lower part of the neck, below the origin of the phrenic nerves, or in the upper part of the back, the action of the dia- phragm is not interfered with, while the intercostal muscles, as well as the muscles of expiration, are paralytic. " The patient, therefore, breathes by the diaphragm only. The ribs are motionless, and the air is expelled from the lungs, not by the con- traction of the abdominal muscles, but simply by the elasticity of the abdominal parietes, and the pressure of the abdominal viscera, operating on the lower surface of the diaphragm, when that muscle is relaxed." Under these circumstances, the pa- tient is incapable of expectorating mucus, if it be collected in the trachea ; if he coughs, it is by a forcible inspiration, followed by a sudden relaxa- tion of the diaphragm ; and respiration is carried on with more difficulty in the sitting than the recumbent posture. But it is further observed by Sir Benjamin Brodie that injuries of the spinal cord in the lower part of the neck are not neces- sarily followed by the foregoing consequences. The pressure on tiie spinal cord may be so small, or the disorganisation of it from concussion may be 80 trifling, that the muscles of respiration are not at any period affected by it; or they may not be so in the first instance, and yet become alVcctod afterwards. In one case, which fell under Sir Benjamin Brodie's observation, a fracture of the seventh cervical vertebra, which was followed by a softening and dissolution of the spinal cord, the difficulty of respiration did not take place until the twelfth day; but deatli occurred in less than three days afterwards. (Sec Aled. Chir. Trans, vol. xx. p. 1.38.) Injuries of the spinal marrow, including those resulting from, or accompanying fractine, are well known to produce certain chanycs in the urine and urinary organs. Besides an inability of voiding the urine, there is sometimes, as Sir Benjamin Brodie has pointed out, a marked diminution in the quantity of this fluid secreted. In some cases, the urine first secreted, although of an acid quality and free from mucus, has a peculiarly offensive smell ; while, in others, it is exceedingly acid, with an opaque yellow appearance, and a yellow amorphous sediment. But the most common changes are an ammoniacal smell, great turbidness, and a deposit of a large quantity of adhesive mucus, and the urine, when tested with reddened litmus, or turmeric paper, is found to be very alkaline. After some time, phosphate of lime, secreted by the inner coat of the bladder, is blended with the mucus, which is tinged with blood. These ap- pearances may come on as early as the third or fourth day, or not begin for a week, or eight or nine days. Sir Benjamin Brodie has not found that injury of one pai't of the spine is more liable to produce them than that of another. In fatal cases they sometimes continue to the last. At other times they go on for two or three weeks, and then subside. Occasionally the urine varies from day to day, being now alkaline and depositing ad- hesive matter; then clear and acid ; and after- wards alkaline again. {Sir B. Brodie.) Fractures and other injuries of the spine fre- quently bring on inflammation of the mucous mem- brane of the bladder and ureters; and occasionally spots of extravasated blood are found in the kid- neys. In University College Museum is a bladder, taken from a patient who died of an injury of the spine, which is in a softened and ulcerated state. In Mr. Barlow's case the infundibula and pelvis of the kidneys were dilated with urine, which was mixed with pus. The bladder, whose coats were thickened, also contained a considerable quan- tity of pus. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvii. p. 120.) Wherever the injury of the spinal cord is situ- ated, the bowels are torpid, and the abdomen tym- panitic. In many cases where the cervical portion of the cord is injured, and the patient dies in two or three days, there is a disposition to vomit. In more protracted cases the discharges from the bowels are of a black colour, semifluid, and of a peculiarly offensive smell. It would appear also, both from the experiments of M. Cliossat, and facts recorded by Sir Benjamin Brodie, that injuries of the superior portion of the spinal cord are some- times followed by a remarkable evolution of animal heat. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xx. p. 146.) With respect to effects on the sensorium imme- diately after the accident. Sir B. Brodie has not observed any material ones, except wliere tlie in- jury was of the cervical portion of the spinal cord and then he observes that the results are very dif- ferent in different cases, {lb. 149.) If the lumbar vertebra; are displaced, the lower extremities are rendered so completely insensible that they maybe pinched, burnt, or blistered, with- out the patient suffering any pain. The penis in such cases is generally erect. In geuerni, also according to Sir Astlcy Cooper's observations, pa- tients with fractured lumbar vertebrte die within a month or six weeks ; but he knew of one patient that lived two years, and then died of giingrouo of tiic nates. In fractures with displacement of the dorsal vertebra; the symptoms arc very similar • but the paralysis extends higlicr, and the abdomen becomes excessively inflated. Death connnonly follows in two or three weeks ; but Sir Astley Cooper remembers one case in which a gentleman 7.7.2