Velpeau, Gerdy, and Dujat found the hydrocele to be more frequent on the left than on the right side, whilst Mr. Curling's experience showed it to be mora common on the right. Tiie last surgeon met with six double hydroceles in 115 cases. There can be no doubt that the double form is mora common in hot climates, for M. Dujat tabu- lated 370 out of 1000 cases in the native hospital of Calcutta, In young infanta it is usually single, but is sometimes met with double.] The usual situation of the testicle in simple hydrocele is two-thirds of the way down the tumor, at its posterior part, [or rather below the centre of the sac] But as Sir Astley Cooper has correctly explained, a great deal of irregu- larity is met with in this respect, the testis being sometimes in front of the hydrocele, a circum- stance arising from the existence of adhesions be- tween the inner and outer layer of the serous mem- brane at its forepart, previously to the formation of the hydrocele. The testis is sometimes found at the bottom of the swelling, as is exemplified in a pre^ paration shown by the same gentleman, where the fluid had been prevented from descending below and in front of the testis by the inner and outer coats of that organ being so connected together by the adhesive inflammation. He has one specimen in which the fluid was situated only at the sides of tbe testis, adhesions having prevented its accumula- tion at other points; and another, in which the hydrocele seems as if it had arisen from the tunica vaginalis, in the same manner as an aneurismal sac is occasionally formed from the coats of an artery. (Sir. A. Cooper, On the Testis, Sfc.) [The position of the testicle in front, according to Mr. Curling, mayalso be owing to an original inver- sion of the organ, in which the free surface pre- senting backwards, the fluid collects in that di- rection, and presses the testicle to the front of the sac. Adhesions sometimes occur, producing a sac- culated arrangement, and form what is termed muliilocular hydrocele; and it is stated that occa- sionally the cysts thus formed have no commu nication with each other. In two instances Mr. Curling has seen a membranous partition in the sac of a hydrocele, separating it into two distinct cavities, formed by a layer of false membrane; but such a separation is extremely rare, and he be lieves that what is called the multilocular hydro cele is, in general, either a form of the encysted or a complication of the vaginal and encysted. The same surgeon speaks of a kind of sac or pouch, often met with in hydroceles, which is not commonly described. It is situated on the inner side of the testicle, but the opening into it always found on the outer side, between the body of the gland, and the middle of the epididymis, This sac, which varies much in size, is formed by the distension of the cul de sac, which he has des- cribed as existing naturally at this part. Two examples of this kind of pouch are contnincd in the Hunterian Museum, one of which is figured in his work. {Curling, op. cit. p. 79.) In large hydroceles the epididymis is usually flattened, elongated, and displaced; and instead of a pouch being formed, the central part of the epididymis is drawn to some distance from the body of the testicle. In the hydroceles of children, the testis occupies a lower situation than the same organ in the hydroceles of adult persons, and the swelling passes further up towards the abdominal ring. The HYDROCELE. '039 hydrocele, in fact, is in them situated rather in front of the cord, than of the testis, which is always at the lower iind back part of the swelling.] Dupuytren and Sir Astley Cooper relate cases in which the trocar had been passed into the tes- ticle, which was adherent in front, and such facts prove the necessity of always endeavouring to learn the precise situation of the gland by manual examination, before an operation is attempted. When the surgeon presses rather strongly on that organ, he will feel the part much firmer than the rest of the tumor, and the patient will complain of a severe and peculiar pain. [The following are the symptoms and general characters of simple hydrocele :—an oval or pyri- form elastic swelling, with sensible fluctuation, and smooth and even surface, commencing in the scro- tum, and extending upwards. At its back part there is a firmer and more solid feel from the position of the testicle, which can then be com- pressed, and if the hydrocele be not too large, the spermatic cord can be felt above it. The larger the hj-drocele, the more tense it becomes, and the cutaneous veins are prominent; sometimes it is so soft and lax that both the testicle and the fluid surrounding it are easily discoverable. The penis is partly or wholly buried in the swelling, and the surroundingskin is drawn forwards into the scrotum, giving to the orifice of the prepuce a form resem- bling the umbilicus. The tumor is perfectly in- dolent, in itself is painless, but according to its dimensions, if unsupported, causes a degree of uneasiness in the loins. If examined by trans- mitted light, it is found to be transparent through- out, except at the position of the lesticle, where it is opaque. Its progress is slow, and after attaining to a. certain size it remains stationary; but occa- sionally it continues to enlarge without cessation.] The transparency of the tumor, according to Pott, is the most fallible and uncertain sign belong- ing to it ; it is a circumstance, says he, which does not depend upon the quantity, colour, or consistence of the fluid constituting the disease, so much as on the uncertain thickness or thinness of the contain- ing bag, and of the coverings of the tunica vagi- nalis. If they are thin, the fluid limpid, and the accumulation made so quick as not to give the tunica vaginalis time to thicken much, the rays of light may sometimes be seen to pass through the tumor. With respect to Pott's remarks on the trans- parency of the swelling, as a symptom of hydro- cele, they are correct in the main, inasmuch as the absence of this sign is no proof that the disease is not of this nature. But on the other hand, it should have been explained that, ichen the trans- parency is present, it is one of the surest viarks of this species of hydrocele. [Mr. Curling properly observes that the value of transparency, as a sign of hydrocele, is un- derrated in these remarks. In ordinary cases the surgeon should certainly be able to detect the disease toithoul its assistance; and this is the more necessary, as its absence is no proof that the tumor is not a hydrocele. But it would be absurd, he adds, to reject the aid of a symptom which, when present, constitutes one of the most certain signs of the disease, because of its inconstancy; and, in the present day, there are few surgeons, even of experience, who do not avail themselves, in cases of doubt, of this ready and simple mode of examination. (Op. cit. p. 87.)