442 , ^ . CATHETER, of the nistruraent (at least for subjects of the same age and stature) should generally not vary atTn! but be stnctly adapted, as Langenbeck remarks, to tl e uatural track of the urethra! {Bihl. i. p. I177 ) The female catheter, however, has only a sligh curvature towards its beak ; a shape adapted to the direction of the meatus urinarius. Desault improved sj ver catheters, by causing them to sidpTnf ^;;>"\'=1''P"«''' openings, or eyes, at the sides of the beak, with rounded edges, instead of the longitudinal slits previously i„ use, in which the lining of the urethra was frequently Entangled pinched and lacerated, so that acute pain "and profuse hemorrhage were the consequences With the view of preventing these evils, he also filled up the openings with lard. (See (Et.vres Chir de Desault, t. m p. ngj Qn each side of the external end of the catheter is a small ring, by means of which, and some tape, it can be [Mr Briggs, my late colleague at the Lock Hos- pital, devoted much time and care in ascertaining the natural curve of the urethra in the adult male! He rehed principally on casts of the urethra made ,,L;."J''''"! "f^d ^''^ the urethra and bladder of the dead subject. His investigations led him to the conclusion that the curve of the adul t urethra corresponded to a segment of a circle 01 to 3i inches m diameter. «In a plaster cast," he saye, " taken from a lateral vertical section ^f the pelvis of an adult after the urethra had been injected with wax, the curve was found to com" mence at li inch anterior to the bulb, and from tHis point to Its termination in the bladder to form *T 'Tr u'' °^ Scinches in diameter, the chord of the arc being 2f inches, or rather less than one third of the circumference. In another cast the chord Ox the segment was found to measure „ . o '"""u. lu measure 2to inches of a circle of 3^ inches in diameter." Mr Henry Thompson, in his lately published work on the pathology and treatment of stricture, adopts Mr. J3riggs s conclusion, and recommends that the curve given to metallic catheters should form about foths of a circle of 3^ inches in diameter. He ob- serves, the curves of the catheters usually found at the instrument makers' describe arcs of circles va- rying from 4 to 4i inches in diameter, and that the arcs comprise rather less than ^th of the circum- lerence. Mr. Briggs also points out the advantage ot having the catheter graduated, so that the sur- . fiwn may read off in inches or in fractions of inches the extent to which the instrument has passed into the urethra during its introduction, by which means more precise knowledge may be obtained of the normal length of the whole or of separate parts of the canal, and the position of any obstruction in It more exactly defined. Mr. Briggs estimates the average length of the adult male urethra, as thus measured by the graduated catheter, to be about- '.J or 7f inches, of which 5i inches belong to the spongy portion, and the remainder to the mem- branous and prostatic. He found the same relative measurements to hold good when taken from post mortem casts of the urethra. In a plaster cast of a. vertica section of the male pelvis, where the eu- me urethra measured 8^ inches, ho found that Ca inches belonged to the spongy, and the remaining tion "lembrauous and prostatic port iions {^Brisas On Slrwture of the Urclhra, pp. 12 he Hi . ""'^ f"'™ "10 curve of the catheter just advocated it will be as well to ore" r t:1„" " whfch is l^nfi f !t " ^' o''"<"i8 that if the length of the arc of the curve be either increased or dnnmished, the point will form either a greate. 01 less than a right angle with the stem. The Z. geon should on all occasions note carefully the dt glee of, the curve as well as its length in the instrument he may be about to use, otLrJL h may be deceived as to the exact position of the point during Its introduction.] Besides silver catheters, surgeons now fre- quently employ flexible ones made'of elastic gum. These last, indeed, are of so much importance, that they may be said to constitute one of the greatest improvements in surgery. I shall not here inquire whether they were first invented by Theden, Pickel of Wurzburg, or Bernard of Paris • this is a pmnt which the Germans and French must settle themselves. Imperfect attempts had been made by others at earlier periods to invent catheters possessing the property of flexibility. Van Helmont proposed the use of catheters made ot horn ; but this substance was found to be too stiff, and to be very quickly coated with depo- sitions from the urine. Fabricius ab Aquapen- dente employed leather catheters, which were objectionable, inasmuch as they were soon softened by the urine and mucus of the urethra, when they shnvelled and became impervious. Other flexible catheters were also formerly tried, composed of spiral springs of silver wire, covered with the skins of particular animals. These last, however, were quickly spoiled by putrefaction; and when left m the urethra any considerable time, the beak sometimes entirely separated from the rest of the instrument and was left behind ia the bladder. The gum catheters, now in use, are liable to none of the preceding inconveniences ; they are formed of silk tubes, woven for the purpose, and covered with a coat of elastic gum (see Bougie) ; they are sufiiciently flexible to accommodate them- selves to the different curvatures of the urethra • they are not softened by the urine ; and they con- stantly remain with their cavity unobliterated. Their smooth and polished surface makes them" continue a long while free from incrustations de- posited from the urine. Sometimes they are intro- duced with a stilet, or wire, which is passed into their canal, in order to give them a certain c-ir- vature, and a greater degree of firmness : but, in general, it is withdrawn as soon as the tube is in the bladder. Elastic catheters are less irritating to the uretlira, and less apt to become covered with calculous in- crustations, than silver tubes ; they can also be frequently introduced, when a metallic one will not pass. The selection of good bougies and catheters, especially for the male subject, is a business of the first importance ; for, by employing such ns are disposed to break, " many a practitioner has doomed his patient to years of dreadful, and, perhaps, hopeless suffering, and brought domi ir. reparable disgrace upon his own liead." {Med. Chir. Jourii. vol, v. p. 75.) M. Nicod, in per-