GUNSHOT 833 WOUNDS. 3 II instances, but little appeared capaWe of being (lone in assisting nature beyond removing dead bone as it became loose, and careful attention to preserve a few outlets for the escape of suppura- tion. Dead bone often continued to present itself from time to time for many months after the receipt of the injury.] When a ball passes through the pelvi?, and breaks the bones, this latter circumstance alone constitutes a formidable accident; for, as Dupuj'- tren observes, the bones are deep, covered by a thick mass of soft parts, and surrounded by consi- derable vessels and nerves. If the organs contained in the pelvis are wounded, the fluids or matters which are within them, are effused, inflammation ensues, and the result is mostly fatal. If large vessels are opened, the hemorrhage cannot be stopped. If nerves are injured, paralysis of the rectum, bladder, or lower extremities, is the con- sequence. If the ball lodges in the thick substance of the bones, it is apt to bring on necrosis, periostitis, extensive and deep abscesses, sinuses, and fistulous openings. A wound of the bladder is followed by effusion of urine ; one of the rectum, by that of faecal matter; the dangers of which occurrences are great. (See Dupitylrcn, iu Clm, Chir. t. ii. p. 544.) [Wounds of the bladder are dangerous in pro- portion to the quantity of urine it contains at the time of the receipt of the wound, or as the upper and anterior or posterior and lower portion is en- gaged in the injury. Cases in which balls perforate that part of the bladder covered by peritoneum, al- most always terminate fatally from the escape of urine into the peritoneal cavity, giving rise to general and violent inflammation of that membrane. Larrey states that all his patients died in the first fortj-- eight hours after the injury, and Mr. Guthrie describes them as rarely reco-vering, generally dying of inflammation and gangrene in from three to six days. {Commentaries, 6th ed. f. 603.) In the Crimean war, as far as I can discover by the returns, no case of this nature recovered. When the fundus is wounded at that portion where it is uncovered by peritoneum, the case admits of a cure, unless complicated with too much internal hjemor- rhage.] The surest criterion of these cases is the escape of the urine from the external wound ; and its discharge may either be momentary, occasional, or continual ; differences to be accounted for by the situation of the wound, and the changes which happen in the bladder. When the bladder is full, and its upper part is pierced, the urine will issue only just at the moment of the accident, and, as soon as it is discharged, the edges of the wound will come together, and permanently close, especially if the urine can pass freely through the natural channel. But when this favourable condition is absent, the bladder becomes enormously distended again, the wound is opened anew, and the urine discharged once more from the external opening. The same things might happen if one'were to withWraw too Boon the elastic gum catheter, which has been in- troduced ; and by introducing the instrument again, the urine might be diverted from tlie wound, and its natural course re-established. Lastly, Larrey observes, that, when the wound is situated at one of the lowest points of the bladder, the discharge of urine may be incessant, and be of more or less duration. When the track of those punctured wounds is extensive, and not direct, abscesses form at dif- ferent points where the urine piisses, Tliese ab- scesses, Larrey directs to be immediately opened, and their recurrence prevented by the introduction of an elastic gum catlieter through the urethra ; one of the chief means of relief in all wounds of the bladder. Together with this treatment, he recom- mends the warm bath, the application of campho- rated oily liniments to the belly, antispasmodic cooling medicines, frequent clysters, and some- times cupping in the vicinity of the wound, or bleeding. (See Mem. de Chir. Mil. t. iv. p. •286, 287.) On the two last means of relief, it would have been better if Larrey had laid more stress ; for, next to the cathet&r, they are unques- tionably the most essential. - Baron Larrey informs us, that the gunshot wounds of the bladder, which occurred in Egypt, had for the most part a favourable tennination. The most remarkable case was that of F. Chau- mette, a light horseman, who was wounded at the battle of Tabor. The ball passed across the hypogas- trium, about one finger'^ breadth above the pubcs, to the point of the left buttock which corresponds to the ischiatic notch.. The direction of the wound, and the issue of faeces and urine from the two orifices, left no doubt that the bladder and rectum were injured. M. Milioz, who directed the surgi- cal affairs of the division of the army under Kleber, diligently pursued the same kind of treatment which he had seen Larrey adopt at the siege of Acre. During the suppurative stage, the patient was affected with fever ; and, after the sloughs were detached, the discharge was very copious. A catheter that was passed into the bladder, pre- vented an extravasation of the urine, and at the same time promoted tlie union of the wound of that visGus. This was healed the first, and the patient, upon his return to Cairo, was quite cured. Larrey has recorded several other interesting cases of wounds, either of the bladder alone, or of it and the rectum together, to which I must con- tent myself with referring. (See Mem. de Chir. Mililaire, t. ii. p. 160, 165 ; t. iii. p. 340, &c • t iv. p. 296, &c.) A ball may go through both sides of the bladder, and then either perforate the neighbouring parts and escape externally, or bury itself deeply in the flesh. When it has gone quite through the blad- der, and afterwards passed out of the body again urine, blended with blood, immediately issues from one or both apertures, according to their situation. The flow of urine through the urethi-a is either lessened, or completely suppressed • but, through this passage, the patient generally voids more or less blood. Acute and incessant pain is felt in the course of the wouud, together with a frequent painful desire to make water nausea, sometimes actual vomiting, and extroma anxiety and restlessness. Either in its passage inwards, or its course outwards, the ball may have injured or perforated the rectum; in which case the urine passes into this bowel, and, mixing with the ficces, is discharged from the anus, When a part of the bladder, towards the cavity of the abdomen, is injured, as, for instance, its posterior surface, which is covered by the perito- neum, the urine is generally extravasated within the belly, and inflammation of this serous mem- brane is the immediate consequence. This inflam-