! iputation of the hg, from a fistulous opening in i.ie stump, in consequence of ulceration of one side of the popliteal artery. (See Le ons Oraks, cjo. t. iv. p. 426.) Now that the plan of coverinc tiie amp with sound skin is adopted, this kind of bleeding is less common than formerly. When the bleeding vessel is laj'ge, there is no chance of put- ting the patient out of danger, except by cutting down to the vessel, and tying it. The trunk of the vessel, however, may sometimes be more con- veniently tied than the bleeding branch itself, Mr. Key mentions a particular sort of hemor- rhage after the operation : " I have seen," says he, " a few instances of the integuments becoming so contracted after the operation, as to compress the veins just above the extremity of the stump, and bring on after some hours a copious hemor- rhage. When it has appeared clear to me that the hemorrhage was venous, I have made a divi- sion of integuments on one side of the thigh, suiK- cient to remove the stricture, and this method has immediately suppressed the hemorrhaee." CP. 630, edit. 2.) ^ ^ I have never met -with a case where hemorrhage was unequivocally produced by a contraction of the integuments. Dr. Hennen states that he had seen only one example, and it was successfully treated by loosening the bandage, and moistening the dressings with cold water. {On Military Sur- gen-y, p. 264, ed. 2.) Here I infer, from the mode of relief, that the cause was not tlie pressure of the integuments, but that of the roller on the veins. In Mr. Guthrie's practical work there are some excellent remarks on those hemorrhages, which, in an irritable and sloughing state of a stump, fre^ quently take place from the small branches, or from the main tmnks of the arteries, in consequence of ulceration. It is (says he) not always easy to discover the bleeding vessel, or, when discovered, to secure it on the face of the stump ; for, as the ulcerative process has not ceased, and the end of the artery, which is to be secured, is not sound, no healthy action takes place. The ligature very soon cuts its way through, or is thrown off, and the he- morrhage returns ; or some other branch is opened, and another ligature is required, which is equally uncertain ; and, under 'this succession of ligatures and hemorrhages, the patient dies. Here, cutting 'down to the principal artery, in preference to another amputation, has often succeeded ; but, under other circumstances, it fails, and amputation becomes ultiuiatcly necessary. At the same time ■it is allowed that this operation may also fail. On the whole, Mr. Guthrie professes himself to be an advocate in most cases for tying the artery in the first instance ; and if this proceeding should not answer, he would then amputate. However, the practiceof taking up the artery, ho thinks,shoHld not be adopted indiscriminately, the doctrines of aneu- rism not being here applicable, because there is a wounded vessel, with an external opening. "In the thigh, the operation is less certain than in the •arm, and especially if it is not the main artery that bleeds ; for the branch from which the he- morrhage proceeds may come from the profunda, and tying the artery in the groin on such opinion would be doing a serious operation, and one which probably would not succeed; for, the anastomosing branches would restore the circulation in the stump in a short time, and again establish the bleedin". If it is the femoral artery that bleeds, and the AMPUTATION. 79 ligature is applied high, it is very liable to a return of hemorrhage. To obviate these difiiculties, the part from which the bleeding comes should be well studied, and the shortest distance from the stump carefully noted at which compression on the artery commands the bleeding ; and at that spot the ligature should be applied, provided it is not within the sphere of the inflammation of the stump." {On Gunshot Wounds, p. ] OS, 106.) Thus far the advice seems to me correct and valuable ; but, where the hemorrhage could be restrained by taking up the artery in the groin, though not lower down, I doubt the propriety of preferring amputation to this other less severe operation, pro- vided the efficiency of a ligature above the profunda be proved in the manner judiciously recommended by Mr. Guthrie, viz. by means of pressure. Inflammation and suppuration in the arteries of a stump have a particular tendency to loosen the clot in them, and thus produce secondary hemor- rhage. Ulceration of an artery may also be excited by an inflammation, which keeps up suppuration directly around the vessel. At the period when the ligatures are expected to be detached, the ut- most vigilance should always be exerted to guard the patient from the risk of secondary hemorrhage. (See Dtipuytren, Lecons Orales, t. iv.fp. 428.) These kinds of secondary hemorrhage, as Baron Dupuytren justly observes, are much more diffi- cult to stop, than such as come on immediately or soon after amputation. The cellular tissue is de- prived of its natural suppleness and flexibility ; and is so thickened and changed that every fresh liga- ture cuts through it. Generally, also, the direct ap- plication of a ligature to the bleeding part of the arteries is impracticable; because, as,the coats of the vessel adhere to the neighbouring' textures, it either cannot be taken hold of, or is torn with the least efi'ort being made with the forceps to draw it out. As for permanent compression, this is fre- quently ineffectual, and attended with too much pain. Under these circumstances, it is better to expose and tie the principal artery at some dis- tance above the stump. (Op. vol. i. cit. p. 429.) Thus, in a case of secondary iiemorrhage after am- putation of the leg, where the bleeding returned notwithstanding the repeated application of the ligature, and even the actual cautery, Baron Du- puytren took up the femoral artery in the upper third of the thigh, and the result was perfectly successful. The same practice has succeeded with others. Mr. Listen informs us, that he has had recourse to it in many cases, and uniformly with success. (See Elements, part iii. p. 371.) This gentleman no- tices a kind of secondary hemorrhage, which docs ^ "..^v., tviiji^ii nu< not consist in an arterial and rapid flow, but in ;i slow and continual oozing from the dark'ulcerated cavities round the end of the bone. This case is ascribed by Mr. Liston to diseased action in the cancellated texture of the bone ; and the treat- ment which he recommends is that of removing the conguhi, filling the cavity with lint, and anplyiiK. Iim pressure. (See Liston's Elcm. part iii. p. 372.) On Protrusion op the Bone. It appeared to M. Louis, tliat this disngrocablo consequence may generally he-prevented by takinir care to divide the loose muscles first, and after their complete retraction, uiiresistod liy any band or tourniquet, by observing to divide with a bis- tom-y the muscles which adhere to the bone. By