794 [Gonorrheal inflammation may extend the hhtJTu °f "retl-ra, and even to he bladder Itself. Sir A. Cooper describes the appear- ance of the urethra in a criminal executed while labouring under gonorrhoea, in the following terms : J? or an mch and a half down, the urethra was exceedmgly red, and there was some effusion of matter on the internal surface ; the urethra was _ red at the bulb, but not of so deep a colour. The ' inflammation, therefore, is not confined to an inch and a half down the urethra, but often extends over the bulb, and in this way produces stric- tures."j When the inflammation is violent, some of the vessels of the urethra often burst, and a discharge ot blood ensues. Sometimes such blood is only just enough to give the matter a tinge. In other instances erections cause an extravasation by stretching the part. When the inflammation goes more deeply tlian the membranous lining, and affects the reticular, or spongy structure of the urethra, it produces in it an extravasation of coagulable Jymph, the consequence of which is a chordee. Mr. Hunter suspected that the disease is com^ municated or creeps along from the glans to the . urethra, or, at least, from the lips of the urethra to Its inner surface, as it is impossible that the infectious matter can, during coition, get as far as the disease extends. He mentions an instance in winch a gentleman who had not cohabited with any woman for many weeks, to all appearance caught a gonorrhoea from a piece of plaster, which Had adhered to his glans penis while he was at a privy abroad ; the infection is accounted for by supposing that some person with a clap had pre- viously been to the place and had left behind some of the discharge, and that the above gentle- man had allowed his penis to remain in contact with the matter till it had dried. Many symptoms, depending on the sympathy ot other parts with the urethra, sometimes ac- company a gonorrhcea. An uneasiness, partakino- ot soreness and pain, and a kind of weariness, are felt about every part of the pelvis. The scrotum, testicles, perinsBUm, anus, and hips, become dis- agreeably sensible, and the testicles often require to be suspended. So irritable indeed are they in such cases, that the least accident, or even exercise, which would have no effect of this kind at any other time, will niake them swell. The glands ot the groin are often affected sympathetically, become swollen, and even occasionally suppurate, but not so generally as when they inflame from the absorption of chancrous matter. Mr. Hunter has seen the irritation of a gonorrhoea so extensive as to render the thighs, buttocks, and abdominal muscles paintul. He knew one gentleman who never had a gonorrhoea without being immediately seized with universal rheumatic pains. Gonorrhoeal ilieumatism is now recognised as a frequent and severe complaint. frJ!^^"" ^''^'I'swder, exclusive of the affections ho^ .^y^Pathy, is not more violent than has or Llf^''^'^'^' Hunter termed it a common, iff^norrh^a; but, if the paticn GONORRHCEA. other mn^„ I- '""-"""'I, oi' 01 any V nere7 f,?"°" "'^^ accompany the and inflamL^- "^'^ '""cumstances the irritation 'ntlammation sometimes exceed the specific distance, and extend through the whole urethra. Ihere is often a considerable degree of pain in the penncBum ; and a frequent, though not a constant symptom, IS a spasmodic contraction of the aece- leratores urinaj and erectores muscles. In these cases, the inflammation is sometimes considerable and goes deeply into the cellular tissue, but with- out producing any effect, except swelling. In other instances jt goes on to suppuration, often becoming one of the causes of fistulee in perinjeo. Ihus, Cowpers glands may suppurate, and the irritation often extends even to the bladder itseli. When the bladder is affected, it becomes more susceptible of every kind of irritation. It will not bear the usual distension, and therefore the patient cannot retain his water the ordinary time- and the moment the desire of making water takes place he is obliged instantly to make it, with violent pain in the bladder, and still more in the glans penis, exactly similar to what happen m a fit of the stone. If the bladder be not allowed to discharge its contents immediately the pain becomes almost intolerable ; and even when the water is evacuated, there remains for some time a considerable pain both in the bladder and glans. Sometimes, though rarely, when the bladder IS much affected, the ureters, and even the kid- neys sympathise ; and Mr. Hunter had reason to suspect that the irritation might be communi- cated to the peritoneum, by means of the vas deferens. Mr. Hunter mentions a case in which, while the inflammatory symptoms of a gonorrhoea were abating, an incontinence of urine came on ; but, m time, spontaneously subsided. ' A very common symptom attending a gonor- rhoea is a swelling of the testicle, (See Testi- cle, Diseases of.) Another occasional consequence is a sympathetic swelling of the inguinal glands, (See Bubo.) A hard cord is sometimes observed leading • from the prepuce along the back of the penis, and often directing its course to one of the groins, and affecting the glands. At the part of the pre- ■ puce where the chord takes its rise, there is most commonly a swelling. This sometimes happens when an excoriation and a discharge from "the prepuce, or glans penis, exist. Thus the symptoms of gonorrhoea in different cases seem to be subject to infinite variety. The discharge often appears without any pain ; and the coming on of the pain is not at any stated time after the appearance of the discharge. There is often no pain at all, although the discharge is in considerable quantity, and of a bad appearance. The pain often goes off, while the discharge con- tinues, and will return again. In some cases, an itching is felt for a considerable time, which is sometimes succeeded hy pain ; though, in many cases, it continues till the end of the disease. On the other hand, the pain is often troublesome, and considerable, oven when there is little or no dis- charge. Tlie neighbouring parts sympathise, as the glands of the groin, the testicle, the loins and pubes, the upper parts of the thighs, and the abdominal muscles. Sometimes the disease ap- pears a few hours after the application of the poison ; sometimes not till six weeks have elapsed. Lastly, it is often impossible to determine whether