CHOROIDITIS. The only two good observations of choroiditis which I ain acquainted with are those given in Mr. Bowman s Lectures. {Appendia,, Cases M. and AT., p. 123, 1. c.) "Case M.—Pklebilic opMlmlmUis after ampu- tahon, wiek an account of the post-mortem eaa- nmialion of the teoeture of the eye, and remarks. .... The patient complained of his left eye smarting and itching, and it appeared to be affected with slight catarrhal ophthalmia. There was super- licial redness with mucous discharge. On the fol- lowing day the inflammation had increased with frightful rapidity; there was excessive florid chemosiB partly concealing the cornea ; the lids wore turgid, and the eye wanted none of the characters of a severe attack of purulent ophthal mia, except the purulent discharge. The pain in the globe was of an aching, darting kind. The cornea remained clear, but the aqueous humor and ins were muddy, and sight was totally lost. Ihe chemosed membrane was scarified, and four leeches were applied, which had the effect of speedily reducing the colour of the conjunctiva to a pale yellowish pink tint, and the chemosis be- came of the sort which is known as 'serous.' This speedy change was accelerated by his weakened state, and showed that active depletion was inad- missible. Fomentations were then applied. The general treatment was continued, with an opiate at bed-time. The day after, dull pain in the eye continued, and the chemosis had increased and projected between the lids, but was pale and serous. The cornea had become cloudy, the chambers were yellowish, the iris obscured by lymph, the pupil occupied by a yellow mass of lymph, which looked like an opaque lens. Thi lids had become less cedematous, so that the con- dition of tlie interior of the organ could be more exactly noted One week later was the_ IjTnph absorbed from the iris and the pupil, which resumed very nearly their natural appear- ance, the Mtter only remaining rather turbid. He had lost almost all pain in the organ, and the rnorbid action within seemed entirely checked. Some pale chemosis remained, but the cornea was clear, and the globe wore no appearance of internal suppuration. All pain in the organ had likewise ceased. On examination of the eye after death, the iris as seen through the transparent cornea was clear green, without lymph on its surface, but firmly adherent by its entire posterior surface to the capsule of the lens, which presented only a partial opacity near its centre. This posterior synechia and opacity of the capsule appeared of old standing, (and the patient had stated that this eye had been a poor one, and vision imperfect with it for many years). The lens itself was perfectly transparent. Under one of the recti, immediately behind its insertion, the sclerotica (and also the choroid) was much bulged •ind so distended as to be almost giving way, by pressure from within. It formed what would have been termed, from its shape and circum- scribed figure, a staphyloma sclerotiere. In order to ascertain its nature, I carefully cut all round It through the sclerotica only, and in detaching this coat, 1 toniid that it was extremely thin, and its "l'"''"^'" ^vere, unravelled at the apex, where iecLt 1 1™"^ 7",', '^^'l'^''"'', it a film of luue else tnan nucicatca cells, wnicu lormcu i, from wifr ' '""'ri sclerotica, distended of rounded shape, floating in a turbid serum. The wuuin, I lie outer surface of the choroid! capillaries of the retina and the nervous tissue of was perfectly natural, except at the apex of the swelling. On now cutting through the choroid, a whey-like fimd, with particles of lymph floating in XlTf-^"" "^""fT^"^'. I fo"nd that t'his effused fluid was filled with nucleated and other irregular granules hanging together in little masses and resembling lymph rather than pus. In this turbid fluid there lay loosely a great number of smooth, roimd or oval beads of soft yellow lymDh of every size up to that of a rape-seed, and these consisted of an agglomeration of nucleated lymi.h particles, with many shapeless granules in the con- necting material. Scarcely any fibres could be discovered. I emptied the cavity between the choroid and retina in which this effusion had col- lected, by syringing it under water, and the inner surface of the choroid then exhibited a coatin? of yellow lymph, which appeared to be deposited not merely on the surface but also in the interstices of the capillary network which lies under the epithelium forming that smface, almost all trace of epithelium being lost. The vitreous humor in Its enveloping hyaloid membrane, together with the broken remains of the retina, had been thrown by the effusion to the central part of the globe, where they occupied only about half their natural space. The retina was not at all coated with lymph, and its capillary network was perfect, but the nervous substance was in a great measure destroyed, as though macerated; yet what remained exhibited the characteristic elements of the nervous substance of that part. Jacob's membrane was nowhere visible. The hyaloid texture was ever^-- where entire, but thrown into innumerable minute folds, in consequence of its collapsed form. A good many lymph globules were accumulated on its ex- terior in certain parts, and the nuclei naturally present on its inner surface were very distinctly visible. Every part of the vitreous humor was turbid and cloudy, from a finely granular and amorphous deposit in its substance. In addition to this there were disseminated through thevitreous humor innumerable nucleated cells, like those of the lymph already described. These nucleated particles were much more numerous immediately within the hyaloid capsule, in the superficial por- tions of the vitreous humor, than towards the centre, where they very gradually ceased. In the central part of the vitreous humor there were none of the nucleated particles, but in the neigh- bourhood of the optic foramen and yellow spot, and particularly near the ciliary processes at the' border of the lens, and near its posterior surface, they were so abundant as to render the vitreous humor perfectly opaque and yellow; yet even here they only differed in number from those found elsewhere Remarhs: The principal seat of the effusion of lymph in this case is veiy interesting to notice, if wo bear in mind that the choroid membrane, from which it seems to have proceeded, has its capillaries on its inner surface; its arteries, and especially its ample veins on its outer surface. The effusion was on the inner sur- face and clearly from the capillaries ; the arteries and veins forming the outer surface were quite healthy; there was not a particle of lymph nbout them, except where the tunics were giving way. The deposit was of lymph—of lymph consisting of 'ittle else than nucleated cells, which formed masses