j [Mr. Travel's removed the entire clavicle in a ] boy ten years of age for a tumor involving nearly the whole bone. Tlie boy recovered the full and free use of the arm. (Souih's Translution ofChelius, p. 1003.)] The excision oftlie scapula, to a greater or lesers extent, has been performed on several occasions In one instance a considerable portion of the sea pnla was removed by M. Janson, on account of a tumor involving it. Two semi-elliptical in- cisions were made, so as to circumscribe the swell- ing; as much skin as possible was dissected up and saved : the tumor and bone were then de- tached from their connections in every direction, as low down as the fossa sub'capularis. The at- tachments of the trapezius, supra and infra spi- natus, having been divided, and the portion of the bone above the spine ascertained to be sound, all the other diseased part was sawn off, and the shoulder joint left uninjured. One more incision ■ was necessary to expose the whole of the tumor, and facilitate its excision. The wound was alto- gether six inches in breadth, and nine in length. The motion of the shoulder was preserved. A large tumor of the scapula was removed more than twenty years ago by Mr. Earle ; but, as the disease returned, Mr. Skey removed it a second time, to- gether with the greater part of the scapula. The disease however, being of a malignant character, again returned and proved fatal. Several cases of this description have been lately met with in the hospitals of this metropolis. One was in Uni- versity College Hospital, under Mr. Listen. I heard of another in the Westminster Plospital. [On the 1st of October, 1826, Mr. Syme re- moved the whole of the scapula for fungoid disease, miplicating the entire bone. The following account of the operation is taken from the Medico-Chi- rurgical Transactions,vol. il. p. 108, where the case IS thus described by Mr. Syme. " The patient being fully under the influence of chloroform, and placed on her right side, I made an incision from the acro- mion process transversely to the posterior edge of the scapula, and another from the centre of this one directly downwards, below the lower margin of the tumor. The flaps thus formed being re- flected without much hjemorrhage, I separated the scapular attachment of the deltoid, and divided the connections of the acromial extremity of the cla- vicle. Then wishing to command tlie subscapular artery, I divided it with the efi'ect of giving issue to a fearful gush of blood, but fortimately caught the vessel and tied it without any delay. I ne.\t cut into the joint and round the glenoid cavity, hooked my finger under the coracoid process, so as to facilitate the division of its muscular and lio-a- mentous attachments, and then pulling back the bono with all the force of my left hand, separated Its remainmg attachments with rapid sweeps of the knife. The vessels requiring ligature having boon tied, the edges of the wound were stitched together ind covered with dry lint, a bandage being lastly ipplied round the clicst to give proper support, and ceep the arm in its place." _ " Everything went on favourably after the opora- .lon, and a great part of tlie wound healed by the irst intention. The discharge, which was at first ather copious and thin, in the course of n few days limiiiished to nn aiuouiit so small, as to remove all pprehension of its exhausting the patient. At he end of a fortniglit the discharge was reduced BONES, EXCISION OF. 345 to little more than sufficient for staining the ban- dage, so that it seemed as if complete recovery would very soon be accomplished. But through an opening about an inch in length, where the edges of the transverse incision remained ununited, the head of the humerus could be seen still covered with its cartilage, which however, in the course of another week began to disappear, and to give place to granulations gradually extending from the neck over the convexity of the bone ; while the cavity at the same time contracted until the humerus and clavicle came nearly in contact, and the shoulder, especially when viewed in front, assumed a won- derfully natural appearance. The patient, who from an early period after the operation had with difficulty been restrained from using the arm too freely, again and again declared that it was in no wise inferior to the sound one, and it appeared in- deed that through the support aflbrded by the cla- vicular portion of the deltoid, together witli the action of the pectoralis and latissimus dorsi, the hmb would be able to execute a fair degree of motion." " While the local state of matters was thus pro- ceeding in the most favom-able and satisfactory manner, it could not escape observation that the patient's strength did not improve in a correspond- ing degree. On the contrary, without any reason that could be discovered, except old age, she gradu- ally became weaker and more emaciated, though still retaining appetite for food, and performing her bodily functions with so much appearance of health ;is still to encourage the hope of ultimate recovery. But towards the end of November, symptoms of sinking suddenly presented themselves, and ter- minated in death on the 1st of December." Mr. Jones, of Jersey, has also recently removed the entire scapula and part of the clavicle in a case of caries combined with necrosis aifecting both these bones The patient was a young girl between 14 and 15 years of age. At the time of the operation the textures covering the shoulder were generally thickened and puffy, and tender to the touch. Several fistulous openings led to exposed bone at various points of the scapula and clavicle The discharge of matter was profuse and oft'ensive and the girl's health and strength were rapidly failin"- Under these circumstances, on the JOth of May' 1858, Mr. Jones proceeded to remove the diseased bones. "An incision was first made along the whole extent of the spine of the scapula, and car- ried an inch beyond towards the niesian line' of the back ; another incision was then made to meet this along the upper border of the bone down to Its inferior angle. The integuments were raised by careful dissection and by this process the whole bone was fairly exposed." The .acromial end of the clavicle being softened and altered by disease an inch of the bone was removed. The nos tenor scapular was the only vessel which re" quired a igature The head of the humerus was found healthy and covered by its natural cartilage I he wound healed en tirely by grnm.latioii, am the patient made a good recovery. At the end of a montli she could sew withmit pain or difficulty Seven months after the operation she could raise her m-ni twelve inchc^s from her side, and could support >t hori/untally from the body with very slisrht exertion. She could u.so the limb for .all the ordi "ary purpos.'s of daily occupation, the power of rotation, however, was lost. Slie could raise her