iiit, or merely the separation of a gangrenous limb 1 a natural process, and a little assistance of the !i;eon, may admit of dispute. T believe that H. , Le Dran performed tlie first operation of this , lid of whicli the particulars are clearly recorded. It was in a case of caries and exostosis, reaching li.iin the middle to the neck of the humerus. Le I'lan began with rendering himself master of the I 'eeding, for which purpose he introduced astraight 1 'edle, and a strong ligature under the artery, i liis was passed from the front to the back part of the arm, as closely to the axilla and bone as " issible. The ligature, then, including the vessels, y flesh surrounding them, and the skin covering . em, was tightened over a compress. Le Dran, with a straight narrow knife, then made a trans- viTse incision through the skin and deltoid muscle dinvn to the joint, and tlirough the ligament sur- munding the head of the humerus. An assistant nnw raised the arm, and dislocated the head of the | i>ne from the cavity of ihe scapula. This al- lowed the knife to be passed with ease between the hone and the flesh. Le Dran then carried the knife downward, keeping its edge always somewhat inclined towards the bone. In this manner he gra- dually cut through all the parts, as far as a little below the ligature. As there was a large flap, Le Dran made a second ligature with a curved needle, w hich ligature included a great deal of flesh, the redundant portion of which was cut off together with the first ligature, which had become useless. The cure was completed in about ten weeks. [Obs. de Cliir. t. i. p. 315, Paris, 1731 ; and Traiit des Oper. p. 365.) Le Dran (the son), who published this memorable case, does not state that the operation was a new one ; and it appears from the Recherches Cntiques sur I'Origine, ^c. de la Chirurgie en France, and from La Faye's notes on Dionis, that it had been previously prac- tised by Morand the father. Garengeot thought that the ligature might be applied by means of a curved needle, with sharp edges; and, in order to lessen the wound, he directs the incision to begin two or three finger-breadths below the acromion, across the deltoid muscle, so as to form one flap ; then a lower one was made in the axilla; and after the second ligature had been applied, tlie two flaps were brought into contact. (TraHe des Oper. de Chir. t. iii. p. 350; Mem de I'Acad de Chir. t. ii. p. 261.) La Faye extended the improvements further. After placing the patient in a chair, and bringing the arm into a horizontal position, he made a trans- verse incision in the deltoid muscle down to the hone, four finger-breadths below the acromion. Two other incisions, one in front and the other behind, descended perpendicularly to this first, and made a large square flap which was detached, and turned up towards the top of the shoulder. 'J'he two heads of the biceps, the tendons of the siipra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor and sub- srapularis, and the capsular ligament, were next divided. Now, when the assistant, who held the lower part of the limb, made the bone describe the motion of a lever, upward, the head of the bone was casil}- dislocated. La Faye next carried iiis incision downward, along the inner part of the arm, until he was able to fee! the vessels, which he tied as near the axilla as possible. The separation of the limb was then completed, a finger's breadth below the ligature. The flap was then brought AMPUTATION. 89 down over the glenoid cavitj', and the wound dressed. (See Noimelle Methodepourfaire COpera- lion de VAmpiitalion duns f ArLicidalio7i du Draa avec I'Oinoplate, par M. La Faye, in Mem. de PAcad. de Chirurgie, t. v. p. 195, ed. in 12mo.) The advantages of La Faye's plan are obvious. As only one ligature was applied, the patient was saved a great deal of pain : the flap connected with the acromion was capable of covering the whole surface of the wound, and was more easily applied and kept on the stump than the lowermost of the two flaps which Garengeot recommended; and the discharge found a ready outlet downwards. The amputation by external flap formed from the deltoid muscle is yet regarded as one of the most approved, where the state of the soft parts will admit of it. In 1760, P. H. Dahl published at Gottingen a disseitation on amputation at the shoulder. In this tract a tourniquet was proposed, the pad of which was calculated to press upon the subclavian artery under the clavicle, and enabled the operator to dispense with tying the vessels in the first in- stance. Camper had observed, that if the scapula were pushed backward, and the axillary artery pressed with the finger between the clavicle, cora- coid process, and great pectoral muscle, the pulse at the wrist might be instantlj' stopped. Dahl's tourniquet was obviously constructed, in consequence of what Camper had observed. It is made of a curved elastic plate of steel, to the short- est end of which a pad is attached, capable of pro- jecting further by means of .a screw. The instru- ment embraces the shoulder from behind forward, while the pad presses on the hollow under the cla- vicle, between the margins of the deltoid and pec- toral muscles. The long extremity of the steel plate, which descends behind the shoulder, is fixed to the body by a sort of belt. The pad is de- pressed imtLl the pulsation of the axillary artery is stopped. Further experience has proved, however, that this tourniquet may be dispensed with, and the flow of blood in the axillary artery commanded, by properly compressing this vessel with the end of akeycovi.rcd with soft materials, or even with the fingers alone, as some operators prefer, at the place where the vessel emerges from between the scaleni muscles, above the middle part of the clavicle. Thus the artery is pressed between the pad or fin- gers and the first rib, across which it runs. In certain plans of operation hereafter to be described, all compression of the artery either above or below the clavicle, is dispensed with. The principal methods of .imputating at the shoulder-joint, may be comprised under four va- rieties; 1st, the operation with the circular incision; 2nd, with one flap ; 3rd, with tivo flaps; 4th, by the oval incision; but it will be obvious that no mode of amputating at the shoulder can be exclu- sively employed in all the cases requiring the operation, because the soft parts around the joint are frequently destroyed, or very much injured, to a greater or lesser extent, so that the surgeon is obliged to save skin and muscles wherever he can find them. Circular Method.—In 1774, Alanson amputated at the shouldor-joint, as follows: — The subclavian artery was compressed by the fingers of an assis- tant. An incision was made about a hand's breadth below the acromion, uud carried through