jecretion, and the digestive functions in general, llichter tells us of a man, who lost his sight, a few hours after being in a violent passion, and recovered It again the next day, upon taking an emetic, by which a considerable quantity of bile was evacu- ated. A woman is also cited, who became blind whenever she was troubled with acidities of the stomach. (See Anfangs. dcr Wtmdarzn. b. iii. kap. 14.) However, according to Beer, if the case from worms be excepted, imperfect amaurosis seldom depends upon disorder of the gastric organs. (Lehre von den Aitgenk. b. ii. p. 456.) ; a very im- portant difference from the statements of Schmucker, Richter, and Scarpa. The close sympathy be- tween the stomach and the eyes is well illustrated by a case referred to by Mr. Lawrence, where an amaurosis, with fixed pain over the eyebrow in a child, was not relieved by purging and other de- pletive measures; an emetic was at last given; and under its action, a bead was rejected from the sto- mach, and the amaurosis immediately disappeared. Just as amaurosis is frequently a pure symp- tomatic effect of various disordered states of the constitution, so may different morbid changes, oc- casioned in the eye by those states of the hea'lth, become the proximate cause of amaurosis, as cirs- ophthalmia, fungus hsematodes, dissolution of the vitreous humour, glaucoma, &c. _ One case, very analogous to amblyopia senilis, 18 believed to depend upon a diminution of the pigmentum nigrum, which secretion, in some indi- viduals earlier and more considerably, iij others later and in a slighter degree, recedes with other secretions of a different nature. (See Beer's Lehre von den Augenl;r. b. ii. p. 451, &c.) Mr. Middlemore is certain that he has met with cases in_ which a diminution in the quantity of the cho- roid pigment was the sole defect in the eye, and constituted the adequate and efficient cause of impaired vision. Cases of this description, he says, are for the most part attended by a con- tracted pupil and great intolerance of light; and vision, though seriously impaired, is seldom de- stroyed. (Op. et vol. cit. p. 273.) I think with Mr. Travers, that the history and concomitant appearances of amaurosis will often denote whether the case is organic or functioned. For example, diseased changes in the situation or texture of the eyeball, or in the brain, a hemi- plegia, or partial paralysis, with other signs of apoplectic or hydrocephalic pressure, whether re- sulting from an injury of the head, or otherwise, or an acute deep-seated inflammation, whether ac- companied by a visible opacity or not, point out ttie organic nature of the affection. I have seen (continues Mr. Travels) such an amaurosis pro- duced by abscess in the cerebral substance, and by medullary disease of the cerebrum. On the other hand, I have known the followinrr distinct sources of irritation produce functional amaurosis, viz. a wound of tlie scalp, caries of tlic dkull, abscess and caries of the antrum max- illare, with excessive oedema of the integuments of the lids and cheek, a large abscess under the masscter and muscles of the cheek, and an abscess at the extremity of a molar tooth, while the crown of the tooth was sound. In all these cases, it is to be understood that the eye was sound, and the orbit was untouched by the disease of the parts in the vicinity, to which the amaurosis was clearly attributable. In like manner, an excessive use, or AMAUROSIS. 35 rather abuse, of the visual faculty, the disordered functions of the stomach, liver, uterus, &c., sudden and alarming depletion, excessive or obstinately suppressed secretions, difficult dentition, the presence of worms in the intestinal canal, and the deleterious effects of noxious agents upon the organ, or the system, are sufficiently obvious causes of the functional amaurosis." (Si/nojms, 4'c. p. 142.) In general, recent cases afford a greater prospect of cure than others of long standing; and the same may be said with respect to examples, in which the eyesight is merely lessened and not completely extinguished. Amaurosis is occasionally caused by, or associ* ated with, hysteria, hypochondriasis, epilepsy, or convulsions, but in these cases is rarely permanent, and usually subsides as soon as the spasmodic, epi- leptic, or convulsive attack is over. However, the com- plaint may begin at two periods, viz. either during such an attack, or (what is more uncommon) after- wai-ds, and it never loses its symptomatic character. The pupil, which is much dilated, always remains perfectly clear and of a siiining blackness, even when the disease has induced entire blindness; but a slight dull pain in the forehead, especially about the eyebrow, constantly preceding and ac- companying the blindness, generally lasts a good while after the amaurosis has completely subsided. As this amaurosis is merely a symptomatic effect of the above general disorders, its removal must entirely depend upon the success with which their treatment is conducted. (Beer, Lehre von den Augenkr. b. ii. p. 506—510.) With respect to rlieumalic amaurosis, we do not in this country recognise any distinct form of amaurosis entitled to the name of rheumatic, though Beer has minutely described such a case. No doubt a certain proportion of amaurotic pa- tients suffer from rheumatism ; but I agree with those pathologists who do not acknowledge rheu- matism as having been clearly proved to be a cause of amaurosis. Gotdy Amaurosis.—According to Mr. Travers gout attacks the eye through the medium of the' stomach. Vomiting occurs, with pain in that organ, on the subsidence of an inflammation in the extremities, and is succeeded by violent pain in the head. The loss of sight, he adds, is sudden and permanent. {Sipiopsis, S^-c. p. 163.) The gouty amaurosis, described by Beer, is perhaps badly named: at all events, there are some circum- stances in its history which must create doubts about its dependence upon gout. "We can admit " says Mr. Lawrence, " that the nervous structure of the eye may be diseased in the rheumatic and gouty, as well as in other persons ; but it will require clearer evidence than we possess at ijresent to show, that there are distinct gouty and rheu- matic amauroses." (La^orence, op. cit. p. 510.) When we find Beer describing one form of gouty amaurosis as ^taking place only i„ dark^S s ender maiden ladies, who ha4 suffered fLi sciofula in their childhood, or from other severe Uiseases at a later period, and whose menses are megular, or have ceased, we must regard his evi- aences of gouty amaurosis as vague and fanciful. yviien amaurosif proceeds from disease of the "Plic nerves, or iheir sheatks, it comes on slowhr, and rarely attacks both eyes together. It com- mciices with a black cloud, which mows more and more dense, and with a troublesome, aluimiiig