346 hand to her mouth and to the opposite shoulder, but not to her head. There is no wasting of muscles on the chest and back, and when the patient is dressed very little deformity is perceived. The head of the humerus is easily felt moving freely in its new bed, and not the slightest pain is felt on any amount of motion. (See Medical Times and Gaxette, January 1, 1859, p. 21.)] [Resection of the Scapula and Clavicle together.'] [These bones have been several times removed to- gether for necrosis, and for malignant disease after the arm had been previously amputated at the shoulder-joint. Chelius has collected the following interesting and instructive cases iu which this operation was performed. "In 1818, a patient consulted Mussey of Cincin- nati about a tumor connected with the thumb, for which the first metacarpal bone \yas removed. Several years later, pain attacked the humerus, which became greatly enlarged, and in 1831 the arm was amputated at the shoulder-joint. In 1836 the same disease appeared in the shoulder, and accordingly Mussey undertook the complete removal of the scapular and clavicle iu September 1837. The tumor was round and prominent, measuring horizontally over the summit, from the anterior to the posterior margin of its base, four- teen inches, and vertically, from the upper to the lower margin of its base, ten inches. The integu- ments were dissected away from the clavicle, that bone disjointed from the sternum, its sternal ex- tremity elevated and detached from the subclavius muscle, so as to admit the finger of an assistant being passed under it to secure the subclavian arterj'. The subsequent steps of the operation consisted in plain, coarse, and sometimes rapid dis- section. Having tied the subclavian artery, Mussey divided the accompanying vein, when a bubble of air passed into the latter, which caused the patient instantly to swoon, and he was roused with much difficulty from this state of collapse. The immense wound, with flaps of seven or eight inches in extent, united by adhesion, and be- came consolidated and sound, literally without the formation of a teaspoonful of pus. In less than three weeks the patient was dismissed and he rode home in a stage-coach between thirty and forty miles, and remained sound and well in November." "In 1841, Rigaud of Strasburg amputated a man's arm at the shoulder-joint, for disease of the humerus. The man recovered and remained well for eight months. A tumor was then found growing from the scapula, and Rigaud removed the whole of this bone, together with the outer extremity of the clavicle'in 1842. In two months the parts were healed, and the man remained well in July, 1844." " M'Clellan of Philadelphia removed the scapula and clavicle from a boy. The patient recovered after the operation, but died from a return of the malignant disease in another part. Gilbert of Philadelphia is also reported to have removed the scapula and clavicle." In 1847 Mr. Fergnsson removed the scapula and the sternal half of the clavicle for disease of those bones; the humerus and the glenoid cavuy of the scapula had been previously re- 'fi??*^ extensive caries. "Ten or twelve tistulous openings communicated from the surface with the carious bone, which seemed to bo so BONES, EXCISION OF. extensively diseased that Fergusson considere<i It best to remove the whole bone. An incision was made beginning an inch and a half from the sternal end of the clavicle, along that bone to the acromion ; room was thus made to apply a saw to the middle of the bone. An incision was next made, in the course of the spine of the scapula nearly to the base. The first cut was then ex- ended down into the axilla. The posterior flaps were now partially dissected off the thickened mass covering the scapula; the anterior next raised, then the m. pectora/is minor, next the jii, trapezius were cut through, and the bone being forcibly pulled outwards, was soon severed by the division of the other muscles and tissues. The anterior attachment of the trapezius had been in part divided when making way for the saw on the clavicle." " Gaetani Bey, in the case of a bov fourteen years old, who had been severely wounded in the shoulder, by the discharge of an old piece of artil- lery, which exploded whilst remelting, amputated at the shoulder-joint, removed the whole blade, bone, which had been broken into several pieces, and cut off the acromial end of the collar-bone. In about two months the wounds were healed." {Chelius, Translated by South, p. 1004.)] Excision of the Supkrior Maxillary Bonb. In the article Antruji, certain states of disease of this cavity are noticed, in which the only chance of cure depends upon the entire removal of the upper jaw-bone itself. I allude to osteo-sarcoma-f tons, fibrous, and other tumors, which originate within the antrum, and by enlargement produce such an impairment of, and pressure upon, the sur- rounding organs and textures, as must ultimately prove fatal, unless a bold attempt be made to ex- tirpate every part of the osseous texture, serving as a place of attachment to the swelling. Merely excising the alveoli, and front of the antrum, and then attacking the tumor with the knife, cauteiy, or caustic, generally fails. Baron Dupuytren was led to suspect that, by the excision of the upper jaw-bone, its total extirpation might be performed with a successful result. He was induced to form this opinion from the consideration of the e.vamples on record, where the patients recovered after most severe mechanical injuries of the face, and necrosis, occasioning the destruction of the bone. Canipn- mentions a case, in which the whole of the b<no came away, in consequence of necrosis, and t c patient was cured. Acoluthus is stated, indeed, to have actually removed the upper jaw-bone fi>r a tumor of the face, as long ago as 1693. Bidlno and Desault also anticipated Dupuytren in tlie be- lief, that the upper jaw-bone might be successfully extirpated, though they never undertook the opera- tion themselves. The bulletins of the Faculty of Medicine at Paris prove that Dupuytren removed, at all events, the greater part of the bone, in 1!1'24: but, as Mj\I. Pillet and Gensoul contend, probably not the whole of it. M. Velpeau states that, in; 1824, Mr. Rogers of New York removed both upper jaw-bones, as far back as the pterygoid pro- cesses, and this without making scarcely any in- cision through the lip. (See Notiv. Elhn. t. i. p. 54,9.) In 1826, Mr. Lizars also advocated the removal of the whole of the upper jaw-bone, and lie performed the operation with success, in 1827, 1828, and 1830. In May, 1827, M. Gensoul,