ovale, but the obturator extemus muscle was com- pletelj' absorbed, as well as the ligament natuially occupying the foramen, now entirely filled by bone. Around the foramen ovale bony matter was deposited, so as to form a deep ciip, in which the head of the thigh-bone was enclosed, but in such a manner as to admit of considerable motion. The original acetabulum was half filled by bone, so that it could not have received the head of the thigh- bone if an attempt had been made to return it into its natural situation." M. Malgaigne gives a re- presentation (see pi. xxvii. figs. 4. and 5.) and minute description of an old dislocation of this kind, which he considers as mcomplele.'] Reduction.—In general, dislocations on the ob- turator foramen are easy of reduction. The pelvis having been fixed, the extension is to be made downwards and outwards, so as just to dislodge the head of the bone. The muscles then generally draw it into the acetabulum, on the extending force being gradually relaxed, if the upper part of the bone be pulled outward with a bandage, and the ankle be at the same time inclined inwards. Thus the limb is used as a lever, with very con- siderable power. Mr. Hey says that " in this species of disloca- tion (forwards and downwards), as the head of the bone is situated lower than the acetabulum, it is evident that an extension made in a right line with the trunk of the body, must remove the head of the bone farther from its proper place, and thereby prevent, instead of assisting, reduction. The extension, he conceives, ought to be made with the thigh at a right angle, or inclined some- wliat less than a right angle, to the trunk of the body. When the extension has removed the head of the bone from the external obturator muscle, which covers the great foramen of the os innomi- natum, the upper part of the os femoris must then be pushed or drawn outwards; which motion will be greatly assisted by moving the lower part of the OS femoris at the same moment, in a contrary direction; and, by a rotatory motion of the bone upon its own axis, turning the head of the bone towards the acetabulum." {Ilei/, p. 316.) [In the plan recommended by Sir A. Cooper, the extending force is made to act directly upon the upper part of the dislocated tliigh, in the up- ward and outward direction. His instructions are, " to place the patient on his back, to separate the thighs as widely as possible, and to place a girtii between the pudendum and the upper part of the luxated tliigh, to which is fixed the hook of the pulleys, which are to be attached to a staple, placed on the same side as the injured limb of the patient; while the counter-extending force for fixing the pelvis is composed of a girth, which is com- pletely to surround both ilia; and one end of which is to be admitted through the noose formed by the girth attached to the dislocated limb. It then being attached to the opposite staple, the two girths, during tlie application of the extending power, are made to fix each other. This apparatus being properly adjusted, the surgeon should direct that extension should be gradually made with the pul- leys until the head of the femur can be felt moving from the foramen ovale. He is then to pass his hand behind the ankle of the sound limb, and to grasp the ankle of the dislocated extremity, and draw it inwards towards the middle line of the patient's body. He thus acts upon the dislocated DISLOCATION. 559 femur with the most powerful lever of the first order, and usually reduces the dislocation." It is important, in drawing the ankle inwards, to pull from behind, and not from in front of the sound limb; fur if the leg be advanced in any considerable degree, the head of the femur may pass beneath, instead of into the acetabidum, and be thrown in the direction 'of the ischiatic notch — an accident which has occasionally happened. {On Disloca- tions, ^c. ed. by £. Cooper, p. C2.) Sometimes this form of dislocation is reduced with very little difficulty. Sir A. Cooper con- sidered it the most favourable in this respect of all the dislocations of the hip. M. Malgaigne men- tions one instance in which it was reduced by the patient himself, by pressing the head of the bone outwards with one hand, while with the other he attempted to carry the thigh inwards; and another, in which the bone was replaced spontaneously while the patient was turning himself in bed. A third case is also recorded, in which spontaneous—or rather, accidental—reduction took place after a lapse of considerable time. {Traitc des Fract. <^c. t. ii. pp. 31, 33.) In all cases, previous to making powerful exten- sion with the pulleys, the manipulation method should be tried, as it has been found quite as effec- tive in this as in the dislocation backwards and up- wards. In consequence, however, of the diametrically opposite position which the head of the bone occu- pies, the movements will require some modifica- tions : thus, when the thigh has been flexed upon the pelvis, it should be adducted instead of ab- ducted, and the rotatory movements shoidd have an inward instead of an outward direction. Pro- bably also it will not be necessary to flex the thigh to the same extent upon the abdomen; the eSect of that movement being to throw the head of the bone downwards, which is not desirable in this case, as it is already situated below its natural level. Flexion to a right angle with the abdomen, there- fore, will be quite as much as is necessary. In a case in which movement of this description failed to reduce the dislocation, Dr. Markoe suc- ceeded by rotating the thigh oittwards, and at the same time strongly adductiny it in a direction which carried the knee behind the other one. This, accompanied with the rocking motion, ac- complished the reduction on the first trial, and without the slightest violence or excess of force. The idea was, by rotating the thigh outwards, to throw up the head of the bono towards the acetabu- lum. (See N. Y. Journ. of Med. Jan. 1855, p. 34.)] 6. Dislocation forwards and upwards, on the Fultes—[Ilio-piMc, NeUtton, Malgai<j7ic.— This dislocation is usually the result of forced extension of the thigh backwards upon the trunk, or of the trunk backwards upon the thigh. Thus, says Sir A.Cooper, " it happens when a person while walking puts his foot into some unexpected hollow in the ground; and his bod}', being at the moment bent backwards, the head of the bono is thrown forwards upon the OS pubis." The same effect may also be produced by a blow, or by violent pressure applied poste- riori)', as when the wheel jf a carriage passes over the posterior and upper part of the tliigh. l^orcible rotation outwards, combined with abduction of the limb, is another, though less frequent, cause of this dislocation. (See Malgaigne, Traitc des Fract, t. ii. p. 841.)]