AMPUTATION. TIG brought togt'tlioC willi ildliesive plaster in the best manner possible, so as to represent a transverse line. 1 am sorry to add, that the patient lived only ti|l the following day. In one dreadful case of fracture of the npper part of the femur by a grape- shot, where the operation had been delayed too long, the whole limb being inundated witii matter, and the upper end of the lower portion of the bone projecting through the flesh backward, I ventured to perform the same operation at Oudenbosch m Holland, a few days after the assault on Bergen- op-Zoom ; and here happened what must often occur: immediately the soft parts had been di- vided, as the bone was broken to pieces, the hmb came off, leaving the head of the bone, the tro- chanters, and a small piece below them projectnig. Had not tlie man appeared in a very bad way by the time the vessels had been secured, I should now have removed the head of the bone ; but the shock of the operation was such that he survived it but a few minutes, though scarcely any blood was lost. The mode of operating by the circular incision is preferred by Graefe, who unknowingly considers it as a new method. {Normen fur die Ahl. grusscrer Glicdm. p. 118.) It has also been proposed by Dr. Veitch, with the modification of leaving an inch or two of the bone projecting, which°is done without giving any additional pain, by dissecting off the soft parts below the first in- cisions down to the bone. This projecting piece is intended to serve as a lever, with which the head of the bone is to be got out of the acetabu- lum. {Edin Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. in. p. 129.) Ingenious as this suggestion may be, I do not regard it as an important practical im- provement ; 1st, because in almost all cases where the operation is necessary, the bone is so fractured that its division is already made by the injury : 2ndlv, because the scheme is unnecessary ; for, in Dr Cole's case, where 1 assisted, the head of the femur was removed from the acetabulum with the utmost facility by merely making an incision oyer that cavit)', cutting the ligaments, and availing ourselves of the small piece of bone accidentally nroiecting. In fact, in all gunshot injuries re- quiring this operation, excepting a feNV instances of soreadine gangrene from wounds, the bone is fsuS broken too high for Dr. Veitch's method to be practicable. With the same view of faci- litating the exit of the head of the bone i^-om the acetabulum, Graefe (p. I'^f /----^//^fjS the transverse ligament which completes the bum of the anterior and inferior sides of socket. Disarticulation will always be free from difliculty, however, if the capsule be divided close to the borders of the acetabulum. Sir Astley Cooper commenced his operation by making an incision just below Ponpart's ligament, a little on the outside of the femoral artery. The wound was then carried obliquely downwards and outwards to the back of the tliigh, about one-third of the way down it, from which point the knife was carried in the opposite direction, obliquely xinwards and inwards to meet the first incision, so as to form an elliptical curve. The femoral irteVv being now divided, was immediately tied. The muscles were next cut tlirough, another artery „rpr1 and the bone taken out of its socket. oS about twelve ounces of blood were lost. K i»«;o«.-Tl.e following method recorri mended by M. Scoutteten, is stated not yet to have been practised on the living subject {Vel- pcau, Noiiv. Eleia. t. i. p. .'>2.')), though Sir Astley Cooper's plan seems to have been very niinilar to it in regard to the track of the incisions. The pa- tient is to lie on the opposite side of the body to that on which the operation is to be done. The inguinal artery is to be compressed. The surgeon, standing behind the limb, is to put the thumb or forefinger of his left hand on the great trochanter. With the right he introduces the point of the knife perpendicularly over this process, and then gra- dually depressing the handle, extends the incision forwards and inwards four finger-breadths below the groin. He then carries the knife round the limb, cutting as deeply as possible and bringing the knife at length up to the point from which the wound commenced. All the muscular fibres are rarely divided by this first incision, and hence the knife must generally be applied again, ere this first stage of the operation can be completed. For the purpose of getting at the capsule, the sides of the wound must be kept apart, and any muscular fibres, not yet cut, be divided. As soon as the capsule is perceived, it is to be cut through perpen- dicularly on the head of the femur. The limb is now to be somewhat depressed, and the foot turned outwards, whereby the head of the bone is forced nearly out of its socket, and quits it completely as soon as the round ligament is cut, which is the only part by which it is confined. The operator then raises the tliigh bone, so as to make its head project ; after which he cuts the rest of the capsule and muscular fibres, and completes the separation of the limb. Wiien the operation is on the left side, the surgeon stands in front of the limb. (See Scout- teten, Methode Oca/aire, ou Nouvellc Methode pour ampuler dans les Articulations, Paris, 1827, 4to.) This method has lately been adopted in five cases by Professor Ileyfelder, of Erlangen, and three of the patients recovered. He considers this mode of operation affords great advantages for the apposition and cicatrization of the wound, and altrilnites the success he has met with, in a great measure, to its employment. (Deutsche Klinik, March, 185.3.)] Anterior and Posterior Flaps. —Uv. Listen preferred anterior and posterior flaps. The pa- tient is placed on a firm table, with the nates projecting a little beyond its edge. The sound limb may be secured to the foot of the table with a towel • all occasion for an assistant to hold it being thus done away with, and more freedom afforded to the operator in his movements. The other limb is supported by one assistant, while another presses with one or both thumbs on the femoral artery, where it passes over the pubes. Transfixion is then performed horizontally, the knife passing m a somewhat semicircular direction, so as to include as much of the soft parts as possible, and an an- terior flap is made by cutting downwards. Dnnng the passage of the knife across the .lonit the assist- ant, holding the limb, rotates theJimb, if it be the rioht one, .a little outwards, or, if it be the left, in the contrary direction, so as to facilitate the bring- g of the point of the knife through the skn, ..M inwards. After the f°'-"'f^''^ ^ 'l^^^^^^^^ assistant abducts the limb forcibly, "'"^ J ! it ; the joint is opened ; the round ''f^'"'-;' " th^ rest of the capsule divided ; the blade o t e knife placed ^<^^^-^ posterior flap quickly forn ed. ^''^^ " • for the anterior flap, and when the sawing motion