!)60 "The circumscribed incompressible hardness, the situation of the tumor, and its being free from all connection with the spermatic process, will sufficiently point out a bubo, at least while it is in a recent state; and when it is in any degree suppiu-ated, he must have a very small share of the tacius erutlitus, who cannot feel the difference between matter, and either a piece of intestine or omentum. " The perfect equality of the whole tumor, the freedom and smallness of the spermatic process above it, the power of feeling the spermatic ves- sels and the vas deferens in that process, its being void of pain upon being handled, the fluctuation of the water, the gradual formation of the swelling, its having begun below and proceeded upwards, its not^ being affected by any posture or action of the patient, nor increased by his coughing or sneezing, together with the absolute impossibility of feeling the testicle at the bottom of the scrotum, wifl always, to an intelligent person, prove the disease to be a hydrocele." The transparency of a hydro- cele is also another criterion. Mr. Pott, however, allows that there are some exceptions, in which the testicle cannot be felt at the bottom of the scrotum, in cases of hernia. "In recent herniffi, while the sac is thin, has not been long or very much distended, and the scrotum still preserves a regularity of figure, the testicle may almost always be easily felt at the inferior and posterior part of the tumor. But, in old rup- tures, which have been long down, in which the quantity of contents is large, the sac considerably thickened, and the scrotum of an irregular figure, the testicle frequently cannot be felt, neither is it in general easily felt in the congenital liernia for obvious reasons." On one point, Sir Astley Cooper differs from Mr. Pott. " The hydrocele (he observes) in- volves the sjiermaiic cord and testis, so as to render them with difficulty distinguished by the touch; whilst, in hernia, they may in general be readily felt behind the tumor." The discrepancy may be reconciled by supposing that one of these eminent surgeons is speaking of a hydrocele of great size, which obscures the cord, and that the other is alluding to the disease in a less advanced stage. Sir Astley Cooper has seen cases of hydro- cele, "in which there was unusual difficulty in deciding upon the nature of the complaint. When It becomes so large as to extend upwards through the abdominal ring to the abdomen, the form of the tumor is precisely the same as that of hernia; and it even dilates when the patient coughs, owing to the sudden pressure upon that part of it which lies above the ring. The transparency, the fluctuating feel, and the observed progress of the swelling from below upwards, are then the only distinguishing marks. "A tumor sometimes appears in the Bcrotum, which descends in the erect posture, returns when the body is recumbent, distends upon coughing, fluctuates, and is transparent. This disease is a collection of water, which runs backwards and forwards, between the cavity of the abdomen and that of the tunica vaginalis, owing to the opening ft this membranous sheath never having been Closed. When this disease is complicated with ascites, the part becomes distended to an enormous sue It la readily distinguished from a hernia by 'transparency and fluctuation." (See ^, Cooper, HERNIA. On Hernia, part i. p. 16, ed, 2.) [To this condi- tion the term congenital hydrocele is usually au- plied.] ■' ^ Hydrocele of the spermatic cord is another case still more likely to be mistaken for a hernia than the common form of hydrocele. (See Hydrocele.) When situated entirely below the ring, its want of connection with the abdomen makes it readily dis- tinguishable from a hernia; but when it passes within the ring to the abdomen, some difficulty occurs in understanding its nature. If there is no transparenc}', and the fluctuation is indistinct, the surgeon should be very cautious in operating on such a tumor. Sir Astley Cooper was requested to see a boy who had a tumor extending from the upper part of the scrotum through the abdominal ring, along the cord to the abdomen; but it did not project sufficiently to enable Sir Astley to judge whether there was either fluctuation or transparency. However, as the tumor interfered with the boy's pursuits, he cut down upon it with extreme caution. When he had reached the surface of the cyst, he found the spermatic vessels running upon it, and was obliged to open the lateral portion of the cyst to avoid them. This sac contained a piece of small intestine, everywhere adherent to .its inner surface, so as to have prevented reduction. The _ vas deferens was felt behind the sac. The hernia had therefore insinuated itself between the spermatic blood-vessels and the vas deferens. (See A. Cooper, On Hernia, ed. by C. Aston Key, part i. p. 61.) Dr. J. B. Davidge, late professor of anatomy in the University of Maryland, had frequently been consulted by persons who had been wearing trusses for years, while their disease was merely hydrocele of the cord; and, in one case, the sac had been burst by the violent efforts made to reduce it. Dr. Reese, of New York, has also known this mistake committed in several instances. In another, a surgeon, deceived by such a hydrocele happening to be attended with long and obstinate constipa- tion, nausea, vomiting, hiccough, abdominal dis- tension, pain in the tumor, &c. dissected down to what he supposed to be the hernial sac, and divided the tendon of the external oblique, when the hj'drocele gave way and its contents were dis- charged. (Amei; ed. of this Did.) It seems ex- traordinary that the surgeon in this case should have divided the abdominal ring before he had opened the sac, or ascertained the situation of the stricture, so as to know whether the tendon of the external oblique required to be cut or not. Tlie operation of opening the cyst of the hydro- cele, though performed unawares, was only a com- mon method of cure, and, in fact, ended in it. The manner of proceeding I am unable to account for, unless it was intended to try Petit's plan of cutting the stricture and reducing the hernia with- out opening the peritoneal sac at all. In hernia hiimoralis, the pain in the testicle, its enlargement, the hardened state of the epidi- dymis, and the generally preceding gonorrhcea, are circumstances fully elucidating the diagnosis. The observation of Pott, that, in inflaniniation of the testicle, the spermatic cord is exempt from all unnatural fulness, is not correct. I have known it enormousl}'' swollen and accompanied by obstinate constipation and vomiting; indeed, the swelling, when the case arises from gonorrhoea, mostly com-