^^'^ PRACTURK as to reach to the edge of the patelln, is to be dipped in warm water, and applied under the l^noe, and confined by a roller. When this is dry, it has exactly adapted itself to the form of the jnint, and this form it afterwards retains, so as best to confine the bones. Splints of wood or tin may be used on each side of the joint ; but they are" apt to make uneasy pressure. In five weeks, passive motion of the limb may be gently begun, to prevent ankylosis." {Surgical Essays, part ii. p. J 01 ; also Treatise, p. 221.) [M. Malgaigne prefers a slightly flexed position of the knee, as less likely to be followed by the arti- cular rigidity, which is especially to be feared as the result of these fractures. The tendency to adduction or abduction of the knee must be guarded against if necessarj-, by the employment of straight lateral splints. Sometimes there is a fracture in an oblique or vertical direction, separating the condyles from each other, and communicating above with a trans- verse fracture of the lower end of the shaft of the femur. When this is the case there is greater mobility than in the fracture last described, and sometimes shortening of the limb from the descent of the shaft of the femur in front of the condyles. The fracture above the condyles has usually an oblique direction downwards and forwards, which Jayors this species of displacement. The vertical fracture may separate the condyles into equal or unequal portions. Mr. Erichsen mentions a case in which the condyles oiboth femora were splintered into a number of fragments, amongst which the shafts were impacied. Excellent union, however, took place, the skin having been uninjured. (Science and Art of Surg. ed. 3, p. 249.) The treatment should be conducted on the same principle as in the oblique fracture of a single con- dyle, excepting that some degree of extension may be necessary to correct the overlapping of the fragments. If this tendency to' shortening should be very great, permanent extension with the long splint may be employed, and when the inflamma- tory swelling has subsided, the broken condyles may be steadied and maintained in contact with each other by a circular bandage round the knee. Fractures of this description wlien compound will, in the majority of cases, call for amputation C!:_ A /-I t. .. „ . , .1 J 9 v..ij.iyn. Sir A. Cooper, however, mentions the case of a boy under the care of Mr. Travers, in St. Thomas's Hospital, in which the external condyle, which protruded, was, after a time, removed, and the patient recovered so favorably that five months after the accident he had free use of the joint, and was able to walk without any support. (0« Dis- localions, S(c. ed. by B. Cooper, p. 241.)] Fractures of the Patella May be produced either by external violence, or by the action of the extensor muscles. They may be either transverse or longitudinal in their di- rection.—When the patella is broken longitudi- nally the cause is always outward violence ; but when the fracture is transverse, tiiough it also may originate from a blow or fall on the part, it is in all common cases, the result of the violent action of the extensor muscles of the leg. In the latter case, which ia by far the most common, the fall is subsequent to the fracture, and, as Camper has remarked, it is mostly only an effect of it. For instance, the line of gravity of the body is, bv some cause or another, inclined backward • the muscles in front contract to bring it forward again • the extensors act on the patella ; this breaks' and the fall ensues. That it is the action of the muscles, and not the fall, which usually breaks the knee-pan, is well ascertained. Sometimes the fracture occurs, though the patient completely suc- ceeds in preventing himself from falling backward as we find exemplified in two cases reported by Sir A. Cooper. {Surgical Essays, part ii. p. 85.) A soldier broke the patella in endeavouring to kick his Serjeant ; the olecranon has been broken in throwing a stone. In the operating theatre of the Hotel-Dieu, both the knee-pans of a patient were broken by the violent spasms of the muscles which followed an operation for the stone. It is only of late years, however, that the true mode, in which the bone is usually broken, has been under- stood. For the production of a transverse fracture of the knee-pan, the extensor muscles of the leg need not act with a convulsive force, their ordinary action being strong enough to produce the effect in question, when the body is inclined backward, and the patient is in danger of billing upon his occiput. In this state, the thigh being bent, the extensor muscles of the leg contract powerfully, in order to bring the body forwards, and prevent the fall backwards ; and the patella, whose poste- rior surface then rests only by a point against the fore part of the cond}'les of the femur, is placed between the resistance of the ligament binding it to the tibia, and the action of the extensor muscles. A fracture now happens the more easilj', because, by the flexion of the knee, the line of the extensor muscles, and that of the ligament of the patella^ are rendered oblique, with respect to the vertical axis of this bone, which is bent backwards at the point where it rests upon the condyles. (See Boyer, Mai. C'hir. t. iu.-p. 322: C.Bell's Operative Sur- gery, vol. ii. p. 201, 8vo. Lond. 1809 ; A. Coopers Surgical Essays, part ii. p. 86.) By violent spas- modic action of the extensor muscles, however, the patella may be broken transversely, while the limb is perfectly straight. The force of the muscles occasionally ruptures the common tendon of the extensor muscles, or what is more frequent, the ligament of the patella. Of these cases, Petit, Desanlt, and Sabatier, met with examples. [C'helius mentions five cases in which rupture of this ligament took place. See Trans/, by South, vol. i. p. 580.] In transverse fractures, there is a considerable separation between the two fragments of the bone, very perceptible to the finger, when the hand is placed on the knee. This separation is not occa- sioned equally by both portions; the upper one, embraced by the extensor muscles, is drawn up- ward very forcibly by them, the patella no longer resisting, while the inferior portion, being merely connected with the ligament below, is not moved by any muscle, and can only be displaced by the motions of the leg, to which it is attached. Hence, the separation is least when the limb is extended, b'.'ing then only produced by the upper fragment; greatest, when the limb is bent, because both pieces contribute to it; and it may be increased or dimi- nished, by bending the knee more or less. [M. Malgaigne has shown that tlie separation is not, after a time, occasioned solely by tiic ascent of the upper fragment, but that it depends partly upon the descent of the lower portion, in conse-