425 CATARACT. Lastlj', as Beer remarks, although patients who, before the origin of their cataracts, were neither far nor short-sighted are sensible of the important benefit of an operation, inasmuch as they nov/ plainly discern all objects again, yet they are usually obliged to employ spectacles in reading, writing, or doing any kind of fine work. The re- ".crse of the above conditions may be regarded as unfavourable to the success of the operation. In almost every case of congenital cataract in a child, under eight years of age, where the ca- pacity to distinguish the different degrees of light is possessed, and where the eye is, in other respects, healthy and perfectly formed, the prognosis, with reference to the probable result of an operation, will be favourable. {Richard Middlemore, On Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 68.) The result of the operation may be more or less unfavourable:—1. When the patient is affected with gutta, or acne rosacea, not the effect of hard drinking, but rather of scurvy. 2. When evident traces of some general disease of the constitution are present. 3. When the patient has been ill, and is only yet convalescent. 4. When any other disease, though not constitutional, is present. 5. When the cataract is adherent for a considerable extent to the uvea, or an incurable, though not very severe chronic inflammatory affection of the eyelids, or eyeball, prevails, as, for instance, an habitual inflammation of the Meibomian glands ; ectropium of the lower eyelid ; the remains of a pannus ; or a strong aversion to light. Lastly, every operation must fail when the cataract is manifestly joined with complete amau- rosis, a dissolution of the vitreous humour, dropsy, or atrophy of the eye, glaucoma, or a general vari- cose affection of the blood-vessels of the eye. The capacity of distinguishing light from dark- ness, and, in a shady place, where the pupil is not to» much contracted, of perceiving bright colours and the shadows of objects, is a very important desideratum in every case selected for operation. The power of distinguishing light from darkness is even more satisfactory than motion of the iris. I have met with several cases of complete gutta Serena in both eyes, in which there was the freest contraction and dilatation of the pupils. Had suoh patients been also afflicted with cataract (a com- plication by no means unfrequent), and a surgeon, induced by the moveable state of the iris, had undertaken an operation, it must of course have proved unavailing, since the rays of light could only have been transmitted to an insensible retina. Hence, motion of the iris is not an infallible cri- terion, as authors have stated (IKa^/ic?;), that the retina is endued with sensibility. Mr. Lucas at- tended, in conjunction with Hey and Jones, five children of a clergyman at Leaven, near Beverley, who were all born blind. He writes, " None of them can distinguish light from darkness ; and although the pupil is, in common, neither too much dilated nor contracted, and has motions, yet these do not seem to depend upon the usual causes, but are irregular." {Med. Obs. and Imj. vol. vi.) Tlie reciprocal sympathy between the two or- gans of sight is so active, that no one solicitous to acquire either physiological or pathological knowledge respecting them, ought for a moment to forget it. Ilence, in the examination of cata- racts, it is of the highest importnnce to keep one eye entirely secluded from the light, wliile the surgeon is investigating the state of the iris in the other ; for the impression of the rays of light upon one eye, sensible to this stimulus, is known to be often sufficient to produce corresponding motions of the iris in the opposite one, although in the state of perfect fimaurosis. It is now well established that the action of the iris is not exclusively sym- pathetic with the impression of light upon the retina of the eye to which it belongs. The action of the iris may depend, indeed, first, upon the direct agency of light upon its irritable and con- tractile texture ; secondlj', upon the stimulus of light upon the retina; or, thirdl}"-, upon a sympathy with the iris of the opposite eye. In investigating the state of the retina in several forms of disease, these three influences over the action of the iris should be remembered. {See Middle7nore, Ott Dis. of ike Eye, vol. ii. p. 70.) In other examples of cataract, the pupil may be quite motionless, and yet sight shall be restored after the performance of an operation. {Wenzel.) But although the power of distinguishing light from darkness is more satisfactory than motion of the iris, it is not an unequivocal test of the retina being perfectly free from disease. While amau- rosis is incomplete, the patient can yet distinguish light and the shadows of objects. Dilatation of the pupil is also a deceitful criterion of the com- plication of this disease with the cataract. When the cataract is large, or adherent to the iris, the pupil is flrequently much dilated, though the optic nerve may be natural and sound ; the pupil often continues quite imdilated in a perfect gutta serena. {Richtor.) From all this it must be manifest, 1st, That the irregularity and inconsistency of the symptoms of amaurosis, together with the possibility of particular states of the cataract rendering the patient utterly unconscious of the stimulus of light, make it neces- sary for the surgeon to be particularly attentive to the appearance and to the history of the origin and progress of the disease, in order to understand the real condition of certain cases. 2ndly, That, when the patient can distinguish light from darkness, though the iris may be motionless, there is good ground for trying an operation. Possibly, in this circumstance, an incipient amaurosis may exist • but the chance of the defect of the iris arisino- from' other causes, the cerhiinty ihni the opaque body must be removed from the axis of sight (even if the disease of the retina be cured) ere sight can be restored, and the improbahility that an operation to cure the cataract will render the other complaint at all less remediable, fully justify the attempt Frequently the patient has a fully formed cataract in one eye which presents the signs of amaurosis while an incipient cataract, or one as much ad' vanced exists in the other, which at present is free from these symptoms : in this case (says Mr Travers), the cataract of the latter should be re- moved without delay. {Synopsis, .(j-c. p. 314.) The concurrent testimony of almost all writers upon the subject tends to prove that the restoration of sight has sometimes been effected in the most hopeless cases ; and I am therefore of opinion with Mr. Lucas that in all doubtful cases an operation should bo tried as a remedy by no means violent or hazardous. {l\fcd. Obs. ami Inquiries, vol.vi, p. '2t>7.} I shall conclude this part of the subject with