vigilance is called for on tlie part of the surgeon: for the treatment, to be eifectual, should he em- ployed at the earliest period of the accession of the infiiunmatory symptoms. Calomel in repeated doses, combined with anti- mony, should also be administered, and the mis- tura cetacei, with opium, will be found an excellent medicine for appeasing the cough, which disturbs the fracture, and gives the patient infinite pain. [The patient should be kept perfectly quiet, with his head and shoulders raised, and should only take food of the mildest possible character.] Fractures op the Clavicle. This bone being long and slender, unsupported at its middle, and protected externally only by the integuments, is very often broken. Its serving to keep the scapula at a proper distance from the sternum, and as a point of sup- port for the OS brachii, every impulse of which it receives, fully accounts for the fact. The most "frequent cause is a fall on the point of the shoidder, or on the elbow or hand, when the arm is separated from the side. In fracture from this cause, the middle of the bone, where the curvature is greatest, is most fre- quently the situation of the injury. It is not very often fractured at its scapular, and still more rarely near its sternal extremitj'. When the fracturing force is applied to the ends of the bone, as in a fall on the point of the shoulder, or on the hands, while the arms are ex- tended, the clavicle may be bent, and fractured so obliquely, that the broken portions protrude through the skin. Less frequently, the fracture is caused by dn-ect violence, in which case the bone will be broken at the point on which the force immediately acts, and then the soft parts will be contused, or even lacerated. A comminuted fracture may be thus occasioned, and if the violence be very great, the axillary nerves may be injured. Mr. Earle mentions an instance, in which the axillary plexus of nerves was crushed by a comminuted fracture of the clavicle, and paralysis of the arm occasioned. (See Med. Chit: Trans, vol vii. p. 173.) 1 am not aware of any case in which the subclavian vessels have been wounded by the spicula of a broken clavicle. [M. Malgaigne, in 1844, met with two cases in which fracture of the clavicle was caused by violent muscular efforts. (See 'rraite des Frac- tures, ^c. t. i. p. 494.)] The symptoms differ, according as the fracture happens to be situated between the scapular end of the bone and the coraco-clavicular ligaments, or between the insertion of these ligaments, and its sternal extremity. In the first case, the two fragments being fixed by the ligamentous bands, which connect them on one side with tiic conicoid process, and on the other with the acromion, arc but little displaced ; and the arm may yet have in the clavicle a sufficient point of support for the ex- ecution of its motions. Still, on careful examina- tion, the outer end of the bone will bj perceived to be somewhat depressed, and to incline obliiiuely downwards and forwards, so as to form an angle with tlio rest of the bono ; but if the humerus and shoulder be pushed up, it will readily assume its proper direction. A crepitus is also generally distinguishable, when the surgeon applies his hand ruRE. ■ to the place of the fracture, and alternately raises and depresses the shoulder. [If the fracture have happened just opposite to the coracoid process, and between the attachments of the conoid and trapezoid portions of the coraco- clavicular ligament, the displacement may be'even less evident, since each side of the fracture will then be retained in position through its ligamentous connection with the coracoid process. Mr. R. W. Smith has described the anatomical appearances presented by eight specimens of old fracture near the acromial end of the clavicle in the museum of the Richmond Hospital, Dublin. In tliree of these in which the bone had been broken between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, the resulting deformity was very trifling, and limited to a slight increase in the natural curve of this part of the bone. In the other five, however, in which the fracture had been external to both portions of the ligament, the displacement was considerable, much greater, in fact, than the usual description of the symptoms of this acci- dent would lead us to expect. In all the five, tlie pieces had become joined together at a right angle or nearly so, the fractured end of the external having united with the anterior surface of the internal fragment. The clavicle in conse- quence had become permanently shortened, and the shoulder was drawn forwards and inwards, so that in one case in which a cast of the body had been taken, the measnrement between the sterno-clavi- cular articulation and the acromion, was found to be nearly an inch less than on the opposite side. In all the eight cases, there was abundant bony deposition on ihe under surface of the clavicle, and in one the conoid and trapezoid ligaments had be- come completely ossified, and the clavicle anky- losed with the coracoid process. (See Treatise on Fractures and Dislocations, p. 209.)] In the second and far more frequent case, or that in which the fracture is situated between the inser- tion of the coraco-chivicular ligaments and the sterno-clavicular articulation, the displacement is much more considerable ; and be it remembered, that the external portion of the clavicle is always that which is displaced. The internal part cannot be moved out of its natural situation, by reason of the costo-elavicular ligaments, and of its being drawn in opposite directions, by the sterno-cleido- mastoideus, and pectoralis major, muscles. The external portion, drawn down both by the weight of the arm, and the action of the deltoid muscle, and forward and inward by the pectoralis major, is carried under the internal portion, which projects over it. The broken clavicle no longer keeping the shoulder at a due distance from the sternuni, the arm falls forward towards the breast. [The elbow or forearm is usually supported by the op- posite hand, and the neck is bent towards the in- jured side, to relax the Btorno-mastoid and trapezius muscles.] The patient finds it impossible to put his hand to his forehead, because tliisact makes a semicircular motion of tlio humerus necessary, which cannot bo done while that bono has not a firm jioint of sup- port. [Abduction of the limb by separating and raising tlio elbow from the side, is also espcciallv painful and dilHcult, as it increases the displacement inwards of the outer portion of the fracture,] The shoulder and upper extremity may bo observed to be nearer the breast, than those of the opposite