GLAUCOMA of sight, and the eye will assume the characteristic appearance of chronic glaucoma. In eyes which have been operated upon for tins disease, the fundus, optic nerve, choroid, retina, c&c. sometimes become visible the third day alter the operation, and the retina is then frequently seen sprinkled with round and with large diffused blood spots ; the latter are more frequent near the equator of the eye. The optic nerve is more red and well defined, the retinal vessels are of proportionate diameter throughout ; sometimes the optic nerve has a more whitish' waxy appearance; in other cases the grey pink ring remains near its periphery : but in all cases tlie retinal vessels (in the nerve) lost their thin ill- defined shape and became gorged with blood. The round blood spots may remain for months, but the large diiiused ones frequently disappear in a few weeks. The optic nerve may assume its normal pink appearance, or become more or less cupped. -The youngest of the patients attacked by acute glaucoma, was a woman of 35 years of age, the oldest a man of 70. Occupation has no influence upon us occurrence. Thirteen of the patients were thin and pale, one stout and pale, and one in good health. Eleven of the fifteen had premoni- tory symptoms of two years' duration, while in others they were only noticed for a few weeks ; they consisted in occasional increased hardness of the eye, pains in the forehead and temple, attacks of dimness of sight (especially during mental ex- citement), and in the perception of a halo (rainbow) round the candle. A few were troubled with flashes of light in the eye. Most of the cases became presbyopic, and had to use convex glasses. In four the attack came on without any premoni- tory symptoms, and in these the anterior chamber was nearly of the normal size. A rapid in- crease of presbyopia, of pains in the temple and forehead, and shorter intervals between the attacks of dimness, preceded the acute attack in eight cases. Three of the cases were attacked in both eyes simultaneously. We are in the habit of examin- ing what the patient calls his sound eye, with a view of studying the prodroma of the disease. In most of the cases of acute and chronic glaucoma the other (sound) eye offers one or several of the symptoms mentioned above as premonitory. None of these eyes appeared to me to be ophthal moscopically healthy ; there was generally a marked loss of resistance to pressure at the optic nerve (i.e. the circulation was easily suspended) ; there were also increased redness of the nerve, with frequently the grey pink circle near its periphery', and some decrease of the amount of light observed in the vitreous space. An acute attack not unfrequently occurs in those suffering from chronic glaucoma. The acute glaucoma has been observed in eyes which were blind fi'om cerebral amaurosis ; in cases where the ins and choroid had suffered from svpliilis ; in eyes where vision had been destroyed" by chronic glaucoma ; and where an advanced stage of atrophy ot tlie optic nerve, choroid, &c. already existed. Uimnc c/laucoma, thirty-two cases. An eye affected with chronic glaucoma in its aavanced stage {i.e. vision reduced to mere por- ce ion of hglu), generally presents the following vessel, on ' '"^''K^d, tortuous, subconjunctival essefs emerge into view in the ciliary region ; the cornea n flat, and has more or less lost Its sensibility, as shown bv Von Graefe • its epithelium not unfrequently "peels off in flakes- the iris IS discoloured and almost in contact with the' cornea. The pupil is enlarged, irregular, and fixed- It appears greyish or greyish green. An ophthal- moscopic examination is possible almost in all cases though the pupil may appear very hazv, Ihe fundus appears red, and the optic nerve well defined and cupped. The retinal veins are gorged with blood up to the margin of the cup, where they either disappear entirely, or become thin and scarce while in the cup. Pulsation of the arteries in the cup exists either spontaneously or can be produced by gentle pressure on the eye. The ages of the thirty-two cases varied from 43 to 76 • tliey were, with some exceptions, weakly, pale' thin persons with feeble pulse : five had sufl-ered from severe rheumatic attacks; three from erysipelas of the head shortly before the premonitory symptoms set in; others attributed the cause of the disease to mental anxiety. With two or three exceptions all the patients had been using convex glasses for reading. The time when the first symptoms of the disease appeared, varied from fifteen j^ears to three months. They consisted of a halo round the candle occasional mist before the eyes, increase of pres- byopia, occasional pains in the temples ; in several cases the sight was lost without any pain or inflammatory symptoms : others had inflammatorf attacks and pain after the eye had been blind, and others shortly before it became blind. As the disease progresses tension of the eye gradually increases, the iris advances, the cornea becomes flat, the vessels which merge in the ciliary region enlarge, the pupil becomes irregular, then less moveable, and finally neither acts by itself nor in concert with the fellow- pupil ; its area becomes greyish or greenish. In fifteen out of the thirty-two cases both eyes were attacked, and in three to an equal extent; three of the' cases had repeated slight attacks of inflammation (sub-acute glaucoma), and several had chronic glaucoma in one eye, while the sound eye was seized by an acute attack, Changes of the retina and optic nerve in glau- coma. Visioti. In the beginning of acute and chronic glaucoma we observe a weakness of sight, which obliges the patient to wear convex glasses for near small objects, and an inability to recognise distant small objects; this is followed by occasional attacks of dimness: the patients, for instance, suddenly lose sight of an object, or it appears indistinct, and as if seen through a grey mist; they then notice a halo of different colours round the candle; at a later period they complain of not being able to see so many objects round them at once as formerlj', i.e. their field of vision becomes contracted. The attacks of pain generally appear at this period. The upper and lower parts of the retina lose, in most cases, their sensibility sooner than the outer and inner. The loss of vision advanced in a few cases from the temple towards the nose, without meet- ing with a misty portion intervening between the blind and sound part. The field of vision has often in an advanced stage somewhat the shape of a slit. It was frequently observed that when vision was reduced to perception of shadows, the inner portions of the retina retained their sensibility the longest. Flashes of light in the dark and with the eyes closed, were observed in one case, which, however.