1 Ligature of tliu Ulnar Artery at tlic Wrist.— Here tlie artery passes on the radial side of the pisiform bone, with tlie ulnar nerve on its inner or ulnar side, and a vein on each side of it. In this place an incision, two inciies long, is to be made through the skin, cellular tissue, and palmar fascia, one after the other. The artery having been thus exposed, an eye-probe is to be passed under it from without inwards. Below the middle of the fore-arm, the ulnar artery is superficial, and may easily be taken up by making an incision upon the radial side of the flexor carpi ulnaris, between the tendon of which muscle and that of the flexor subliniis digitoruin, the vessel is situated. The artery, however, will not be reached until a thin aponeurosis under the fascia of the fore-arm has been divided. The nerve is rather more under the tendon of the flexor carpi uliiaris than the artery. When the ulnar artery arises from the brachial above the elbow, it some- times pierces and runs above the fascia, and is easily taken up in any part of its course. For bringing into view the ulnar artery at the upper third of the fore-arm, the situation and breadth of the flexor carpi ulnaria muscle must first be ascertained. An incision is then to be made from above downwards, beginninn- two inches below the inner condyle of the humerus, and following the course of the inner margin of the above muscle to the extent of two inches and a half. The fascia is then to be divided ; and the flexor carpi idnaris drawn a little away from the flexor sublimis. In this opening, rather under the margin of the latter muscle, the ulnar artery will be felt with the finger, continuing its course over the flexor profundus. The ulnar nerve is situated on the ulnar side of the artery. Mr. Guthrie's opinions, respecting the propriety of dividing the muscles which conceal the upper third of the ulnar artery, have been noticed in the beginning of the present article. Ligature of the Anterior Tibial Artery on the Foot. —The anterior tibial artery becomes super- ficial about six inches above the ankle, from which point it descends between the tendon of the tibialis anticns and that of the extensor of the toes. It passes with these tendons under the annular liga- ment, and rather nearer to the internal malleolus than the external; thence inclining inwards, it penetrates between the first and second metatarsal bones to the sole of the foot, where it inosculates with the external plantar artery. The dorsal nerve of the foot is at its inner side; its corre- sponding veins lie on either side. It is covered Ist, By a thin fibro-cellular expansion, separating It from tlic adjoining tendons. 2ndly, By adipose cellular tissue. Srdly, By the fascia of the instep. 4thly, By the common integuments. On the instep, the first tendon of the extensor communis digitorum pedis, lies upon the outer side of the artery ; that of the extensor of the great toe upon its inner side. An incision, two inches and a half long, is made in the skin, in the direction of an oblique line from the middle of the instep to the first interosseous space. The skin, adipose substance, and fascia are to be divided ; the fihrn-celluhir aponeurosis' between the tendons of the first two toes, opened ■ and the artery tied, after being separated, by means of a director, from the accompanyinK nerve and veins. {K-lpeau.) ^ ARTERIES. 289 Ligature of the Anterior Tibial Artery in the Leg. — The two upper thirds of this artery lie close to the interosseous ligament; but lower down the artery advances towards the outer side of the spine of the tibia; consequently, the higher it is, the more deeply it is situated. The two veins' accompanying it inosculate across it by several small branches. The anterior tibial nerve crosses over it obliquely inwards and downwards, though sometimes it continues on its outer side down to the instep. The artery, veins, and nerve, are included in cellular tissue, which does not. how- ever, form a true sheath for them. Above, the artery lies between the tibialis anticus and the extensor communis ; in the middle of the leg, between the tibialis anticus and the extensor of the great toe; and still lower down, between the extensor of the great toe and the extensor communis. Ligature of the Anterior Tibial Artery in its Lower Tliird. — The skin, the subcutaneous fat, the cellular tissue, and the fascia, are to be divided in succession, to the extent of ab lut three inches, and in the direction of a line drawn from the mid point between the head of the fibula and spine of the tibia to the instep. Then, with a director or the fore-finger, the tendon of the extensor muscle of the great toe is to be separated from that of the tibialis anticus, pushing it outwards towards the extensor communis, if the operation be at the upper part of the lower third of the leg ; but in- wards, if the operation be done quite at the infe- rior extremity of the leg. Nothing, then, remains to be done, but to separate the artery from its ac- companying veins, and from the anterior tibial nerve which in this part of the limb is at its inner side, havnig crossed it from the outer in its descent (See iWa„ec, pi. xii. fig. 1 ; Velpeau, Nouv. Elhn <yf. t. 1.) Ligature of the Anterior Tibial Artery in its Middle or Two Upper 7%»-fis._Lisfranc makes an incision extending obliquely from below upwards from the spine of the tibia towards the fibula' Having cut transversely through the fascia the interspace between the tibialis anticus and the extensors is sought for. In the ordinary method an incision is made in the track of the artery, as determined by the line above specified, about an inch on the outside of the spine of the tibia. The skin and fascia are divided to the extent of three inches. The mus- cular interspace, at the bottimi of which the artery will be found close to tlie interosseous ligament is denoted by a yellowish line, and is more distinct at the lower part of the wound. In order to con vey the ligature round the artery, Velpeau passes a director under it veiy obliquely, fr„„, up- wards, and from the fibula towards the tibia Ligalare of the Posterior Tilnul yf ctery.—From Its or,,,,,, , below the popliumis muscle to Its division into the external and iiuerna plantar arteries the posterior tibial artery follows very precisely the direction of a line, with a slight convexity nuyards, from the mid.lle of ,h. up,,er part 0 the call to a point half an inch b i d the internal malleolus. Two veins usually „c company it, sometimes forming by th.ir -nvis" tomoses a cnniph^te network round it 1,1 tl,o •ij'per part of tlie leg, for the first two inches, tiio P'.s crior tibial nerve lies to the inner or tibial side ot tlic artery, and then passes over it to the outer