z 2 Onr indications in the treatment of blood dis eases are drawn from our knowledge of the laws of the animal economy in these respects, and of the causes which may have produced the dis- ease. When they depend on, or are associated witli an excess of blood, or of any of its constitu- ents, or npon general excessive molecular activity and vitality of this fluid, measures have to be adopted by which the morbid excess may be cor- rected. A low diet, or abstinence, by withdraw- ing the nutritive pabulum, is not only a most pow- erful means by which the quantity of the blnod inay be diminished, but leads to a rapid modifica- tion of the proportions of its constituent parts. Dilution with aqueous fluid has an analogous effect, and also promotes the elimination of effete parti cies resulting from excessive haematosis. The ab- straction of blood diminishes the pressure in the vessels and the force of the heart. All those me.isures rapidly lower the density of the blood remaining in the body by absorption from the tissues, impoverishing the fluid generally, and especially reducing the proportion of the red corpus- cles, although the proportion of fibrin frequently re- mains unaffected. They are indicated where there is increased molecular activity and increase of fibrin, or excess of albumen, and increased viscidity of blood. In diseases depending on malnutrition and excess of any particular principle derived from the blood, as those which consist of fatty accumula- tions, everything which has a tendency to aug- ment the principle in excess ought to be avoided; hence, in the instance mentioned, everything which augments the fatty matter, as rich food, hydrocar- bonaceous potations, or leads to imperfect respira- tion and cxydation of the hydrocarbonSj ought to be avoided. One of the simplest principles of treatment is to replenish the vessels with blood when it has been wasted by accident or disease (See Trans- Fusiox), or to restore any of its constituents that may be defective. For the latter purpose, direct injection of a saline fluid into the veins has been resorted to ; which, although hitherto almost always unsuccessful, involves an operation the surgeon may bo called on to perform. (S'-e Veins, Injection of.) Hunger and thirst are the natural sensations by which in health, and some- times in disease, or in some of its stages, the di- minution or exhaustion of some of the constituents of the blood is manifested, and in surgical practice it is most essential to regard the requirements of the patient thus indicated. A proper system of diet for the maintenance of a sufficient quantity of perfectly well constituted blood, and to restore any of its elements or principles thut may have become exhausted, is of the greatest importance, and some- times the oidy necessary general treatment. Tlio formation of red corpuscles is promoted by a full animal diet and exposure to air and light, and in the most marked degree, by the use of iron and of cod liver oil. The demand foraqiieous, albuminous, saccharine, or oleaginous principles, has to bo re- garded in reference to the nutrition of the mucous, ^ muscular, and nervous tissues, and the supply of fat, in anaimia, atrophy, debility, and other dis- j cases. Any deficiency of the saline, earthy, or mineral constituents has to be restored, as chloride of sodium, eartliy phosphates or sulphates and iron. Some of these are supplied more readily by ani- mal, some by vegetable food, and others in solu- BLOOD, PATHOLOGY OF. 339 tion in vvater, and other beverages. Thus, accord- ing to Liebig, wheat flour is deficient in lime, and a defect in the formation of bones, from want of this earth, may be remedied by the use of lime wa- ter, or leguminous plants ; or a deficiency of phos- phate of lime by milk, or of sulphur by eggs By the restoration of particular elements or compounds, we may e.xcite molecular changes and the produc- tion of more complicated constituents, as where iron produces an increase of colouring matter and red corpuscles. So also many medicines are employed as restoratives. Where we have reason to believe that the blood is alkaline, owing to a defi- ciency of acids, as in some fevers, we give acids ; where an acidity of the secretions indicates a de- ficiency of alkalies; these remedies are administered, md if particular cases of scurvy can be shown to depend on a deficiency of the salts of potassa, as stated by Dr. Garrod, those salts would be admin- istered for the cure of the disease. None of these restoratives, however, can prove efficient, unless the vital powers of the fluid are sustained ; and where deficient oxj'genation is concerned in an unhealthy and impoverished state of the blood, the excitement of the respiratory functions with an ample supply of pure air is indicated. A very large proportion of the medicines em- ployed in surgery are taken into the blood, and either act upon this fluid, or are conveyed by it to produce their eftects on different parts of the eco- nomy. Being in the blood, they have "local access" to all the organs. These medicines, or their active principles, are dissolved either by the vvater, as most saline substances, or by the acid of the stomach, as the carbonates and oxides of me- tals, and other mineral substances soluble in acids or by the alkalies of the bile and pancreatic juice as oils and resins, and probably sulphur and iodine, or by the pepsic principle, as albuminous substances ; and are absorbed, in most instances, with very little change. As respects many of these medicines, the blood acts as a vehicle by which they are conveyed to particular tissues and parts of the body, as the nerves, glands, or muscu- lar fibres. Of these a large class are appropriately designated eliminatives. They pass out of the blood, through the glands, at the same time ex- citing the natural functions of these organs. They not only increase the secretion of a gland but they tend to depurate the blood by the elimina- tion of foreign materials. They are employed both for the purpose of promoting or recovering the functions of a gland, as when cathartics are given in constipation, or diuretics in suppression of mine ; and to eliminate a poison or morbid ma- terial, and thus resolve a blood disease, as mercurv m syplnlis, colchicum in gout, and cathartics in some skin diseases. They are employed also to dimni,.,h excessive action of one gln.ul by the in- creased action ol another, as when diaphoretics are given to counteract congestion of the kidneys or as antiphlogistics to drain away and diminish the quantity of the proper materials of the blooci Ihrs ctlect la somewhat analogous to blood-lottinir" as where cathartics are used in inflammatory dis- orders, and for the purpose of purging the blood. there can be no doubt that certain substances taken into the blood destroy or iieutraliso foreicn aR'Mita, or counteract morbid processes in this fluid Neutral salts which net as solvents of fibrin nut