356 the clavicle, leaving the whole arm in a commi- nuted state, the same phenomena presented them- selves. The patient, on one occasion, immersed his arm in warm grains for some time, and, on re- moving it, the whole hand and forearm were co- vered with vesications." {Med. Chir. Transactions, vol. vii. p. 173.) So a burn which would produce only temporary inconvenience in a strong adult, may easily lead to death in old people or young children. Besides the age and general condition of a pa- tient, the extent and situation of the burn must be considered. A superficial burn, if very extensive, is more dangerous than a deep one of limited ex- tent. A hand or foot may be completely burnt off witli less constitutional disturbance than follows extensive erythema or vesication over a great part of the body. The effects of a local burn upon the general system will be better understood after an account of the appearances found on examining the bodies of those who have been killed either by the pri- mary or secondary effects of a burn.] According to Dupuytren, there are then four different periods or stages, in which the patient's life may be successively endangered in cases of se- vere burns: — 1. The stage of irritation, or, as I should say, the period of the first shock on the system. 2. The stage of inflammation. 3. The stage of suppuration. 4. The stage of exhaustion, or hectic. (See Clin. Chir. X. i. p. 438, 439.) The post mortem, examinations of burnt patients, instituted by Dupuytren, tend to prove that, when the sufferer perishes in the flames, or a few instants after having been extricated from them, traces of excessive congestion are observable in the digestive tube, although there has not been sufficient time for inflammation to commence. Not only does the mucous membrane exhibit bright red patches of greater or less size, not only is it gorged with blood, but the cavity of the intestines contains a certain quantity of this fluid, which h^s passed into it by exhalation. The brain is largely injected ■with blood, and the serosity in its ventricles of a reddish tint, which is likewise frequently noticed in the serous fluid of the pericardium, pleura, and peritoneum. The mucous secretion of the bronchi is also bloody, and their investing membrane, at various points, of a bright red colour, and streaked with highly injected capillary vessels. It seems, in such cases, as if the blood, suddenly driven from the skin, made an effort to escape through all the pores of internal surfaces. {Clin. Chir. 1.1. p. 440.) A boy, about fifteen years old, died in the North London Hospital in the winter of 1835-36, a few hours after the receipt of an extensive and deep burn. I took the opportunity of having the body carefully examined, in the expectation of finding the con- gestions of the mucous surfaces, and the bloody serosity in the ventricles of the brain, the chest, &c. specified by Dupuytren; but these effects were much less conspicuous than the observations of this distinguished surgeon led me and others to anticipate. According to Dupuytren, when patients die be- tween the tliird and eighth days after the accident, or in the second stage, in consequence of the violence of the inilaraniatory action, all the signs of gastro-enteritis will be found strongly marked. BURNS. and ordinarily accompanied by inflammatory af- fections of the brain and lungs. Lastly, if the patient has not sunk till a later period, or the stage of suppuration and exhaustion, the viscera, especially the intestines, are found much altered by the previous long-existing inflammation; the mucous coat is studded with patches of redness and |ulceration, and the mesenteric glands are generally enlarged. (Also Andral, Anat. Pathol. t, ii. p. 223.) In a child, three years old, who died in Novem- ber, 1836, under my care in the North London Hospital, about a month after her admission with several extensive burns of the fourth and fifth de- grees, the post inoiiem examination revealed in- flammation of the mucous membrane of the bowels in various places, and deposits of pus in the lungs. [More recently Mr. Curling has shown how fre- quently ulceration of the duodenum follows severe burns in young persons, and terminates fatally by perforating the gut, and thus producing perito- nitis. Knowing all this, it is easy to comprehend and explain the severe constitutional symptoms which follow extensive burns. The system receives a great shock, and the powers of the vascular and nervous systems are depressed. There are four periods of danger:—1, that of collapse; 2, that of reaction; 3, that of sympathetic fever and congestion; 4, that of exhaustive fever and sup- puration. 1. In the period of collapse the pulse is feeble, the extremities cold, and there is frequent shiver- ing. But little pain may be felt at first, and if there be no pain, there can hardly be a worse sign. Want of pain after any severe injury is always an ill omen. The patient is seen in a sort of apathetic stupor. He wants simply to be left undisturbed. His nervous susceptibility is sunk so low that pain cannot be perceived. If this insensibility be ac- companied by shivering, failing pulse, and duski- ness of the lips, the great probability is that the patient dies comatose without even rallying. 2. In a case rather less severe than the above, the first shock is followed by a sort of irregular reaction. There remains the state of general pros- tration ; but it is accompanied by a certain amount of excitement, quickened breathing, a jei-king pulse, and delirium. 3. In a more favourable case, or one in which the state of collapse and reaction have been passed over sarel}', there is a period of sympathetic fever during which the patient is in peril from the con- gestive affections of the groat cavities just de- scribed. 4. If all this be overcome there is the period of suppuration to dread, during which the patient may die of pyffimia, or from the exhausting effects of the profuse discharge. With these general ideas of what is to be ex- pected in cases of burns, no detailed account of the constitutional symptoms observed in the different varieties of burns can be needed by any one ac- quainted with the ordinary constitutional effects of local injuries. The Local and Constitutional Treatment OK BUHNS should be considered as applicable to each of the tliree classes of these injuries.