OG 2 seded other escharotic agents in the treiitment of carcinomatous atYcctions. I directed the attention of the profession to its properties, in a series of papers published several years back in the 18th and 19th volumes of the Medical Gazatle. It had been used extensively by llanke of Breslau, and by Canquoin of Paris. Canquoin suggested its admixture with wheaten flour, in different pro- portions. Thus, hia paste No. 1 is composed of one part of the chloride with two parts of flour ; No. 2 of one of the chloride with three of flour ; and No. 3 of equal parts of each. The powder is mixed with a few drops of spirits of wine, then set aside in order to attract sufiicient moisture to render it soft and plastic, To augment the sup- pleness of the paste, one part of chloride of- anti- mony is sometimes added. Instead of flour, powdered gum or gluten may be employed ; the addition of a portion of oxide of zinc is said to counteract deliquesence. In order to fulfil the same indication, I have been in the habit of sub- stituting a portion of anhydrous gypsum. This, while it can exercise no chemical action upon the chloride, forms a porous medium, throilgh which the particles of the liquescent chloride may transude upon the morbid surface, with the eft'ect of decomposing or destroying it with certainty, to any definite depth. When the integuments are sound, the cuticle may be removed by means of a blister, and on the following day, one or other of the above prepara tions, corresponding to the thickness of the tissue to be destroyed, is to be applied to the cutis of the diseased part. Nitric acid will answer the same purpose; but I have generally employed, on account of convenience, caustic ammonia or hydrate of soda. The depth to which the phagedsenic paste will corrode the morbid texture, can always be esti- mated before hand ; its action is unfailing, and the eschar is separated, in most cases, from the eighth to the twelfth day, coming away quite entire in the form of a whitish-grey mushroom-like sub stance, and leaving behind a singularly healthy sore, which heals with great rapidity. Unlike hydrate of potash, it does not occasion sanguine- ous exudation, but seems rather to act as a styptic, and stanch bleeding'by coagulating the albuminous element. To insure its operation in depth, pro- gressive incisions may be made through the eschar, and the paste spread on strips of calico, or cotton wool, daily introduced, until it has pervaded the disease in its entire thickness. {Sec Report of Sur- gical Staff of Middlesex Hospital, 1857.) In numerous instances, where I have employed it very largely, I have very rarely known it productive of constitutional disturbance. The pulse remains natural, and the skin cool ; yet it acts as a power- ful topical stimulant, causing swelling, redness, and pain. The last is of a violent burning character, persisting with great intensity for the first eight or nine hours ; after that time, and when the surface is fairly eroded, it becomes supportable, as the patients express it, and continues so during the remainder of the application of the remedy. An important point is, that the pain is in a great measure under the control of opium, a full dose of this drug, previously administered, seldom failing to give great relief. From considerable experience in its use, I am disposed to conclude that it is chiefly useful in CAUSTICS. 461 those so-called semi-malignant tubercles and ulcers, which,make their appearance about the face of persons advanced in life, where the skin is in- volved, but without any depth of new structure ; in the circumscribed tubercle of the cicatrix following the operations for cancer ; in superficial epithelial growths of small compass ; in a form of lupus which I have described {Med. Gazette, vol. xix. 328), as the erosive ulcer of the follicles of the skin, and in nsevus. In true carcinoma, aflfecting glandular and fleshy parts, it will effect meliora- tion, provided the disease is circumscribed, the patient's health good, and there is no morbid change in the neighbouring glands. From the report of the surgeons of the Mid- dlesex Hospital, already alluded to, it would ap- pear that the plan of repeatedly introducing the caustic by means of progressive incisions into the eschar was adapted to primary cancers with or with- out disease of glands ; to some cancers which were both ulcerated and adherent ; to some which had recurred after operation ; and to some in which relief could be afforded to the patient, although the whole disease could not be removed (p. 28). In cancer of the male breast, M. Velpeau is in- clined to believe that extirpation by caustics affords a better chance of success than in that of the fe- male. {On Diseases of iJie Breast, p. 604.) Sulphate of zinc has been recommended by Professor Simpson in the treatment of cancerous affections. It is inferior in point of energy to the chloride of the same metal. I have known, how- ever, an instance of noli me tangere in which it effected a cure, v^'here other escharotics had failed. It was applied in the form of ointment, incorpo- rated with half its weight of stiff' cerate. The - eschar separates in four or five days. The salt is used in the anhydrous state, finely levigated, or made into a paste by the addition of an eighth part of glj'cerine. It is said to be the basis of the nostrum of certain American cancer doctors of the present day. Chloride of antimony. This caustic, which is always employed in the liquid state, is endowed with great activity. It destroys the animal tissues at the instant of contact, provided they are stripped of epidermis, and gives rise to violent and abiding pain. The resulting eschar is white, soft, and more or less-thick in proportion as the chloride is decomposed by the afflux of liquid ; it separates in from ten to fifteen days. From the facility with which it penetrates the tissues, and from the fact of any excess being speedily deprived of action, this caustic has been recommended in the instanco of the bite of rabid animals, or venomous reptiles, as also in malignant pustule, and anthrax. It has been resorted to with advantage in the treatment of lupus {Iicrpes e.vedens). Sulphate of copper. This escharotic, although not essentially active, is capable of producing great pain. The eschar which it forms, is brown and hard, and slow of separating. It is employed for removing small warty growths, and for repressing (exuberant granulation on ulcerated surfaces. A strong solution has been found useful in obstinate sores of the fauces, and of the genital organs. Bichloride of mercury is but little resorted to as a caustic, on account of its being a virulent poison. Its action does not extend deeply. The resulting eschar is white and soft, and separates in about three days. It is employed in the foiin of