CONJUNCTIVITIS stimulating plan. Under the article Ophthalmia the reader will find the lowering constitutionai treatment fully detailed, and also a full descrip- tion and historical account of the contagious nature of certain forms of purulent Ophthalmia — Jld.J We may now briefly consider this disease when It occurs in infancy. The symptoms are very simi- lar to those I have described as occurring in adults- but as It is by no means uncommon in infancy, and It neglected may be most destructive to sight it is of great importance to recognise its leading symp- toms and understand the principle upon which it should he treated. This disease almost invariably shows Itself on the third day after birth ; both eyes are usually affected, though one often more severely than the other. The disease has been observed to exist a few hours after birth, and a week or more may elapse before the disease comes on. There are two symptoms that may be selected as a gauge ot the intensity of the disease as it occurs in infants- —the one is the condition of the lids ; the other' the colour and consistence of the discharge. If the lids are of a bright red colour and much swollen and if the discharge is yellow and thick and very abundant, it is a severe case, but only in the first stage, and the eye is as yet probably safe ; but if ttie lids appear of a bluish-red colour and rather Maccid, the disease has most probably seriously damaged the eye. There is often considerable diiliculty in examining the condition of sight in tliese little patients, on account of the swellino- of the lids, the smallness of the palpebral aperture and the amount and thickness of the discharge' On separating the lids, the space is immediately hlled with discharge ; this must be carefully wiped away, and the lids re-opened. This must be re- peated until no more discharge escapes, when the state of the cornea may be ascertained. The rapi- dity and destructive character of the disease are regulated by the nature of the morbid secretion that has been applied to the eyes, and also by the constitutional powers of the little sufferer. If the disease in its severe forms be allowed to pursue its course unchecked, the cornea gives way either by sloughing or by ulceration, but most frequently by the latter, the iris prolapses, and the globe becomes either atrophied or staphylomatous. In milder cases, ulcers form that leave dense central opacities that are often very detrimental to sight. A curious result of these cases, even where the cornea remains hright, is a small central white spot upon the inner surface of the aqueous capsule. The treatment of these cases is merely local ; it is very simple, and the result highly satisfactory. All that is required is the frequent application of some mild astringent or caustic lotion to the surface of the conjunctiva. At the Ophthalmic Hospital a solution of alum IS used, from five to ten grains to the ounce; but a we-jik solution of nitrate of silver answers equally well. The essential point is, that whatever is used 13 well applied to the surface of the membrane. A prolonged existence of catarrhal and purulent ophthalmia produces an alteration in the secreting siirtace of the conjunctiva, and as a consequence of aT Ti!'''^ '"^ danmge. to the cornea. Alter the severer symptoms of the primary disease brM r^^f ^"""y^ <=°""'-i is still ungut and clear, some sensation of grittiness is and^nT'l-''^' P''"^ti<="'''"-'y night approaches; and some thick secretion, though to a much smaller extent than before, of a puro-mucous character still glues the lids together, collects at the nner cantlm and sometimes smears the corneal surface If li s ate IS allowed to continue unchecked for some time, the conjunctiva, particularly of the Us acquires a velvety and raised appl-iranc The V 111 thus raised and enlarged, may become stUl further and somewhat irregularly developed, so as to resemble the granulations of an ulcer, in conse ''ranH°',",'""\.'''^'=''"'^'''''" '^^^'^-n termed granular lids," though it must be borne in mind that this change occurs in the villi and is entirely due to the hypertrophy of these little bodies. If the disease limited itself to this structure, it would be ot httle importance, but such is seldom the case ; by degrees the vessels in the ocular conjunc- tiva become enlarged, particularly those correspond- ing to the upper lid, and from thence they creep down over the surface of the cornea, gradually covering its upper half, and producing the appear- ance of a thin, delicately-organised false membrane overlaying the transparent tissue of the cornea' This is a slow but almost sure result of granular lids ; and whenever the one is found, the other may with certainty be prognosticated. This opacity may gradually increase both in its superficies and in its density until two-thirds of the cornea is covered more or less thickly. The vessels organis- ing this new product may all be traced as coursing down from above, except in very severe and pro- tracted cases, when the cornea appears as one uni- form mass of organised lymph. In all these extreme cases we find the original- disease has been contracted in tropical climates ; it is termed " vas- cular opacity of the cornea." A condition some- what resembling the above is occasionally found without any well-marked granular condition of the conjunctival surface. It occurs about the age of puberty, and results from a strumous condition of system. It may be distinguished from the form just described, by the fact that the vessels encroach upon the cornea from all sides, instead of from above only. They also appear to involve more deeply the corneal tissue, and not to be limited so entirely to Its surface ; and as a result of this, the resistant power of the cornea becomes diminished, and its convexity increased, and its refraction so much augmented, as seriously to interfere with vision, even after transparencj' is restored. The size shape, and colour of the villi in their enlarged state vary much, according to the severity of the primary disease, the treatment then adopted, and the con- stitution of the patient. They are sometimes large, loose, flabby, and pale ; at others, they are small,' round, red, and highly organised, aiid between these two e.xtremes there are many shades of difTer- ence, depending upon the time the disease may have existed, the state of the constitution, and the previous treatment. The causes of this curious change in the mucous surface may be traced to severity in the original disease, to insufficient local treatment or entire neglect, or very active consti- tutional measures, and to a diseased state of the digestive organs. Some of the most marked and obstinate forms of vascular opacity have orcurred in men who havi- served in the Indian army, where the original disease is probably due to atmospheric influence, and where we find that all diseases of mucous mem- branes are severe, intractable, and prone to lapse into this hypertrophied state, and so to continue for