the subject. It is not meant to assert, that tlie use of a single ligature is never followed by secondary liemorrhage; for this would be untrue. The acci- dent, I believe, will sometimes happen after this or any other mode, under certain circumstances, and in unfavourable subjects. A fact of tliis kind we find recorded, which happened in the practice of a truly eminent and experienced surgeon (see A. Bums, On Diseases of the Heart, p. 230); but, it appears to me, that, ca'teris jKiribus, a single small ligature, applied ivilh as little dislurbance and detachment of the artery as possible, will be more rarely followed by secondary hemorrhage, abscesses, sinuses, &c., than any other known method. Thus, in the several cases reported by Mr. Norman, the single ligature was never fol- lowed by any of those inconveniences which, he justly thinks, will be rarer after this practice than any other, " if the artery be not removed from its situation, or more detached, than the ligature separates it." (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. x. p. 123.) I have already insisted on the importance of tying a sound portion of the artery. Even a di- latation of it, unattended with calcareous or athero- matous depositions, is unfavourable to the success of the ligature. M. Lisfranc, in one instance of carotid aneurism, had only room for a ligature on a dilated portion of the common carotid, between the aneurism and the sternum: in a few days the artery gave way below the ligature, which had not quitted its place. (See Lisfranc, De I'Obliteration des Arleres, p. 65.) Before entering into the consideration of par- ticular aneurisms, I wish to mention a few other circumstances, worthy the attention of every prac- tical surgeon. The first is, the partial entrance of blood into the aneurisnial sac, after tlie artery has been tied at some distance from the tumor. This fact was first particularly pointed out, and its reasons explained, by Sir E. Home, who published three examples of its occurrence. (See Trans, for l/ie Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knoiuledge, vol. i. p. 173, and vol. ii. p. 239.) But I believe that it had never been considered witii due atten- tion, until Mr. Hodgson made it one of the sub jects of his reflections in his valuable treatise. " When an artery is tied close to an aneurismal sac, the ingress of blood into the latter is in most instances prevented; the coagulura which it con- tains is absorbed, and the membranes of which the sac is composed gradually contract, until its ca- vity is permanently obliterated. But when the artery is tied at a distance from the disease, the ingress of blood into the latter is not altogether prevented; for, the anastomosing branches, which open into the trunk below the seat of the ligature, convey a stream, which passes through the aneu- rism. The impulse of this current, however, is so trifling, that the enlargement of the sac not only ceases, but the deposition of coagiilum in it in- creases, in consequence of the languid state of the circulation. The coagulnm accunuilatos, until the cavity of the sac, and the mouth of the artery leading into it, are obliterated,"&c. (See Ilodyson, On the Diseases of Arteries, p. 2()C.) This fact, which is of great importance, both in a practical and pathological point of view, is proved (says this gentleman), 1st, by the occa- sional recurrence of pulsation in the tumor after the operation; 2ndly, by cases in which the cavitv ANEDllISM. 177 of the sac has been exposed, and hemorrhage has been the consequence; and, 3rdly, by dissection, in which it has been found, that the cavity of the aneurism, as well as that of the artery i'rom which it originated, was pervious, from the part which was obliterated by the direct operation of the ligature. For a detail of the facts rela- tive to this interesting point, the reader is re- ferred to Hodgson's valuable publication (p. 267, et seq.) Some very uncommon instances are recorded, in which the return or continuance of pulsation in the tumor is said to have prevented the cure; the aneurismal sac having begun to enlarge again. The two cases of this kind, however, which hap- pened in the practice of Pott and Guerin (Trans, of a Soc. for the Impr. of Med. and Chir. Know. vol. i. p. 172 ; and Jou7'n. de la Soc. de Sante No. 3. p. 197), cannot be well depended upon, as it may be doubted whether the artery was really tied. Some better established facts, relating to this part of the subject, have been very recently published. One is a case by Dr. Monteath, jun., of Glasgow, which is vei-y remarkable, as the disease, viz. a popliteal aneurism, occurred nine months after the lemoral artery had been unequivocally tied in the upper third of the thigh. On the 27th of February, 1819, this gentleman performed the operation, using a single ligature; the pulsation of the tumor in the ham instantly ceased ; and the wound healed by the first intention, except where the ligature was situated, which came away on the thirtieth dry. By this time the tumor was di- minished to one half of its original size, and, in two months more, only a hard knot was per- ceptible, in which no pulsation whatever could be felt. After the considerable lapse of time above specified, the patient informed Dr. Monteath, that the tumor had reappeared, being rather lam-er than a plum. The pulsation in it was distin°ct, though not so strong as in ordinary aneurism. As the size of the swelling, and strength of the pulsa- tion, increased gradually, a compress and bandage were applied, without confinement; but, as this treatment was ineft'ectual, the patient was after- wards kept in bed, bled, and put on a spare diet. A thick compress was placed over the tumor' and the limb was firmly bandaged from the toes' to the groin. A trial of this plan for three days not having produced any benefit, a tight tourniquet was applied over the tumor; but the pain was such in half an hour, that the instrument was (aken oft', from which moment no pulsation was felt. Next day the tumor not only did not throb but had a firm feel; and, the bandage being con- tinued, the cure was gradually completed Had the disease not yielded to these means, Dr Mon- teath meant to have tied the inguinal or eUernal il.ac artery, with the view of cutting olT the suppl v of blood to the sac, through the aiiastomosii,; p.";S-5li1r'f)' ""'""^ ""'""-^ The following cases were mentioned by Sir Astley Cooper:—A man underwent the operation for aneurism ; the femoral artery was tied • tlu. pulsation ceased ; and tlio patient in a little while was supposed to be cured of the aneurism, and discharged. Upon his return to labour, however a swelling arose in tiie liam, witliout pulsation' I he swelling subsided in consequence of rest; but afterwards, wliilc the man was at work, the a'well- N