BURNS. A A 2 effects may lead to disease and further displace- ment of the joint; and perhaps this had happened in the case to which I am referring. [The angular projection alluded to by Mr. Cooper as the cause of bunyons is situated at the junction of the metatarsal bone with the iirst phalanx of the great toe. The deformity appears to be occa- sioned by the gradual yielding of the theca belong- ing to the tendon of the extensor longus pollicis, which ought to bind it to the central line of the bones. The yielding of the theca takes place prin- cipally opposite the junction of the metatarsal bone and the first phalanx of the great toe, consequently the tendon is permitted to pass in a straight line to the extreme phalanx. The result is that the ex- tre.mities of the bones entering into the formation of the metatarso-phalangeal joint are made to form a considerable projection inwards. Pressure and fric- tion on this prominence is sooner or later followed by the formation of a bursa, which is subjected to continual attacks of inflammation from increased exertion, and becomes the source of extreme suffer- ing and annoyance to the patient. In addition to the ordinary treatment, I have found advantage derived from having the inner edge of the sole of the shoe made thicker than the outer, by which contrivance the weight of the body is thrown more on the outer edge of the foot. When the bunyon has frequently suppurated I have succeeded in obliterating the diseased bursa composing it by making a free crucial incision into it and dressing it in with lint. The inner surface of the bursa is thus made to granulate, and a cure of the bunyon is effected. The angular prominence remaining, how- ever, in the course of time another bursa will be formed, will inflame and constitute another bunyon. The displacement of the tendon of the extensor longus pollicis being the cause of the projection at the metatarso-phalangeal joint, upon which the bunyon is subsequently formed, renders it possible and even probable that the division of this tendon might be attended with advantage.] BURNS. [In considering the injurious effects of heat upon the human body, it is quite unneces- sary to make any distinction between BrniNS and ScAXiis. There is no difference in the effect pro- duced upon any part of the body if anything heated to 212° Fah., for instance, be applied in a solid or a fluid form. The only difference is in the nature of the heated matter applied, the degree to which It has been heated, the duration of its application, and the sensibility of the burnt parts. Of course a solid or ignited body is capable of retaining a much higher degree of heat than a fluid, so that a iiURN with a red-hot iron is more likely to produce extensive injury tiian a Scald with hot water or oil But the effects which follow the application of heat in any form are not regulated by the me- dium through which it is conveyed. It will be well, therefore, in the present article, to set aside the distinction between Burns and ScAi.ns, and to include under the general term ]3urn,s all injuries which are the effect of heat, however applied, from simple redness of the skin to the most complete destruction of the solid tissues of the body.] Moderate, but long-continued, radiating heat thickens the cuticle, hardens the skin, blunts its sensibility, and renders it more or less brown. Ihese effects are exemplified in persons habitual!v exposed to the burning rays of the sun, or whose 355 usual occupations are before vast fires. Thus, as Dupiiytren observes, smiths are able to grasp with their rough horny hands pieces of iron of a very high temperature, and even to touch them for a few seconds with impunity. A higher degree of radiating heat produces mar- bled discolorations in the skin, and cracks in the cuticle, frequently leading to troublesome ulcer- ations. Such effects are common on the skins of old persons, who are constantly sitting close to the fire. In a still greater intensity, radiating heat will blister the surface of the body, or cause the form- ation of vesicles. In hot climates, exposure to the solar rays during sleep is alleged sometimes to have excited inflammation, followed by gangrene, and death on the fourth or fifth day. (See Dii- puylrcn, Clin. Chir. t. i. p. 419.) Cajteris pari- bus, a burn is less deep when it takes place on parts habitually exposed to the air, than when it occurs on parts always covered with clothes, and whose cuticle is very thin. (lb. p. 420— 422.) ^ ^ [Bums have been classified by various authors into several kinds or degrees. The following is the classification of Dupuytren] : — 1. Erythema, or superficial phlogosis of the skin, without ve- sicles. 2. Inflammation of the skin, with detach- ment of the cuticle, and the formation of vesicles filled with serosity. 3. Destruction of a part of the corpus papillare, and rete mucosum. 4. Dis- organisation of the cutis completely down to the subcutaneous cellular tissue. 5. Conversion of all the superficial textures and the muscles into eschars to within a variable distance from the bones 6 Carbonisation of the whole thickness of the burnt part. [The most convenient and practical arrangement of Burns, however, is to divide them into three classes: — ! Those which produce mere red- ness or inflammation of the skin. 2 Those which produce vesication. And 3. Those which completely disorganise and destroy more or less of the integument and more deeply seated struc- tures. It must be borne in mind that very different effects are produced upon the human body by the same degree of heat and by the same apparent amount of injury under varying circumstances of general health and bodily vigour. A strong coun- try servant girl may be extensively burned, and suffer comparatively little to her delicate mistress just recovering from a confinement, but whose burn has been much less extensive or severe. The one may escape with a few scattered vesications, while the integuments of the other may be completed destroyed. This can only be explained L re- ferring to the phenomenon observed when any part of the body IS deprived of its supply of nervous power by operation or injury. Thus, in a caso where Mr. Larlc removed a large poAion of he ulnar nerve in a young wmn.n, l\u- the cure of nouralgia, the parts supplied by that nerve - the ittle hnger and one side of the ring fincer- C I long time after the operation were incapable of re s.stmg changes of temperature which did not In the least degree affect tlie rest of the hand. "Th.i, moderately hot water produced frequent vesications' anrl exposure to cold nir induced sIcniKhinir nf tl,n extremity of the finger, and loss of the nail T,^ another instance, where tho axillary plexus of nerves was crushed by a comminuted fracture of