the treatment of phlegmonous and. eiysipelatous in tlammation, antimony, especially the potassio-tar- trate, or tartarised antimony, is a valuable medicine. In this work, there is no occasion to notice the usefulness of tartarised antimony as an emetic. In inflammations of the brain and its membranes, the eye, the testicles, and the synovial tissues, sur- geons frequently prescribe it with great advan- tage to the patient. Rasori, an Italian physician, used to order it in very large doses, as a means of keeping down inflammation of important organs; and the success of this treatment, as compared with that resulting from the free employment of the lancet, excited a great deal of attention. The dis- turbance of the stomach, which was at first severe, afterwards generally subsided, and that organ seemed to bear the medicine well. In this coun- try, the tartarised antimony is sometimes employed in cases of dislocation, where the muscles make powerful resistance to the reduction : here it is prescribed in doses of half a grain, repeated every five or ten minutes, uutil a good deal of nausea is excited, or the patient actually vomits. In this state the patient becomes exceedingly faint, and the muscles no longer oppose the efforts of the surgeon to reduce the dislocated bone. [Now, how- ever, that we possess in chloroform so much more effectual an agent for producing muscular re- laxation, the use of antimony in dislocations is almost entirely superseded.] (See Di.slocation.) In doses of one sixth or one fourth of a grain, joined with calomel and opium, tartarised an- timony operates as a diaphoretic, and this combina- tion is useful in various cases of inflammation, which are within theprovinceof surgery. Tartarised antinion}', in the proportion of 3j. to 5j. of lard, makes what is called the anti- monial ointment, which, where it is desirable to keep up counter-irritation on the surface of the body, is rubbed upon the part in the quan- tity of about a drachm, and for a few minutes at a time. The effect is to bring out pustules, <md even ulceration, the degrees of which, and their influence on the complaint, are to deter- mine how often and long the antimouial frictions are to be continued. In some cases, these excite pustules and ulceration in distant parts ; a fact deserving to be particularly remembered. [The pulvis antimonii comp. (Ph. Loud.) and the patent preparation known as Dr.James's powder, are both composed, according to the analysis of Mr. Phillips, of antimoniate of antimony (antimonious acid) and phosphate of lime. Serious doubts have been entertained about the efficacy of both these pre^ parations, and according to Mr. Phillips, the high stateofoxidation of the antimony which they contain will fully account for their inactivity. (See Trund. of Lonil. Phariuacop. ltj.51, p. 270.)] Dr. Rlliot- son prescribed the pulvisautim. comp. in doses (if 100 grains, and it seemed to have no effect. In general, says Dr. A. T. Thomson, it displays no influence whatever on the system. Its occasional activity may he ascribed to tiie oxide being accidentally in the state of a.pmto.vidc. (See T/iO!nson\i Etcm. of Mat. Mk'L p. 92,3, ed. 2.) A like uncertainty has also been found to attend tlie use of Dr. .lanies's powdei'. (See Pcrcira's Mat. Med. ed. 3, vol. j. p. 6!}0.) licnce, when antimonials are indicated in surgery, for the purpose of promoting the secretions generally, and of the skin in particular, it is best to prescribe the potassio-tartratc ofantimonv, wliich ANTRUM. 24,5 is of known and uniform activity. This may be combined with calomel or opium, or both, according to the indications of the case ; or it may be given in aqueous solution, or in the form of vinum antira. potass, tart. (P. L.) A quarter of a grain of the salt is contained in each fluid drachm of the latter preparation. The precipitated sulphiu'et of antimony is only prescribed as an ingredient in the compound calo- mel pill. The muriate of antimony, termed butter of an- timony, from its consistence, is a powerfij caustic, more frequently employed by foreign than British surgeons, who, in consequence of its deliquescent character, consider it an inconvenient application, ANTRUM, Diseases of. The diseases to which the antrum, or maxillary sinus, is liable, com- mence either in its mucous lining, the bony lamina: of which it is composed, or the fangs of the teeth, which form projections at the lower part of it. Sometimes the mucous membrane inflames, and, becoming thickened, closes the natural opening by which the antrum communicates with the nasal fossae, and the consequence is an accumulation of mucus or limpid fluid in it. On other occasions a purulent fluid is secreted ; or a fluid is formed, which concretes into small masses, and has the characters of adipocire. The antrum may also be the seat of polypi, sarcomatous tumors of vari- ous descriptions, crictile tumors, or aneurism by anastomosis, and scirrhous swellings. Then its bony parietes may be softened, more or less ab- sorbed,_ or carious, or affected with necrosis or exostosis. (See Gensoul, Sur quclques Maladies Graves du Sinus Maxillaire, S^c. p. 2, 8vo. Paris, 1833.) Sometimes extraneous bodies, detached portions of bone, a bullet, and even insects, may lodge in the antrum, and cause, for many years, very afflicting pains. Collection op Mucus. In general, the disease, which is not very com- mon, takes place unpreceded by any causes which are at all manifest. It is alleged mostly to happen in young subjects : of three patients seen by Boyer, the eldest was not more than twenty. (Traitcdcs Mai. Chit: t. vi. p. 139.) Sir Benjamin Brodie has seen only two cases ; one patient was a lady, whose age is not specified ; the other, a boy. A collection of transparent fluid in the antrum is imdoubtedly a much rarer occurrence than one of pus. (See Brodie, in London Med. G'az. for Dec. 1034.) As Mr. Hunter has noticed, whether the obliteration of the outlet, leading to the nose be a cause or only an efl'ect of tlie disease is not easily determined ; but from some of the' symp. toms, there is great reason to suppose it an at- tendant. " If it be a cause, we may suppose that tiu! natural mucus of this cavity, nccunuilating n-ritates, and produces inflammation for its owi! exit, in the same manner as an obstruction to tiie passage of the tears through tlie ductus ad nasum produces an abscess of the lachrymal sac." (See Hunter's Naluval Hist, of the Tcclli, p. 174,cd3.) A most interesting example of the effects 'of tlie lodgement of mucus in the antrum, is tliat re- corded by Dubois: a boy, between seven and eight yonrs of ago, was oliservcd to have at the base of the ascending nasal process of tlie upper jaw-bone on the loft side, a small, very hard tumor, of the size of a nut. As it caused no pain, and did not increase R 3 '