810 penloua than primaiy haemorrhages, both on ac- orZU 'YJ^'''"'.' ^^akened state, and the condition of the arteries and surrounding textures, occasioned by the inflammation. In cases of pri- mary hffimorrhage, the artery may be readily distinguished, talten hold of, and tied ; and the ligature does not separate before the expiration of several daj^s, when the process of obliteration has been insured. But in secondary hamorrhages, circumstances are different. The tissues are re- tracted and converted into a compact mass, and the vessel, which can hardly be discerned, is easily cut through by the ligature, or at all events, the latter falls off before the obliteration has acquired adequate strength. Hence bleeding frequently comes on again in the course of a few hours. In cases of this description, Dupuytren observes, there IS no other resource but that of taking up the trunk of the artery at a greater or lesser distance trom the accidental opening in it. (See Clm. CMr. t. 11. p. 465.) _ Still later forms of secondary hemorrhage occur in gunshot wounds, complicated with hospital gan- grene, or bad compound fractures, which have been in the suppurative stage for weeks or months. In these last examples even small arteries may pour out at once, or by repetition, a quantity of blood sufficient to bring the debilitated patient quickly to the grave. The blood does not issue from one individual vessel, but from the whole surface of the wound as from a sponge, and is so thin as to resemble blood and water. Gunshot wounds, particularly those of the limbs, are frequently complicated with broken bones which are a principal source of danger. The bone are seldom fractured merely in one place, but almost always splintered into numerous irregular pieces, which the violence of the shock often se- parates from the rest of the bone, and forces into the surrounding soft parts. If to such mischief be added that which the soft textures experience from the direct action of the projectile itself, the laceration of muscles, tendons, fascia, nerves, and blood-vessels, there will be exemplified, as Baron Dupuytren justly remarks, a combination of every thing bad which a complicated fracture can be attended with. In no situation is the danger greater than in the leg and thigh ; in the former, on account of the thickness of the muscles and fascia ; in the latter, on account of the number and size of the bones. The immediate conse quence of the fracture, and the presence of splin- ters, is a violent inflammation, commencing in the broken part, and propagating itself to the whole limb. The textures, most seriously contused, are frequently seized with gangrene ; and after the sloughs have been detached, extensive portions of bone are left exposed. This is very often noticed in fractures of the leg. The suppuration becomes profuse ; the fragments of bone lie inundated in pus, and becoming denuded, lose their vitality; and the pus itself passes by long sinuses between the layers of muscles, and along the surface of the bone, to a vast distance. If a fragment of bone be near an artery, its pressure will sometimes cause ulceration of the vessel and a very late form 01 secondary haemorrhage. This danger is princi- pally observed in the leg and thigh. M. Pelletan t^ll f "''^^ '■"^^'^^^ bleeding from this cause 'ooK place as late as the seventieth day. (See Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 455.) GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Treatment op Gunshot Wounds, When the case is merely one of con?Msio» with- out wound, or disorganisation of textures, the sur- geon may sometimes keep the inflammation within due bounds. The cure may then be accomplished without any solution of continuity in the skin taking place. But more commonly, as Dupuytren observes, acute inflammation comes on, the "parts are rapidly seized with gangrene, and if the mis- chief be extensive, death is almost sure to follow. Textures, whose organisation has been too much injured by contusion, cannot bear inflammation. The mortification sometimes reaches further than first appearances enable us to foresee, and it is only now that the alarming nature of the case is mani- fest. As for wounds, whether they implicate only the soft parts, of the bones also, they are of a kind which in general must unavoidably suppurate ; but the prospect of cure will be greater in propor- tion as their depth is less, as they are free from foreign bodies, and the general condition of the patient is satisfactory. (See Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 451.) [The first point to decide upon when called to undertake the treatment of a gunshot wound of a limb, is to determine whether it be most advisable to amputate immediately or to defer it; to excise the broken portions of bone, reserving the limb, or to attempt the cure of the injury without operation.] When a bone, especiall}^ at a joint, is very much shattered ; when the fleshy parts, particularly the great blood-vessels and nerves, are lacerated; when the whole limb has suffered a violent concussion, and is cold and senseless, there is no hope of pre- serving it. In this case it is the surgeon's duty to amputate at once, and not to delay till inflamma- tion, fever, and mortification set in. But, besides this violent degree of injury, in which the propriety of amputation is obvious, several lower degrees occur, in which it is often a difiicult thing to decide whether the operation be necessary or not. Here the surgeon must look not only to the injury, but also to the patient's constitution, and even to ex- ternal circumstances, such as the possibility or im- possibility of procuring good accommodation, rest, attendance, and pure air. But it is impossible to determine the necessity of amputation by general rules. In every individual case the surgeon must consider maturely the particular circumstances be- fore he ventures to decide. The grounds against the operation are the privation of a limb, and fre- quent examples in which nature, aided bj' judi- cious surgery, repairs the most horrible wounds. The following are the reasons in favour of the operation. By it the patient gets rid of a dreadful contused wound, which threatens the greatest peril, and which is exchanged, as it were, for a simple incised one. In cases of gunshot wounds, the loss of the limb cannot be taken into the ac- count; for the surgeon onl}' undertakes the opera- tion where he designs to save the patient's life by that privation, and anticipates that the part itself cannot be preserved. Even if he should deprive the patient of a limb that perhaps might have been preserved, there is this atonement,—that he can furnish him with an artificial leg, which often serviceable than the limb would Should the proves far more have proved had it been preserved. operation be fixed on, it is to be immediately per- formed above the wound. {Riohter.)