250 ANTRUM. ulceration and sloughing in the cheek, and a pro- trusion of some of the tumor in this direction. The woman, who had suffered indescribable agony from the pressure of the tumor, as it continued to enlarge, was at length worn out by the discharge, irritation, and repeated bleedings from the disease. I remember a boy in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, many years ago, in whom a medullary tumor, begin- ing in the antrum, made its way through the orbitar plate of the frontal bone and cribiform plate of the ethmoid into the cranium. He was only coma- tose about forty-eight hours before he died, though the portion of the swelling projecting into the cranium, and causing a corresponding depression in the anterior lobes of the brain, was equal in size to a small orange. Mr. Abernethy published an account of a very singular disease of the antrum. The patient, who was thirty-four years of age when the account was written, perceived, when about ten years old, a small tumor on his left cheek, which gradually attained the size of a walnut, and then remained for some time stationary. About a year after- wards, the tumor having again enlarged, a caustic was applied to the integuments, so as to expose the bone. The actual cautery was next applied, and an opening thus made into the antrum. After the exfoliation, the antrum became filled with a fungus, which rose out upon the cheek, and could not be restrained by any applications. Part of the fungus also made its way into the mouth, through the socket of the second bicuspid tooth, the other teeth remaining natural. The disease continued in this state nine years, occasionally bleeding in an alarming way. When the patient was in his twentieth year, the whole fungus sloughed away during a fever, and never returned. After this, the sides of the aperture in the bone began to grow outwards, forming an exostosis, which rapidly attained a great magnitude. A small exostosis took place in the mouth, but be- came no larger than a horsebean. The exostosis of the maxillary bone was of an irregular figure, and projected from the whole circumference of the aperture a great way directly forward. Mr. Aber- nethy compared its appearance, when he was writing, with that of a large tea-cup fastened upon the face, the bottom of which may be supposed to communicate with the antrum. The diameter of the cup, formed by the circular edge of the bone, was three inches and a half ; the depth two inches and seven eighths. The general height of the sides of the exostosis, from the basis of the face, was two inches ; its walls were not thick, and ter- minated in a thin, cellular edge. The integuments, as they approached this edge, became thiimer, and they extended over it into the cavity. The exos- tosis now reached to the nose in front, and to the masseter muscle behind ; above it included the very ridge of the orbit, and below it grew from the edge cf the alveolar process. A line that would have separated the diseased from the sound bone would have included the orbit and nose, and indeed one half of the face. Mr, Abernethy saw no means of affording the man relief. {Trans, of a Hiicieli/ for the Improvenicnl of Med. and Chit: lOtowledi/e, vol. ii.) See also a case related by Harrison. (Neiv Lo7id. Med. Journ.\a\. i. p. 1.) In a case of fungus, which had distended the antrum, iiindered the tears from passing down into the nose, raised the lower part of the orliit, caused a protrusion of the eye, made two of the mola teeth fall out, and occasioned a carious opening in the front of the antrum, through which opening a piece of the fungus projected, Desault operated as follows :—The cheek was first detached from the OS maxillare, by dividing the internal membrane of the mouth at the place where it is reflected over this bone. Thus the outer surface of the bone was denuded of all the soft parts. A sharp perforating instrument was applied to the middle of this sur- face, and an opening made more forward than the one already existing. The plate of bone situated between the two apertures was removed with a little falciform knife, which, being directed from behind forward, made the division without diffi- culty. The opening thus obtained being insuffi- cient, Desault endeavoured to enlarge it below, by sacrificing the alveolar process. This he endea- voured to accomplish with the same instrument; but finding the resistance too great, he had recourse to a gouge and mallet. A considerable piece of the alveolar arch was thus detached, without any previous extraction of the corresponding teeth, three of which were removed by the same stroke. In this manner an opening was procm-ed in the ex- ternal and inferior part of the antrum, large enough to admit a walnut. Through this aperture a considerable part of the tumor was cut away with a knife curved sideways, and fixed in its handle. A most profuse hemorrhage took place, but Desault, unalarmed, held a compress in the antrum for a short time ; this being removed, the actual cautery was repeatedly applied to the rest of the fungus, and the cavity was filled with charpie dipped in powdered colophonj'. On the eighteenth daj'-, the swelling was evi- dently diminished, the eye less prominent, and the epiphora less visible. But, at this period, a por- tion of fungus made its appearance again. This was almost entirely destroyed by two applications of the actual cauterj'. It appeared again, how- ever, on the twenty-fifth day, and required a third and last recourse to the cautery. From this time the progress of the cure went on rapidlj'. Instead of fungous excrescences, healthy gi-anidations were now formed in the bottom of the sinus. The pa- rietes of the antrum gradually approaching each other, the large opening, made in the operation, was reduced to a small apertm-e, hardly capable of admitting a probe. Even this little opening closed in the fourth month, at which time no vestiges of the disease remained, except the loss of teeth, and a very obvious depression just where they were situated. (Oiuvrcs Cliir. dc Desaull, par Biclud, t. ii.; and Parisian Cliir. Journ. vols. i. and ii.) See other cases recorded by Acoluthus {Ad. Cur. Nattir.); Garengcot {Mem de V.-icad. de Chir. ; Dupuytren {DuUclins de la Facidte de Med.); Gensoul {Surquelqucs Mal.duSiniis Maxil. p. 9) ; Bdclard {Gensoul, op. cit. p. 11); Georgi [Gensoul, op. et loc. cit.) ; Vclpeau {lb. P- 1-1) ; Anderson {Glasgow Med. Jourji. vol. ii. p. 74) ; CanoUes {liecueil Periodique de la Soc. dc Med. t. ii. No. 9); Eichorn {Diss, dc Polppis in Antro Hiohmori, Goett. 1IU4); Saniifort {Museum Anat. vol ii. tab. 30) ; Leveilld (Pecucil da la Soc. S, c. t. i. p. 24) ; Weinhold ( Von den Kranhheilen dcr Geisohtsknocken, ip. 27, ito. Halle, Ifi 18.) In some of these examples, a cure is stated to have been accomplished; in others, the disease re- turned, and proved fatal. The question then