HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 1010 said generally to have commenced with a sudden attack of severe pain in the head and eyes, tight- ness about the forehead, want of sleep, loss of appetite, a quick pulse, and other febrile symp- toms; while the wound, which had been healthy and granulating, at once became tumid, dry, and painful, losing its florid colour, and assuming a dry and glossy coat. {^Eennen, On Military Surgery, p, 214, ed. 2.) In the hospitals at Bilboa, if the incipient stage was overlooked, the febrile symptoms very soon became aggravated; the skin around the sore assumed a highly florid colour, which shortly be- came darker, then bluish, and at last black, with a disposition to vesicate; while the rest of the limb betrayed a tendency to oedema. All these threat- ening appearances occurred within twenty-four hovtrs, and, at this period, also, the wound, ivhat- ever might have been its original shape, soon assumed the cirmlar form. The sore now acquired hard, prominent, ragged edges, giving it a cup-like ap peariince, Avith particular points of the lip of a dirty yellow hue, while the bottom of the cavity was lined with a flabby blackish slough. The gangrene still advancing, fresh sloughs were rapidly formed; the increasing cup-like cavity was filled up and overtopped by them, and the erysipelatous livor and vesication of the surrounding skin gained ground, while chains of inflamed lymphatics could be traced from the sores to the adjoining glands, there exciting inflammation and suppuration, which often furnished a new nidus for gangrene. The face of the sufferer assumed a ghastly, anxious appearance : his eyes became haggard, and deeply tinged with bile; his tongue covered with brownish, or blackish fur; his appetite entirely foiled; and his pulse was feeble and accelerated. In this stage, the weakness and irritability of the patient was such that the slightest change of pos tnre put him to torture, increased by his inability to steady the limb, which, if lifted from the bed, was seized with tremors and spasmodic twitches. {Hennen's Military Surgery, p. 216, 216, ed. 2.) Authors vary considerably in their descriptions of the state of the tongue. Dr. Hennen found i^ brownish, or blackish; Delpech whitish, or yel lowish. (.Precis Elementaire t i. p. 125); and Mr. Blackadder, covered with a white mucus. (P- 39). [The exemption of some wounds is inexplicable, though not more so than the exemption of any indi viduals from the effects of any other morbid poison A. MS. note to the Thesis of M. Aubry declares, that of two fingers wounded at the same time, by the same instrument, and with the wounds in con tact, the one was affected, the other not.] It is explained by Mr. Blackadder, that when the disease attacks a large recent wound, the whole surface of the injury is sometimes affected from th first; while, in other instances, the disorder com mences on or near the lips of the sore. When the patient is of an inflammatory diathesis, the sore is generally attacked with acute inflammation between the seventh and fourteenth days; and the slough is softer, and of a pulpy consistence matter, of a strong and peculiar odour, and of dirty brownish, grey colour, begins to ooze out at its edges, and becomes daily more copious. The inflammation gradually subsides; the slough be- comes loosened, 'and finally detached, leaving the subjacent muscles, bones, fasciee, or ligaments, com- pletely exposed. When the constitution is not prone to acute inflammation, the slough remains long ad- herent; the discharge is very copious, and bur- rows under the skin, which then mortifies. Some- times, after the detachment of a slough, florid granulations spring up, and, notwithstanding a light recurrence of the phagedenic ulceration, the parts heal up by the iilmost unassisted operation of nature. However, most commonly, after the muscles are exposed, they continue to be gradu- ally dissected; their connecting cellular membrane is completely destroyed, and they are left covered with an offensive, greasy-looking matter. According to Mr. Blackadder, when a muscle has been wounded, it swells sometimes to a great size, and quickly assumes the appearance of a large coagulum, being altogether deprived of irritabilitj-. When it has not been wounded, but has become inflamed, it generally assumes a pale colour, with an appearance as if distended with a fluid, and occasionally, before losing its vitality, acquires a very surprising bulk; but when no inflnmmation has supervened, the muscles become of a pale brick colour, waste away daily, and the patient loses all power in them. As the disease advances, the integuments are undermined and slough, and hasmorrhage from small vessels is a common occur- rence; but in a more advanced stage, some of the large vessels are apt to give way, and the bleeding from them frequently destroys the pa- tient. " When a stump is the site of the disease, and the patient is of a plethoric habit, or accustomed to live fieely, the symptoms soon begin to indicate the existence of an intense inflaramatorj'- action through its whole substance, the tumefaction, pain, and heat increase rapidl}', so that in a few days the stump shall have acquired more than twice its former size, being at the same time much indu- rated, and causing the most exdruciating pain, In this state the patient has, in some instances, become delirious, and has been cut off by an effusion taking place into some of the larger cavi- ties. It more commonly happens, however, that gangrene seizes upon the integuments and cellular substance ; large sloughs are thrown off; and some of the large blood-vessels giving way, the patient sinks under the effects of repeated hferaor- rhage. For it is commonlj' found that the usual modes of stopping hamorrhage from a stump are, in such cases, either inadmissible, or totally in- efScacious. " Sometimes the progress of the disease in a stump is more gradual, but in the end nearly as fatal. The inflammation is much less acute; there is comparatively but little tumefaction, and the pain is much less severe ; but the discharge is much more copious, and the cellular substance, connecting th.e integuments and muscles, is rapidly destroyed. Hnjmorrhage generally comes on later than in the preceding instance, but it is the most common cause of death." (Blackadder, On Phage- dama Gangrmnosa, p. 33— 39.) . It is observed by another writer that artery seems to be the texture which resists most power- fully the destructive action of hospital gangrene (Thomson's Lectures, p. 460), a remark q";Jf " variance with the statement of Delpech (/ ElhH. t i. p. 129); but intended to refer, as i conceive, to^ases in which the femoral, bmchml or some other large artery is seen for several aajs