Many modern surgeons have relinquished the use of all injections in the treatment of gonorrhoea, and manage the disease on common antiphlogistic principles. Mr. Howship states that when injec- tions are used, they are not unfrequently followed by a most distressing and permanent irritability of the bladder. (On Complaints affecting the Secretion and Excretion of the Urine, p. 268.) But the common objection to them is founded upon the suspicion that they increase the frequency of in- flamed testicle and stricture. Since Mr. Hunter's time many sm'geons have been in the habit of keeping the penis, in the in- cipient inflammatory stage of gonorrhoea, covered with linen, continually wet with the liquor plumbi diacetatis dilutus ; a practice which is certainly both rational and beneficial. Mr. Aberaethy, in his Lectures on Surgery, speaks in favour of this method. And some surgeons have seen great re lief derived from the use of a suspensor scroti, or double handkerchief, combined with rest and the elevation of the penis. A suspensory bandage is believed to lessen the chance of the testicles being attacked by inflammation. For the relief of the ardor urinse and irritable state of the bladder in gonorrhoea, opium, camphor, conium, and hyoscyamus, have been extensivelj' employed. Sir Benjamin Brodie informs me that when the disease is attended with chordee, the vinum colchici frequently has beneficial effects. In consequence of this information, I have sometimes prescribed the vinum colchici, and found it useful in relieving the strangury, ardor urina;, and irri- table state of the bladder. . In the treatment of gonorrhoea, the liquor po- tassa; is a favourite internal medicine with many practitioners, who begin with prescribing it, and continue its use until the inflammatory stage has subsided. However, according to Mr. Howship, its eiFects are uncertain, and sometimes it excites uneasiness and irritation about the neck of the bladder, and difficulty of voiding the urine. Hence, whenever he directs this medicine, it is in com- bination with some aperient, so that it may not remain long in the bowels. {On Complaints affecting the Secretion and Excretion of the Urine, p. 269.) When the glands of the urethraremain enlarged after all inflammation has subsided, mercurial ointment, or that of the iodide of potassium, may be rubbed on them. In many strong plethoric constitutions, the symptoms are violent, and there is a great ten- dency to inflammatory fever. In such instances, opiate clysters, though at first productive of re- lief, sometimes increase the fever, and consequently aggravate all the symptoms. In those cases the balsam of copaiba also sometimes increases the inflammatory symptoms. In a constitution of this kind, the treatment consists chiefly in evacuations, the best of which are bleeding and gentle purging. The patient must live sparingly, and above all, use little exercise. In a weak and irritable constitution the symp- toms are frequently violent, the inflammation ex- tending along the urethra, and even aflecting the bladder. Here the indication is to strengthen; and according to Mr. Ilnntor, bark alone has been known to eftect a cure. All evacuations are hurt- ful. A fever has been known to stop the discharge. GONORRHOEA. 797 relieve the pain in making water, and finally cure the disease. On other occasions, Mr. Hunter has seen all the symptoms of gonorrhoea cease on the accession of a fever, and return when the fever was subdued. In other examples, a go- norrhoea mild at first, has been rendered severe by the coming on of a fever, and upon its sub- sidence the gonorrhffia has ceased. Although a fever does not always cure a gonorrhrea, yet as it may do so, nothing should be done while it lasts. If the local complaint should continue after the fever is gone, it is to be treated according to symptoms. A gonorrhoea may be considerably affected by the patient's manner of living, and by other diseases attacking the constitution. Most things which hurry or increase the circulation aggravate the symptoms; such as violent exercise, drinking strong liquors, eating high-seasoned, indigestible food, some kinds of which act specifically on the urethra, so as to increase the symptoms more than simply heating the body would do; such as pepper, spices in general, and spirits. In cases which have begun mildly and in which the inflammation is only slight, or in others in which the violent symptoms have subsided, such medicines as have a tendency to lessen the dis- charge may be given, together with the local ' remedies before mentioned. Turpentines are the most efficacious, particularly the balsam of copaiba (See Copaiba) and cubebs. (See Edin. Med, a?id Surgical Journ. for January, 1818, (i«c? for the same mcmth, 1819: also, //. Jeffery's Pract. Ohs. on Cid/ebs, 8vo. Lend. 1821.) Of the latter medi- cine 3ij. may be given thrice in the twent)--four hours, or an equivalent dose in the form of cap- sules, essence, or watery extract may be preferred. But with respect to these and all other medicines, which act upon the disease through the medium of the urine, if they succeed at all, it is always within a week or ten days from the beginning of their use; and therefore if no amendment take place in this time, they should not be continued. Bleeding from the Urethra is sometimes relieved by the balsam of copaiba. Mr, Hunter did not find astringent injections of use. Ice-cold water applied to the penis, scrotum, and perinasum, is .one of the best expedients. Painftd Erections are greatly prevented by taking twenty drops of tinctura opii, or half a drachm of vinum colchici, at bedtime. Hemlock has also some power in this way; and many sur- geons, among whom is Mr. Dunn, of Scarborough, have a favourable opinion of camphorated poultices, and of the internal exhibition of camphor. Chordee.—When the inflammation is not con- fined merely to the surface of the urethra, but affects the corpus spongiosum,' it produces in it au extravasation of coagulable lymph,as in theadhesive inflammation, whicli, uniting the cells together, destroys the power of distension of the corpus spongiosum urcthr.c, and makes it unequal in this respect to the corpora cavernosa penis, and there- fore a curvature takes place at the time of an erection, which is called a chordee. The curvature is generally in the lower part of the penis. When the chordee is violent, the inner membrane of the urethra is so much upon the stretch, that it niaj- be torn, and a profuse bleeding from the urethra excited, that often relieves the patient, and even sometimes proves a cure. This is the injlamma-