^'^^ DISLOCATION, being in that case the first stage of the true dislo- cation. The internal lateral ligament is more fre- (luently ruptured than the external. In a case seen by Mr. Aston Key, at Guy's Hospital, the following were the appearances noticed : —There was no evident deformity about the knee, but "the internal lateral ligament was found'com- pletely torn through, as was also, in some mea- siire, the tendon of the vastus internus muscle. On turning the foot and leg outwards, a fissure could be felt between the inner condyle of the femur and the head of the tibia, into which the finger might be depressed." (See Gm's Hosp Reports, 1836, vol. i. p. 256.) T.T^^r^"^'^ °^ *"j"'"y °^ nature which M. Malgaigne had an opportunity of dissecting he found the internal lateral ligament completely ruptured, and the capsule torn across, from the inner head of the gastrocnemius behind to the attachment of the vastus internus to the patella in front. The laceration also extended some dis- tance upwards through the faseia lata on the inner side of this muscle. M. Malgaigne could only meet with one recorded case of the external subluxation which was ob- served by Dr. Norris. There was great pain, and uiabihty to move the knee, but no appearance of derangementof the joint, until, in raising the leg, it ■was found that it could be carried more inwards than was natural, and that there was a marked separation on the outer side; the separation disap peared when the leg was brought back to its nor- mal position. {Malgaigne, loc. cit. p. 949.) Treatment.—The treatment is obviously to place the bones in their proper position, and to maintain them in the same for a sufBcient length of time for the torn ligaments to become firmly united. Mr. Key placed a straight splint on the outside, extend- ing from the leg to the foot; this, however, did not keep the bones in proper apposition; the limb was therefore placed on an inclined plane, which appeared to answer better, but in order to hinder all motion, two or three layers of plaster were applied to the joint, and this with the whole bound firmly to the inclined plane. In six weeks the patient left the hospital, and resumed his occupa- tion, with the power and motion of the limb but little impaired. (See Guy's Hosp. Reports, 1836. vol. i, p. 250.) Jr If , , In two cases, however, which came under M. Malgaigne's observation, the result was not so satisfactory, for the leg remained permanently bent outwards, producing considerable deformity, and the usefulness of the limb was much impaired. He recommends that a broad and long external splint should be applied, bearing upon the leg and thigh by means of cushions placed between it and those parts, but not touching the outer side of the knee; then bandages should be applied, embracing the inner side of the knee, and fixed to the splint in such a manner as to bring the bones and the rup- tured ligaments into as perfect contact as possible. Ill Dr. Norris's case of rupture of the external iigament, the limb was placed in a fracture appa- ratus, the joint being kept extended. Its use was pertectly restored, but not till after an interval of live months. (See Malgaigne, loc. cit. p. 947.)] dozen cases only haying been recorded; although some degree of rotation is, as has been shown, not an^X in^^'r^".' '!} lateral dislocations, and also in a slighter degree, in the dislocations ttn r*^' ^-location by ro "- lon outwards appears to be more frequent tlian that by rotation inwards. This may Jerhaps be accounted for by the arrangement of ?he crucia gamen s; for ,t will be found, after all the other ligaments of the joint have been divided, that the crucial ligaments will oppose a strong resistance to ro ation inwards, but will permit rotation outwards till the tibia IS turned almost completely round A very complete case of dislocation by rotation outwards was observed in the practice of M Mal- gaigne. The leg, which remained in an extended position was turned outwards, and the foot rested on the bed by its external border. The tibia had undergone a movement of rotation upon its axis which had carried the internal tuberosity for- wards under the femoral trochlea, and the external tuberosity backwards under the intercondyloid notch, while the head of the fibula was prominent opposite to what should have been the popliteal space. The anterior tuberosity, which had become external, had carried with it the patella, which was completely dislocated outwards. The condyles of the femur were prominent externally and inter- nally, and there was a depression beneath them A'^a^^ f "l^ complication of a fracture of the tibia and hbula, the dislocation was easily reduced by extension and rotation in the 'opposite direction. 1 he fracture, however, confined the patient to her bed for more than four months, and then the knee was stiff, painful, and incapable of supporting the weight of the body, and a year and a half after the accident no sensible amelioration had taken place In the above instance the tibia had undergone a movement of rotation upon its central axis; this however, does not appear to be always the case but It may rotate upon an axis passing through the' centre of one of its articular concavities, so that one tuberosity is displaced backwards while the other remains in contact with and supports the corresponding condyle of the femur. This appears to have been the condition of the parts in a case of rotatory dislocation outwards observed by M. Petrequin, in which the displacement was thus' limited to the external condj'le. The spine of the tibia was here situated under the anterior part of the external condyle of the femur. The patella was completely dislocated outwards. The limb was extended, abducted, and rotated outwards. M. Malgaigne thinks the first kind of dis- placement mentioned might be described as a complete, and the last as an incomplete rotatory dislocation. The same authority refers to two cases of dislo- cation by rotation imcards, similarly incomplete ; the inner portion of the tibia being partially displaced backwards from the internal condyle. {Trailc des Fract. t. ii. p. 961.)] [Rotatory dislocation of the tibia.—A purely ro- tatory displacement of the tibia is rare, some half- Dislocation of the Semilunar Cartilages.— I have next to notice the cases which were first described by the late Mr. Hey, and are named by Sir A. Cooper partial huntions o/(/te thigh-bone from the semilunar cartilages. Mr. Hey observes, that the disorder may happen either with or without contusion. When no contusion has occurred, or the effects of it are removed, the joint,