864 (See HJiu. Mcd.Journ. for Doc. 1060, pp. 504, 567 ; also for Feb. 186], p. 692.)] For additional information respecting haemor- rliage, see Amputation, Aneurism, Arteries, LiG-ATURE, and Wounds. Consult also Petit's M^moires, amonf!: those of I'Acad. des Sciences for the years 1731, 1732—1735. Morand, Sur le Cliangenient qui arrive aux Art^res couples, 1736. Pouteau, i\l(?lang;es de Cliirurgie. Goocli's Cliirurgical Works, vol. i. Kirkland's Essay on the MethoLl of suppressing: HiEinorrhases from divided Arteries, 8vo. l.ond. 1763. W/n/e's Cases in Surgery. J. Bell's Principles of Surgery, Vol. Larrey, M(?in. de Chir. Militaire, torn. ii. p. 379. Pclletan, Clinique Chir. t. ii. p. 140, &c. Richerand, Nosographie Cliir. t. iv. sect, sur les Maladies des Artferes, p. 23, &c. edit. 4. Jones, On the Process employed by Nature in suppressing the Hasmorrhage from Divided and Punctured Arteries, 1805. Hodgson, On the Diseases of Arteries and Veins. Be»j. Trnvers, Observations upon the Ligature of Arteries, and the Causes of Secondary Haemorrhage, &c. in Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. iv. p. 435 et seq. Likewise Further Obs. on the Ligature of Arteries, by the same, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vi. p. 632 et seq. W. Lawrence, On a New Method of Tying the Arteries in Aneurism, Amputation, &c. in vol. vi. of the Med. Chir. Trans, p. 156, &c.; and Crampton, in vol. vii. of the same work. Langenbeck, Bibl. b. i. Dr. J. Thomson's Lectures on Inflammation, p. '250, &c.; and Obs. made in the Military Hospitals in Belgium, p. 42— 44. Scarpa, On Aneurism, and particularly his Memoir on the Ligature of Artei ies: this is contained in the second edit, of the Transl. by Wisliart. Bi- c/a>-rf,Rxp^ripnces sur les Blessures desArt^res, M<?m. de la Soc. M^d. d'Emulation, t. viii. Robt. Harrison, Surgical Anatomy of the Arteries, 2 vols. Dublin, 1824-25. T. Turner, On the Arterial System, &c. and the Surgical Treatment of Haemorrhage, 8vo. Loud. 1825. Velpeutc. Anatom. Chir. 2 tomes, 8vo. Paris, 1825. Jo/in Green Crosse, A Case of Amputation, ■with some Experiments and Observations on the securing of Arteries with minute Silk Ligatures, in Lond. Med. Repository, vol. vii. p. 353. P. .T. Manec, Traits Th^orique et Pratique de la Ligature des Art&res, fol. Paris, 1832. il. le Baron Dupuj/tren, Lcijons Orales de Clinique Chir. t. iv. art. 13, 8vo. Paris, 1834. G. J. Guthrie, On the Diseases and In- juries of Arteries, 8vo. Lond. 1830. J. Lix/ranc, Des diverses Mfetliodes pour l'Oblit(;ration des Art^res, Svo. Paris, 1834. L. .7. Sanson, Des H^morrhagies Traumatiques, 8vo. Paris, 1836. Robert Carswell, Illustrations of the Elementary Forms of Disease; Fasciculus 6, 4to. Lond. 1834. [Miller, Principles of Surgery, ed. 2, Edinburgh, 1850. System of Sur- gery, edited by Holmes, vol. 1; London, 1861.] [HiEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS. Hcemor- rhagic crasis (auc. var.); Hmmorrhopilis {Rokitan- sky). A watery condition of the blood, coupled with a preternaturally delicate and vulnerable strnoture of the coats of the vessels. This disease is by no means of uncommon occur- rence in this countr)', and is met with in America, but is believed to be most frequent in Germany. It is for the most part hereditary, affecting the males in families, although occasionally the females, and is very often transmitted for many generations to the males from the maternal grandfather through the mothers, although in some families the females have been known to die in after life during child- birth or from uterine hremorrhage. It most com- monly manifests itself at a very early period; but there is no certainty as to this, since it sometimes occurs for the first time in adult age. The lia- bility to it declines as age advances, individuals of this diathesis having lived to be old, and died of other diseases. Men marrying healthy wives are said not to transmit the tendency to their progeny. Although hereditary in this remarkable manner. It 18 occasionally induced, even in this couiitrv in Pi'eviously healthy subjects, by anti-hygienic iliflu- H/EMORRHAGE. ences, as deficiency of food, pure air, light, and ezcrcise. Dr. John Hay assc-rts that "the children of bleeders are never subject to this disposition; but their grandsons by their daughters are." The circumstances connected with a case recorded in Mr. Wardrop's work, by Mr. Ward, of Ewell, are as follows : " His mother has a numerous offspring, and a brother who is twenty-two years old is afflicted in a similar way, and is also an almost constant sufferer with rheumatic gout. He had five uncles and two aunts; all his uncles had the same haemorrhngic tendency. Three died from slight wounds, as division of the frcenum lingute, and the other had the same disease, but died from some other cause. The aunts had not that ten- dency in their persons; the one had three boys, two of whom were thus afflicted; the other had two boya and two girls; both boys were afflicted in the same way." Mr. Lane, from an investiga- tion of the cases before him, at the time he wrote, came to the conclusion " that males only are sub- ject to this peculiarity of constitution;" that the father of a bleeder is always free from the dis- ease; that the son of a bleeder is never affected by it; that the bleeder inherits this tendency invariably from his maternal grandfather." [On the Hcemorrlui- gic Diathesis, hy Samuel Lane. The Lancet, 1840, vol. i. p. 185.) The later experience of the Ger- mans seems to have shown that this is not an ab- solute law, although a very general rule. The blood in this disease is essentially hydraemic, deficient in fibrins, and in extreme cases non-coagu- lable. The fibrine occurs in diminished proportion absolutely, and also' in relation to the red cor- puscles ; differing in the latter particular from t'le blood of chlorosis. When coagulation takes place, the clot, remarkably destitute of firmness, is porous, being easily permeated by fluid, and conse- quently useless as a haemostatic. Some observers have found the red corpuscles altered in structure, angular, or otherwise misshapen, jagjed, and ser- rated; but in the early stages the blood is of the ordinary colour. Most of the structures, includ- ing the capillary vessels, and especiallj* the ar- teries, are remarkably fine. The diminution of fibrine is accompanied with diminished viscidity. There is thus, failure, both in the coagulability of the blood and in the contractility of the vessels, the latter becoming almost passive and easily dila- table tubes, with a degree of fluidity of their con- tents favourable to hyperaemia and lia;morrhago. The disease most frequently proves fatal by capillary haemorrhage. The hajmorrhage is some- tiuies the result of a solution of continuity, and sometimes spontaneous. It is most severe from lacerated wounds. It may be periodical, recurring at regular or irregular periods, and has been known to return annually. Death may result from the slightest wound or surgical operation, and has happened very frequently from the abstraction of a tooth. Cases are also recorded in which the operations of bleeding, cupping, the introduction of a seton needle, the division of the froiuum linguaj, also the accidental biting of the tongue, or a slight wound of a finger, have proved fatal. A small pebble fell on the nail of a finger of a boy uifder two years old, and blood issued from the eml of the finger till he bled to death. (.Dr. J. C. OUo, lib. cit. jMssim.) Frequently all the males of a family die of it. Sanson, in his Thesis