CARIES. CEuvres Posthmes.) Even now tliey sometimes toucli the apex of tlie swelling with muriate of antimony, oi- the actual cautery, especially when the pain is excessively severe; and tlie practice is alleged to be the most expeditious mode of relief. However, Dupuytren makes a distinction between anthrax and malignant carbuncles, observing that the proper cure for the former is an incision, but for the latter, the actual or potential cauterv. In America, emollient poultices are continued until vesications appear, openings form, and a bloody serum begins to be discharged : the surfVice of the tumor is then freely covered with caustic vegetable alkali, which of course produces a good deal of pain, but this soon subsides, and the severe burning agon}-, peculiar to the complaint is now quite removed. It was Dr. Physick who first ex- plained the proper period for the application ; without_ which knowledge. Professor Gibson says, much mischief has resulted from ill-timed incisions and the actual and potential cauteries. {Instiltiies of Surgery, vol. i. p. 52.) With respect to the constitutional treatment, the continental surgeons, in the beginning of the case, before a slough has formed, usually prescribe gentle diaphoretic drinks, containing a sufficient quantity of tartrate of antimony to open the bowels. After this stage, they have immediate recourse to tonics and cordials. It should always be remem- bered, that the disease is for the most part met with in bad constitutions, and in persons who are weak and irritable. Hence bleeding is rarely allow- able. Bark, sulphate of quinine, camphor, wine, opium, ffither, and the regulation of the bowels, with calomel and other means, are the internal me- dicines ^ most commonly needed. The diluted sulphuric acid is highly proper, as well as aroma- tics and a nourishing diet. As the pain is severe, opium is essential. The constitutional treatment is analogous to that of mortification. (See Mor- tification.) [M. N^laton takes a different view of the patho- logy and local treatment of carbuncle and boil to that generally received. He denies that the core, or yellow pulpy mass, constituting the charac- teristic feature of these ailments, is composed of a sloiigh of the subcutaneous cellular tissue. He maintains that it is of the nature of a false membrane, a membrano gelatinous secretion, re- sulting from an inflammation of a peculiar type. "Gangrenous masses," he observes, "from the time of their elimination, possess a peculiar in- fectious odour, while the so-called slough of a boil or carbuncle is devoid of smell ; that, in a slough are found the greater portion of the elements of the organ which has been deprived of life, especially the vessels ; but that in the core of a carbuncle no trace of organisation is observed ; tliat cellular tissue, which dies from violent inflanmiation, is struck with death at the time only when the inflammation has attained its highest degree of intensity, and that the core (bourbillon) exists long before this period, for it is found completely formed from the first appearance of the swelling, nnd that then and afterwards it offers no appear- ance of vessels. In proof of his assertion that tlie core IS the product of a pseudo membranous secre- tion, he adds, " when serous membranes inflame they become covered sometimes by false mem- branes; cellular tissue, which has a jfrroat analogy With serous surfaces in its structure, f'unctions, and diseases, secretes also, under some circumstances, a yellowish white albuminous gelatinous m itter, which _^is deposited in its meshes, where it con- cretes. M. Ndaton objects to incisions in car- buncles, which he conceives have been practised under the erroneous impression that a slou'-h existed under the skin and required a free openin"' for its escape. " It has been long known that carbuncle and boils have been associated with diabetes. Dr. Prout says,—" Diabetes very frequently (as far as my experience goes, always) accompanies carbuncles and malignant boils, or abscesses allied to car- buncles." [Prout, On the Nature and Treatment of Stomach and Remd Diseases, p. 35.) Dr. Garrod, however, although he admits that diabetic patients are very liable to carbuncles or boils, denies that persons suffering from these latter affections ex- hibit any trace of sugar in their urine, unless pre- viously diabetic. He says,—" In one instance, a gentlemen aged about seventy, suffering from a large carbuncle between the shoulders, from which he subsequently died, I examined the urine very carefully when the disease was fully developed,— no trace of sugar was discovered. In the second, a gentleman about sixty years old, the urine, at the time when a carbuncle existed on the back of the neck, exhibited no trace of sugar. I have also made several other examinations of the urine of patients suffering from boils and carbuncles, with- out being able to find any saccharine impregnation. I think I am justified, therefore, in concluding that, although carbuncles and boils are of very common occurrence in diabetic subjects, the pre- sence of sugar in the urine of patients suffering from these aflFections is by no means constant, pro- bably very rare ; and that, when carbuncles and boils occur in patients not previously diabetic, sugar is very seldom found in their urine." [Gulsionian Lectures, British MedicalJoiirnal, April 18, 1857, p. 319.)] CARIES (from caries, rottenness or worm-eat- enness in wood). Caries is a disease of the bones, supposed to be very analogous to ulceration of the soft parts ; and this comparison is one of great antiquity, having been made by Galen. However, by the generality of the ancients, caries was not discriminated from necrosis. It was from the surgeons of the eighteenth century, that more correct opinions w-ere derived respecting caries. Until that period, writers had done little more than mention the complaint and the methods of treating it. Some new liglit was thrown upon the subject by J. L. Petit, in his remarks upon exostosis and caries. (il/<(/. des Os, t. ii. chap. xvi. p. 27.) But as he only spoke of the disorder as one of the terminations of exostosis, he has not entered far into the con- sideration of it. The best observations on caries wore first made by Dr. A. Monro, ^W;hhs. {Edin. Med. Essays, vol. v. art. 25.) This memoir con- tains the earliest correct ideas of dry caries, or ne- crosis, which is rightly compared to mortification of the soft parts, and named gangrenous caries. [There need no longer be any hesitation about pronouncing caries to be the affection of the osseous tissue, which corresponds to ulcerntioii in soft parts. It is a molecular death and disintegration of the bone, attended with suppuration, resulting from inflanimatioii, (osteitis); to the particular inflam- mation which so results, the terms ulcerative and