BLISTERS. 322 Some of the casea recorded have probably been examples of the large round worm, strongylus gigas, which occasionally infests the kidney, and which may have descended along the ureters to the bladdei'. Kuclienmeister, however, believes that some of the older histories of cases may refer to membranous and polypous blood concretions, whicli from their round form were regarded as strongyli, and which had probably obtained their form from the ureters, and when they were smaller, from the tubuli uriniferi. From the rarity of the strongylus, he also sugests, that some of the larger ones may have been examples of the ascaris lumbricoides, or round worm ; and the smaller ones, of the ascaris verraicularis, or thread worm, which inhabit the in- testine, and which may have passed outwards into the bladder, in consequence of recto-vesical, or vesi- co-vaginal fistula. (See Kttchemnoister, Manual of ParasUes, Sydenham Society's Translation, by Dr. Lankestcr, vol. i. p. 376.) The spiroptera, de- scribed by Professor Owen, are regarded by Brem- ser as examples of young strongylus gigas ; and the dactylius aculeatus, described in Mr. Curling's case, are considered byKuchenmeisteras "undoubt- edl}'- only an animal of the family of the lumbri- cini, which had got accidentally into the urine." (Loc. cit. vol. ii. p. 100.)] Hi/datids.—Hydatids are sometimes passed by the urethra, but the case is exceedingly rai'e. The following curious account of the^josi! mortem appearances in an instance of this kind is given hj' Dr. Tyson, in the Pliilosophical Transactions for 1687 : — "Therein, upon operation," says Dr. Tj'son, " we discovered a very strange sort of cystes, or bags, of the exact figure of eggs, of several dimensions, some larger than goose eggs, others as big as hen eggs, to the number of twelve in all, and about eight of them whole, and replete with limpid serum ; all of them loose and free, without the least adhesion, either to one another or the coat of the bladder. Nor could we imagine that this miserable patient could possibly make any water, but what liappened upon the breach of some of these watery tumors, when the bladder was crowded beyond its dimensions. The ureters were of the largeness of the small guts in children, so that they could easily admit two fingers into their cavity. One of the vesiculfe being opened, had a large cluster of small ova, as big as grapes, all re- plete with liquor. All the rest contained nothing but serum," In an example under Dr. Duncan, the hydatids discharged from the urethra were formed in the kidney. The symptoms were frequent desire to make water, and sometimes difficulty in making the evacuation, and pain about the hip, peri- neum and glans penis. The pain in the perineum was generally felt six or seven hours before each hydatid was expelled. The expulsion of the hy- datids was promoted by exhibiting twelve minims of diluted muriatic acid thrice a day. The hyda- tids voided were of a globular shape, and of tlio genus acephalo-cyst, and varied in size from that of a pea to that of a pigeon's egg. Probably they had enlarged after their descent into the bladder. (Sec Liverpool Med. Juurn. for .Tuly, 1034.) [The hydatids discharged by the urethra have probably been originally derived from the kidney, in which org,-vn these parasites occasionally have their habituation. They have probably been ex- amples of the ordinary liydatid of the human sub- ject, EchinoccuB hominis or E. altricipariens of Kuchenmeister. According to Kuclienmeister, the structures called ncephalocysts are nothing more than sterile hydatids, the groivth of which has pro- ceeded, but which have been disturbed in their development, and remain barren. Dr. Sieveking has recorded a case in which hy- datids were discharged from the urethra, by a male out-patient, ret. 21, under his care at St. Mary's Hospital. (See Lancet, vol. ii. 1853, p. 238.) Another instance came under the notice of Mr. Simon. (See Lancet, vol. ii. 1853, p. 291.) In both these cases, the hydatids had probably de- scended from the kidney, for in both their eva- cuation was preceded by an attack of pain in the loins and hypochondriac regions. Both perfectly recovered.] James R. Lane. BLEEDING. By this operation is understood the taking away of blood for the relief of diseases. Bleeding is called general, when practised with a view of lessening the whole mass of circulating blood ; topical, when performed in the vicinity of the disease, for the express purpose of lessening the quantity of blood in a particular part. General Blood-letting is performed with a lancet, and is subdivided into two kinds; viz. the opening of a vein, termed phlebotomy, or venesection; and the opening of an artery, usually the temporal, or one of its branches, termed arteriotomy. Topical Blood-letting is performed, either by means of a cupping-glass and scarificator, or leeches, or by dividing the visibly distended vessels with a lancet, as is frequently done in cases of ophthalmia. (See Arteriotomy; Cupping, Leeches, Scari- fication, and Venesection.) BLEEDING. (See Arteries, Hemorrhage, Ligature, Wounds.) BLENORRHAGIA, or Blinorrhwa (from &Kkwa, mucus, and pEw, to flow). A discharge of mucus. Swediaur, who maintained that gonorrhrea is attended with a mucus, and not a purulent, dis- charge, preferred the name of blenorrhagia for the disease. [Several modem authorities have also adopted the term blenorrhagia in preference to gonorrlioj.a, which latter word signifies etymologicaliy a dis- charge of semen, and is therefore incorrect. Tlie word blenorrhagia, however, is not unobjectionable, since we now know that mucous membranes, when inflamed, can throw out a truly purulent secretion, and tliis is the real character of the discharge in gonorrhoja.] (See Gonorrhosa.) BLEPHAROPTOSIS (from /3A6<J)aj>ov, the eye- lid, and wrSff-if. a falling down.) Called also ptosis. An inability to raise the upper eyelid. (Sec Ptosis.) BLINDNESS. An effect of many diseases of the eye. (See Amaurosis; Cataract; Cornka, Opacities of; Glaucoma; Hvdropiithai.mia;' Leucoma ; Ophthalmy ; Ptergium; Pupil, Closure op; Staphyloma, &c.) BLISTERS. Applications, which, when put on the skin, raise the cuticle in the form of a vesi- cle, filled with a serous fluid. Various substances produce this effect; but the powder of cautharides is what is commonly employed. The blister-plaster is tluis composed :—^jt. Cantharidis inpnlv. suhtitis- simnm trit<c Ibj. Cera, scvi, aa. ^viiss. liesintr .^uj. Adipis 5vj. To the wax, suet, and lard melted together, .add the resin previously nicKcd. lake them from the fire, and when they liave become nearly cold, si)rinklc in the c.antiiandcs, and mix.