ANEURISM. 157 diseased in the same manner ns it had been previously, for which reason, a third operation for anexirism was performed, folfowed by no relapse. " Could the several aneurisms of the humeral artery (says Mr. Warner) be attributed to the sudden check alone, which the blood met with from the e.\tremity of the vessel being secured by ligature ? or is it not more reasonable to sup- pose, that the coats of the arterj', nearly as high up as the axilla, were originall)'- diseased and ■weakened ?" The latter seemed, to this judicious writer, the most probable way of accounting for the successive returns of the disease of the vessel: since it is found from experience, that such acci- dents have been very rarely known to occur after amputation either of the arm or thigh, where nearly the same resistance must be made to the circulation in every subject of an equal age and vigour, who has undergone such operation. If it were supposed, that the several dilatations of the coats of the vessel arose merelj'' from the check in the circulation, it appeared to Mr. Warner not easy to account for the iinal success of this oper- ation; especially when we reflect, that the force of the blood is increased in proportion to its near- ness to the heart. (See Cases in Surgery, p. 139, 140, ed. 4.) Ruysch has related an observation somewhat similar. {Ohs. Anat. Cliir. t. i. p. 4.) In 1813, M. Roche published another occurrence of this kind, which happened in the posterior tibial artery. (See Lisfranc, De VObliteration des Ar- teres, p. 97.) Prognosis. In cases of aneurism, the prognosis varies ac- cording to a variety of important circumstances. The disease may generally be considered as ex- ceedingly dangerous ; for, if left to itself, it almost always terminates in rupture, and the patient dies of heraorrliage. There are some examples, however, in which a spontaneous cure took place ; and aneurismal swellings have been known to lose their pulsation, become hard, smaller, and gradually reduced to an indolent tubercle, which entirely disappeared. After death, the artery, in such instances, has been found obliterated, and converted into a ligamentous cord, without any vestige of the aneurism being left. Aneu- risms are also sometimes attacked with mortifi- cation ; the sac and adjacent parts slough awaj' ; the artery is closed with coagulum ; and thus a cure is effected. Lastly, tumors, having all the characters of aneurisms, have been known to dis- appear under the employment of such pressure as was certainly too feeble to intercept entirely the course of the blood. Such examples of suc- cess, however, arc not common ; and whenever they happen, it is because the entrance of blood into the sac is prevented by the coagulation of that already contained in it, and because the artery above the swelling is filled witli coagulum. They must, in fact, have been cured on the very same principle which renders the surgical operation suc- cessful. [The way in which the spontaneotts cure of nn aneurism takes place has been especially investi- gated of late years by Mr. Bellingham. It occa- sionally, but very rarely happens, that in conse- quence of inflammation the sac becomes consoli- dated, and the artery obliterated. But more frequently the spontaneous cure takes place by the deposition in tlie interior of the sao, of successive layers of laminated fibrine, by which the flow of blood through the sac is partially interfered with, until at length it is completelj' interrupted. This process is most commonly met with in arteries of the second and third order of magnitude; never, I believe, in the aorta. It can only occur in saccu- lated aneurisms, and is much favoured by any circumstance that diminishes the force and lessens the amount of blood passing through the sac] Nothing is gubject to more variety than the duration of an aneurism previously to its rupture ; the tumor bursting sooner or later, according as the patient happens to lead a life of labour, or ease, temperance, or moderation. [Even the burst- ing of an internal aneurism may not immediately kill the patient. There is usually hemorrhage for some hours or days from an aneurism about to give way, before the final rupture takes place, and the fatal event may be retarded for weeks by the accidental plugging up of the orifice in the sac by a coagulum. Aneurisms prove fatal verj'' fre- quently by their pressure effects. The compression exercised by an aneurism of the arch of the aorta upon the vagus nerve, upon the trachea, or bronchi ma)' occasion fatal results.] Ever3f aneurism so situated that the artery can neither be compressed, nor tied above the swelling, has generally been considered absolutely incurable, except by a natural process, the establishment of which is not sufficiently often the case to raise much expectation of a recovery on this principle. But it should be recollected, that sometimes the size of the swelling appears to leave no room for the application of a ligature above it, while things are in reality otherwise, in consequence of the communication between the sac and the artery bearing no proportion to the magnitude of the tumor itself At the present day. also, enlightened by anatomical knowledge, and en- couraged by successful experience, surgeons boldly follow the largest arteries, even within the boundaries of the chest and abdomen, as I shall presently relate ; and numerous facts have now proved, that few external aneurisms are beyond the reach of modern surgery. It being certain, that aneurisms cannot be commonly cured, except by an obliteration of the aifected artery, it follows, that the circulation must be carried on by the superior and inferior collateral branches, or else the limb would mortify. Experience proves, that the impediment to the passage of the blood through the diseased arter}', obliges this fluid to pass through the collateral branches, which gra- dually acquire an increase of size. It is therefore a common notion, that it must be in favour of the success of the operation, if the disease be of a certain standing ; and, in direct opposition to the sentiments of Kirkland, Boyer even asserts that the most successful operations have been' those performed on persons who have had the disease a long while. {Maladies Ckirurq t ii p. 1 IG.) There is this objection to delay, however,—the tumor becomes so large, and the effects of its pressure so extensive and injurious, tliat, after the artery is tied, great inllammatidu, snppin'ation, and sloughing, often attack the suciling itself, and the patient falls a victim to Avhat would not have oc- curred had the operation boon performed sooner. The large size of nn aneurism, ns Mr. Hodg-