GLAUCOMA cmnplalut; we shall not be surprised at finding that the results of examination are not always alike." (See Lawrence, On Dis. of the Eye, ed. 3. p. 497. In glaucoma, the pupil is green, or yellowish green : and if the eye be looked at laterally, no discoloration is seen. In cataract, the pupil is grey, or greyish white, and it has the same appear- ance in whatever direction it is viewed. In glau- coma, the loss of vision is not in direct proportion to the change of colour in the pupil. With an in- considerable change, vision may be entirely de- stroyed, or seriously impaired ; but in cataract there is a direct proportion between the degree of opacity and the injury to sight. In cataract, vision is best in a weak light; in glaucoma it is stronger in a powerful light, because, as the retina is less sensible, more light is required to make an impres- sion on it. {Laicrence, op. cit. p. 498.) Dr. Mackenzie was the first to apply the catoptrical test to the diagnosis of glaucoma from incipient cataract. The distinction between the appearances presented to the observer by the reflections from the flame of a candle in the two diseases, are mentioned in the article Cataract. Glaucoma, after it is conjoined with a varicose disease of the eyeball, is set down by Beer as in- curable. According to Weller, when the vitreous humour first begins to be muddy, the disease may sometimes be checked. (0« Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 29.) Beer states that no treatment will avail m checking glaucoma, and preventing complete amau rosis. The prognosis is unquestionably most unpromising. I have seen many cases of glaucoma treated, but never with success. Mr. Lawrence holds out more encouragement than Beer, and recommends antiphlogistic treatment, as cupping; active purgatives ; mercury, long continued, but not used so as to cause salivation ; a regulated diet, and repose of the organ. (^On Dis. of the Eye, p. 394.) Counter-irritation has also been found useful, and especially frictions with antimonial ointment between the shoulders. Arthritic inflam- mation of the eye is often greatly benefited by tonics, as precipitated carbonate of iron and sul- phate of quinine. After depletion, one very ex- perienced practitioner sanctions the trial of them in glaucoma. (See Mackenzie, On Dis. of the Eye, p. 899, ed. 4.) On the principle of there being a superabundance of dissolved vitreous humour, the same gentleman conceives that occasionally punc- turing the sclerotica and choroid with a broad iris knife might prove serviceable. He also states that he has known glaucoma operated upon for cataract, and the removal of the amber-coloured lens followed by a considerable accession of vision. But as he liad also known violent inflammation ensue, he does not venture to recommend this pro- ceeding for general adoption. A grooved cataract needle, as recommended by Mr. Middlemore, seems to me the best instrument for puncturing the vitreous humour. Mr. Middlemore finds that no remedies will interrupt the progress of senile r/Umcoma, and he deems no treatment requisite, unless circumstances denote that the affection is rendered worse by the existence of chronic inflam- mation of the septa of tlie vitreous humour or neighbouring textures. If this be the case, he would employ mild purgatives, and, perhaps a little mer- cury, with permanent counter-irritation and the 779 avoidance of all exertion of the eye, particularly in artificial light, or on minute objects. In the acute or injlanimatory glaucoma, Mr, Middlemore is an advocate for antiphlogistic treat- ment, followed up by a seton or blister to the tem- ple, or above the eyebrow. Sometimes he excites slight irritation on the skin of the temple with nitrate of silver. Occasionally he has punctured the vitreous humour with a very fine grooved needle. He advises this to be done whenever there is much local pain, evidently depending on the tension of the globe, " and particularly when vision is nearly destroyed, and the opposite organ is becoming similarly aflfected." In one or two cases, where the muddiness of the vitreous humour was evidently consequent on inflammation, Mr. Middlemore, after the subsidence of the latter affection, discharged the greater part of the turbid fluid with the needle, in the hope that the new secretion would be more transparent ; and he states that he has practised this operation with the greatest advantage to the patient's vision. (See R. Middlemore, op. cit. vol. ii. p. 19—20) The dilatation of the pupil with belladonna sometimes improves vision, when this partly remains ; but the benefit is merely temporary ; and sometimes it causes an increased confusion of sight. [The following remarks upon glaucoma are based upon an analysis of fifty-one cases which have been treated in the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital, Moorfields, during 1857, 1858, and 1859. We recognise two states of glaucoma, viz. the acute and chronic. Acute glaucoma, nineteen cases. A patient attacked by this disease presents the following symptoms, viz. severe pain in the eye attacked, and in the region of the fifth nerve of the corresponding side, diffuse redness of the sub- conjunctival tissue, sometimes accompanied with slight chemosis, and profuse watering occasionally. The eye feels hard, the cornea sometimes appears nebulous, the aqueous humour slightly turbid, the pupil irregularly dilated and fixed, its area greyish, or greenish torbid; vision is entirely lost, or reduced to faint perception of light. The turbid state of the media (humours of the eye) rarely admits of an ophthalmoscopic examination. All the cases where the fundus of the globe and the optic nerve could be seen, presented unmistakable signs of pressure at the opiic nerve, generally with blood spots upon it or in the neighbouring retina. The fundus of the globe appears of a turbid red colour, and the optic nerve also, which has a grey red circle near its periphery ; the retinal vessels while in the optic nerve are thin and hardly perceptible, but up to the retinal aperture are gorged with blood ; the blood spots are some- times confined to the optic nerve and the part of the retina nearest to it, in other cases the whole of the fundus is sprinkled with them. The cases of acute glaucoma which came under my notice have been treated by Dr. Oracle's method, viz. by excision of a portion of iris, and with excellent results. Such an acute attack, if left to itself, or treated in any other way, except by excision of part of the iris, may subside spontaneously, and vision become restored; but the attack will return, though per- haps in n less acute form, and finally lead to loss