699 FRACTURE. arm, and concluded, that tlicre would be no union ; but to my surprise, it united quite as soon as ordinary fractures. Women, labouring under cancer of the breast, are very liable to a similar disease of different bones in the body. Some- times this disease, which is indicated by pains, like those of rheumatism, will affect nearly the whole of the bones, which then become brittle, and verj' liable to break. I first observed this fact, many 3-ears ago, in the case of an old woman, who was dying of cancer, and who, in turning one day iu bed, broke the thigh-bone. I concluded that the broken bone would not unite ; but union took place as well as under ordinarj' circum- stances. I attended a lady, two years ago, who had cancer of the breast, and pains in the limbs, indicating cancerous disease of the bones. There was a scirrhous affection of the collar-bone'; and one day, in moving her arm, the collar-bone was broken ; but it united, just as if it had been a healthy bone." (Sir B. Brodie, in Lond. Med. Gaz. for 1833-34, p. 56.) The truth of the latter statement has been proved in the case of a woman with a cancerous breast who has been a patient in University College Hospital more than once under Mr. Listen, for spontaneous frac- tures, which have always united again tolerably well. 1 was once called to see a coachman for a retention of urine, dependent on a cancerous dis- ease of the bladder. A few days afterwards his thigh-bone broke as he was turning in bed ; and in the course of another week he died. The post- moiiem examination detected a scirrhous tumor under the perioste\im, surrounding the fractured part of the bone ; and one of the ribs, which had given way, was similarly encompassed. The his- tory of the case is recorded in the Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvii. and the specimens are preserved in University College Museum. According to Boyer, the ends of the fracture, which are sometimes rounded, and sometimes pointed, are connected together by a cellular and ligamentous substance. But their surfaces are not covered by a smooth cartilaginous matter, nor is there constantly a capsular ligament. " I am convinced of this fact, by the dissection of several ununited fractures, the fragments of which are preserved in my museum." (Boyer, t. iii. p. 94.) And, in another place, the same Professor, speak- ing of these false joints, remarks: " I repeat that I have never found, iu'their structure, anything which could be compared with an articulation ; neither capsular ligament, nor smooth cartilaginous surfaces. On the contrary, I have invariably found, in the false joints of the thigh-bone and humerus, which I have had opportunities of dis- secting, a fibrous ligamentous substance, e.xtending from one fragment to tlie other, and it is very pro- bable, that, with some modifications, it is the same with all the other cases, which I have not seen. On this subject, Langenbcck observes, " When the parts are incessantly moved, tiic end of one fragment becomes excavated, in the form of an articular cavity. I have in my possession (says he) a lower jaw, and an olecranon, the fractures of which are not united. For the connecting medium, nature has provided a white substance, resembling lig.iment. I have also seen an articular connection established in the body of the thigh-bone sub- sequently to a fracture," {Neue BlU. b. i. p. 93.) In the Huntcrian Collection may be seen a false joint in the bones of the fore-arm, where the resemblance to a natural articulation was greater than what Boyer has seen in other situations. According to Professor Sharpey, the connection is mostly by means of a tough, fibrous, liga- mentous-looking mass ; and the nearest approxima- tion to a new articulation which occurs, consists in the existence of cavities, more or less extensive, between the fibres of this connecting substance. (See Syme's Principles, ed. ii. p. 161.) The bond of union is stated to differ from ordinary ligament iu presenting no fibrous appearance. Sir Benjamin Brodie, who has made this remark, coincides with Boyer, with regard to the ordinary mode of con- nection ; admitting, however, the occasional forma- tion of a new, or false joint, where " the rounded ends of the bones are covered by a thin ligament- ous substance, and the inner surface of the capsule is lined by a smooth membrane, like the synovial membrane, and capable of secreting synovia." (See Lond. Med. Gaz. for 1833-34, p. 57.) A valuable dissertation on false joints was pub- lished by Reisseisen, entitled " De Ariicula- tioizibus analogis, quce Fracturis Ossium szq^er- veniunV [Rokitansky, who has more recently investi- gated this subject, describes these unnatural joints resulting from fracture as of two kinds: " one more or less resembling a synarthrosis, the other like a diarthrosis, and accordingly, in its proper sense, a new joint. " In the former case, the fractured ends of the bone are held together by a ligamentous tissue. Either a disc of ligament, the thickness of which may vary, is interposed between them, and allows but of little movement; or, as occurs when there has been loss of substance, either from injury, absorption of the fractured ends or otherwise, ligamentous bands connect the fragments, and allow them to move freely on each other. The connecting tissue appears to bo nothing more than the intermediate substance, which has failed to become transformed into the secondary callus and remains in its first state. " In the second case, a ligamentous articular cap. sule is formed, and is lined by a smooth membrane which secretes synovia. The £i-actured surfaces adapt themselves to each other and become covered with a layer of tissue, which is fibro- ligamentous, or more or less fibro-cartilaginous, or which resembles and sometimes (Howship) really is cartilage. They may articulate immediately with one another, or may have between them an intervening layer of ligament, which corresponds to an inter-articular cartilage ; and their move- ment upon each other is more or loss free accord- ing to tiio size of the articular capsule, and the lorm of the articulating surfaces. Tliese hist are sometimes horizontal and smooth; they glide over each other and allow of restricted mo'tion : some- times one surface becomes convex and tlie other concave: sometimes both are rouudwl oil; and lying within a capacious articular capsule far apart they come in contact only during particular move- ments. Tlio articular capsule is the product of the indamm.ation of the soft parts : the carlilagiuiform layer, which covers the ends of the bone, is second- ary callus arrested iu its raotamorpliosis and con- verted into a fibroid tissue. Tlie other ligamen- tous cords wliich are sometimes present, and the structures resembling an inter-avticular curtilage