1085 HYPOSPADIAS. transparency at any point, and he therefore deems it the best and most expeditious method of relief, to divide its centre with a small bistoury, to the extent of a line and a half; and then to raise the little flap with a pair of forceps, and cut it away all round with one stroke of the scissors, so as to let the huraoura escape without any pressure. The eye is to be covered with a bread and milk poul- tice, which is to be renewed every two hours; such general remedies as are calculated to check the progress of acute inflammation, and to quiet the nervous system, not being omitted. In proportion as the interior of the eye suppurates, the eyeball gradually diminishes, shrinks into the orbit, and at length cicatrises, leaving things in a favourable state for the application of an artificial eye. When Scarpa delivers his opinion, that in the above aggravated form of hypopium, there can be no chance of the cornea resuming its transparency at any point, I think his assertion rather impru- dent. Nor, admitting its general truth, does it follow, as a matter of course, that it is necessary and right to cut away a piece of the centre of the cornea, and absolutely destroy whatever little chance may yet be left of saving the eye. In support of this remark, let me contrast what Mr. Travera has said, with the advice of Scarpa :— " When the hypopium is so large as to rise towards the pupil, and the ulceration of the cornea is ex- tending, I think its discharge by section near tlie marffin advisable. If not too long delayed, the ulce- rative process is checked by it, which would other- Avise run into sloughing, and t/te cornea recover ivith only partial opacity and disfigurement." Synopsis ofilie Diseases of the Eye, p. 280.) C. Bader. Mauchart, De Hypopyo; Tubinga:, 1742. C. P. Le- porin, De Hypopyo; 4to. Goet. 1778. Goeldlin, Diss, de Hypopyo ; Brian?. 1810. Waltlier, Merkwurdige, Heilung eines Eiterauges, &c. Svo. Landshut, 1819. A. Scarpa, Saggio di Osservazioni e d'Esperienze, suUe Principal! Malaftie degVi Occlii; Venezia, 1802. Richter, Anfanzsfrrunde der Wundarzneykunst, b. iii. 1795. J. Wardrop, Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, chap. vi. Edinb. 1808. W. Latv- rence, On Dis. of the Eye, p. 279. 8vo. Lond. 1833. R. Middlemore, On Dis. of the Eye, vol. i. p. 606. Svo. Lond. 1835. IF. Muckenzie, On Dis. of the Eye, p. 572. Svo. Lond. 1835. See also articles, Iris, and Cornea. HYPOSPADIAS (from virh, under, and o-n-aoi, to draw). The congenital imperfection in which the urethra terminates at the under part of the penis, and does not extend snfiiciently far forwards to reach the right situation of its orifice in the glans. Sometimes there is a vestige of this orifice, some- times none: half an inch or more of the urethra may bo deficient. In a case of hypospadias in a 3'oung child, in which I was consulted, I cut a new passage through the glans, and, having established a communication between it and the urethra, in- troduced a silver tube. This tube, which was fur- nished with a rim and apertures by which it could •be conveniently fixed, was worn for some time, and the little opening having been touched with caustic, a complete cure was brought about. Mr. Listen sometimes succeeded in completing the passage by turning back a portion of the prepuce, and uniting it witiiout any twist, i. e. with its cutaneous surface directed inwards or towards the urethra. (^Prac- tical Surgery, p. 476.) [At an early stage in the development of the fcetua, all that is found of the urethra is a groove on the under surface of the penis. The sides of the groove subsequently coalesce to form a canal, and the union takes place from behind forwards. If the union is arrested before the whole canal is closed in, a hypospadias is the result. In many instances of hypospadias, the development of the floor of the urethra terminates opposite the base of the glans, and from this point a groove is continued forwards along the under surface of the glans to its anterior extremity. If this condition of the parts is unattended with further deformity, it does not interfere with the urinary, and probably not in any material degree with the sexual, functions of the organ; but in other instances the anterior ex- tremity of the penis is curved downwards, and is in- capable of perfect erection or of emission of the se- minal secretion in the proper direction. The lower part of the prepuce is usually deficient in a corre- sponding degree to the deficiency of the urethra; but it is developed to the normal extent superiorly, and falls over the curved extremity of the glans so that the term " monkshood prepuce " has been applied to the appearance which it presents. In other cases, the meatus urinarius is found in its normal situation, and the anterior part of the urethra is not deficient, but terminates in a cul de sac in front of the unnatural opening; or the urethra may be pervious in front of the hypospa- diac aperture, and form a cul de sac in the opposite direction, in consequence of the closure of the meatus. In those cases in which the anterior part of the canal is entirely deficient, surgical interference is not likely to be attended with much benefit; it would be necessary to perforate the glans with a trocar and canula, and thus entirely to reconstruct the anterior portion of the urethra. A passage thus made is not likely to remain permanently open, unless constant attention is paid to it to keep it from contracting. It would be more pro- bably a source of permanent annoj^ance than of satisfaction to the patient. In those cases, however, where the anterior por- tion of the canal terminates in a cul de sac, and is not deficient, much good may be expected from the perforation of the cul de sac, and the establishment of a communication between the two portions of the canal, after which the sides of the abnormal orifice may be made to unite by the application of caustic; or, should that fail, by a plastic operation similar to that recommended for fistulous openings into tlie urethra. Possibly in some cases a turning back of the skin, as practised by Mr. Liston, may be found to answer the purpose.] END OP THE I'mST VOMIMK.