88G . HEAD, INJURIES OF THE ascertain the extent of .nischief. But we are averse Liii:"v\!::""" "Pi""" •'" ^ ^"i-j-' ™ rZ:In P""' '=°"'Petent to decide: experience alone can justify a proceeding wliidi is at any rate somewhat liazardous. Mr. Gutlirie advises that a biunt or flat-ended probe should be carefully passed into the wound, and, beine ffently pressed against one of the cut edges of the bone Its thickness may be measured, and the presence or absence of the inner table may thus be ascer- tained. It must be confessed that this appears to be_ a most unsatisfactory mode of proceedino- nor IS It clear what information can be gained by it' and in the absence of symptoms, we think, notwith- standing such high authority, the case had better be Jet alone. If, however, symptoms ofmeningeal irri- tation exist, then it may be advisable to introduce tlie probe to ascertain the condition of the inner table; it this is found loose and movable, it will be necessary to remove it, lest it become a source of turther irritation to the dura mater. On the subject ol the re-application of the partially detached parts in sabre-cuts, Hennen (Mililari/ Surgery) says Sabre-cuts admit frequently of being at once re- placed, and m many instances, with the aid of a lew stitches and proper supporting bandages, they adhere without further trouble. In some inflicted by our own and the French dragoons in Spain and J3elgiuni, sections of the scalp, cranium, and even ot the brain, were frequently made, and in many instances were successfully treated bv simply laying the parts together. Lamotte mentions a case where, by a stroke of a dragoon's sabre the skull vvas cleft through the right parietal bone to the depth of two inches, and the left between three and four, down to the ear. This severe wound was cured in less than three months, i'rofessor Thomson mentions a remarkable instance in which a considerable portion of the occipital bone with the dura mater had been removed • a tendency to protrusion of the brain took place during an attack of inflammation; a slight degree of stupor with loss of memory occurred; but, the inflammatory state having been subdued, the brain sank to its former level, the stupor disappeared and the memory returned. And in another case the cerebellum was even pulsating for a period of eight weeks, yet the injury was unaccompanied by any peculiar symptoms," Hennen remarks that the opinion is current amongst writers on military surgery, "that sabre- cuts on the top of the head are not by any means so dangerous as those on the sides. This I have often had occasion to observe in my own practice as well as from the report of others. In some sabre-cuts which divide the skull across the sagit- tal suture, the longitudinal sinus has been occa- sionally opened and bled profusely, but without inducing fatal consequences. I have seen this sinus opened by splinters, but never saw anything ap- proaching to dangerous ha^mnrrhage from it : in truth, the bleeding from wounds of the head is one principal source of the patient's safety." (/Ien?ien, op. cit.) ^ ,JJT f T''"'^' "-^ '^'^ Punctured wkh .'k invariably attended Z Lt ^r"" P?'"^'' ''•'"'S^'-' ■per,"™' f '^"""^f i"«trument has Co ;t U,,.,'". ""^ 'i"'>«y occnv from 'io"ct thrusts, and were frequent when the aiiow was the principal weapon used in war Ihero arc but few situations where an instrument can penetrate the cranium without fracturinTthe bone ; but It IS nevertheless possible : for a sharp- pointed instrument can be directed into the skull hrough the loramen lacerum orbitale, or from the back part of the neck, between the first and second num" Tr''";"' ^"'^ ''r'^'' foramen mag num The extent to which the instrument has penetrated cannot generally be ascertained ; and It has sometimes happened that the external wound has become completely healed, whilst de- structive mischief lurked within the cranium In the C/mique Chirurgicale of Baron Larrev the case of a grenadier is mentioned, who durin-r the escape from Moscow received the stroke of a lance from a Russian soldier at the posterior part of the head. The instrument passed deeply into the skull in the direction of the posterior lobe of the brain. The man recovered, but with the loss of the functions of most of his organs of sense, l-iis intellect remained unimpaired, and his limbs were but slightly affected, there being a triflinff paralysis. His voice became hoarse and was gra- dually lost. His hearing, taste, and smell became impaired ; the muscles attached to the larynx being paralysed, this organ was depressed half an inch below its natural level. From the difficulty he experienced in drawing the air throu-rh the larynx m inspiration, he was obliged by a sudden action to raise the larynx and pharynx, and to gulp the air something after the manner of a freer m the act of breathing; the diaphragm being also partially paralysed. Lairey presented him to the Philomathic Society, and tlie man was nearly choked whilst his jaws were held apart durino. his examination by that learned bodj-. The mus" cular structure of the pharynx, cesophagus, and stomach, were partially paralysed, as deglutition was accomplished with difliculty, and vomitinir could not be excited. The pulse was slow and feeble, indeed scarcely perceptible. But his in- tellect remained unimpaired, and he wrote all his answers to questions put to him. Larrey also mentions another instance of punc- tured wound of the cranium through the right orbit, inducing paralysis and other signs of cere- bral injury, and this patient survived beyond the third month after the injury. The course of the instrument was indicated after death by an oblique canal which traversed the right hemisphere, and, entering the left, passed over the left optic nerve, injuring the root of the right, and was arrested at the floor of the left lateral ventricle. The canal was lined by a thin coagulum of blood. The orbital plate of tlie frontal bone, from its position and extreme thinness, is liable to punc- tured fracture. We have seen this accident as the result of the introduction of the prongs of pitchforks in agricultural labourers. In one case a man was drawn up from the hold of a ship in consequence of the hook attached to a basket of coals having given waj' and entered the or- bit ; these bodies, necessarily directed upwards, enter the skull through the orbital plate of tlie frontal bone, passing lirst through the skin of the upper eyelid, or through the conjunctiva; the brain is generally penetrated, and the consequences al- most invariably fatal. In these cases a surgeon may be deceived as to the extent of the injury, for the wound is small, and in some instances