178 - ANEURISM. ing returned with great pain. At length, as Sir Astley conceived that there was no prospect of the limb becoming useful again, it was amputated. Upon an examination of the parts, he found that the femoral artery, below the place of the ligature, had been conveying blood. It does now and then happen (says he), that a blood-vessel will arise from the artery close above the ligature, and pass into the artery immediately below it, by which means the circulation is produced. Sir Astley then referred to a specimen in the hospital museum, ■where this fact is illustrated in the brachial artery (See Lancet, vol. i. p. 298.) Mr. Jeffreys had ! gardener under his care in St. George's Hospital, who had been operated upon by Mr. Gunning for a popliteal aneurism four years previously, and Avhich appeared to have been cured; but the tu- mor returned a few weeks before the patient's re-admission. The limb was amputated, but the result was fatal. In the post mortem examination, the femoral artery was found obliterated for the space of half an inch, at the part where the liga- tm-e had been applied four years previously; and immediately below the impervious part, two branches, ec^ual to half the diameter of the femoral artery, were observed to enter the continuation of that trunk. It was inferred, that the circulation through the aneurism had never been wholly sus- pended, and that the disease was a reproduction of the original tumor. (See Guthrie, On Dis. of the Arteries, p. 157.) The external iliac artery was taken up by Mr. Norman of Bath, for the cure of _ an inguinal aneurism ; and when the collateral circulation was fully established a few days after the operation, the tumor was again supplied with blood in suffi- cient quantity to produce a distinct pulsation ; " a fact (say^ Mr. Norman) of practical importance, as it shows, that though the ligature on the iliae artery stops the direct influx of blood into the tumor, and is the means by which the disease is cured, yet that there exists a necessity for employ- ing strict rest, the antiphlogistic regimen, and, in some cases, the abstraction of blood, to assist na-^ ture in her operation of obliterating the aneurism." And, in another instance, after the same gentleman had tied the femoral artery for the cure of popliteal aneurism, the pulsation, though stopped for a time in the tumor, afterwards recurred in such a de- that much doubt was entertained whether the gree, v.u,., - disease would have been cured by the ligature on the femoral artery, had not continued and rather powerful pressure been adopted. {Med. Chi Trans, vol. x. p. 99, 118, &c.) Mr. Briggs also had a case exemplifying the recurrence of a pop liteal aneurism some time after an apparent cure by the operation, and the successful employment of pressure on the artery in bringing about a per- manent stoppage of the renewed pulsation, and the removal of the tumor. (See Guthrie, On Dis of the Arteries, p. 157.) Another instance of the good effect of this practice, I shall presently notice: it was in a case under Mr. Listen. [The continuance or return of pulsation in the sac after the ligature of an artery, is an interesting phenomenon. In most of the cases in which it has occurred, a thrill or pulsation has been felt in the artery within twenty-four hours after the applica tion of the ligature. In other instances it has not occurred until a month or six weeks have elapsed, and in a few examples not until after some months have passed, when a secondary aneurism has formed. The aneurismal sac may slowly and gradually en- large, without pulsation, after the application of the ligature, owing to the influx of regurgitant blood. Recurrent pulsation usually ceases of itself. Should it not do so, the application of a compress or bandage will usually suffice to ensure the con- solidation of the aneurism. If it recur at a late period, constituting a secondary aneurism, there would probably be no resource but amputation. Suppurative sloughing of the aneurismal sac after the application of the ligature, is chiefly apt to occur when the disease is seated in the axiUa, groin, or neck. It may prove fatal by the occur- rence of secondary hemorrhage. When an aneurism has suppurated or burst, the patient is in danger of dying from the immediate occurrence of hemorrhage from the sac. Should this not supervene at once, a tour- niquet should be applied around the limb, and the sac being cleared of all coagula, and freely laid open, must be methodically plugged from the bottom, and a graduated compress firmly applied over it. In this way the bleeding may be checked and permanently arrested. Should it still recur, the actual cautery should be applied. The attempt to confine and to secure the bleeding vessel by a ligature has, I believe, ever been attended by suc- cessful results. Gangrene of the limb may happen either from the large size of the aneurismal tumor compressing, and thus interfering with the circulation through the anastomosing vessels, or else by an obstruction being occasioned by the release of the venous blood in consequence of the incorporation of the contiguous vein on the wall of the sac. Sometimes it may occur from erysipelas, or from the tendons of an inflamed sac. Under such circumstances, incision of the sac, and letting out the contents, has saved the limb. But when gangrene has once fairly set in, there is no resource but amputation high up.] With respect to the circumstance of hemorrhage being more likely to follow, when the ligature is placed close below, than at some distance from a great collateral artery, there cannot be a doubt of the fact. M. Roux, when in London, saw an oc- currence of this kind himself, and has published it in his book. ■ It was a case in which Sir Astley Cooper tied the external iliac artery ; but the pa- tient died of hemorrhage a fortnight afterwards, and, on opening the body, it was ascertamed that the obturator artery, which usually arises either from the trunk of the internal iliac, or from the epigastric, proceeded from the external iliac, and arose immediately above the point to which the ligature was applied. (See ParaMe de la Ch,r Anqloise avee la Chir. Franfoise, ^ c. p. .J<B, From a preparation, spoken of by Mr. Xravers, from others indiflerent museums, especially m that of the University College, and from some expe- riments which were m^^^e, it would appear that the presence of a collateral branch hinde the formation of the internal coagulum, but w 11 not always prevent the closure ol the vessel by the adhesive inflammation. In the preP»ral.on refeire.l to by Mr. Travers, a ligature ^vas app led o external iliac, between the ^P'S't"V n Ton a^t Ilex iliac arteries, "and having t-^" ^"^^^^^^^^^ with the former at the angle which it makes at its