BANDAGE the parts. The)' are made of linen, cotton, or flnn- iicl. If possil)le, tliey should be without a seam, or selvage, which is likel}' to cause unequal and painful pressure. [When elasticity rather than firm support is required, rollers made of cotton web may be era- ployed. India rubber bandages may also be pro- cured of every degree of strength and firmness. But the necessity for bandages is now in many cases done away with by the manufacture of elastic supports, made to fit accurately the part affected, as in the elastic stockings for varicose veins, elastic abdominal supports, &c. The spiral elastic manu- facture of M. Bourjeaurd deserves especial mention and commendation.] In particular cases, a bandage should have a degree of firmness that does not belong to the materials usually employed. This circumstance is exemplified in hernia,and in all examples in which there is occasion for inelastic bandages. As already observed, linen, flannel, and cotton (calico), are the common materials. The first employment of flannel bandages is imputed to tlie Scotch surgeons, who preferred them to linen ones, in consequence of their being better calculated for absorbing mois- ture, while, being more elastic, they yield in a greater degree in cases requiring this property ; as in the swelling subsequent to dislocations, frac- tures, &c. It has been asserted, that linen is bet- ter than flannel, because more cleanly ; but neither one nor the other will continue clean, unless care be taken to change it often enough. Where the indication is to keep the parts warm, flannel is of course preferable both to linen and c.ilico. In applying a bandage, care must be taken that it be put on tight enough to fulfil the object in view, without running any risk of stopping the cir- culation, or doing harm in any other way. If it be not sufficiently tight to support the parts in a proper manner, it is useless ; if it be too tense, it will produce swelling, inflammation, and even mortification. In order to apply a roller skilfully, the part which is to be covered must be put in its proper situation and position, while the head of the roller is held in the surgeon's hand, and only so much unrolled as is necessary for the commencement of the application. In general, the bandage should be applied in such a manner as will admit of its being most conveniently removed, and allow the state"of the subjacent parts to be examined, as often as occa- sion may require, with the least possible disturb- ance of them^. Thus, when a brokc-n leg is placed on M'Intyre's apparatus, three rollers may be em- ployed. One is applied to keep the knee steady ; another to maintain the foot and lower part of the limb motionless; while the central one covers the fracture, and can be taken off, so as to let the frac- ture be examined, or a wound dressed, without any occasion to meddle with the other pieces of bandage, or disturb the fracture in the slightest degree. For the same reason, in fractures of the leg and thigh, th(^cightocn-tailod bandage is often preferred to a simple roller. The former may he loosened and tightened at |ileasm-e, without occasioning the smallest (listnrbatice of the affected limb ; a thing which could not be done were a common roller to be employed in the ordinary way, with ordinary splints, ^ ■ As soon ns the bnndngo has fulfilled the object 299 for which it is applied, and it has become useless, Its employment should be discontinued ; for, by remaining too long on parts, it may obstruct the circulation, diminish the tone of the compressed fibres and vessels, and thus do serious harm. Bandages are either simple or compound. They are also sometimes divided into general and parti- cular. The latter often derive their names from the parts to which they are usually applied. A simple bandage is a long piece of linen or cotton, of an indefinite length, and from one to six inches in breadth. When about to be applied, it is commonly rolled up, and the rolled part is termed its head. When rolled up from each end, it is called a double-headed roller or bandage. The chief of the simple bandages are the circu- lar, the spiral, the relaining, and the expellent. The circular bandage is the simplest ; consist- ing merely of a few circles of a roller covering or overlapping each other. The spiral bandage is the most frequently used of all; for it is this which is seen in such common employment on the limbs, in cases of ulcers, va- rices, fractures, &c. In applying a common roller to the whole of a limb, the bandage must be car- ried round the part spirally; for otherwise the whole member cannot be covered. When the leg IS the part, the surgeon is to begin by sur- rounding the foot with a few turns. Then carry- ing the head of the bandage over the instep, he is to convey it backward, so as to make the bandage unroll, and apply itself just above the heel. The roller may next be brought over the inner ankle • thence again over the instep, and under the sole ; and the surgeon then brings the bandage spirally upward once more to the outer part of the leg. After this, every circle of the roller is to be applied so as to ascend up the limb in a gradual, spiral form, and cover about one-third of the turn of the roller immediately below it. The unequal diame- ter of_ the limb is one great cause, which brings into view the nnskilfulness of a surgeon in this operation ; for it prevents the roller from Ivine smoothly, although spirally applied, unless a par- ticular artifice be dexterously adopted. The plan alluded to IS, to double back the part of the roller that would not be even, were the application to be continued m the coinuion spiral way without this manoeuvre. When the bulk of the limb increases very suddenly it is sometimes necessary to fold, or as it is termed, reverse every circle of the bandng'e in the above manner, in order to make it lie evenly on the limb. It is manifest that the pressure of the roller will be greatest where the duplicatures are situated ; and hence, when it is an object to com- press any particular part, the surgeon should con- trive to reverse the turns of the bandage just over the situation where most pressure is desirable When a roller is to be applied to the fore-arm, It IS ol en best to put a few of the first turns of i ' round the hand. Particular caie must he taken not to make the bandage very tight, if it be intended to wet it alterwards with any lotion ; for moisture always renders it still more tense. Mr. .rohn Bell describes the principal purposes for which a roller has been employed, as follows • Although, in recent wounds, it is with plasters and sntnres that we unite the parts point to point, .vet It IS with the bandage that we support the limb, preserve the parts in continual and perfect