70 AMPUTATION, [Amputation by Elliptical Incision.] [ The elliptical method, as described by M. Soupart, is not dissimilar in its results to a single flap am- putation. An elliptical incision is made round the limb through the integuments down to the muscles. The two ends of the ellipse are of course on oppo- site sides of the member, and one is necessarily at a considerably higher level than the other. The upper end should be opposite to, or a little below, the point at which the bone is to be sawn, or where the trans- verse incision would be made in the single flap operation ; its lower end should be at the same level as the lower border of the flap would be, in a similar case. The muscles are then to be divided in the same oblic^ue direction from the surface down towards the bone or bones. The result is a single large flap, the edges of which are uninterruptedly continuous with the opposite portion of the incision, instead of forming an angle with it on each side, as in the ordinary method. M. Malgaigne observes that this plan merits a decided preference over the usual operation with a single flap, in those situations where the bones occupy nearly all the transverse diameter of the limb; and where the ordinary operation with a single flap occasions a loss of substance at the two extremities of this diameter at which point there is all the greater need to preserve the integuments intact, to avoid denudation of the bones. {Manuel de MM. Oper. ed. 5. p. 248.) From the mode in which its vessels are divided, a flap thus made would also have the advantage of being better nourished than one cut in the usual way by transfixion; and the risk of sloughing, which always attaches, more or less, to a single large flap with a limited basis of attachment, would be considerably diminished.] [Comparison of the Flap and Circular Methods.] Although the majority of surgeons in England and France (see Velpeau, Nouv. Mem. t. i. p. 510) regard the operation by a circular incision as the most eligible under ordinary circumstances, no doubt can exist about the preference which should be given to amputating with a flap, in particu- lar examples. The choice. Dr. Bushe conceives, ought to depend on the state of the limb and nature of the malady. " One surgeon is so devoted to the double circular incision, that he performs no other (method), though his coadjutor in the same hos- pital is equally bigoted to the double flap operation and never amputates but after this manner. But the unprejudiced practitioner will look to the nature of the case, and adjust metins accordingly." {Lancet, No. 246, p. 204.) Notwithstanding the profession of this doctrine, however, Dr. Bushe is in reality very partial to flap amputations, affirm- ing that there is only one part, viz. the upper third of the leg, where he would recommend the double circular incision to be preferred. (Op. cit p. 207.) At the same time, he confesses that when the arm is much emaciated, and flaccid Dupuytren's mode, with a single circular incision is that to which he has himself given the prefer Pie admits, also, the frequency of tedious and sinuses after flap amputations, ence. suppuration •, . r , ,■ which evils, however, he ascribes to tlic fault of making the flaps too long (p. 206). Flap putation of the thigh occupies less time tlian the circular method, and, I believe, has the important advantage of being less exposed to the danger of a protrusion of the bone. Hence, whenever any reasons exist in the state of the parts or the con- stitution for apprehending that disagreeable occur- rence, it should be preferred. An experienced military surgeon informs us, that, in the first years of his practice he performed several amputations by the double incision strictly according to the precepts of Sabatier, Desault, Pelletan, and Pott, but had the mortification to have three cases in which the bone protruded, though the greatest circumspection was used in the operation and after- treatment. Hence he was induced to make trial of the flap amputation; and, although he imitates O'Halloran in not attempting to bring the flaps close together for the first six or eight days, he re- ports that the stump is generally healed in twenty or thirty days, and exfoliations rarely happen, on account of the bone being so well covered. In short, he says, that this method is to be preferred to all others. {J. B. Paroisse, Opiisc. de Chir. p. 185_203, Paris, 1806.) Mr. Sj'me also states, that though the flap amputations seen by him have been numerous, he has never met with an instance of the bone protruding, or exfoliating after them. {Ed. Journ. vol. xiv. p. 38.) [During the last twenty or thirty years there has been much controversy upon the comparative merits of circular and flap amputations. Mr. Lis- ton was a strong partizan of the method by flaps, and never performed any other operation. He did not even describe the circular method, but said that " its inferiority is so obvious, and so ge- nerally acknowledged, that detail of the different steps of the operation is altogether unnecessar)^ It is more tedious in performance, more painful to the patient, does not afford so good a covering for the end of the bone, and consequently not so con- venient and useful support for an artificial limb, and the cure of the wound is protracted. The stump is almost always conical, the end of the bone is, ultimately at least, covered only by integument, and from even very slight pressure this is apt to ulcerate ; exfoliation of bone follows to a greater or less extent," &c. &c. {Elements of Surg. p. 770.) Messrs. Lizars, Syme, and Fergusson have also almost invariably adopted the flap method, and it has been practised, though not so exclusively, by numerous other surgeons. The results of more extended experience of the flap operation have failed to establish that decided superiority which some of its advocates have claimed for it; while in answer to the above remarks by Mr. Liston, and in behalf of the circular metliod, it may now be stated, that rapidity of performance, and the saving of pain to the patient are, since the introduction of ana;sthetics, no longer to be consi- dered as recommendations ; that it is not tme that immediate union is more frequent after the flap than after the circular method ; or, if the circular operation is properly performed, th.-it it is more likely to be followed by protrusion of the bone, or conical stump than the method by flap. Again, it is erroneous to suppose that a thick cushion of soft parts will enable a stump to support much pressure, for under no circumstances (excepting after ankle- joint, and, perhaps, also knee-joint ampuUfous, "wliore the osseous surfaces are hu-gc, and the in- tegument covering them is dense, and has been accustomed to pressure) will the patient be able to