580 DISLO wards. The position and direction of the foot were not materially altered, further than by its projecting considerably on its outer side, and the toes turning slightly outwards, but its dorsum looked upwards, as in the natural condition. On the outer side of tiie foot, the anterior extremity of the 03 calcis, where it unites with the cuboid bone, could be very distinctly felt, whilst above there was a considerable cavity, instead of the prominence formed by the astragalus and external malleolus. By pressing with the fingers on the dorsum of the foot, a cavity could likewise be distinguished behind the posterior margin of the scaphoid bone. On the inner side of the foot was a prominence corresponding to the internal malleolus, of which the inferior margin could be distinctly defined, and anteriorly and inferiorly another projection more prominent, evidently caused by the head of the astragalus, over which the skin was tense, thin, and vesicated. (See Lancet, Oct. 1814. p. 36.) _ A dislocation of the astragalus inwards was dissected by M. Ne'laton, and a representation of it is given by M. Malgaigne. (See pi. xxx. fig. 3.) The foot was displaced outwards, without eversion of the sole, the astragalus was carried inwards and a little forwards, so that its head rested upon the inner surface of the scaphoid. The groove of the neck of the astragalus received the edge of the cavity of the scaphoid; and the posterior angle of the astragalus was engaged in the groove which separates the two articular surfaces of the cal- caneum. There was rupture of that part of the internal lateral ligament which passes from the astragalus to the os calcis, of the interosseous liga- ment, and of the astragalo-scaphoid ligament. The external lateral ligament was entire, but the posterior and external part of the malleolus was torn off, which is equivalent to a rupture of the ligament. Reduction.—In Mr, Cline'a case the dislocation was reduced by fixing the knee, having the thigh bent at a right angle with the body. Extension was then made, by taking hold of the metatarsus and protuberance of the os calcis, and drawing the foot gently and directly from the leg. During the extension, Mr Cline put his knee against the outside of the joint, and the patient's foot being pressed against it, the os calcis and navicular bones slipped into their place, carrying with them the rest of the foot, and the defonnity disappeared. In Mr. Plancock's case the difficulty was much greater. Pressure with the knee against the outer edge of the foot was first tried, and then extension was made with the pulleys, but equally without Buccess. Six days afterwards, an apparatus having been■ constructed fertile purpose of holding the foot firmly during the extension, the pulleys were again applied, and traction was kept up for an hour and a quarter, but no efft^ct was produced till arrangements were made to draw the foot forwards and to press the tibia backwards, when the bone immediately returned into its place. In tiiis case the integuments over the point of pressure, and the internal calcaneo-scaphoid ligament sloughed, and allowed the head of the bone to protrude, It was therefore sawn away, to the extent of about three-quarters of an inch. This patient recovered perfectly, and after a time was able to walk as well as before the accident happened. (&eo Lancet, Oct. S, 1044, p. 35.) The question of treatment in cases of compound dislocation has already been discussed in speakin" of the dislocation forwards.] ° 3. [Dislocation oftli& astragalus oulwards from the OS calcis and scaphoid bone. — This appears to be less frequent than the displacement already described, for M. Malgaigne could only discover four well authenticated examples ; two of which were observed by himself. In three the cause was a fall on the external border of the foot ; in tiie fourth a cart had fallen upon the leg. In all four the tibia and fibula were uninjured. He thus describes the symptoms:—The foot is inverted, its internal border raised, the sole looking inwards, the point turned towards the same side. The head of the astragalus causes a prominence upwards and outwards upon the cuboid, but the body of the bone is also carried outwards with the malleolus externus,and beneath is a depression which testifies to the displacement of the calcaneum inwards. On the inner side, on the contrary, the tibial malleolus is so deeply placed that it can scarcely be felt; beneath it is an elongated projection, caused by the internal border of the os calcis, of which the lesser process can be distinctly felt, and the ancle is widened in consequence. More forward the prominence of the scaphoid can be felt, nearer to the OS calcis than natural, which explains the inclination of the foot inwards. In the two cases seen by M. Malgaigne the dis- location was simple; in both the astragalus was displaced somewhat forwards as well as outwards. In the other two cases, seen by M. Letenneur, the dislocation was compound: in one the head of the astragalus corresponded to the external border of the foot, and protruded entirely through the wound, while posteriorly a portion of its large articular facette could be seen projecting more than an inch beyond the corresponding surface of the os calcis; in the other the head was less prominent, its in- ternal portion being still covered by the integu- ments, but posteriorly the large articular surface had completely quitted the os calcis. The projec- tion of the bodi/ of the astragalus outwards would distinguish this case from that in which the bone is dislocated forwards, but with its Iiead directed obliquely outwards. Reduction.—One of the cases under M. INIal- gaigue was not seen by him till two months after the accident, the dislocation was, therefore, suffered to remain luireduced. The other was reduced by the internes of the Hopital St. Louis in the follow- ing manner, twenty-four hours after the accident, with the aid of chloroform. One held the inferior part of the leg, while another made extension by placing one hand on the heel and the other on the front of the foot; a third then made pressure with his thumbs upon the head of the astragalus to push that bone inwards, backwards, and downwards, raising at the same time the outer border of the foot and canning its point outwards; at the first attempt the bone returned with a snap into its place. In the two cases of compound dislocation under M. Letenneur, reduction was found impractica- ble, and the astragalus was therefore removed. (See Alalgaigne, Traite dcs Fract. t. ii. p. 1045. Letenneur Rev. Med. Chir. 1854, t. xii. p. 19.)] 4. [Dislocation of the astragalus bachvards from tho OS calcis and scaphoid bone.—M. Malgaigne