EAR. 605 Eustachian tube. (See Pli. F. BUmdin in Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Pratiques, t. xii. p. 280.) Wathen's instruments are described in the Pliil. Trans. 1794 ; those of Boyer in Traite des Mai. Chir. t. vi. p. 391 ; those of M. Itard, which de- serve particular notice, in his Traite des Mai. de VOreille ; and those of another modern advocate for this operation, in Did. des Sciences Med. t. xxxviii. p. 108. Tiie latter author, after stating how his tubes, which are four French inches in length, and shaped somewhat like an italic S, are introduced, enuriierates the following as the advantages derived from their employment. 1. Fluid applications may be conveyed into the Eustachian tube, the cavity of the tympanum, and the mastoid cells, and deeply seated obstinate ulcerations within these parts cured. 2. The same parts can be cleared from any mucus by which they are ob- structed. 3. Blood extravasated within the tym- panum, from blows on the head, can be washed out. 4. Chalky substances, which sometimes form in the tympanum, maj^ be brought out in the same manner. 5. Through the tube a stilet can be passed into the Eustachian tube, so as to perforate a congenital septum, or any cicatrix, obstructing the entrance of that passage. 6. When the sensi- bility of the auditory nerve is dull, the effect of fluids, thrown into the tympanum, can be tried. (See also T. Buchanan's Engraved Represeiitation of the Anatomy of the Human Ear, p. 28, fol. Hull, 1823.) [Mr. Toynbee, in his recent treatise on the Diseases of the Ear, has shown that the Eustachian tube is shut except during the momentary act of swallowing, during which act the air can be heard to enter the tympanic cavity by means of the otoscope, if the mouth and nose are closed. The Eustachian catheter as a means of diagnosis is con- sequently not needed.] 13. Of perforating the Mastoid Process. Of all the cases of deafness for which Arneraann and others have recommended this operation, that attended with an abscess and caries of this process is the only one, in which the practice is now at all sanctioned. An instance is related by Jasser, in which the carious surface of the right mastoid pro- cess was exposed by an incision, and an opening detected with a probe. An injection was thrown into the aperture with a syringe, when, to the astonishment of Jasser and his patient, the fluid gushed out of the right nostril. The plan was repeated for a few days, and at the end of three weeks, the part was healed, and the hearing greatly improved. This success induced Jasser to make a perforation in the left mastoid process, the ear on that side being deaf, and to employ the injec- tion, which was also discharged from the left nostril. The hearing, liowever, was not so com- pletely restored in this as it had been in the right ear ; but the wound healed up without any ex- foliations, {■/ourn. de Med. Fev. \79S.) The idea of perforating the mastoid process was suggested long before tlie time of .Tasser. Iliolan, in various part."! of his works, mentions the propriety of making a small perforation in several cases of deafness, and tinnitus aurium, attended with ob- struction of the Eustachian tube. Rolfincius also advised a similar opening to be made in the mas- toid process with a trocar, in cases of dropsy of the cavity of the tympanum and of the mastoid cells. Jasser, however, was the first who actually made the experiment, and his example was fol- lowed by Hagstroem, whose attempt did not suc- ceed, the completion of the operation having been interrupted by profuse htemorrhage, and no benefit done to the hearing. The injections also appear to have caused, in this instance, alarming symptoms, violent pains in the head, loss of vision, sense of suffocation, and syncope. The fluid entered the mastoid cells, without any of it issuing, either by the nostrils or mouth. (Op. cit.) The operation was successfully tried by Loffler. The injection did not pass into the moulh, yet the hearing was restored, though it was lost again when the wound closed. Hence a new opening was made, and kept from healing by means of a piece of catgut. The patient was afterwards able to hear when his mouth was open. The perforation of the mastoid process was not approved of by Morgagni ; indeed, it must often fail, as both Morgagni and Hagstroem have ob- served, on account of complete bony partitions pre- venting all communications between the mastoid cells ; and sometimes the mastoid process, instead of being cellular, is perfectly solid, an instance of which is recorded by A. Murray. In children, the mastoid cells are but imperfectly developed, and the operation may bring on caries, necrosis, ery- sipelas, &c. (See Blandin in Diet, des Med. et de Chir. Pratiques, t. xii. p. 281.) [The performance of this operation is now wisely never had recourse to except in well-recognised disease of the mastoid cells, and generally to afford an escape for the matter contained in the cells, or for the removal of diseased bone.] 14. Diseases of the LahyrintJt. These are much more diversified than might, at first, be supposed,.and, if we admit the two doubt- ful cases, said to depend upon the state of the lymph of Cotunnius, there are not less than seven different species of disease affecting the labyrinth: —1. Disease of the fenestra ovalis, and fenestra rotunda, as ulceration, thickening, &c. 2. Mal- formation of these apertures. 3. Malformation of the labyrinth. 4. Inflammation of the nervous membrane, which lines its cavities. 5. Alteration of the liquor of Cotunnius. 6. Deficiency of the same fluid. 7. Affections of the nerve of hearing. No doubt deafness (and that kind of it which so frequently foils the most skilful men) often arises from an insensible state of the portio mollis of the auditory nerve, or of the surfaces on which its filaments are spread. This affec- tion is analogous to amaurosis, in which, though every part of the eye may seem to possess its na- tural strnctiu'p, sight is lost, because the rays of light only strike against a paralytic, or insoiisible retina. Mr. Saunders dissected the ears of two deaf patients with the greatest care, but could not discover the least deviation from the natural struc- ture. In the commencement of deafness from a paralytic affection of the auditory nerve, Sir A. Cooper remarked, that the secretion of cerumen was diminished, and, wlien the deafness became worse, was totally suppressed. Aiid anotlier par- ticular symptom of paralysis of the auditory nerve, pointed out by the same author, is the patient's inability to hoar the sound of a watch placed be- tween the incisor teeth. With respect to the causes of a paralytic affec-