CORNEA; 481 A slight, dull, aching paiu. On examining the eye, tiie cornea presents an uniform pale-white opacity, with ju5t sufficient transparency remaining to enable one to see the iris and pupil, but not with such clearness as to show with certainty its colour and condition, although its activity may usually be made out. The surface of the cornea, when closely inspected, is found to be finely granulated, resembling a thin layer of finely-granulated ground glass. The opacity is very generally and equally diffused oyer the cornea, though usually rather thicker towards the centre. But it is difficult to determine the extent to which it penetrates and involves its layers, and in this respect there is probably considerable diversity. The pain is very slight, sometimes altogether wanting, and there is no intolerance of light. One eye is almost in- variably affected in the first instance, and the disease may be limited to the eye first involved ; but more commonlj-, when it has existed some time, and is subsiding, or has just passed away, • the second becomes similarly affected, and runs through the same phases. This is by far the most common form of corneitis. Mr. Jonathan Hut- chinson (OpIilJialmic Hospital Reports, Moorfields; October, 1850, p. ■229) remarks:—" This form of keratitis, respecting which I hope to be able to sustain the proposition that it is almost always a direct result of inherited syphilis, is a well-marked disease, the individuality of which has long been recognised. In Dr. Mackenzie's excellent work, he devotes a section to it imder the name of ' Scrofulous corneitis,' and states that, — 'It is specifically different from every other ophthalmia.' Dr. Jacob, in his Inflammations of the Eyeball, gives a description of it, which, as with all that comes from his pen, bears the stamp of careful observa- tion ; and, more recently, Mr. Dixon, in his work on Diseases of ike Eye, and Mr. Critchett, in his pub- lished Clinical Lectures, have devoted special atten- tion to it. The manner in which, by interstitial de- posit, the cornea is made to assume the appearance of ground glass, the absence of ulceration and of any tendency to pustules; the comparatively small amount of sclerotic and conjunctival congestion— are facts in its history as to which all observers agree. Nor is the testimony of writers much less unanimous as to its being hardly ever met with except between the ages of five and eighteen —as to its almost invariably affecting first one eye and then the other—as to its being of exceedingly slow progress—or, lastly, as to the fact that the ultimate result is almost always very much better than could have been hoped for, judging from the condition of the cornea in its early stages." Al- though I will not make so sweeping an assertion as that interstitial keratitis never occurs excepting in the subjects of inherited taint, yet I cannot con- ceal from myself that such is my present belief. I have proved it now in so many cases, to the full satisfaction of much more able ophthalmic ob- servers than myself, that the attitude which my mind has involuntarily assumed is as just stated. Chronic interstitial keratitis usually commences as a diffuse haziness in tiie centre of the cornea of the eye. There is at this stage no ul- ceration, and exceedingly sliglit evidence of the con- gestion of any tunic. The patient, however, almost always complains of some irritability of the eye, as well as of dim sight. If looked at carefully, the dots of haze are seen to bo in the structure of the cornea itself, and not on either surface; they are also separated from each other, like so many microscopic masses of fog. In the course of a few weeks, or it may be more rapidly, the whole cornea, except- ing a band near its margin, has become densely opaque, by the spreading and confluence of these interstitial opacities. Still, however, the greater density of certain parts—centres, as it were, of the disease—is clearly perceptible. At this stage the comparison to ground glass is very appropriate, and there is almost always a zone of sclerotic con- gestion and more or less intolerance of light, and pain around the orbit. After from one to two months, the other cornea is attacked, and goes through the same stages, but rather faster than the first. A period in which the patient is so far blind that there is but bare perception of light now often follows, after which the eye first affected begins to clear. In the course of a year or eighteen months a very surprising degree of improvement has pro- bably taken place. In mild cases, or under suitable treatment, the duration may be much less than this, and the restoration to transparency may be complete, but in many instances patches of haze remain for years, if not for life. In the worst stage, the corneal surface looks slightly granular, and has lost its polish. In certain cases, after the ground- glass stage is passed, a yet more severe one ensues, in which the whole structure of the cornea becomes pink, or salmon-coloured, from vascularity, at the circumference of which crescentic fringes of vessels are often noticed. In the best recoveries the eye usually remains somewhat damaged as to vision, and often a degree of morbid expansion of the cornea is apparent. Only in one or two cases have I ever observed ulcers of distinguishable size on the surface of the cornea, and I have never seen pustules on any part of it. My reasons for believing that this disease is dependent upon an inherited syphilitic taint are the following:— 1. That in certain instances, patients whom I knew beforehand to be the subjects of inherited disease have, whilst imder observation, been at- tacked by it. 2. That in a large number of other cases I obtained from the parents of the patient a free confession as regards themselves, and a distinct history of specific symptoms in the child during infancy. 3. That in almost all cases the subjects of it present a very peculiar physiognomy, of which a coarse flabby skin, pits and scars on the face and forehead, cicatrices of old fissures at the angles of the mouth, a sunken bridge to the nose, and a set of permanent teeth peculiar for their smallness bad colour and vertically notched edges, are the most striking. 4. That in many cases, one or more of the following suspicious forms of disease have either been coincident with it, or have occurred previ- ously, •—ulcerative lupus, nudes on the bones, psoriasis on the face, otorrhoea, chronic enlarge- ment and subsequent atrophy of the tonsils, ulcers in the throat, a thickened condition of the parts under the tongue, and chronic engorgement of the lymphatic glands. h. That the effect of specific treatment in initigating the severity of these inllamniations and in shortening their duration, is often very maikod, whilst mere tonic or dietetic plana arc of no avail I I