ANEURISM. 197 I'lionias Cost, aged twenty-nine, presented him- selt at the York County Hospital, April 29th, 1817. He was a tall, strong, active bargeman, not cor- pulent, but very muscular. He was enduring great pain from a large, elastic, pulsating tumor, situated under the giutceus of the right side; an obvious aneurism. It had existed about nine months, and was the consequence of a blow from a stone. In a consultation with Dr. Lanson and Dr. Wake, the necessity of the operation was de- termined upon, and it was perfoi-med on the 12th of May, without any material difficulty or inter- ruption, except such as was the consequence of the division of, and bleeding from, the small muscular arteries. Having got command of the internal iliac_ artery within the pelvis, which, says, Mr. Atkinson, required the complete length of the fingers to accomplish, it was tied. Sufficient proof of its being the identical artery was repeatedly ob- tained, by the pressure upon it stopping the pulsa- tion, and causing a subsidence of the tumor. Dr. Wake, Mr. Ward, and all the pupils were finite assured of the circumstance. The artery being then tied, the pulsation of the swelling en- tirely ceased. Some delay in placing the ligature arose from the needle not being sufficiently pli- able ; but, for future operations of this kind, Mr. Atkinson very properly recommends the ligature to lie put round the artery by means of an instrument, resembling a catheter, the wire of which has a little ring at its extremity, and can be pushed out some way beyond the end of the tube. The patient went on tolerably well for some time after the operation ; the pulse never exceeded 130, and after a time sunk to 85 or 90. He be- came exhausted, however, partly by the discharge, and partly by hemorrhage, and died on the 31st of Maj', about nineteen days after the operation. In the dissection, the cavity, on the external part of the peritoneum, in the situation of the incision, ■was completely filled with coagulated blood. " The ligature, on moving a part of this (blood) with a sponge, readily followed it, and, without doubt, had been disengaged for some days." The internal iliac, which appeared to have been tied, had sepa rated about an inch and a half from the bifurcation with the external iliac. By "separated," I con elude Mr. Atkinson means, that the upper part of the internal iliac was separated from the continuation of the same vessel. (See Medical and Phys. Joiirn. vol. xxxviii. p. 2G7, &c.) Although this gentleman has not given a very clear account of some part of the dissection, and he has also omitted to describe the place of his external in- cision, or the exact parts which ho divided in the operation, yet I think that all the circumstances of the case, taken together, leave not the smallest doubt of the internal iliac artery having been actu- ally tied. The complete stoppage of the pulsation as soon as the ligature was applied, and the testi- mony of several respectable practitioners who were present, remove, indeed, all ambiguity. The profession is much indebted to Mr. Atkinson for this important communication, which was in some measure required, in order to confirm Mr. Stevens's similar case, as it is well known that some distin- guished anatomists and surgeons in this metropolis formerly expressed strong doubts of the practicable nature of the operation. The internal iliac artery has since been tied with the late Emperor Alexander settled a pension, as a reward for the skill displayed in the treatment of the case. (See Averill's Operative Surgery, p. 39.) The operation of tying the internal iliac was also of Barbadoes, who parts to Sir Astley success by an army surgeon in lUissia, upon whom performed by Mr. Thomas, sent the preparation of the Cooper, and it is in the Museum of Guy's Hospitaf. {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvi. p. 230.) A fifth in- stance of the application of a ligature to the internal iliac artery took place in the practice of Mr. Hudson, of New York. (See A mcrican Jourv. of Med. Sciences of Feb. 1828, art. v. p. 304.) A semilunar incision, seven inches in length, was made with its convexity towards the ilium, from the vicinity of the umbilicus to that of the abdominal ring. After dividing the parietes of the abdomen, and tying some arteries which bled, the peritoneum was pushed upwards and inwards, and the handle of a scalpel passed under the trunk of the internal iliac artery, which was tied an inch below its origin. The patient recovered. [Since Stevens's case, the internal iliac has been ligatured six times; of these seven cases, four re- covered,aud three died ; a very considerable amount of success when we take into consideration the depth at which the vessel is situated, the size of the trunk, and its proximity to the centre of the cir- culation.] It^ is very justly observed by M. Velpeau, that the ligature of the internal iliac artery, with regard to its influence on the circulation, is in reality less serious than that of the external iliac, or even the femoral. In fact, it leaves undisturbed all the vessels appertaining to the corresponding limb, while the great pelvic arteries anastomose with one another so freely, that, when one is obliterated, an abundance of blood is promptly conveyed by the others to the organs which the obliterated one is de- signed to nourish. But the ligature of the internal iliac artery is dangerousin another point of view: first, on account of the difficulties in its performance ; and secondly, on account of the unavoidable detachment of parts from one another which are connected to- gether by a large quantity of loose cellular tissue, a texture in wliich inflammation and suppuration are disposed to spread to a great extent. (See Vel- peau, Nouv. Elcm. de Med. Oper. t. i. p. 185.) In a modern publication are given a few parti- culars of a case, which was supposed to be an aneurism of the gluteal artery, and cured by means of pressure, a light vegetable diet, gentle laxatives, and digitalis. (See Trans, of the Fel- lows, S,-c. of the Kiny's and Queen's College of Physicians in Ireland, vol. i. p. 41. 8vo. Dub. '817.) From the very imperfect account here given of the tumor, it is impossible to form any conclusion respecting its nature. Mr. Mayo also briefly mentions a case which was believed to be a aneurism of the gluteal artery, and which got well without an operation. (^Outlines of Pathology.) •' Sandilort has recorded an instance of an nncu- risra of the internal iliac artery itself. (See Tabula: Anatomicm cjc. Praicedit Obs. de Ancurysniate Jltacai tnternce rariorc ischiadis A'ervosai Fol. Lugd. 1804.) A rteriie causa, Anbuiiism nitQuiaiNo Lioatuue ofthecommon li/iAc Ahtkhv. Professor Gibson had occasion to put a lignttiio ■ound the common iliac artery, in an examido of o 3 '