166 ANEURISM, ment, for the cure took place not by galvano- puncture alone, but in some by the conjoined influence of compression and the application of ice; and in others, as the result of inflammation and suppuration of the sac. There are, consequently, only two cases in which the cure can clearly be attributable to this means alone, and without the occurrence of any serious accident. When we compare the galvano-puncture with ligature or compression, in the treatment of ex- ternal aneurism, it is, I think, impossible to hesitate for a moment in giving a decided preference to the latter modes of treatment. Not only is the jprin- ciple on which it is attempted to procure oblitera- tion of the sac in galvano-puncture a vicious and peculiarly dangerous one, viz. by the coagulation of the blood, and the inflammation of the wall of the sac ; but the results that have hitherto been obtained by this method are not such as would justify a prudent surgeon in submitting his patient to experiments of this kind, when he possesses so certain and comparatively safe a mode of cure as that by deligation or compression. In internal aneurisms, or in those cases in which the disease is so situated at the root of the neck, that the artery can neither be ligatured with safety or com- pressed, galvano-puncture may perhaps be em- ployed with some advantage, in conjunction with proper medical treatment. The injection of aneurismal sacs with a solution of the perchloride of iron has also of late been practised, with the view of coagulating their con- tents, but such treatment is not only coarse and ■unscientific, but dangerous ; and when compared with the ligature or compression of the artery leading to the sac, must be looked upon as a retro- grade step in surgery.] Lisfranc is acquainted with several cases m which ice was tried, either alone, or in combination with general means and compression. The suc- cesses were nearly equal to the failures ; so that, according to Lisfranc, experience ascribes a good deal of efficacy to this treatment. _ He refers, how- ever, to some recent investigations made by M. Moulinie', principal surgeon of the Hopital St. Andre, at Bordeaux, which give a very diflterent view of the subject. (See Lisfranc, Des diverges MUthodes pour POblile-raiion des Arllres, p. 25.) The latter surgeon is, on the whole, rather in favour of the practice: he observes, that in all the ex- amples in the Bordeaux Hospital, the application of ice was not aided by other means ; and that it was tried without discrimination. When an aneu- rism is free from pain, and is neither inflamed nor too large, he thinks that the plan can hardly pro- duce any dangerous effects. In order not to occasion sloughing, he advises the use of ice to be suspended every two or three hours or oftener. When the swelling is large, the parts very tense, their texture changed, and the skin thin, the prac- tice is likely to accelerate the formation of a slough ; and Brescliet confirms a remark made by Mr. Hodgson, that some patients cannot continue this treatment beyond a few minutes, while others find it absolutely insupportable. {Pr. Transl. of Mr. J/odffsou\ Work t. i. p. 212—229.) After all, the means, most to be depended upon, for curing aneurisms, is tying the artery above the tumor. This more certainly prevents tlie great ingress of blood into the sac, and, what is quite as important, more certainly excites adhesive inflam- mation within the tied part of the vessel, and, by holding the opposite sides of it steadily in contact, brings about their union and an obliteration of the tube of the vessel with tolerable regularity. The chief current of blood into the sac is thus stopped, the contents of the aneurism arc afterwards gradu- ally absorbed, and the tumor dwindles away in proportion. The natural course of the blood being now permanently interrupted in the arterial trunk, it passes more copiously into the col- lateral branches ; and these enlarging and anas- tomosing with others, which originate from the large arteries beyond the obstruction, the necessary circulation is carried on. (See Anastomosis.) According to Scarpa, the circumstances chiefly preventive of success, especially in the popliteal and femoral aneurisms, are the following: rigidity, atony, or disorganisation of the principal anasto- moses, between the superior and inferior arteries of the ham and leg ; sometimes depending on ad- vanced age, or on it, togetlier ivilh the large size of the aneurism, ivhich, hy long-continued pressure, has caused a great change in the neighbouring parts; or sometimes on steatomatous, ulcerated, earthly, cartilaginous disorganisation of the proper coats of the artery, not confined to the seat of the rupture, but extending a great way above and below the aneurism, and also to the principal articular arteries, and, occasionally, to portions of the whole track of the superficial femoral artery. In such circumstances, the ligature is apt to fail in closing the trunk of the artery ; and, if it should succeed, the state of the anastomosing vessels \yiil not admit of a sufficient quantity of blood being conveyed into the lower part of the limb. Hence, when the patient is much advanced in life, languid, and sickly ; when the internal coat of the artery is rigid, and incapable of being united by a ligature ^ when the aneurism is of long standing, and con- siderable size, with caries of the os femons, or tibia; when the leg is weak and cold, much swelled, heavy,andosdematous:—Scarpa considers the operation contra-indicated. I must, however, declare in this place, that I have seen large aneu- risms as well as aneurisms in persons of advanced a-re, cured by the Hunterian plan; and, witli respect to the affection of the bones, though it may be an unfavourable circumstance, its conse- quences are generally less serious than those of ordinary caries. In the articles HEMORRHAGE and Ligature, I have described the effects of the ligature upon a tied artery, and particularly the various processes which arise from its application, and terminate in the permanent obliteration of the vessel. There, I have explained what are the best ligatures for use, as well as the safest manner of applying tlieni. Confining myself at present to what expressly relates to aneurism, I shall merely annex the fol- lowinc Reneral directions:— , i. Fiilt The cord should be thin and round, such a ligature being most likely to eff-ect a clean divi- sion of the internal and middle coats of the vessel, and not liable to produce extensive ulceration or slou-^hing. Lisfranc and others, who apprehend that a very thin silk ligature may make its way to° rapidly through the external coat, prefer .a strcn.g rolind" thread, or several united together, the flat- tened form being avoided. (Lisfranc, "P-<^''; P" ^r^^ Secondly, The ligature should be tigh , in order to insure the complete division of the internal and