^•^0 ERYSIPELAS. Dr. Wells was also an advocate for the treatment recommended by Fordvce. [The tincture of sesquicliloride of iron has been recomineiided of late years by Dr. Ranking and others. The reviser has seen it of eminent service in an apparently hopeless case of puerperal fever with diphtheritis, which he attended in consultation with Dr. Frere, and in which, when the patient seemed evidently dying, she recovered under the use of this tincture in immense doses—one or two teaspoon- fuls every two hours. Of local measures the most important in the phlegmonous and diffuse erysipelas are incisions, which, relieve the tension, give vent to exuda- tions and to blood, and hinder the exudations, which, as James says, are neither walled in by adhesions, nor discharged by pointing, from spread- ing and contaminating sound parts. The older surgeons, if men of genius, always used them, more or less. Le Dran is very explicit: " Of a yan- grene proceeding from an erysiiJelas,'" he says, " the fluids fermenting require a larger space to act in, and the skin being of too close a texture to yield immediately to this increased bulk, will compress the parts which it contains, hence the adipous parts mortify, and a putrid serum diffuses itself over the limb." In this case, he continues, we must discharge the putrid serum by incisions. These, he says, should be made right through the diseased parts to the quick ; and they should be carried lengthwise into the inflamed part sur- rounding the gangrene. They should be about two inches long, and an inch distant. If neces- sarj--, others may be made below, but rising par- tially into the intervals. {Le Dran, ira?islaied by Gailaher. Lond. 1752.) Baron Boyer gave the same advice. {Traitc des Mai. Cliir. t. ii. p. 22.)] It is, however, one thing to propose a remedy ; quite a different, but equal credit belongs to him, who without being the first discemer, yet is the first to obtain universal sanction and the stamp of authority for it. This credit belongs to Mr. Cop- land Hutchinson, formerly surgeon to the Naval Hospital at Deal, where seafaring men are very liable toplilegmonous erysipelas of the legs, ascribed to the irritation of the salt water, and the friction of their loose coarse trousers. In this description of patients, the disease frequently proceeds rapidly to the gangrenous state, and tlie consequence is the loss of manj"- lives and limbs. Even when the danger of mortification is avoided, abscesses often occur, which spread between the muscles and under the integuments to a surprising extent: " from the ankle to the trochanter, and over the glutaci muscles." In the first few cases which came under the care of Mr. Hutchinson, this gen- tleman's plan of treatment, in addition to the usual medical means, consisted of local bleeding by means of cupping glasses, followed bj' fomenta- tions. Subsequently, however, he adopted the method of making several free' incisions with a scalpel on the inflamed surface, in a longitudinal direction, through the integuments, and down to tho muscles, as early in the disease as possible, and before any secretions had taken place. These incisions were about an inch and a half in length, two or three inches apart, and varied in number from six to eighteen, according to the extent of surface which the disease is found to occupy. Mr. Hutchinson states, that these incisions wi'll yield between fifteen and twenty ounces of blood, and give relief to the tense skin, at the same time that they form channels for the escape of fluid, and the prevention of bags of matter. After the operation, fomentations, or saturnine lotions were employed. ' By the preceding kind of treatment, Mr Hutchinson found the fatal termination of the disease rendered less frequent, and gangrenous mischief wholly prevented. He adds that he never lost a case in the Deal Hospital for the last hve years, during which the practice was followed. (See Med. Ghir. Trans., 1814, vol. v. p. 278, &c.) Instead of several moderate cuts, Mr. Law- rence thought the most powerful means of arresting the complaint was making one or more lon-r in- cisions through the inflamed skin and the subjacent adipous and cellular textures. These incisions, he asserts, are followed very quickly by relief of the pain and tension ; and this alleviation of suffering, he assures us, is accompanied by a corresponding interruption of the inflammation, whether it be in the stage of effusion, or in the more advanced period of suppuration and sloughing. Mr. Law- rence further maintains, that this treatment is employed _ to the greatest advantage at the be- ginning, since it prevents the further extension of inflammation, and the occurrence of suppuration and sloughing. At a more advanced stiige the incisions limit the extent of suppuration and gan- grene ; and, at a still later time, they afford "the readiest outlet for matter and sloughs, and faci- litate the commencement and progress of granu- lation and cicatrisation. {Med. Cliir. Trans, vol xiv. p. 67, &c.) Respecting the treatment by incisions, Mr. Sa- muel Cooper thus delivered his judgment in the earlier editions of this Dictionary. That the prac- tice of incisions with moderation and judgment has been the means of saving many limbs and lives, I consider as fully established as the op- posite fact, that immoderate incisions have occa- sionally accelerated the patient's death. I have heard of instances in which a cut was made from the shoulder down to the hand, or from the trochanter major to the foot. Whoever looks over tlie reports of the consequences of incisions of immoderate length, as detailed in the Lancet and other works, cannot fail to be struck with the following facts: — Several patients, treated in this wajr, instead of being saved, went out of the world in a very sudden manner, some- times from the shock of an enormous wound on the constitution in its disturbed state ; sometimes from profuse hremorrliage. In one or two inst.nnces, the cutaneous nerves, as well as large veins and arteries, were not spared, and a partial par.ilysis ensued, I know of more than one case in which the pa- tient died of luxMnorrhage in a few minutes after an immoderate incision had been made. Dr. M'Dowel, a decided advocate of free incisions, candidly re- lates the following fact:—" The following "case (says he) I witnessed ten years since ; and at a more remote period than this, incisions in phlegmo- noid er^-sipelas were constantly practised. A strong and health}' 3-oniig man had severe phlegnio- noid erysipelas of the leg, after an injury of the patellar bursa. The limb, from the foot to half waj' up the thigh, was enormously swollen, ex- tremely tense and painful. There was high inflammatory fever. A free incision was made in