709 FRACTURE. lumbar region with projection backwards of the spinous process and paralysis, in which he en- deavoured to remedy the displacement which was presumed to exist, by fixing tlie upper part of the body on an inclined plane and raising the lumbar region by cushions placed beneath it, so as to em- ploy at the same time direct extension and pres- sure. The attempt appears to have succeeded, for the paralysis shortly disappeared and the patient recovered. (See Trait£ ties Fractures, c^o. t. i. p. 423.) i Mr. Tuson has also recorded two cases success- fully treated in the Middlesex Hospital by exten- sion. In the first there was irregularity and displace- ment of the last cervical and first dorsal vertebrae, with complete paralysis and priapism. " Upon extension being steadily used, by the head being fixed, and the legs gradually and progressively pulled, complete power of motion and sensation all at once returned as usual. He said he was quite right, and pulled up both his legs and kicked them about in every direction. The priapism soon ceased." He suffered from numbness in the arms and legs, and also from pain at the back of his neck, but was able to leave the hospital at tlie end of three weeks, and in another month is said to have been perfectly well. In the second case, a depression was felt in the situation of one of the cervical vertebras, with in- distinct crepitus, but the history is not so satis- factory, as the man was insensible when admitted. Extension was made as in the last case, and during its use the breathing, whicli had previously been difficult, rapidly improved. Foiurteen ounces of blood were taken from the arm, and he shortly became sensible and began to move himself about. Sensation, however, did not return for some hours afterwards. In two days this man was able to leave the hospital and go to his business. (See Medical Times, vol. x. 1844, p. 381.) ] If, after a certain time, circumstances justify the suspicion of inflammation of the spinal cord, and the state of the pulse will admit of the practice, venesection should be employed ; but, inasmuch as cupping the part near the injury could not be performed without turning the patient, and disturb- ing the fracture, I deem it always unadvisable. The same remark applies to leeches. I believe with Sir Benjamin Brodie, however, that it ia a great mistake to suppose that bleeding is always proper. " In the majority of cases, the state of the pulse is such as actually to contra^indicatc the abstraction of blood ; and the blood, when drawn, does not in general present those appearances which are supposed to mark the existence of in- flammation." {Sir B. Drodie, in Med. Cliir. Trans. vol. XX. p. 1G2.) Neither does blood-lotting seem to this gentleman to arrest the process of softening and dissolution of the spinal cord, but, on the con- trary, to accelerate it. Keeping the vertebral column perfectly motion- less is an indication plainly presenting itself, and the best mode of fulfilling it is to let the patient lie steadily on his back. When the patient is affected with a flatulent distension of the abdomen, vomiting, hiccough, &c. the belly may be rubbed with camphorated lini- ment < and purgative or turpentine clysters and antispasmodics given. In all cases in wliicli the lower part of the body is paralytic the catheter is necessary. " It does not, however, prevent the urine becoming alkaline, nor the secretion of adhesive mucus from the lining membrane of the bladder. When these changes have taken place, the bladder should be emptied several times daily ; and it may be ad- visable in some instances to inject tepid water into it, so as to prevent any portion of the mucus being retained in its cavitj'.'' {Sir B. Brodie.^ The torpid state of the bowels demands active purgatives, as calomel, jalap, castor and croton oil. Sir B. Brodie finds that the action of purg- atives, in these cases, is promoted by combining them with ammonia. When the motions are black and offensive, attention to this part of the treat- ment is of high importance. (Op. et vol. cit. p. 163) When the bladder, rectum, and lower extremities are paralytic, Boyer advised rubbing the back, loins, sacrum, and limbs with liniments containing the tincture of cantharides. With respect to the external and internal use of stimulants, however, it can never be judicious, when there is reason to apprehend much inflammation of the injured parts; and as for the idea of thus restoring the nervous influence, there can be little chance of success, the cause of its interruption being here of a mecha- nical nature. {DelpecU, Mai. Chir. t. i. p. 222.) In an early stage of the case, who would venture to move the patient about for any purpose of this kind? Some authors recommend trepanning, or cutting out a portion of the fractured bone, when the com- pression of the spinal marrow, or its injury by a splinter, is suspected ; but, according to my judg- ment, the indication can never be suflTiciently clear to authorise the operation, which, on account of the great depth of the intervening soft parts, must be tedious, and even difficult to effect, without risk of increasing the injury, which the spinal marrow may already have received. An unsuccessful oper- ation of this kind was once performed by Mr. H. Cline, and another by Mr. Tyrrell. Some cases, published by Sir C. Bell, tend to prove, that the danger to be apprehended from in- juries of the vertebree is the same as that which accompanies injuries of the brain. Hence, he is an advocate for gener.al and local bleeding, and keeping the patient perfectly quiet. But, with respect to operations for the removal of fragments of bone, it is his decided belief, that an incision through the skin and muscles covering the spine, and the withdrawing of a portion of the circle of bone, which surrounds the marrow, would bo in- evitably fatal, the membranes of that part being particularly susceptible of inflannnation and sup- I)uration. And, oven if a sharp spiciilum of fractured bone had run into the spinal marrow, and caused palsy of the lower parts of the body. Sir C. Bell thinks, that exposing the medulla to extract the fragment would so aggravate the mitchiof, that ip- flammation, suppuration, and duath, would be the inevitable consequences. {Surgical Ubs. vol i p. I.'i7.) 'J'he question, respecting such an operation, seems to Sir Benjamin Brodie to lie in a very small compass. " If the whole, or nearly the whole, of a veitobra be driven forwards, the de- pression of the posterior part of it will, of course occasion a diminution of the size of the spinal canal; but the removal of any portion of the ver- tebra, which is accessible to an operation, will be z z 3