WOUNDS. ' 839 GUNSHOT as results at present inform us, it is tlie only one which affords a cliance of saving life. Excision of tlie knee-joint has seldom been per- formed by military surgeons, though it has been so repeatedly and successfully executed in civil life for disease. A single operation of this nature, a secondary case, was the only one attempted during the Crimean war, and this unfortunately ended unfavourably. The Germans, during the second campaign of the Schlesvvig-Holstein war, per- formed this operation once, and likewise with a fatal result'. So that up to the present time military experience of this operation has been very small and very unsatisfactory. The follow- ing are cases which, under favourable conditions, require the performance of resection: where a bullet has entered the joint and slightly injured the bone, or where, besides an injury of the capsule merely, a slight grazing or contusion of the bone has taken place. Bullets lodging in the heads of the bones, after entering the capsule, with or without fracture of the articular ends of the bones, but not extending into the shaft, seem also suitable cases for resection. Stromeyer does not recommend resection of this joint for gunshot injury, as, according to him, it affords little hope, even under favourable circum- stances, and because in the majority of cases it cannot be certainly known how much of the bone should be sawn off. ( Translation by Slatham, p. 31.) The principal objections which military sur- geons have to its performance seem to be the lona' period necessary to effect a cure, the absolute ne- cessity there is for the perfect repose of the limb, and the very careful treatment requisite during the healing process, all of which are seldom attainable in army practice. Resection in the continuity of the femur was practised in three cases during the Holstein cam- paigns, and all were fatal. The great depth at which this bone lies, and the large muscles which surround it, render it very unsuitable for any operation of tins nature. Dr. Macleod states that resections of the shaft of the femur were invariably fatal in the Crimea. Esmarch does not recommend excision for any of the smaller shafts of the hand and foot, as htfemorrhage m.oy follow only to be controlled by amputation oi^the hand or foot. Resection of the ankle-ijoint has not to my know- ledge been performed in military practice. Pene- trating wounds of this joint, according to Dr. Mac- leod, "generally did well in the Crimea, although they required long treatment. Great attention was paid to keeping the articulation perfectly im- movable, and to the enlargement of one or other of the wounds, so as to allow of the free escape of all discharges." Commiinited fracture of the astra- gaUi-i, and, according to Mr. Guthrie, the Indgment of a ball in that bone at a great depth, wliich can- not be extracted, are both cases which call for the removal of that bone. Ablation of the os calcis may be requisite for the corresponding injuries of that, bone. I have seen the half of this latter bone excised for comminuted fracture; the wound healed speedily, and left a good use of the foot. Should the injury include the astragalus and os calcis, both bones must be removed. Mr. T. Wakley has published a very interesting case of this kind from disease, where the patient walked well after the operation. The remaining bones of the tarsus may be removed in like manner for similar injuries. (Vide Guthrie, op. cit. p. 101.) Mr. Statham has performed the operation of resection of the ankle-joint successfully for disease. lie re- commends the flaps to be so made as to fall natu- rally in place after the operation without the use of sutures, and is of opinion that the limb should never be moved from the splint during the pro- gress of cure. He also enjoins good diet after the operation, and frequently prescribes stimulants as well. If diffuse inflammation comes on, he re- commends the patient to be put on the best stimu- lating and nourishing diet, though the inflamma- tion be at its height, at the same time that abs- traction of blood, poultices, &c. are employed locally. Iron, acids, and quinine should be given, to enable the patient to assimilate the food he swallows. {Statham, p. 120.) Excision of tlie Head of the Humerus.— Fractures of the head of the humerus, or cases where a bullet perforates or lodges in it, the main blood-vessel and nerves being uninjured, are very favourable cases for resection. M. Baudens states that excision should be the rule here, and amputation the ex- ception. Mr. Guthrie expresses a similar opinion. The experience of the surgeons of the Schleswig- Holstein war was very favourable to this operation. Out of 19 cases 12 recovered, and a more or less useful arm was preserved. In some of the cases the wound healed in from two to three months. Complete ankylosis occurred in none. Some of the patients could perform heavy work after- wards. In the seven fatal cases the resection was made at the period of highest inflammation, or when the patients had become affected with pyajmia. In eight cases which were left to nature without operation, three did not prove fatal, but at the end of six months amputation of the affected limb was still considered likely to be called for. In some of these resections as nmch as four or five inches of the shaft of the humerus was included, and in the majority of the successful cases a greater or less amount of the shaft was af- fected. {Esmarch, translated by Statham, p. 65.) Of the 14 cases published by Baudens, 13 recovered, possessing an imperfect ginglymoid joint, but with the loss of the rotatory movements of the shoulder. This able surgeon objects to the division of the long tendon of the biceps muscle in the operation, and the surgeons of the Schleswig-Holstein cam- p.iigns always preserved this tendon entire, al- though they did not consider its preservation absolutely essential to the future mobility of the limb, as shown by three cases where the tendon was torn away by the ball. On the cure being completed, the patient soon obtained free and voluntary use of the arm. {Esmarch, p. 67.) The results of resections of the head of the humerus before Sebastopol were very satisfactory. Of 13 cases 12 recovered, and were sent to Eng- land ; the remaining one died. Highly favourable results these, when we take into consideration tliat formerly all those cases would most probably have undergone cxarticulation at the shoulJer-joiiit. Whore the scapula is extensively injured, and the injury is accompanied with fracture of the head of the humerus, resection, according to Stro- meyer, is not successful. A single case of this kind where excision was resorted to, before Sebas- topol, had a fatal termination. Resection of the Conlimdty of the Shaft of the Humerus.—Stromeyer is of opinion that extensive resections nf the shaft of the humerus should never 3 II 4