CARIES, 409 rarefying liave been applied, the latter being used to illustrate a fact alluded to by Mr. Syrae, viz:—that although the spongy bones are the most frequent seat of caries, yet" that tiie compact osseous tissue is often affected, and when so, the affection is invariably preceded by a form of inflammation which expands, softens, and sepa- rates the dense tissue, causing it to resemble the cancellous texture iu appearance. Caries, then, is the molecular death of bone, and corres- ponds to ulceration, while necrosis is the death of bone on a larger scale, the sloughing, gan- grene, or mortification of bone, both being the result of inflammation. Simple superficial ulcera- tion of bone, the result of local inflammation, be- comes readily amenable to proper treatment, while, i7icorrigibleiiess, as Mr. Syme says, is the peculiar characteristic of a carious bone.] The bones, like other parts of the body, are composed of arteries, veins, absorbent vessels, nerves, and cellular texture ; they are endued with vitality ; they are nourished, they grow, waste, are repaired, and undergo various muta- tions according to the age of the individual ; and they are subject to diseases analogous to those of the soft parts. To the phosphate of lime, which is more or less abundantly distributed in their texture, they owe all their solidity ; and, perhaps, it is to the same inorganic substance that the dif- ference in their vital properties and in their dis- eases, from those of the rest of the bod}', is to be referred. In fact, this particular organisation and inferior vitality of the bones, are generally supposed to account for the small number, pecu- liar character, and generally slow progress of their diseases. {Did. des Sciences Med. t. iv. p. 80.) Bones of a spongy texture are more frequently attacked by caries than such as are compact. Hence, the vertebrs ; astragalus, and other bones of the tarsus ; those of the carpus ; the sternum ; the bones of the pelvis, and the heads of the long bones, are often affected ; and the bones of young persons are unquestionafjly more frequently the seat of caries than those of old subjects. But though the soft and spongy bones are most subject to caries, they sometimes suffer a degree of injury sufficient to produce the death of a por- tion of their texture. Thus in a case, where a musket-ball had struck the liead of the tibia, a sequestrum was found in it, with a cloaca leading down to it. [Liston, in Kdin. Aled. and Surij. Journ. No. Ixxviii. p. 50.) In the fine plates of Weidmann, andthe cases recorded by him, the same fact, as the effect of disease, was long ago illustrated. According to the observations of Mr. Syme, when caries occurs in the tables of the skull or the cylindrical bones, it is uniformly preceded by a morbid expansion of the compact structure into a state resembling that which naturally belongs to those where the disease usually resides. He notices that the shafts of bones, a)ul especially that of the tibia, are frequently enlarged and thickened, in consequence of chronic inflamma- tion, and at the same time loosened in tlicir tex- ture, so as to present nearly the same appearance as that of the spongy articulating extremities. "In bones so altered, caries occasionally occurs, or, I should rather say, a condition resembling caries, since it differs from this disease in one important feature, viz. incorrir/iblcness. I have hardly ever known this pseudo-cariea resist the local application of blisters, and internal use of oxymuriate of mercury; and I have felt very uiicomforiable in seeing extensive incisions, rasp- ing, trephining, actual cauteries, &c. employed ineft'ectually to cure complaints admitting of such easy remedy." (See Edin. Med. and Suig. Journ. vol. xxxi. p. 257.) In necrosis, the bone is entirely deprived of life : in caries, the vital principle exists ; but a morbid action_ is going on, whereby the texture of the bone is altered, and rendered softer aud lighter than natural. Birt, though these disorders are es- sentially different from each other, they frequently occur together in the same part, as Weidmann, Liston, and others have correctly explained. In syphilis, this fact is often exemplified, the degree of necrosis predominating over that of caries. In the most common species of caries, a loose, fungous flesh grows out of the interstices, formed on the surface of the diseased bone, and bleeds from the slightest causes ; while, in the soft parts, a sinus generally leads down to the caries, and emits a fetid, dark-coloured sanies. These symp- toms, however, as well as the tendency in the accompanying ulcer or sinus to pi-oduce large fungous granulations, are more constant in cases of necrosis than in those of caries, some of which may remain a considerable time unattended with any outward sore, abscess, or sinus, as is illus- trated in caries produced by various diseases of the joints. [Mr. Stanley gives the following very clear and practical account of the afi'ection. " Caries ex- hibits in its progress the following phenomena. Inflammation extending from the bone to its in- vesting soft parts, these become swollen, thickened, and tender; and abscesses are formed in them, which contract into fistulous passages leading to the diseased bone. The periosteum covering^'the diseased bone becomes thickened, very vascular and readily separable from it. The bone itself is at first very vascular, then its ceils become filled with a reddish-brown fluid, apparently a mixture of blood and pus, and occasionally combined with oily- particles. Absorption of the bone, but chiefly of its animal part, ensues ; that which remains is porous and fragile, and of a grey, brown, or black colour, probably from decomposition of the matter within its cells ; to which cause, likewise the fetid odour of the matter discharged throui'h the fistulous passages may be ascribed." " Ulceration in some instances, commences within the bone hol- lowing it out, and reducing it to a thin shel'l- in others, ulceration commences in the outer surface of the bone, and extends progressively inwards. Whilst these changes are in progress, granulations,' very loose and spongy, and bleeding on the slight- est touch, often arise from the diseased bone filling the cavities in its interior, and protruding through the fistulous passages in the soft parts covering it." May not these peculiar granulations be regarded as essentially pathognomonic of dis- eased bone.' "The phenomena just described occur most frequently, and most distinctly in the caries of bones composed wholly of cancellous tex- ture ; but they are also observed in long and in flat bones ; and among the former, most frequently ill Uic tibia. In bones that are deeply situated caries is often accompanied by very little evidence of iiiflanmiation, cither in the bone or in its in- vesting soft parts. Thus the scrofulous caries of