u B 2 CiESAREAN peiitoneuni, fascia transversalis, and linea alba cut from within outward, as far as the extent of the wound in the integuments. The latter cut should be cautiously made with the crooked bistoury, guided by the forefinger of the left hand, lest any of the intestines be accidentally injured. The uterus must next be carefully opened, and iin in- cision made in it, of tiie same length as the preced- ing wound. The foetus is to be taken out through the wound, and then the placenta and membranes. In this way, M. Artiste lately operated, so as to save both mother and child. (See Edin. Med. and Sury. Journ. vol. iv. 178.) In this country (where, indeed, the Cesarean operation has proved most unsuccessful) the linea alba is preferred, I believe, by the majority of practitioners. That the method is not always attended with the formidable objections urged against it by Sabatier, is quite certain; the case published by Dr. Chisholm is a, decisive proof of this assertion. (See Edin. Med. and Sura. Journ. vol. iv. p. 178, 179.) A third method of performing the abdominal Coesarean operation, consists in making a trans- verse incision, five inches in length, through the parietes of the abdomen, between the rectus muscle and the spine, and in a situation more or less high, according to the more or less elevated position of the uterus. This plan was recommended by Lauverjat. (See Nouvelle Metliode de praiiquer rOpiration Cesarieiine. Paris, 8vo. 1788.) Lauverjat acknow- ledges, that the method had been successfully prac- tised by different persons before himself, and espe- cially in one instance, which was particularly re- markable, as, ill consequence of the first incision having been made too high up, it became necessary to make a second one, which extended obliquely from the other. The side on which the operation is to be done, is in itself a matter of indifference. But, if the liver or spleen were to project, one ought to avoid it. Also, if the uterus were to incline more towards one side than the other, it would be proper to operate on the side where this viscus could be most conveniently exposed. The patient being put in a proper position, and her abdomen kept steady by an attendant, who must apply tlie palms of his hands to the sides of the uterus, the integuments, muscles, and peritoneum are to be divided with the usual precautions. The uterus is tiien to be opened, and the wound in it enlarged in the requi- site degree, by means of a probe-pointed bistoury. Should the placenta present itself, care nmst be taken not to injure it; but it should be separated, in order to facilitate breaking the membranes at its circumference. The child is next to be ex- tracted. This part of the operation is subject to no general rule. Delivery being accomplished, we are recom- mended to introduce through the vagina anodyne injections, in order to lessen spasm, and wash out the coagula. This method is preferable to that of clearing out the uterus with the hand. Sabatier condemns the plan, formerly advised by Rousset and Riiieau, of passing a catheter up the neck of this viscus for the purpose of washing out the lochia, as well as the absurd proposal of employing a seton to promote their escape. Should the lochia not pass readily outward, we are recommended to introduce the finger occasionally into the cervix uteri, so as to free it from coagula. OPERATION. <a7i The only dressings advised by Sabatier are a large pledget, compresses, and a moderately tight bandage round the body. These are to be changed when soiled with the matter or discharge. In this country, practitioners would not neglect to bring the edges of the wound together, by means of sutures and strips of adhesive plaster, in order to promote the healing of the wound by the first in- tention. Mr. AVood, of Manchester, performed the Cx- sarean operation, in a «ase where parturition was prevented by deformity of the pelvis. The incision was made nearly in a transverse direction, on the left side of the abdomen, aboutfive inches in length, beginning at the' umbilicus. This part was fixed upon, because the nates of the child could be felt there, and it was evident that no intestine was interposed betwixt the abdominal parietes and the uterus. There was scarcely any effusion of blood, either from the external wound or from that of the uterus, though the latter was made directly upon the placenta. Instead of dividing the placenta, Mr. Wood introduced his hand be- twixt it and the uterus, and, laying hold of one of the knees, extracted the fcetus with ease. His hand readily passed betwixt the placenta and uterus ; this produced hcemorrhage ; but the whole quantity of blood lost did not exceed seven or eight ounces. After the uterus had been emptied, the intestines and omentum protruded at the wound. These having been reduced, the integuments were brought into contact with sutures and adhesive plaster. This operation, however, did not save the woman's life; she died on the fourth day after its performance. (See Med. and Physical Journal.) [It may be here mentioned that Dr. Aitken sug- gested that the operation should be performed under tepid water, in order to exclude the air from the peritoneal cavity and to preserve the tempera- ture of the body.] Of OPJiRATING WHEN THE FffiJTUS IS EXTRA- UTERINE. Delivery cannot possibly happen in the ordinary way \yhen the fcetus is situated in the ovaries, or Fallopian tube, or in the cavity of the peritoneum. However, there are many instances recorded oi' ventral pregnancies, which the mothers survived the dead fcetus having been discharged by frag- ments out of an abscess in the parietes of the ab- domen. About the year 1820 I had an opportunity of seeing a case, under Mr. Gunning, inSt. George's Hospital, in which the child was discharged piecemeal from an abscess of the abdomen • and I saw another case, under Dr. Blicke of Walt'ham- stow, in which portions of bone and a great deal of matter had been voided through the vagina though the swelling was altogetheron the right side' Practitioners are occasionally called upon to do a very similar operation to the Cesarean, when the child has passed into the cavity of the perito- neum, in consequence of the rupture of the uterus. Unfortunately such an accident is not uncommon and though the causes of it may not be obvious' nothing is more certain than that the foetus itself IS entirely passive, and has no share in producing the misfortune. The symptoms by which the event may be known are not always clear. When, liowever, the pains have been violent • when the last, after being excessively severe, has been followed by a kind of calm ; when the couii-