332 doubtful. Alterations in the proportion of albumen are, liowever, of the utmost importance. It is re- lative]}' increased by all causes that diminish the water of the liquor sanguinis, or the red corpuscles, and is accordingly in excess in cases which are at- tended with profuse discharges, as in cholera and dropsies, and after the use of drastic purgatives ; unless, as sometimes happens, it passes off with the' discharge, or with some of the secretions. Andral and Gavarrett found the albumen absolutely in- creased in acute rheumatism, pneumonia, pleuritis, tonsilitis, phthisis, cerebral congestion, erysipelas' and other aflfections, the increase varying from 4 to 34 excess in 1000; but in no disease being constant and characteristic. In chlorosis, it has been found in excess from 14 to 20 parts in 1000 _ The proportion of albumen has been found diminished in diseases attended with defective nutrition and atrophy, in the latter stages of typhus, in dysentery, diseases from malaria, scurry, remittent fevers, and dropsy from various organic affections; and in the original attacksof most diseases where the appetite is lost, and where nutriment has been withheld as a remedial measure. In diseases of the heart, Becquerel and Rodier foimd very little variation till dropsy set in, after which the albumen rapidly diminished, from which cir cumstance it may be inferred, that dropsical effu sion IS promoted by adeficiency of this constituent. It IS in Bright's disease of the kidnev that a dimunition of the albumen of the blood appears to be essentially related to the disease. The density of the serum sinks from 1029 — 31, to 1019 — 20- and in one case Dr. Bostock found it as low as' 1013. According to Andral, the diminution is exactly proportionate to the quantity of albumen in the urine. In this disease one of the most im- portant functions of the kidney also nearly ceases, and there is an accumulation of urea in the blood The albumen of the blood of the vena portse, as first received into the circulation, is in an im perfect state designated albuminose," by M. Mailhe (Carpenier's Prinoiples of Physiology, p 1C3), and "incipient" albumen, by Dr. Front. In different parts of the vascular system, in disease, there are probably variations depending on the proportion of alkali with which the albumen is combined ; where the basic albuminate of soda ought to exist the neutral is found ; and since, in these states, albumen passes freely through organic membranes, it is probable that mal-assimilation of albumen is intimately concerned as a cause of its transudation through the kidneys and other tis sues, in albuminuria, cholera, and dropsies. The fihrin differs chemically from the .albumen in being more highly oxydised, and possessed of the power of fibrillatfon when the blood is brought to rest. Its quantity and quality may be judged of, in some degree, by the dimensions of the co- agulum in connection with the contractile power and ultimate density of the clot ; but its quantity can be accurately determined only by analysis. A redundancy of fibrin occurs in various states of the system, as after parturition, and throughout the early period of lactation, and in various dis- eases, particularly ardent fever, entonic inflamma- tion, and rheumatic fever. Its quantity may b increased, in_ proportion to the solid constituents taken collectively, to above four times its usual amount; from 2"5 parts, its average normal stan- dard, it has been found, in pneumonia, as high as BLOOD, PATHOLOGY OF. 10-5 parts in 1000. A redundancy of fibrin gives the blood a tendency to coagulation within the vessels, and frequently occurs as one of the most promment characteristics of a primary patho- logical condition. (See HypERiNcsis.) ; A deficiency of fibrin occurs in many diseases ; It renders the blood less coagulable, but not in a degree proportionate to the loss of fibrin, as much IS due, in the character of this process, to the vital qualities of the fibrin. This deficiency is met with in some diseases in which the respiration has been interfered with during life, as those which prove fatal by asphyxia, or obstructive heart dis- ease. It may be reduced to a mere trace, so that the blood is no longer coagulable, as in some ma- lignant diseases. When the vital qualities of the fibrin are de- teriorated, and the fibrin weak, the blood clot does not contract in the usual degree, coagulation is retarded, the coagulum does not hold the red cor- puscles uniformly suspended until the contraction is complete, the corpuscles are very unequally disse- minated in the clot, there being a gradual increase in number from the uppermost to the lowest meshes, and the density of the clot is graduallj' diminished in a corresponding degree. The orga- nising qualities of the liquor sanguinis, in this diseased condition, are weak ; the nutritive blas- temata share in this debility, and also the repara- tive exudations after operations and injuries and in diseases generally. When the blood contains mere traces of a feeble fibrin no clot is formed, and the corpuscles subside, with a few flocculi, as a dark^or blackish sediment, and if the fibrin lose its vitality in iolo, the blood remains altogether fluid. _ The quality of fibrillation in the liquor sangui- nis appears to be very easily affected by various external and internal influences. Measured by the amount of fibrin obtained from the blood by analysis, cerebral congestion diminishes it, and when this is relieved by bleeding, it again rises; an efi'ect probably due to increased respiration. {Andral.) The blood is often fluid, or very im perfectly coagulated, or the coagula are very soft and friable, after death from heart disease, in cya- nosis, where the venous and arterial blood is mixed, and a portion of the latter, as it passes from the arterial to the venous system is not oxygenated, and in death from the exhaustion of violent mus- cular exercise. The fibrin is deficient, or dete- •iorated, or both, and the blood often prevented coagulating, from the action of various poisons, as carbonic acid, hydrocyanic acid, sulphuretted hy- drogen gas, carburetted hydrogen, arsenious acid, oxalic acid, digitalis, and alkalies. This state occurs also in adynamic fevers, purpura hajraorrha- gica, scurvy, and many malignant diseases, giving a tendency to effusions, hemorrhages, petechi;u and vibices, and constituting one of the most im- portant characteristics of more complicated diseases of the blood. (See Hvperinosis, Span/Emi.\, T0XICOH.EMIA.) Not onlj' well marked changes in the propor- tions of these constituents of the liquor sanguinis, but the proportions which the two varieties of corpuscles bear to each otlier, and to the iluid in which t\viy are formed, nourished, circulate, and deca_y, differ to a veiy great extent; and these dillerences also constitute important fi'aturcs in some severe and complicated diseases of the blood. The colourless corpuscles have been long kuown