HYDROCELE. 1042 with ordinary precaution is free from danger. It consists in puncturing the tumor so as to allow of the escape of the fluid in the sac of the tunica vaginalis. The operation may be performed with a lancet or a trocar, but most usually the latter is employed. Formerly, the lancet was much used in doing this operation, hut it is not now mucii employed; for, as Mr. Curling remarks, "the whole of the fluid cannot well be evacuated through the opening thus made, without much squeezing and handling of the parts; and there is also the risk of division of some small vessel which, by pouring blood into the tunica vaginalis, may produce a Lffimatnc le." (Op. cit. p. 96.) The same sur- geon lays down souie good rules in the selection of a proper trocar, the canula of which is about two inches long, and a line in diameter, In selecting an instrument the surgeon should see that the ca- nula fits properly, and that its shoulder does not project too much; or else, after the point of the trocar has penetrated the cyst, the canula may hitch outside it, and instead of entering the cavity, push the tunica vaginalis before it. In such a case, if the accident be not perceived in time, the tes- ticle, or the back part of the cyst, is very liable to be wounded. The trocar, before being used, should be thrust through a piece of washleather held tense, and unless it penetrates readily, the instru- ment is unfit for use. This advice, Mr. Curling observes, may seem unimportant, but it should be recollected that, in addition to converting the case into a hsematocele, any bungling in an operation, of so simple a nature as the tapping of a hydrocele, may induce the patient to suspect a general want of skill. As usually performed, the operation is done with the patient in a standing position; but it is recom- mended that, if he be timid, or liable to faint, or that the tumor is very bulky and inconvenient by its weight, he may be seated in a chair, or placed in a recumbent position. The following are Mr. Fergusson's directions for tapping a hydrocele :— " The scrotum should be seized in the left hand, gently raised, and squeezed so as to render the skin tense in front; then the point of the trocar, held in the right hand, with the apex of the fore- finger almost close upon it, should be thrust into the front of the swelling, about midway between its upper and lower end, at any interval between the vessels of the scrotum. As soon as the instru- ment has entered, which will be readily known by the cessation of resistance, the finger must be raised, and, as the trocar is withdrawn, the canula should be thrust somewhat deeper, where it must be allowed to remain until the fluid has run off." (See Fergusson's Pract. Surgery, 4th ed. p. 738.) When the operation is over, and all the fluid is drawn off, the canula is to be withdrawn, and the edges of the wound slightly squeezed together, and a small piece of adhesive plaster applied to the wound. The value of the trocar and canula over the lancet is thus seen in the complete evacuation of the fluid. Although it is recommended to make the puncture a little below the centre of the an- terior part of the tumor, as the most convenient on account of the pusition of the testicle at the upper and back part of the hydrocele, yet the situation of the testicle should be first ascertained, as its position may have become altered by adhesions T other causes, in which event it may be neces- sary to puncture at the side, or even behind. It is recommended as better, however, to avoid the posterior part if possible, as in this situation there is some risk of wounding the spermatic ar« tery. On no account sliould the surgeon neglect any of the customary precautions, for it has been most truly remarked, that simple as the case may appear, more mishaps have occurred in the punc- ture of hydroceles than in any other operation in surgery. Free from danger as the operation of tapping a hydrocele ordinarily is, it is important that the patient, after the parts have been properly sus- pended, remain quiet for the next twenty-four hours; he should be directed to walk as little as possible during that period, and to .ibstoin from all active exercise for a day or two ; this is the more necessary in individuals of an irritable or unhealthy constitution, or in advanced life. If this advice is neglected, acute inflammation of the tunica vagi- nalis is liable to succeed the operation, with, per- haps, sloughing of the scrotum, or other bad conse- quence. Mr. Curling tapped the hydrocele of a healthy man, who, notwithstanding this precaution given him, walked several miles the same after- noon ; severe inflammation of the sac followed, with sloughing of the scrotum, and after much suffering, he recovered in eight weeks, with the disease cured. A health}' man had his hydrocele tapped by Mr. Lawrence, and went to work im- mediately after the operation, his occupation re- quiring him to run up and down stairs ; the con- sequence was, an enormous haematocele, but from which he recovered. (The Lancet, vol. i. for 18G0, p. 394.) Another instance, of a similar kind, oc- curred to Mr. Wakley junr. in a bookbinder, aged 15, who went about his avocations immediately after the operation, which was followed b}' a hasmatocele larger than the original tumor ; from which, however, he recovered. {Idem. vol. i. for 1849, p. 313.) A person, whose hydrocele had been tapped in the morning, travelled at night by the coach to Manchester, and had sufiicient inflam- mation brought on to produce a cure. (See Sir-A, Cooper, On the Testis, p. 181.) At a later period of life, if proper precautions be not taken, the palli- ative operation can scarcely be viewed as free from danger. Sir Astley Cooper mentions two instances of persons in advanced age, who walked out the day after the operation ; this was followed by inflammation and sloughing, which ended fatally. Mr. Hamilton, of Dublin, related to Mr. Curling a case of gangrene of the scrotum ending fatallj% which occurred in a person of un- healthy constitution, from simple lapping. The ne- cessity for rest and quietude after the operation, especially in aged person.=, will be apparent from what has been just related. The small wound made by the puncture usually heals by the first intention, sometimes it festers, and there may be some surrounding subcutaneous oedema. The operation should be repeated as soon as the tumor has become sufliciently large to require it, from its inconvenient size and w eight. The period of lime before it will be agam required varies much in different individuals ; in some it may be a year, in others as much as three or f»ur; while its repetition may be necessary in some cases every four or six months, if the fluid collects inpidly. A small quantity of fluid gives rise to much un- easiness in some persons, whilst others, again, e.\:-