412 CASTRATION. acetic acid, or diluted muriatic or nitric acid. The actual and potential cauteries, and cutting instru- ments, have also been employed. On the Continent, and particularly in France, the plan of touching carious parts ol' bones with the actual cautery, alter bringing them fairly into view by tlie previous use of the knife, is still pur- sued. It is thought that the burning iron acts by changing the caries into a necrosis, irritating the subjacent sound parts, and exciting that action of the vessels, by which the dead or diseased part of the bones must be thrown oif. Such is the doctrine inculcated by Boyer, ,ind such is the practice sanctioned by other surgeons of the present day. [The pathology of caries indicates clearly its appropriate treatment. As it is essentially a con- stitutional affection, so must it be met by appro priate general remedies; those forms of the affection which are produced by any of the specific causes already alluded to are the most amenable to treatment: but in every case, soothing local anti- phlogistic applications, the early evacuation of abscesses, the administration of remedies calculated to siTstain the powers of the patient, judiciously combined with alteratives, the free use of a nourishing diet, and above all, sea air, are the means to be relied on for the correction of the cari ous constitution. In the former editions of this ■work, much space was allotted to the description of tlie various modes of removing carious bones, and the different appropriate instruments. The gouge has been much extolled and much used of late years ; indeed surgeons would appear to have ignored the constitutional origin of this affection altogether, and to have indulged in the idea that they could excise an ulcerating surface with bene- fit to a patient already reduced in health, and for whose cure the largest local supply of blood is re- quired rather than a considerable local depletion. But it is refreshing to learn that the day for local interference is passing away, and the most expe- rienced surgeons now admit that local interference with carious bone is not satisfactory in its results. At no time are we justified in interfering locally, save when a portion of bone is felt loose and de- tached, or when the improvement of the general health is sufficiently manifest to warrant the hope that the ulcerative action is arrested. For the same reason, great care should be observed in the application of blisters, and counter-irritants in the neighbourhood of diseased bones : they should always be placed at a sufficient distance to prevent their acting as immediate excitants. When placed in close contact, as on the carpus, and tarsus, where little soft parts intervene, they almost invariably increase the mischief considerablj'.] Speticer Smith. [Disease of the liver, spleen, and kidneys, con- sisting of " waxy degeneration," occurs consecu- tively to .long continued caries and necrosis ; and both in the diseased bone and diseased viscera, and also in the blood, those peculiar particles denominated "corpora amylacea," have been detected.] En. (See IIeterochymensis.) (See .7. L. Petit, Traitd des Mai. des Os. Paris, 1741. yl. Monro, in Kdin. Med. Essays, v(]l. 5. VVcidmnnti, iJe Necrosi Ossiiirn, Kruncof-1793. CuUisen, Systomn CliiruiKiiE Ilodieriuc, vol. i. p. 493. Hoi/er, Traitd dos Maliidies Cliir. t. iii. p. 453, et scq. I'aris, 1814 Uict. des Sciences Mt'd. t. iv. p. 78, &c. ./. IVi/san, on the Structure, Physiology, and Diseases of the Bones, &c. p. 263, 8vo. Lond. 1820. L. Whsmann, De Kite Ci)enoscendis ct Cuiandis Nudutione, Carie et NecroM Ossium, 8vo. 11. Liston, lisaay on Canes, in lidin. Med. and Surg. Journ. No. 78. B. Bell, on Diseases of the Bones, cliap. 2. l2mo. Uduib. 1828. Ilerhert Tl/aiyo'i-Outlines of Human PutholoKy, sect, vii. p. 30. 8V0. Loud. 1835. i!<tanteij. Treatise on Diseases of the Bones, 8vo. London, 1849. Diction- naire des Dictionnaires de Mddeoine, &c. t. ii. Paris, 1850. Gcrdy, Chirurgie Pratique, t. iii. Parisj 1855. Houcl, Manuel d'Anatomie Patholosiaue. Paris, 1857.] (See CARTILAGES, ULCERATION OF. Joints.) CASTRATION. The operation of removing a testicle. For an account of the cases rendering this measure necessary, see Testicle, Diseases op. The manner of operating is as follows —The pa- tient being laid on a table of convenient height, the first incision should begin, as nearly as pos- sible, opposite to the abdominal ring, and be con- tinued at least to the bottom of the scrotum. The manner of beginning this incision is dif- ferently described by writers : some of them ad- vising that the skin be held up by an assistant; others, that the knife be used perpendicularly in this as in other parts. The latter mode is gene- rally preferred by English surgeons. The length of the division is a more important consideration. A. small wound would indeed serve to lay bare the spermatic cord; but it will not permit the oper- ator to do what is necessary afterwards with dex- terity or facility; and as the scrotum must, either at first or at last, be divided nearly to the bottom, it had better be done at first. Dupuytren recommends it to be carried also a little further, in the direction backwards. "In scirrhous cases (says he), not only is the testicle affected, hut often a portion of the spermatic cord. It is therefore for the purpose of following up the diseased parts that the incision is extended up to the abdominal ring. It is carried down the whole length of the organ, in order that this may be re- moved entire from the scrotum ; for, if the opening were only two or three inches long, the testis could not be easily drawn out, and the dissection would be extremely painful. The intention of prolong- ing the incision backwards is not less obvious; if this were not attended to, the scrotum would retract, and form a sac, in which the pus would accumulate." (See Dujmytrcn, Clin. C/iir. t. i. p. 91.) The spermatic cord is next to belaid bare by another incision. If the external pudendal artery is divided, the bleeding from it may be checked by an assistant putting his finger on it. The sper- matic cord having been detached from its sur- rounding connections, the operator, instead of put- ting a ligature round it, which is an excessivelj' painful proceeding, should first transfix it with a tenaculum or vulsellum, so as to hinder its re- traction within tlie abdominal ring ; then divide t just below the teuaculum with tiie scalpel ; and next tie the arteries of the cord as separately as possible from the rest of it. This plan, which lias ong been adopted by tlic best surgeons in London, was also preferred by Dupuytren. (See Clin. Chir. t. i. p. 94.) Then the testicle is to bo dissected out fi-oni its connection with the scrotum: the loose texture of tlie connecting cellular substance, the previous separation of the testicle from the sper- matic cord, and the help of an assistant to hold up the lips of the wound, will enable the surgeon to do