186 ANEURISM. if it has not already obtained, the universal ap- probation of the surgical profession. This amend- ment consists in making the incision in the upper third of the thigh, or a little higher than the place where Mr. Hunter used to make the wound. Scarpa's reason for this practice is to avoid the necessity of removing the sartorius muscle too much from its position, or of turning it back, to bring the artery into view, so as to be tied. I have seen the best operators, even professors of anatomy, embarrassed, by having the sartorius muscle immediately in their way after the first in- cision ; and as the vessel is more superficial a little higher up, not being covered there by the sartorius, or the dense fascia extended from the adductor muscle to the vastus internus lower down the thigh, while the place is further from the diseased part of the artery,aud there is no hazard of the anas- tomoses failing to keep up the circulation, this part of Scarpa's practice is highly deserving of imitation. " The part of the limb (observes Mr. Hodgson) in which the femoral artery can be tied with the greatest facility, is between four and five inches below Poupart's ligament. The profunda gene- rally arises from the femoral artery an inch and a half, or an inch and three quarters, below Pou- part's ligament: it very rarely arises so low as two inches. If, therefore, the ligature be applied to the femoral artery at the distance of four or five inches below Poupart's ligament, the surgeon will not be embarrassed by meeting with the profunda during the operation, and the chance of causing secondary hemorrhage, by tying the artery close to the origin of this vessel, will be obviated." {On ihe Dis. of Arteries, 8,'0. p. 434.) With the view of preventing injury of the femoral vein, Mr. Carmichael recommended a plan, which is now always followed, namely, that of introducing the needle on the pubic side of the artery, where the vein presents itself to view, and can be most easily avoided. He remarks, that the only part of the thigh, from Poupart's ligament to the tendon of the adductor magnus, in which the femoral vein is not completely covered by the artery, lies within the space which extends from Poupart's ligament to the point where the artery meets the sartorious muscle. At the part of this space most distant from Poupart's ligament, the vein begins to dis- close itself at the pubic side of the artery, from beneath which it emerges more and more as it ascends. (See Trans. Sfc. of the Fellows, S;c. of the King's and Queen's College of Physicians, Ireland, vol. ii. p. 357.) [Wound of the femoral vein is without doubt the most serious accident that can happen in the operation for ligature of the superficial femoral ar- tery, and is one of which there is especial risk when this operation is had recourse to for aneurism, as in this disease the fine cellular tissue which naturally connects the two vessels often becomes thickened and indurated, in consequence of in- flammatory action having extended upwards from the sac to the sheath of the vessels. It is best avoided by passing the needle in the way tluat has been already recommended, unarmed, and without the employment of force. This accident is almost invariably fatal, there being but very few instances on record in which patients have survived it ; death usually resulting from diffuse phlebitis, or the supervention of gangrene. The true cause of the fatal result in these cases was first pointed out by Mr. Hadwen, who showed that when the vein is wounded by the aneurismal needle, it is trans- fixed at two points, between which the thread is drawn across ; and when this is tied, a segment of the vein is necessarily included with the artery in the noose. It is this inclusion of the ligature within a portion of the vein, where it acts like a seton, and keeps up constant irritation, that pre- vents the occurrence of adhesive phlebitis, and occasions diffuse inflammation in the interior of the vessel ; and it is consequently this circumstance, and not the mere wound of the vein, that deter- mines the great fatality of this peculiar accident. Guided by this view of the mechanism of the in- jury, the indications in its treatment become ob- vious. They consist in removing the ligature at once, and thus, by taking away the main source of irritation, converting the wound into a simple puncture of the vessel, which readily assumes ad- hesive action. The surgeon should therefore, as soon as the accident is perceived, withdraw the ligature, and opening the sheath about half an inch higher up, reapply it to the artery there. The hemorrhage from the punctured vein readily ceases on the application of a compress.] The femoral vein, in a few rare instances, has been found double. Thus, in the case recorded by Mr. Macready, the popliteal vein, in the lower part of the popliteal space, " consisted of but one trunk, as usual, and held its natural situation, with respect to the surrounding parts ; but in the upper third of the popliteal space, it divided into two branches, which passed off at an acute angle, having one of the muscular branches supplied by the popliteal artery in the apex of the angle. The veins then ascended ; one, the internal and poste- rior, holding its usual position, with respect to the artery, namely, posterior to it at first, but getting internal as it ascended ; the other branch crossed the artery, and ascended anteriorly, and a little ex- ternally to it, which relation it held until it arrived at the upper third of Scarpa's space, where it crossed the artery again, and then, uniting with the internal, formed the femoral, which appeared dilated into a sinus. The vein then had the usual relation to the artery, but was somewhat larger." {Macready, in Dublin Journ. of Med. Science, vol. ix. p. 318.) In the same volume, p. 325, Mr. Goodall has recorded another example of double femoral vein. In the latter, the external branch crossed the artery twice. This occasional variety in the femoral vein is important, in relation to the operation for popliteal aneurism. The skin and superficial fascia are to be divided, in the situation and to the extent above specified, down to the femoral fascia, under which the artery lies, and maybe felt beating. The next object, therefore, is to divide the fascia, which is here much thinner than at the outer side of the limb, and may be cut with another stroke of the bis- toury ; or, (what is safer, with the view of ab- staining from all chance of wounding the artery,) a slight cut may first be made in the fascia, the division of which may then be made to the re- quisite extent by introducing under it a grooved director, on which the furtlier incision may be made with perfect security. The fascia is to be divided in the direction of the external wound, but, to what extent, is a point on which surgical writers differ, and, indeed, tliey must here differ, so long as they are not unanimous about the me-