n 2 ostosis, aneurism, &c.] The contraction of cica- trices alter burns, or after a destruction of the soft parts by gangrene or ulceration ; and an un- yielding state of the cellular tissue and fascia, the effect of extensive and inveterate abscesses in it; and especially inflammation of the synovial membrane, whether acute, or chronic, idiopathic, scrofulous, gouty, or rlieuraatic, &c., or accidentally excited by mechanical injury of the joints; are all so many circumstances capable of leading to ankylosis. Particular fractures of the joints, or such as are situated near them, if not skilfully treated, are apt to be followed by inflammation of the synovial membrane, absorption of the cartilages, and complete ankylosis. No doubt, in some of these instances, the connection amounts at first only to what authors understand by false ankylosis; but, in the course of time, this becomes converted into complete, or true, characterised by osseous con- solidation. On the whole, however, as M. Sanson has remarked, false ankylosis is far more common than the true form of it. When a bone is fractured near a joint, and this Is kept too long motionless, ankylosis is apt to fol- low. Here the risk is increased by the synovial membrane being likely to inflame ; and, indeed, sometimes the accident brings on ulceration of the cartilages. In University College Hospital, I lately saw a case, where the olecranon had been broken across its base, and the detached piece had become completely consolidated to the humerus ; yet the patient had considerable power of extending the fore-arra. It is partly in consequence of the risk of inflammation of the synovial membrane and of ankylosis, that fractures of or very near joints are moreserious than others differently placed. Wounds and contusions of joints may bring on such changes as terminate in ankylosis. I have already men- tioned, that Cruveilhier has seen an instance of ankylosis of the right articulation of the lower jaw. The patient lived to a very advanced age, and, not- withstanding the ankylosis, was able to speak very well, and to masticate by pressing the food with her tongue against the hard substance covering the alveolar processes, where the teeth were deficient. (See Cruveilliier, Anat. Pathologique, livr. ix. pi. 5, figs. 1 & 2.) [Although this work is essentially devoted to practical surgery, some explanation, however briefj will necessarily be expected of the pathological condition of tlie joints in true and false ankylosis. Without entering into more precise narration of the various kinds of ankylosis, for which the reader is referred to Cruveilhier, Houel, Nelaton, &c., it may be stated generally that true and false anky- losis may be the result of,—1st, Complete fusion or consolidation of the ends of the bones forming the ar- ticulation, a condition brought about by the absorp- tion or destruction of the articular cartilages (for the various exciting causes see above), and the reci- procal throwing out of granulations from the exposed ends of the bones thus brought into contact. More or less of atrophic deformity usually attends this complete fusion of the spongy tissue of two bones; — 2nd. The formation of a bony slicatli or cap- sule to the joint, or, more connnonlj', the formation of osseous growths, bridges or stalactites, passing from one bone to the otlier. Such growths arc usually, but by no means invariably, found in the direction of the fibrous tissues, tendons, or liga- ments, which surround the joint affected. In a ANKYLOSIS. 243 preparation deposited in the Mus^e Dupuytren, ankylosis of the elbow is produced by ossification of the brachialis anticus muscle, and in another, the hip-joint is fixed by ossification of the psoas muscle. Gouty concretions deposited ai'ound joints may also lead to a similar result ; in all these circumstances, however, the articular carti- lages and fibro-cartilages remain persistent;—3rd. The cartilages being removed, and the ends of the bones becoming united by fibrous bands in a man- ner similar to the false union of fractured bones by the same tissue. Such a mode of ankylosis is said to follow the suppuration of joints particularly; and such fibrous tissue has never been known to undergo ossification (Houel); — 4th. The forma- tion of fibrous bands within the joint, as the result of synovitis, attended with more or less deformity and absorption of the articular cartilages ; — 5th. The arrest of the secretion of synovia, and the different alterations of the tissues around the joints, which take place under the various causes quoted above, and which comprise thickening and rigidity of the ligaments and all the fibrous textures, the muscles becoming shorter, paler, degenerated from fatty deposit, the skin contracting remarkably, the nerves even undergoing shortening, while the blood- vessels become tortuous to a corresponding degree. The eflfect of the pathological conditions comprised under the first and second heads will necessarily be tine ankylosis of the joint implicated, while that of the three other groups will be to render the joint more or less completely immoveable; that is, to in- duce a state of true or false ankylosis, just as the tissues are more or less dense and rigid. Partial dislocation may also attend any of these conditions. As a guide to treatment, it is important that the surgeon decide whether the case before him be one of true or false ankylosis. The task is not an easy one. Chloroform is of course a valuable aid; but an examination should first be made without it; for if the patient experience much pain under attempts to move the joint, the surgeon will thus be supplied with one of the best evidences that he has to deal with a false ankylosis: if the joint admit of the least motion (unless there be evidence of external bony deposit around the joint), most surgeons are agreed that the case is to he regarded as one of false ankylosis. Care must be taken to fix the bone above theaffected joint, either by the aid of an assistant, or, as in the case of scapula and pelvis by mechanical contrivances. The persistence, or diminution of the rigidity and contraction in the muscles and tendons around the joint, under the subsequent action of chloroform, will of course aid the diagnosis, immobility alone being no sign of true ankylosis. But if the patient, when con- scious, and with his attention drawn to or diverted from the joint, permit of free manipulation without pain or flinching, and no motion be obtained the operator may confidently conclude that the case is one of true ankylosis.] With regard both to true and false ankylosis the surgeon may generally render more eflicient service in preventing than in endeavouring to cure them.^ In wounds, cmitusions, and fractures of or near joints, the best means of prevention consist MI the rigorous adoption of antiphlogistic treatment at first, and in alater stage in having timely recourse to passive motion of the joint; and then to combine with this plan friction with camphorated and other liniments. When the bones are carious, as in scro-