3 Q 3 hemia the stricture was seated at the neck of the hernial sac. {Clhi. Chir. t. i. p. 558.) This observa- tion also led him to believe, that such stiicture was formed by the neck of the sac itself, in consequence of change in the structure and disposition of this part of the peritoneum. In a recent protrusion, how- ever, it is manifest that the strangulation cannot depend upon any thickening of the neck of the sac. We shall presentlj- find also, notwithstanding the statement of Dupuytren respecting the great fre- quency of strangulation by the neck of the hernial sac, that he takes into the account the pressure made by the sharp margins of the inner ring. Hernia, constituting bulky external swellings, he found less subject to be strangulated in the neck of the sac, than cj'lindrical ones ; but congenital hernia were the most liable of all to a stricture so situated. He remarks, that, whenever the stric- ture is at the neck of the sac, the whole, one half, a third, or a quarter, of the hernia, may be pushed towards the abdomen, whence it afterwards de- scends again ; but that for these circumstances to happen, the tumor must be cylindrical, the inguinal canal wide, and the peritoneal surface not adherent. If, says Dupuytren, the stricture ■were at the external ring, within the canal, or at its upper orifice, the tumor could not undergo such movement, because these parts are nearly unyielding, while the neck of the sac is quite otherwise, on account of the looseness of its con- nections. Dupuytren cautions surgeons not to be deceived by this apparent reduction ; but, to use every possible means to make the parts descend again ; and, if these will not answer, he advises dividing the external ring, and drawing down the intestine. He had been called upon to adopt this practice in more than ten cases in the Hotel Dieu. {Clin. Chir. t. i. p. 565.) Another observation made by this celebrated surgeon, is, that when the stric- ture is situated at the external abdominal ring, the tumor, formed by the hernia, does not reach above this point. All the track of the inguinal canal is undistended, soft, and indolent to the touch, while the external ring itself is closed, hard, and tense. On the other hand, when the stricture is at the neck of the hernial sac, that is, as high upas the superior orifice of the inguinal canal, this canal is always full, hard, and painfuf; and a cylindrical tumor can be felt, directed from below upwards, and from within outwards. So far is the external ring from causing the constriction, that the finger may sometimes be insinuated between its mar- gin and the protruded parts. In some patients Dupuytren found the strangulation existing all along the inguinal canal ; a case, in wliich he recommends tiiat canal to be laid open its whole length. He also notices tlie occasional existence of two strictures, a sliglit one at the external abdominal ring, and a closer one at the nock of the sac. (Op. cit, p. 565.) The recollection of tiio frequent situation of the stricture higiier up than the external ring, is of vast practical importance. I have seen several cases, where surgeons, imagining that tlie exter- nal ring caused the strangulation, divided it, and tlien pushed the hernia seemingly into the abdomen, but in reality only into the inguinal canal. The bad symptoms of course went on, and the patients lost their lives. Dupuytren was present at an operation wiicre the same things happened. Wo sliould therefore, bo careful to NIA. 963 ascertain the seat of stricture, by drawing the protruded bowel gently down, and introducing the finger within the sac. It is observed by Dupuytren, that when the stricture is placed at the upper orifice of the in- guinal canal, the parts sooner become gangrenous, because the edges of this opening are so sharp, that they make great pressure on tlie neck of the sac ; while the external ring, which is wider, and has blunter margins, causes a slower strangulation, and less pressure on the intestine. In the first case, the operation must in general be performed sooner than in the last. {Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. i. p. 566—569.) When the mouth of the hernial sac becomes the seat of stricture. Sir Astley Cooper ascribes the circumstance to its inner part having been thick- ened by the pressure of the tendons of the internal oblique and transverse muscles ; and " if a truss has occasioned much pressure on its outer side, the whole circle of the sac becomes thickened in consequence: thus, the cause of the stricture at the mouth of the sac is occasioned by parts ex- ternal to the sac." {Sir A. Cooper, On Hernia, p. 30, part i. ed. 2.) The common, and probably the beat, practice, is to divide the hernial sac, together with the stric- ture. When this latter is situated at the external abdominal ring, the surgeon is to introduce the end of a director a little way into the neck of the sac, within the aperture in the tendon, and with a probe-pointed bistoury, guided on the director he is to cut the stricture upwards and outwards, or else directly upivards; Sir A. Cooper especially recommends the latter direction, because it is applicable to all cases, even the less frequent ones, in which the hernia protrudes at the inner side of the epigastric artery ; and, in all common instances, we know that this vessel runs upward round the inner side of the neck of the sac ; a course prohibiting the division of the stricture upwards and inwards. In the externa! or oblique inguinal hernia, the method of cutting tlie stricture upwards and out- wards is perfectly safe ; but when the case is what Hesselbach calls internal, and the viscera descend on the inner side of the epigastric arterj', it is a plan, which would endanger the latter vessel, and ought never to be adopted. As the epi- gastric artery ascends between the fascia trans- versalis, and the peritoneum, and not directly behind the tendon of the external oblique muscle, it is manifest, that the external abdominal ring itself may be safely divided in any direction, so far as that vessel is concerned. It is with reference to the division of a stricture more deeply seated at or near the internal ring, that the direction of the cut is of the highest importance in relation to the epigastric artery. Sir A, Cooper's rule of always cutting in one direction, viz. upward, which I believe was first advised by Rougemont, and afterwards by Autenrieth {Dissert. Moment, circa Ilerniotom. pracipuc circa cvitandum Art. Epigastr. Lcvsioncm. Tub. 17!)!)), is an excellent one, because it is easy for the memory, and will answer very well, even when it is not in the power of the surgeon to pronomico positively whether the case is a short-necked external inguinal hernia, or an interiuil one with an oblong oval fis- sure, cases having a great external resemblance to oblique hernia, especially in women, in whom