EAR. 607 the cause of the loss of hearing. Amongst other tilings, it appears, that complete deafness, whether congenital or acquired, more frequently depends tipoii morbid alterations of the soft parts, than upon an\' irregularity in the formation of the bones. Tiuis, in the body of a person, who had been deaf and dumb while living, lloifmnnn found the auditory nerve diminished in size, while every other part of the organ was perfectly natural. Arnemaini found the nerve harder than common. Dr. llaighton met witli an instance, in which the vestibule was filled with a caseous substance. (A Case of original Deafness, in Mem. of the Med. Society, vol. iii. p. 1—15.) Duverney and Sandi- fort found the auditory nerve strongly compressed by a steatoma. In one case, Itard found every part of the ear apparently so natural, that the deaf- ness could not be ascribed to paralysis of the nerve. In another, the infirmity depended upon obstruc- tion of the pa.'sages. In a third, the cavity of the tympanum, and the vestibule, contained small portions of calcareous matter. He has also seen tiie tympanum filled with a thick yellow lymph, or a thin fluid enclosed in membranous cells. In the dissection of the body of a deaf and dumb per- son, Rosenthal noticed amongst other remarkable circumstances, a greater hardness of the auditory, than of the facial nerve, and preternatural firm- ness of the medulla oblongata; thickening of the membrane of the tympanum; the bony roof of the cavity of the tympanum not thicker than paper; and just over the junction of the malleus with the incus, the bony substance was so absorbed, that an appearance like that of membrane alone remained. The mastoid cells, cavity of the tympanum, and the Etist<ichian tubes, contained a limpid j-ellow fluid. In the tympanum, the periosteum vvas thickened, forming small cells around the ossicula, which w-ere of their natural structure. Nothing particular was remarked in the labyrinth. In a small proportion of instances, the above degree of deafness has been traced to anomaly in the structure of the solid parts. Thus, Mundini found the cochlea composed of only one circle and a half (Opiisc. Acad. Donon. 1791, t. vii. p. 422.) Valsalva found the stapes adherent to the fenestra ovalis {De A ure Humana, cap. 11); and Reimnrns relates a case in which the ossicula were entirelv wanting. (_Kunsinhe der Thiere, p. 57.) Mr. Kdward Cock has examined the temporal bones of five children, who died of strumous dis- eases of the thoracic and abdominal viscera, in the Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb. In three in- stances, one or both ears were the seat of scrofulous ulceration, affecting the tympanum and mciitus externum, with partial destruction of the mombrana tympani. In one case, tlie cavity of the tympa- num, together with the mastoid cells, was com- pletely filled with the thick cheesy de|)osit of scrofula, whilst a similar affection pervaded the whole cancellated striu:ture of the petrous bone. The connexions of the ossicula were destroyed, but the bones tliemsolves remained entire. In all the cases examined by Mr. Cock, tlie petrous portions of the temporal bones exhibited nwvc thiin the usual varieties of size and shape. In some, the bone was so deficient in pnrticular spots, as barely to cover the internal cavities, whilst, in others, there was a preternatural osseous development. In one in- stance, the petrous bone of a child, twelve years old, exceeded in size, iiardness, and compactness of structure, that of an adult. One malformation, dis- covered in two cases, consisted in a partial deficiency of two of the semi-circidar canals. Their ex- tremities opening into the vestibule, were perfect, but the central portions were impervious, or rather did not exist at all. In one case the scala tympani was terminated at its larger extremity by a bony septum, which separated it from the tympanum, and occupied the situation of the membrane of the fenestra rotunda. With the exception of tliese malformations, and the scrofulous affections of the tympanum, already mentioned, which were pro- bably of recent occurrence, no deviation from the healthy state could be discovered in either of the five suljjects examined. The Eustachian tubes were pervious ; the bones, muscles, and membranes entire and natural ; the labyrinths were filled with their transparent fluid ; and the auditory nerve pre- sented no peculiarity. The chorda tympani existed in each of the cases ; but the integrity of all its little filaments, passing into the tympanum, and requiring a microscope for their dissection, could not be vouched for. (E. Cock in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xix. p. 152.) In a case, dissected by Mr. Dalrymple, the aqueduct of the vestibule was large enough to admit a small probe ; and, in a later examination of the ear of a child, who died in the Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb, Mr. Cock could find no vestige of the fenestra rotunda on either side, the usual situation of the membrane being occupied by solid bone. The temporal bones were exceedingly large, though soft and spongy. The cavities were extraordinarily capacious, and the Eustachian tubes three or four times larger than common. On one side, the aqueduct of the vesti- bule readily allowed the passage of a large bristle ; but, on the other side, the canal could not be traced through the bone, although its two extremities were more than usually expanded. In one tympa- num, suppuration had taken place. {E. Cock, ih.) See a table in Mr. Toynbee's work on the Diseases of the Ear, and of the morbid condition of the ears of the Deaf and Dumb, as shown by dissection. In the first degree of deafness above described, which, when congenital, must excite suspicion of serious malformation of the organ, and abolition of the nervous influence, and when acquired, indi- cates a complete injury of the functions of the nerve, the prognosis, as Rosenthal observes, must be unfavoiu'able. Nor can it be otherwise in the second coiir/enifal degree of the disease, though only a partial imperfection of the organ and nerve can here be supposed. On the other hand, when the latter degree is acquired, there is more prospect of relief, because merely a partial alteration in the soft parts is to be suspected. 2. Hardness of heariiir;. Rosenthal also distin- gnishes several degices of, what is termed, hardness of hearing. In the first, the patient cannot hear a distant noise, and especially high tones ; but he can perceive, though, it is true, not in a very distinct manner, articulated sounds, when the voice is a good deal raised. In tlie second degree, he hears and distinguishes both high and low tones very well, and also words, but only when the voice is somewhat raised. These two cases are better understood, inasmucli as it is toleraljly well ascertained, that the imme- diate cause of the infirmity is some alteration in that part of the organ which serves as a conductor