FRACTURE. 759 the fibula observed by him, seven-tenths of them happened to the right leg ; only one-tenth were caused by direct violence, such as a blow or the passiige of some heavy body over the limb; tlie remaininc; nine-tenths were produced by indirect force applied to the foot either in the direction of adduction or abduction, six-tenths being caused by violent adductive motions of the foot, three-tenths by similar abductive movements. With respect to the seat of the fracture of the fibula, in five- tenths it was two inches from the lowermost point of the external malleolus ; in three-tenths, below this point; and in two above it. Cases, within two inches of the external malleolus, were often com- plicated with displacement of the foot ; the others but rarelj\ (See Dupuytren, in Annuaire Med. Chir. des Ilopiiaux de Paris, 4to. Paris, 1819 ; also, in Lefons Orales de Clin. Chir, t. i. art. 10, p. 189.) With respect to the first class of cases, i. e. those arising from direct causes, the situation of the fibula on the outer side of the leg, a situation which would seem to expose it much to external violence ; its slenderness ; the interspace left between it and the tibia, at the middle part of the leg ; and the way in which each end of it rests npon the latter bone, would lead one to expect tiiat its middle portion must often be broken ; yet the case is less frequent than might be appre- hended. And, as Dupiiytren observes, there are two reasons for this fact; viz. the protection which the fibula receives from the peronsei muscles, and the rarity of circumstances capable of producing a fracture by a direct cause. These fractures, which are not usually attended with deformity, and, in some cases, even do not hinder the patient from bearing upon the foot, cannot for the most part be ascertained, unless attention be paid to the manner ill which the accident was produced, and to the presence of ecchymosis, and of more or less pain in the part which has been struck or pressed npon ; together with a degree of irregularity of the fibula, perceptible by the fingers, and a more or less distinct mobility and crepitus of the ends of the fracture. The usual causes of this sort of fracture are blows on the fibula, gunshot wounds, the fall of heavy bodies on the outside of the leg, or the pas- sage of them over the same part. The foot may be slightly twisted, either inwards or outwards, but in most instances the accident is not acconipauicd by any of the symptoms so often complicating other fractures of the fibula, produced by distortion of the foot, and is easily cured by means of rest. A striking analogy may be remarked between frac- tures of the central part of the fibula, and those of the corresponding portion of the ulna, and this in respect to causes, symptoms, treatment, and conse- cjiiences. Fractures of the middle of the ulna, like those of the body of tlie fibula, arc always occasioned by blows or falls on the fractured part, or by vio- lence applied directly to the bono. Sucli fractures are scarcely ever attended with any deformity in the limb, incapacity of moving it, or displacement of the fragments; and just as some individuals are able to walk with a broken libuin, others, notwith- standing a fracture of the ulna, are found capable of using their fore-arm nearly as well as if it were free from injury. The latter case, like that of a fracture of the fibula, can only be known by the recollection of the way in which the hurt was re- ceived, the pain, ecchymosis, irregularities, motion, and crepitus, which last effects are also not very obvious so high up the bone. Like fractures of the body of the fibula, those of the body of the ulna only require rest and discutient applications, and very seldom the bandages, &c. necessary in the treatment of fractures of both bones of the fore- arm, or of the radius alone. (Vol. cit. p. 50.) Fractures of the fibula from an indirect cause may happen from the foot being violently twisted either inwards or outwards. In both instances, the cause of the fracture is a change in the direc- tion of the line in which the weight of the body is transmitted. In the first case, the said line, instead of following, as it commonly does, the axis of the tibia and falling upon the astragalus, crosses the lower end of the tibia and the ankle-joint ob- liquely from within outwards, and, after passing across the malleolus externus, extends to the out- side of the member. The parts then supporting the weight of the body are the malleolus externus, and the lower end of the tibia; besides which state of parts, the same malleolus is subjected to the traction of the external lateral ligaments, which operate with great force, in consequence of those ligaments being now nearly at a right angle with the lower end of the fibula. The ligaments pull upon the lower border of the malleolus, while its upper part is pressed upon b)^ the astragalus, which is propelled from within outwards by the tibia. The result is a fracture of the fibula an inch or an inch and a half above the extremity of the malleolus, and nearly opposite the lower edge of the tibia. The latter bone, being thicker and stronger than the fibula, generally resists, and, if the malleolus internus sometimes liappens to break, it is secondarily, as an effect of the displacement of the foot inwards. In the other example, where the foot is twisted outwards, the centre of gravity of the body, in- stead of following its usual course, obliquely crosses the lower end of the fibula, the ankle-joint, and the malleolus internus, and falls on the ground at a greater or lesser distance from the inner edge of the foot. On the one side, the internal lateral ligaments and malleolus, and on the other the lower end of the fibula, are then the parts which have to bear the weight of the whole bodj-, and the force of the muscles ; and they are also the parts which are torn and fractured,—first, the in- ternal lateral ligaments, or the malleolus ; and, secoiullj^ the lower portion of the fibula. [Aiimc- aire Med. Chir. de Paris, 1819, pp. (iC, 07.) Some of the symptoms of a fracture of the fibula, from an indirect cause, depend upon tlie fracture of that bone, and others upon the dislocation of the foot. They are divided by Dupuytron into two kinds ; viz. presumplivo, and charactcrislic. The first are, the way in which the patient received his hurt ; a noise or sort of crack heard by him at the instant of the injury; a fixed pain at the lower part of the fibula; a difficulty or inability of walking ; more or less swelling round the ankle, especially aliout the malleolus externus and lower portion of the fibuhi. 'HUa cliaraciGnsCic si/mploms are, an irregularity and unnalui'.Tt .mobility of some point of the lower cud of the fibula ; a crepitus, which can be more or less distinctly felt by pressing upon and moving the part ; mobility of the whole foot transversely, or horizontally ; a facility of bringing the lower end of the fibula i 3 c 4