Amott, aiid described iu detail by Dr. Walshe ill his worlf. This appears to be more effectual than any means of tlie kind yet employed, and more free from defects. The testimony of Dr. Walshe respecting this mode of proceeding in ap- propriate cases is as follows : — " The effects pro- duced by pressure are removal of existing adhesions, total cessation of pain, disappearance of swelling in the communicating lymphatic glands, gradual reduction of bulky masses to small hard flat patches, or rounded nodules (which appear to be both locally and generally perfectly innocuous), and in the most favourable cases total removal of the morbid production. The relief of pain afforded by this instrument is, without exaggeration, almost marvellous; this effect is insured by the peculiar softness and other properties of the air-cushion, the medium through which the pressure of the spring is transmitted to the surface. Females unable to obtain sleep even from enormous doses of laudanum cease instantaneously to suffer onits appli- cation, and sleep thenceforth as though they were perfectly free from the disease." If the growths be very large, or of the encephnloid species, or in- filtrated instead of tuberous, or if the situation be unfavourable, more than some degree of palliation cannot be hoped for. The same is to be said of growths that are extensively softened, ulcerated, or in a state of fungous vegetation, or are ad- herent to the skin. In one case, treated by Br. Walshe with iodide of arsenic, iodide of lead ointment, and compression, a tumor which, in November, 1843, was fully two inches in breadth and length, had totally disappeared at the end of April, 1844, and had not reappeared there or else- where in August, 1845. M. Velpeau would affirm that such a tumor was not cancerous, principally from the circumstance of its having been thus cured ; but to my mind such scepticism is unrea- sonable. Cuuslics. — M. Velpeau, tliough in most cases preferring the use of the knife, would yet adopt caustics as curative means in certain conditions, which he thus specifies. (L) When the cancer is ulcerated in patches, and is rather sprouting than narrowed ; (2.) when even with a cutting instru- ment it would be impossible to preserve a portion of the integuments of the part invaded by the tumor; (3.) in all cases in which the cancer is fungous, exactly bounded, and the patient has an extreme dread of the knife; (4.) ulcerated, ca- vernous, and disseminated scirrhus may be treated with caustics more advantageously than by in- cision; (5.) ulcerated cancers which are adiierent to the summit of the axilia, or to the clavicle, or extend to the neighbourhood of the boneis. He also r^'cognises the possibility of certain caustics producing "some important action" (alterative) in the tissue around them. On the whole, therrfore, he_ thinks that considerable attention should be paid to this class of remedies. (<«,) Chloride uf vntimony, on account of its deliquescence, is difh- cult to m.nnage, but is very powerful. (6.) Vienna. piiMc and caustic piMish are tolerably manageable, but their action is interfered with l)y the sanguine- ous exudation to which they give rise, (f.) A'ilric acid acts rapidly and deeply, causes no bleeding, and may be applied with tolerable facility if made ijito a paste with lint, tow, or wadding. ((/.) Sulphuric acid mixed with saffron, so as to form a paste, seems to be much used by M, Velpeau. He CANCER. 401 says no other caustic has seemed to liim to possess such advantages. Its action is rapid, energetic, and as deep and extensive as we can desire ; easily limited without giving rise to any bloody dis- charge, and after the succeeding day producing neither inflammatory reaction, redness, pain, nor swelling on or around the cicatrix. I have seen fungous encephaloid cancers larger and thicker than the fist, completely subside in this way, and become reduced to the level of the surrounding parts in the space of twenty-four hours. The eschar shortly sinks in, and forms a black dry ex- cavation, as if carbonised, which remains in place of the tumor. Its disadvantages are, that it causes acute and long continued pain, and is cften dif- ficult to appl}'. (e.) Chloride of zinc. Nothing more needs be said respecting this caustic in addi- tion to what is contained in the original article, except to mention that its use is exceedingly pain- ful, the suffering being prolonged for more than twenty-four or thirtj-six hours. (/) Arsenical p)rcparatioiis have been employed from an early period, and are beyond doubt capable of producing good effects, especially where the cancer is super- ficial. The objections to their use are, that they cause much pain and inflammation in the sur- rounding parts, and that the absorption of more than a certain small quantity of the mineral may cause even fatal poisoning. The various suscepti- bility of different persons to the action of arsenic makes the risk of injurious consequences more to be apprehended ; the quantity which circulates in the blood of one person without injury may affect another severely. The principal preparations that may be employed are Rousselot's powder {arsenic 8 parts, cinnabar 64, dragon's blood 64); Frere Come's [cinnabar 64 parts, arsenic 8, burnt savine \6,drago7i's blood 16); Dubois' {arsenic i parts, cmnahar 64, dragon^s blood 34). These powders are to be made nUo a paste with saliva, and spread like an ointment somewhat thickly on the surface to be destroyed. It is important, however, to operate on a small extent of surface only at one tmie, lest too much arsenic should be absorbed. M. Manec thinks he can prevent all risk of danrrei- from too caily a reapplication of the arsenic by examining the urine daily so as to ascertain when it ceases to be eliminated from tlie blood, which generally occurs from the fourth to the sixth day. This surgeon states that the arsenical caustic he uses (a niiidification of Fiere Come's) " has so strong an affinity for abnormal tissues, and such a predilection that it searches them out in the very midst of the healthy tissues, and poisons and destroys them." The mode of treatment employed by Dr Fell which, as long as it was kept secret, excited" ureat curiosity, requires some notice. In cases of ulcer- ated cancer he uses the following ointment- R .S,u,yumariai Camdcusis .?ss — Sj, /^im-i chloridi 3SS—31.1, aquco 5ij, I'ulv. semin. tritici hibcrni q.s. Mix, and lorm a paste of the consistence of treacle. I his is spread on lint, and the ulcerated surface covered therewith on the first day A superficial layer of the growth is thereby killed On the following days incisions are made about Halt an inch apart, into the necrosed tissue, avoidinir the living structuiea, into which strips of cloth cotton, or wool, saturated with the ointment, are inserted. The deeper parts of the growth are thus attiickcd, the incisions being gradually carried