863 HiEMORRHAGK other hand or with the end of the needle, the part containing the artery against the hone, we make the needle, after passing over this compressed part, and after testing whether it has closed the vessel or not, enter into the tissues heyond, and, if neces- sary, even emerge from the cutaneoas surface on tlie other side, at an angle somewhat oblique to that at which it entered ; thus taking advantage of the resiliency and resistance of the soft textures to make them push the needle with the necessary degree of compression against the artery and bone. Arteries in particular parts require special adjust- ments and modifications to compress them against the neighbouring bone, which only experience can point out. " It has beeu hitherto a difficult problem to ob- struct the vessels of the ovarian ligament in ovario- tomy, without leaving a foreign body, whether clamp or ligature, upon the stalk of the tumor, to ulcerate and slough through it. If the stalk be transfixed and pinned in its whole breadth to the interior of the relaxed abdominal walls, bj' one or more acupressure needles passed through these ab- dominal walls from without, this difficulty may possibly be overcome." Dr. Simpson thus sums up the various important advantages which he conceives acupressure to pre- sent, as compared with the ligature :—" 1st. It will be found more easy, simple, and expeditious in its application than the ligature. 2nd. The needles, in acupressure, can scarcely be considered as foreign bodies in the wound, and may always be entirely removed in two or three days, or as soon as the artery is considered closed; whilst the liga- tures are true foreign bodies, and cannot be re- moved till they have ulcerated through the tied vessels. 3rd. The ligature inevitably produces ulceration, suppuration, and gangrene, at each arte- rial point at which it is applied; whilst the closure of arterial tubes by acupressure is not attended by any such severe consequences. 4th. The chances, therefore, of the union of wounds by the first in- tention should be greater under the arrestment of surgical haraorrhage by acupressure than by the ligature. 5th. Pyseraia and surgical fever seem not unfrequently to be excited by the unhealthy sup- puration, &c. in wounds, which are liable to be set up by the presence and irritation of the ligature. 6th. These dangerous and fatal complications are less likely to be excited by the employment of acupressure, seeing the presence of a metallic needle has not the tendency to create local suppurations and sloughs in the wound, such as occur at the seats of arterial ligatures. And 7th. Hence, under the use of acupressure we are entitled to expect both,—that surgical wounds will heal more kindly and close more speedily; unA, secondly, that surgical operations and injuries will be less fre- quently attended than at present by surgical fever and pysemia." Dr. Oreig, surgeon to the hospital at Dundee, tried acupressure in two cases of amputation of the fore-arm, and in a case of extirpation of the breast, and speaks in the most favourable terms of the facility of arresting ha;morrhage by needles. In a letter to Dr. Simpson, he expresses his intention of employing them in preference to ligatures in all cases under his care. " It is a great comfort," ho says, " to both patient ami siu'geon, that by acu- pressure the artery is closed in about forty-eight hours (a large artery may, of course, require a longer time), and all cause of irritation at once re- moved. In my first case I allowed the needles to remain in for three days; but in future I vi-ill con- sider two days long enough, and, for all I know, perhaps it is longer than is required. "I have now the greatest faith in acupressure. I intend employing it in all kinds of cases that may come under my care, and I will have no fear whatever to use it in my first thigh amputation. " In giving directions for securing the vessel, you advise the surgeon to place the fore-finger over its bleeding mouth, kc. Now you will find it much better, when you have a flap, to keep the finger of the left hand on the skin side, and use the thumb. You feel the vessel beating between the thumb and fore-finger, and you can introduce the needle in the dark." {Medical Times and Gazdle for Feb. 11, 1860, p. 137.) Acupressure has likewise been practised to ar- rest haemorrhage by Mr. Adams, of London; Mr. Edwards, of Dundee; Mr. Page, of Carlisle; Mr. Bickersteth, of Liverpool; Drs. John and James Struthers, of Leith; and Mr. Dickenson Crompton, of Birmingham; who appear to approve of the pro- ceeding. It has not, however, been generally adopted ; nor is it, in my opinion, likely to supersede the use of the ligature, notwithstanding the powerful advocacy of its claims by its talented proposer. Above all things the surgeon desires after his operations to feel assured that his patient is left se- cure from haemorrhage, as regards the principal arteries of a limb. He knows that in his absence a few seconds of bleeding from a main artery will terminate the existence of his patient. No minor advantage in the healing of the wound can compen- sate for the risk and for the painful anxiety attend- mg the idea that he may have left his patient liable to such a catastrophe. The most secure method, the one least liable to accidental disturbance, will always be preferred by the generality of surgeons. The hgatiire properly applied fulfils this all-import- ant requirement. It remains to be proved whether acupressure can be equally depended upon, and whether stumps and wounds, in which acupressure has been resorted to in preference to ligatures, will heal more kindly by the first intention, and will be less likely to be followed by sloughing, by ab- scess, or pyremia. It should be remembered that as many as a dozen ligatures may be required in some operations, and that acupressure needles to this amount must seriously interfere with the ad- justment of the wound; and it is to be feared also that a stump thus circumstanced cannot so readily be supported without disturbing the needles, or in- terfering with the relative pressure exerted by each on the artery it is intended to constrict. Another advantage possessed by the ligature is, that the artery can be selected from the surrounding textures and ahine constricted; while in acupressure the vein, the nerve, and other structures, are equally subjected to pressure with the artery itself. It is but fair to state, however, that this pressure has not hitherto been found injurious, and that no pa- tient has as yet sulFered from a recurrence of bleeding where acupressure has been resorted to although four thigh amputations are included amongst the cases thus treated, — one by Dr. .lames Struthers, of Leith, two by Mr. Dickenson Crompton, of Birmingham, and one just below the trochanters, by Dr. Handyside, of Edinburgh.