662 EYE. says Beer, it is necessary to divide tlie conjunctiva, as they are mostly situated some distance from tlie place of their entrance, and of course are quite covered by that membrane. As soon as a foreign body has been extracted from the eye, all precursors of ophthalmia dimi- nish, as, for instance, the redness, intolerance of light, and the increased secretion and effusion of tears. Even the inflammation itself, when already developed, subsides; but this affection is slight, if the eye has not itself been injured by the extra- neous body. On the other hand, when the eye has suffered more or less irritation from the nature of the substance itself, and the treatment requisite for its complete extraction, the inflammation may become more severe, unless the surgeon pay im- mediate attention to the degree of injury remain ing. {Beer.) According to the principles laid down in the foregoing columns, the first indication in the treat- ment of wounds of the eye in general is to remove every land of extraneous substance, loMch may impede ike cure. Hence, the necessity of observing whether the instrument with which the wound has been inflicted, or any part of it, is lodged in the eye. When this is the case, the foreign body should be quickly extracted, or else no recovery can take place. Beer relates a case, to which he was called, where a piece of tobacco-pipe had been driven so forcibly and deeply at the external canthus between the eyeball and orbit of a young student, aged 19, and of delicate make, that the eye was immediately pushed out of its socket, and on Beer's arrival, it lay with the cornea quite against the nose. Its very position led Beer to "suspect that some extraneous body was lodged in the orbit, and notwithstanding the assurances of all the bystanders to the contrary, and the patient's being afl-'ected with violent spasms, the part was examined with a fine flexible whalebone probe, by which means, a piece of the pipe, nearly an inch in length, was felt and immediately extracted with a pair of forceps. Scarcely had this substance been removed, when the eyeball was spontaneously drawn back into the orbit, though with the cornea still turned towards the nose, and the twitchings of the muscles also in- stantly ceased ; but the eye was blind, and had but a very faint perception of light. By careful treat- ment, the eyesight was restored in five wrcks ; but the eye could nut turn towards the temple, owing to the considerable injury which the external straight muscle had sustained. With the aid of electricity, the power of rotating the eye about half its natural extent outwards was in the end re- gained, and the remaining infirmity resisted every method deemed worthy of trial. [Beer, b. i. p. 146.) See E XOPHTHALMIA. Fragments of broken instruments arc not the only kind of extraneous substances which may lodge in the wounded eye ; for, as Beer observes, when the injury is extensive, contused and lace- rated, there may be splinters of bone, or pieces of membrane, cellular substrinco, muscle, &c. so aetached as to be quite incapable of reunion, on wnieh account this author sets them down as loreign bodies requiring to be taken away. How- ever, I conceive that with respect to the soft parts, tno advice here delivered should be received with much limitiition. Wounds of the eye, like those of most other parts of the body, may be healed either by direct union, or a slower process, in which suppuration, the filling up of the chasm by granulations, and the gradual, but not complete, approximation of Its edges to each other, are the most conspicuous effects. Clean incised wounds may be cured in the first way (see Catar.\ct) ; and lacerated, contused wounds, or such as are attended with loss of substance, in the second. But, whichever plan be attempted, the eye must be kept quiet, and ex- cluded from the air and light. In healthy individuals, small punctures of the eye, made with instruments like needles, and per- forating only the conjunctiva, or cornea, but not reaching the deeper textures of the organ, are generally followed by no serious consequences, even when all the aqueous humor is voided. It is only necessary to keep the eye quiet, and the air and light excluded from it by means of a light compress, suspended over it from the forehead. Under this treatment, such punctures are so firmly closed in twenty-four hours, without any opacitj-, that the chambers are nearly filled again witli aqueous humor, and the intolerance of light, which was only the effect of the loss of that fluid, is entirely removed. In large clean cut wounds of the eye, whe- ther accidental or made in the extraction of cata- ract, the prognosis must be very cautious, and the treatment conducted with the utjnost care ; for, says Beer, it too readily happens, that, tliough the wound is not important in itself, its effects become from the least mismanagement, highly dangerous to the eye. Hence, when the patient is known to be either an individual not likely to take proper care of himself, or one too much alarmed about the fate of his eye, the prognosis should be very guarded, even where the constitution is of the best description, because a violent and dangerous attack of ophthalmia is apt to ensue and destroy the ej-e, sooner than effectual succour can be administered. On the other hand, when the patient is steady and intelligent, and the case is properly' treated, the prognosis is favourable. In considerable cuts of tlie e)'e, it is only pos- sible to promote their union with a suitable band- age, and by effectually preventing all motion of tlie eye and ej-elids, which is best accomplished, when the sound, as well as the injured eye, is covered, and the patient kept quiet in bed until the sides of the wound have grown togetiier. {Deer, b. i, p. 164.) As cases of deeply penetrating wounds of the eyeball itself, Beer enumerates the punctures made in the depression and reclination of cataract, and in every mode of forming artificial pupils ; la- cerations of the conjunctiva with oars of corn, pointed pieces of iron, splinters of wood, &c. In these cases tlie prognosis, he says, is always fa- vourable, when the patient can put himself under all the conditions which the treatment requires, and his constitution is good. The first thing here to be carefully fulfilled, is the removal of any friigmcnts of the instrument or body with which the injuiy has been inflicted, and it should be recollected that, in these cases, minute splinters, which are scarcely discernible, frequently lodge in the conjunctiva, and, if not immediately traced and removed, produce the worst conseijiieiices. With respect to lacerated wounds of the cornea, they either penetrate the anterior chamber, or not.