4G AMP vertical piece of the machine tends to foi'ce the head of the humerus into the glenoid cavity, be- fore it is well disengaged by the extension. AMBLYOPIA (from afigKhs, dull, and Hf, the eye). Hippocrates means by this word, in his Aph. 31, sect. 3, the dimness of sight to which old people are subject. Modern writers generally understand by amblyopia incomplete amaurosis, or the weakness of sight attending cer- tain stages and forms of this disorder. AMMONIiE MURIAS, AMMONITE HY- DROCHLORAS. Sal Ammoniac. Its chief use in surgery is as an external discutient application (See Loiio Ammoii. MuriatcB cum Aceio.) Mr. Justaraond recommends the following application to milk-abscesses : Ammonia Mu- riatis gj. Spiritus Roris marinilb.j. Misce. Linen rags, wetted with the lotion, are continually applied to the part affected. There can be little doubt of the utility of this lotion in dispersing the indur ation left after mammary abscesses ; but while these cases are accompanied with much pain, ten sion, and inflammation, emollient fomentations and poultices are to be preferred. For rubefa- cient purposes, pure ammonia is extracted from the decomposition of muriate of ammonia by means of the soda contained in soap. A plaster is made by combininglj.of soap with 5ij. of common litharge plaster ; and when nearly cold, adding 5j. of mu- riate of ammonia in fine powder. From this nearly 9j. of ammonia in a pure state is slowly evolved, and exerts its action on the skin. (See A. T. Thomson's Elem. of Materia Med. p. 957, ed. 2.) . , . • w If muriate of ammonia be mixed with its weig it of powdered nitre, and dissolved in six or eight parts of water, it produces a very cold lotion, ■which may be used, as a substitute for ice, in cases of strangulated hernia. . AMPUTATION. The operation of cutting ott a limb, or other part of the body, as the breast, penis, &c. . Such an operation frequently becomes indis- pensably proper, on the principle of sacrificing a branch, as it were, for the sake of taking the only rational chance of saving the trunk itsell. Indeed, the suggestion of this measure, in cases of mortih- cation, where there is no chance of the parts reco- vering, may be said to be derived from nature her- self, who, by a process to which I shall advert in speaking of moriificaiion, detaches the dead from the living parts ; this separation is followed by cicatrisation, and the patient recovers. The necessity for amputation has always existed, and ever will continue, so long as the destructive effects of injuries and diseases of the limbs cannot be obviated in any other manner. As Graefe ob- serves, there was once a period when the operation was more frequently practised than at present, and this fact is to be imputed less to the caprice ol surgeons than to the imperfection of the means which used to be employed for the relief of local diseases. For then, aneurisms of the limbs, and some other cases, at present treated with success, were always deemed incurable without amputa *'°As the author of another valuable modern work h'ls said it is an excellent observation founded on the purest humanity, and justified by the soundest professional principles, that to save one lunbis m. finitely mm-e honourabh to the surgeon, iMn to have AMP performed numerous amputations, however success- ful ; but it is a remark fully as true, that it is much better for a man " to live with three limbs than to die with four." {Jlennen on Mililary Surgery, p. 251, ed. 2.) To this should be added the reflection, that some unfortunate beings have been known to submit to the loss of all their legs and arms, and yet recover. In tlie Hotel des Invalides at Paris, mutilated objects are in recol- lection, who had lost all their thighs and arms, so that, unless assisted, they could not stir, and it was necessary to feed and wait upon them, like new-born infiints. {Morand. Opusc. de Chir. p. 183 ; and Graefe, op. cit. p. 23.) The amputation of limbs was anciently practised under many disadvantages. The best Aray of making the incisions was unknown-; the ignorance of the old surgeons about the right method of stopping hemorrhage was the death ef a large pro- portion of the patients who had courage to submit to the operation ; the mode of healing the wound by the first intention was not understood, or not duly appreciated ; and the instruments employed were as awkward and clumsy as the dressings were irritating and improper. Modern practitioners have materially simplified all the chief operations in surgery : an object which has been accomplished, not merely by let- ting anatomical science be the main guide of their proceedings ; not simply by devising more judi- cious and less painful methods ; not only by di- minishing the number, and improving the con- struction of instruments ; but also, in an essential degree, by abandoning the use of a multitude of external applications, most of which were useless or hurtful. But mucli improved as amputation has been, it cannot be dissembled that it is an operational once terrible to bear, disagreeable to behold, and some- times severe and fatal in its consequences, while the patient, if saved, is left for ever afterwards m a crippled mutilated state. Hence it is the sur- geon's duty never to have recourse to so serious a proceeding, without a perfect and well grounded conviction of its necessity. Amputation should be generally regarded as the last expedient to which a surgeon ought to resort ; an expedient justifiable, as a late writer says, only when the part is either already gangrenous, or the seat of so much injury, or disease, that the attempt to preserve it any longer would expose the patient's life to the great- est danger. {Diet, dcs Sciences Med. t. i. p. 472.) Although this amounts to a confession that the cure of some local disorders is not witliin the limits of our art, yet, on the other hand, it furnishes a proof that surgery may be the means of savmg life under circumstances which, without its assist- ance, would infallibly have a fatal termination. Tiio operation is adopted as the safest measure: the cause is removed for the prevention of conse- quences. (Graefe, op. cit. p. 14.) Nothing can be more absurd, or more misap- plied, than the censures sometimes passed upon amputation, because the body is mutilated by ,t, &c Although the objection proves the limitation of human knowledge and ability, it must be very unfair on this account to throw blame on surgery, or the practitioner who thus saves the patients life. For, without dwelling upon the tact tha .a humane surgeon would never amputate througli a mere love of operating, aud without urgent cause.