'HERNIA. 988 cord. In order to obviate this risk, Sir A. Cooper makes a small incision above Poupart's ligament, and draws the cord out of tlie way, of the knife with a bent probe. Mr. Lawrence has noticed that an " incision of tlie most interior part of the stricture is free from all danger in the ordinary course of the vessels. But that variety, in which the obturatrix artery, arising from the epigastric, runs along the inner margin of the sac, seems to preclude us from cut- ting even in this direction." Hesselbach met with a remarkable instance of such irregularity in the origin and course of the obturatrix artery in the body of a female, in whom there were two small crural hernicB. On the right side, the epigastric and obturatrix arteries arose, by a conmion trunk, from the crural artery below Poupart's ligament. They soon separated from one another ; the epi- gastric taking its ordinary course upwards at the outer side of the neck of the hernial sac, while the obturatrix made a considerable tiu-n, and ran transversely inwards over the strong fibres of the femoral ligament, and encircled the anterior and inner side of the neck of the hernia, whence it afterwards proceeded obliquely downwards and outwards, behind the horizontal branch of the os pubis, towards the obturator foramen. (Hessel- bach, p. 52.) A mode of operating has been pro- posed (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. ii. p. 205), with the view of avoiding this danger. We are directed to make an incision through the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, just above the crural arch, and in a direction parallel to that part; to introduce a director under the stric ture from this opening, and to divide the tendon to the requisite extent by means of a curved knife passed along the groove. {On Ruptures, p. 430, ed. 4.) For reasons which Mr. Lawrence states, this plan is certainly not altogether eligible ; and, upon the whole, Gimbemat's method of cutting the stricture is safer. Dupuytren uses a curved probe-pointed bistoury that cuts with its convexity. It is conducted flat on_ the left fore-finger, and with it, under the stricture, and then its edge is turned upwards, the incision being extended through the upper end of the falciform process to the margin of the crural arch. [Breschet, Concours, ^'c. p. 182.) It is remarked by Mr. Guthrie that the falciform process, which lies over the femoral artery, and passes inwards to attach itself to Poupart's liga- ment, and to form the anterior part of Gimbernat's ligament, is inserted also into the os pubis, on a plane lower than the insertion of the inferior pillar of Poupart's ligament, so that " it forms an arch, exterior to the septum crurale, which, when it is forced to descend, is compelled to pass under it; aiul it is this, and ?iot Pouparts liyament, which causes the greatest compression on the hernia, and is the seat of external stricture." (Op. cit. p. 32.) This gentleman lias heard of more than one instance m which the obturatrix artery was wounded by dividing Gimbernat's ligament horizontally. He is therefore in favour of dividing directly upwards that portion of the fascia lata which is attached to Gimbernat's ligament, and to the pubes, as well IS the fascia propria." If this should be insuffi- cient, lie would then have ''•ontal iiiciBion recourse insui to the hori- of cases, in which the origin and course of tl, obturatrix artery are different from what is most common. He found, that when this artery and the epigastric arise by one common trunk, they sometimes separate from each other above, and rarely below, the upper opening of the crural canal. In the first case, the longer their common trunk is, the closer do they lie to Gimbernat's ligament, and to the inner edge of the upper opening of the above canal. In the second case, the common trunk of these arteries arises within this canal, and the two vessels then return into the abdomen. In 160 bodies, of which 87 were male, and 73 female, the obturatrix artery arose on both sides from the hypogastric (internal iliac); and only in 56, of which 21 were male, and 35 female, did it origi- nate on both sides from the epigastric. In 2^5, of which 15 were male, and 13 female, the obturatrix arose on one side from the iiypogastric (internal iliac) and on the other from the epigastric. In six bodies, viz. two male, and four female, it originated from the crural. {Rech. Anal, sur les Hernies, 4to. Paris.) When the obturatrix artery thus arises irregu- larly from the epigastric, it does not always take its course over and to the inside of the neck of the sac. Sir A. Cooper says, " In all cases, which I have myself dissected, where this variety existed with crural hernia, the obturator has passed into the pelvis, on the outer side of the neck of the sac, entirely out of the reach of any danger of the knife." {On Crural Hernia, p. 21.) Mr. Lawrence con- cludes, that the comparative number of instances, ni which it is found on the opposite side, cannot be more than one in twenty, and consequently, if we admit that the obturatrix artery arises from the epigastric once in five times, it would only be liable to be wounded once in a hundred operations (p.412,ed. 3). [The latest and most reliable information on this subject will be found in Mr. Quain's valuable work on the anatomy of the arteries of the human bodj'. Mr. Quain's tables show {Commentaries on the Arte- ries, p. 447) thatoutof 361 dissections,theobturator artery took origin from the internal iliac in 247, or about twice in three dissections, and from the epigastric in 103, or once in three and a half dis- sections. In five instances it arose by two '•oots, one from the internal iliac, and one from the epiga- stric; and in six instances from the external iliac trunk. Again, in 101 cases (p. 451, op. cit) where the obturator artery arose either from the epigastric, or from the external iliac, he found that 10 only were so situated as to render it certain that if a hernia occurred, the neck of the hernial sac would be sur- rounded above and internally by the artery; 54 were situated on the outer margin of the ring, and 37 crossed it, leaving it doubtful in these latter cases on which side of the artery the hernia would pass. It is evident that the artcr3'associated with its veins and accompanying cellular tissue, when crossing midway the femoral ring, must offer an addition.il obstacle to the occurrence of a hernial protrusion at all in this situation. Mr. Quain, on attenipti"? in the dead body to produce a protrusion w f„,'^?i',^ '"dustrious Cloquet examined 250 bodies, tlie purpose of estimating the average number here tliis position of the artery existed, found that )t could be effected with greater facility on the inside than on the outside of the artery. In other words, tliat tlie attachment of the artery to the cpigastr/c, rendered it more difficult to displace it iu the inw.iri'