554 DISLOCji pyriformis above, the sciatic nerve before (sup- posinpr the body upright), the trochanter major and insertion of the gluteus medius external and pos- terior. Here the displaced head of the bone had been lodijed. The fleshy substance of the geraini and quadratus muscles was found torn across. The pyriforraisand obturator internus were perfect. The internal and upper part of the capsular ligament was ruptured ; the external' portion remained un- broken." The ligamentum teres was torn from its insertion into the dimple of the head of the femur, but not itself ruptured. The same fact was exem- plified in Mr. Todd's case. The brim of the ace- tabulum at the upper part was fractured to the ex- tent of about an inch; and the fragment lay loose, and nearly unconnected. A fracture also traversed the acetabulum. [Allusion has already been made to a case of dislocated hip, in which Lisfranc carried the attempts at reduction so far, that suppurative in- flammation took place around the joint, and the patient died on the 11th day, the dislocation re- maining unreduced. In the dissection, which has been described by M. Malgaigne, the head of the bone was situated between the cotyloid cavity and the ischiatic notch, scarcely reaching so high as the summit of the notch. It rested partly upon the bone, partly upon the pyriformis and lower edge of gluteus medius,the latter being slightly pushed up- wards. The capsule, uninjured above and behind, was open, below, and the head of the femur had evidently escaped downwards through the aper- ture in its lower part, and had subsequently mounted upwards behind it. Direct extension brought the bone opposite to its cavity, but the capsule then became stretched tensely across it, and constituted an insuperable obstacle to the reduction, which was only practicable on the dead body, by bending the thigh until it was nearly in contact with the abdo- men. {Traiie des Fract, S^c. t. ii. p. 817, and PI. xxvi.) In the Museum of St. Thomas's Hospital is a specimen of dislocation towards the ischiatic notch, which was met with accidentally by Sir A. Cooper, in a subject brought for dissection. The disloca- tion had probably existed many years. The origi- nal acetabulum is entirely filled with a ligamentous substance, so that the head of the bone could not have been returned into it. The capsular ligament is torn from its connection with the acetabulum at its anterior and posterior junction, but not at its superior and inferior. The ligamentum teres is broken, and an inch of it still adlieres to the head of the bone. The head of the femur rests behind the acetabulum on the pyriformis muscle, at the edge of the notch, above the sacro-sciatic ligaments. The trochanter major is placed rather behind the acetabulum, but inclined towards it. (0« Dislo- cations, p. 53, 10th ed.)] Reduction of the dislocation hachivards and up- wards.—To, reduce this dislocation, the patient should be placed on his back upon a table lirmly fixed, or a large four-posted bedstead. A sheet, folded longitudinally, is first to be placed under the perineum; and one end being carried behind the patient, the other before him, they are to be fastened to one of the legs or posts of the bed. Thus the pelvis will be fixed, so us to allow the necessary extension of the thigh-bone to be made. Great care must be taken during the ex- tension to keep the testicles, or the pudenda in women, from being hurt by the sheet passed under the perineum. The patient must be further fixed by the assistants. In France, Germany, and Ireland, the extend- ing force is applied to the inferior part of the leg, in order that it may be as far as possible from the parts which resist the return of the head of the bone into its natural situation. In this country surgeons generally prefer making the extension by means of a sheet, or the strap of a pullej-, fastened round the limb just above the condyles of the os femoris. The direction in which Sir A. Cooper makes the extension, is in the line made by the limb, when it is brought across the other thigh a little above the knee. As soon as the head of the bone has been brought on a level with the aceta- bulum by the assistants, who are making the ex- tension, the surgeon is to force it into this cavity by pressing on the great trochanter; or by rotating the knee and foot gently outwards. The extension should always be made in a gradual and unremitting manner: at first, gently, but afterwards more strongly; never violently. The difficulty of reduction arises from the great power and resistance of the muscles, especially the glutei and triceps, which will at length be fatigued, so as to yield to the extending force, if care be taken that it be maintained the necessarj^ time, without the least intermission. Sometimes, when there is difficultj'^ in bringing the head of the bone over the lip of the acetabulum. Sir A. Cooper raises it by placing his arm under it near the joint. For the dislocation into the ischiatic notch Sir A. Cooper recommends the extension to be made downwards and forwards across the middle of the other thigh, so as to dislodge the head of the bone, while the surgeon, with a napkin, placed just below the trochanter minor, pulls the upper part of the femur towards the acetabulum. In this case pulleys are preferable for making the extension. [The principle to be followed is to draw the bone towards the acetabulum in the opposite direc- tion to that in which it has passed in escaping from it; therefore, if it has passed upwards towards the dorsum ilii, the extension may be made nearly in the straight line downwards, or across the opposite knee ; while in proportion as it has passed back- wards towards the ischium, the extension should be made across the middle or upper part of the oppo- site thigh, or even nearly at a riglit angle with the trunk of the ho&y. When the line chosen for the extension nearly corresponds to the axis of the trunk of the bod}% the patient may lie upon his back; but when the thigh is to be flexed upon the pelvis, it is more convenient to place him on his sound side. When the extension is made across the opposite thigh, it may be found advantageous, in order to lift the head of the femur over the edge of the acetabulum, to make use of the opposite limb as a fulcrum, over which, by acting upon the lower end of the dislocated limb and pressing it inwards, the upper end may be tilted outwards with consider- able force, and more effectually than by merely lifting it with a towel or napkin.] The disappearance of all the symptoms, and the noise made by the head of the bone, when it slips into the acetabulum, denote that the reduction is effected. This noise, however, is not alwaj's made when pulleys are used or the patient is faint. The bone is afterwards to be kept from slipping out