144 ANEURISM. not generally cause impede the functions "miicli pain, nor seriously ....^.^-^ ...^ of the limli. Bwt when it has increased, several complications are produced. Thus, the dragging of the long saphenous nerve, by femoral aneurisms, frequently occasions acute pain in the course of this nerve as far as the great toe. The distention of the sciatic nerve by the popliteal aneurism, sometimes brings on intole- rable pain, which extends to all the parts to which the nerve is distributed, and which can hardly ever be appeased by the topical use of opiate ap- plications. Pain is often one of the earliest symp- toms of aneurisms ; it is of two kinds, either lancinating, darting, and radiating along the course of the nerves that are compressed by the tumor, or else of a boring, wearing, gnawing, character, from the compression and erosion ot the neigh- bouring parts by the increase of the sac. The first pain is usually intermittent, the second variety is permanent. The compression of the vems and lymphatics give rise to osderaa, numbness, and coldness of the limb. And, finally, the long- continued pressure of the aneurism on the neigh- bouring bones causes their destruction. {Boyei; t. ii. p. 105.) In true or spontaneous aneurism, the coats of the artery are not always in the same state, the kind of changes observed depending upon the progress of the tumor. In the early stage of the disease, either the whole cylinder of the vessel, or only a part of its circumference, is dilated; but this period is trenerally of short duration, especially in arteries of middling size, because their middle coat is ca- pable of less resistance than that of the larger arteries like the aorta, where this coat is yellowish, firm, and very elastic. As Breschet remarks, this diiference of resistance in the middle coat of the aorta, and the branches given off from it, accounts for the rarity of true aneurisms either in the small ar- teries, or those of middling size, and their greater fre- quency in the principal trunk of the arterial system. - At length, in consequence of the increasing dis- tention, some of the coats of the artery possessing the least elasticity give way ; and these are found to be the internal and middle coats; while the ex- ternal one still makes resistance, and continues to be more and more dilated by the lateral impulse of the blood. The second stage of true or spontaneous aneurism is that in which the surgeon is usually consulted ; that in which the tumor increases more i-apuUy, and therefore begins to excite greater attention. 1 he dis- ease has now made its way through the internal and middle coats of the artery, and the external coat yields with more facility. In this stage, if the artery be only covered by a serous membrane, which soon gives way, the patient's life is endangered, and death often brought on by the rupture of the tumor. Examinations of the dead subject under these circumstances, have frequently led to mistaken notions; and, doubtless, if various swellings of this kind had not been found in different degrees, or Stages, in the same individual, one might have been disposed to join Scarpa in the belief, that no aneurism consists of a dilatation of all the arterial coats {Breschet, Fr, Transl. of Mr. Hodgson's HVA,p. 12fi, 129.) . , , ; The change of an aneurism Irom the circura scribed into the difl:used state is indicated by a sudden reduction, or stoppage of the pulsations of the tumor, often preceded by a sensation of some thinn- breaking, or giving way in the limb, which becomes all at once very painful. The temperature of the foot suddenly falls, and the swelling un- dergoes a rapid increase, and also becomes more diffused. The two latter circumstances may indeed not be very obvious, when the limb is already very cedematous, or the aneurismal sac has given way in a deep situation, and the blood has escaped into the cellular tissue between the muscles and under the fascia. In these cases, however, there is always some point of the leg or foot marked by a livid discoloration; and as the distention of the cellular tissue with blood, and the augmented interruption of the circulation in the limb, bring on a tend- ency to gangrene, the patient's pulse becomes accelerated. Here the danger of mortification is much greater than when the sac bursts, and the blood, instead of passing extensively into the cellular tissue, accumulates in one mass. Mr. Lawrence communicated to the Med. Chir. Society an instance in which the mass of blood collected in the thigh was so enormous after the giving way of a femoral aneurism under the skin, that, when the coagula were removed, by means of a free incision, some time after the artery had been tied, the finger could be passed nearly all round the thigh-bone. But, notwithstanding this mass of blood, and profuse suppuration, the patient re- covered. The sudden extravasation of so large a quantity of blood into the substance of a limb by an aneurism becoming diffused, may occasion fatal syncope. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvi. p. 321.) When the sac of an aneurism has burst in the foregoing manner, the propulsion of blood into it from the heart can evidently no longer have the effect of producing a full and sudden distention of it, as more or less of that fluid will either escape from it into the cellular membrane, or collect in one mass out of the aneurismal cavity. In general, however, the pulsations are only weakened at first and several days elapse before they entirely cease. Another cause that has a powerful effect in putting an end to the pulsations, is an increase in the quantity of coagulated blood and flbrine in the sac; the inevitable result of the stream of blood through it becoming more and more retarded m proportion as the obstruction of the circulation in the leg augments. In cases of doubt whether the reduction and stoppage of the pulsation are owing to the circumstances here adverted to, or to the sac having become filled with lamellated blood, without any rupture of it and change of the aneurism from the circumscribed to the diffused state (a condition promising the accomplishment of a complete cure), the stethoscope should be employed, whereby, m the former case, the sound of the jet of blood into the sac, the bellows-sound, as it is termed, will be perceived. This symptom, with others to which I have adverted, would render the state of things sufficiently clear. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvi. p. 320, &c.) , , , A false aneurism is always attended with at least a rupture, or giving way of the inner coa of the vessel, and usually with a breach in both this and the muscular coat, the outer elastic tunic forming the pouch in which the blood collects. But, after the swelling l>««/"f"«^ " certain size, this coat also bursts, and then he blood either becomes diffused, or a 'n'S'^ " " scribed space is formed for it by the condensation of the surrounding cellular membrane, 1 also