748 Holland in the year 1814, could not have been at all retanied by any apparatus put merely upon the thigh Itself. The superiority of long splints, ex- tendnig the whole length of the limb, was in these cases particularly manifest. With such splints, which maintain steady the fracture itself, the knee,- leg, ankle, and foot, the patient may, in fact, even be removed upon an emergency from one place to another, without any considerable disturbance of the broken part. But how could this be done in Pott's position, with short splints, merely applied to the thigh, affording no support to the leg, and not confining the motions of the knee and foot ? It was observed by Desault, that, if we compare the natural powers of displacement with the arti- ficial resistance of almost every apparatus, we shall find that the disproportion between such forces is too great to let the former yield to the latter. The ^ action of the muscles, however, which is always at first very strong, he conceived might a'terwards be gradually overcome by extension being kept up. A power incessantly operating can effect what another greater power, temporarily applied, can- not at once accomplish, and the compression of circular bandages tends also to lessen the force of the muscles. Desault cured an immense number of fractured thighs without any kind of deformity. This suc- cess was chiefly ascribed to the well-combined employment of extension and compression of the muscles. The advantage of keeping the muscles a long while extended, in order to diminish their power, seemed to him particularly evident in the reduction _ of certain dislocations, as those of the shoulder, in which we often cannot succeed till the muscles liave been kept on the stretch for a greater or lesser time. The fracture of the patella and olecranon equally demonstrates the utility of com- pression for the same purpose; as, when the mus- cles are not steadily compressed by the bandage, they draw upward the fragment of bone with double or triple force. To the treatment of fractured thighs in the bent posture, Desault entertained the following objec- tions : the difficulty of making the extension and counter-extension when the limb is so placed; the necessity of then applying them to the fractured bone itself, instead of a situation remote from the fracture, as, for example, the lower part of the leg; the impossibility of comparing with precision the broken thigh with the sound one, in order to judge of the regularity of its shape; the irksomeness of this position long continued, though it may at first seem most natural; the inconvenient and painful pressure of a part of the trunk on the great tro- chanter of the affected side; the derangement to which the limb is exposed when the patient has a motion; the difficulty of fixing the leg firmly enough to prevent the effect of its motion on the thigh-bone; the manifest impossibility of adopting this method when both thighs are fractured; the unfavourable results of the trials of such posture made in France; and, what is gained by the relaxation of some muscles, is lost by the tension of others. According to Desault, an apparatus which doe.i not execute permanent extension may suffice for transverse fractures; but is always ineffectual when lie division is oblique, because it does not fulfil FRAOTITRE. th tlie twofold indication of drawing downward the one upward. He inculcated that the object par- ticularly to be aimed at was such a disposition that the foot, leg, thigh, and pelvis should constitute but one whole; so that, though the difl^erent parts thereof might be drawn in different directions vet they would still, with respect to one another pre- serve the same mutual relation; and he invented the loilowing apparatus to answer these purposes A strong splint, long enough to extend fiom the crista of the os ilium to a certain length beyond the sole of the foot, and rather more than two inches and a half broad, with each of its extremities pierced in the form of a mortise, and terminating in a semi- circular niche, is a principal part of Desault's ap- paratus. It is applied to the exterior side of the thigh, by means of two strong linen rollers, each more than a yai^d long. The middle part of one roller is applied to the inside of the thigh at its upper part; its ends are brought to the°exterior side of the thigh, passed through the mortise, and knotted on the semicircular niche. Pads are to be previously placed under its middle part, in order to prevent any disagreeable pressure; as well as on the tuberosity of the ischium, which Des.ault considered as the principal point of action of this band. The inferior part of the leg is next covered ■ with pads, on which the middle part of the second roller is placed, the extremities of which cross on the instep and upper part of the foot, then on the sole; after which they are conveyed outward, and one end passed through the mortise, and knotted with the other on the niche, with such a degree of force as to pull the inferior portion of the femur downward, and push the splint upward, and by this means, the pelvis, and superior portion of the fractured bone. On the internal side of the limb is placed a second splint, which extends from the superior part of the thigh to a certain distance beyond the foot. A third is placed on the anterior part of the limb, from the abdomen to the knee. The superior ex- tremities of the anterior and exterior splints are fixed by means of a bandage passed round the pelvis. A roller, the middle part of which is placed under the sole of the foot, and the extremities crossed on its superior surface, and fastened to the splints, operates with them in preventing the foot from moving. Before applying the apparatus, Desault covered the whole limb with linen, wetted with a solution of the acetate of lead. Over these, Scultetus's bandage was put, and a roller round the foot, all wetted with the same lotion. (See farisuiu Chtr. Journal, vol. i. CEuvres Cliir. de Desault par Dicliat, t. i. Rosaliiio Ciardiiia, Afcmoiia sulla Fnitltire, con alouiie Modifmizione alt Apparatu di Desaidt. 8vo. Palermo, 1814. Doyer, Maladies Chii: t. iii.) In University College Hospital, Desault*s method somewhat modified, and in particular without the employment of the wetted many-t^iiled baiid.'ige, is coniiiioiily preferred. Dr. Houston, who is an advocate for the same practice, has lately published some interesting cases and observations relative to the treatment of fractures generally, and in parti- cular to the question concerning the advanlagos of one kind of posture over another. Dr. Houston conceives that they will tend to settle what is the bcht mode of preventing early spasms, pain, and fever, and of securing for the patient, after the cure, the most seemly and useful condition of the limh ; whether that of" leaving the broken bone, during the first day, in the predicament in which it has been