ANEURISM. 201 tlier instance of this vessel being tied in tlie case f a wound ; but mortification of the limb and ath followed. Three of the nerves were found ::cludod in the ligature. {Loiul. Med.Journ. v. 4.) in cases of wounds of the axillar}', or an)' other large arteries of the extremities, the surgeon, before pro- ceeding to apply a ligature, should first ascertain the precise place of the wound in the artery; and, ior this purpose, it may sometimes be proper, in certain wounds of the shoulder, to make an incision in the axilla, so as to expose the injured part of the vessel; or, if circumstances do not forbid it, the external wound may be dilated, until the exact part where the artery has been wounded is dis- covered. In proof of the propriety of acting in this manner, and applying a ligature above and below the wound in the vessel, Scarpa quotes a case in which such practice was successful on a patient under M. Maunoir, of Geneva: the artery had been injured with a sabre near the head of the humerus; but, after the wounded part of the vessel had been traced, and secured in the way above suggested, the patient, a boy foiu'teen years of age, was saved from the dangers of hemorrhage, and recovered the use of his arm, as fast as this was possible, with the loss of the first phalanges of the three last fingers from gangrene. (See Scarpa, On Aneurism, p. 412, ed. 2; and Joum. da Med. t. xl. Mars, 1811.) There are two modes for operating for axillary aneurisms: one, by cutting below the clavicle, in order to take up the axillary artery itself; the other, by making the wound above the bone, for the purpose of securing the subclavian artery at the point where it emerges from behind the ante- rior scalenus muscle. The first of these methods has been attempted by Desault, Pelletan, the late Mr. Thomas Keate, Mr. Chamberlaine, &c. In a case of wound of the axillary artery, Desault made an incision, six inches long, below the external third of the clavicle ; two thoracic arteries cut were immediately tied ; the two lower thirds of the great pectoral muscle were next divided with a bistoury guided on a director: a large quantity of coagulated blood was now dis- charged ; and the artery was directly taken hold of and tied, together with the brachial plexus of the nerves. The arm mortified, and the patient died. This case, we must agree with Scarpa, was not a^ fair trial of the operation, inasmuch as the inclusion of the plexus of nerves in the ligature was an improper measure, and must have pro- moted the occurrence of sphacelus. It seems also probable, from the account, that the vein was likewise tied ; another serious and objectionable proceeding. Resides, it is worthy of notice, that the case was a wound of the axillary artery, at- tended with a copious effusion of blood in the cellular membrane. In all examples of this kind, g<.igrene is more readily induced, than when the case is merely a circumscribed aneurismal tumor. (See lEiivrcs Ckir. de Desault, par Bkhul, t. ii. p. 553.) As f(ir Pelletan's example, it hardly de- serves recital, because the operation in fact was not achieved. Jlis colleagues objected to dividing the pectoral muscle; a random thrust was made with a needle and ligatin-e ; and the artery was not included. (See Cliniime Ckir. t. ii. Ohs. 7 p. 4.0.) In a case of axillary aneurism, which had ac- tually burst, and the hemorrhage from which could only be stopped by pressing the artery against the first rib, the late Mr. Thomas Keate, surgeon- general, practised the following operation, which was attended with complete success. His plan was to take up the artery, above the diseased and ruptured part, in its passage over the first rib. Ac- cordingly he made an incision obliquely downwards; divided the fibres of the pectoral muscle that were in his way; and, when he came to the artery, passed a curved, blimt-pointed silver needle, armed dou- ble, as he conceived, under the artery, and tied two of the ends. After a careful examination, finding that the artery pulsated below the ligature, he determined on passing another ligature higher up, and nearer to the clavicle: he therefore passed the needle more deeply, so as evidently to include the artery. In a few days the swelling of the arm began to subside, the wound suppurated, and the ligatures came away with the dressings. The arm afterwards recovered its feeling, and the patient regained, in a great measure, the entire motion of the shoulder, &c. (See Med. Review and Ma- gazine for 1801.) This method is objectionable, inasmuch as it was a dive made with a needle, and attended with great danger of wounding and tying parts which should be left undisturbed. Mr. R. Chamberlaine, of Kingston, Jamaica, took up the axillary artery below the clavicle, in a patient who had an aneurism in the left axilla, occasioned by a wound with a cutlass on the 5th of October, 1814. On the 10 th of January, the tumor had considerably increased, and was less compressible than it had been when first seen by Mr. Chamberlaine. The operation was done on the 17th of January, 1815. "A transverse inci- sion, of three inches in length, was made through the skin and platisma myoides, along and upon the lower edge of the clavicle, three finger-breadths from the sternal end of that bone, and terminating about an inch from the acromion scapute. This incision divided a small artery, which was imme- diately secured. A second incision, of three inches in length, was also made obliquely through the integuments over the deltoid and pectoral muscles, meeting the first nearly in the centre. The cel- lular membrane and fat, lying between them at the upper part, were now removed. The next step consisted in detaching the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major, and taking away the fat and cellular membrane lying over the subclavian vessels. The artery was now brought into view, and its pulsations made it clearly distinguishable from the contiguous parts." After several in- effectual efforts, Mr. Chamberlaine succeeded in conveying a ligature under it, by means of an eye- probe, curved for the purpose, and the point of which was brought up with the aid of a pair of forceps. On the ■22nd of February, the wound was completely healed; the aneurismal tumor reduced to the size of a turkey's egg, and very solid; the arm smaller than its fellow, but its muscular power improving. (See Medico-Chir. Trans, vol. vi p. 128, &c.) Mr. Chamberlaine expresses his conviction, that the operation would have been inuch fiicilitated had he been furnished with the instruments described in Mr. Rnmsdon's work for passing the ligature under the artery: a still better invention, however, for passing a ligature under a deep artery, is the needle constructed by Mr. Weiss surgeons' instniincut-nKiker in the iStrand. An engraving and description of this valuable instru-