ANTRUM. 251 l ises, whether nil the tumora were malignant, or Illy a part of them ? Those which were perma- .'iitly cured might have been of a different nature, it partaking of tlie cliaracter of medullary sar- >ma, nor of that of carcinoma. With respect to Desanlt's operation, and any otlier performed for a medullary, or cancerous tumor of the antrum, it wonld have been de- sirable to know what was the state of the patient siinie considerable time after the removal of the swelling; for, as Sir Benjamin Brodie correctly observes, a malignant disease may appear to be cured for a twelvemonth, and yet return. The circumstance of Desault's patient seeming to be v. ell four months after an operation of this kind, bv no means proves that it produced a permanent cure. (SeeLond.Med. Gaz.for Dec. 1834,p. 351.) Dr. Anderson, of Glasgow, has furnished inform- ation respecting the case in which he extirpated a fungous tumor from the antrum after it had produced complete absorption of the bone. " This patient died of pectoral inflammation,_^i;e years and a half a/lenvards, when she had just recovered from the operation of removing nearly the whole of the loiver jaw. On a minute examination of the antrum, the former disease was found to have iieen permanently cured by the operation." (A?i- 'rrson, mLond. Med. Gaz.for Feb. 1835.) Hence, Dr. Anderson disapproves of leaving a patient, even with such a tumor, to his fate. Sir Benjamin Brodie formerly attempted to de- stroy a malignant tumor of the antrum in its early stage. The bone being absorbed, he cut out a large portion of the membrane, which now constituted the only boundary of the antrum. He now came to a considerable tumor, growing from a broad surface. " The outer part of the tumor, which was of soft consistence, I broke down with my fingers, and I then turned the tumor out, so that the antrum appeared to be perfectly empty. But this was not done without an enormous, and, in- deed, frightful hemorrhage." Notwithstanding the free use of caustic and the actual cautery, the disease returned and grew faster than it could be destroyed, and proved fatal. Mr. Listen's ob- servations are to the same purpose. The malignant form of the disease, even in a very early stage, is pronounced by him to be unmanageable : " The tumors, if removed, are speedily reproduced, and the fatal termination may be accelerated by inter- ference. I have removed tumors from tlie antrum maxillare, and from the frontal sinus ; but the parts soon became occupied by morbid growths of a more formidable character than the preceding ; the membrane and bone appear to assume a disposi- tion to generate such disease; and the fungous pro- trusions cannot be kept down with escharolics, nor with the actual cautery. The antrum, when filled with such tumors, is easily laid open. ^ The cheek is divided perpendicularly from over the inferior orbitar foramen to the month, and the soft parts are dissected from o(F the bone. The cavity may then ho exposed by means of a small trephine ; but tliis instrument is scarcely ever re- quired, the parictes being so softened as to yield easily to the knife : though pliers, or cutting for- ceps, may be useful in enlarging the aperture. By the guidance of the finger, the attachments of the morbid growth are separated with a blunt-pointed bistoury; and a scoop is used to turn out the dis- eased mass. The root of the tumor is then touched with a red-hot iron j and by this imple- ment, or by dossils of lint, the hemorrhage is easily arrested. But such operations, considering the re- sult of those which have been practised, a>'e scarce/*/ justifiable.'" (See Liston's Mem. part. ii. p. 158.) Mr. Listen delivers the same judgment on the operation of removing a malignant tumor of the antrum, along with its investment, and every part of the bone to which it is connected. " The dis- ease," says he, " is seldom, if .ever, seen by the surgeon early enough to admit of any operation being practised with the least chance of ultimate success. At a sufficiently early period, the re- moval of the bone of the parietes of the cavity containing, and from which the tumor has grown, must, without doubt, aiFord a better chance, and is, in every point of view, to be preferred to the old operation of what was called trephining the antrum." The view which I now entertain of this subject, in relation to malignant tumors of the antrum, completely agrees with that taken by Sir Benjamin Brodie and Mr. Listen. If a case were needed to confirm the accuracy of their opi- nions, I would refer to that in which Mr. Guthrie lately operated in the Westmiuster Hospital, and who has honestly laid the true result of it before the public, as every other surgeon ought to do who ventures to try the practice. (See Guthrie, in Lond. Med. Gax. for January 16, 1836.) The example in which M. Georgi operated, it seems, was followed by a lasting cure ; but, as M. Gen- soul remarks, there was a double piece of good luck in this instance ; viz. that of a necrosis of the bone taking place to a sufficient depth to prevent the return of the disease, and the not less for- tunate circumstance of such necrosis being re- stricted precisely to the half of the face. (See Gensoul, Sur que/ques Mai. Graves du Sinus Maxil. p. 19.) The case recorded in the £id- letins de la Facidte. de Med., where Baron Du- puytren removed about one third of the alveolary arch and the bony palate, in order to extirpate an osteo-sarcoma, proved successful; but some forms of this disease are not regarded by British patho- logists as partaking of the same degree of malig- nancy, the same unfavourable state of the con- stitution, and the same disposition to return, as attend medullary sarcoma and a truly cancerous swelling. The operations performed by Acoluthus, of Breslaw, and M. Garengeot, of Paris, are re- ported to have terminated in cures. M. Gensoul, lately principal surgeon of the Hotel Dieu at Lyons, instead of merely openinn- the antrum, cutting away as much of the tumor as possible, and attacking the rest with caustic or the cautery, proposed and practised another oper- ation, founded on the same principles as are re- cognised by the best surgeons as applicable to every operation for the removal of a cancerous breast. "Here," says ho, "all writers agree in advising amputation to be pcrrormod at the base of the disease, so as to make all the incisions in the sound parts; and this is exactly what I recommend to be done in diseases of the maxillary sinus." {Sur quc/qiies Maladies (/raves du Sinus Maxillaire, p. 4.) Gensoul's first operation was executed on the 26tli of May, 1827. (Op. cit. p. 18.) Mr. liizars advocated this operation in the year 1826, but had no opportunity of perforniing it till the month of December, 1827. This subject I shall have occasion to return to in another place, where