HYDROPHOBIA 3y 4 then the first would be preferred as being a harm less adjuvant to the necessary treatment by de struction of the part bitten. ] When once the hydrophobic symptoms have commenced, there is little or no hope of saving the patient, the disease having almost invariably baffled every plan of treatment, which the united talents of numerous medical generations have sug gested. All the most powerful medicines of every class have been tried again and again: mercury, opium, musk, camphor, arsenic, the nitrate of sil- ver, cantharides, belladonna, ammonia, plunging the patient in the sea, bleeding, &c. &c. The inefficacy of opium is now generally ac knowledged. In the space of fourteen hours. Dr. J. Vaughan gave one patient fifty-seven grains of opium, and also half an ounce of laudanum in a glyster, but the fatal termination, of the disease was not -prevented. Dr. Babington even pre- scribed the enormous quantity of 180 grains in eleven hours, without the least amendment, or even any narcotic effect. {Med. Records and Researches, p. 121). On the very first day that rabies de. cidedly showed itself, in a man who had been bitten by a mad dog, Dupuytren injected into the vena sapheena, by means of Anel's syringe, two grains of the extract of opium dissolved in distilled water, and as a degree of calm appeared to be the result, four grains more were thrown into the cephalic vein. The patient remained perfectly tranquil three hours longer, but the symptoms afterwards recurred with increased violence. The next morn- ing about six or eight grains more were dissolved and thrown into the circulation; but all was in vain, as the patient died in three quarters of an hour after the last injection. {Bee Diet, des Sciences Med. t. xlvii. p. 131.) By Dr. Brandreth, a solution of the acetate of morphia has been more recently tried, without success. (See Edin, Med. Jour. No. Ixxxii. p. 76.) As for belladonna, its employment for the pre- vention and cure of h3'drophobia is very ancient; its external use for this purpose having been men- tioned by Pliny, and its internal exhibition, with the same view, by Theod. Turquetus, in a posthu- mous work published in 1696. (See Praxeos Medicce Syntagma, ^c.) In 1763 belladonna was recommended by Schmidt, as a remedy for hydro- phobia, and in 1799 by J. H. Munch. (See Richter's Chir. Dibl.) It has so frequently failed, that, in this country, very little confidence is now put in it; but in Italy it is still employed, and in some cases published by Brera, where it was ex- hibited in very powerful doses, in conjunction with the warm bath and mercurial friction, tend to show that it will sometimes arrest the disease in its incipient state. {Mem. Soc. Ital. Scienm Mo- dena, t. xvii.) Some years ago the public hope was raised by the accounts given of hydro-chlorine or oxy muriatic acid. Wendelstadt even published the story of an Englishman, who allowed himself to be bitten several times by a mad dog,'and then saved himself by washing the bites with this acid. And still more recen tly, B rugna tel I i (Italian Journal of Physic and Chemistry, &c. t. ix. p. 324), has published some observations tending to prove its efficacy. The bites are washed with it, and then covered with charpie wet with it; and when the symptoms com- mence, if it cannot be swallowed in a fluid form Brugnatelli gives bread pills imbued with it. For 1068 a child eight years old the dose is 91j, four or five times a-day, but gradually increased. According to Orfila, hydrochlorine was long since recom- mended by Cluzel, as an internal remedy for hy- drophobia. (Secours a donne.r aux Personnes em- poisonnees, ^c. 8vo. Paris, 1818, p. 153.) With regard to Brugnatelli's cases, they are said to be so destitute of precision that no inference can be drawn from them. (Diet, des Sciences Med. t. xlvii. p. 119.) In order to give hydrochlorine a fair trial, it was used internally and externally on seven patients, in the Hotel Dieu at Lyons, in 1817. The bites were washed and bathed with it, and some of them also cauterized, and each patient took daily a drachm of the acid, made into an agreeable sweetened drink. All these unfortunate individuals afterwards died of rabies, though the treatment was begun the day after the receipt of the wounds. (L. F. Trolliet, Nouveau Traiti de la Rage, ^c.) The excision of the bites seventy hours after their infliction, and washing the wound with oxymuriatic acid did not, in Dr. Johnson's case, prevent the disease. (See Edinb. Med. and Surg. Jour. vol. xvi. p. 212.) In America the plant Scutellaria laterifolia has been greatly ex- tolled as a certain specific for hydrophobia. (See A History of Scutellaria laterifolia as a Remedy for preventing and curing Hydropliobia, by Lyman Spald- ing, M.D. New York, 1819.) And M. Marochetti, of Moscow, has described a new treatment, which consists in giving large doses of genista tinctoria or butcher's broom, and pricking with a lancet, and then cauterizing with a hot needle, some little pustules, said by him to form at the orifices of the submaxillary glands, between the third and ninth day from the period of the bite, the mouth being afterwards well washed out with a decoct, genista. _ M. Magendie, West, and various English prac- titioners, however, have not been able to discern these sublingual pustules, possibly in consequence of their having looked for them too late, that is, after the accession of the constitutional disorder' for it appears that M. Magistel, of Saintes, has' noticed such pustules in several patients. Some arose on the sixth day, others later, and the latest on the thirty-second day. Of ten persons bitten whom M. Magistel attended, five died, notwith- standing the strict adoption of Marochetti's treat- ment. (See Journ. gen. de Med.) M. Villermg also observed a transparent pustule under the left side of the tongue, in the case of a female, on the eighth day from the bite. (Revue Med. AndersonS Quarterly Journ. vol. i. p, 124.) In relation to this part of the subject, it merits notice that the vesicles were particidarly sought for in two rabid sheep at the Veterinary School at Alfort, but could not be detected. (Magendie's Journ. viii. p. 328.) Hydrocyanic acid has like- wise been proposed on account of its reputed antispasmodic properties; but some experiments made with it on dogs by Dupuytren, Magendie and Dreschet, furnish no results in favnr of its being likely to prove useful in the present disorder. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. t. xlvii. p. 132.) In' deed, the following statement, if correct,' leaves little hope that any effectual medicine for hydro- phobia will ever bo discovered. "The most active substances, the most powerful narcotics (says Ma- gendie), hiive no effect upon man or animals at- tacked with rabies. I do not merely speak of sub- stances introduced into the stomach, and the