GIO handle. Chains too of various calibres are fitted to the instrument, enabling us to employ that size best suited to the operation to be performed. The chain attached to the curved extremity has been made with a degree of curves in its linlcs, so that besides being more easily applied to a tumour in a deep passage, as the vagina or rectum, it adapts itself to the channel of the instnmient more easily than a straight chain, and is consequently less apt to be broken when drawn home. The mode of attaching the ends of the chain is also rendered more simple and satisfactorj', and as traction can if necessary be made on both ends at once, the power is much increased. Strong wire or a soft cord of hemp have been occasionally used instead of the jointed chain. The ecraseur has been used by Chassaignac of Paris, since the year 1850; and it is intended for the removal of morbid growths on those parts of thebodyfrom which, on account of their vascularity, considerable haemorrhage may be expected, and in such cases it has been thought that it would super- sede the use of the knife and the ligature. Its action,^ although much slower than that of the knife, is considerably more rapid than that of the ligature, which divides the tissues by the process of gangrene it induces, and consequently there is for some time a putrid mass at the part constricted, subjecting the patient to the danger of purulent absorption. On the other hand, the ecraseur acts directly by first condensing the tissues, and sub sequently dividing them with extreme regularity. "^i^^Jj art it- n niri imnn " — _i 1 L £L ^ ^ i. J*.._'J_. i\ hen It acts upon an artery, it first divides the two internal coats which are folded up in such a manner as to plug the vessel; the closure is as- sisted by the agglutinisation of the outer coats before they are divided, and after separation has been effected the closure is so. perfect that the channel cannot be opened, even by blowing forcibly through it. In some experiments which have been made at the Veterinary School near Paris, the carotids of sheep have been divided without loss of blood— this will be readily understood on considering the small amount of haemorrhage usually following con- tused and lacerated wounds. The operations for which the ecraseur is suitable are, as before ob- served, those in which, from the vascularity of the part, much hteraorrhage may be expected, such as cancer of the tongue, haemorrhoids, prolapse of the rectum, uterine polypi, cancer of the neck of the uterus, varicocele, sarcocele, &c. &c. It is also necessary that the part to be removed should be pedunculated; where this is not the case the tu- mour should be raised up well, and several needles passed under it at different angles; a ligature should be tied behind these, and thus form a peduncle for the chain to pass round, or the base of the tumour may be transfixed by a needle and double thread, thus pedunculating each lateral half. In removing the tongue two ccraseurs will be required; the chain of one is introduced into the mouth by means of a needle passed through iin incision below the chin, in the same way as Clo- quet .ipplies ligatures for accomplishing the same end. The root of the tongue is thus encircled find cut from above downwards. The second chain introduced by the mouth is laid in the incision made by the first across the base, and is made to oivida all tho attachments of the organ from be- ECTROPION. hind forwards. Half an hour is sufficient to ac- complish this operation. Half the tongue may be removed by passing two chains through the tongue at the angle of union of the diseased and healthy structures, and making one chain sever the parts from behind forwards while the second cuts Its way out at right angles to the first. For the removal of piles, the tumour is seized with a vulsellum and drawn out, when if small a ligature is simply thrown round its base, and the chain applied, or if larger a double thread is car- ried through its base and tied so as to constrict it m two halve.s, or a needle may be left transfixing Its base, and a ligature applied behind it. When the anus is entirely surrounded by vascular piles, Chassaignac removes the whole at one grasp by introducing a pair of his diverging forceps within the orifice, drawing it well out, and applj'ing a ligature, so as to pedunculate the part, and then using the chain. A bougie must, in this case, be introduced within twenty-four hours, and that with great gentleness, to prevent tearing, so as to ensure the patency of the gut, which is apt to be obliter- ated by the strong compression of the chain. It is necessar}-, also, that the bowels should be kept quiet by opium for twenty-four hours. In the operation for the cure of varicocele it is necessary to pass three needles beneath and at right angles to the veins, taking care that the lowest one does not pierce the tunica vaginalis. A ligature must be applied behind the needles, and thus a peduncle formed for the chain to encircle. Fur removing the testicle, either one or two instruments may be used; if one, the scrotum most be drawn up around the organ to be removed, and the chain applied above the testicle; but if two are used itwill be necessary to introduce a trocar and canula through the scrotum above the testis and behind the cord. The trocar being withdrawn, two chains are passed through ths canula, which is then removed, and each chain attached to its apparatus; one will divide the scrotum longitudinallj', the other will divide the cord and tissues above the testicle. The ecraseur has been very much lauded by its inventor, Chassaignac; but although it has been tried in England for four years, its success is not so certain. There is no doubt that it may be use- ful in the removal of piles, polypi, and such erec- tile or malignant growths as could not be removed by the knife without probability of dangerous haemorrhage; and in such cases its superiority over the ligature is the time gained and the non-liability to putrid or purulent absorption. (7". Wakley.) C/iassaignac, Traite de I'Ecrasement Lindaire, 8vo. 1856. Lancet, 1856, vol. ii. fol. 488 ; 1857, vol. i. fol. 152 ; vol. ii. fol. 23 and 548. Med. Tiniesand Gazette, 1856, vol. x.xxiv. fol. 364, Spencer Wells; fol. 390, 540, Macleod; 1857, vol. xxxvi, fol. 89 ; lii58, vol. xxxvii. fol. 115, 414, 576, 631 ; vol. xxxvih. fol. 97; 1859, vjl. xxiix. fol. 634. ECTHYMA (^ixeufiidai, ea-Mo, or from ixBieiv, to break with fury). A term, employed by the ancients, and revived by Willan, to denote an in- flammation of the skin, principally characterised by large or phlyzaccous pustules of the skin, in one or several regions of the body. The terra phli/ziceous was applied by AVillan to pustules which are large, elevated on a hard circular base, of a bright red colour, and succeeded b)' a thick indurated scab, of a dark colour. ECTROPION (from iicrpin-u, to turn). An eversion of the eyelids.