o o 3 Dislocations of the Kneb. The head of the tibia may be luxated lackward, forward or to eii/ter side. Complete dislocations are rare; because the articular sui-face of the con- dyles of the femur is so extensive that the tibia cannot be entirely removed from it, especially in the lateral direction, without a prodigious lacera- tion of the ligaments, tendons, and all the rest of the soft parts. [To the four dislocations above mentioned may be added stebluxaiions of the knee inicards or out- zvards, the result of rupture of the internal or ex- ternal lateral ligaments; dislocation hy rotation of the tibia on the femur; and dislocations of the semilunar cartilaffes.] Dislocation hachxoards. — In this dislocation the condyles of the femur are disposed in such a manner that in the extreme flexion of the leg, the articular cavities of the upper end of the tibia are still in contact with those bony eminences; and this circumstance, together with the resistance made by the ligament of the patella, the patella itself, and the tendon of the extensor muscles of the knee-joint, renders a sudden dislocation of the tibia backwards so difficult, that Boyer seems even to question the possibility of the accident, notwithstanding the case recited by Heister. {Traite. des Mai. Chir. t. iv. p. 366.) That this accident, however, sometimes really hap pens, no longer admits of dispute: the case is noticed by Sir A. Cooper as producing the fol- lowing appearances: — A shortened state of the limb; a projection of the condyles of the os femo- ris; a depression in the situation of the ligament of the patella; and a bending of the leg forwards: which last statement differs from that of Boyer, who declares that the leg is bent to a very acute angle, and cannot be extended again. {Mai. Cliir. t. iv. p. 369.) It appears, further, from the parti- culars of an example of this accident, communi- cated to Sir A. Cooper by Dr. Walshman, that the dislocation may even be complete, the head of the tibia being thrown behind the condyles of the femur into the ham. The tendinous connection of the patella to the rectus muscle was ruptured; and, probably, without a laceration of that tendon, or of the ligament of the patella, such a degree of displacement could scarcely have happened. {Sm- gical Essays, part ii. p. 74.) But, if a sudden dislocation of the tibia from the femur backwards is uncommon, the same remark cannot be said respecting a displacement in that direction, gradually produced by the effects of disease. Several cases of the latter kind have f fallen under my own observation. [The dislocation backwards is commonly theresult of direct violence applied to the anterior aspect of the leg at its upper part; but it may also bo caused, supposing the tibia to be fixed, by force operating against the posterior and lower part of the femur. Of twelve examples of dislocation backwards to which M. Malgaigne refers, six were complete, and six incomplete. The degree of deformity, the increase in the antero-posterior diameter of the knee, and the presence or absence of shorten- ing, would usually serve to distinguish the one from the other, but another mode of distinguishing them will be found, according to M. Malgaigne, in the position of the patella, which, when the leg is DISLOCATION, ■565 extended, is placed horizontally beneath the con- dyles of the femur in the complete, but is inclined at an angle of 45 degrees in the incomplete dislo- cation. In the complete dislocation the leg has been found either in the extended position, or bent at an angle forwards, as Sir A. Cooper stated; in the incomplete kind it is sometimes extended, sometimes slightly flexed. _ . ■. i In an example of complete dislocation back- wards under M. Robert, the popliteal artery was ruptured, and it became necessary to amputate the limb. An opportunity was thus afforded of ex- amining the condition of the joint, and the dissec- tion showed the mischief to be much less than might have been anticipated. " All the ligaments were entire; the capsule alone presented, behind the femoral condyles, two lacerations of rather more than an inch in extent, through which the tibial tuberosities had escaped, and another of about equal extent in front of the femoral attachment of the external lateral ligament. The popliteus mus- cle was slightly torn at its outer part; all the other muscles, as also the popliteal vein and nerve, were uninjured." (See Malgaigne, TrailS des Fract. t. ii. p. 945.)] These accidents are easily reduced by making gentle extension, and pushing the head of the tibia in the proper direction. [Should any difficulty occur after the necessary extension has been made, the effect of flexing the knee may be tried; or the knee may be bent round the bed-post, or over the left arm or knee of the operator.] The grand ob- ject, after the reduction, is to avert inflammation of the knee, and promote the union of the torn ligaments. The first demands the rigorous observ- ance of the antiphlogistic plan—low diet, opening medicines, and a cooling evaporating lotion; and in exceptional cases bleeding and leeches. Both re- quire the limb to remain perfectly motionless. With respect to splints, I conceive that their pres- sure would be objectionable ; the limb should be well supported in a suitable apparatus, and fixed in a slightly flexed position. As soon as the liga- ments have grown together, and the danger of inflammation is over, the joint should be gently bent and extended every day, in order to prevent stiffness. Liniments will afterwards be of service. Dislocation fonvards.—A dislocation of the head of the tibia forwards, from the condyles of the femur, cannot happen without the greatest difficulty; for the accident would be likely to be attended with a laceration of the lateral, crucial, and oblique, or posterior ligaments, all which tend to prevent the leg from being too far extended; and in addition to all this injury, Boyer calculates that the heads of the gastrocnemius, the popliteus, and the extensor tendons of the leg would be im- moderately stretched, and even torn. However, it deserves notice, that in one compound luxation of the knee, where the os fomoris was thrown be- hind the outer side of the head of the tibia, the external condyle being dislocated backwards and outwards, and the internal one thrown forwards upon the head of the tibia, the dissection proved that " neither the sciatic nerve, the popliteal artery and vein, the lateral nor the crucial ligaments were ruptured." Both heads of the gastrocnemius were lacerated, and the back part of the capsular ligament extensively torn. (<b'ir A. Cooper, On Dislocations, p. 197.) In 1802, an instance of