BOUGIE. subject. In the year 1554, Amatus Lusitamis published a work, in which he refers to several witnesses to prove, that the empirical practitioner above alluded to had learned from him the use of bougies ; while, on the other hand, he candidly owns that he himself was indebted to Aldereto, of Salamanca, for a knowledge of these instruments. In 1553, however, Alph. Ferri, of Naples, endea- voured to show that his acquaintance with the utility of bougies reached as far back as 1548, and of course that he had anticipated Lacuna, and perhaps even Aldereto. But, instead of repre- senting himself as the original inventor of bougies, he mentions that they were known to Alexander of Tralles, which, if true, carries back the invention to the sixth century. A. Ferri, also, before de- scribing bougies and escharotic ointments, mentions various means for examining the state of the urethra, and, amongst other things, cylinders made of flex- ible lead, and of different sizes. Escharotic oint- ments for what were termed cariiosiiies of the urethra, and bougies, were also described by Pe- tronius in 1565, and afterwards by A. Pare'. ' The oldest bougies, which were wicks of cotton, or thread, covered with wax, and escharotic plasters, were in time succeeded by those composed of linen smeared with wax. This change was made with the view of letting them have a hol- low construction ; an improvement first noticed ^y^^Fabricius ab Aquapendente. {Op. Cliir. In the middle of the 17th century, the manner of making and using bougies was well known to Scultetus, as appears from his Arma-mentarium Chirurg. iaJ). 13, fy. 9, 10. Daran, and some of the older writers, attributed the efficacy of their bougies to the composition used in forming them. On the contrary, Mr. Sharp apprehended that it was chiefly owing to the pressure, which was made on the affected part; and Mr. Aikin adds, that, as bougies of veiy dif- ferent compositions succeed equally well in curing the same diseases in the urethra, it is plain that with the exception of caustic bougies, they do not act from any peculiar qualities in their composition ; but by means of some common property, probably their mechanical form. Plenck recommended bougies of catgut, which may be easily introduced into an urethra, even when it is greatly contracted, their size being small, their substance firm, and dilatable by moisture. It is objected to catgut, however, that It sometmies expands beyond the stricture, and gives great pam on being withdrawn. The invention of elastic gum bougies and cathe- ters originated with Bernard, a silversmith at Paris who ,n the year 1 779, presented some instruments of this kind to the Academy of Surgery, which period was prior to the date of the claim made bv Professor Pickel of Wurzbiirg to the discovery. ^!see Joniii. de Med. an. 1785.) [Bougies are made, according to Dr. Pickel as follows: —Take three parts of boiled linseed oil, one part of amber, and one part of oil of turpentine, melt and mix well together these ingredients, and apply them by layers thrice successively, on a cord or ribbon of silk • put the articles thus coated into an oven at a' tem- perature of 14.9° Fahr,, allow them to remain for twelve hours, giving tliem successively fifteen or sixteen additional coats, until they have acquired 353 the requisite size. Polish them first with pumice and give the finish with tripoli and olive oil. This procedure is that in use at Paris, with the excep- tion of some slight modifications, the principal of which consists in dissolving in the oil about a twentieth part of its weight of caoutchouc, in order to impart solidity. For this purpose, the caoutchouc must be cut into small thin fragments, and gradu- ally added to the hot oil; the silken tissue ought to be fine and loose, in order that the composition may penetrate readily. After the application of each layer, the substance must be dried in an oven, or preferably, in the open air, before another is 'laid on. This procedure requires for completion at least two months, so as to furnish the highly elastic bougies. The editor is informed by Messrs. Whicker and Blaise of St. James's Street that the best gum elastic bougies and catheters are now made in the following manner. A cylindrical tube is first woven with cotton or silk in a circular braid ma- chine. This is coated carefully with a composition of gum copal and linseed oil, and is then dried in a heated closet. A second web is then made over the original one, and is coated with the same com- position until of the required size and stiffness Any inequalities of the surface are removed by friction with pumice stone, and it is polished with sweet oil until it attains a proper gloss. The very small bougies and catheters, and also those which possess greater flexibility, are made with a single tube only. Both bougies and catheters, therefore are tubular and are similarly constructed, the only difference being that in the bougie the canal is closed, while in the catheter it is left open at one end, and has an aperture cut near the other, to per- mit fluids to flow through it. Gutta percha has also been employed in the manufacture of bougies and cathetei^ ; but several hav7h l^'""^. ^'^'^Ofd^'i in 'which they have broken, and portions have been left in the rntnel''^''^'-'''^"-''-^-"-^P-Pe% To make the wax bougies, a piece of tape or narrow strip of linen is coated with wax, and is then rolled into a circular form.] Elastic gum bougies sometimes cannot be intro- duced, when a wax bougie can ; and from the trials which I have made of them, I conceive that it arises from their elasticity and continual tendency to become straight, when they reach the perineum so that the point presses on the lower surface of the urethra. Hence, when the obstruction is on that side, it must be difficult to get the end of tho bougie over it. Mr. Smyth discovered a metallic composition of which he formed bougies. These bougies aHk .ble, have a highly polished surface, of\ ilvor l ue" and possess a sufficient degree of fi'rniness for any urcthi.r"TT''^ f ^'"-^'"'-"^ of thi urethra. The advocates for the metnlli,. • assert, that such instruments extll f b^ 'C g.es which have yet been invented, and are clSe" of succeeding in all cases, in whidi the usS a b .ig.e ,s proper. The greatest objection w ch |n be „ urged against them is, that they are at e, S VI 1, a risk of breaking. I l.ave hoard of a "mi. nent surgeon being called upon to cut into 1 e adder, iii consequence of a metallic bougie havinc wlieie It became a cause of the severe symptr A A