37t) CiESAREAN other instances, in which it is indispensable to divide the muscles and open the cavity of the belly? In the other case on record, delivery was effected in the ordinary way, either by raising the abdomen, and keeping it in this position with towels skilfully placed, or by making pressure on the uterus, which had the beneficial effect of making this organ resume its proper situation. Having shown the absolute necessity for the Ceesarean operation, under certain circumstances, it remains to consider the proper time for perform- ing it, the requisite preparatory means, and the method of operating. With regard to the time of operating, practi- tioners do not agree upon this point ; some ad- vising the operation to be done before the mem- branes have burst, and the waters have been dis- charged ; others, not till afterwards. The argu- ments in favour of the first plan, are, the facility with which the uterus may be opened without any risk of injuring the fcBtus, and the hope that the organ will contract with sufficient force to prevent hsemorrhage. The advocates for the second mode, assert that, in operating after the discharge of the ■waters, there is less danger of the uterus falling into a state of relaxation, in consequence of becoming suddenly empty after being fully distended, that the risk of the liquor amnii escaping into the peritoneal cavity is avoided, and that this method does not demand so extensive an incision. Hence they recommend, as a preliminarj' step, the mem- branes to be opened. Whatever conduct be adopted, it is essential that the labour should be urgent and unequivocal, that the cervix uteri should be effaced, and that the os tincee should be sufficiently dilated to allow the lochia to be dis- charged ; but, at the same time, says Sabatier, if the operation is not to be done till after the escape of the waters, there ought not to be too much delay, lest the patient's strength should be exhausted, and the violent efforts of labour should bring on an in- flammatory state of the parietes of the uterus. [Kayser's tables show that the mortality to the mother is increased by any delay beyond seventy- two hours from the commencement of labour, and that the greatest amount of success has attended those cases which were operated on before or within six hours of the rupture of the membranes. Delay has proved still more destructive to the child, the mort.ality increasing in proportion to the duration of the labour after the first twenty- four hours. Indeed it may be stated that the operation is so much the more unfavourable both to mother and child, as a greater time has elapsed after the rupture of the membranes.] The propriety of emptying the rectum and bladder is so evident, that it is unnecessary to in- sist upon it. This precaution is more particularly requisite in regard to the latter of these viscera, which has been known to rise so much over the uterus as to conceal the greater part of it. Bau- delocquo had occasion to remark this circumstance in a woman upon whom he was operating. The bladder ascended above the navel, and presented itself through the whole extent of the opening made in the parietes of the abdomen. The instruments, dressings, &c. which may be wanted, arc two bistouries, one with a convex edge, the other with a probe-point; sponges, ba- sins of cold water; long strips of adhesive plaster; needles and ligatures; lint; long and square com- OPERATION. presses; a bandage to be applied round the body, with a scapulary, &c. For the purpose of undergoing the operation, the patient should be placed at the edge of her bed, well supported; her chest and head should be mo- derately raised; her knees should be somewhat bent, and held by assistants, one of whom ought to be expressly appointed to fix the uterus by making pressure laterally, and from above downward, so as to circumscribe, in some degree, the swelling of the uterus, and prevent the protrusion of the bovirels. These things being attended to, the in- teguments are to be divided with the convex-edged bistoury to the extent of at least six inches. The place and direction of this incision differ with dif- ferent operators. In the most ancient method, it was customary to make the incision between the outer edge of the rectus muscle, and a line drawn from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the junc- tion of the bone of the first rib with its cartilage. This cut was begun a little below the umbilicus, and was continued downward to an inch above the pubes. After the integuments had been di- vided, the muscles, aponeuroses, and peritoneum were cut, and the uterus cautiously opened. The left index finger was then introduced into this vis- cus, the wound of which was dilated by means of a probe-pointed bistoury. This manner of operating is subject to great in- conveniences both on account of the direction of the muscular fibres and from the close proximity of blood-vessels. The fibres of the uterus also are cut transversely, so that the edges of the in- cision gape, instead of being in contact. This last circumstance may the more readil}' permit the lochia to escape into the abdomen, inasmuch as the uterus is cut nearly through its whole length, and there is no cavity, in which they can accu- mulate, in order to be discharged through the cervix of that organ. The linea alba has been frequently considered the most eligible place for making the incision. It was the method adopted by Soleyres and De- leurye, and it had the recommendation of Baude- locque, because there are fewer parts to be cut, and when the uterus is exposed, an incision, paral- lel to its principal fibres, may be made in its middle part. The method was known to Maurice.tu, as we may be convinced of by the following passage, extracted from the chapter in which he treats of the Ctesarean operation: " La jjUipart veuleni qu^on incise ati cote gaucJie dit ventre ; mats I'ou- vcrltire sera mieiuv an milieu entrc les muscles droits, car il n'y a en ce lieu que les tcffumens ci les muscles h couper." Lauverjat, who has made this remark, and cited the Latin edition of Mauri- ceau, page 247, also observes that the incision in the linea alba was practised by a contemporary of La Motte, a circumstance which Sabatier was not able to ascertain. (Mdd. Oper. t. i.) The following is the proper manner of operating in the linea alba. The bladder is to be previously emptied. The operator should first divide the integuments perpendicularly, so as to expose the linea alba, making the wound six or seven inches long. An opening should then be carefully made through the aponeurosis, fascia transversalis, and peritoneimi, into the abdomen, cither at the upper or lower part of the linea alba in view. A curved bistoury is then to be introduced into the opening, and the