, HiEMORRHAGE, contact and put the patient to bed. Not an hour elapses before the renewal of haBmorrhage compe exnoJHT?.""-'^""'"S^- ^he wound is agS exposed to the air, and again the bleeding ceases. lim often happens in the scrotum, after the removal ot a testicle, and on the chest, after the removal of a breast. The proper conduct, in such cases, IS not to open the wound unnecessarily, but to apply pressure, or else wet linen, to the part, so as to produce such an evaporation from its surface as shall create a sufficient degree of cold to stop the bleeding. As all styptics are more or less Mutating, no judicious practitioners apply them to recent wounds However, for the suppression of hcemorihage from diseased surfaces, where the vessels seem to have lost their natural disposi- tion to contract, these applications are sometimes indicated. Compression. We have already remarked, that all the best means of checking hemorrhage operate on the principle of pressure ; the actual and potential cautery, and some styptics excepted : the two first ot which act by forming a slough, which stops up the mouths of the vessels; while the latter operate either by promoting their contraction or by congu- iating the blood. Let us next consider the various modihcations of pressure. In a dissertation on the manner of stoppinsr hemorrhage, printed in the M&m. de I'Acad. des Sciences annee 1731, Petit-endeavoured to prove, that different articles, praised as infallible specifics would seldom, or never, have succeeded without compression. Even when caustics were employed, It was usual to bind compresses tightly on the part' so as to resist the impulse of the blood in the artery and the premature separation of the eschar. Had this precaution not been taken, Petit believes that hemorrhage would almost invariably have loJlowed ; and, indeed, notwithstanding the pains taken to avert it by suitable' compression, it did too frequently take place on the detachment of the eschar. Petit has noticed, that the end of a finger gently compressing the mouth of a vessel, is a sufficient means of stopping haemorrhage from it, and that nothing else would be necessary, if the finger and stump could alwaj-s be kept in-this pos- ^"ffi" endeavoured to obviate these difficulties by inventing a machine which securely and incessantly executed the office of the finger. The instrument was a double tourniquet, which, when applied, compressed at once both the ex- tremity of the divided artery and its ti'unk above the wound. The compression on the end of the vessel was permanent; that on the trunk was made only at the time of dressing the wound, or when It was necessary to relax the other. An engraving and particular description of the instru- ment are to he found in Petit's memoir. Surgeons formerly filled the cavities of wounds with lint, or ch.irpie, and then made pressure on the bleeding vessels, by applying compresses and a tight roller over the part. The practitioners of the present day are too well acquainted with the advantages of not allowing any extraneous sub- stance to intervene between the opposite surfaces ot a recent wound to persist in tlie above plan. I hey know, that the sides of the wound may be vlt hi' T\ f •''"'^ compression may yet be adopted, so as both to restrain particular hemorrhages, and rather promote, than retard the union of the wound. ' When the blood does not issue from any par- ticular vessel, but from numerous small ones compression is preferable to the ligature. In the employment of the latter, it would be necessary to le the whole surface of the wound. The sides of the wound are to be brought accurately together and compresses are then to be placed over the part and a roller to be applied with sufficient tightness to make eflfectual pressure, but not so forcibly as to produce any chance of the circulation in the limb being completely stopped. If, in bleeding from large arteries, compression can ever be prudently tried, it is when these vessels lie immediately over a bone. Bleedings from the radial and temporal arteries are gene- rally cited as cases of this kind, though, from the many instances of failure which I have seen happen where the first of these vessels is con- cerned, I should be reluctant either to advise or make such an attempt. Compression is some- times tried, when the brachial artery has been wounded in phlebotomy. Here it is occasionally tried, m preference to the ligature, because the latter cannot be employed without an operation to expose the artery. " When the brachial arterj' has been wounded in bleeding at the bend of the arm (saj-s Mr. Crosse), I find so many instances narrated of successful management by pressure, that it seems imperative on us to regard this as the general rule of treatment. Sometimes the artery has been ex- tensively obliterated by the pressure employed; at others, the same change has taken place in the' vein; and one example is afforded of the aperture between the artery and the vein closing, each vessel remaining pervious after the cure. Pres- sure is, however, applicable only where a compe- tent surgeon has the opportunity of employintr it soon after the injury " {J. G. Crosse, in Prov. Med. and Surgical Trans, vol. v.) ; and, I would add, while the quantity of blood, effused in the cellular tissue, is not such as to interfere with its operation, or to render the trial of it likely to bring on mortification. When there is a small wound in a largo artery, the following plan may be tried: a tourniquet 'is to be applied, so as to command the flow of blood into the vessel; the edges of the external wound are next to be brought into contact: then, a com- press, shaped like a blunt cone, and which is best formed of a series of compresses, gradually increas- ing in size, is to be placed with its apex exactly on the situation of the wound in the artery. This graduated compress, as it is termed, is then to be bound on the part with a roller. In this manner, I once healed a wound of the superficial palmar arch, in a young lady in Great Pulteney Street. The outward wound was very small; and though the hemorrhage was profuse, I conceived, that it might be permanently stopped, if compression could be so made as to keep the external wound incessantlj' and firmly covered for the space of a day or two. At first I trifd a compress of lint, bound on the part with a roller; but this proving ineffectual, I took some pieces of money, from the size of a farthing to that of a half- crown, and, wrapping them up in linen, put the smallest one accurately over the wound, so as com- pletely to cover it. Tlien the others were arranged,