EXOSTOSIS. 64.0 ing comparative analysis of sound bone and of ivory exostoses :— Bony exos- toses or Ivory sound bone, exostoses. Animal matter . . . 33'30 28-57 . Phosphate of lime, of mag- nesia, &c. . . . 54-20 68-88 ( Carbonate of lime, alkaline, chlorides, &c. . . . 12-50 2-00 • Loss • 00-00 00-55 100-00 100-00 i (Nelalon, Memens de Palhologie Cldrurgicale, torn, i ii, p. 3.) The microscopical characters also in the ivory : exostoses are less distinct and more irregular than ■ in ordinary bone. According to Rokitansky, " the Haversian canals are small and far apart, and many of them are surrounded by a distinct and completely defined (viiUigabge-schlossenen) lamellar system. With regard to the corpuscles, ■we find large tracts without any of them, while at other spots they are clustered together in dense . groups."—(^Manual of Pathological Anatomy, hy , Rokitansky, translated for the Sydenham Society hy I C. H. Moore, vol. ii. p. 127.) In describing a particular specimen of ivory exostosis, Mr. Paget says (^Lectures on Surgical . Pathology, vol. ii. p. 236), " in the hardest parts ■ there are neither Haversian canals nor lacunae ; in the less hard parts the canals are very large, and the lacunee are not arranged in circles around ■ them, and everywhere the lacunee are of irregular : and distorted forms."] Exostoses dififer in size. Those of the cranium ; are generally small and circumscribed, yet excep- ; tions occur ; for Sir Everard Home removed a very large tumor, which had a bony base, and was situated on the head. {Sir A. Cooper, Surgical Essays, part. i. p. 156.) The largest true exostoses are formed upon the long bones. In the history of surgery may be found numerous cases of enor- : mous exostoses ; but nearly all of them of the species termed false, and many of them were situ- : ated on the jaw, the clavicle, or the extremities of the long bones. Observations of this kind are : abundant in I'Histoire de I'Acad. des Sciences ; 1 les Mdm. de I'Acad. de Ghir. ; the Sepulchretum Anatomicnm; the writings of Morgagni, &c. {Did. des Sciences Med. t. xiv. p. 219.) The bones most frequently affected with ox- ' ostosis are those of the cranium, the lower jaw, sternum, h\imeru3, radius, ulna, bones of the carpus, and particularly the femur and tibin. There is, however, no bone of the body which may not be- come the seat of this disease. It is not uncommon to find all the bones of the cranium affected witli exostosis, or, rather, liypertrophia, and the ossa parietalia sometimes an inch thick. The exostosis which forms between the outer table of the skull and the pericranium, is of c.v tremely hard consistence, and generally attended with little pain, while the fungous exostosis, spring- ing from the diploe of the skull, is less firm, more vascular, and of a malignant nature, making its way through the inner table, and occasioning disease of the dura mater, and fatal effects on the brain. (.See Dura Mater.) Sometimes an exostosis is confined to a small part of the affected bone, composing a mass su- peradded to its surface, and of various shapes. Sometimes it rises insensibly, having no very dis- tinct limits, and resembling a more or less regular portion of a sphere.' In some instances its figure is styloid, and it projects in a greater or less degree. On other occasions its base is rendered distinct by a pedicle, or contraction, which varies in breadth and length in different cases. In particular instances, evidently resulting from inflammatory action, the exostosis, or rather osseous enlarge- ment, though limited to the surface of a bone,- occupies the whole extent of it. Thus the exter- nal surface of one of the bones of the skull has been found occupied by an exostosis, while the inner table was in the natural state. The whole circumference of the femur sometimes ac- quires an enormous size, at the same time that the medullary surface continues entirely unchanged. These are the periosteal exostoses of Sir Astley Cooper. In otlier examples, on the contrary, the two surfaces and the whole thickness of the bone are deformed by an augmentation of bulk; and when this happens in a cj'lindrical bone, tlie medullary cavity is more or less reduced, or even totally obliterated. In a few extremely uncom- mon cases, the substance of a bone acquires great solidity (osteo-sclerosis), and a hardness compared to that of ivory, without any material increase of bulk. An exostosis sometimes, though rarely, oc- cupies the whole extent and thickness of a bone; but when this happens in a cylindrical bone, the articular surfaces generally remain in their natural state. Common situations of exostoses are the upper part of the humerus and tibia, and the lower part of the femur, especially near the insertion of the tendon of the adductor magnus. {Sir A. Cooper.) In the long bones exostoses are generally narrow, and of greater height than thickness ; sometimes largest at their base, sometimes the reverse. In the flat bones they are usually broad, but they form flat discs, connected to such bones by means of short narrow pedicles. In the round bones they are rounded and nodular. To these laws, as Mr. Mayo oliserves, there are many exceptions. {Outlines of Human Pathology, p. 12.) The structure and consistence of exostoses present great differences. Sometimes, especi.ally when the tumor is not very large, and situated on the surface of a cylindrical bone, one may trace with the eye the diverging of the osseous fibres, in the interspaces of which we might say that there is deposited a new bony substance, the organisa- tion of which is less distinct. Sometimes the tumor is entirely cellular, and formed of a few broad lamina), intercepting extensive spaces, which are filled with matter different from the medulla, and of various quality. This case is denominated the lamitiated exostosis. Sometimes the enlarged portion of bone makes a sort of hollow sphere, with thick hard walls, and the cavity is filled with a firm indolent fibrous substance. One form of exostosis Sir Astley Cooper has named the carli- laginous exostosis of the medidlary membraiie. " In this case, the shell of the bono becomes extremely expanded, or rather the original shell is absorbed, .and a new one deposited ; and within this ossified cavity thus produced, a very large mass of carti- lage is formed, clastic, firm, and fibrous." It is not malignant, but often ends in a very extensive disease. {Surgical Essays, part i. p. 173.)