870 HARE-LIP. action of which could not be regulated without the utmost difficulty. When some of the bone must be cut away, on account of its roughness and angular prominences, I advise the practitioner to remove only the irritating points, and afterwards have recourse to pressure. In a boy, thirteen years old, where the alveolar process jutted forward, M. Gensoul took hold of it with a strong pair of forceps, and brought it into the perpendicular position by main force. This rough method succeeded perfectly. (See J. F. Matgaigne, in Manuel de Med. Optr, p. 444, ed. 2.) [There cannot now be any difference of opinion with regard to the advisability of pressing the pro- minent inter-maxillary bone backwards. As a general rule it should be done. Its removal is only indicated when it is very imperfectly deve- loped or deformed. The manner of attaining the object is not of great consequence, provided it be obtained. Sometimes it may be pressed backwards by the fingers. Some operators divide the vomer ; others follow Blandin's example, who fractured the osseous connection between the vomer and inter- maxillary bones. Langenbeck divides the trian- gular cartilage of the nose. If any portion of the projecting inter-maxillary bone be removed by cutting pliers, the actual cautery should be ap- plied to the bleeding surface of bone, as oozing of blood is very apt to continue, and has proved fatal.] _ 2. Paring tlie Edges of the Cleft.—In the opera- tion for single hare-lip, the grand object is to make as smooth and even a cut as possible, in order that it may more certainly unite by the first intention, and be of such a shape that the cicatrix may form only one narrow line. Hence, in this country the edges of the iissure are cut off with a sharp knife. One plan is to place any flat instrument, such as a piece of horn, wood, or pasteboard, underneath one portion of the lip, and then, holding the part stretched and supported on it, to cut away the whole of the callous edge. Another is to hold the part with a pair of forceps, the under blade of which is much broader than the upper one: the first serves to support the lip, the other contributes also to this effect, and, at the same time, serves as a sort of ruler for guiding the knife in an accu- rately straight line. When the forceps are pre- ferred, the surgeon must of course leave out of the tipper blade just as much of the edge of the fissure as is to be removed, so that it can be cut off with one sweep of the knife. This is to be done on each side of the cleft. But at the present day most surgeons remove the margins of the fissure by transfixing the lip with a long sharp-pointed narrow bistoury just above the upper end of the cleft, and then cutting towards the red portion of the lip, while the part is held and stretched by the Burgeon himself, or his assistant. One side of the cleft is thus pared off, and then the other ; parti cnlar care being taken to remove a small piece of the red part of the lip on each side, lest an ugly notch should be left in that situation. This is the plan ordniarily followed by Mr. Listen. In France, tlie edges of the fissure are always taken off with a pair of strong, sharp, long-handled ?tT^/VP"'-P°«« by M. Dubois, voee Ai^.A. L. M. Velpeau. inNouv. RUm..,lA Mi^ advocate in Desault (fEuvr. Chir. t. ii. p. 179) and B. Bell was also in favour of them. In cutting off the edges of the fissure, the cision must be carried to the m- , , upper part of the hp ; and even when the fissure does not reach wholly up the lip, the same thing should be done ; for, in this manner, the sides of the wound will admit of being applied together more uniformly, and the cicatrix will have a better appearance! We should also not be too sparing of the edges which are to be cut off. Practitioners, says M. Louis, persuaded that the hare-lip was a division with loss of substance, have invariably advised the removal of the callous edges. But, in the natural hare-lip there is no callosity ; the margins of the fissure are composed, like those of the lip itself, of ^ Pilpy? fresh-coloured, vermilion flesh, covered with an exceedingly delicate cuticle. The whole of the part having this appearance must be taken away, together with a little of the true skin. At the lower part of the fissure a rounded red sub- stance is commonly situated, which it is absolutely necessary to include in the incision. Were this neglected, the union below would be unequal, and, through an injudicious economy, a degree of de- formity would remain. The grand object, how- ever, is to make the two incisions diverge at an acute angle, so that the edges may be put into reciprocal contact their whole length, without the least inequality. [The next object, after doing everything to secure perfect union by the first intention, is to prevent the formation of an indentation at the free margin of the united lip, just at the lowest point of the imited fissure. This indentation is not only a deformity, but it must also impede, to some extent, perfect articulation of the labial sounds. Mal- gaigne's mode of paring the edges prevents this indentation. He separates a strip from each edge, by carrying two incisions from above downwards, towards, but not through, the free margin of the lip. The two upper thirds of the strip are then cut avvay, and the lower third pressed downwards and united, forming a projection downwards. Other operators obtain a nearly similar result by making an elliptical incision on each side instead of the oblique cut. The objection is, that infants are apt to suck at the small protuberance remaining at the inferior angle of the united fissure, and loss of blood may thus take place. The method of Lan- genbeck is perfect in this respect, especially when the fissure is lateral. One side is pared simply, the lower end of the cut^ curving outwards ; the other side is pared almost after Malgaignc's method, and the lower free border, whicb is not removed, passes over the median line for some distance, and is united with the opposite border. The cicatrix is thus vertical at the upper part and oblique at the lower part, and no contraction of the cicatri.^ can lead to notching or indentation of the free border of the lip.] These observations particularly refer to the most simple form of hare-lip, viz. to that which presents only one fissure. When there are two clefts, the cure is accomplished on the same prin- ciple ; but it is r.athcr more difiicult of execution ; 80 that the old surgeons, until the time of Heister, almost all regarded the operation for the double hare-lip as impracticable : only a few described it, bntrt / •'vo""- -atemMe Med. hare-hp as impracticable : only a tew descnoeu n, <U MM ' Afo^^a^S'we, in Manuel \ with the direction to operate on each fissure, just • ^■P^''- P- ^42, ed, 2.) Scissors had an j as if it were single. M. de la Faye opexated in