202 ANEURISM. ment may be found in the Edin, Med, and Surgical Journal, No. 76. Mr. Hodgson's directions for the performance of this operation are very clear: A semilunar incision through the integuments, which is to have its convexity downwards, and to begin about an inch from the sternal end of the clavicle, being continued towards the acromion for the extent of three or four inches, so as to end near the anterior margin of the deltoid muscle, without reaching into the space between the deltoid and pectoral muscle, in order to avoid wounding the cephalic vein. This incision will expose the fibres of tlie pectoral muscle, which are now to be divided in the direction and extent of the external wound. The flap is then to be raised, by dividing the loose cellular tissue which connects the pectoral muscle to the parts underneath it. The pectoralis minor will now be seen crossing the inferior part of the wound ; and, by introducing his finger be- tween the upper edge of this muscle and the cla- vicle, the surgeon may feel the pulsations of the axillary artery. Here one of the cervical nerves lies above, but in contact with, the artery; the other nerves are behind it. In the dead subject, the axillary vein is situated below it: but in the living the vein is distended, and conceals the artery. The cellular tissue, connecting these parts, is to be separated by careful dissection, or by lacerating it with a blunt instrument. A liga- ture having been drawn under the artery with an aneurism needle, the ends of the cord are to be raised, and a finger passed down, so as to compress the part surrounded by the ligature. If the artery be included, the pulsation in the aneurism will immediately cease. This precaution is highly ne- cessary, lest one of the cervical nerves should be tied instead of the artery. (See Hodgson, On Dis. of Arteries, S^c. p. 362.) When an aneurism extends a certain way in- wards, or towards the trachea, the operation below the clavicle becomes impracticable ; and it is now requisite to make the incision above that bone, and take up the subclavian artery at the point where it comes out from between the scaleni muscles, and lies on the flat surface of the first rib. In the dead subject, without any tumor under the clavicle, this operation is easy enough; but in a living patient, and particularly in one whose neck is short, the difficulty is much increased by a large nxillary aneurism, for then the clavicle is sometimes so much elevated, and the artery lies so deeply, that a ligature can hardly be earned imder it without a particular needle for the pur- pose. This was the case in an attempt which 1 once saw made by Mr. Ramsden to tie the artery, and in which one of the cervical nerves, affected by the pulsation of the artery, was mistaken for it, and tied, so that the aneurism soon afterwards burst, and a fatal hemorrhage arose. Hence, the advice given by my friend Mr. Hodgson, always to operate in this case while the tumor is small, cannot be too well remembered. The di- rection fiiven by Mr. Listen is also important; indeed, it is given by Mr. Hodgson in relation to the operation below the clavicle, and may be said to apply to all operations for the cure of aneurism It is one which Diipuytren iilways particularly in- Bisted upon ; namely, " before tightening the liga ture, try the effect of compression with the fingers on the pulsation, as by taking this precaution (says Mr. Listen) I saved myself and my patient the pain of tying the nerve, which I got hold of in my first operation, in place of the artery." {Lancet, No. 195, p. 234.) The chief difficulty in the oper- ation is that of passing the ligature round the artery; but, it may be done either with an inge- nious needle, which Mr. Ramsden has described, and which is exactly similar in principle to De- sault's aiguille a ressort, or with the still preferable instrument constructed by Weiss. Another very ingenious contrivance for tying deep arteries has also been recently proposed by Dr. Prevost, of Geneva. (See Edin. Med. and Surgical Joum. No. 79.) The instruments used by Dr. Mott, when he took up the arteria innominata, will be presently noticed. In order to avoid the inconveniences of the needles ordinarily used for conveying ligatures under deep arteries, Desault (says Bichat) in- vented "une aiguille a ressort," composed of a silver tube, or sheath, which was straight at one end, and bent at the other in a semicircular form. This sheath enclosed an elastic wire, the projecting extremity of which was accurately fitted to the end of the sheath, and perforated with a transverse eye. The instrument was passed under the arterj-, and, as soon as it had reached the other side of the vessel, the sheath was kept fixed, while an assistant pushed the elastic wire, which, rising from the bottom of the wound, presented the aperture or eye to the surgeon, who now passed the ligatuire through this opening. The wire was next drawn back into its sheath again, and the whole instru- ment brought from beneath the arterj-, by which means the ligature was conveyed under the vessel. (See (Euvres CIdr. de Desault, par Bichat, t. lu p. 560.) Another very ingenious method of pass- ing the ligature under the artery, is that practised by Mr Key; but, as the comprehension of it is difficult without the plate, I shall here merely refer to that gentleman's description of it. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiii. p. 10.) The invention of the foregoing instruments effects a material diminution in the difficulty of taking up the subclavian artery from above the clavicle; nor can it be wondered, that without such assistance, the operation should have baffled even so skilful a surgeon as Sir A. Cooper, (bee Lond. Med. Review, vol. ii. p. 200.) _ ,. , The following example is the first in which the operation of applying a ligature to the siibclavian artery above the clavicle was ever accomplished. John Townly, a tailor, aged thirty-two, addicted to excessive intoxication, of an unhealthy and peculiarly anxious countenance, was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital on Tuesday, the ^nd of November, 1809, on account of an aneurism m the rifiht axilla. The prominent part of the tumor in the axilla was about half as big as a large orange, and there was also much enlargement and dis- tention underneath the pectoral muscle so tbat the elbow could not be brought near the side of the body. , "The temperature of both arms,' says Mr. Ramsden, " was alike, and the pulse m the radia arterv of each of them was correspondent. Alter thfimtient had been put to bed, some blood aken from the left arm, and his bowels emptied h.s pulse, which, on his admission, had been at becnnie less'frequent ; his countenance appca ed more tranquil; and he experienced some remission