absorption of the vapour which was contained in effects of chloroform, or were, at least, very diffi- the lungs at the time when the inhalation was left 'iff. This increase, or accumulation, of the eft'ects of chloroform lasts for about twenty seconds ; it is not dangerous unless the vapour is inhaled of too great strength, but it should always be borne in mind. It may be prevented by reducing the strength of tho vapour just as the patient is getting insensible. When rigidity and struggling occur in the third degree of narcotism, that is just after the suspen sion of consciousness, the inhalation should be continued gently till these symptoms are subdued. The patient is sometimes insensible before the rigidity is overcome, but it is necessary to have him in a state of quietude, in order to enable the surgeon to operate with convenience and safety. It is advisable to proceed cautiously and slowly when rigidity and struggling are present, because, when these symptoms occiu', the patient has al- ready absorbed nearly the usual quantity of chlo- roform, and he sometimes holds his breath, and then suddenly takes a deep inspiration, when he might inhale an overdose of the vapour, unless it were exhibited to him in a well diluted state. In very robust men, accustomed to great muscular exertion, it sometimes takes five or six minutes before the rigidity can be fairly subdued. If the operator should be afraid to proceed with the ex- hibition of chloroform on account of the violence of the muscular spasm and rigidity, the inhalation may be resumed after it has been discontinued for a few minutes, and the above symptoms will be less violent than at first. After the muscular spasm and rigidity are subdued by the chloroform, they rarely recur during the operation. The pupils are usually somewhat contracted in the third degree of narcotism, when the eyes are inclined upwards, and they seem to be less sen. sitive to light when the patient is under the in fluence of chloroform than at other times. They do not become totally insensible to light, or widely dilated, except by such a deep effect of the chloro- form as it is desirable to avoid. There is often an increased flow of saliva during the inhalation of chloroform, and although this seldom causes any impediment, the patient occa- sionally makes efforts of deglutition, which retard the inhalation; and, at other times, he holds his breath, with his mouth full of saliva after he is imconscious, as if he had some obscure idea of dis- posing of it in a suitable manner. If a towel is placed against the lips under these circumstances, he generally empties his mouth, and goes on breathing properly. The length of time which it is most desirable to occupy m the exhibition of chloroform, before an operation is commenced, is about two minutes in infants, three minutes in children, and four or live minutes in adults. Circumstances occasionally occur to lengthen these periods, but it hardly ever takes more than seven or eight minutes to render the patient sufficiently insensible. When a longer time has been occupied there has always been a physical cause for it. The writer has never had any reason to attribute the delay to any idio- syncrasy, or peculiarity in the patient, but merely to the circumstance that the vapour did not enter the lungs in sufficient quantity within a given time. He has had under his care several patients who, it was supposed, were not susceptible of the ANAESTHESIA. J35 cult to bring under its influence, as previous at- tempts had failed; but he met with no difficulty in causing insensibility in any of these cases. If the operation be of short duration, the first application of chloroform will often suffice without repeating the inhalation. The patient now and then remains insensible to the knife for three minutes after the inhalation is left oft', but this is an exception; and one cannot make sure of this prolonged effect of chloroform without producing a deeper state of narcotism than is desirable. When the operation lasts more than a minute or two, it is usually necessary to repeat the inhalation; and indeed it is generally advisable to let the patient have a few inspirations of air mixed with vapour of chloroform about every half minute whilst the operation lasts, in order to keep up the insen- sibility. When the surgeon is operating in the neighbourhood of important parts, it is desirable to prevent any sign of sensibility, and to keep repeating the chloroform so as to keep up the coma, without, however, causing dilatation of the pupil, or embarrassment of the breathing; but in the greater number of operations, it is better to wait till there is some sign of sensibility, such as a slight cry or tendency to flinch, before resuming the inhalation; and then a few inspirations of well diluted vapour make the patient quiet again. Consciousness usually returns within five min- utes after the inhalation has been discontinued. After a brief inhalation, for a very short operation, the patient sometimes becomes conscious almost immediately; whilst, after a protracted operation, ten minutes sometimes elapse before the recovery of consciousness. When left to himself the patient usually recovers from the effects of the chloroform 111 a very tranquil manner, and it is desirable not to talk to him until he has completely recovered. It he has not been moved whilst insensible, but wakes in the position in which he fell asleep, he very frequently supposes that he has not been asleep at all, and in a number of instances will contend, even after a prolonged operation, that the chloroform has not taken effect. Of course he soon finds out his error. After the greater num. ber of operations the patients have to remain in bed; and even after minor operations under chlo- roform It is advisable that the patient should lie or at least sit still, for half an hour, or longer' before making any bodily or mental exertion. ' There are occasional sequela; of the inhalation of chloroform. Sickness is the most important of these. It IS most frequent when the inhalation takes place soon after a meal, but the best direc- tions with regard to diet will not always prevent It, as the food IS sometimes not digested when the patient is expecting a surgical optrationr^ d tto b eakfast may be vomited in an uualte-ed state af er the lapse of .even.l hours. Moreovei' tl e may be sickness and retching when there is notI W n. t o stomach. Moving th! patient as , "01^ of he chloroform are subsiding, is very liable to excite vomiting when it might n^'t otheSt., " t is here ore advisable to allow the patient to 1 e for about half an hour, when convenient, without moving 1,18 head from the pillow. Even when a coling of sickness is present it often subsides, by this means, without the occurrence of vomitinc ft IS desirable also not to give anything to eat or drink till about an hour after the chloroform and K 4 '