340 BLOOD, PATHOLOGY OF. of the body, have the power of diminishing the amount of this substance in the blood, and also of diminishing its viscidity and counteracting the tendency of the red corpuscles to aggregate; hence their utility in inflammations and febrile disorders. Some medicines are known as antidotes, altera- tives, or catalylics. {Headland.) The diseases in which they are employed are blood diseases, and each medicine of this class has a specific action Antisyphilitics, antiscorbutics, antiarthritics, and many other groups are of this nature. Mercury counteracts the morbid actions in the blood pro- duced by the syphilitic poison, its effect is shown by a diminution of the proportion of fibrin and of corpuscles, and it also promotes absorption, pre- vents elTusion, and acts on the secreting organs as a powerful eliminative. Iodine enters the blood, reappears in many of the secretions, and promotes absorption ; it counteracts the morbid process ob taining in scrofulous blood, but like mercury, if continued for a long time, is capable of producing a special disease of the blood. These diseases are frequently under the eye of the surgeon, and are known as mercurialism and iodism. (See Hy- DRAHGYRUM, loDiNiUM.) Arsenic also acts on the blood, and if given in excess produces a special blood disease. Hence, the employment of mer cury, iodine, and arsenic, in syphilis, scrofula, and lepra, all blood diseases. The changes produced in so complicated a fluid by foreign agents are at pre- sent very little understood. Chemical affinities do not take place in the blood as they do in any known fluid in the laboratory, else mineral salts would be precipitated by alkalies, and nitrate of silver would be precipitated bj' the hydrochloric acid, whereas it is deposited as an oxide in the tissues. Many of these medicines are known to enter into new combinations in the blood. Thus sulphur com- bines with hydrogen and oxygen, and passes off as sulphuretted hydrogen and sulphuric acid. Nitro-hydrochloric acid and chlorate of potassa promote the oxydation of substances by virtue of chlorine, which, aided by the decomposition of water, is the most powerful oxydising agent known. Iodine is converted into iodide of potassium, benzoic acid into hippuric acid, turpentine into a volatile oil having the odour of violets. Many of these blood medicines act also as diuretics, and pass off by the kidneys either in the form in which they are introduced, or as new combinations. When, in surgical practice, an effect is required to be produced on the brain or nervous system by opium and other narcotics, it must not be forgotten that such medicines are taken into the blood and may reappear in the secretions ; thus, an infant may be narcotised by the milk of the mother ; so also a powerful sedative effect may be produced by hydrocyanic acid acting by the blood through- out the nervous system, or anaisthesia by aconite, or depression of the force of the heart by digitalis, Some medicines, as this last, may accumulate in the blood, producing a very moderate action for a time and violent effects suddenly. By inhalation, again, the surgeon introduces chloroform into the blood, which, by its action on the brain and nerves, temporarily annihilates sensibility, and enables him to perform the most painful operations while tlie patient is unconscious. (See Anaesthesia. Also various cirtidcs on J\faifria Mcdica. Head- laml's ICssuy on the Action of A/cdicincn, 185,5.) Thus, we have illustrated the importance of blood diseases in practicnl surger}', and it will be sufliciently obvious, that even in maladies of local origin, produced by accident, or causes acting pri- marily on the nervous system, or in any way dis- turbing the functions or orgiuiisation of particular tissues, or vital parts, the surgeon who aspires to be successful in Jiis treatment, or to improve the art, must not overlook the condition of the blood in any case. The question of the propriety of performing any particular surgical operation, as amputation after injury, may turn on the state of the blood. Should mortification depend on a poi- son, absorbed or generated, it would be useless to amputate until the poison is eliminated, and the cessation of the progress of the mortification is the best proof of the absence of the poison, and the recovery of the blood from its efl'ects. Local dis- ease, or disease of particular structures, will run a favourable or unfavourable course, and terminate successfully or unsuccessful, according as the molecular and organic constitution and vital power of the blood is or is not sustained. As respects every remedy employed to excite or diminish, or to modify the action or condition of an organ or tissue, we must take into consideration its effect on the blood, whether the disease for which it is pre- scribed be a blood disease or not, and even where the blood is expected to act as a mere vehicle con- veying the remedy to the part to be acted on, we must not overlook the probable or contingent effects of the remedy on the vital fluid itself By neglect or error in the important indications derived from the blood, which present themselves in all diseases, we may convert a mild and benignant into a ma- lignant and fatal aftection, or we may aggravate or perpetuate a local disease, or induce acute inflam- mation or inflammatorjf fever, or typhoid fever,orery- sipelas, or promote the absorption of purulent sanies and other blood poisons. We may produce those fatal results which it is our special object to avert. These remarks apply to a very large proportion of the diseases treated of in this Dictionarj' as Ab- scesses, Amaurosis, Aneurisms, Burns, Cancer, Cataract, Cojituiions, Cutaneous Diseases, Diseases of the Bones, Joints, and Bu/sce, Diseases of tiie Ear, Dislocations, Dropsy, Erysipelas, Fevers, Fistula, Fractures, Gangrene, Gonorrhcea, Gnii- skot Wounds, Hydrophobia, Inflamniation, Oph- thalmia, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Tumours, Urinary Calculi, Venereal Disease, Wounds, ^c. ^c. The special pathology of the blood is more particularly detailed under many of these heads, and espccitilly under the more specific morbid conditions of the vital fluid referred to throughout this article.] Henry Ancell. [RlBLloa. AND Rkfer.—K. i3o.v/c, Natural Hist, of Humnn Blood. Loiul. 1084. Joseph Browne, M.D.. An Kssay upon theStructureand Mechanism of tlielilooil, 1709. .7^. BroitJi, Instit. of Plivs. Lond.1714. Coiirlen, Experiments on tlie blood by injecting substances into the veins. I'hilos. Trans, vol. xxvii. p. 485. Ilitffmann, lie Judicio ex Sanguine per A'ena-sectio- neni eniisso, 1727. Friend, Opera Omnia, p. 130. fol. Loud. 1733. Mchu'enekc, Ma'tnatoloaia, sive SaiiL'- Hist. 410.1743. Ilallcr, Elemcnta Physioiogia;, lie vol. ii. H. Varies, Experimental Analysis of Himiau Hlood. Bath, HCO. llcioson, Exper. Inquiry inio the Properties of the Blood, 8vo. London, 1771. Pliilos. Trans. 1773, p. 303. Borden, Annul. M(<dic. du Sanff. Paris, 1775. Ilcy, Observations on the Ulood. Lonil. 1779. Gruner, i)e Patliologia fanffuinis. Gen. 1/91. .r. ITunter, On the Blood, Inflaiiimalion, *:c. 4to. Lniuloii, 179.'>. J)c,icti.r tt Parmcnfier, Mcmonc sur les Altc'rntions du Sanpr, 4to. I'nris, 1797- .'i«'*',V> the Colour of tlie blood. Pliilos. Trans. 1(97, p. 410.