DISLOCATION. 495 from whence it became easily reduced." In tliese cases no laceration of the ligaments could have occurred, and the influence of the muscles in pre- venting dislocation, and in impeding reduction, is exemplified. {Surgical Essays, part i. p. 10.) Mr. Brindley, of Wink Hill, communicated to Sir A. Cooper an account of a dislocation of the 03 femoris, which the patient, a man of 50, is able to produce and reduce whenever he chooses. One of ray pupils gave me an account of a similar case in another part of the country. The looseness of the ligaments sometimes makes the occurrence of dislocations so easy, that the slightest causes produce them. Some persons cannot yawn, or laugh, without running the risk of their lower jaw being luxated. Collections of fluid within the knee, causing a relaxation of the ligament of the patella, are often followed by a dislocation of that bone. And, whenever a bone has been once dislocated, it ever afterwards has a tendency to be displaced again by a slighter cause than what was first necessary to produce the acci- dent. This tendency likewise increases with every new displacement. Diseases which destroy the cartilages, ligaments, and articular cavities of the bones, may give rise to a dislocation. The knee is sometimes, but not frequently, partially luxated in consequence of disease ; and the thigh is now and then dislocated in consequence of the acetabulum and ligaments being more or less destroyed. Such dislocations are termed spontaneoiis, or consecutive. At St. Thomas's Hospital, there is a preparation of a knee, dislocated in consequence of ulceration, and in the state of ankylosis, the leg forming a right angle with the femur directly forwards. (See Sir A. Cooper's Surg. Essays, part i. p. 11.) An enarthrodial or ball and socket joint can only be dislocated by external violence ; a blow, a fall, or the action of the muscles, when the axis of the bone is in a direction more or less oblique with respect to the surface with which it is articulated. Any external force may occasion a dislocation of ginglymoid joints, in which case the displacement, as before mentioned, is generally incomplete ; but in the ball and socket articulations, the action of the muscles sometimes has a share in producing the ac- cident. So, when a person falls on his elbow, while his arm is raised outwards from his side, the force, thus applied, will undoubtedly contribute to push the head of the os brachii out of the glenoid cavity, at the lower and internal part. Still, the sudden action of the pectoralis major, lattissimus dorsi, and teres major, which always takes place from the alarm, will also aid in pulling the head of the bone downwards. Under certain circumstances, the ac- tion of the muscles alone may produce a disloca- tion, without the conjoint operation of any out- ward force, as is commonly exemplified in the lower jaw, and in some dislocations of the patella. But, in other cases, when the patient is aware in time of tlie violence vvhich is about to operate, and his muscles are prepared for resistance, a disloca- tion cannot be produced without the greatest dif- ficulty {Sir A. Cooper, op. cit. p. 15.), unless the posture of the member at the moment be such as to render the action of the strongest muscles con- ducive to the displacement, instead of preventive of it, as is frequently the case in luxations of the shoulder. [In the above description, indirect force, that is to say, force operating at a distance from the joint, or at the opposite end of the bone to be disphaced, is alone taken into consideration. This, however, though perhaps the most frequent way, is not the only way in which these accidents are occasioned, for they may be produced also by direct force ap- plied immediatel}'' over the joint itself. Thus, for example, the humerus may be dislocated back- wards by a blow or fall upon the front of the shoulder. In the latter class of cases there will probably be contusion and ecchymosis observable in the immediate neighbourhood of the injury ; while in the former, if contusion is present, it will be situated at a distance.] Dislocations are constantly attended with more or less laceration or elongation of the ligaments ; and in the shoulder and hip, the capsules are always torn, when the accident is produced by violence. Some instances, in which the ligaments are only lengthened and relaxed, I have already quoted. Sometimes a dislocation is attended with a fracture: mostly when the ankle is luxated, the fibula is broken ; and in dislocation at the hip, the acetabulum may be fractured. (Sir A. Cooper, op. cit. p. 15. Wallace, in Diihl. Trans, of King''s and Queen's College, vol. v.) Symptoms op Dislocations. Every dislocation produces pain and incapacity in the limb or part; but, these are only equivocal symptoms, and cannot distinguish the case from a fracture, nor even from a simple contusion. A severe, but obtuse, pain arises from the pressure of the head of the bone upon the muscles ; sometimes the pain is rendered more acute by the pressure being made upon a large nerve. {Sir A. Cooper's Treatise, p. 6.) In order that a dislocation of the hip or shoulder may happen,_ there must be a particular attitude of the limb during the action of the external violence. Indeed, in the former, the displacement can hardly occur from the direct action of the cause on the arti- culation itself. The force always acts with greater efl'ect the further it is from the joint, and the longer the lever is which it affects. Thus, in a fall on the side, when the arm, raised considerably from the trunk, has to sustain all the weight of the body on a point at its inner side, the probability of a dislocation is evident, and even that the head of the bone has been forced through the lower portion of the capsular ligament. The symptoms, which Boyer terms positive, de- serve to be well remembered. 1. In dislocations of orbicular joints, and com- plete luxations of ginglymoid joints, the articular surfaces are not at all in contact, and the point where the dislocated bone is lodged, cannot bo upon the same level with the centre of the cavity, from which it has been forced. Hence a change iu_ the length of the limb. In the ginglymoid joints, such alteration can only be a shortening proportioned to the extent of the displacement. But, in tlie orbicular joints, the bone may bo dis- placed aiul carried above, or below, the articular cavit}', so that, in the first event, a shortening, in the second, an elongation of the limb, will be pro- duced. But as the direction of the member is at the s.ame time altered, it is not always practicable to place the limbs parallel together, nor to bring them near the trunk, for the purpose of judging whether they are lengthened or shortened. A