66 AMPUTATION. entirely restricted to cases of mortification ; fur- ther thej' were afraid to go ; and this precept, and all the other doctrines of Galen, may be said to have been the guide of the whole surgical profes- sion for at least fourteen centuries. The timid Arabians were not partial to ampu- tation ; and even in cases of mortification, gene- rally preferred a farrago of useless applications, like Armenian bole, &c. Paulus /Egineta, like Galen, deviated from Celsus's good rule of making the incisions in the healthy parts, and only approved of making the requisite division near them. (Lib. iv. c. 19, p. 140.) Avicenna repeated the direc- tions left by the Greek writers (Can. lib. iv. Fen. 3, tr. 1, p. 454), and Albucasis recommended the performance of the operation witli a red-hot knife. (Chintrff. lib. i. sect. 52, p. 99.) In the middle ages, little was done for the improvement of amputation. But in the fourteenth century, gun- powder was invented, and soon applied to the purposes of war; so that an abundance of cases must have presented themselves, in which the wise maxim of not deferring amputation until mortifica- tion had come on, but of preventing the mischief by the operation, ought to have struck an intelligent surgeon. One might also have expected that prac- titioners would now have been led to make the incisions in the sound flesh. Unfortunately, the invention of gunpowder, and its immediate conse- quences in surgery happened at a period when practitioners were ill qualified to profit by the new lessons of experience set before them. The writings of their predecessors furnished them with no directions how they ought to act, and they were themselves too much confounded at the sight of the mischief for which they were consulted, to be able to form any correct opinion about causes and effects. Their first idea was, that the terrible symptoms proceeded from the parts being actually burned, and they afterwards inclined to believe that gunshot wounds were poisoned. Hence the most absurd modes of treatment were instituted, and, as Briinninghauaen expresses himself, human nature groaned under a new evil, for which there were for some time no judicious plans of relief. ( Erfahr 4"c. vher die Amp, c. 19.) This deplorable state was the natural result of the depression of science in general, and of the healing art in parti- cular, in the days to which I now refer. In these middle ages, as they are called, the population of all Europe was plunged in the deepest ignorance ; and whatever little knowledge remained either of the arts, or languages, was monopolized by the priesthood, the physicians of those times, whoinstead of studying the volume of nature, wasted most of their time in discussing the doctrines of Galen. Surgery itself sunk to the lowest ebb, as may be well conceived from the decrees issued by Pope Boniface the Eighth, forbidding any of the clergy to do any thing themselves which drew blood ; and of course, all the operative part of surgery was transferred to a set of illiterate, low-bred mechanics, far inferior to the worst country farriers of modern times. Yet, the clergy, who were thus scrupu- lously averse to soiling their own hands with blood, or hurting their own tender feelings by viewing the agony of their fellow-creatures, when submitted to operations, had no hesitation in taking the chief emoluments and honours of the profession, or in turning over these poor sufferers to men more quali- fied to torture and murder than give relief ; and, what nearly staggers all credulity, the same profes- sors of Christianity, who shuddered to spill a drop of blood themselves on a proper occasion, as llaller observes, eagerly had a hand, and acted an important part in every sanguinary war where it was possible for them to interfere. In these dismal days of surgery, the advice delivered by Celsus was renewed by Theodoricus, who used to administer opium and hemlock previously to the operation, for the purpose of rendering the patient less sensible of pain, and afterwards vinegar and ■ fennel were given, with the view of dispersing the intoxi- cating effects of the preceding medicines. {CMriirg. lib. iii. c. 10.) The renowned Guido di Caulico vvas the in- ventor of the plan of taking off limbs without bloodshed. It is better, says he, for the limb to drop off, than be cut off. This practice consisted in covering the whole member with pitch plas- ter, and applying round one of the joints so tight a band that the parts below the constriction ulti- mately dropped oflT. {Cldrury. tr. 6, Doctr. 1, cap. 8.) The method of amputating, suggested by Celsus, was again revived by Gersdorf, who, alter the operation, not only drew down over the stump the skin which had been retracted, but ap- plied a hog's or bullock's bladder over the stump, so as to render all burning and stitching of the part needless. {FeldhiKli der Wimdarxn. fol. 63.) I5ar- tholomew Maggi also endeavoured to preserve a considerable flap of integuments for covering the stump. {De Vulner. Bombard, et Sclopet, 4to. Bonon. 1552 ; see SprengeVs GescMchte der Chi- rurgie, p. 404, 406, 8vo. Halle, 1805.) At length, in the ISth century, when the revival of learning had commenced in Italy, medical practitioners began to think for themselves again, and they turned from compilations and scholastic nonsense to the consideration of nature. Anatomy was cultivated with great ardour, and made brilliant progress under eminent characters of the time ; De la Torre, Berengarius Carpi, Vesalius, Fallo- pius, Eustachius, and others, who were also for the most part very distinguished surgeons. " In Italia scie7iUarum matre medici se nunquam cld- ritrgia abdicarunt. Seculo 15 et 16, professores medici academics Bononiensis, Patavince, et aliarum in Italia illustrium scholarum ei manu airaverunt, et consilio, et inter istos viros summi chirurgi ex- titerunt." {Haller, Bihl. Chir. b. i. p. 161.) Practitioners now ventured to amputate limbs in the sound part for other incurable diseases besides mortification ; but the art of stopping hemorrhage after the operation continued imperfect. Though the method of applying the ligature in cases of wounded arteries and aneurisms was understood, yet, from some unaccountable causes, the practice was never thought of in amputation. Even Fallo- pius knew of no other means for stopping the bleeding but the cautery. {Do Turn, praitcrn. p. 665.) On the whole, the stoppage of bleeding \yas not attended with a degree of success, propor- tionate to the advances of the healing art in gene- ral. Straps, bands, and compresses were, indeed, put round the member ; but, as the circulation of the blood was not yet correctly known, they were not applied in the proper places ; being arranged either close to the wound, or several of them put at random round the limb. The effect of such immoderately tight, long-continued constriction, could be nothing less than gangrene, and hence 15 4