GLEET. 785 lowed Ly bleeding from the iris, -which appeared to stop after the small iris vessels were emptied. In one case the lens was wounded, it escaped with some of the vitreous, and a troublesome iritis with lymph formation followed. Sixteen out of a hundred and seven eyes may be said to have been injured by the operation; that is to say, so many patients who would have lost vision if no operation had been done, went through a certain amount of pain and anxiety with a chance of having sight restored. It may be said that in about eighty cases the operation has had a good, and, so far, a lasting result. For exact details the reader is referred to the tables which have been published in the Ophthal- mic Hospital reports. The results for vision, later than those tabulated, are equally satisfactory : statiqnary in nearly all cases as regards the power of distinguishing small objects, and greatly im- proved as regards the recovery of sensibility of the more peripheral parts of the retina in many others. Mr. Hancock (in No. 12 of the Ophthalmic Hospital Reports) recommends the division of the ciliary muscle in glaucoma. He states that " the ciliary muscle is either, as in the acute or earlier period of the disease, thrown into undue action, or, as in the advanced stages of the same complaint, is converted into a state of mere atrophy and is thus deprived of its elasticity, and that, from the peculiar arrangement of the vessels of the choroid with reference to this muscle, the circulation through these vessels is impeded." One object of the operation is " the improvement of the blood-vessels by removing constriction, and so relieving the cir- culation through them, with the view of either entirely arresting, or at all events of diminishing, the abnormal secreting action." " The operation, which is very simple and by no means painful, is performed in the following manner: A Beer's cataract knife is introduced at the outer and lower margin of the cornea where it joins the sclerotica. The point of the knife is pushed obliquely backwards and downwards, until the fibres of the sclerotica are divided obliquely for rather more than one-eighth of an inch; by this incision the ciliary muscle is divided, whilst if there be any fluid accumulated it flows by the side of the knife. In performing the operation care should be taken not to allow the incision to extend at all into the transparent cornea, as whi^n this takes place the iris is apt to protrude through the cut, and the pupil is consequently deformed by being drawn in that direction, &c.'' The writer thinks it necessary to remark that he has met with several cases of glaucoma at the Eye Infirmary, Moorficlds, which had thus been operated on by Mr. Hancock, and where a fresh glaucomatous attack made Von Oraefe's operation of iridectomy necessary. For a full account of the nature and treatment of glaucoma see Archivs fur Ophthalmologic (edited by Von Graefe, Bonders and Arlt). Bd. iii. Abthl. ii. Berlin, ] 857,—and Dr. Stelniag von Carion, Die Ophtlialmologie, ^c. 1057.] C. Dader. See alsoTr. O.Benedict, de Morbls Humoris Vitrei, 4to Lips. 1829. O. J. Gnlhrk, on Opcrntivc gur^ery of the Eye, 8vo. cd. 2. Lond. 1827. 0. //. \VeUcr,o\\ llis. of the Kye, tr. by 0. C. Montealh, 2 vols, 8vo. 1821 ; or rather the Inst German ed.Svo. 1820. Also, Jonea, OplithalmolOKia;, Fasc. 1. W. Lanri nce, on l>i3. of the Kye, 8vo. Lend. 1844, cd. 3. W. Mackenzie, in Glasgow Med. Journ. vol. iii. p. 259; and aTrcatise on IJis. of the Eye, ed. i. 8vo. Lond. 1854. Ph. Tr. Walther, Abhand Auffen, &c. Landsh. 1810. Eble, in Ammon's Zeilschrift, vol. i. R. Middlemore, on Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. 8vo. Lond. 1835. [Wharton Jones, on Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery, ed. 2. 1855. Ophtlialmic Hospital Reports, 1857, 1858, 1859.] GLEET. By the term gleet is commonly under- stood a continued running, or discharge from the urethra, after the inflammator}' symptoms of a clap have for some time ceased, unattended with pain or scalding in making water, &c. Mr. Hunter remarks that it differs from a gonorrhcBa in being uninfectious, and in the discharge consisting of globular bodies, contained in a slimy mucus, instead of .serum. He says that a gleet seems to take its rise from a habit of action which the parts have contracted. The disease, however, sometimes stops of itself, even after every method of treatment has been ineffectually tried. This probably depends upon accidental changes in the constitution, and not at all upon the nature of the disease itself. Mr. Hunter had a suspicion that some gleets were connected with scrofula. Certain it is, the sea- bath cures more gleets than the common cold bath, or any other mode of bathing ; and a cure may sometimes, but not always, be accomplished by an injection of diluted sea-water, [The opinion of most surgeons of the present day is that a gleety discharge following a gonor- rhoea is not lightly to be pronounced free from infecting properties. Very slight additional irri- tation, such as intercourse with the opposite sex would produce, may convert the colourless dis- charge of gleet into a purulent fluid, which will cause all the symptoms of gonorrhrea in a female.] Gleets are often attended with a relaxed con- stitution. They also sometimes arise from other affections of the urethra, besides gonorrhoea. A stricture is almost always accompanied with a gleet ; and so sometimes is disease of the prostate gland. It is remarked by Mr. Hunter that if a gleet does not arise from any evident cause and cannot be supposed to be a return of a former gleet, in consequence of a gonorrhoea, either a stricture or diseased prostate gland is to be suspected ; an in- quiry should be made whether the stream of uriife is smaller than common, whether there is any dif- ficulty in voiding it, and whether the calls to make it are frequent. If there should be such symptoms, a bougie rather under the common size should be introdnced ; and, if it passes into the bladder with tolerable ease, and the patient is nearly fifty, or upwards, the disease is probably in the prostate gland, which shoidd next lie examined. (See Ubethra, Strictures of; and Prostate Gland.) Balsams, turpentines, and the tinctura cantha- ridis, given internally, are of service, especially in slight cases ; and when they are useful, they prove so almost immediately. Hence, if they had neither lessened nor removed the gleet in five or six days, Mr. Hunter never continued them longer. The same observation applies to cubebs, so celebrated as a remedy for gonorrhoea and gleet, and the common dose of which is 5ij- in any convenient fluid three times a day, As the discharge, when removed, is apt to recur, such medicines should be continued for some time after the symptoms have disappeared. When the whole constitution is weak, the cold 3 E