210 the tumor becoming solid and ceasing to pulsate; whereas, in every case in which the vessel was ligatured, a fatal result speedily ensued. Under these circumstances, I think it is an operation that few prudent surgeons would again venture on per- forming.] Carotid Aneurisms. There is no part of the body where the diag- nosis of aneurisms is more liable to mistake than in the neck. Here the disease is particularly apt to be confounded with tumors of another nature. I have already cited in this article examples m which aneurisms of the arch of the aorta so_ re- sembled those of the carotid, as to have deceived the surgeon who was consulted. A swelling of the lymphatic glands, or of the cellular substance which surrounds the carotid artery ; an enlargement of the thyroid gland ; and especially abscesses, may resemble an aneurism by the pulsations commu- nicated to them from the neighbouring artery. On the other hand, aneurisms of long standing, which no longer throb, and the integuments over which are changed in colour, and likely to burst, may the more easily be mistaken by an inattentive practitioner for chronic abscesses, as the neck is remarkably often the seat of such diseases. {Boyer, Maladies Chir. t. ii. p. 1(35.) Scarpa mentions one unfortunate patient, who was killed by a knife being plunged in a carotid aneurism, on the supposition that the case was an abscess. I need scarcely observe, that, by opening a carotid aneurism, a surgeon would expose him- self to the disgrace and mortification of seeing the patient die under his hands, as happened in the example cited by Harderus. {Apiar. Ohset-va- iionnm, Obs. Ixxxvi.) The possibility of tying the carotid artery, in cases of wounds and aneurisms, without any in- jurious effect on the functions of the brain, is now completely proved. Petit mentions, that the ad- vocate Vieillard had an aneurism at the bifurcation of the right carotid, for the cure of which he was ordered a very spare diet, and directed to avoid all violent exercise. Three months afterwards, the tumor had evidently diminished ; and, at last, it was converted into a small, hard, oblong knot, without any pulsation. The patient having died of apoplexy, seven years afterwards, the right ca- rotid was found closed up and obliterated, from its bifurcation, as low down as the right subclavian artery. {Acad, des Sciences de Pans, an. \ibo.) Haller dissected a woman whose left carotid was impervious. {Opuscula PalM. Ohs. xi.K. tab. l.) An example of the total closure of both carotids, in consequence of ossification, is stated by Ko- berwcin to be recorded by .Tadelot. {German Transl. of Mr. IIodr/so7i's Work, p. 293.) Hc- benstreit (vol. iv. p. 2()U, ed. 3, of his Translation of B. Dell's Suryerii) mentions a case in which the carotid artery was wounded in the extirpation of a scirrhous tumor. The lieniorrhage would have been fatal, had not the surgeon immediately tied the trunk of the vessel. The patient lived many years afterwards. This is probably the earliest authentic instance in whicli a ligature was applied to the carotid artery. Mr. Abenicthy's case is perhaps the second: and that in which Mr. Fleniin"-, a naval surgeon, tied the common ca- rotid in"a sailor, who attempted suicide, and who ANEURISM. was saved by the operation, is still later, not having occurred till the year 1803. (See Med. Chir. Joxirn. vol. iii. p. 2.) Dr. Baillie knew an instance, in which one ca- rotid was entirely obstructed, and the diameter of the other considerably lessened, without any ap- parent ill elTects on the brain. (See Trans, for the Jmprovemeni of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, vol. i. p. 121.) Sir Astley Cooper has also re- corded an example, in which the left carotid was obstructed by the pressure of an aneurism of the aorta ; and yet, during life, no paralysis, nor im- pairment of the intellects, had occmred. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. i. p. 223.) A similar case is related by Pelletan. {Clin. Chir. t. i. p. 68.) Mr. Abernethy was under the necessity of tying the trunk of the carotid, in a case of extensive lacerated wound of the neck, where the internal carotid, and the chief branches of the external carotid were wounded. The patient at first went on well ; but, in the night, he became delirious and convulsed, and died about thirty hours after the ligature was applied. This case fell under my own notice ; and the inference which I drew was, that the man died more from the great quantity of blood which he lost, and the severe mischief done to the parts in the neck, than from any effect of the ligature of the artery on the brain. In another instance, in which the common carotid was tied, on account of a wound of the external carotid by a musket-ball, complicated with fracture of the condyle and coronoid process of the lower jaw, every thing went on favourably until the seventh day after the operation. Nei- ther the intellectual faculties, nor the functions of the organs of sense, had been at all disturbed. But, at that period, stupor, confusion of ideas, restlessness, a small unsteady pulse, discoloration of the face, and loss of strength came on, foUow-ed in the evening by a violent paroxysm of fever. On the eighth day, three copious hemorrhages took place from the whole surface of the wound, and on the ninth the man died. In this case, how- ever, the affection of the brain and the other unfavourable symptoms would be ascribed by no- body to the effects of the ligature on the carotid, but every one would see the cause in the severe and extensive local mischief, produced partly by the musket-ball, and partly by the mode in which the operation was performed, the surgeon having extended his incisions from the parotid gland to within an inch of the clavicle ! (See Journ. Gene- ral de Med. cOc. })ar Sedillol.) , . . That the carotid may be tied without injuring the functions of the brain, and that aneurisms ot this artery admit of being cured by the operation, is now fully proved. The following is the second S now lUliy IJluicu. a instance in which I have been present at the ope- ration of tying the carotid trunk on account ot a '''°S?AstleyCooperhasthehonouroniavingbecnthe first m-geon who ever tied the carotid or the cure of aneurism. The operation referred to was per- formed November, 1805, on Mary EJvvards ag^ forty-four, who had an aneurism of « "g' ?V rotid artery : the tumor reached f"!" »; ><^ ^ of the chin to beyond the angle of ^'^^^^'^^ downward to within two inches "'"^ =^ the clavicle. The swelling had .a .troj pulsatory motion. The woman also complnmcd of a par t cular tenderness of the scalp, on the same side o.