75 AMPUTATION. as gained but few advocates in this coimtry. By Sir Astley Cooper, the practice was found to oc- casiou suppuration, and he therefore gave it up. {Lancet, vol. i. p. 149.) Mr. Guthrie, in two or three instances, had also seen some ill-looking abs- cesses ai-ise from the presence of the bits of liga- ture, though he approved of the plan where the wound will not unite by the first intention, which, liowever, can rarely be known beforehand. {On Gunshot yVounds,p.9i\.) When amputation is per- formed in crowded hospitals, where hospital gan- grene is prevailing, Delpech was an advocate for the plan, because it enabled the surgeon to bring the lips of the wound more perfectly together. By this means, as his experience had taught him, the risk of the wound , being infected was materially lessened. (Ckirurgie Cliniqtie, t. i. p. 83.) The small particles of the ligatures, enclosed in the stump, he says, are discharged at a period when the patient has regained strength enough to be removed into a healthy atmosphere ; little openings being produced for their escape, which heal up in twenty- four hours. Sometimes, the sawn surface of the bone itself bleeds rather profusely. When this happens, it is an excellent plan to hold a compress of lint over the end of the bone, during the time requisite for securing the rest of the vessels. The bleeding from this source will then give no further trouble. At the end of this period, the compress may generally be taken away, the bleeding from the bone having entirely ceased. The surgeon ought not to be content with tying only such vessels as he observes throwing out blood, while the patient is faint with pain ; he should endeavour to rouse him from that feintish state by a cordial, and then, wiping off the coagulated blood with a sponge wet in warm water, he should examine narrowly all the surface of the stump ; for otherwise he may expect to be obliged by a fresh hemorrhage to undo all the dressings. {On Ampuiaiion of the Larger Exlremities, p. 475, Monro's Works.') When there is merely an oozing from small ves- sels, Bromfield's advice to loosen the tourniquet completely is highly proper, as this measure, and washing the stump with a little cold water, will put an entire stop to such bleeding, without any occa- ssion for more ligatures. A good deal of blood is .'sometimes lost from the mouths of the larger veins ; J and where they bleed much in debilitated subjects, ' I think Dr. Hennen is right in recommending them to be tied. {On Militarij Surgery, p. 264.) There is no necessity for doing so, however, in ordinary cases ; nor should I be disposed to imitate Mr. Hey, who, in consequence of having seen a few in- stances of bleeding from the femoral vein, gene- ■ rally enclosed that vessel in the ligature along with the artery. {Practical Obs. in Surgery, p. 530, ed. 2.) This method was sanctioned by the eminent Desault, who says, that if the vein be left open, and the bandage at the upper part of the limb be too tight, the blood regurgitates downwards, and hemorrhage takes place, as this surgeon assures us he has often seen. When the vein and artery lie close together, as often happens, he recommends one branch of the forceps to be introduced into the artery, and the other into the vein ; which being done, the two vessels are to be drawn out together, land included in one ligature ; but if they are not 80 near together, they must bo tied separately. {CEuvres Chir. do Desault, ^'ar Diclmt, t. ii. p. 550, 8vo. Paris, 1801.) In the hospitals of London, it is not the usual practice to tie veins, and, except in particular cases, I consider the custom wrong, be- cause a ligature on a large vein sometimes excites a dangerous and fatal inflammation within the vessel, while the intervention of the vein between the one side of the circle of the ligature and the artery, must rather tend to hinder the thread from operating In the most desirable manner upon the latter vessel. For further remarks on venous bleeding during operations, see Hemorrhage. Op Dressing the Stump. The wound is now to be evenly closed with strips of sticking-plaster, and in general, after cir- cular amputations, in such a manner that the edges of the skin may form a straight line across the face of the stump. This was the mode commended by Alanson, and is what is preferred by the gene- rality of surgeons in this country. Over these plasters and the ends of the ligatures, it is best to place some pieces of lint, spread with the luiguen- tum cetacei, in order to keep such lint from sticking, which becomes an exceedingly troublesome circum- stance when the dressings are to be removed. I am decidedly averse to the plan of loading the stump with a large mass of plasters, pledgets, com- presses, flannels, &c. ; and I see no reason why the strips of adhesive plaster, and a pledget of simple ointment, should not suffice, when supported by two cross bandages, and a common linen roller, applied spirally round the limb, from above down- ward. The first turn of the roller, indeed, should be fixed round the trunk, while the lower circles secure the cross bandages, often called the Malta cross, over the end of the stump. It is also an excellent method to leave some little interspaces between the plasters, and in summer to keep the linen bandages constantly wet with cold water. In this way, any discharge will readily escape, and the parts, being kept coo], will be less disposed to hemorrhage and inflammation. Sir Astley Cooper states, that he has seldom succeeded with his stumps above the elbow or knee, when a roller was not employed, which, he says, prevents retraction of the muscles and exten- sive suppuration. After applying the roller, and bringing the integuments together, he merely puts three strips of adhesive plaster over the wound and one round the stump, to keep the ends of the plaster in their place : in hot weather he applies a lotion of spirit of wine and water. {Lancet vol. i. p. 150.) I am completely of opinion with Mr. Alanson that the elastic woollen cap, sometimes placed over all the bandages and dressings, if not put ou with a great deal of care, has a tendency to push the skin backward from the extremity of the stiunp ; and, as it must also heat the part, its em- ployment should bo discontinued. In the North London Hospital, stumps are very lightly dressed, and, for the lirst few hours, Mr. Liston, who al- ways practises flap amputation, merely keeps the flaps together with two or three sutures, and lays over the stump linen or lint wet with cnld water. The best position for the stump is that in which it is supported on a small pillow, and moderately raised. [Points of interrupted suture, at a distance of about an inch from each other, are now very gene- rally employed in the union of wounds after am-