536 DISLO( and make extension and counter-extension. At the proper moment, tlie surgeon employs his fingers in the manner indicated, and directs the assistant charged with the extension to flex the fore-arm, and he will perceive that the articular surfaces have recovered their natural situation. (TrailcdesMai. CIdr. t. iv. p. 223.) This method will generally be successful. If the strength of the patient, or the long continuance of the luxation, render it necessary to employ a greater force, extension is to be made with a towel applied on the wrist, and a cushion is to be placed in the axilla, and the arm and trunk fixed, as is done in cases of luxation of the humems. In Sir Astley Cooper's method, the patient sits in a chair. The surgeon places his knee on the inner side of the elbow, in the bend of the joint ; and, taking hold of the patient's wrist, bends the arm. At the same time, he presses on the radius and ulna with his knee, so as to separate them from the os humeri. Thus the coronoid process is pushed out of the posterior fossa of the humerus ; and whilst the pressure is kept up with the knee, the arm is to be forcibly, but slowly, bent, and the reduction is soon eiFected. According to the same' authority, the bones may also be reduced by bend- ing the arm over a bedpost, or by bending it, whilst it is engaged in the opening of tlie back of the elbow chair in which the patient sits. {On Dislocations, p. 469.) [Sir A.. Cooper's method is that most commonly adopted in this country ; it is not, however, uni- versally approved. Mr. Skey prefers simple exten- sion in the straight line ; thinlcing that it affords the readiest mode of detaching the coronoid process from the posterior surface of the humerus, and also because it employs equal and fair tension both on the biceps and brachialis in front, and on the triceps behind ; all that is required for success being, in his opinion, to bring the coronoid process below the trochlea of the humerus—for the radius presents little or no obstacle—when it will rush forward to its natural surface, and the dislocation is reduced. {Op. Surg. p. 94.) The resources, then, which the surgeon has at his command for the reduction of recent dislo- cations, consist of the following methods: —1st. Simple extension in the straight line ; to which may be added, if necessary, pressure and counter- pressure upon the displaced extremities of the bones. 2nd. Extension in the straight line, and coaptation by means of direct pressui'e on the ends of the bones, and a sudden change from the straight to the bent position, as advised by Boyer. 3rd. Extension throughout in the bent position, as re- commended by Sir A. Cooper. In the case of an incomi)la(e dislocation, either of these plans will suffice, but a less degree of extension will probably be required, as it is only necessary to disengage the articular surfaces from each other, when they will either pass of their own accord into their proper situation, or the co- aptation can be completed without difficulty by pres3ure.3 After the reduction, a bandage may be applied, evaporating lotions used, and the arm kept in a sling. The swelling, which follows, is to be com- bated by antiphlogistic means. At the end of seven or eight days, when the inflammation has subsided, the articulation is to be gently moved, and the motion is to bo increased every daj', to remove the Btiffness wliich often follows these injuries. Most recent dislocations of the elbow are easily reduced, and as easily maintained so ; for a dis- placement is prevented by the reciprocal manner in which the articular surfaces receive each other, and by their mutual eminencies and cavities. [If a recurrence of the displacement should take place after the reduction, it is probable that the dislocation is complicated with fracture of the coronoid process. When that process, and the brachialis muscle which is inserted into it, are de- tached from the ulna, there is nothing to prevent the bone again passing backwards behind the trochlea, under the slightest impulse from without, or simply by the contraction of the triceps muscle. When this fracture exists, the detached coronoid process rnay perhaps be felt on the anterior aspect of the joint; or by bending the fore-arm beyond a right angle, the surfaces may be brought into con- tact, and crepitus be distinguished. To maintain the reduction, it will be necessary to keep the elbow bent at, or somewhat beyond, a right angle, and this position must be maintained for three weeks or a month, before passive movements are commenced, in order to afford time for the union of the fracture. Sir A. Cooper believes that the union will be in most cases ligamentous.] Sometimes in this luxation, the annular ligament, which confines the head of the radius to the ex- tremity of the ulna, is torn, and after the reduction the radius becomes displaced either backwards or forwards from the ulna. In such cases, pronation and supination are difficult and painful ; though the principal luxation has been reduced. The radius may be easily replaced by pressing it in the proper direction, and it is to be kept in its place by a compress, applied to the anterior or posterior aspect of the fore-arm, as the case may require. The bandage and compress are to be taken oif every two or three days, and the joint gently bent and extended. [For the reduction of old dislocations, greater force will be required. Boyer recommended for their reduction the employment of the pulleys, in the same way as in dislocation of the shoulder, to make extension and counter-extension in a straight line from the wrist and shoulder. He advised that the joint should be previously moved forcibly in different directions, to weaken or to break down, if possible, the new adhesions wliich have been formed. A dislocation of the elbow becomes irreducible at a much earlier period than a dislocation of the shoulder. Boyer speaks of a month or six weeks as the time beyond which it would be useless to interfere. Many instances are recorded, liowever, in which reduction lias been accomplished after a much longer interval than this. Sir A. Cooper succeeded at three montlis, M. Maisonneuve also at three, and M. Roux at five months. Mr. Darke was successful on two occasions, once at five months, and once at fourteen weeks after the accident. In these cases continuous extension was practised ; the traction being kept up in the first case for the ex- traordinary period of eight hours and a-half. The pulleys were applied, and the force was increased every ten minutes for two hours <aud .vhalf; the elbow was then bent to 25°, and the extension was continued at this angle for two hours. It was then bent to 0'0°, and traction was made for ano-