HEAD, INJUR 3 0 4 occur more frequently over the former than the_ latter regions : thus, of the forty cases operated on, and in which no cerebral protrusion took place, the injury was wholly or partly over the parietal bone in twenty-four cases, over the frontal in thirteen, over the occipital in five, and over the temporal in one. Sir Philip Crampton has re- corded a case in the Dublin Medical Journal where the protrusion took place through the occi- pital bone, and Dr. Thomson in hia reports men- tions another." Of the fatality attending the disease the Glas- gow surgeons remark, "that of fourteen cases twelve died and two recovered. Of three cases detailed by Mr. Stanley, two died and one reco- vered. Mr. Hill relates three cases, all of which recovered ; Mr. Mallet four, which were also successful." In regard to age they say, " There is some ground for the belief that hernia cerebri occurs more frequently in children and in young persons than in patients more advanced in life. Of the thirteen cases, ten were below 30 (8 the youngest, and 27 the eldest), three were 40 or above it (40 the youngest and 46 the eldest). Mr. Stanley's cases were of the respective ages of 11, 12, and 13. Mr. Hill's were 6, 11, and a young woman whose age is not given. Sir Piiilip Crampton's patient was 23. Will_ the greater activity of the cerebral circulation in early life account for this ? " Diagnosis.—The history of the disease when it is the result of accident, and the fact that it can only occur when the natural support of the brain is lost, will readily distinguish it from those comparatively rare carcinomatous affections origi- nating in the cranial bones or the membranes of the brain. And where the hernia is the result of the irritation of a portion of diseased bone upon the dura mater, as in the case quoted from Mr. Pearson, and succeeds the removal of the bone, it will require but little observation to form a cor- rect diagnosis between it and the fungous iumor of the dura mater, which, as it advances in growth, always gives rise to destruction of the bones of the skull. Before hernia cerebri has made its appearance under the circumstances just men- tioned, the dura mater, on the removal of the carious bone, will be found either healthy or merely altered in colour, and pushed up into the aperture of the skull, and its subsequent sloughing to give way to the protrusion of the fungatnig brain will at once lead to the idea that the , disease is in the brain itself, and has not com- menced in the dura mater. In the fungoid disease of the dura mater the thinning of the bone takes place from below, and long before the giving way of the scalp the bono becomes gradually shelled by the pressure, and the scalp is pushed up; and crepitation, like that which the crumpling of parch- ment gives, is usually experienced. In caries, on the contrary, suppuration at an cady period takes place beneath the scalp, and if a probe be passed down to the bone it is found dead. Should the bone be removed, the state of the meml)rane be- neath indicates its freedom from fungoid disease. In the absence of any history of the disease, the nature of the fungaling mass, as shown by the mi- croscope, will afford a tolerably fair criterion of its origin. In hernia cerebri the mixture of true cincritious and medullary matter is commonly at first recognised. In fungoid disease of the dura ,IES OF THE. 935 mater the mass is more fleshlike, although in ap- pearance cerebriform and lobulated; but no dis- tinction of the two substances can be recognised. In the latter, bleeding is a very common concomi- tant; in the former, although now and then occur- ring, yet it is not common, unless the tumor be handled. The blood in hernia cerebri coagu- lates and forms a crust upon the surface, and is of a venous character. In fungoid disease of the dura mater it is discharged apparently from minute capillary vessels. In the former sloughy masses occasionally drop off, giving place to healthy fleshy granulations; in the latter the disease advances without sloughing. Hernia cerebri, if the cause be removed, as after the removal of a foreign body, undergoes spontaneous cure, whilst the fungoid disease of the dura mater advances to the inevi- table destruction of the patient. The only other disease at all likely to be con- founded with the affection now under considera- tion is carcinoma of the brain itself, provided it makes its way through the parietes of the cra- nium. The history of the progress of tumors of this description, which is very like that of the same disease of the dura mater, and their charac- ter after protrusion, would readily lead to a correct diagnosis. They are exceedingly rare. Treatment.—If it be true that the protrusion of the brain occurs generally after the subsidence of the inflammation, active antiphlogistic measures are in- applicable with a view to cut short the progress of the disease, when once the hernia has made its transit through the opening in the skull. But as, just prior to its appearance externally, it not imfre- quently happens that signs of cerebral irritation, and even of pressure, are present, the surgeon should not withhold the employment of the ordinary means of relief; and, therefore, if the strength of the patient be not exhausted, a free abstraction of blood may be had recourse to, with a brisk purge and the ex- hibition of mercury, &c. But when the hernia is fairly established, a mildly antiphlogistic treatment only should be adopted, such as the employment of mercurial purges and saline medicines, and the ap- plication of cold to the head. This must be fol- lowed by such support and stimuli as the exhaust- ing nature of the disease demands. Morphia may be given with advantage. The results of the dissections we have already briefly given prove that deep-seated or diffused abscess, with a general breaking up of the cerebral tissue to a greater or less extent, is frequently found at the root of the tumor; and with this general destruction of parts recovery must be in- compatible. But in cases where the abcess re- mains circumscribed, a free exit to the discharge by an opening, as in one instance referred to, affords the only fair prospect of relief. But we unfortunately have no cliaracteristic symptoms dur- ing life by which such a coiulitinn can be positively asserted,unless the signs of pressure l)e so regarded; otherwise We should be fully justified in adopting the plaixbftreatment pursued by Mr. Hill,"who," to requoto "his own words, " alter having shaved olf tlid tumor, (ilunged a lancet into its root, as often as the stupor and other symptoms showed that matter was lodged there, by which ho was uniformly relievid." To ascertain the condition of parts beneath the fungus, and especially to de- tect the existence of a circumscribed abscess, is clearly so important that I think the surgeon would