severe colic and pain of it became intolerable ; and just at the kick of a iiiule on the belly vomiting eiisutd ; several surgeons believed that these symptoms arose from the hernia being stran- gulated, and recommended an operation. Cru- veilhier objected to this proposal, which, however, was carried into execution: the patient died, and on opening the body, the small intestine was found torn completely across. In the North London Hos- pital a young man died this spring (1836), from the kick of a horse on the abdomen. During the four or five days which he lived after the accident, he frequently vomited, and the belly became con- siderably swollen. Effusion of blood, or of the intestinal contents, was foretold ; but, until the posi mortem examination took place, the exact na- ture of the injury remained doubtful. A laceration of the small intestine was then detected, attended with effusion of its contents. The man died of peritoneal inflammation. Abdomen, Abscesses of the, may take place either in its cavity or its parietes, and may be acute or chronic. In fatal examples of peritonitis, a sero- puruleut fluid is often found in the cavity of the abdomen. In some instances, the pus is circum- scribed by adhesions, which ai-e produced by coagu- lable lymph, and separate the abscess from the rest of the general cavity of the peritoneum. In other cases purulent effusion in the abdomen is the consequence of the bursting of an abscess of some of the viscera, or of perfuration of the small in- testine by ulceration. Chronic tumours of the mesentery, which, in scrofulous children, sometimes terminate in sup- puration, diseases of the ovary, and other abdo- minal viscera, bringing on the formation of mat- ter, may be followed by purulent extravasation. Dr. Seymour in his work on Diseases of the Ovaries, relates the case of a young woman, who, after suffering hectic fever, the cause of which was not apparent, suddenly complained of acute pain in the abdomen, and in a few hours expired. On opening the body, a large quantity of pus was found effused in the peritoneal cavity from an abscess of the right ovary. Dr. Tweedie met with an ovarian abscess of the size of an orange, where the prominent symptoms were incontrollable vomit- ing and sympathetic fever. {Cyclop, of Pract. Med. art. Abscess.) I have seen several instances of ovarian cysts, which had become inflamed after tapping, and secreted a puriform fluid. A woman had an ovarial tumour, supposed to be an ovarian drops}-. After death, the cyst was found to con- tarn twenty pints of well-formed pus. (North Amer. Mc4. Jown. 1026.) Occasionally, however, salutary adhesions are produced between the viscera, and ulceration taking place, an outlet is obtained for the matter through the bladder, anus, or vagina. Thus in the case of a woman, who had had for a long while pains in the right lumbar region, supposed to proceed from suppuration of the kidney, because pus was voided wilh the urine, the right kidney was found after death in the natural state ; but there was an abscess in the right ovary, which was adherent to the bladder, into which the pus had passed through an ulcerated communication. In another patient who had voided pus by the anus, the right kidney suppurated, and became adherent to the colon, with which it cdmmnnicated by a preternatural aperture. For many years, a woman had a hard tumour of considerable size in the abdomen : at length, the ABDOMEN. 3 moment when her death waa apprehended, an im- mense quantity of pus was suddenly discharged from the vagina. The pain abated ; the swelling of the belly subsided ; merely the remains of the induration were now perceptible ; and the woman's health was perfectly re-established. (See Lassus, Pathologic Chir. t. i. p. 138.) In one case, an abscess communicated with the ccEcum, to which and the parietes of the abdomen, the omentum had become firmly adlierent. In tliis manner, a cu-cumscribed cavity was formed, containing ill-conditioned pus, and three or four seeds of fruit, covered by earthy incrustation. (Aberci ombie on Dis. of the Stomach, S,-c. p. 338.) Abscesses of the liver are more common in hot than temperate climates. Frequently, the liver becomes adherent to the neighbouring parts, and then the matter may be discharged through the parietes of the abdomen, or into the colon, stomach, d-uodenum, or gall-bladder ; from which latter the pus may descend by the biliary duct into the bowels, and be discharged per aimm, an instance of which is recorded by Malpighi. Abscesses of the liver have been known to make their way through the diaphragm into the plem-a, or into the air cells of the lungs, so that the pus was coughed up. Andral refers to one case, where an abscess of the liver communicated with the vena cava, and to another, where it burst into the pericar- dium. (Anat. Pathol, t. ii. p. 601.) At the re- quest of the late Dr. Pinckard, I examined the body of a woman, in whose liver there were nearly three pints of pus ; the case was remarkable on account of the gall-bladder having been annihilated, with the exception of a trivial portion of its fmidus' which is now in my possession. The kidney may be the seat of acute or chronic abscess. Sometimes the quantity of matter is small, and the texture of the organ but little changed. _ In other examples, the suppuration may be so copious that none of the original structure of the kidney is left, excepting its capsular invest- ment, which is expanded into a cyst of considerable size, and filled with pus. I attended with Mr. Baker, of Staines, an old man who had symptoms somewhat like those of stone, and one of whose kidneys was found after death converted into- a cyst containing about a pint of purulent fluid. As Andral observes, renal abscesses are some- times so large, that they may be felt through the parietes of the abdomen. (A?iai. Pathol t ii p. 633.) ■ ■ ■ Abscesses of the kidney may burst in the loins, or make their way into the peritoneum, the ureter, or the colon. Abscesses between the peritoneum and abdo- minal muscles, or between the layers of these muscles, or under the integuments of the abdo- men, are attended with considerable variety, ac- cording as they happen to be chronic, or acute ; circumscribed, or diffused ; small, or extensive, riiose of the acute or phlegmonous kind, fnim stabs and contusions, are noticed in the article WouNUS. As for chronic abscesses of the parietes of the abdo- men, they should bo opened in an early stage. Hard indigestible substances, after being swal- lowed, are not unfrequently discharged from ab- scesses in some of the abdominal regions. (See Dc La Grange, in Museum der lleilkuudc, b. iv. p. 154 : a fish bone, which had been swalloiocd, D 2