BLOOD, COAGULATION OF, DURING LIFE, 327 Y 4 XX. p. Sol.) This disease may be chronic or nciite. In iv very htrge majority of cnsos, however, the coaguhition occurs during the progress of other diseases. In any case it is most important, when possible, to I'orra a correct diagnosis, and to study the symptoms produced. These consist, in the most marked cases, of a very sudden and unex- pected invasion of alarming cardiac symptoms, frequently masking tliose of the original disease, and implying some serious impediment to the free circulation of the blood. The special train of symptoms depends on the position, form, and cha- racter of the deposit. The right auricle being by far the most common site, when this cavity is filled the abdominal venous system becomes con- gested, the right •ventricle deprived of blood, the lungs absolutely blanched, and often emphysema- tous, and the arteries comparatively empty. {Richardson.) When the aggregation takes place gradually a peciUiar and distressing dyspnoea occurs, not produced by an arrest of respiration, even in diseases of the air passages or pulmonary organs, as croup or pneumonia, but by a portion of the current of blood to the lungs and nervous cen- tres being cut off. Emphysema of the lung fre- quently occurs, particularly in children. There is diminution of the arterial circulation owing to the left heart being imperfectly supplied with blood, so that the pulse is small and intermitting; there is coldness of the surface of the body, general marble- like pallidity, with the more vascular parts, as the lips and centre of the cheeks, often of a leaden hue from stagnation in the venous system; general mus- cular prostration, the limbs and muscles being in continued restless motion; loss of mental power, involuntary excretions, gasping respiration after failiure of pulse, and death. In the more sudden cases the patient, previously exhausted, on rising or making some muscular movement or strain re- clines or falls breathless, feebly convulsed and dead. This may result from the pulmonary artery being suddenly blocked np with a cylinder of fibrin. Sometimes the symptoms may extend over many days, or even months, and anasarca may supervene as a consequence of the obstruction. When the clot is formed on the l/ft side of the heart, or in the aorla, there is tumultuous action, with a frequent, small, irregular, and unequal pulse, congestion of the lungs, suffocative dyspncea, sense of weight or pressure in the region of the heart, expectoration sometimes mixed with blood, the surface of the body becomes leaden coloured, the body cold, and there are violent convulsions andjcoma preceding dissolution. These symptoms also may extend over many hours or occur sud- denly. If the coagula occur on holh sides of the heart the symptoms consist of violentvascularaction, increasing irregular and confused action of the heart, increased heat of the body, and sudden and excessive dyspnoea, followed by agony from in- tolerable sense of suffocation, occasionally nausea and vomiting, general restlessness and distress ; then cooling of the surface, convulsive tremblings, rapid prostration, coma, and death, Concretions occurring in the pulmonary artery and its ramijini- tions, or both in the artery and' veins, where the pulmonary capillaries are obstructed, or where no such obstruction exists, may fi)rm a permanent but not a perfect obstruction to the current of blood through the lungs, and death occurs with the signs of asphyxia more or less complete. Rapidly fatal asthmatic attacks often owe their origin to these pathological conditions. Death with the symptoms here described often results from coagulation of the blood, and the formation of concretions in pneu- monia, croup, pulmonary apoplexy, and cedema of the lungs, and sometimes sudden death is produced by this cause in such diseases after convalescence has been established, Similar symptoms are pro- duced in diseases attended with poverty of blood, as typhoid fever, in death from exposure to cold, in the cold stage of intermittent fevers, and during protracted syncope. (Paget, Med. Chir. Transac. vol. xxvii. p. 163. M. C. Baron, Rech. stir la Coagulat. du sang dans l^Artera Puhnonaire. Richardson, On the Cause of the Coagulation of ike Blood, 1858.) There are other effects of the coagulation of the blood in the vessels, not immediately compromising life, more particularly described in different parts of this Dictionary. It has been long known, that when a principal artery is blocked up by a coagu- lum, a general disorganisation of the structures it supplies is produced, and when a principal vein is the site of a clot, (sdema occurs in the parts be- yond. The deposit of fibrin also very frequently constitutes an essential part of the reparative pro- cesses in injuries and diseases. (See Aneoihsm. H/EMORRHAGE.) The transmission of masses of clot or particles of fibrin from one part of the vascular system to another, with all the force of the blood's current, may suddenly block up either large or small vessels. Dr. Kirkes and Mr. Paget have confirmed the opinion, formerly entertained, that concretions on the valves or in the interior of the heart are readily detached, and thus conveyed to the brain and other organs. If large, they may suddenly block up large arteries, and so cut off the supply of blood to an important part, or in smaller particles they may be arrested by vessels of less size, and give rise to various effects, those being dependent, in a great measure, npon the side of the heart from which the masses or particles have been detached. Even the fibrin in the " capillary phlebitis " of the kidneys and other organs, and the fibrinous points constituting petechi.-e, this author refers to a similar source. Obstruction by a plug of fibrin from the aortic valves may sud- denly obstruct the carotid or vertebral arteries, and produce congestion and headache, or load to htemor- rhage, exudation, convulsions, or paralysis. The middle cerebral artery has been found blocked up at the angle whence it proceeds, thus appearing to lead to softening of the portion of the brain sup- plied by tliat artery. Coagula in tlie iliac or fe- moral arteries, whether produced in those vessels or brought from a distant part, will lead to loss of pulsu and animal temperature, loss of sensation, paralysis, fcdenwi, erysipelas, and even gangrene iii the liml). {Mod. Chir. 'J'ninsan. vol, xxxv. p, 281,) Coagula in the heart or vessels may undergo successive changes into fibro-cellular tissue and the formation of vessels in their suljstaiice, as occurs in inllannnatory exudations, or may give rise to irritation of the parts with which they are in con- tact, and to inflannnation and suppuration ; and n most important consideration relates to the pro- ducts of their chemical deconiposilion. The coagu- l.'iled blood nnist be separated into serum and clot. The serum has probably no injurious ellects ; its constituents would either bo assimilated by the liquor sanguinis or separated by the BccretiuK