tion of thirty-six grains of the hydriodate in an ounce of distilled water. The result was such amendment of the disease, that a cui'e was confi- dently expected ; but in the end, the ulcer resumed its former dimensions and malignant character. (See Edin. Med. Journ. No. Ixxxvii. p. 283.) Upon the vyhole, the operation is the most likely means of getting rid of cancerous diseases. It is always admissible when every particle of the dis- ease can be removed by it; when the absorbent glands are unaffected ; and the constitution is not too far deranged. Even open cancers, if they can be entirely cut away, may yet admit of it. The removal of cancerous disorders, even in the slightest and most trivial cases, should always be eflfected with the scalpel, in preference to caustic; the use of which, though it may sometimes succeed, by producing a complete destruction of the diseased parts, causes severe agony, and, in the event of its not acting sufficiently on all the diseased parts, ofttn renders the complaint more aggravated, and kills iha patient in a very short space of time. In cases of cancer, the irritation, generally oc- casioned by every application of the caustic kind, together with the pain and inflammation which commonly ensue, are strong objections to the prac- tice. Plunkett's remedy, which is chiefly arsenic, is equally objectionable. Nor can we at once so certainly extirpate every atom of cancerous mischief with any caustic as we can with the knife ; for, with this, we immediately gain an ocular inspection of the surface surrounding the disease, so as to see and feel whether the disordered parts are com- pletely removed, or whether any portion of the disorder requires a further employment of the in- strument. With respect to the pain, that of caustics is infinitely greater, more intolerable, and more tedious than that occasioned by the knife. When caustic also fails in destroying every particle of the disease at once it almost always tends to enlarge, in a very rapid way, the original boundaries of the mischief. For an account of the method of removing scirrhi and ulcerated cancers, sboMamma, Removal of. An escharotic, which has been of late strongly recommended for cancerous affections, is the chlo- ride of zinc, employed in the form of paste. On this subject my friend Mr. Crosse, of Norwich observes, " It can of course only avail when the disease is still local ; but the cases related by Drs. Canquom, Ure, and RioflFrey, many of which oc- curred under the eye of most able surgeons, prove that this escharotic destroys the scirrhous tumor speedily leaving an ulcerated surface, which often readily heals ; and, moreover, it induces no danger from absorption which is a recommendation not possessed by the arsenical paste." The cuticle being first removed by a blister, the ,,hngedenic paste IS applied, composed of one part of chloride of zinc, and two of sulphate of lime. (See Urc in Lond. Med. Gax. vol. xviii. p. 287 ; Canquoh, Mem. sur un Nouveau Mode da Trailcmo.nl cLcs Afeclions Cancerettses, Paris, 18.3.^ ; and /{mfrn/ Neio Treatment of Malignant Diseases and Cancer Lond. 183G.) This writer states, that the paste not only destroys the tumor, but purifies the sur- rounding atmosphere. He uses the chloride of zinc mixed with different proportions of flour, and has applied it to a tumor on the inside of the mouth, and also to the os uteri, with a good result CANCER. 399 (See also J. G. Crosse, in Prov. Med. Trans, vol. V. p. 25.) Dr. Ure, in some observations on lupus, recently published, communicates the following particulars respecting the chloride of zinc : —" The prepara^ tion of the chloride, which I proposed and intro- duced into practice in this country, differs in a mostimportant feature from that originally employed by M. Canquoin. The wheaten flour, prescribed in the French formula, is apt to envelope the chloride in a glutinous dough, which blunts its power, or, at any rate, tends to confine its action to the par- ticles on the surface of the paste ; but the anhy- drous gypsum of my formula, while it can exercise no chemical action upon the chloride, forms a porous medium, through which the whole of the particles of the delitescent chloride may transude upon the morbid albuminous tissue, with the effect of decomposing, or destrojnng it, with certainty, to any definite depth. This preparation of mine has been adopted in several of the London Hospitals, and has been found to be unfailing in its escharotic powers." (See Lond. Med. Gaz. Dec. 3, 1836.) The action of the chloride, and also of the nitrate of zinc upon albumen, and their consequences, in relation to the albumen of cancer, are discoveries to which this gentlemen lays claim. (See Zinc.) .histamond's Account of tlie Metliorts pursued In the Treatment of Cancerous and Scirrhous disorders, 8vo. Lond. 1780 : also Surarical Tracts, &c. Svo. Lond. 1789. James Hill, Cases in Surg-ery, Svo. Edin. 1772. A. Storck. An Essay on the Medical Nature of Hem- lock, &c. Svo. l oud. 17fiO. Sir .John Hill, Plain and Uspful Directions for those who are afflicted with Cancers, 2nd ed. Svo. I.ond. N. Zaffarini, Storia di due IWammelle Demolite nella di cui Scirrosa sos- tanza sono stati trovati nove A^hi. Svo. Venez. 1761. C. Petrits, Diss, sistens histnriam rariorem mamm<e cancrosje, sanguinem menstruum fundentis, methodo simpliciore .sanatae. (Frank. Del. Op. in.) W. Beckett, New Discoveries, relating to the Cure of Cancers wherein a mpthod of dissolving cancerous substance VrlZTY'r^^^' f-o"d. 1711. .7. Burrows, Practical Essay on Cncers, Svo. Lond. 1767. J. An- drce, Obs. upon a Treatise on the Virtues of Hem- lock, in the Cure of Cancers, written by Dr. Storck of Vienna, wherein the Doctor's Cases in favour of that veg-etable are proved insufficient. Svo. Lond. 1761. E. Kentish, Cases of Cancer; with Obs. on tlie Use of Carbonate of Lime, Svo. Newcastle 1802 Fearon on Cancers, with an Account of a new and successful Method of operating, particularly in Can- cers of the Breast, or Testicle, Svo. Lond. 17S6. A Crawford, Experiments on the Matter of Cancer' Sto. Lond. 1790. ^'fnjw* on Cancerous Breasts, Svo' Lond. 1801; and on Morbid Poisons, 2nd ed ISO?" Medical Museum, vol. i. Med. Trans, vol. i. Goonh's Med. Obs. vol. iii. G. L. Bavle, Sur le Cancer Svo Pans, I8I2. Prnct. Obs. on Cancer, by J. Howard' Svo. Loud isn. J. P. Rom, Memoire renfermnnt quelques Vues G(^ii(5rales sur le Cancer, in CEuvres Chir. de Desault, par Bichat, t. iii. p. 406, &c Paris 1803. Inquiry into the Origin and Cure of Constitutional Diseases, Svo, Lond. 1S05 ; and Re ports of the Effects of a peculiar Regimen in Cancer- ous Complaints, Svo. Lond. 181.5. iJnWc', Moihid Anatomy of some of the most important Parts of 11 e Human Body. The Queries of the Society for In vestiirat Off the Nature and Cure of CaiS inuy be" P. .182 &c. Diet des Sciences Mdd. art. Cancer. Mihcrt, Noso . Naturelle, t. i. fol. Paris. isH Wardrop on Kunjfous Haimatodes, in which may be seen an interesting comparative View of this last Af fection and Cancer, Svo. 1809. ])cnman\'! Olis on Cancer, Svo. Lond. 1810. CarmichacVs Essay on the iMIects of Carbonate and other Preparations of Iron upon Cancers,2nd ed. Svo. Dublin. 1S09. il'.Thnmas Commentaries on the Treatment of Scirrhi and Can' cer, 8V0. Lond. ISO.--,, 1817. -V. Younf,, Inquiry into the Nature, &c. of Cancer, Svo. Lond. 1805. Also Minutes of Cases of Cancer and Cancerous Tendency 8V0. Lond. 1816; also further Reports of Cases treated