281 ARSENIC. however, rarely lasts for any considerable time ; but many inveterate ulcerations and anomalous soreo derive permanent benefit from it, and are even completely cured by it. Some examples of lupus, ulcerations about the roots of the nails, and reputed carcinomatous sores of the lips, are of this description. At Paris, an arsenical paste was formerly used by Dubois, and other surgeons of that capital, for cancerous sores of the penis, and other malignant ulcers, li was composed of seventj- parts of cin- nabar, twent}'-t\vo of sanguis draconis, and eight of the white oxide of arsenic (arsenious acid), formed into paste with saliva at the time when it is to be employed. "The pain and inflammation that succeed the use of it (says Mr. Crosse) cannot be equalled by the severest operations with the knife. (Sketches of the Medical Schools of Paris, p. 45, 8vo. J815.) Even death may be oc- casioned by the absorption of the poison, as appears from the two annexed facts, the first of which is recorded by M. Roux, in his Mcdeclne Operatoire. " The day after the paste was applied, the patient complained of colic and severe vomiting, and in two days perished in convulsions, etles plus vires angoisses. The internal coat of the stomach, and a great part of the intestinal canal were inflamed, and marked here and there with dark spots." Just before I visited Paris (adds Mr. Crosse), I dis- sected in London a woman who died under similar circumstances, and where the same morbid ap- pearances were presented, &c. (Op. cit.) Justamond's applications to cancer were gene- rally combinations of arsenic and sulphur. One formula was an ounce of yellow arsenic, with half that quantity of armenian bole, and sometimes as much red precipitate. He also employed a sulphuret of arsenic, and a combination of this sul- phuret with crude antimony. The arsenical pre- paration selected for use was scraped, and laid on the middle of the sore, the edges of which were moistened with a combination of the muriate of iron and muriate of ammonia. In some instances, it is alleged the effects of the treatment were the correction of the fetid smell, melioration of the ap- pearance of the sore, and separation of the cancer- ous part. In the Pharmacopoeia Chirurgica, Justamond's arsenical caustic is directed to be made in the following manner:—Antimonii pulverizati, 5 j. Arsenici pulverizati, 31]. These are to be melted I together in a crucible. The application may be reduced to any degree of mildness by blending •with this pulverised caustic a quantity of opium in the form of powder, which was also supposed to act spi'cifically in diminishing pain. The powder of white oxide of arsenic, unmixed with other substances, has sometimes been sprinkled upon cancerous and other inveterate ulcers ; but the practice is now abandoned by every judicious 8Hr;^con, on account of the violent pain resulting from it, and the not unfrequently fatal conse- quences of its absorption. Could I suppose that a man so rash and ignorant as to revive this murderous practice yet existed in the profession, I should feel disposed to lengthen these remarks ; but I am persuaded that, in this coiuitry at least, more judgment and knowledge everywhere pre- vail. The white oxide of arsenic, however, may be applied with more prudence in other forms ; either in one of those already specified ; or as a lotion, composed of eight grains of the oxide, and the same quantity of subcarbonate of potash, dis- solved in four ounces of distilled water ; or as an ointment, formed by rubbing together one drachm of the oxide, and twelve drachms of spermaceti ointment. (See A. T. Thomswi's Dispensatory, p. 51.) In the American edition of this Dictionary, Dr. Reese observes : " There can be little doubt that arsenic is the basis of the active ingredients of most of the popular nostrums of the day, which are set forth in our public papers as infallible remedies for the cure of cancerous affections, as they are termed ; and hence the manifold evils which we often witness from such practice. So long ago as in 1786, Dr. Rush favoured the public with an exposition of the nature of the famous cancerous powder of Dr. Martin; its base was arsenic; though, like the specifics of our own time, it was alleged to be of a vegetable nature. The external application of arsenic ought to be had recourse to only after the severest scrutiny into the peculiar character of the case and constitution affected. Even in small quantities it has produced apoplexy, mental aberration, organic lesion of the stomach, paralysis, loss of motion, enlargement of the joints, fatal petechias, &c. Arsenic, in fact, may be enumerated among that class of poisons which induces nearly the same effects when externally applied as when taken inwardly. The experiments of Brodie, as well as those oif other philosophers, demonstrate that its influence on the system is no less rapid and dangerous when had recourse to as an external application to denuded surfaces than when applied directly to the stomach. Another peculiarity of its action deserves also farther to be stated -. according to Professor Francis {Lectures on Forensic Medicine), in some cases, even while favourable anticipations from the operation of this powerful agent locally applied are indulged, of a sudden the general health yields, and death ensues rapidly and unexpectedly ; an occurrence of much consideration in the investigations of the juridical physician." Febure's celebrated remedy consisted of ten grains of the white oxide of arsenic, dissolved in a pint of distilled water, to which were then added an ounce of the extractura conii, three ounces of the liquor plumbi subacetatis, and a drachm of laudanum. With this fluid the cancer was washed every morning. Febure likewise gave arsenic internally ; and his prescription was two grains of the white oxide ; a pint of distilled water ; syrup of chicorj', q. s. ; and half an ounce of rhubarb. Of this mixture, a table spoonful was given every night and morning, with half a drachm of the syrup of poppies. Each dose contained about one-twelfih of a grain of arsenic ; but, in propor- tum as the patient was able to bear an increased quantity, the dose was gradually augmented to six table spoonfuls of the solution. Dupuytren was in the habit of employing cer- tam preparations of arsenic, which clemied the diseased surfaces without destroying them. One of his formulffi was a powder; t"he other a" liquid I he arsenious acid constituted the basis of both' The calomel, joined with it, he conceived might have some cfiect ; but the arsenic was the essential thmg. The powder consisted of four parts of arsenious acid, or oxide of arsenic, and ninety- six of calomel. Sometimes the proportion of