231 ANEURISM. Tlio arter}' becomes likewise tortuous, and gra- dually assumes the characters, first, of a vein, and t!ien of a dilated vein. All this happens, however, mily below the communication between the two \ossels. (BrescJie/, Mim. Chir. sur DifiercnUs Ksptces (VAneui: p. 103.) If it were not for the passage of some of the blood of the vein into the artery, Breschet conceives, that it w-ould be impos- sible to account for the diminished rate of the circulation in tiie latter vessel, the reduction of tensibility and temperature of the limb, and espe- cially the enlargement of the artery beyond the tu- mor, its assuming the characters of a vein, and the deeper colour of the blood in it. The vein, likewise, becomes altered around the wound (be- low, and particularly above it), its coats assuming greater solidity and firmness ; and though the vessel is enlarged, the suppleness of its parietes is diminished. (See Breschet, op, cit. p. 104.) No doubt M. Breschet has extended his criti- cisms of Dr. Wni. Hunter's account too far, inas- much as the atrophy and loss of temperature in the extreme part of the limb are certainly, in some measure, owing to a part of the arterial blood flowing directly and prematurely into the venous sj'stem. Dr. Wm. Hunter has chiefly erred in overlooking the effect of the entrance of venous blood into the artery. If, as Hunter states, a greater quantity of blood arrives by the artery above the wound, how does it happen, inquires M. Breschet, tliat the artery should diminish in dia- meter below the puncture, as Dr. Wm. Hunter affirms that he had ascertained to be the case at the wrist ? " For (observes M. Breschet), by the more considerable afflux of red blood, the lower conti- nuation of the artery must be indemnified for the quantity of tliis fluid which passes into the vein. A neiv channel, opened for the arterial Mood, can- not (says he) bring on a dilatation of the vascular trunk aliove the aperture of the neiv channel. This effect would be more likely to arise from some impediment to the circulation, and is actually what does happen in old consecutive false aneurisms." (See Mem. sur les Di/ferentes Especes d'Ancur. p. 105.) jVT. Breschet, further on, expresses a sus- picion, that Dr. Wm. Hunter perhaps confounded the weakness and softness of the pulse at the wrist with a diminution of the artery. I am of opi- nion that little foundation exists for this suspicion, because it is certain that, in some cases of aneu- rismal varix, the arteries below it, so far from being enlarged, are diminished ; and therefore corre- spond to Dr. Wm. Hunter's description. In proof of this fact, I may refer M. Breschet to the evidence of his distinguished countryman, M.Jules Cloquct, who has given the particulars of the dissection of ail aiieurismal varix illustrated by a diagram (pi. 1, lig. i;5), where the brachial artery below the tu- mor was not larger than the middle portion of the radial artery. (See Jules Clociuct, J'athol. Chir. p. (!.5, ')to. Paris, 1831.) According to M. Breschet, in old varicose aneurisms of the limbs, and especially of the lower extremities, the princi- pal artery, as well as its branches, are manifestly dilated, and their coats resemble those of veins. " If the same quantity of red blond jiassed through n vessel of this description, its pulsations would not have the saMie character as those of the artery of the opposite limb. Wo think, then, that this change in the pulsations of the. artery in old aneurisms depends both upon the dilatation of the vessel, de- ' monstrated in the dead subject, and upon the passage of venous blood into the artery; for how- could dilatation and alteration of the parietes of the vessel be accounted for in any other way ? " In the foregoing passage, the statement that a new channel for the blood, arising from an arterial trunk, will not be followed by an enlargement of that trunk above such channel, seems to rne in- correct ; for if there be a new channel, blood will he required for it: an increased quantity will there- fore pass through the trunk above the new channel, and such trunk of course increase in size, agreeably to a well-established law of the animal economy. The case of an old false aneurism, referred to by M. Breschet, seems to me rather to invalidate than strengthen his conclusion, respecting the cause of the enlargement of the arterial trunk above the disease. This change is not ascribable to im- pediment of the circulation, but to the blood having new channels to supply: viz. the sac, and the enlarged collateral anastomosing vessels. An interesting circumstance, pointed out by M. Breschet, is, that the dilatation of the artery be- yond the injur)', is not exemplified in all varicose aneurisms. Their situation has considerable in- fluence in producing it; fur it can only take place in vascular trunks of large calibre ; and it is re- quisite also that venous blood pass into the artery, and that the circulation of this fluid be favoured by the laws of hydraulics and the power of gra- vitation. Hence, this dilatation of the injured artery, regarded by M. Breschet as the conse- quence of the admission of a certain quantity of venous blood into it, is principally noticed in va- ricose aneurisms of the limbs, and'not in those of the neck, or subclavian region. The wound in the artery must likewise have a certain extent, be constantly gaping, and in direct communication with the vein. (See Breschet in Mem. sur Diffe- rentes Espoces d'Aneur. p. 107.) In the remark- able case of spontaneous varicose aneurism of the thigh, recorded by Mr. Perry, the posterior tibial artery and the other arteries in the neighbour- hood of the aneurism were apparently sound, (See Lo7id. Med. Gax. Nov. 1835.) In thin subjects, the median basilic vein is so close to the brachial artery, the track of which it crosses at a very acute angle, that it is almost im- possible to open it at this point, without risk of wounding the artery at the same time. Although the bend of the arm is the situation in which the aneurismal varix and venous aneurism are usually noticed, it is easy to conceive that thej' may hap- pen wherever an artery of a certain diameter lies immediately under a large vein. Thus, Lassus saw an aneurismal varix in the ham, the conse- quence of a wound with a sword, which had trans- fixed the popliteal vein and artery. {i\[cd. 0/icr. t. ii. p. 442.) Breschet records 'instances of it at the upper and inner part of the arm ; in the thigh ; and in the neck, from a communication formed' between the common carotid and the internal jugular vein, by a wound. He likewise gives the particulars of several occasioned by venesection at the bend of the arm, the ordinary situation of the disease. Larrey records examples of it in the subclavian vessels, the extrrnal iliac, the popliteal, and between the carotid artery and internal jugu- lar vein. {Mvm. dn Chir. C/iii. t. iii.) The frequency with which Dupuytren met with these artcrioso-venous aneurisms, as ho terms them, (J 4