D D 3 CANCRUM ORIS, thinks, "extirpation ouglit to Le the rule, notwith- standing tile niituraily ret'nictoiy natiu-vj of cancer, when the whole nf the external tumor or tutnors can be removed without too much difficulty or diinger ; but it ought on the contrary to be re- jected in those instances where the reverse of these conditions is present." He specifies the following conditions as forbidding the operation. " Scirrhus in plates, or en cuirasse, should never be extirpated. Even at the commencement, and when there is but a single plate," recurrence invariably takes place, and usually with great rapidity. " The same must be said of tubercular pustular cancer, whether discrete or confluent. I am persuaded that cancers of this kind have never been cured by operation. Stony scirrhus en masse and dif- fused lardaceous scirrhus stand in precisely the same position. Even when the integuments are unaffected, these species of cancer invariably re- turn. Whenever the scirrhous mass and the skin are confounded together in a diffused form, when the scirrhus is rather protuberant than depressed, and the tegunientary degeneration has no appreci- able limit, and the whole mamma is more or less thickened, there is also nothing to be hoped for from the operation. Even when it is possible to remove with certainty all the diseased parts, when even there is no appearance of a tumor, either in the axilla, or under the border of the pectoralis major, or on the clavicle, or around the principal diseased mass, we may still be assured that the disease will return. Experience also enables us to affirm still more broadly that every cancer, whether in the form of scirrhus or encephaloid, which presents itself with the aspect of a dif- fused or disseminated turnor, will infallibly return after operation." " In the other varieties, on the contrary, if the boundaries of the disease are evident, and the degenerated glands under the pectoralis major, or on the side of the axilla are still movealile, and if in short it does not seem to be too difficult to remove all the tumors with certainty, the operation is permissible, affords some chance of success, and should be performed. Whether an encephaloid cancer be ulcerated or not, if the tumor be still intact, or if it be flattened externally, like a mushroom, and whether it be moveable or not amidst the tissues, extirpa- tion is indicated so long as there is no cancerous tumor elsewhere, either in the form of a tubercle or of a mass in the neighbourhood, and when the general health of the patient affords no proof of cachexia or of internal disease. The operation ought not to be rejected because there may be swelling upon the clavicle, along the neck, or in any other more distant part. It ought, however, to be renounced if the axilla be filled either with disseminated glands, or with masses situated deeply under the clavicle, or amidst the pectoral muscles."] C. Ilanc/fiahl Jones. 405 HlBLtooRAPHY.—[Walshe, on Nnture and Treat- ment ot Cancer. Bennett, on Cancer ous and Cancroid Growths, fiimon. Lectures on Putliolosy. Pnget, Lectures on Tumours. Velpcuu, on Diseases of tlie Breast. Fell, on Cancer and its Treatment. Ileiiort of tlie fiurgicnl Staff of Ike Middlesex Hospil<a on Dr. Fell's Treatment.] CANCER SCROTI. CHIMNEY-SWEEP- ERS' CANCER. (See Scrotum.) CAN'CRUM ORIS. A deep, foul, irregular, fetid ulcer, with jagged edges, on the inside of the lips and cheeks, attended with a copious flow of offensive saliva. It is a perfect specimen of phagedenic ulceration, and in its worst forms not unlike hospital gangrene, as I have seen several deplorable instances of. It also resembles the ulceration and sloughing in the mouth, produced by mercury. The gangrenous inflammation of the pudenda of children is of a similar character. (See Kinder Wood, in Med. Chit: Trans, vol. vii.) The disease is rarely seen in adults ; but most commonly in children from the age of eighteen months to that of six or seven years. The gums, as well as the lips and cheeks, are sometimes affected, in which circumstance the teeth are ge- nerally carious and loose, The ulceration is oc- casionally attended with abscesses, which burst either through the cheek, lip, or just below the jaw. Exfoliations are not unfrequent, and, when the disease is neglected, extensive sloughing some- times happens. According to Dr. Cuming, in most instances, the ulceration, commencing in the gums, extends to the lips and cheek, but sometimes it begins in ihe mucous membrane of the lips or cheek, and thence extends to the gums. This disease is set down by Dr. Cuming as most frequently making its attack during the period of the first dentition, though often met with in children between three and seven years of age. " When the disease occurs in infants at the breast, it is generally attended with a purplish and spongy appearance of the gums and roof of the mouth ; and the ulceration, which lays bare the necks of the teeth, both externally and internally, IS of a greenish, or ash-colour, and very much disposed to bleed. The salivary discharge is in- creased ; the tongue is white ; the mouth feels hot; the bowels are for the most part confined : and the child in general labours under a greater or less degree of fever." (See Dublin Hospital Re- ports, vol. iv. p. 331.) Dr. Cuming has not seen this form of the disease, previously to the irruption of the four superior incisors, but he has frequently seen it when the child had only six or eight teeth • and he has constantly observed, that," when it occurs thus early, it is the upper gum that is first and principally attacked. This appears, to Dr. Cuming, the mildest and most manageable form of the disease ; and he describes it as rarely attended with sloughing. The second variety noticed by Dr. Cuming, occurs in children between tlie ages of twenty months and seven years. The ulceration generally begins in the gums, whence it extends to the lips or cheek. Sometimes it is of an acute, sometimes of a chronic nature, and attended accordingly with more or less sloughing. In the very worst forms however, though the sloughing is considerable, the ulceration is always predominant. (Op. et vol cit. p. 341.) The third variety described bv Dr. Cuming is at first, confined principally to the cheek or lips' It begins with ulceration of their membrane, which IS soon followed by that hard, red, shining, and circumscribed swelling, which, if the disease be not arrested, will speedily pass into gangrene, In this variety, gangrene predominates over ulcer- ation ; and the constitutional disturbance result- ing from it m.ay prove fatal. Living in a marshy situation, want of wholesome food, and inattention to cleanliness, are condu-