320 BLADDER. sliglitest prolapse, and when she was desired to strain violently, the ragse of the vagina were seen, but did not protrude." {Lancet, yo\. i. 1841—42, p. 322; and South, loc. cit.) Both Mr. South's and Mr. Lightfoot's patients were young unmarried women, who had not had children. A very similar proceeding has been practised, on several occasions, in St. Mary's Hospital, by Mr. Baker Brown, in the year 1853, and subse- quently. Mr. Brown, however, recognising the prolapse of the bladder to be due to the relaxation of the anterior wall of the vagina, not only produces the artificial prolongation forwards of the perineum, but endeavours, in addition, to contract the lower part of the vagina, by dissecting oif longitudinally, just within the lips of the vagina, a piece of mucous membrane, about an inch and a quarter long, and three quarters of an inch broad. The upper edge of the part removed should be on a level with the meatus urinarius. The edges of the wound thus made, he brings together by three interrupted su- tures. (See Broivn, On Bis. of Women, p. 74, Lond. 18S4.) Judging, however, from the plate accompanying Mr. Brown's description, and from liis operations, as witnessed by the writer of this article, he is scarcely correct in speaking of the piece of membrane as " iviihin the lips of the va- gina," since it really belongs to the inner surface of the labia and nyniphae, which are not in any way distended by, nor do they form any part of the covering for, the protruded bladder. It is difficult to understand how the removal of a portion of membrane in this situation, and the union of the cut edges in the veHical direction, at right angles to the axis of the vaginal canal, can have the effect claimed for it, of " contracting the vagina laterally, so as to prevent the tumor from falling down from above." All the cases related in Mr. Brown's work are stated to have been attended with per- fect success. He has, however, since mentioned, that one case of prolapsus of the bladder on which he operated has returned again after a second con- finement. (See Med. Times and Gaz. March 13, 1858, p. 277.) For further details respecting the operations performed for the relief of vaginal pro- trusions by Messrs. Marshall Hall, Dieftenbach, Jobert, Fricke, Geddings, Brown, and others, and for the after treatment and management of such cases, the reader is referred to the articles Uterus, Prolapsus of, and Perineum, Rupture of.] [Bladder, Extroversion of.] [Numerous examples of this deviation from the natural conformation are recorded. The malforma- tion consists of a congenital absence of the an- terior wall of the abdomen at its lower part, and a similar absence of the anterior wall of tlie bladder. The ossa pubis, in the great majority of instances, are not joined in the usual manner at the symphjsis, but are separated by an interval, varying in breadth in different cases, and only united by a ligament passing across this space. In consequence of this separation of the bones, the recti muscles diverge from each other below, and in the interval be- tween them the mucous surface of the posterior wall of the bladder is exposed to view, on a level with the abdominal paric tes, or sometimes forming a convexity forwards, in consequence of the intes- tines descending behind it into the pelvis and causing it to project. Tliis surface is covered with mucous secretion; it is of a bright red colour, and bleeds readily if touched. Upon it will be ol- served the orifices of the ureters, usually placed upon two prominent papilla;, and about an inch apart. Through these orifices the urine exudes, in most instances by drops, slowly and continuously; though occasionally it has been observed to be discharged at intervals and in jets, the ureters having been dilated into receptacles capable of containing a certain quantity of fluid, and some degree of power to retain it having been present. The umbilical cicatrix is usually wanting ; the point of entrance of the umbilical vessels in these cases being no doubt involved in the malfonnation. The pelvis is much weakened by the absence of union at the symphysis ; the acetabula are widely separated ; and an imperfect and waddling mode of progression is the result. Extroversion of the bladder occurs in both sexes ; but is much more common in the male than in the female. Mr. Earle could meet with but seven or eight recorded cases in the female, while he found at least sixty related of its occurrence in the male. And of nine cases which came under the observation of Mr. McVVhirmie, only two were females. The organs of generation have usually partici- pated more or less in the deformitj^ The penis has sometimes been altogether wanting. More frequently it forms a short tuberculous projection. It is deeply grooved upon its upper surface, in consequence of the corpora cavernosa not being united in the median line; the floor of this grove is formed by the urethra, the upper wall of which is wanting, thus constituting the condition known as epispadias. Upon the floor of the urethra the fossa navicularis, the lacunfe, and posteriorly the verumontanum have been observed. In one case M. Ne'laton, and in another Mr. T. Wakley, were able to distinguish on each side of the verumon- tanum the orifices of the ejaculatory ducts. The prostate is imperfectly developed, sometimes absent altogether, generall}- deficient in that part of it which should be situated above the urethra. The testes have usually been health)^ but of small size, and situated in a short and contracted scrotum. Females aflSicled with this malformation have at the same time more or less deformity of the gene- rative organs : the clitoris is often divided, and the labia, instead of being united at the superior commissure, are widely separated, and continuous with the integument at the side of the protruding bladder. The deformity, however, has not always been to an extent sufficient to interfere with the procreative function. Two cases of pregnancy in females in this condition, followed by successful parturition, have been recorded. (See Bnt/cr, Traite des Mai. Chir. t. ix. p. 5 ; and Phil. Trans. vol. xxxii. Letter from Oliver to Dr. Mead, quoted by Mr. McWhinnie, jIM. Gaz. 1853, p. 3(jb'.) Persons affocted with extroversion of the bladder suffer greatly from friction of the tumor by the clothing, and from the continual dribbling away of the urine, which not only excoriates the parts over which it flows, but by keeping the clothes constantly wet, causes a highly oflensive urinous odour. To alleviate these annoyances, therefore, some mechanical contrivance becomes necessary; and an apparatus, devised originally by Mr. Earle, but since modified in certam mnior particulars, has been found to cflect the objects desired very completely. It consists of a metallic