295 ASPHYXIA. u 4 we might vainly liave expected any auspicious result from attempting resuscitation ; for no means short of removing from tlie minute vessels of the body that fluid, tlie qualities of which were thus considered incompatible with life, could have been sufficient to accomplish resuscitation, which would therefore have been impossible. It was discovered by Edwards that reptiles, in which the circulation of venous blood is permitted to proceed when they are deprived of air, live much longer than others in which the supply of blood is, under similar circumstances, prevented altogether; and, according to Dr. Kay, "the heart, so far from being rendered less irritable by tiie presence of venous blood in its structure, retains its irritability longer when the fluid fills its cavi- ties, and when a certain congestion of its fibres is produced by retarding the exit of the venous blood from the small veins of its tissue. If the irritability of the heart could not survive the cir- culation of this blood through its fibres, the circu- lation ought to be ai-rested in the left auricle and ventricle; and their cavities and the pulmonary veins should be found congested with this fluid. On the contrary, the left ventricle is invariably found contracted, and containing no more blood than that which moistens its parietes. In the left auricle accumulates the last draiuings Irom the pulmonary veins; but this supply is so inconsi- derable, as to be unworthy of notice, and the pul- monary veins themselves are always empty. The obstacle to the circulation does not, therefore, exist in the heart, but in the lungs." Dr. Kay's investinations and experiments led him to the conclusion, " that death occurs in as- phyxia, because the air not being admitted into the lungs, the changes which are necessary to the transmission of blood through their structure no longer ensue, and the circulation gradually becomes feebler, and is at length arrested in the capillaries of the pu'monarij tissue. Before this result takes place, the blood by degrees assumes more and more of the venous character, until its qualities be- come incompatible with the activity of the minute vesse/s of the bmys. A certain quantity of dark blood, not so changed as to be inconsistent with vital action, is transmitted by the heart and arte- ries to all the organs of the body, and circulated through the nervous system and muscles; but it is found that this fluid, far from destroying the vitality of these parts, maintains the life of the muscles for a certain time, though in a comparatively feebler manner ; and it is also discovered, that though it is deficient in stimulus to the nervous system, and is not capable of supporting the greatest activity of the nervous power, it has no vusitivebi noxious injlucnce on it. The cause of death in asphyxia is the arrest of the circulation, but during the supply of the darker blood to the organs (as it is deficient in stimulating and nutri- tious qualities), and the rajiid diminution of the supply of even this fluid, the functions of every part are enfeebled, and sense and voluntary motion extinguished, before the circulation has actually ceased."—C« the I'hi/siol. Patliiil. and Trc.almmt of Axphi/xia,!,;/./. rhillijis Jui;/, p. 25. Lnml. ](!;}4.) Mr. Kiiclisen ofl'crs a somewhat dill'erent ex- planation of the mode in which the circulation through the lungs is interrupted in asphyxia ; he thinks that the carbonic acid which is retained in the blood act3 as a stimulus to the coats of tlie smaller pulmonary vessels and excites their con- traction, and that it is in this way that the blood is interrupted in its course and ultimately stag- nates. He believes also, " that a diminution in the force and frequency of the contractions of the heart consequent upon the altered quality and lessened quantity of the blood circulating through its muscular substance, is one of the prin- cipal causes of the cessation of the circulation in asphyxia ; as is evident from the fact, that when the force of the heart's contractions is maintained by a supply of arterial blood to its muscular sub- stance, it is enabled to propel black blood through a collapsed lung." The cause of the stoppnge of the circulation, ac- cording to Mr, Erichsen, is i/irep/bW; " depending, 1. Upon the arrest of the respiratory movements ; 2. Upon the weakening of the heart's action; and 3. Upon the obstruction offered to the blood (pro- pelled with diminished force) by the refusal of the pulmonary veins and minute arteries to receive venous blood." For further information on this subject, and for an account of the experiments per- formed, the reader is referred to Erichsen^s Eaperi- mental Inquiry into the Patliology and Treatment of Asphyxia. Loud. 1847 ; and to the excellent work by Dr. Kay, already quoted.] The face of a person who has been drowned is, in general, pale, though slightly livid. A frothy liquid and some water are found in the trachea, bronchi, and air-cells of the lungs : the latter organs are of a violet colour, but contain less blood than where a-phyxia has been occasioned by carbonic acid gas ; the right auricle and ven- tricle are filled with black blood ; in the stomach there is generally more or less water, which has been swallowed; the surface of the brain is of a darker appearance than usual, but its vessels not particularly turgid ; and the air remaining in the lungs contains little oxygen. {J. F. Beryer, Essai surla Causede VAsphyxie par Suhnersion. Geneve, 1805 ; Goodivyn, Un Connection of Life ivith Re- spiration, p. 19.) When the person, at the time of falling into the water was intoxicated, stunned by a blow on the head, or in a state of syncope, there can have been no struggle. Under such circumstances, the tra- chea will contain a little water, but no froth; the lungs will be of their natural colour, and not much expanded ; no water will be found in the stomach- and the blood in the venous system will not be so disproportionate to that contained in the arterial. As Dr. Roget justly observes, the great diversity in these and other circnnistances " will enable us perhaps, to explain the differences that are met with in the time, during which the body may re main under water, compatibly with the possibility ot restoring life. If the submersion have not ex ceeded five minutes, and no blow against a stone or other vio ence lias occurred to complicate the elfects our ellorts at resuscitation, if properly con- ducted, will generally bo successful. After a quarter o( an hour, recovery is not very common- alter twenty minutes, or half an Inmr; it may be considered as nearly hopeless. Tlic longgst period recorded m the Ueports of the ilumane Society is three quarters of an hour. On the other hand some wlio have only been a few minutes under water, cannot be restored to life, oven by the prompt application of jiropcr means." {Dr. liouet, in Cyclop, oj-l'ract. Med. art. Asphyxia.)