DISLOCATION. 577 There did not appear the least tendency in the foot to slip upwards again, and a very speedy recovery ensued. (See Practical Surgery, p. 368, 3rd ed. 1852.) In the museum of St. Mary's Hospital is the cast of an ancle-joint in which the injury is con- sidered to have been of this nature. The accident took place five years before the cast was taken, and the dislocation remained unreduced. No further par- ticulars are stated. The foot is in its natural posi- tion; but the malleoli are widely separated, and both are approximated to the sole of the foot. There is no angular inclination inwards of the fibula which would lead to the supposition of a fracture. In this case the position of the foot accords with M. Nelaton's description; but in that observed by Mr. Fergussonitwas pointed outwards.] Compound dislocations of lite ancle-joint.—[Dislo- cations of the ancle-joint are more frequently com- pound than those of any other joint in the body. The wound leading to the joint may be caused by the force which produces the dislocation, or, what is far more frequent, the laceration of the skin is caused by the bones themselves. It is almost in- variably the bones of the leg, and not those of the foot, which produce the laceration, and which make their appearance externally when protrusion takes place. Thus, — in the dislocation of the tibia inwards, the wound is almost always on the inner side, and the internal malleolus, or, if this has been broken olT, the lower end of the tibia projects; — in the dislocation of the bones of the leg outwards, the wound is on the outer side, and the external malleolus, or if the fibula has been £i;actured, the lower end of the upper fragment, is protruded, often accompanied by the lower end of the tibia also;—in the dislocation forwards, the tibia escapes through a wound on the fore part of the ancle. All the cases hitherto observed of dislocation back- wards have been simple dislocations. The dislo- cation of the bones of the leg outwards appears to be compound in a larger proportion of cases than either of the other forms of dislocation. The treatment of these cases, and the question of resection of the bones, and of amputation, has been fully discussed in the section of this article relating to compound dislocations; the greater part of which refers to compound dislocations of the ancle.] Dislocations op the Astragalus. A luxation of the astragalus, either simple or complicated with a laceration of the integuments, as Mr. Hey has remarked, is an accident which does not often occur. Above, the astragalus is articulated with the tibia and fibula, to which it is united by powerful ligaments; below it is united, by means of a capsular and strong inter- osseous ligament, to the os calcis; while in front, it is connected to the os naviculare by a capsular and broad internal lateral ligament. Thus situated it is evident that its displacement is not likely to happen with great frequency; yet this observation must be received only as a comparative one; for the cases of dislocation of the astragalus now on record are rather numerous. [The dislocations of the astragalus have of late years received a considerable share of attention. Mr. Turner of Manchester, has published a me- moir, founded on a collection of fifty cases. (See Trans, of Prov. Med, and Surg, Association, 1843.) Another was published by M. Broca in 1852, containing an analysis of as many as 130 cases. (See Mem. de la Sociele de Chir. t. iii. 1853.) The subject has also been investigated by MM. Hancock, Nelaton, Malgaigne, and others. From these data it appears, that dislocations of the astragalus occur in a variety of waj's. They may be divided in the first place into two principal classes; those in which the astragalus is displaced from the os calcis and scaphoid bone, the ancle- joint being unaffected; and those in which it is dislocated not only from these bones, but from the tibia and fibula also. The first has been described as an incomplete, and the second as a complete dislocation; the one has also been called the sub-astragaloid (Broca), and the other the doMe dislocation, which name was first applied to it by Boyer. The latter nomen- clature has been adopted by M. Malgaigne. In the description of both the sub-astragaloid, and the complete or double dislocation, further subdi- vision becomes necessary, according to the direc- tion in which the bone is displaced. Sub-astragaloid dislocations; or dislocations of tlie astragalus from the os calcis and seapJioid bone. These may take place in four different directions, forwards, inwards, outwards, and backwards. They are frequently complete as regards the astragalo- scaphoid, but incomplete as regards the calcaneo- astragaloid articulation; that is, the head of the astragalus is completely removed from the cavity of the scaphoid, but the astragalus still remains partially supported by the os calcis. A partial dis- placement, however, of the head of the astragalus from the scaphoid may occur separately, without any, or with very slight, movement of the as- tragalus on the 08 calcis; and this kind of sub-luxation may be considered as the first stage of the sub-astragaloid dislocation. Cases have been noticed by Boyer, Richerand, Roux, and others. The following instance, recorded by Mr. Adams, of the London Hospital, is a good example of the injury. A heavy bag of rice had fallen on the outside of the patient's ancle, and had driven the head of the astragalus inwards, and slightly upwards from its connection with the navicular bone. The foot presented very slight apparent de- formity, being merely thrust a little outwards, without any eversion of the sole. The head of the astragalus formed an unnatural projection on the inside of the tarsus, and a considerable depres- sion beneath was very apparent. There was no fracture of the fibula. The reduction was easily accomplished. The knee being flexed upon the thigh, the foot was forcibly drawn inwards, while the head of the astragalus was pushed downwards and outwards, and it passed at once into its natural position. A.leg splint, with a foot-piece, was placed outside the limb, and to this the foot was bandaged —a compress being placed over the head of the astragalus. Mr. Adams also mentions a case of dislocation of the head of the astragalus upwards and outwards, the preparation of which is in the museum of the London Hospital. {Lancet, vol. i. 1847, p. 183.) M. Malgaigne thinks the head"of the astragalus may sometimes be completely dislo- cated from the scaphoid without any notable dis- placement upon the os calcis, although of course the calcaneo-astragaloid ligaments must be wholly or partially torn.] P P