Pouieau, CEuvres Posthumes, t. i.) Two remark- 7G4 apex. But, in tongue-tied children, by looking upon one side, we may see the fra3num extending from the back part to the very point, so that the whole length of the tongue is tied down, and un- naturally confined. The plan of cure is to divide as much of the ■ frsenum as seems proper for setting the tongue at liberty. The surgeon presses up the tongue against the palate with his left thumb and fore-fiiiger. The incision should be directed downwards, away from the tongue, and not be carried upward or backward, lest the raninal veins or arteries be cut • an accident that has been known to prove fatal' For the same reason, the scissors used for this operation should be blunt-pointed. If the fore- finger and thumb prevent the parts from being seen, the tongue must be pressed up with a spatula, or a director, that has a slit in which the frajnum may be placed, as long ago preferred by J. L. Petit. (See M. Velpeau, in Nouv. Eltim. de Med op. t. ii. p. 67, 8vo. Paris, 1832; and M. Mal- gaigne, Mamtel de Med. Opir. p. 465, ed. 2. 12mo Paris, 1837.) I think the following piece of advice, ofl'ered by a modern author, may be of service to prac- titioners who ever find it necessary to divide the frasnum lingucc: "It is not the relations of the trunk of the lingual artery alone, which the student ought to make himself acquainted with. He will do well to study the position of the arteria ranina in respect to the frcenum linguas. This information will teach him the impropriety of pointing the scissors upward and backward when snipping the fra;num ; an operation, by the b}^, oftener performed than needed. He will learn that the ranular artery lies just above the attach- ment of the frasnum ; so that, if he would avoid it he must turn the points of the scissors rather down- ward ; if he do not, the artery will probably suf- fer." {A. Burns, Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, p. 239.) When an infant has the power of sucking, this proceeding should never be resorted to, even though the frajnura may have the appearance of being too short, or extending too far forwards. {Fab. Hddanus, centur. iii. obs. 28. Petit, Mai Chir. t. iii. p. 265. edit. 1774.) Although the operation of dividing the frasnum liugUEB is, for the most part, done without any bad consequences, surgeons should remember well that It 18 liable to dangers, especially when performed either unnecessarily or unskilfully. Besides the fatal events which have occasionally resulted from wounding the raninal arteries, the records of surgery furnish us with proofs that the mere bleeding from the raninal veins, and the small vessels of the tranum, may continue so long in consequence of the infant's incessantly sucking, as to produce death. In such cases the child swallows the blood as last as it issues from the vessels, so that the cause of death may even escape observation. But It the body be opened, the stomach and intestines wm be found to contain large quantities of blood. 7„ n- ^"""'^ d'Operations de Chirurqie, P- 202,''&r)''"'°''" t. iii' "ocl"."';i" sometimes following an uii- " >. c n„; "-''""^'"'^ '"^'i^'"" of tl'o f'-"^- «^ed, '.^dln " '"n" ^'^^^ lies ' """^ i-'iusos eullucalion. 'I'l FRAGILITAS OSSIUM. observations of Petit on this subject are highly interesting. fSee Op. cit. t. iii. p. 267, &c.) ^ Lastly, it should be known that an infant's in- ability to move Its tongue, or suck, is not always owing to a malformation of the fra-num. Some- imes the tongue is applied and glued, as it were, to the roof of the mouth, by a kind of mucous sub- whT/hrh "I " ^''""''1 be separated with the handle of a spatula. By this means infants have been saved which were unable to suck during several days, and were in imminent danger of perishing from want of nourishment. (See Mem. de PAcad. de Chir. t. iii. p 16 ed. 4to.J ^' t li'/oe.i'^if'yn^''^''' T""^ ^^''"^I'e^ Chir. I. 111. p. 2bU, iic. Dioms, Cours d'Oni^ratinns 70 riA monstr. SaOatier, Mdd'ecine Op.T ,i p 132 &c" Lassus, Patholoffie Chir. t. ii. I 454 An « n k1" t ^^'J'"'"'' Nouv. mm. de M^d. Op. t. deSild 0^„^4fi!-?f'- i-P-ii"'0«'ffne, Mauue ue mea. up. p. 464. 12mo. ed. 2. Paris, 1837. FRAGILITAS OSSIUM. A morbid brit- tleiiess of the bones. Although it may take place at different periods of life, it is remarked to be more common in childhood and in persons of advanced age. (See B. Bell, On Diseases of the Bones, p. 74.) Boyer imputes mollities ossium to a deficiency of hme in their structure ; fragititas ossium to a defi- ciency ot the soft matter naturally entering into their texture. This is not the view usually adopted. One modern writer considers preternatural brittle- ness and flexibleness of the bones as the results of different degrees of the same cause. One degree produces brittleness; a greater degree flexibleness, wi h greater brittleness; the most aff!?ravated form nio hties ossium. (See Ma,/o's Human Pathology, P- ly.; ihe diseases termed rickets and mollities, however, as we shall find by a reference to those articles, are at all events combined with other pathological changes and circumstances. Boyer states that a certain degree of fragilitas ossium ne- cessarily occurs in old age, because the proportion 0 iime in the bones naturally increases as we grow old, while that of the organised part diminislies. Hence the bones of old persons more easily break than those of young subjects, and are longer in uniting again. In old age the cortex of the bones IS thinner, and both in it and the cancelli the quantity of phosphate of lime diminished. This is one cause of the frequency of fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone in elderly persons. (See Mayo, op. cit. p. ] 7.) As Mr. Wilson observes, however, they never are found so friable and fragile as to crumble like a calcined bone, but, on the contrary, they contain a large quantity of oil; a fact parti- cularly noticed by Snillaiit (see Hist, de la Societc de Mid. 1776, p. 316); and when dried after death, they are so greasy as to be unfit to be pre- served as preparations. Their organised vascular part is diminished, but their oily animal matter is increased. ( Wilson, On the Skeleton and Diseases 0/ Bones, p. 258.) In persons who have been long afilictcd with cancerous diseases, the bones sometimes become as brittle as if they had been calcined. Saviard and Louis relate cases of this description. (Obs. Chir. ct Joiirn. dcs Savans, 1691. Ohs. et Pcmarqiics sur l,-s Kfrls dii Virus Cancerai.v. Paris, 1750.