i soimd, but a sudden pain in left thigh, which is ccdeuiatous. Sept. 15th. Immense abscess opened in tliigh. 'Jjlh. Slonghing. October 2nd. Gangrene of lieel ; death. Treatment. At first, bleeding to 34 oz., and purging ; then incisions, bark, and opium. Case 3. IGth August, 1824, a shipwright, a;t. 45, • suftered amputation of last joint of left fore finger, from an accident. 20th. Pain in hand and headaclie. . 21st. Slump easi/a7tdlooki7ig inactive. 24th. Great : prostration, anxiety, and nausea. 25tii. Death. Post- nioHem. Sixteen oz. serumin chest; right lung adhe- rent; left gangrenous; intestines inflamed; abscess round right kidney. Trealmenl. Bleeding to 24 oz. on the 20th, and a cruel quantity of calomel and cathartics afterwards. Case 4. A joiner tore the nail of his finger on 10th August, 1824. On the 18th finger healthily granulating ; but a sudden attack of rigors and fever. 20th. Increased fever and headache; hand and arm mucli inflamed. 25th. Whole hand and arm erysipelatous and oedematous; great exhaus- tion; an incision into the back of the hand; areolar tissue found infected with pus ; from this, recovery is dated. Treatment. Bleeding to 34 oz.; leeches, ■ calomel, and cathartics, and the incision. Case 5. A sawyer, on 30th August, tore off nail of left great toe. Sept. 1st. Pain and shiver- ing. 2nd. Great fever. 4th. Erysipelas of whole limb. 9th. Sphacelus over external ankle ; inci- sions gave vent to sloughs like wash leather. Death on 14th. Treatment. Twenty-four leeches to the foot; three bleedings altogether to 60 oz.; calomel and cathartics, and incisions. Case 6. A shipwrigiit, on 7th, 8th, and 9th Sept. received sundrji- small abrasions of left shin. 13th. Shivering; pains in inguinal glands ; red lines. 15th. Fever, pain, and swelling of thigh increased. 18th. Pain in right hypochondrium. 19th. Death. Post-mortem. Inflammation and seropurulent effusion into abdomen. Treatment. Bleedings tn 64 oz.; leeches and purges. Case 7. A siiipwright wounded his chin with a nail on 18th Sept. On 17th. Shivering and head- ache. 18th. Neck much swollen. 22nd. Ery- sipelas advancing over face and head. 25th. Large vesicles. 26th. Amendment began; and convale- scence complete in eleven weeks. Treatment. >^eeches, cathartics, poultices, and an incision. Case 8. A shipwright jammed three lingers on 17th Sept. 1824. 19th. Shivering. 20tl). Pain of hand; and an isolated red blush on upper arm. 24th. Whole arm enormously swelled and red- dened. 25th. Death. Treatment. Bleeding to 40 oz.: repeated leechings; purgatives. Case 9. Dr. Bell, on the 14th September, 1824, scratched the last phalanx of right fore-finger at the post-mortem of case G. 19th.lligors and fever; smart- ing of scratch, but no otlier local symptoms. 21st. Restlessness, fever, nausea ; great pain and tender- ness of right shoulder, none in finger. 22nd. Very prostrate ; excruciating pain in back ; indistinct vision. 2;jrd, No pain; tenderness on pectoral muscle when pressed ; no redness ; finger neither inflained nor swollen. 24th. Death, Treatment. Bleeding twice to 46 oz. ; calomel, antimony, piu-gatives. Case 10, A shipwright, on 13th September, abraded shin over right inner ankle. 18th. Super- ficial sloughing and some pain. Oct. 1st. Doing well; but in the evening great pain ; red lines to groin ; tender glands, shivering and headache. Oct, ERYSIPELAS, C33 2nd. Severe headache, 3rd. Tenderness of riyht hypochondrium ; leg easy. 4th. Delirium ; death. Post-mortem. Omentum, ileum, and ca;cura, and right lobe of liver inflamed ; seropurnlenteifusion. An in- cision into the affected leg from the ulcer towards the calf revealed no traces of itiflamniation in the cellular substance. Treatment. Bleeding to 76 oz. ; sixty leeches ; several blisters to head and abdomen ; calomel, opium, and cathartics. Case 11, A labourer, on 9th Oct., grazed the left shin. Nov. 1st. Wound inflamed ; pain and fever, 3rd. Erysipelas and inflammation of lympha- tics of left leg. 4th. Great tension and agonising pain. Recovery, Treatment. An incision, five inches long, down to the fascia, between the tibia and tendo Achillis. Case 12. A sawyer, on 2nd August, wounded, his right great toe. 8th. Pain. 9th. Swelling and inflammation. 10th. Pain. 13th. Gangrene, ISth. Death. Treatment. Bleeding and antiphlogistics. Case 13. A man sulYered a coinpouud fracture of right great toe on August 18th, 1824. On the 9th ■ September he resumed his duties in the dockyard, to all appearance well. Sept. 23rd. " Fever arose ; a red patch appeared on the outside of his riglit calf, another on his right thigh, a third on his left arm." Vitiated secretions, delirium, and stupor followed ; extensive gangrene of right leg and foot; matter in the cellular membrane which sur- rounded the extensors of the injured toe. Treatment. Bleeding and antiphlogistics. Case 14. A man bruised his thumb and abraded the shin of his left leg, on 27th August, 1824. He continued at work. On the 8th September, ''idio- pathic congestive fever " arose, and in two days death followed. Case 15. A shipwright wounded his hand with glass on 14th September. On the 19th he was attacked with fever, and acute pain in the right armpit and side, with a blush of redness. Death on the 24th, preceded by mortification. Treatment. Bleeding to 46 oz. We have selected this unique collection of cases, in order to show the entire accordance of this " Ply- mouth Dockyard Disease," mutatis mutandis, with an epidemic of puerperal fever. In a dockyard, accidental wounds are of daily occurrence. During the six months from 24th June to 31st December, 1824, 250 men received serious hurts ; and of these, during six weeks of that time, fifteen were seized with the disease under consideration, and twelve died. Such an occurrence had been unknown be- fore. Of the cause it is impossible to speak with precision—whether a peculiar state of atmosphere; or whether contagion were imbibed at some com- mon source, or whether it were carried, as is not improbable, by the medical attendants. Referring to the section on catises for some fur- ther remarks on this head, lot us come to the symp- toms and local changes. Difl'used cellular inflammation may be set up at the seat of a local injurj', and may spread continu- ousl}', involving tlic neighbouring parts. In this case, the chief symptoms are fever with great swelling and tension ; most acute pain, without any, or with but little, of the surface redness of erj-s'i- pelas. In another set of cases, thedilTuscd inflammation is set up at a distance from the part originally in- flamed or injured,and without any direct continuity. This happens when, as we believe, the whole mass