DISLOCATION. 501 powerful enough, and the great muscular strength of the patient, which counteracts all efforts to re- place the bone. " The means to be employed for the reduction of dislocations (says Sir Astley Cooper) are both constitutional and mechanical. It is generally wrong to employ force only, as it becomes neces- sary to use it in such a degree as to occasion violence and injury ; and it will be shown in the sequel, that the most powerful meclianical means fail, when unaided by constitutional remedies. The power of the muscles, in the first instance, is to be duly appreciated, as this forms the principal cause of resistance. The constitutional means to be employed for the purpose of reduction are those which produce a tendency to syncope, and this ne- cessary state may be best induced by one or other of the following means, viz. by bleeding, warm bath, and nausea. Of these remedies, I consider bleeding tlie most powerful: and that the effect may be produced as quickly as possible, the blood should be drawn from a large orifice, and the patient kept in the erect position ; for, by this mode of depletion, syncope is produced, before so large a quantity of blood as might injure the pa- tient is lost. However, the activity of this prac- tice must be regulated by the constitution of the person ; for as the accident happens to all the varieties of constitution, it must not be laid down as a general rule ; but when the patient is young, athletic, and muscular, the quantity removed should be considerable, and the method of taking it away that which I have described. " Secondly, in those cases where the warm bath may be thought preferable, or where it may be considered improper to carry bleeding any farther, the bath should be employed at the temperature of 100° or 110°; and as the object is the same as in the application of the last remedy, the person should be kept in the bath at the same heat till the fainting effect is produced, when he should be im- mediately I'laced in a chair, wrapped in a blanket, and the mechanical means employed. " Of late years, I have practised a third mode of lowering the action of the muscles, by exhibiting nauseating doses of tartarised antimony; but as its action is uncertain, frequently producing vomiting, which is unnecessary, I rather recommend its ap- plication, merely to keep up the state of syncope, already produced by the two preceding means, which its nauseating effects will most readily do, and so powerfully overcome the tone of the muscles, that dislocations may be reduced with much less elfort, and at a much more distant period from the accident than can be effected in any other way." (Sir A. Cooper on Dislocatiotts, c^'c. p. 29, 30. Also Sunjical Essays, part i. p. 22.) In cases of unusual difficulty, the use of antimonium tartariz. together with the warm bath and bleeding, seems rational and judicious : but, except incases of that description, I should prefer long continued, unre- mitting, not too violent, extension, which will at last overcome the muscles of the most athletic man. Sometimes the resistance made to reduction by mus- cles acting in obedience to the will, may be eluded by the patient's attention being suddenly taken from the injured part, at which moment the action of those muscles is suspeudi'd, and a very little elfort on the part of the siu'geou will reduce the bone. A case, illustrating this circumstance, is recorded by Sir A. Cooper. (Surr/ical Essa>/s, part i. p. 25 ; and Treatise, ^o. p. 34.) This principle was never neglected by Dupuytren, and it was partly by availing himself of it that he succeeded even with- out the pulley in reducing not less than thirty-three dislocations of the shoulder and hip, which had continued for periods varying from a fortnight to more than three months. (See Dupu\jtren, Chir. Clin. t. i. p. 126. Also, M. Marct\ in R&perloire General d'Anat. ct de Physiologie Pathol. \er. Trimestre, 1829. [Since the introduction of anaesthetics, the above expedients for lessening the muscular resistance have been almost entirely superseded. We have in chloroform an agent, which, besides possessing the advantage of inducing insensibility to the pain necessarily occasioned by the attempts at reduction, causes a more complete relaxation of the muscles than can be obtained in any other v/ay. In all dislocations, therefore, where any considerable force is likely to be required, chloroform should be ad- ministered, and persisted in until the muscles are in a perfectly passive and flaccid condition, before the extension is commenced.] Sir Astley Cooper believes, that much mischief is produced by attempts to reduce dislocations of long standing in very muscular persons. He has seen great contusion of the integuments, laceration, and bruises of the muscles, and stretching of the nerves, leading to an insensibility and paralysis of the hand, follow an abortive attempt to reduce a dislocation of the shoulder. He is of opinion, that three months for the shoulder, and eight weeks for the hip, may be set down as the period from the accident, when it would be imprudent to make the attempt, except in persons of very relaxed fibre, or advanced age, (On Dislocations, 4'c. p. 35.) Mr. Twining succeeded, however, in reducing a dislocation of the humerus in a robust healthy sailor, ixhich had continued fifteen weeks. Gra- dually increased extension with the pulleys was maintained for fifty minutes, and, during that time nausea and faintness were induced by a large dose of tartar emetic, and the abstraction of lb. ij. of blood. (See Trans, of Med. and Phys. Sac. of Calcutta, vol. iv. art. 8, 1829.) A case is mentioned by Mr. Lawrence, in which he succeeded in reducing the upper ends of the radius and ulna, when they had been displaced twenty-six days ; one to the outside of the external condyle of the humerus, the other directly backward, with fracture of the coronoid process. (See Lancet for 1830, 31, p. 445.) Mr. Crosse refers to some dislocations of the radius and ulna backwards, which had been reduced at sixty, three and even seventy days ; but, in one of these cases, the olecranon was fractured in the attempt, owing to the resistance of the triceps. In five weeks, liowever, the patient regained the use of the limb. (See Prov. Med. and Surg. Trans. vol. V.) In several instances, Desault succeeded" in reducing dislocations of thirty or thirty-five days' standing, and even occasionally after an interval of two months and a half, or three months. {G^Mvres Chir. da Desault, par Bichat, t. i.) The practice of Desault then was encouraging, in relation to the reduction of old dislocations. But M. Flaubert, surgeon to the Hotel Dieu at Rouen, publislied five cases of an opposite ten- dency ; for his attempts at reduction of the shoulder after eleven and fifteen days, five weeks, and seven weeks, and at reduction of the elbow joint after K K 3