DISLOCATION. 546 duce this dislocation of the radius, and the treat- ment which it demands, are the same which are required for the luxation of both bones; and there is no difficulty in the operation, the hand being extended whilst the fore arm is fixed." (Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocalions, edited by B. Cooper, p. 489, 1842.] [^Congenital dislocation of ilie wrist.—Mr. R. W. Smith has carefully described the appearances observed in the dissection of two cases of congenital dislocation of the wrist joint. In one of these (a female lunatic, set. 26) both joints were dis- located, hut in opposite directions; the right limb exhibiting a displacement of the carpus forwards, the left, backwards. The deformity in the right limb presented a remarkable similarity to that observed in M. Cruveilhier's case, which has been already quoted at length; and Mr. Smith believes that this latter was also an instance of congenital luxation. {On Fractures and Dislocations, p. 238.)] Dislocations of thk Carpus. A simple dislocation of the carpal bones from each other seems almost impossible. The os mag- num, however, is sometimes partially luxated from the deep cavity formed for it in the os scaphoides and OS lunare. This displacement is produced by too great a flexion of the bones of the first row on those of the second, and the os magnum forms a tumour on the back of the hand. {C/iopari, Bayer, Richerand.) Chopart once met with a partial luxation of the os magnum. Boyer had seen several examples of the accident, which, he saj's, is more common in women than men ; a circumstance which he imputes to the ligaments being looser in females, and to the bones of the carpus in them having naturally a greater degree of motion. The tumor increases, when the hand is bent, and diminishes, when it is extended. The case does not produce any serious inconvenience. If the wrist be extended, and pressure be made on the head of the os magnum, the reduction is easily accomplished ; though a renewal of the displace- ment cannot be prevented, unless the extension and compression be kept up by means of a suitable apparatus, during the whole time requisite for the healing of the torn ligaments. As the inconveni- ences of the accident are slight, few patients will submit to any tedious, irksome treatment ; and sometimes the surgeon is never consulted, till it is too late to think of replacing the bone. Sir Astley Cooper has seen two cases of displace- ment of the OS magnum in females ; the accidents produced a weakness of the hand, and arose from relaxation of the ligaments. One example is also given of a dislocation of the os scaphoides, whicii was thrown backward upon the carpus, with the lower portion of the broken radius. (^Oii Disloca- tions, p. 514, 515.) [In 1830 a policeman applied at Guy's Hospital, in consequence of an injury his wrist had sustained from a full on the hand, which was bent under him till the palmar aspect of the fingers came in contact with the fore-arm. On the back of the wrist was a round hard tumor, ratlier larger than a marble, opposite to and above the base of the meta- carpal bone of the middle finder. Reduction was effected by making extension from the middle and forefingers only, while pressure was kept up on the 03 magnum, which suddenly slipped into its place without any difficulty, and the tumor disappeared. On flexing the hand the displacement returned, and splints and compresses were necessary to main- tain the reduction. (For further details see Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations, Bransly Cooper''s edition, p. 603.) A case was seen by Mr. Erichsen, at University College Hospital, in which the semi-lunar bone was believed to be dislocated. The patient had fallen from a height, doubling his right hand under him. A small hard tumor was felt, projecting on the dorsal aspect of the wrist, which disappeared on extending the hand and employing firm pressure, but started up again as soon as the wrist was forcibly flexed. It was evident that this bone belonged to the first row of the carpus arti- lating with the radius, and from its size, position, and shape, which could be pretty distinctly made out through the integuments ; there could be little doubt that it was the semi-lunar bone. {Science and Art of Surgery, p. 234.) Mr. Fergusson speaks of one example, in which the pisiform bone was detached from its lower connections by the action of the flexor carpi ulnaris. {Pract. Surg. p. 237, ed. 3.) M. Maisonneuve met with a case in which the second row of carpal bones was dislocated back- ward upon the first. The dislocation was com- plicated with fracture of the scaphoid bone, a small piece of which remained united to the trapezium, and also of the cuneirorm, part of which, together with the pisiform, had followed the unciform bone. The patient fell from a height of 40 feet, and died of the injuries which he received. (See Mal- gaigne, Traite des Fract. S,-c. t. ii. p. 719.)] Compound dislocations of the carpal bones generally arise from gunshot violence, or other great mechanical injury. In these cases, it is sometimes necessary to take away the displaced bones altogether ; and, too frequently, the accident is complicated with so much additional mischief as to require amputation. Dislocations of the Metacarpus. Dislocation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. — The first metacarpal bone, which is articulated with the OS trapezium, and admits of the move- ments of flexion, extension, abduction and adduc- tion, is occasionally luxated ; but the accident is uncommon. Although, from the nature of the joint, between the first metacarpal bone and the trapezium, one might infer, that a dislocation is possible in four directions, some of these varieties must be very rare. The dislocation backwards is produced bj' the application of external force to the back of the metacarpal bone, which is violently bent, the case usually arising from a fall on the outer edge of the hand. The capsular ligament is lacerated, the extensor tendons of the thumb are pushed up, and the head of the bone slips behind the trapezium. In the cases, which Sir Astley Cooper has seen, the metacarpal bone was thrown inwards, between the trapezium and the root of the metacarpal bone of the fore-finger, so as to form a protuberance towards the palm ; the thumb was extended backwards, and it could not be brought towards the little finger. Considerable pain and swelling followed the acci- dent. In the reduction. Sir Astley Cooper deems it best to make extension with the thumb inclined