viscera, at the upper orifice of the pelvis." This view led Dr. Plarrisoii to consider cutting ii small opening through the rectum, into this cul-do-sac, tlie best and safest plan for the dis- charge of the irritating fluid. Here a new- cavity has been formed, coated internally like an abscess ; and the opening is not to be regarded as extending into the general cavity of tiie peritoneum. The operation might be done with a trocar, or a long curved bistoury, with a sheath, and a cutting edge only on its extremity. The patient being in the recumbent posture, with his knees drawn up and somewhat separated, the finger of the left hand might be passed up the rectum, as far as possible, and pressed against its fore part. The catheter in the bladder might also assist inguidino- the finger to the cul-de-sac behind that organ. The canula of a long curved trocar might next be passed along the finger, and, when its extremity had been placed against the fore part of the rectum exactly in the median line, the stilette might be pushed through it, and the peritoneum opened. Dr. Harrison conceived that the quantity of effused fluid would protect the small intestines from reach of the instrument; and he says, that in the cases which he has examined, he did not find any of their convolutions in the pelvis. Supposing this operation were ever attempted, ought the canula to be left in the part.» or ought it to be withdrawn, and tiie catheter trusted to for tiie prompt discharge of the urine afterwards .» The latter method is preferred by Dr. Harrison. [Dr. Harrison was unaware of any instance of rupture of the bladder having had a favourable termination. Two cases of recovery, however, have subsequently been placed on record. The first, related by Mr. Chaldecott, was that of a man aged fifty, who, running across a street on a dark night, for the purpose of emptying his bladder, struck his hypogastric region against a post. He immediately fell down, and with great difficulty reached his home, about a hundred yards distant. Mr. Chaldecott saw him about half an hour after- wards. He was faint, an 1 suffering severe pain over the abdomen, with desire, but no power, to pass his urine. A full-sized catheter was passed, but no urine escaped. He was seen eighteen hours after the accident by Mr. Aston Key, who intro- duced an instrument, and drew off about an ounce of bloody urine. By this time symptoms of peri- tonitis were present in an alarming degree. Tiiey were combated, however, successfully by leeches, hot fomentations, and opiates ; the bladder re- gained the power of retaining its contents, for tlie catheter on eacli introduction brouglit away clear unne. Six d.iys after the accident, he made an attempt to pass water by his own efforts, when lie felt aometbing give way, and a burning pain all over his stomach and bowels, as if boiling water had been poured over them. The same faintness and distress occurred as when the accident first happened, and were followed in like manner by peritonitis. The symptoms, however, again sub- sided under a repetition of the treatment, and he perfectly recovered. A curious circumstance in this case was the occurrence of a sharp attack of gout three days after the accident, altlioiigh he had never before suffered from that complaint. This attack had nearly disappeared when the second effusion took pl.ace, but again became severe after its occurrence, {^ce Lcincel, Oct. IMG, p.,'J7r, ) S17 BLADDER. The second case is reported by Mr. Syme. A boy having attempted to leap over a railing, fell forwards, and violently struck his abdomen against a post. He immediately complained of great pain, and the abdomen became distended. A catheter introduced allowed the passage of about four ounces of bloody urine. There were all the symp- toms of ruptured bladder, with great collapse. Leeches and fomentations were applied, and an opiate prescribed. For the next two days the distension of the abdomen increased, the catheter continued to draw off bloody urine. On the third day there was obscure fluctuation below the um- bilicus, and Mr. Syme made an incision into the linea alba. A stream of fluid flowed out whicli was distinctly urinous. Two days afterwards the incision was enlarged, and a slough of cellular tissue escaped, coated with deposit from the urine. Mr. Syme then passed his finger into the wound, and felt a laceration of the bladder, where it was uncovered by peritoneum. This patient perfectly- recovered. {Lancet, March, 1848, p. 289.) In one of these cases it will be remarked, the urine was effused into the peritoneal cavity ; in the other it was infiltrated into the cellular tissue. In a case of encysted urinous infiltration, M. Denonvilliers was fortunate enough to cause the sound to penetrate into the accidental pouch, and succeeded in curing his patient. {Houtl, op. cit. p. 76, quoted by Ne'laton.)] (See Boyer, Maladies Cliir. t. ix. p. 61 ; C. Montague, in Med. Comnumications, vol. ii. p. 284; Cusack, in Duh. Hospital RepoHs, vol.. ii p. 312| Dupuytren, Archives Gin. June, 1834, p. 294- Johnstone, in Mem. of Med. Soc. of Lond, vol. uu p. 543 ; and, particularly, Dr. Harri- son s Cases and Ohs. in Dubl. Journal of Med. Science, vol. ix. p. 349 ; Coulson, On the Dis- eases of the Bladder, London, 1851 ; Prescott Heivdt, in Transac. of Pathol. Society ; Houi-l, Des Plaies el des Ruptures de la Vessie. These de dmcours pour l'Ayr(galion,-PsiT\s, 1857 ; Nelaton Eltm. de Pathol. Chir. t. v. Paris, 1858.) ' [Tumors op tub Bladdeh.] [Tumors, both of an innocent and mali-rnant nature, are occasionally developed from the walls of the bladder. Of the former class are poly- poid tumors, composed of fibro-cellular tissue covered by o prolongation of the mucous membrane' and attached by an elongated pedicle. Others' analogous in structure, and developed in the sub- mucous tissue, have a broader basis of attachment and form rounded or fungiform tumors, projectinir into the interior of the bladder. In the museum of the College of Surgeons are several specimens of tumors of the bladder, most of them having n'lrr.iw necks, and attached in the neighbourhood of the urethral orifice. (Soc case recorded by Mr Savorv Medical Tillies, .July 31, 1852, p. lOG ) '' Malignant tumors are more frequent than non- malignant tumors of the bladder. Thev m-iv bo of the medullary or scirrhus kind. Tiie former aio tlio more common, and form distinct tumors pro umient in the cavity, while the latter, on the am- trary, are usually dilfusely infiltrated in the vesic-U parietcs. Scirrhus cancer seldom affects the bladder linmarily, but is communicated to it secondarilv m cases of scirrhus of the rectum in tlie male or of the uterus in the female. ' The diagnosis of tumors in the bladder is