! EMPYEMA. 621 as water. (See Cydop. of Pracl. Med. art. Em pi/ema.) Acute and chronic abscesses not iinfrequently form in tlie coUiilar tissue, between the plinira and the ribs, and intercostal muscles. A swelling oc- curs between two of those bones; the skin does not undergo any change of colour; a fluctuation is dis- tinguishable, and sometimes extensive oedema. With respect to abscesses formed in the cellular tissue, connecting the pleura costalis to the inter- costal muscles, they rarely burst into the chest, because the pleura is in such case considerably thickened. However, in order to keep them from spreading extensively, as well as to obviate any possibility of their breaking inwards, the best rule is to make an early, and, if possible, a depending opening into them. The motions of respiration then both promote the exit of the matter, as well as the contraction of the cavity in which it was lodged ; and the disease, if unattended with caries, generally terminates favourably. It often happens, however, that the abscess is caused by a carious rib, and then the cure is more tedious and difficult. A modern writer, indeed, informs us that, when the inside of the rib is ex- tensively carious, or when the caries is near the junction of the bone to the spine, the fistula is incurable. {Lassus, Patlioloyie Chir. t. i. p. 128, edit. 180.0.) On the other hand, another surgeon of vast experience recommends us to endeavour to separate the diseased bone, either by cutting it away or employing the trepan. (Pelleian, Clinique Chir. t. iii. p. 253.) Were a part of a diseased rib to admit of being sawn away, Mr. Hey's con vex saw would be a more proper instrument for the purpose than a trepan. An abscess of the preceding kind may be so situated, and attended with such a pulsation, as greatly to resemble an aneurism of the origin of the aorta. An interesting case of this description is detailed by Pelletan {Cliitiyue Chir. t. iii. p. 2.H), and anotlier was seen by Boyer. (Mai. C/iir. t. vii. p. 333.) When the surface of the lungs, and that of the pleura costalis have become adherent to each other, around the abscess, so as to constitute what is termed encysted empyema, the pus, disposed by a law of nature to make its way to the surfjce of the body, generally occasions ulceration of the inter- costal muscles, and collects on the outside of them. An abscess of this kind comes on with a deep- seated pain in the part affected ; an oedematous swelling, which retains the impression of the finger; and a fluctuation, which is at first not very dis- tinct, but, from day to day, becomes more and more palpable, and, at length, leads the surgeon to make an opening. If this be not done when the fluctuation becomes perceptibl..', the abscess may possibly insinuate itself into the cavity of tlic pleura, in consequence of the adhesion being in part destroyed by ulceration. Sabatier affirms that the case may take this course, even when the abscess has been punctured, and while a free external opening exists ; and this experienced surgeon has adduced a fact in confirma- tion of such an occ;irrcnce. (See Mid. OpinUoire, I tjm. ii. p. 240.) In a few instances, the surface of the lung ul- cerates, and the matter is voided from the trachea. If inflammation occurs in the anterior mediastinum, ' and ends in suppuration, the abscess may possibly burst into neither of the cavities of the chest, but make its way outwards, after rendering the sternum carious, as happened in the example recorded by Van Swieteu. {Comment on Buerliaave's S9oth Aphorism.) But though collections of matter in the anterior mediastinum are influenced by the general law, in accordance with which abscesses tend to the sur- face of the body, and though it be true that they rarely burst into the cavity of the pleura, the con- trary may happen, as is proved by the 9 th case in La Martiniere's memoir, on the operation of tre- panning the sternum. Here the event was the more unexpected, as there was already an external opening in the abscess. External injuries, such as the perforation of the sternum with a sword ( Vandenviel, Obs. 29, Cent. 1), a contusion, a fracture, or a caries of this bone, may give rise to an abscess in the anterior medi- astinum. Galen has recorded a memorable example, where the abscess was the consequence of a wound of the fore part of the chest. After the injiyy, which was in the region of the sternum, seemed quite well, an abscess formed in the same situation, and being opened, healed up. The part, however, soon inflamed, and suppurated again. The abscess could not now be cured. A consultation was held, at which Galen attended. As the sternum was obviously carious, and the pulsation of the heart was visible, every one was afraid of undertaking the treatment of the case, since it was conceived that it would be necessary to open the thorax itself. Galen, however, engaged to manage the treatment without making any such opening, and he expressed his opinion that he should be able to effect a cure. After the removal of a portion of the bone, the heart was quite exposed (as is alleged), bv reason of the pericardium having been destroyed by the previous disease. The patient experienced a speedy recovery. J. L. Petit met with an abscess in the anterior mediastmum, in consequence of a gun-shot wound in the situation of the sternum. The injury had been merely dressed with some digestive applica- tion ; no dilatation, nor any particular examination of the wound had been made. The patient, being to all appearance quite well, joined his regimen't .•igain, but was soon taken ill with irregular shiver- ings, and other febrile symptoms. Petit probed the wound, and found the bone affected. As there was a difficulty of breathing, he suspected an ab- scess either in the diploe or behind the sternum and, consequently, he proposed laying the bone bare, and applying a trepan. The operation af- forded an outlet for some saiiious matter and as soon as the inner part of the sternum liad been perforated, a quantity of puj was discharged. The patient was relieved, and afterwards recovered {Petit, Mai. Chir. t. i. p. 80.) Another instance, in which an abscess behind the sternum was cured by making a perforation in that bone, opposite the lower part of the cavity in which the matter had collected, is recorded by Do la Martiiiiere. {Man. de I'Acad, de Chir. t". xii edit. 12nio.) When, in consequence of inflammation, an ab- scess forms deeply in the substance of the lungs the pus more easily makes its way into the air-cells' and tends towards tlie bronchi than towards the surface of the lungs. In this case the patient spits up purulent matter. When the opening, bv wh ch