132 AN/ESTHESIA. continue the cliloroform gently and steadily till they subside. The writer has never known the chloroform fail to subdue the convulsions in a very few minutes, and he has never seen them recur after the operation, as the effects of the vapour were subsiding. Chloroform has often been administered to pre- vent the pain of surgical operations at all the periods of pregnancy, and no ill effects have been known to arise from its use in this way. The writer has exhibited it in several cases for the re- moval of large tumors, and other important opera- tions during pregnancy, as well as in tooth drawing and other minor operations. One case of abortion has been related, which occurred in America, after its use; but in that instance it was inhaled very largely, for toothache, without medical advice. It is customary to avoid the menstrual period in fixing the time for any surgical operation which admits of delay, but v/hen it cannot be so arranged, there is no objection to the inhalation of chloroform during menstruation. There is, however, a little more tendency to slight hysterical symptoms dur- ing its inhalation at this period than when the same patients inhale it at other times. Phthisis and bronchitis sometimes cause a little difficulty and delay in the administration of chlo- roform, as the vapour is liable to excite coughing ■when the mucous membrane of the air passages is irritable. The inconvenience is, however, confined to the time of inhalation, and the cough is generally relieved afterwards ; indeed, chloroform has often been inhaled with advantage to relieve the cough in consumption, so that there is no possible objec- tion to its use in cases where it is found requisite that the consumptive patient should undergo a surgical operation. With regard to the employment ot chlorotorm in cases where there is disease of the heart, the surgeon should bear in mind that the question is not strictly between using chloroform and not using it, but between this agent and the pain of the operation. The pulse often increases to more than twice its natural frequency during the per- formance of even trifling operations in the waking state, and the patient often strains and holds his breath till the action of the heart is extremely ir- regular and intermittent, from the impeded passage of blood through the lungs. These effects of pain appear much more likely to arrest the action of the heart, when embarrassed by valvular disease or weakened by fatty degeneration, than does the action of chloroform, when carefully administered and not continued too long. Fatty degeneration of the heart has, indeed, been present m a few ot the deaths from chloroform, but this affection is so common, that it has probably been present in quite as great proportion of the patients who have in- haled chloroform withimpiinity,asin those who died from its effects. The only patient whom the writer has lost whilst inhaling this agent, was, indeed, ;i gentleman of seventy-three, with extreme fatty degeneration of the heart, the symptoms of which were very evident during life ; but it is probable, from the manner in which this patient died, th.it the disease of the heart was the sole cause of the sudden death ; and the writer has not been de- terred from administering chloroform during sur- cical operations in numerous other cases in which the symptoms of fatty degeneration of the heart were present in a very marked degree. Liseases of the brain do not prevent the ad- ministration of chloroform. The writer has given it to several patients who had suffered from a pre- vious attack of apoplexy. In some of these cases the paralysis resulting from the attack still re- mained, but the chloroform was not attended or followed by any ill effects. Chloroform is often of signal service in the cases of insane patients who require a surgical operation, as it enables the sur- geon to perform operations that ho could not ac- complish without its aid. The vapour, however, can sometimes be administered to insane patients only by force, as they cannot always be persuaded to breathe it voluntarily. It was at one time asserted that persons addicted to hard drinking were with difficulty rendered in- sensible by chloroform or sulphuric ether, but the writer has always found thatthese persons were ren- dered unconscious, and even comatose, by the same amount of these agents as other patients ; some- times, however, hard drinkers of spirituous and fermented liquors have a morbid excess of sensi- bility in the nerves of common sensation, and do not iie still under the use of the knife, except when the brain is deeply narcotised and the breathing almost stertorous. . . The only direction which it is usually requisite to give beforehand to the patient who is about to inhale chloroform is, to avoid taking a meal previous to the inhalation. It is not desirable, however, that he should fast beyond his usual hour of takmg food. The best time for an operation under chlo- roform is before the patient's usual breakfast time, when this can be arranged. It answers very well, however, to perfonn the operation about the time when the patient would be ready for another meal, or if the time of the operation fall two or three hours after the usual time of eating, to request him to take only a slender repast at that time, so as merely to prevent the feeling of hunger. These precautions are intended to prevent, as far as pos- sible, the vomiting which not imfrequently follows the use of chloroform, and constitutes an un- pleasantness and inconvenience which it is desir- able to avoid. The patient who is about to inhale chloroform is sometimes in a state of alarm, either about that agent itself, or the operation which calls for its employment. It is desirable to allay the fears of the patient, if possible, before he begins to inhale, as he will then be able to breathe in a more tran- quil and regular manner. In some cases, however, the apprehensions of the patient cannot be removed, and they subside only as he becomes unconscious from the inhalation. It has been said that chloro- form ought not to be administered if the patient is very much afraid, as the fear would make tlic chlo- roform dangerous ; but this is a mistake, the clan- ger, if any,"lies in the fear itself. Patients ha^e Teen known to die of fear alone, before the dis- covery of inhalation for the prevention of P"'" ! two patients died in a sudden manner, ='PP«'^ ^ from fear, just as they were c"™"^"'^^"^. " chloroforni and before they got ^der its influence^ but it is probable that if they had J f chlorofonn had taken effect, they ^y''"W Ja e been as safe as other patients who have '"Y/^^^/ia.Ling and chloroform are each of them cap^bl ^ <^ -mg death, but it seems "npossib e combine to cause danger when the cmo administered with the usual precautions,