ANEURISM. 168 twelfth day, however, a considerable bleeding took place, and it was necessary to take up the vessel anew. Mr. A. C. Hutchison tried this method, as mo- dified by Mr. Travers, in an operation, which he performed for a popliteal aneurism in a sailor, in Nov. 1813. A double ligature was passed under the femoral artery. The ligatures were tied with loops, or slip knots, about a quarter of an inch of the vessel being left undivided between thera. All that now remained of the pulsation in the tu- mor, was a slight undulatory motion. Nearly six hours having elapsed from the application of the ligatures, the wound was carefully opened, and the ligatures untied and removed, without the slightest disturbance of the vessel. In less than half a minute afterwards, the artery became dis- tended with blood, and the pulsations in the tu- mor were as strong as they had been before the operation. Mr. Hutchison then applied two fresh ligatures; hemorrhage afterwards came on; am- putation was performed, and the patient died. (See Praciical Ohs. in Surgery, p. 102, &c.) Now, as Mr. Hutchison chose to apply other ligatures, on finding that the pulsation returned, the above case only proves that the artery is not obliterated in about six hours, and we are left in the dark respecting the grand ques- tion, namely, wliether the vessel would have become obliterated by the effusion of coagulating lymph and the adhesive inflammation, notwith- standing the return of circulation through it. As for the hemorrhage which occurred, I think it might have been expected, considering the dis- turbance and irritation which the artery must have sustained in the proceedings absolutely ne- cessary for the application of not less than four ligatures, and the removal of two of them. Ac- cording to my ideas, only one ligature ought to have been used, and none of the artery detached. We also have no description of the sort of ligatures which were employed; an essential piece of in- formation in forming a judgment of the merits of the preceding method. The application, removal, and reapplication of ligatures are not consistent with the wise principles inculcated by the late Dr. Jones ; and have, in more instances than that re- corded by my friend Mr. Hutchison, brought on ulceration of the artery, and hemorrhage. The limits of this work, prevent me from ent.ernig into the particulars of the interesting experiments, undertaken by Mr. Travers, upon the arteries of animals, for the purpose of ascertaining the earliest period when a ligature might be removed from an artery, without any risk of the vessel not being duly obliterated. A full detail of them may be seen in another work (See Med. Chir. Trans. vol. iv. and vi.) ; and others, in relation to the same question, may likewise be perused in Scarpa's appendix to his great work on aneurism. {Afa- moria sulla Lcgatmxi delle principali Arleric degli Arti, <5'c. fol. Puvia, 1817.) The cases above related, and other considerations, long ago satisfied me, that, flattering as the suggestion of Dr. .lones was, the plan of removing the ligiiture, previously to its natural separation, would never answer in the operation for the cure of aneurism, unless either an obliteration of the arterial tube would follow with reasonable certainty the taking away of the ligature directly after it had been applied and it had divided the inner coats of the vessel; or, at all events, unless tlie ligature could be withdrawn at a determinate period, when either the same oblite- ration would surely ensue, or be already complete ; and all this, with such regularity and infallibility in every case, that the surgeon would have no chance of being called upon to apply another liga- ture, do a second operation, or disturb the artery in any kind of way whatsoever. At length, in the prosecution of this inquiry, in which Mr. Travers evinced a full determination to be guided by no motive but the love of truth, he tried the temporary application of the ligature in a case of brachial aneurism, whicli was operated upon Feb. 14, 1817. The artery was tied an inch and a half above the bend of the elbow with a noose ligature. The pulsation in the radial artery immediately ceased. On the 16th, at four o'clock in the afternoon, the ligature was removed with little difficulty, after having remained on the artery fifty liours. No pulsation ensued in the vessel below the point, where the ligature had beea applied, and the case was completely successful. On the 28th November, 1817, in a case of popliteal aneurism, Mr. Travers tied the femoral artery at one o'clock. On the 29th, at four in the afternoon, the ligature was removed without difficulty, after having been on the vessel twenty- seven hours. At this period no pulsation could be felt in the sac; but, at seven in the evening, a faint pulsation was perceptible. On the 30th, the pulsation, though very distinct, was less strong than before the operation. On the 2nd, 3rd, and 6th of December, the pulsation is described as still continuing. On the latter day, pressure was applied, by means of a roller, from below the knee to the groin, and was continued for a month, during which time the pulsation in the sac evidently became more feeble. On the 10th of January, the tumor became tense, and severely painful, and no pulsation in it coidd be distinguished. The next day, the swelling was more dilTused and less prominent; and on the 12th, as the disease un- derwent no amendment, Mr. Travers tied the artery again, about two inches above the place where the former ligature had been applied. The next day the pain had diminished. The ligature was afterwards allowed to separate of itself; and the case went on favourably to the cure. Accord- ing to Mr. Travers, the first of these cases tends to prove, that the continuance of the liyalnre vpon the artery fur a period of fifty hours, as certainly and completely answers the purpose of its .-qiph- cation as if allowed to remain until thrown oft^ by the natural process. In the second case, Mr. Travers infers from the suspension of pain, and the diminished strength of the pulsation, for a month after the application of the temporary ligature, that a degree of im- pediment to the current of blood in the artery had been produced ; circumstances wli.ch once led him to entertain hopes, that th? cure of the aneurism was gradually accomplishing. At length, however, the increase of the tumor, and the ag- gravation of pain, and inflammatory symptoms, dispelled such expectation, and il was thought ne- cessary to tie the femoral artery a second time, and adopt the common mode. . There are one or two points abou this case on which the author does not particularly dwell can thouKh they require consideration, ere one form a correct judgment of the accuracy of one