582 directed outwards, and the outer edge of the foot is raised. In three cases of compound dislocation in this direction, mentioned by Malgaigne, the head of the astragalus was directed considerably down- wards towards the sole of the foot. An account of the dissection of an old unreduced dislocation of this kind has been given by Dr. J. Neill of Pennsylvania. The position of the foot in this case was diiferent from that usually noticed when the astragalus has passed obliquely forwards and inwards, for it was much inverted, and presented the appearance of a case of talipes varus. A small portion of the posterior border of the astragalus had been detached by fracture from the rest of the bone, and the tibia had been forced between the fragments and widely separated them. The larger fragment was pushed forwards, and its anterior extremity turned inwards ; in this position it was ankylosed to the os calcis. The smaller fragment was pushed backwards and remained movable. The tendon of the flexor longus pol- licis still played in this smaller fragment. The articular surface of the tibia rested upon the upper surface of the os calcis, where there was some attempt at the formation of a joint, (Amer. Journ. of Med. Scietioe, .July, 1849, p. 119.) The reduction should be conducted on much the same principle as in the sub-astragaloid dislocation. Extension should be made upon the foot, and counter-extension upon the leg, the knee being flexed to relax the muscles of the calf of the leg. The surgeon should then make direct pressure upon the prominent astragalus, to push it backwards, if possible, into its place. If necessary the tendo Achillis may be divided, and so also may any other tendons which appear to interfere with the replacement of the bone. Success may fairly be anticipated when the astragalus still remains partially engaged between the tibia and os calcis, but it is less likely to be attained when it has been thrown completely forwards on to the dorsum of the foot, and the tibia has descended behind it on to the OS calcis. In a case of simple dislocation, when reduction cannot be obtained, nothing further should be done. In some cases the bone will adapt itself to its new position, and a tolerably useful foot will ultimately be obtained ; in others, and what is more probable, the integuments will slough over the dislocated bone, and its removal, in whole or in part, will become necessary. In a case of compoMul dislocation, the astragalus should, as a general rule, be replaced if possible, and the wound closed ; if, however, this cannot be accom- plished, it will be better to dissect away the bone at once, rather than leave it protruding through the wound. There may be cases also in which, though the bone can be reduced, it has been so much separated from its attachments that it would be useless to return it; and if this is sometimes the case, as M. Malgaigne thinks, in the sub- astragaloid dislocation, ciforliori it is so when the bone has been separated from all its articular attachments. In those cases of compound dislocation in which th^re is a fracture separating the head and neck from the body of the astragalus, and the body alone IS dislocated, it seems especially advisable to remove it; it is isolated almost completely from Us sources of vascular supply, and its necrosis is nearly certain to take place if it bo allowed to remain. On several occasions where it has been DISLOCATION. returned its subsequent removal has become ne- cessary, and the sufferings of the patient have beei, much increased, and the treatment prolonced i;i consequence. ° In the museum of St. Mary's Hospital is a wa- S°Tr ^""^y astragalus, removed by Di" K. Hall of Torquay. The case was one of compound dislocation, and this portion of the bone could b. telt loose through a wound on the dorsum of th. foot. The head and neck of the bone were leii in their natural position. The case did remark ably well, and the patient was able to walk almost as well as if no accident had happened.] 2. [Double or complete dislocation of the astraqalua inwards.~M.. Malgaigne refers to sixteen examples ot this accident ; of which six were simple, and the remaining ten were compound dislocations The usual cause is a fall, in which the foot is violently twisted outwards, or the eversion may be combined with direct pressure, as when a horse falls on his side with the leg and foot of the rider against the ground. M. L. Boyer met with a good example of this form of dislocation, and has carefully recorded the symptoms. _ The foot was carried outwards, so that its axis was placed external to the axis of the leg by about an inch and a quarter, but it was not everted. The os calcis, thus carried outwards, obscured the malleolus externus ; underneath this latter was a deep gap, into which the integuments could be pushed. Internally the internal malleo- lus was prominent ; underneath it could be felt a large osseous surface, raising the skin, and easily recognisable as the trochlear surface of the astragal us turned inwards. More anteriorly were felt the head and neck of the astragalus. The summit of the malleolus internus rested upon the external surface of the astragalus, now become superior. There was no fracture, and the tibia retained its connections with the fibula. In two other instances of simple dislocation the astragalus was turned in the same way as in the case just related; that is, with its superior surface looking inwards, and its external surface upwards ; but in a case of which Sir A. Cooper has given a drawing, and in another which was observed by M. Malgaigne, this was not the case, the astragalus having been displaced directly inwards without undergoing inversion. In Sir A. Cooper's case the head of the astragalus was completely dislocated from the scaphoid, but the body was not completely removed from between the tibia and calcaneum. In M. Malgaigne's the dislocation of the astragalus was incomplete as regards all its articulations ; the head was only slightly prominent inwards, and the internal border only of the trochlea projected. The projection formed by this latter was obscured by the malleolus internus, wliich was separated from the tibia by an oblique fracture, and carried inwards. M. Beyer's case is the onlj' one in which the reduction was effected. Chloroform having been administered, the limb was placed on its outer side with the leg semi-flexed. Two assistants then made counter-extension from the thigh, while two others made extension from the heel and fore-part of tho foot, and the surgeon pressed the astragalus out- wards with his thumbs. After several attempts the bone passed under the tibia, but still retained its inverted position. Finding this, M. Boj'er, at tho moment when the extension was greatest.