V. ly an opening can be more conveniently made tl.aii with a trepliine. The following way of making the opening is recommended by Sir B. Brodie : " Raise up the cheek, so ns to expose tlie membrane covering the gum ou the side of the face, mid, with a scalpel, make a transverse incision down to the bone. In one case (savs he), I did otherwise, thinking the division of the membrane, as a separate part of the operation, was unneces- sary; but the consequence was that the blood escaped into the celhilar membrane underneath, and there was an immense ecchymosis, rendering the rest of the operation very difficult. Then per- forate the thick plate of bone, as nearly as possible to what you suppose to have been the original seat of the disease." The best instrument for this pur- pose, according to Sir Benjamin Brodie, is a pair of sharp-pointed strong scissors. " Apply them' to the bone in their closed state, using them as a chisel, and thgy will easily penetrate it, and go into the antrum. With these the bone may be broken away'to the requisite extent." (See Mem. de l^icad. de C/iii: t. iv, p. 351 ; Gooch's Ohs. AjJ- pend. p. 138.) Some e.xamples occur, where it is absolutely necessary to expose a great part of the surface of thu bone, and to cut away the dead pieces which are wedged, as it were, in the living ones. In general, liowever, it is prudent to wait till the dead bone is loose ; and, in the meanwhile, to restrict our interference to preventing the lodgment of matter, and maintaining cleanliness. Tumors of the Antru.ai. Riiysch, Bordenave, Desault, Abernethy, Wein- hold, Gensoul, Listen, Regnoli, Guthrie, and others, have recorded examples of various kinds of tu- mors aifecting the antrum. Surgical writers de- scribe polypi of the antrum; and as growths of the kind have their origin from parts invested by mucous membranes, it is natural to expect that the antrum would occasionally be the situation of them. Yet the disease must heie be very rare; and Sir Benjamin Brodie even regards the history and treatment of polypi of the antrum as altogether hypothetical'; and he-adds, "No polypus, I be- lieve, ever existed in tlie antrum, around which a surgeon could put a ligature; and I never heard of the operation being performed." (See'Lond. Med. Guz. for Dee. 1834, p. 850.) In no hospital, either civil or military, have I had an opportunity of seeing a polypus of the antrum ; neitlierhas any case presented itself to me out of an hospital. I join Sir Beiijanain Brodie therefore in believing the disease to be exceedingly rare. There are, however, some good authorities in confirmation of the fact that polypi do sometimes grow in the antrum. {Einhkiirn, Clielius, &c.) Certain other tumors, orij;inating within the antrum, are far more common ; some of which arc of a fibrous, sarcomatous, or osteo-sarcomatous character, free from malignancy ; while the others are of a malig- nant cancerous kind, partaking of the nature of medullary tumors, or of carcinoma, and sometimes of both of these formidable diseases together. [Non-malignant tumors in the antrum, while in an incipicflit state, present but few symptoms. The absence of [lain at lir.st, and the indolence of thi'ir growth, tend to conceal their existi'nce;] but such a disease rarely exists a long while without being accompanied with some affection of the neixlibour- ANTRUM. 249 be ascertained before it has attained such a size as to have .altered in a serious degree the natural shape of the antrum. This information may be acquired, by examining whether any of the teeth have become loose, or have spontaneously fallen out; whether the alveolar processes are sound, and whether there are anj'' fungous excrescences making their appearance at the sockets ; whether there is any habitual bleeding from one side of the nose, any sarcomatous tumor at the side of the nostril, or towards the great angle of the eye. When the swelling, however, has attained a cer- tain size, the bony parietos of the antrum are dilated, and an extraordinarj' swelling of the cheek takes place. [It is principally, if not exclusively, in these cases of non-malignant disease that opera- tions for the removal of a portion or the whole of the superior ma.'cilla are now considered admis- sible.] A swelling of the parietes of the antrum, in consequence of an abscess, or a sarcomatous tumor in its cavity, may lead us to suppose the case an enlargement of the bones, or an exostosis. The symptoms of the two first affections have been already detailed. One sii^n of an exostosis, be- sides the absence of the symptoms characterising an abscess or a tumor in the antrum, is the thick- ened parietes of this cavity forming a solid resist- ance ; whereas, in cases of mere expansion, the dimensions of the surface of the bone being in- creased while its substance is rendered propor- tionally thinner, the tumor .is softer and more yielding. * - When such an exostosis depends upon a par- ticular constitutional cause, and especially upon one of a venereal nature, it must be attacked by remedies suited to this aifection. But when the disease resists internal remedies, and its magnitude is likely to produce an aggravation of the case, a portion of the bone may be removed with a tre- phine or other cutting instrument. Malignant tumors of the antrum are attached to the mucous membrane, and fill up the cavity. At first the patient has but little pain, and the ex- istence of the disease is scarcely indicated by any particular symptoms. But as the disease advances, tilings are different. The tumor, growing larger presses upon the inner surface of the antrum, and causes its bony parietes to become dilated. By degrees it forms a projection in the cheek. After a time, there is another projection in the bony palate. Then one occurs at the inferior part of the orbit ; and there is still another blocking up the nostril. From the pressure of the tumor, the osseous texture of the antrum is ab- sorbed, the alveoli rre destroyed, and the teeth are loosened, or drop out. At length the morbid growth either makes its way into the orbit dispacMig the eye, and passes through the orbitar pla e of the irontal bone into the skull and proves fatal, or else it protrudes through the front or lower part of the antrum: in cither of whichl-ist situations it presents a large icetid, bleeding mass in-ingmg the patient to his doom with cniial co, tainty. In the Museum of University Colk-Be -ire three specimensof malignant disease of the antrum in two the swelling made its way from the antrum' to the brain ; in the third, wliichwas taken from nii elderly woman, a patient of mine, who died in the ingpart.?; and hence its presence may general hospital, the medullary and scirrhous mass after entermg the orbit, and displacing the eye, caused