GUNSHOT WOUNDS. wodern conical one. Yet, according to Dr Ma» p. 255), very many cases of this nature oc- curred in the Crimea. He says, " The strong aponeurosis which protects the front of the abdo- men, exercises a great influence in deflecting the ball when it has struck at all obliquely. The track which is thus made requires careful manage- ment during cure, to get it to close. If it he long, it is good practice to make a counter-opening at its centre, in order to prevent the lodgment of pieces of cloth or pus in its interior. This can, however, be necessary only when, neither by syringing, nor by the introduction of an elastic bougie, we can get rid of them." When balls lodge in the parietes and are deeply seated, Mr. Guthrie recommends that they should be left alone, unless they prove troublesome ; when superficial, they are to be ex- tracted. _ Wounds of the abdominal parietes slightly open- ing the peritoneum, should be united by suture they are not generally followed in healthy sub- jects, by more than partial inflammation of that membrane; a sufficient amount is necessary to agglutinate the edges of the wound together • per- fect quietude should be enjoined, and strict'anti- phlogistic treatment adopted. Mr. Guthrie recom- mends the avoidance of purgative medicines in such cases. No food, he states, should enter the patient's mouth, and only sufiicient water to moisten his lips and allay the thirst. Injections of warm water and gentle laxatives may be administered after a day or two, to assist the operation of the bowels. The treatment should be regulated by the deo-ree of inflammation which follows on the reaction free venesection may be indispensable. Leeches' are often very beneficial combined with bloodletting, or alone, where the patient's strength will not bear a larger abstraction. This treatment must be fol- lowed by calomel and opium every four or six hours, according to the urgency of the symptoms of each particular case. The third order of wounds of the abdomen are perhaps the most fatal injuries tliat occur ; of 63 cases reported under this head as occurring before Sebastopol, in men, subsequent to April'lst, 1855, only three recovered sufficiently to be invalided • in officers, 14 out of IS died. The cause of death appears usually to have been from " shock" with or without internal htemorrhage, and the great majority of the cases died within 24 hours of the receipt of the injury. The number of cases where serious hasmorrhage had taken place, either from vessels of the abdominal walls, or the contained great vessels or substance of the viscera, was incon- siderable. A smaller proportion of the cases of penetrating gunshot wounds of the cavity died from peritonitis, usually of an asthenic form, and these often lived many days. The most significant symptoms of lesion of the viscera are great prostration, weak and feeble pulse, tension of the abdomen, hiccough and vomiting • most if not all of these may occur in cases where there is no injury to the viscera, but the continu- ance ot these symptoms indicates the very great pro- iJaDUity of their being wounded. Whore balls enter inte^Hn *r '•''"'y infli'^ting injury to the some norV "V'^^y afterwards find their way into and be "'"^^''-^tive absniiion, n-^es of this nature are recorded ; Baron Larrcy, however, states that in more than a hundred cases of^this accident he had not observed a sinrie ex ample where a ball had been expelled by stool He therefore advises that search should be made for the bullet with the finger and thumb, and re- moved if within reach. Wounds of the small intestines are always con- sidered to be more dangerous than the large Dr Ihorason only saw two cases of wounds of the small gut, m the way of recovery, after Waterloo Larrey reports several. The small intestines may be perforated in several places by the same bullet. t ^^^^54 '.'''"'^ occmrred before Sebastopol, in the 19th Regiment, where the convolutions were wounded in sixteen places.] It is observed by John Hunter, that such wounds ot the abdomen as do not injure parts like the stomach, intestines, bladder, ureters, gall-bladder, large blood-vessels, &c., all of which contain par- ticular fluids, will generally end well. But he I ^u^^l ^ difference, when tile ball has passed with immense velocity, as a slough will be produced ; whereas, when the ball has moved with less impetus, there will not be so much sloughing, and the parts will in some de<Tee heal by the first intention. Even when the ball occasions a slough, the wound frequently termi- nates well, the adhesive inflammation taking place m the peritoneum, all round the wound, so as to exclude the general cavity of the abdomen from taking part m the inflammation. Such is often the favourable event, when the ball, besides entering the abdomen, has wounded parts like the omen- tum, mesentery, &c., and gone quite through the body. {Hunter, On Liflammation, Gwishot]Wounds, ^0. p. 543.) ' In gunshot wounds of the belly, an extravasa- tion IS apt to take place on the sloughs becomin-r loose, about eight, ten, twelve, or fourteen days after the accident; but, says Mr. Hunter, although this new symptom is in general very disagreeable, most of the danger is usually over before it can appear. The stupor, that remarkable consequence of severe injuries, is particularly observed to follow those afi'ecting the cavity of the abdomen. The patient quickly turns yellow, and lies completely motionless, inattentive to everything around him. (See Dupmjtreti, Clin. Cldr. t. ii. p. 543.) This I have often seen exemplified in fatal cases. At the assault of Cairo, 1799, M. N. was shot in the abdomen with a ball, which divided the muscular parietes of this cavity on the right side, and a portion of the ileum. Larrey being upon the field of battle, gave him the first assist- ance. The two ends of the intestine protruded in a separated and inflated state. The upper end was everted, in such a way, that its contracted edge, like the prepuce in a case of pai'apliy- mosis, strangulated the intestinal tube. The course of the fajces was thus obstructed, and the contents of the bowel accumulated above the con- striction. Altliougli the patient's recovery was nearly hope- less, both from the nature of the wound, and from the debility and cholera morbus which had already seized him in the short period that he remained without succour in one of the intrenchmcntSjIjarrej' was desirous of trying what could be done for so singular a case. Ho first made four small cuts through the constricted part of the intestine, with