80 AMPUT this method, the bone may be sawn considerably iiigher tban it could be if no attention were paid to beginning with the division of the loose muscles, and concluding with that of others attached to the bone. M. Louis argues, that the protrusion of the bones will never take place, so long as they are immediately encompassed with the fleshy substance of the muscles: this proposition is incontestable. But, with regard to another assertion, that whether the skin saved by the operation be long or short is a circumstance that has no influence in prevent- ing or promoting the protrusion, I believe that this part of his statement is less correct. (See Mem. stir la Saillie de VOs apras VAmpiilaiion, in Mem. do I'Acad. de Chirurgie, torn. v. p. 273, edit, in 12mo.) As Mr. Guthrie has observed, a protrusion of the bone, after sloughing of the stump or other accidental circumstances, will sometimes happen, without any fault on the part of the operator; but he thinks it may almost always be prevented by attention to the following rules : — 1. To leave the integuments attached to the muscles, instead of turning them back. 2. When the muscles are cut through in a slanting direction, upwards and in- wards, or even directly downwards, to separate them from the bone, so that it may appear at the bottom of the cone as a depressed point. 3. To cut the bone short, and to keep the limb constantly ban- daged from the trunk during the cure, so as to prevent the retraction of the muscles. If a sur- geon find, directly after the operation, that the bone cannot be well covered, he should imme- diately saw off as much more of it as will reduce it to its proper length. The error may be remedied at this moment with very little inconvenience, in comparison with what must afterwards be encoun- tered if the opportunity be neglected. {On Gun- sliot Wounds, p. 109.) This last piece of advice perfectly agrees with the view which I entertain of the subject. When the end of the bone protrudes, it of course hinders cicatrisation, and becomes itself affected with necrosis. By the process of exfolia- tion, the dead portion of bone is sometimes thrown off, and a cure follows. But, in general, this de- sirable change is extremely tedious, and the result uncertain ; because it frequently happens, that, after the piece of bone has separated, the rest yet projects too much, and the stump still continues too conical to heal firmly enough to be capable of bearing the necessary pressure. When, however, the end of the bone forms only a slight projection, and the stump is not too conical, it is always best to leave nature to throw off the redundant exfolia- ting portion. In the opposite circumstances, the removal of all such parts of it as cannot be covered by the integuments is the best practice, and, if well executed, will effect a cure. The second operation is exceedingly unpleasant to the surgeon, because patients are apt to suspect, and not without reason, that the first was not pro- perl}' managed. Let me therefore repeat, that tlio surest way of avoiding tlie evil is to cut the deep muscles rather higher than the superficial ones, as inculcated by M. Louis, by wliich means the bone will certainly lie within the level of the surface of the divided flesh. If the soft parts are found to be deficient, let another piece of the bone be exposed and sawn off at once, before the patient is removed from the operation table. [Sometimes, although a sufficiency of covering may have been left in the first instance, a portion of bone will become necrosed, in consequence pro- bably of the mechanical injury it has suffered, together with its periosteum and medullary mem- brane, from the application of the saw. In such a case, notwithstanding the end of the bone may have been well covered at first, it will often ultimately protrude, in consequence of the gradual retraction of the soft parts during the long delay in the heal- ing process, which is the necessary result of the presence of the dead piece of bone. In a case of this kind, where we may infer the protrusion to be the consequence of the necrosis, rather than the necrosis of the protrusion, it will obviously be better to leave the separation to the efforts of nature. Mr. Syme believes that it is not the local injury which is alone concerned in causing death of the bone after amputation, but that inflammation of the medullary membrane may cooperate, if it does not sometimes act exclusive!)', in its production. The most conclusive evidence in support of this opinion, he remarks, is presented by those conical-shaped exfoliations, extending up the interior of the bone, sometimes to the length of several inches, which are occasionally extracted from stumps. Mr. Syme has one in his possession, extracted from the humerus, which is five inches in length. He be- lieves further " that if the medullary membrane be liable to inflammation, suppuration of its texture and inflammation of the veins cannot fail to be the frequent consequence, especially in hospitals where, notwithstanding every precaution, certain descrip- tions of injuries will always be apt to excite phle- bitis and other forms of spreading inflammation. But when the bone is divided through the con- dyles " (he is speaking of amputation just above the knee joint) " nothiug more than the epiphy- sis being concerned, the medullary membrane is not at all disturbed, while the cancellated texture is not liable to exfoliate, either from its proneness to die from injury, or through inflammation of any otlier texture." (See Ed. Monlhly Journal, Mnj', 1845, p. ,537.) So impressed was Mr. Syme with these opinions, that he thought it preferable in all cases to amputate through the cancellated extre- mities of bones, and he believed it to be an error to divide the thigh bone through its shaft instead of through the condyles or trochanters. These views may be correct so far as regards necrosis of the bone, which is probably less likely to occur in the cancellated texture on account of its greater vascularity; but with respect to the risk of plilebitis being lessened by amputating in the immediate neighbourhood of a joint, this must be extremely problematical; on the contrary, we should expect that the danger would be increased, on account of the large number of veins always dis- tributed within the articular extremities of the bones; and, moreover, if injury to the medullary membrane has anything to do witl\ the production of phlebitis, the risk must also be greater from this cause in the cancellated texture, since every coll is lined by a membrane continuous, and in every re- spect identical, with the medullary membrane of the shaft. It is necessary, however, to state that Mr. Syme, having become dissatisfied with the results of his amputations through the condyles of the femur, lias fcinco censed to perform this operation or