DISLOCATION. 519 1. I, 4 ' The distinction between the subcoracoid and the intra-coracoid is therefore very alight, and seems soarcely sufficient to warrant so complete a separa- tion as M. Malgaignc has made between them ; and, indeed, all three appear to be included by Sir A. Cooper in his dislocation into the axilla. The term intra-coracoid is also objectionable, since it suggests that the head of the bone is altogether on the inner side of the process, as in Sir A. Cooper's dislocation forward nnder the pectoral muscle ; and M. Ne'laton had already employed the word intra-coracoid in the description of the same displacement which M. Malgaigne desig- nates " subclavicular." Sir A. Cooper's dislocation forwards, therefore, is represented by M. Nelaton's *'intra-coracoid," but by M. Malgaigne's "subclavi- cular." With reference to the incomplete disloca- tion, M. Malgaigne maintains that the relation of the coracoid process to the glenoid cavity will not permit a displacement directly forwards against the outer side of that process, as described by Sir A. Cooper; but that the head of the bone must neces- sarily pass somewhat downwards as well ; and this he describes as an " incomplete subcoracoid " dislocation.] Causes.—The action of external bodies, directed against the arm, hnt particularly falls, in which this part is forced against a resisting body, gives rise' to primitive dislocations ; and then the different species of the accident are determined by the par- ticular position of the humerus at the instant when the injury takes place. Should this bone be raised from the side with- out being carried either forward or backward ; should the elbow be elevated, and the fall take place on the side, then the weight of the trunk, almost entirely supported by this bone, forces downward its upper part, which stretches and lacerates ^e lower part of the capsular ligament. Thus a luxation downward is produced, and its occurrence may also be facilitated by the com- bined action of the latissimus dorsi, pectoralis major, ;ind teres major muscles, as Fabre has judiciously remarked ; for being at this period in- voluntarily contracted to support the trunk, they act with the power of a considerable lever ; the resistance being tiio head of the bono^ which they draw downward, while the fixed point is the lower end of the bone, resting against the ground. Some authors also consider, as the immediate c.iuse of a dislocation downward, the strong action of the deltoid, which is supposed to depress the head of the bone, and push it downward through the capsular ligament. In support of this opinion, Bichat mentions the well-known case of a notary, who luxated his arm downward in lifting up a register. The rationale of the primitive luxation forwards differs very little from that of the preceding case. The elbow is both separated from the side, and carried backward : in falling, the weight of the body acts on the humerus, the front piirt of the capsule is lacerated, and a luxation takes place in tins direction. The dislocation })aekwards is produced in the fame sort of way. The elbow is carried forwards, towards the opposite shoulder ; the posterior part (f the capsule is stretched backwards, and if a suf- ticicnt force net on the limb, it is lacerated. I In the above description of the causes of disloca- tions of the shoulder, indirect violence only has been taken into consideration, and Petit, Dupuytren, and many others, believed this was the only way in which the accident could be produced. It is now well established, however, that the direct application of force to the shoulder by a fall or a blow on the part, is by no means an unfrequent cause of dislocation. .Sir A. Cooper was fully aware of this, and in speaking of dislocation downwards, he even says, that " the most frcqiieiU cause is a fall directly upon the shoulder on some uneven surface, by which the head of the bone is driven downwards, whilst the muscles are unprepared to resist the shock."—{On Fractures and Dislocations, edited by Branshy Cooper, p. 369.) Mr. Bryant has lately published an account of thirty-four cases of dislocated shoulder, observed by him at Guy's Hospital. He states that of these, twenty-two were examples of dislocation downwards, five of dislocation forwards, and six of the two former combined, together with one of dislocation back- wards. In thirty-one out of the thirty-four cases, the cause of the injury was a direct fall upon the shoulder, either forwards, backwards, or outwards. In two instances only of dislocation downwards, and in one of dislocation downwards and forwards, was the bone displaced by a fall upon the extended arm.—(Med. Timesand May 1859, p. 493.) M. Malgaigne's investigations into the causes of dislocations of the shoulder seem to show- that certain displacements are ordinarily due to direct, and others to indirect violence. Thus he found that the dislocations directly downwards "subglenoid," and "subcoracoid," were most com- monly the result of falls upon the extended arm, rarely of falls or blows upon the shoulder ; but that the dislocations downwards and forwards, " intra- coracoid,"ormoredirectlyforwards, "subclavicular," were often produced by force applied directly to the shoulder itself, and operating upon its outer or pos- terior part. In the intra-coracoid displacement, which he believes to be the most common of all the great majority were thus occasioned. Direct'vio- lence to the anterior part of the shoulder has also been found not unfrequently to be the cause of the dislocation backwards. These are resulis which might have been expected, taking into consideration the exposed condition of the shoulder-joint at its anterior and posterior aspects, as compared with its upper part, where it is greatly protected by the coraco-acromial arch.] Several causes may lead ia s.consecutive luxation. If, after a dislocation has occurred, a fresh fall should happen, while- the arm is separated from the trunk, the head of the humerus, which nothing confines, obeys with the utmost facility a force applied to it in this manner, and is again pushed out of the situation which it accidentally occupied Thns,aman, in goingdown stairs,met with a fall' and dislocated the humerus downwards • heimme' diately sent for Desault, who deferred the reduction till the evennig. In the meantime, the patient in getting upon a chair, slipped and fell again f ho pani was more acute than when the first accident occurred ; and Dc-sault, on his return, instead of finding the head of the humerus as it wis m the morning, in the hollow of the axilla, found It under the pectoralis major muscle.' The action of muscles is a permanent cause of a new displacement. When the humerus is luxated downward, the pectoralis major, and the deltoid