538 minent externally and the greater sigmoid cavity em- braces and conceals the external condyle and condy- loid ridge. The arm is in a condition of semiflexion and much pronated. In the case observed by M. N^laton, ill wliich the dislocation was of twenty years' standing, flexion and extension could only be performed in a very limited degree, but the move- ments of pronation and supination were preserved. In another case, observed by M. Robert, of an old man of seventy, who had dislocated the bones in his infancy, flexion and extension were tolerably free, and the arm was nearly as strong as on the sound side. (See Malgaiff7ie, loc. cit. p. 614.) A case of complete dislocation outwards was lately (Dec. 1859) seen at St. Mary's Hospital, and reduced by Mr. Davis, one of the house sur- geons. The patient had fallen from a cart and had struck the inner side of his elbow. He was brought to the hospital a few minutes after the ac- cident, and before any swelling had had time to take place. The upper end of the ulna rested upon the external condyle of the humerus, and the triceps was noticed passing obliquely outwards to join the displaced olecranon: the fossa for the olecranon could be distinctly felt at the back of the joint ; the radius was placed in front of the external condyle.] Reduction of the lateral dislocations of {lie eZJojo.—Boyer advised the reduction of the direct lateral dislocations to be effected, by extending the fore-arm on the humerus, and at the same time push- ing the extremity of the humerus, and the ends of the ulna and radius, in opposite directions. In each of the haclcward and lateral dislocations, (according to Sir Astley Cooper,) the reduction may be performed by bending the arm over the knee, even without particularly attending to its direc- tion inwards or outwards ; for as soon as the radius and ulna are separated from the humerus by the pressure of the knee, the muscles give them the proper direction for reduction. But in a recent case, as one which he relates proves, he considers that the business may be most readily accomplished by forcibly extending the arm ; for when this is done, the biceps and brachialis, which are stretched over the condyles of the humerus, draw the heads of the radius and ulma into their right places again, (p. 427.) ^ [With reference to this latter proceeding, M. Malgaigne refers to a case of dislocation backwards and outwards, related by M. Debruyn, in which he thinks it may have caused the tendons of the biceps and brachialis to slip behind the external condyle. The case is also instructive, as exem- plifying the evil consequences of too great em- ployment of force. In this case after various methods had tried and failed, the suggestion of Sir A. Cooper was acted upon, but equally with- out success. Tlie reduction was then postponed. On the following day, when the traction was renewed, it was found that in proportion as the bones of the fore-arm were drawn downwards, they '^''"'ed still further outwards, so as to give to the displacement the character of a complete dislo- cation outwards, but it was found impossible to carry the olecranon inwards, and immediately the extension was suspended : the bones flew back to ineir tormer position. Gangrene supervened, and tne arm was amputated. The dissection sliowed inat the tendons of the brachialis anticus and biceps nnu passed behind the external condyle. The DISLOCATION. bracliial artery and median nerve were found to L ruptured, (p. 613.) In the complete dislocation outwards, the reduc- tion has usually been accomplished with much greater facility than might have been expected I he surgeon may embrace the humerus with hh his two hands, and press with his thumbs upon the outer surface of the olecranon, to push it first in- wards, and then forwards ; should the radius be much rotated inwards,in the manner which has been described, it may be carried outwards by supinat- ing the hand ; in one case, supination, combined with very slight traction, eff'ected the reduction, coaptation being completed by the muscles, with- out the intervention of the surgeon. (See Mai- gaigne, loc. cit. p. 618.) In the case seen at St. Mary's Hospital, the ulna was readily reduced by bending the elbow over the knee, but the radius remained in front of the external condyle. This bone was next replaced by means of pressure upon its head, while the arm was kept in the extended position. The patient rapidly recovered the movements of the limb.] [3. Dislocation of both bones of tlie fore-arm for- wards—It was asserted by J. L. Petit, that this dislocation was impossible, unless accompanied by fracture of the olecranon process ; and this statement has been repeated by most surgical writers. Sub- sequent observations, however, have proved this opinion to be doubly incorrect, inasmuch as there are at least six well authenticated instances of the dislocation luitlmut the fracture, and only three pub- lished cases in which the two were combined. A fall upon the elbow, when the joint is flexed, ap- pears to be the ordinary cause of this accident. The dislocation may be incomplete or complete. In the former, which appears to be rather the more frequent of the two, the summit of the ole- cranon is applied to the inferior part of the humeral trochlea, causing an elongation of the limb equiva- lent to the height of the olecranon, and the head of the radius is separated by a sensible interval from the external condyle. The fore-arm may be ex- tended in a straight line with the arm, or it may be found slightly flexed. In the complete dislocation, the extremities of the radius and ulna are situated in front of the humerus, and may ascend so far as to produce a decided shortening of the limb. There will be a deep depression posteriorl3% while in front the radius and ulna are prominent beneath the integuments. In a case of compound disloca- tion observed by Mr. Prior, the humerus protruded through the integuments posteriorly, to the extent of two inches and a half, and the radius and ulna had ascended to a similar distance in front. In this case the fore-arm was bent at a riglit angle with the arm. (See Lancet, Dec. 1844.) The reduction of the incomplete dislocation has always been accomplished with ease. The surgeon should make pressure, in opposite directions, upon the dislocated bones of the arm and fore-arm, while the limb is gradually' brought from the straight to the flexed position. In a case of complete dislocation, M. Monin first attempted to bring down the olecranon to the level of the trochlea, by making vigorous extension in a straight line. Failing to accomplish this, lie forcibly flexed tlic elbow, bringing it thus into tlie position in which ho presumed it to have been when the accident happened ; then makingextension upon the