agitation. After dilating the wound in the temple. (See aSuvresChir. de Desault, t. ii. p. 29.) Larrey, fOO HEAD, INJURIES OF THE through which it hud passed was not more than three or four lines broad; every attempt to extract it, therefore, was in vain. The patient experienced a painful sense of oppression and weight in the head, and, whenever he inclined it backward, was seized with syncope. He kept himself constantly in a sitting posture, with his head on his knees. Larrey adds, that every symptom of compression of the brain also prevailed, though this account is rather difficult to comprehend, considering that the patient could sit up and choose his posture. As for any description given by himself of his sulFer- ings, that is another circumstance, on which I should not be inclined to dwell, because in all pro- bability the baron was not able to converse in the Russian language, and the inferences respecting the man's feelings were made in some other way. But, whatever might be the real state of the symptoms (and in a case of this kind a correct ac- count of them would have been interesting), the ball was plainly ascertained, by means of a probe, to be of iron, and of much larger diameter than the opening through which it had entered; and that, for the purpose of extracting it, the application of the trepan was urgently necessary. The fracture was fairly brought into view by suitable incisions; three perforations were made with a small trephine at its upper part, and, after the removal of the angles of the bone between these perforations, the ball, which weighed seven French ounces, was readily extracted with the aid of a strong pair of forceps and an elevator. A considerable quantity of coagulated blood was also removed, under which the brain was found with a depression three or four lines deep. As soon as some splinters of the bone had been taken away, the part was dressed with a bit of fine linen dipped in warm wine, over which were placed charpie, several compresses, and a bandage. With respect to the application of warm wine, and other stimulants, to the surface of the brain, in wounds exposing or interesting that organ, it seems to be an invariable practice with Larrey, as well as Schmucker and the older sur- geons. On what principle the custom is still kept up, and whether it is truly right and useful, are questions which may be rationally put. In what- ever way experience may hereafter decide these matters, suffice it to add, that the patient was re- lieved by the treatment, and fell into a quiet sleep for two hours ; but in the evening he became feverish, and the wound acutely painful. A co- pious quantit}' of blood was then taken from the vena saphena (and why bleeding was not practised at first seems extraordinary). The dressings, which, according to my ideas, were highly objec- tionable, were removed, and a large emollient poultice applied. Cooling beverages, containing a small quantity of tartarised antimonj'', and anti- spasmodic anodj'ne medicines, were prescribed. The following day the patient's state appeared satisfactory, without the slightest disturbance of the senses, and, in due time, he perfectly recovered. The other soldier had been wounded in the left temple, with a leaden ball, five days before Larrey saw him. One half of the ball had gone into the cranium, through a very narrow breach; the other had burrowed under the temporal muscle, and lodged near the mastoid process. The right side of the body was paralytic, the senses were annihi- lated, and the man was in a state of incessant and exposing the fracture, Larrey discovered ilie track of the piece of lead, which had gone towards the mastoid process, and which he immediately ex- tracted by a counter opening. At the lower part of the temporal wound, he applied a trepan, very near the spot where the other portion of the ball was lodged. This, with some fragments of the bone, and a quantity of extravasated blood, was easily extracted. The patient, however, was not saved, the operation having been done too late. In another case, one of the Imperial Guards, wounded at the battle of the Moskowa, died with symptoms of compression, and, after death, a quarter of a bullet and a fragment of bone were found under the skull, attended with an ulcerated or wounded state of the adjacent portion of the brain. Larrey expresses his opinion, that this sol- dier would have had a chance of being saved, had the trepan been used. (See Mem. de am: Mil. t. iv. p. 183, &c.) The practice of trephining for the removal of balls situated near a fracture of the skull, within this bony cavity, or lodged amongst the fragments, or between the two tables forc°ed asunder (see EngeVs case, in VermiscMe Chir. Schr-iflen von J. L. Schmucker, b. i. p. 242), is not peculiar to Larrey, for it has been done by many other surgeons (see SchniicTier's Wahrnelimitngen, b. i. p. 298); but I do not know that he has been anticipated in his bold practice of making a counter- opening in the skull, when the ball is lodged at such a distance from the fracture that it cannot be extracted through any perforation made in the vicinity of the original injury; for it is a principle which he ventures to lay down, that, tvlien a hall has entered the cranium, tvithout quitting the roof of this cavity, the case is one requiring the application of the trepan. {Mtm. de Chir. Mil. t. iv. p. 180.) In the second vol. of this work (p. 139), the reader will find the account of a soldier who was struck on the middle of the forehead with a ball which penetrated the os frontis, and then passed obliquelv backwards, between the skull and the dura mater, in the course of the longitudinal sinus, as far as the lambdoidal suture, where it stopped. Larrey traced the situation of the ball, by the introduc- tion of an elastic gum catheter into the opening; and measuring the distance between the fracture and the place where he felt the ball, he cut down upon that part of the skull, beneath which he concluded that the ball was lodged. The bone was then perforated with a large trepan ; a good deal of pus was discharged; the bail was extracted, and the patient recovered. One thing here merits the attention of surgeons; Larrey tells us that a good deal of pus issued as soon as an opening had been made in the skull: there must then have been suppuration under the bone, and inflammation and detachment of the dura mater ; circumstances always indicated, ac- cording to Pott, hy a corresponding separation of the pericranium, and a pufly tumor of the scalp. Did these symptoms take place in the foregoing case, so as to be of any assistance to Larrey, in judging of the place where the ball was lodged ? and has the mention of them been omitted onlj' bj' accident? or are we to infer, that suppuration may happen between the cranium and dura mater, without any detachment of the pericranium and pufty tumor of the scalp ; a thing which Bichat asserts is proved by daily experience in the Hotel-Dicu, at Paris ?