216 ANEURISM participated in tlie dilatation, and the ease was one of the clearest specimens which I have ever seen of a true aneurism." '{Noriveaux Elhnens de Aled. Oph-aioire, t. i. p. 517.) The best pathologists now admit six varieties of aneurismal disease of the aorta. 1. A Dilatation, involving tlie whole circumference of the artery. 2. True aneurism, or a sacculated dilatation of only a portion of its circumference. 3. False aneurism, formed by ulceration or rupture of the internal and middle coats, and a dilatation of the external one into a sac. 4. Mia.'cd or sacculated aneurism, where, after partial or general dilatation of all the three coats, the internal and middle burst, and the external alone expands into another sac, engrafted as it were upon the original dilatation, or true aneu- rism. 6. The case in which the inner coat pro- trudes through the outer ones. {Dubois; Dupuytren; Laonnee, De VAuscult. t. ii. p. 693.) A fine speci- men of this is contained in Mr. Listen s coUectiop. 6. A few very rare examples have been noticed in which, after the rupture of the internal and middle coats of the aorta, the blood, instead of distending cuaio till- €.t,«ji ni-i ^^-^^—y _ w the external coat into a swelling, insinuates itselt more or less extensively between this coat and the middle one. Thus Laennec saw a case in which the internal and middle coats had a narrow fissure in them extending across two thirds of the circum- ference of the artery; and the blood had inter- posed itself between the external and middle coats, over more than half of the circumference of the aorta, from its arch to its bifurcation. {Laennec, De VAuscult. t. ii. p. 700.) Two similar cases are reported by Mr. Guthrie. {On Dis. of Arteries, p. 40 and 43.) The late Mr. Shelcelton met with a still more curious form of aortic aneurism, where the blood, after making its way through the internal and middle coats, had separated the external from the middle to the extent of four inches, and then passed again through the middle and internal coats into the canal of the artery ; thus forming a new channel, and the old one being obliterated. {Slie- kelion, in DuU. Hosp. Rep. vol. iii.) As Dr. Hope observes {Cyclop, of Fract. Med. art. Aorta), the foregoing are the only instances on record where a fissure of the internal and middle coats has been followed by more than a circum- scribed effusion of blood around it, occasionuig a sli-rht swelling of the external coat. Nichols found this in ti.ebody of George II. {Fhzl. Trans vol. lii. p. 269) ; and Hodgson once met with it, (On Dis. of Arteries, p. 63.) , p „ Aneurisms, and the diseases of the coats ot the arteries which precede their formation, are well known to be far more common in men than in women. {Sir A. Cooper, Hodgson, Lisfranc, &c.) Yet women are perhaps quite as frequently- afflicted with aortic aneurisms as men, though, with respect to external aneurisms, they may only ex- hibit the proportion of one case to fifteen or twelve in male subjects. (See Hope, in Cyclop, of Fract. Med. art. ylor/(f.) With respect to dilatation af- fecting the whole circumference, I may observe, that the great arterial trunks given off at right angles from the aorta, as the innominata and cojliac axis, generally participate in it ; but, as Laennec observes, the left subclavian commonly remains unaffected, on account of the acute angle at which it leaves the arch of the aorta. As for true aneurisms, almost all those of the ascending aorta and arch are originally of this description ; but the false is sometimes engrafted upon them. The tumor, which mostly inclines to the right side of the chest, generally springs from the anterior or the lateral part of the vessel, while the posterior is little, if at all, implicated. When it springs from the root of the aorta, and the middle and internal coats give way, the consequence is not a false aneurism surmounting the true, as in other parts, buta fatal extravasation into the pericardium. The reason of this is, thatthe portion of the aorta re- ferred to is destitute of the cellular coat, and the pericardium, which supplies its place, not being equally extensible, bursts while the aneurism is but of small size. (See Scai-pa, On Aneurism, by Wisliarl, p. 80 ; Hojye, in Cyclop, of Fract. Med. art. Aorta; Berlin, Bouilland, &c.) It does not appear certain to me, that the preparation, No. 367, in the Hun- terian collection at the College of Surgeons, proves, as Mr. Guthrie believes it does {On Dis. of Ar- teries, p. 70), that this doctrine is incorrect, be- cause, though it is true that the aneurism, in this instance, is of unusual size, the inner membrane can be distinctly seen passing over the atheroma- tous patches. As Dr. Hope remarks, the prepara- tion is then not one of false a7i(;;<n's!«, as the middle coat is perfect, the internal one alone being re- moved or diseased (it is doubtful which), at the base of the sac. Scarpa only maintains, that the pericardium becomes incapable of resisting a false extravasation after the inner coats have given ^^'^Iii the Museum of the University College, the preparation No. 616 exhibits three diminutive aneurismal sacs just above the valves of the aorta, one of which has burst into the pericardium. The preparation No. 617, in the same collection, is the heart of a patient who died of the rupture of a small aneurism within the pericardium. He had been operated upon for a popliteal aneurism only three months previously. The little tumor burst just above the pulmonary artery, and a bristle is passed through the opening from the inside of the aorta, where the sac is seen directly above the valves. V\ e know that in one case, when Sir Astley Cooper had just commenced the operation for popliteal aneu- rism, the patient suddenly expired, owing to a small aneurism near the root of the aorta happen- ing to burst into the pericardium at this moment of agitation and suffering. In thin subjects, the throbbing of the abdominal aorta is sometimes unusually plain through the integuments and viscera, and this has occasionally given rise to the suspicion of an aneurism ; a cir- cumstance which deserves to be remembered by every surgeon desirous of not pronouncing a wrong opinion. The preternatural pulsations, how- ever, wliich arc liable to be mistaken for those ot aortic aneurisms, arc of various kinds, and form a subject to which the attention of Dr. Albers, ot Bremen, the late Mr. A. Burns, and others, has been very usefully directed. (See AnnoMEN.) ^^^lile thoracic aneurisms of the aorta are not ac- companied by external swelling, the symptoms are all equivocal, as very similar ones may depend on a disease of the heart, angina pectoris, phthisis pulmonalis, &c. However, some difference de- pends upon the volume, position, and mature ot , the aneurism. Simple dilatation, •;; derate degree, hai-dly produces any <='^'--'='' ' "'^f^^ most inconsiderable false aneurisms may gn e r so to very serious disorder. The first and most com-