.920 manently. The after-treatment consists in the use of mild antiphlogistic remedies with the greatest attention to quietude of mind and body. Blood may be poured out, first, between th bone and dura mater; secondly, between the layer: of' this membrane and in the arachnoid cavity, thirdly, hsemorrhage may take place in the cellular tissue under the arachnoid; fourthly, in the sub stance of the hemispheres; and lastly, in the in terior of the ventricles. It may occur on th surface of the hemispheres, between the hemi spheres, or at the basis. It may be the result of a rupture of one of the arteries of the dura mater or of one of its sinuses, of the arteries of the brain itself, or of the veins upon the surface of the brain In many severe injuries of the head, the effusion occurs from all sources simultaneously. The most remediable form of haemorrhage is that depending on a rupture of one of the arteries of the dura mater, when the blood is collected between this membrane and the bone. When blood is poured into the arachnoid cavity from a wounded sinus, this membrane is necessarily lacerated. Rupture of the spinous artery is perhaps the most common cause of pressure from eff'used blood, and is gene rally dependent on a fracture traversing the groove of this vessel transversely or obliquely. When a rupture of the spinous artery happens it will be found generally that a large collection of blood occurs beneath the temporal aponeurosis. Abernethy, adopting the doctrine of Celsus, says, " If there is so much blood on the dura mater as materially to derange the functions of the brain, the bone to a certain extent will no longer receive blood from ■within, and, by the operation performed for its exposure, the pericranium must have been sepa- rated from its outside. I believe that a bone so circumstanced will not bleed; and I am at least certain it cannot with the same freedom uad cele- rity as it does when the dura mater is connected with it internally." {Ahernelhy''s Surg. WorJcs, vol. ii. p. 47.) Guided by the tumefaction of the scalp, the sur- geon in such cases should cut down upon the bone, and, having ascertained the seat of fracture, proceed at once to the removal of the bone. The temporal aponeurosis may require division to obtain a fair exposure of the fracture or suspected wound of ■Jhe spinous artery.] The effused blood is frequently situated below the part on which the violence has operated; and hence, when such part is pointed out by a woimd or discoloration of the scalp, or a fracture, and the symptoms of pressure are considerable, with paralysis on the opposite side of the body, I should have no hesitation about immediately trephining in the situation of the external injury. I have seen many cases in which such practice was justified by the result; and even when no extravasation ex- ists, this plan will sometimes detect a depression ot the inner table of the skull, and be the means of saving life, as happened in one very remarkable case which I trephined at Brussels after the battle t t:^} ■ it would be wrong to hold out the expectation that, by acting on this principle, the surgeon will always find blood im- TvfTf^ ""w- '.''^ P'""' '^^'inium which he Tu de to'ih Wuh respect to a fracture also, as a m casoe of ^^T "PPli'^'ition of the trephine "acious, dissections proving that nuiSeroua frac- HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. tures of the skull are unattended with any effusion of blood immediately under them; and his expe- rience taught him that the most frequent cases were those in which there was either extravasation without fracture, or a fracture with blood effused in apart of the head remote from the injury of the bone. {(Euvres Chir. t. ii. p. 130.) Even when blood is seen issuing from the fissure, he regards it as no proof of the dura mater being detached, as such blood may proceed from the vessels of the diploe. (p. 31.) But what is to be done when dangerous symptoms of pressure prevail, without any external mark to denote what part of the head has received the blow, or whether any at all ? for a general concussion of the head may produce an effusion of blood within the cranium. Under these circumstances Pott was against the operation, and says that " the only chance of relief is from phlebotomy and an open belly, by which we may hope so to lessen the quantity of the circulating fluids as to assist nature in the dissipation or absorp- tion of what has been extravasated. This is an effect which, although not highly improbable in itself, yet is not to be expected from a slight or trifling application of the means proposed. The use of them must be proportioned to the hazard of the case. Blood must be drawn oif freely and re- peatedly, and from different veins; the belly must be kept constantly open, the body quiet, and the strictest regularity of general regimen must be rigidly observed. By these means very alarming symptoms have now and then been removed, and people in seemingly very hazardous circumstances have been recovered." Desault also promulgated the same advice, and blamed the doctrine formerly in vogue, that it was better to apply the trephine many times uselessly than to let a single extrava- sation remain-undetected; for he was firmly con- vinced that the trephine, when used on this principle, was a source of greater mischief than the effused blood itself. {CEuvrcs Chir. t. ii. p. 34.) The same doctrine is espoused by Sir Astley Cooper {Lectttres, 6fc. vol. i. p. 288), and I believe by all the best modern surgeons. [If the effusion is extensive it ma}"- be requisite to remove two or more portions of bone. In some cases where the injurj-^ depends on topical violence, and the bone is comminuted, and the necessity of trephining is necessarily obviated, the removal of the comminuted portions will suffice for the escape of the effused blood. In the absence of any discoverable fracture, when a free incision has been made down to the bone, and severe symptoms of pressure continue, we may unhesitatingly adopt the advice given by Pott and Brodie, and proceed to the removal of the bone by the trephine. Brodie says : " Where no fracture is discoverable, yet if there is other evidence of the injury having fallen on that part of the cranium in which the middle meningeal artery is situated, the use of the trephine may be resorted to on speculation rather than that the patient should be left to die without an attempt being made for his preservation. I cannot indeed adduce any particular experience of my own in favour of what is here recommended; but I con- ceive that the instances which have been recorded, which the middle meningeal artery has been uptured without any fracture of the bone, and the known fact that there is sometimes a fracture the inner table of the skull while there is