1033 HYDROCELE. position adopted aa may cause the scrotum to be elevated, and the tendency to its tumefaction to he lessened. The scrotum is liable to become suddenly dis- tended by the efiusion of serous tluid, which Mr. Listen has called injlammatory oedema, resembling in many of its characters infiltration of urine, but requiring in some respects a different treatment. The serum is often of a putrescent and acrid cha- racter. This affection supervenes upon ulcers or sinuses in the groin, perinseum, or neighbourhood of the anus in patients out of health. It occurs also occasionally as a consequence of injury of the gen- ital organs, or is associated with bad strictures, without any disease of these parts, and without the least cause for the suspicion of urine having escaped in the cellular tissue. Suddenly the scro- tum begins to swell, and sometimes in less than twelve hours it will be found immensely distended; and this arises generally from the infiltration ap- parently of a very acrid and foetid sanies. If this be allowed to distend the scrotum without being arrested, it will have the same bad effects as the effusion of urine. The cellular tissue, to^ gether with the skin, is destroyed, and the testicles exposed. The only chance of saving the tissues consists in early and free incision of the most de- pendent part of the swelling, generally the inferior and posterior, in the mesial line, if the disease be seen early, or on each side of the raphd. A poultice may then be applied, and the scrotum well elevated and supported on a small pillow. When the sloughs come away, should sloughing super- vene, the granulating surface is to be treated in the ordinary way, with water dressing or zinc lotion. Attention should be paid to the general health. (See Lisioii, Med. C/nr, Trans, vol. xxii. p. 288, and Elements of Stirgery, p. 449.) In elderly persons predisposed to this complaint, the wearing of a bag truss is recommended for its prevention.] Hydrocele of the Spermatic Cord. The spermatic cord is affected with two species of hydrocele: the first is an cedematous affection, extending to more or less of the areolar tissue around the spermatic vessels, and called diffused liydroceJe of the spermatic cord; the second is a collection of fluid in a particular cavity, or cyst, which has no communication with the cavities of the common areolar tissue of the cord. This form is denominated, accordingly, encysted liydroccle of the cord. [Diffused Hydrocele of the Spermatic Cord.— This condition has been well described by Pott, under the name of hydrocele of the cells of the tunica communis. The disease is of the nature of simple oedema, a watery fluid being diffused throughout the loose tissue connecting the vessels of the spermatic cord, and enclosed in a sheath of condensed tissue, which is invested by the mus- culo-aponeurotic structure of the cremaster muscle. On dissection the sheath is found distended, and when the complaint has lasted for some time, more or less thickened. The areolar tissue beneath is infiltrated with a limpid albuminous serum of a white or yellowish colour, which flows out in the course of the dissection. It is owing to the con- finement of the fluid by the investing sheath that the swelling assumes an uniform - surface, and definite shape. The cells infiltrated with serum are converted into large vesicles, some of which are big enough to admit the end of the finger. These cells €are larger and more delicate towards the base of the swelling, where they sometimes disappear altogether; so that there is only one considerable cavity, the fluid having a tendency to collect towards the lowest and most depending part, and to form a fluctuating tumor. The base of the swelling corresponds to the point at which the spermatic vessels join the testicle, and at this part a' dense septum cuts off all communica- tion with the tunica vaginalis. (See Curling, On Diseases of the Testis, p. 149, and Scarpa, Me- moria suW Idrocele del cordone Spermatica,, 4to. Pavia, 1823.] That the cellular tissue of the cord as well as of the scrotum is often distended with serum, is very commonly witnessed in persons affected with general anasarca; and hence the distension is a fre- quent concomitant of the anasarcous condition of the scrotum, which has been already described. But, as I have never seen an instance in which such disease was restricted to the cellular texture of the cord, I am led to suppose that it is a very uncommon case. [Mr. Curling mentions that oedema of the cord alone is a very rare affection. Sir Astley Cooper does not allude to it, and Mr. Pott to whom we are in- debted for the best description of it, probably met with a greater number of cases than have occurred in the practice of any surgeon since his day. " Causes obstructing the return of blood from the testicle, as induration and enlargement of the glands in the course of the cord, would conduce to its production. I have observed a slight oedema of the cord in two or three instances after acute orchitis, but it always disappeared as the inflamma- tion subsided." [Curling, op. cit.) The pressure of a truss worn for inguinal hernia has also produced it.] The following is said by Mr. Pott to be the state of the disease while of moderate size. The scrotal bag is free from all appearance of disease ; except that when the skin is not corrugated, it seems rather fuller, and hangs rather lower on that side than on the other, and if suspended lightly on the palm of the hand, feels heavier: the testicle, with its epididymis, is to be felt perfectly distinct below this fulness, neither enlarged nor in any manner altered from its natural state: the sper- matic process is considerably larger than it ought to be, and feels like a varix, or like an omental hernia, according to the different size of the tumor ; it has a pyramidal kind of form, broader at the bottom than at the top : by gentle and con- tinued pressure it seems gradually to recede or go up, but drops down again immediately upon re- moving the pressure, and that as freely in a supine as in an erect posture : it is attended with a very small degree of pain or uneasiness ; which uneasiness is not felt in the scrotum, where the tumefaction is, but in the loins. [At the commencement of the disease the tumor assmnes a cylindrical form, but afterwards, as it increases in size, it becomes pyramidal, especially in the erect posture. The form of the tumor again is slightly changed, if the position is changed to the recumbent: it then becomes more oblong, and nearly of equal dimensions from the ring to the testicle. In some instances the eft'usion extends along the cord into the abdomen, as in a remark- able case related by Pott. However mucli the swelling may increase, it has been;, observed that