GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 809 of this occurred iu the 19th regiment, before Sebastopol.] " Not unfrequently, in injuries of the cranium the balls are lodged between its two tables, in some instances much flattened and altered in their shape, and in other instances, without their form being changed." From these facts it must be evident that even when a gunshot wound has two orifices the surgeon cannot be certain that the bullet has not been divided, and that no portion is lodged, unless the entire ball itself happen to be found. (See Thomson's Obs. in Military Hospitals in Belgium, p. 37, &c.) This part of the subject is noticed by all the best practical writers, and espe- cially by Barons Larrey and Dupuytren. When a ball strikes against hard substances, it is liable, says Dupuytren, to be changed in its shape, flat- tened, or broken into fragments, so as to produce injuries not readily accounted for. Thus, in one case mentioned by him, the ball struck against the sharp edge of the right tibia, and was split into two pieces, each of which passed through the calf of that limb, and then lodged in the calf of the other. Thus five openings were made bj' a single ball. (^Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 428.) In July 1830, a Swiss soldier was brought into the Hotel-Dieu, wounded by a ball, which had frac- tured the right parietal bone, and been split into two pieces, one of which escaped through the scalp, whilst the other passed through the posterior lobe of the brain, and lodged upon the tentorium. About the same period, another individual was admitted into the same hospital, with the occiput fractured, by a ball which was split, but fixed with the margin of the bone in its cleft. {Dupuy- tren, Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 444.) A single ball, though not split, may produce several openings. M. H. Larrey mentions a case in which a ball passed through the hand, then the skin of the groin, and next the left buttock, so as to cause six openings. (See Hist. Cliir. du Siege d'Anvers, p. 67.) Mr. Guthrie once spoke to me of another instance, in which six openings were left by a single ball, that passed through both thighs and the scrotum. As tlie ends of the vessels are contused and torn, gunshot wounds have generally at first little propensity to bleed seriously, unless vessels of im- portance happen to be injured. In the beginning there may even be little hiemorrhage ; though a considerable artery be so hurt that it afterwards sloughs, and a dangerous or fatal bleeding arises. Thus (as I have already mentioned), in one of my own patients, who had received a muskct-ball througii the ham, the popliteal artery gave way about ten days after the injury, and compelled me to take up the femoral artery; and in the Eliza- beth Hospital at Brussels, amongst the patients under the care of my friend Mr. Collier and my- self, about a week after the battle of Waterloo, the cases of ba:mnrrhage on the loosening of the sloughs were numerous, not at all coinciding with a calculation that the proportion of such examples, requiring the ligature of arteries, is only three or four in a thousand. (^Guthrie on Gunshot Wounds, p. 2, ed. C.) In Holland the truth of Mr. Hunter's observation upon this point appeared to mo to bo completely confirmed. It has long been known tliat a limb may be torn or shot ofi^, even near to the trunk of the body, and hardly any htcmorrhage arise. We had numerous proofs of this fact after the battle of Waterloo. I had tinder my care a man of the rifle brigade, whose arm was shattered to pieces as high as the shoulder, yet there was no ha;morrhage. I ampu- tated the thigh of a Dutch soldier, whose leg had been completely shot oft' by a cannon-ball ; but there was no ha;mon-hage before the operation. At Merksani, in 1814, I saw a case in which the greater part of the clavicle, scapula, and many adjacent parts had been carried away by a cannon- ball, and yet no bleeding of consequence occurred. The reason why a gunshot wound sometimes does not bleed much, though an artery of magnitude is torn, is because the vessel is nearly in the same state as when torsion has been practised ; that is to say, the end of it has been violently stretched, so as to draw out the elastic external coat from the inner ones, which remain in the form of irregular folds within the mouth of the artery, constituting a kind of barrier against the escape of the blood. But if the artery be only partly torn through, this change is not sufficiently complete, and a profuse and fatal haemorrhage may immediately follow the womid. The clot that forms within the vessel, is also an additional obstacle to the bleeding. Sometimes, after a limb has been shot oflf, the large arteries do not bleed in amputation. " We saw a man (says Dr. Thomson), whose leg had been shot off by a cannon-ball ; in amputating his limb above the knee, the arteries of the thigh were not perceived to bleed, nor did any of them after- wards require to be tied. A case, similar to this, also presented itself, in which the arm had been shot away close to the shoulder-joint." Sometimes the contusion produced by a cannon- ball, or the passage of a bullet in the vicinity of a large artery, seems to cause a laceration of the inner coat of the vessel, and a subsequent oblitera- tion of its cavity by the effusion of coagulable lymph. Facts in proof of this statement are re- corded by Dr. Thomson. (See Obs. in the Military Hospitals in Belgium, p. 34, 35.) In general, the most dangerous kind of hsemor- rhage from gunshot wounds is that named co7ise- cutivc or secondary. Either the artery has been totally or partially divided. In the first case, the slough immediately produced by the ball, the clot, which forms in the cavity of the vessel up to the fir^t collateral branch, and (as I should add) the irregular folds of the inner coats, detached from the outer, put a stop to the bleeding. But frequently, as soon as the circulation acquires strength, these impediments are overcome, and haemorrhage comes on. In other cases they con- tinue to be efficient until the whole internal surface of the wound, and the lacerated and dis- organised part of the artery are detached and loosened, as suppuration advances. But in this stage, if the end of the obliterated artery is too short, if the adhesive process is incomplete, or the patient moves about too much, the artery will give way. As Dupuytren observes, it is most com- monly about the tenth, fifteenth, or even as late as the twentieth day, that these secondary htemor- rhages happen, witiiout any particular symptom to give warning of their occurrence, excepting a thin bloody serosity, which is soniotimns discharged from the wound. Hence the necessity for the utmost vigilance at the period when such bleed- ings arc to be expected. They arc infinitely more