BLADDER X 2 together with gentle purgatives, will usually be of great service. Further indications must be sought for in an examination of the urine, and a careful inquiry into the general state of health of the patient.] [Paralysis op the Bladder.] [Paralysis of the bladder may form part of a general paralysis, and is thus a common result of injuries or diseases of the brain and spinal cord, and especially of the latter; or it may be local, and affect the bladder only. The latter kind of paralysis is often consequent upon retention of urine, and is the result of the over-distension which the bladder has undergone. Paralysis of the bladder may occasionally be seen in cases of typhus fever, and there is a species of paralysis belonging to hj-steria which is sometimes brought under the notice of the surgeon; and a partial paralysis, apparently independent of other disease, is not un- common in old age. Some writers describe paralysis of the bladder as of two kinds ; one affecting the body, and the other the neck, of the organ ; the former being attended with retention, and the other with incon- tinence, of urine. It is the former condition, however, which is usually understood when para- lysis of the bladder is mentioned, and which will be alone referred to here. For information on the other varietj', or the so-called paralysis of the neck of the bladder, the reader is referred to the article. Urine, Incontinence op. Paralysis of the bladder may be complete or partial, it may be sudden or giaduiil in its appear- ance. Perhaps the best example of sudden and com- plete paralysis of the bladder is that met with in fractures or dislocations of the verterbraj, with injury of the spinal cord ; but here, of course, it only forms part of a general paralysis, affecting all the structures below the seat of the in jury. In these cases, there is not only a loss of the muscular power to expel the urine, but there is also a complete absence of sensibility, and the patient is altogether unaware of the presence of the accumulated urine in his bladder. Under these circumstances, the blad- der becomes distended, and when the distension is excessive, the sphincter action of the neck of the bladder is overcome, and the urine dribbles away by slow degrees, in sufficient quantity to prevent furtlier distension, but without relieving that which already exists. .A practitioner unaware of this might mistake the case for one of incontinence of urine, in which there is inability to retain, instead of inability to ci-pd, the urine. In paralysis, a fluctuating swelling caused by the distended bladder may usually be felt by the hand applied to the hypogastric region, where it forms a tumor, which in some cases may reach as high as, or even higher than, the umbilicus. Per- cussion of this swelling will elicit a dull sound, which will serve to distinguish it from (listension of the bowels with flatus. In cases where the Burgeon is in any doubt, however, the introduc- tion of the catheter will at once clear up the difficulty. In injuries of the spine, this para- lytic retention must always bo expected, and its consequences provided against by the coiitiiuicd use of the catheter. In these casss, chronic in- flmnmation of the bladder rapidly supervenes, there is increnscd secretion of viscid mucus, the urine is alkaline, ammoniacal, and putrescent,' and 307 contains an abundant deposit of phosphates : ulcer- ation, gangrene, complete separation of the mucous from the muscular coats, are not unlikely ultimately to occur. The increased secretion of mucus may perhaps be, in the first instance, an effort of nature to shield the mucous membrane from irritation by the urine retained in the bladder ; but the rapid progress of a low iuflammatory action, and the tendency to ulceration or gangrene, are probably owing to that diminution of the power to resist degenerative processes which always accompanies the deprivation of nervous influence. The only treatment applicable to the paralysis of the bladder accompanying spinal injury, beyond the appropri- ate management of the injury itself, is the use of the catheter twice or thrice dail}-, and the occasional washing out of the bladder with tepid water, or water weakly acidulated with nitric acid. (See Fractures op Vertebra.) In diseases of the brain or spinal cord, the para- lysis may be incomplete, and may make its appear- ance slowly. In examples of this kind, the patient may pass a normal quantity of urine in the twenty- four hours, but the bladder be nevertheless always distended. When a certain degree of accumulation has talcen place, the contractility of the bladder is excited, and it partially empties itself, but never completely. A certain amount of urine, there- fore, is always retained in the bladder, be- comes decomposed, and excites inflammation of the mucous membrane. The patient may be un- aware that he does not empty his bladder com- pletely, and will be greatly astonished to find when his surgeon introduces a catheter, that one or two pints of fluid escape. In these cases also, the surgical treatment will be confined to the introduc- tion of the catheter, to prevent the urine accumu- lating and decomposing in the bladder ; the ulti- mate recovery from the paralysis of the bladder will depend upon the curability, or otherwise, of the disease of which it forms a part, and to which any further treatment should be directed. _ The cases in which the paralysis "of the bladder purely local are most frequently the result of over-distension; the stretching which the muscular and It may be, also, the nervous, fibres have under- gone, seems to deprive the bladder, although perhaps, only for a time, of its contractile power.' Thus, in cases of retention of urine, after relief has been obtained by the introduction of a catheter, the bladder may not recover its power to empty Itself for some days, unless artificial assistance is aflorded; a second retention, therefore, takes place this time not from any impediment to the expul- sion, but from the want of power to expel Per haps, after a certain amount of redistens'ion has taken place, a partial evacuation may be obtained not from the contraction of the bladder itself but on account of the compressing influence of the ab- dominal muscles being brought into play Paralysis from over-distension is very cmnmon in o d person8,inwhoin thoenlargement of the prostate gland forms a mechanical obstruction to the evacu- ation of the urine These persons frequently have heir bladders unduly distended, and sullor from at- tacks ot rolentioii more or less severe; the coiisc quoiicc IS, thatin the course of time, the contractilitr ot the muscular fibres is impaired, mid para'ysis more or less complete in different cases, is induced ' In treating the paralysis of the bladder caused Oy ovcr-distension, the indication is to maintain