HERNIA. parts protrude through the navel; while the other .periods of life are more liable to false umbilical herniffi, or such as arise in the vicinity of the umbilipus. {(Euvres Chir. da DesauU, t. ii. p. 315.) Besides a true hernial sac, the exomphalos is also_ covered by a more superficial expansion, con- eisting of condensed cellular substance. In operat- ing, however, a surgeon should always cut with great caution; for the integuments and hernial sac, m front of the tumor, are often inseparably adhe- rent; and sometimes, in large cases, when an ab- sorption of part of the sac has been caused by the jressMe of the bowels, they are even found adhe- rent to the integuments. [In stout persons affected with umbilical hernia of any size, notwithstanding there may be two inches of fat between the skin ■and abdominal muscles elsewhere, there will be none between the hernial sac and the skin, and the former, as above stated, will be found adherent to the latter.] Pregnant women, and dropsical and corpulent subjects, are peculiarly liable to the exomphalos. In adults, when there is intestine in the sac, there is almost always omentum. The transverse arch of the colon is observed to be particularly often •contained in umbilical hemiae, but the small intes- tines are not unfrequently protruded : and even the caecum has been found in a rupture at the navel, {^ee Lawrence, On Ruptures, p. 454, 455, ed. 4.) ' In the true umbilical hernia, the stricture is made by the tendinous opening in the linea alba. Let us ne.xt consider the umbilical hernia in the three particular forms, iu which it has been noticed hj the latest writers. Congenital UiuBiLrciL Hkrnia. Dr. Hamilton met with about two cases of this kind annually, for the space of seventeen years; ; and they strictly deserve the epithet congenital, as ; they appear at birth. The funis ends in a sort of bag, containing some of the viscera, which pass out I of the abdomen through an aperture in the situa- : tion of the navel. The swelling is not covered with skin, so that the contents of the hernia can be seen through the thin distended covering of tlie cord. The disease is owing to a preternatural deficiency in the abdominal muscles, and the hope of cure must be regulated by the size of the mal- I formation, and quantity of viscera protruded. The plans of cure proposed, consist of the em- ployment of a ligature, or of a bandage. The latter seems preferable, and was practised by Mr. Hey, as follows:—Having reduced the intestine, he desired an assistant to liold the funis compressed RufTiciently near the abdomen, to keep the bowel from returning into the hernial sac. " I procured (says he) some plaster spread upon leather; cut into circular piecwi, and laid upon one another in a conical form. Tliis com|)rcs3 I placed upon the navel, after I had brought the skin on each side of the aperture into contact, and had laid one of the lips a little over the other, I tlien put round the child's abdomen a linen belt; and placed upon the navel, a thick, circular, quilted pad, formed about two inches from one extremity of the belt. "This bandage kept the intestine securely within ihe abdomen, and was renewed occasionally. The ■funis was separated about a week after birth ; and lat the c.vpiration of a fortnight from that time, tlic aperture at the navel was so far contracted, that the crying of the child, when the bandage was removed, did not cause the least protrusion. I thought it proper, however, to continue the use of the bandage a little while longer. A small sub- stance, like fungous flesh, projected, after the funis had dropped oif, about half an inch from the bot- tom of that depression which the navel forms. A dossil of lint spread with cerat. e lapide calaminari, and assisted by the pressure of the baftdage, brought on a complete cicatrisation." (P. 227.) This gentleman has related another example, in which the intestines were quite imcovered and in- flamed, the sac having burst in deliver3^ The parts were reduced, but the child died. (See also G. A. Fried de Fixtii Inlesiinis plane mtdis extra Abdomenpropendentibas 7iato. Argent. 1760.) [M. Richet has devoted much time to the inves- tigation of the anatomy of the umbilical orifice, •before, and subsequent to, the separation of the cord, and has given an elaborate description of the mechanism by which it becomes closed. He espe- cially draws attention to two fasciculi of fibres arranged transversely in the form of a sphincter' which embrace the vessels of the cord. These fibres, which he describes as consisting of organic muscular fibre, are situated on the abdominal surface of the umbilical ring. These he con- siders to be the principal agents in closing the umbilical ring, and in constricting the umbilical vessels, upon which they act, after the manner of a ligature. He also describes a fascia, which he calls umbilical. It is situated on the deep surface of the umbilical vein, and joins laterally the fascia covering the abdominal muscles, and thus forms a ''^Mt'' {Archives generales de Mcdecme, 1856, 5e se'rie, tom. viii. p. 611 ) In congenital umbilical hernia, the abdo'niinal wall IS incomplete in the neighbourhood of the umbilicus. The protrusion takes place at the conflux of the umbilical arteries and vein, at the point at which the navel ought to be situated. It here separates these vessels from each other, where thev would, otherwise, unite to form the umbilical cord The hernia escapes, therefore, into the connecting tissue of the cord, separating its constituent parts in such a way as to have the vein above the sac and the arteries below and on either side of it form- ing throe sides of a sort of triangle. These vessels meet again at the fundus of the sac, to constitute the proper nmbilical cord. More correctly speaking the viscera, from arrest of development, have' never been situated within the abdominal ca'vity at all._ The covering of the swelling is very thin moist, and semi-transparent, through which the in' testines can be more or less distinctly seen. It is formed, in fact, of tlie covering of the umbilical cord, wliich joins the common integument at tlie margin of the inconiplolc abdominal wall, instead of as usual, at the navel. Tlie aspect of this semitrans- partnt tumor contrasts strangely with the opaque in- tegument covering the abdominal wall, and will always be recollected by those who have once seen It. The prognosis and treatment will depend upon the size of the tiimor, and the extent of deficiency in the abdominal parietcs. When these are con- sideiable, no treatment will be of any avail niul dea;h will ensue in from twelve to twenty-four hours. In all cases before reduction, the covering of the tumor should be kept moist and warm, other- wise evaporation will tiike place, and a sort of 3 S