the greatest ease by this method, and I have em- ploj'ed it myself, and succeeded in the first attempt in a case in which powerful and repeated extension downwards had been previously tried. It has the advantage of not increasing at the outset the tension of the constricting muscular and tendinous fibres, and thereby provoking their further contraction ; while, if the obstacle is caused by the anterior ligament and sesamoid bones in the manner which has been described, it appears to be almost the only way in which their disengage- ment is likely to be effected. Should these means fail (and failures have repeatedly occurred in the hands of the most distinguished surgeons), the question will arise, what further measures can be resorted to ? Sir C. Bell proposed to divide one of the lateral ligaments by subcutaneous section, but, as has been shown, it is questionable whether these are the real cause of the resistance. M. Malgaigne suggests the division, in the same waj', of the muscles which form the external border of the muscular opening Louionniere'''), through which the head of the metacarpal bone has passed. This method, however, was practised without success, in 1845, at the Hospital St. Antoine, and it failed also in the hands of M. Blandin, although combined with section of the lateral ligaments as well. This latter case, however, was of 30 days' standing. {Malgaigne, loc. cit. p. 74'2.) Dr. Lawrie thinks, that if the knife is used at all, it should be passed into the joint in such a manner as (if possible) to disengage the anterior ligaments and sesamoid bones from their unnatural position. {Land. Med. Gax. vol. ii. 1837, p. 93.) M. Malgaigne, on one occasion, after various methods had been unsuccessfully tried, introduced a pointed instrument through the skin into the articular surface of tlie phalanx, for the purpose of pushing it forwards, but he found that the point penetrated too far into the osseous tissue. He therefore, withdrew it, .and inserted it in front into the centre of the head of the metacarpal bone; then pulling upon the phalanx with one hand, and pressing upon the metacarpal bone with the instru- ment in the other hand, he immediately felt the bone return into its place. The reduction, which was for the momoit necessarily imperfect on ac- connt of the presence of the instrument, was easily completed by a little pressure as soon as this was withdrawn (p. 741).J [Dislocation foriuards.—This is much more rare than the preceding. Sir A. Cooper passes it over altogether without notice : and more recently M. Malgaigne has stated that he could find only four published cases, which he could consider as un- equivocal examples of it. A fifth, in wiiich the displacement was incomplete, was observed by himself. It appears to be usually tlie result of force applied to the dorsal surface of the plialanx. In the complete dislocation the head of the meta- carpal bone is prominent posteriorly, and the end of llie phalanx is thrown towards the palm. The displacement is not always directly forwards. In a case seen by M. Nelaton, the end of the plialanx was dislocated forwards and outwardh ; in one observed by M. Lombard, it was thrown forwards and iniL-arda, to such an extent tiiat it rested against the outer border of the third metacarpiil bone, and the thumb had undergone a shortening equal to the whole length of its first phalanx. This dislocation was the result of a fall on the DISLOCATION. £49 palmar surface of the thmnh. The position of tlie thumb does not appear to be constant; in M. Nelaton's case the first phalanx was flexed to an angle of 45° with the metacarpal bone ; in M. Lombard's, it formed, with the metacarpal bone, an angle of 0'0° in the opposite direction, while in a third case, seen by M. Lenoir, it was neither flexed nor extended. In all three, the phalanx was ro- tated inwards. The reduction is attended with much less diffi- culty than in the dislocation backwards. It should be conducted on the same principles as in the backward displacement, only, if pressure is used upon the extremities of the bones, it must, of course, be applied in the reverse direction.] Dislocation of the fingers at the mctacarpo-plia- langeal articulations.—The first phalanges of the fingers may be dislocated backwards off the heads of the metacarpal bones. A luxation forwards is more difficult; because the articular surfaces of the metacarpal bones extend a good way forwards, and the palm of the hand makes resistance to such an accident. [The index and little fingers from their more exposed situation, are more frequently dislocated tlian the others. The injury is not always con- fined to one finger, but two, three, or even all four may be dislocated at once. The reduction may be efi'ected by the same processes as in the dislocations of the thumb, but is not always to be accomplished without difficulty. M. Malgaigne remarks, that in the fingers as well as in the thumb, the metacarpal bone may be con- stricted by the muscular and tendinous fibres on each side of it,— interossei and lumbricales ; while M. Bie'chy has shown by experiment that here also the anterior ligament may be interposed between the base of the phalanx and the end of the metacarpal bone. {Malgaigne, loc. cit, p. 748.)] Dislocations op the Phalangeal Articu- lations. According to Sir Astley Cooper, dislocation of the fingers more frequently happens between the first and second phalanges, than between the second and third; the second being thrown forward, to- wards the theca, and the first backwards. The reduction is effected by making extension with a slight inclination forward, so as to relax the flexor muscles. When reduction is impracticable by common means, or from the oldness of the dis- location. Sir Astley Cooper disapproves of the scheme of dividing the ligaments, in order to suc- ceed. The mischief, which he has known arise from injuries of tendons and ligaments, deters him from advocating the practice. {On Dislocations, p. 48.5, 48G. ed. 4.) [The dislocation of the second phalanges from the first may take place cither backwards, forwards, or laterally. M. Malgaigne, who lias published an elaborate memoir on the subject of dislocations of tiie phalanges, found that out of thirteen cases, five were in the first, five in the second, and three in third direction. The displacement forwards, ac- cording to the same authority, may be either com- plete or incomplete. In none of the cases alluded to does there appear to have been any diflicnlty in replacing tlie bone in its proper situation, and the question of the propriety of dividing the lateral ligaments is therefore not very likely to arise. N N 3