gery but the application of a suspensory bandage the patient. All the movable viscera of the ab- domen gradually find their w.iy into the hernial sac, if a rupture be entirely neglected. {Laiv- rence, On Ruplures, p. 80, edit. 4.) Treatment op Irreducible HERNiiE, free PROM Inflammation, and unattended WITH TROUBLESOME OR DANGEROUS SYMP- TOMS. Mr. Pott, and all the best writers on ruptures, ascribe the incapacity of reduction, in most cases, either to the largeness of the quantity of the con- tents, an alteration made in their form and tex- ture, or to adhesions which they have contracted with each other or their containing bag. The reduction is also sometimes prevented by trans- verse membranous bands within the sac. Mr. Pott was also aware that ruptures are sometimes ren- dered difficult to be reduced by the caecum being contained in the hernial sac. Of this fact he was as much convinced as the nature of such kind of things would permit; that is, by observations made both on the living and the dead. This state- ment, made many j'ears back, deserves particular notice, because its truth is confirmed by the mo- dem observations of Scarpa. Mr. Pott has adverted to the kind of impedi- ment to reduction produced by the thickening of the neck of the sac, when the hernia is long neglected, and suffered to remain in the scrotum without any bandage to support its weight. The same author reckons an alteration produced by time, and constant, though gentle, pressure, in the form and consistence or texture of the omen- tum, as no infrequent cause why neglected omen- tal ruptures become irreducible. When a por- tion of omentum " has been suffered to remain for a great length of time in the scrotum, with- out haying ever been returned into the belly, it often happens that although that part of it which is in the lower part of the hernial sac preserves its natural soft, adipose, expansile state, yet all that part which passes through what is called the neck of the sac is, by constant pressure, formed into a hard, firm, imcompressible, camous kind of body, incapable of being expanded, and talcing the form of the passage in which it is confined, exactly filling that passage, and rendering it impossible to push np the loose part which fills the scrotum. " The same reason for incapacity of reduction is also sometimes met with in ruptures of the intesti- nal kind, from an alteration produced on that part of the mesentery which has been suffered to lie quiet for a great length of time in the neck of an old hernial sac. The other impediment to the return of old rup- tures is the connection and adhesion of the parts, either with each other or with the sac containing them. This is common to both the intestinal and omental hernia, and is produced by slight inflam- mations of the parts, which have been permitted to lie long in contact with each other. These ndlie- aions are more or less firm, and more or less ex- tensive, in different cases ; but even the slightest will .almost always be found an invincible obstacle to the reduction of the adherent parts by the hand only. They tire most frequently situated at the lower part of the sac, but sometimes at its mouth. {Sir A. Cooper, op. cit. p. 27.) Irreducible lierniaj, from any of the foregoing circumstances) are capable of no relief from eur- NIA. 047 for the purposes of lessening the inconvenience of the weight of the tumor, and of checking, by means of pressure, the increase of the swelling. But (according to Sir Astley Cooper), if the hernia be omental only, its increase, and the subsequent descent of the intestine, may safely be prevented by a spring truss. Yet he acknowledges that there is so much difficulty in determining the pre- cise nature of the hernia, and whether some small convolution of intestine may not have descended, that the truss should not be applied without a most careful examination; and he recommends the spring to be weak. If the instrument should produce pain, or interrupt the functions of the bowels, it ought to be immediately discontinued. Persons having irreducible hernise " should be particularly careful not to make any attempts be- yond their strength, nor aim at feats of agility; they should take care to suspend the loaded scro- tum, and to keep it out of the way of all harm from pressure, bruise, &c. When the tumor is very large, a soft quilted bolster should be worn at the bottom of the suspensory to prevent excoria- tion, and the scrotum should be frequently washed for the same reason; a loss of skin in this part, and in such circumstances, being sometimes of the utmost importance. Such sufferers ought also to be particularly attentive to the office of the intes- tinal canal, to see that they do not, by any irregu- larity of diet, disorder it, and they should be care- ful to keep themselves from being costive." Mr. Pott observes, however, that the quiet, inoffensive state of this kind of hernia is by no means to be depended upon : many things may happen to it, by which it may be so altered as to become hazardous, and even fatal; an inflammation of that part of the gut which is down, any obstruction to the passage of the aliment or faeces through it, a stricture made either on what has been long down, or on a new portion which may at any time be added to it, are always capable of so altering the state of the case as to put the life of the patient into danger. " Indeed, the hazard arising from a stricture made on a piece of intestine contained in the sao of an old irreducible hernia, is in one respect greater than that attending one that has been found at times reducible, since, from the nature of the case, it will hardly admit of any attempt towards relief but the operation, which, in these circumstances, must necessarily be accompanied with additional difficulty." Patients with irreducible hernia are exposed indeed to various dangers and inconveniences- as for instance, to laceration of the intestine by ac- cidental blows; to ulceration of it when any pointed or h.ard body has been swallowed; to dropsy of the hernial sac; and to a fistulous abscess of the scro- tum, wliicli can hardly ever be healed except by confining the patient in bed. (See Sir A. Cooper On Abdominal Hernia., chap. vi. ed. 2 ; Travers On fVounds of the Intestines, p. 37.) Scarpa has re- corded an instance where a violent exertion caused the recurrence of symptoms in an irreducible hernia which had long been regarded as cured. The vis- cera lay in the tunica vaginalis, which was torn to the extent of an inch. Fabricius Ilildanus gives an account of a man who was radically cured of an irreducible rupture of twenty years' date by six months' confinement to 3P2