HEAD. INJURIES OF THE. mentioned by Quesnay, M. Marechal was called to a girl who some time before had received a blow upon the head, which was speedily cured, except tnat a faxed pain remained over one of the parietal bones. It increased to such an extent as to give rise to fever, which was relieved by bleeding and other appropriate remedies. But the pain having existed for some years, M. Marechal deemed it prudent to apply the trephine. He easily dis- covered the seat of pain, and on sawing through the bone he remarked that it had the appearance of bone which had been long buried. The pain never reappeared. Morel also operated on two cases with the same result; but the pain depended in the first on suppuration beneath the bone, and in the other nothing particular was observed. In a case operated on by M. Vacher, the disease de- pended on a fungoid condition of the cortical sub- stance of the brain, the fungi adhering to the dm'a mater, and the bone was thinned so as to resemble a sheet of writing-paper. M. Gervais operated on a girl who had some time before received a blow on the back of her head, which left a fixed pain in the occipital re- gion. Whenever the part was violently handled, syncope invariably followed. On cutting down upon the bone the pericranium was found de- tached, and the bone carious ; it exfoliated, and all the symptoms ceased. Scultetus mentions a case of a child seven years old, who fell upon the forehead, and suffered afterwards fixed pain and convulsions. Pour months after the accident an opening was made in the spot, and the bone was found dead beneath : the bone was rugined, and, healthy granulations springing up, a cure was speedily accomplished. Forestus also operated in like manner on a similar case, and with the same result. Some further observations are recorded by Quesnay to prove the efHcacy of trephining in some cases of epilepsy, where the bone was the seat of the cause of the disease, or where matter was found beneath, to which we must refer the reader. (See also Guthrie, On Injuries of the Head, in which some cases of this description are related from various sources.) Mr. Curling performed the operation lately on a young man the subject of epileptic fits, and where pain was experienced on firm pressure at the part: no benefit eventually resulted. The bone presented no positive signs of disease. The effects of contusion are generally limited to the immediate scat of the injuiy, but the two following remarkable instances are mentioned by Hewett (loc. cit.) in which most extensive disease of all the skull-bones resulted from local contusion. A woman set. 48 fell down a stair and received various injuries, one on the head, which confined her to bed for some days. From this time her if''" u ^^^^ complained of fixed pain in the head, and had a disordered state of her stomach and bowels. She was able, however, to attend to the ordinary duties of her family till about three weeks before her death, when she was seized with tever and outrageous delirium. These symptoms subsided after a bleeding; and next day she had erysipelas of the face, which went oiT in a few days. Ohe was then able to be out of bed, but complained of fh u ^""^ 'l«ep-8eated pain on the right side (1 schL ""^"^^ there was a inuedTn t ""'""^ -^^r- Sl'e con- nued m this state, sitting up part of every day, till three days before her death, when she became comatose with partial paralysis of the left side, and frequent convulsive motions of the right arm She died on the third day after the occurrence of these symptoms. " The cranium was very easily opened, the bones being remarkably soft. On raising the skull-cap, the inner surface of the whole upper part of the cranium exhibited a singular state of disease. The inner table seemed to be wanting through its whole extent, and there appeared the rough, irregular, and cancellated structure of the central part of the bone. Jietwixt this surface and the dura mater there was the deposition of an adventitious membrane of a yellowish colour, varying from one twelfth to one eighth of an inch in thickness. In raising the skull- cap, this meriibrane, in some parts, adhered to the dura mater, leaving exposed the irregular cancel- lated structure of the bone; and, in other places, it adhered to the bone, exposing the dura mater, of its natural appearance. The parts affected by this singular- state of disease were the frontal bone above the orbits, the whole of both parietal bones, the squamous portion of both temporal bones, and ra- ther more than the upper half of the occipital bone. The greatest erosion was on the parietal bone, where several portions were very thin and transparent, and a few points were perforated. The external sur- face of the cranium was of a natural appearance, except at a few points where the erosion had per- forated the bones by very small apertures. The immediate cause of death was an extensive abscess, probably recent, which was found in the lower part of the right hemisphere of the brain." The next case alluded to is recorded by Mr.Drum- mond. "A sailor having fallen down a fl'iglit of stone steps received a contused wound of the scalp on the left side of the occipital bone. Some time afterwards a large piece of the bone was found denuded of its periosteum; he had repeated attacks of erj'sipelas, and within the space of six years he lost about five square inches of the right side of the frontal, parie- tal, and squamous part of temporal bones; the whole of the occipital to within a short space of the foramen magnum had disappeared, except a por- tion of the centre, of about two square inches, \yhich was detached and movable. A large por- tion of the left side of the frontal, parietal, and temporal bones was in a state of caries, and a por- tion of the posterior part of each parietal bone re- mained as a slender arch over the vertex. The man is now alive and in good health. In neither of the cases just mentioned does there appear to have I een any indication of a syphilitic constitutional taint." There is something very unusual in both cases, which implies a most unhealthy state of constitution; for It generally happens that the death of the bono is limited to the immediate seat of the original injury, and the process of exfoliation is confined to this part, without extending in .my degree to the adja- cent bones, whilst in the cases just quoted a slow and insidious disease had been set up, which led to the gradual and irregular destruction of a very large portion of the bones which form the vault of the skull, although it does not appear to have been confined to this part. At any rate, whatever the true explanation of the occurrence of these phenomena may bo, the cases are highly interest- ing, as showing to what extent disease originating in local injury may proceed, and for how long « time it may continue. Hence the necessity of