128 ANi^ iMIA. Tliis leads to the consideration of aiifcmia as a chronic disease produced by less direct causes, ope rating raore slowlj', and gradually diminishing tiie mass of blood in the bodj'. The raore important of these causes are, prolonged abstinence ; an ha- bitual deficiency of the staminal principles of nu- trition ; the absence of some element of the blood essential to cell-growth and haematoBis ; continued debility of the functions of primary digestion ; diseases of any of the organs or tissues by which the supply of materials, or the combination of the elements, or the production of the proximate prin- ciples and vital cells of the blood are effected ; or of the channels of conveyance ; and particularly diseases of the lungs, the liver, the pancreas and mesenteric glands ; continued subjection to various antihygienic influences, as a vitiated or insuffi- ciently renewed atmosphere, want of exercise, de- privation of the solar rays, the depressing passions, or any cause of depression of the nervous energies of sufficient duration to interfere with the processes of hajmatosis ; diseases attended with profuse dis- charges, acting as a drain to the constitution, as large abscesses or diabetes; sexual excesses, and the like Anjemia is often employed as a relative term, and we have no precise standard of the quantity of blood in the body, individuals of different consti- tutions have more or less in health, and some are habitually ana;mic; so that, whether pro- duced by voluntary or accidental direct loss, or by antihygienic causes, it is only by its effects that it becomes a disease. Well marked instances of chronic anmmia are however observable after large depletions employed in the treatment of acute dis- eases the loss of blood from accidents, and the draining of blood from repeated haemorrhages ; it is often found to prevail in large proportions of a population, in individuals subject to starvation and famine, and in masses of people residing in close dark localities, as in coal and other mines, and well marked instances are observable among various classes of operatives in our manufiicturing towns. Chronic anamia is occasionally produced mechani- cally by obstruction of the oesophagus or oi the thoracic duct. . ^, The symptoms of chronic anaemia, whether the insidious effect of small but frequently repeated losses of blood, visceral disease or antihygienic influences, are in most respects the reverse ot those which result from plethora. The blood, owing to the deficiency of red corpuscles, is deficient in its isiiat brjht red colour,^nd the an nial tissues generally reflect a much paler colour than natural. The capillaries are small or scarcely P«ceptible and the cutaneous veins pale and collapsed W hen a ligature is applied to the trunks in the limbs the veins become slowlv distended ; they are also readily emptied by friction and slowly rehlleU. The countenance and integuments generally are blanched and waxy, the conjunctiva is pale and its capillary vessels disappear altogether, the mu- cous membranes are pale, particularly in the pro- 1-ibia the gums, the mouth and fauces, and the t'onA'te The action of the heart is feeble, the milse weak, small, in extreme cases scarcely to be Lit readily quickened by mental or physical ex- ritants anil often lluttering or palpitatu.g with a 8ha"p in p.ilBO, quite distinct from the steady strong • 1 (• l.vnertronhy. Tliere is a sense of sink- ir ve ^"Se may occur followed by Sit.a!lon, o; quickly assuming the erect posture. Hajmatic mumiirs are produced in various parts of the vascular system; they may be heard with the stethoscope, or even with the naked ear, espe- cially over the base of the heart and the large vessels at the root of the neck, but their diag- nostic value must not be too highly estimated, as they are observable in impoverished states of the blood where no degree of emptiness exists, and in manj' cases are produced solely bj' external pressure on the parietes of the weak and easily compressible vessels, diminishing the calibre of the tubes. Tiie respiration is short, feeble, and easily hurried. The animal heat is ill sustained, and the surface and extremities are below the natural temperature. There is great nervous sensibility with intolerance of light and sound, scintillations, and other amaurotic symptoms, tinnitus auriura, muscular debility, slight efforts producing fatigue, with languor, tremors, and want of capacity for sustained exertion. There is great debility of the functions of the stomach with deficiency of gastric juice, loss of appetite, occasional nausea, cardialgia, costiveness or irregularity of bowels, flatulent dis- tension, and other symptoms of dyspepsia. The urine and secretions generally are pale and watery, and in females the menstrual fluid is pale and scanty. To these symptoms are often added others which depend on reaction, such as palpitations and tlirobbings, and extremely severe headaches : and in extreme cases most of the effects of direct loss of blood supervene, extremely hurried and op- pressed breathing, gasping, tremors, spasms, con- vulsions, and coma. When of long continuance, general atrophy is the usual concomitant of ana;mia, the blood also becomes in a remarkable degree hydrfemic, giving rise to another train of eftects, such as cedema, dropsical effusions, and softening of the tissues and internal organs, as of the brain, or to diarrhoja and profuse perspirations; the diminished tone of the vital solids and of the ex- halant orifices, and the poverty of the blood ex- plaining many of these eftects. Anreraia predis- poses to hysteria, epilepsy, chorea, and other nervous affections, and may arrive in various ways at a fatal termination. The patient is often carried off in a fit of syncope, or convulsions, or coma, or may sink more gradualljs exhausted, with effu- sions in the lungs, pericardium, brain, or abdomen. When death occurs, the heart itself the arteries and veins are almost empt}', containing only a sano-uineoHS serum ; the tissues and organs are all palfid ; little or no blood flows from the parts di- vided, and the viscera generally are comparatively bloodless. ' ,. ■ i Thus anremia not only occurs after accidimts and operations attended with loss of blood, but may precede them. It is found during conva- lescence after acute affections, particularly where active depletion has been resorted to; it may com- plicate any surgical disease, and the statements m this article show the importance of attending to the condition of the system as respects the qu.-inti > of blood contained in the vessels, especially in relation to blood-letting and depleting measures generally. Both inflammation and Ik'u o. 1 nge occurring in a state of general f^'^'^^^';^^ unfavourable tendency, owing not o"'/ ' f'^^J;. liciencv of blood but also to the defect e reac tionary process and the low degree of m .Hi0 the plLtic materials derived from the b «od. i '« blood of anaMuic subjects cannot be spaied. iSlo.e