1 i which the patient's age is given, we find only one case which occurred as early as fourteen. Of the remaining eighteen cases, four only occurred in persons under fifty ; of tlie remaining fourteen, ten were met with between fifty and sixty, and four in the next decennial period. The immediate exciting cause of the disease is most commonly involved in obscurity, sometimes it may be traced to a blow on the head, a fall or concussion, or to excessive drinking; but more fre- quently the symptoms manifest themselves sud- denlj',. without being in any way attributable to such external influences, and occur in vigorous and apparently healthy persons. The pressure exercised by an aneurismal sac situated within the cranium is almost exclusively directed against the yielding cerebral substance, which is often extensively disorganised; the bones of the skull, however close their proximity to the sac may be, frequently escaping, and seldom suffering much. _Thi3_peculiarity in the effects of aneurism in this situation may be partly owing to the very dense and compact chara-'.er of the inner table of the skull, but is, doubtless, principally due to the very soft and yielding nature of the contents of the cranium. Absorption of the subjacent bone, how- ever, sometimes takes place to a limited extent: thus in one case the body of the sphenoid bone was indented and partially absorbed. The parts compressed will necessarily vary ac- cording to the situation of the tumor; but those that principally suffer are those seated at the base of the brain, and forming the floor of the lateral ventricles. In Moore's case one of the optic nerves was flattened by the pressure of the substance of the anterior lobe, the laminae perforated the roots of the olfactory tract, the anterior part of the corpus striatum, and a considerable quantity of the neigh- bouring white matter of the anterior lobe was re- moved. In a case by Dr. Eager (Ranking, vol. vi.) the portio dura of the right side was paralysed from this cause. In Mr. Smith's case {Duh.Journ. vol. XXV.), the floor of the ventricle, the tuber cinereum, and origin of the optic nerve suffered. Rupture of the sac usually takes place by a gra- dual thinning of one part of it, which at last gives way by a rent or fissure, the blood being effused either at the base of the brain into the arachnoid cavity and the meshes of the pia mater, or into the lateral ventricles, either directly, or by breaking through an intervening portion of cerebral substance. Besides the changes that take place in the cere- bral substance as the result of pressure, important lesions may be met with as the effect of the inter- niption that the pressure of the aneurism offers to the circulation in, nnd nutrition of, the cerebral hemispheres. Thus in the case of aneurism of both internal car^itids that has already been referred to as occurring at University College Hospital, there was white softening of both the anterior cerebral loljes, and tins lesion was most marked on that side that corresponded to the largest aneurism, nnd wliere consequently it may bo supposed the greatest amount of obstruction to the circulation existed. The symptoms of aneurism within the cranium are extremely equivocal, and indeed aneurisms of largo size may exist at the base of the brain without occasioning any symptoms whatever. An interesting instance of this occurred at University College Hospital in l!M!i. A m;m, fifty-seven years of age, died of pulmonnry apoplexy nnd ANEURISM. 221 chronic pneumonia of the left lung, consequent upon the pressure of an aneurism of the commencement of the descending aorta on the pulmonary veins of that side. On examining the head after death, an aneurism of the basilar artery as large as a hazel nut was met with, of iwhich no suspicion had been entertained during life, there having been no head symptoms whatever. The sac of the aneurism was very thin, and there was much atheroma in the vertebrals. The only symptoms that are of constant occur- rence when this disease goes on to a fatal termi- nation, are those of hemiplegia and apoplexy. These may come on suddenly without any previous warning, or may be preceded by a train of phe- nomena indicative of the existence of chronic dis- ease within the cranial cavity. The most constant of these symptoms is pain, which offers, however, great variety, in seat, extent and character. It may be diffused or occupy a fixed point; it may be continuous or intermitting ; increased by movement, accompanied by peculiar sensations, such as pulsation or of opening and shutting of the top of the cranium. The sight and hearing are often impaired ; dim- ness of sight, dilatation of one or both pupils, photophobia, diplopia, and loss of vision have been noticed in several of the cases recorded. Ptosis may likewise be met with. Buzzing noises in the ears and deafness are also not uncommon symptoms. Deafness more particularly appears to be of fre- quent occurrence. The patient rarely loses the power of articulation and of deglutition; imperfect speech and dysphagia have however occurred. There may be paralysis of the side of the face, shakmg palsy, or complete hemiplegia, or fits of an epileptic nature may occur. The mental condition may undergo changes indicative of chronic disease of the brain. There may be depression of spirits, listlessness, or, as was noticed in the case above related, the temper may become irritable, and the patient may be garrulous or silly. Insanity has been noticed in one case, and, as is usually the case in cerebral affections, the gastric functions are often impaired. But very frequently no premonitory symptoms of any kind manifest themselves, the patient being suddenly seized, when apparently in good health, with apoplexy, which terminates rapidly in death. In some cases the presence of the aneurism has been detected by a rough " whizzing" noise being heard on the application of the stethoscope over one side of the bead, and perhaps bein<f audible to the patient. This sign, however, occm's in but few cases, but when it does occur is unquesliouablv the inost pathognomonic of all. I am not aware that It has been met with in any form of ccrebml' disease except intracranial aneurism. Thus it will be seen by a rofereiico to this list of symptoms that, with the exception of the wlnzznig noise, no special signs are alVorded bv aneurisms within the skull which will enable us to distinguish between the symptoms occasioned ly their presence, and those of other tumors of the brain, and of organic cerebral disease. The fatal termination may occur from one of lour causes :— 1. The tumor may exorcise such pressure upon the whole cerebral mass as to occasion death. 'J'his mode of termination is rare, and I am only ac- .12 ^