SGi DISLO( suddenly tent to tlie utmost, and the motion was hardly completed when the patella audibly re- turned to its socket. {Lond. Med. Gax. 1828, vol. ii. P..754.)]. Dislocation inwards. — [Displacement of the patella in this direction is exceedingly rare; so much so, that two or three observations only have been recorded. In Sir Astley Cooper's work is mentioned the case of a lady who frequently dislo- cated her right patella inwards, by touching her toe against a carpet, by turning in bed, or dancing. She was in the habit of replacing it herself by straiglitening the limb, and by pressing it towards the joint with her thumb. The pain was exces- sive, and she was unable to move when it was out. {On Dislocations, <5'c. edited hy B. Cooper, p. 196.) The following case is narrated by Mr. Aston Key: — A young woman, ajt. 20, slipped and fell whilst carrying a pail. On attempting to rise from the ground she found that her left knee was painful, and was unable to bear her weight. She was taken to Guy's Hospital, and the patella was found resting upon the inner condyle, the outer part of its articular surface being supported ob- liquely by the projecting edge of the trochlea of the femur. Gentle pressure on the inner edge of the patella, as the limb lay on the bed, restored it to its natural position. The joint, however, became inflamed, suppuration took place within and around it, and the patient died. (Guj/''s Hosp. Reports, vol. i. p. 260.) In this instance the dislocation was incomplete. M. Putegnat has recorded a case of complete dislocation inwards of both patellae. The subject of it was a girl, IS^ years old. Three years pre- viously she had fallen on her knees, and from that moment both patellae had become subject to dis- placement, so much so, that she was in the habit of amusing herself by dislocating and reducing them. The right patella was most easily dis- placed outwards, the left inwards, but both could be thrown so completely inwards that their anterior surfaces became parallel, and could be applied exactly one against the other when the knees were brought together. This case, though traumatic originallj'', appears 'rather to represent a disloca- tion from relaxation of ligaments, and was con- sidered as such by M. Putegnat. (See Journ. de Chir. 1843, p. 307; and Malgaigne, loc. cit. p. 919.) A preparation in the museum at Berlin, described by Walther, is referred to by M. Malgaigne as an example of dislocation inwards, but whether com- plete or incomplete, is not very clear from the description. The preparation is further remarkable from the circumstance of the leg being flexed to a right angle with the thigh (loc. cit, p. 91.)] [Vertical dislocation of the patella.—In this form of displacement the patella undergoes a semi- revolution upon its axis, and rests by one of its edges upon the anterior surface of the femur. It is more common to find it resting upon its inner edge, with the articular surface directed outwards, but several cases of displacement upon its outer edge have also been recorded. M. Malgaigne has named these two varieties the external vertical and internal vertical dislocations. In either case the outer or inner angle of the patella rests in the supra-condy- loid depression on the front of tlie femur, in which it is more or less firmly wedged by the contraction of the extensor muscles. It may be observed, that an exaggeration of the oblique position assumed by the patella in the partial dislocation outwards would produce the external vertical dislocation. Tlio knee is extended, or very slightly flexed,' and all attempts at movement are attended with severe pain. The nature of the case will be readily seen by the remarkable projection in front of the knee, and by the sharp edge of the patella, which can be dis- tinctly felt through the skin. It may not be s easy to discover in which direction the bone ha- been displaced, and whether it is its inner or its outer edge which is turned forwards; but an ex^ amination of the ligamentum patellae and of the extensor tendon, which will have become twisted by the movement of the patella, and which wil have their inner or their outer edges raised, accord ing to the direction in which the bone has beci. displaced, will usually settle the question. These dislocations, like those already described, maj' be caused either by a blow on the patella, or by some sudden and violent muscular effort. Reduction.—The reduction of these displace- ments has sometimes been accomplished readily by pressure with the fingers, the limb having been pre- viously placed in such a position as to relax the extensor muscles. Sometimes, however, great dif- ficulty has beeu met with, and other manoeuvres have become necessary. Mr. Vincent succeeded in two cases, after other methods had failed, by slightly flexing the knee and rotating the leg. (Obs. on Surg. Practice, p. 75.) Forcible flexion of the knee has also succeeded in some instances. In obstinate cases, subcutaneous section of the liga- mentum patellas has been practised, but even this has proved unavailing. In one case, even after the division of the ligamentum patellae and exten- sor tendon, the bone remained as immovable as ever. This patient died from diseased knee-joint and abscesses in the thigh thirty-one months after the accident. The patella was found ankylosed by its edge to the extremity of the femxir. (See Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations, edited hy B. Cooper, p. 199.) M. Malgaigne mentions two cases in which the bone was successfully replaced by means of an elevator introduced into the joint through a lateral opening in the capsule. A case in which the patella had undergone com- plete revolution upon its axis, was observed by M. Castara, and is related by Malgaigne. The bone had been twisted round from within outwards, so that its articular surface was turned forwards, and the two articular facets could be recognised through the skin. The tendon of the ex.ensors and the ligamentum patella; formed above and be- low a thick, hard rounded cord. M. Castara seized the patella between his thumb and forefinger, and b)"^ a movement of rotation from behind forwards and from without inwards, gently turned it round into its place. The reduction took place slowl}^ and the movement of the bone could be distinctly followed, so that there was no doubt that its posi- tion had been completely reversed by the acci- dent. Two other cases of the same kind, excepting that the bone had been turned round in the oppo- site direction, or from without inwards, are referred to by M. Malgaigne, but there is some doubt as to their authenticity. (See Traiti des Fract. t. ii. pp. 918, 921.)]