\ ersity Coll, Hospital, for compound fracture from railway injury. Anterior and posterior flaps. Died same evening. {Lancet, vol. i. 18.^.5, p. 363.) In July, 1855, by Mr. Tatum, in St. George's Hospital, for malignant disease of tho femur. Large anterior and smaller posterior flap. Successful. (Lancet, vol. ii. 1855, p. 77.) In March, 1856, by Mr, Curling, in the Lon- don Hospital, for malignant disease of the femur. Anterior and posterior flaps. Successful. Died ten mouths afterwards from chest disease, not malignant. {Lancet, vol, i, 1857, p. 6.) In October, 1856", by Mr. Hancock, at the Charing Cross Hospital, for extensive necrosis of femur. Anterior and posterior flaps. Successful. {Med. Times and Gax. Jan. 1857, p. 114.) In March, 1857, by Mr. Stanle)', in St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital, for malignant disease. Short anterior, long posterior flaps. Death in two hours. {Lancet, vol. i. 1857, p. 343.) In Sept. 1857, by Mr. Lane, in St. Mary's Hos- pital, for compound fracture from railway injury. Short anterior, long posterior flap. Death same evening. Thus we have had, since 1838, nineteen cases, with eight recoveries and eleven deaths. Thirteen of these were for various chronic diseases, and eight out of the thirteen recovered. The results of the ope- ration, therefore, when undertaken for disease, have latterly been of a decidedly encouraging character. Unfortunately, however, the reverse has been as decidedly the case when it has been undertaken for injury. The remaining six cases were for this cause, and the whole of them were fatal. Three of these were primary, and three were secondary amputations. Equally unfortunate have been the results of the operation during the late war. Four- teen amputations at the hip-joint were performed by British surgeons in the Crimea, and the whole fourteen died. The French, however, according to Dr. Macleod, had one case of recovery at the hos- pital at Pera, in the winter of 1854. (Ed. Med. Jour. June, 1856, p. 1083.) Three more cases, all unsuccessful, occurred in the Punjab cam- paigns in 1848-9. (See MeBae, Ind. Annals of Med. Science, April, 1857, p. 663.) The mode of operation now generally practised is that with anterior and posterior flaps. It may sometimes be modified by making the anterior flap larger than the posterior, which, when practicable, is probably an improvement, because the flap falls by its own weight over the wound, and the discharge will escape with greater facility. The long anterior flap is recommended by M. Baudens. (Bourgiry, Med. Optr. vol. i. p. 273.) M. A. Gudrin sug- gests that the posterior flap may be made more even and regular by cutting from without inwards. For this purpose, after the disarticulation is com- pleted, the knife should be carried under the limb to divide the integuments and rem.aining muscles from the surface upwards towards the wound. (Med. Opcr. t, i. p. 191.) Mr. Skey recommends two flaps to bo formed from the integuments only, with a circular division of the muscles after the flaps have been reflected back. {Op. Surg. p. 357.) This latter plan has not yet, we believe, been carried out in practice. It is customary to employ about half a dozen interrupted sutures to maintain the edges of the flaps in .apposition.] No one can expect, however, this operation not to fail in a large proportion of the cases in which it AMPUTATION. 119 is attempted: this must always happen, let it be done in the most skilful manner possible. Yet, as there are unquestionably some descriptions of injury, where life must inevitably be lost if this proceeding be rejected, and experience proves that it some- times answers, an important consideration is, what cases are most proper for it ? Here I am decidedly of opinion, with Professor Thomson, that the ex- amples in which it is particularly called for, and where no delay should be suffered, are those in which the head or neck of the thigh-bone has been fractured by a musket-ball, grape-shot, or small piece of shell. Eight or ten such cases, where amputation ought to have been done in the first instance, were brought in waggons several days after the assaxilt on Bergen-op-Zoom into the hos- pital superintended by myself at Oudenbosch, and not one of these patients lived ten days after their removal. In the whole course of my professional life, I have never elsewhere witnessed so much suffering, or suppuration in such profusion. From each limb, at least three or four pints of matter were discharged daily. Had amputation at the hip been performed at first, some of these patients might possibly have been saved ; at all events, I am certain that it was their only chance. Larrey deems the operation proper, where the thigh has been shot off high up, or where the femur and soft parts near the hip have been broken, and extensively lacerated by a cannon-ball or pieces of shell. Here the operation (though perhaps the only chance) must almost always fail, because, as Professor Thomson observes, these injuries occasion a shock to the constitution, of which the patient mostly sinks either immediately, or in a few hours. {Ohs. made in the Mil. Hosp. in Belgium, p. 274.) The truth of this observation I saw exemplified at Merxhem, near Antwerp, at the bombardment of the French fleet in that port ; a shell burst between the thighs of one of the guards ; tore and lacerated two-thirds of the thickness of the upper part of the right thigh ; broke the ascending ramus of the ischium ; lacerated the perineum and scrotum ; and fractured the higher part of the femur. There' was no hemorrhage of consequence ; but the exposed lacerated surface of the soft parts was immense, and the unfortunate soldier, who lay with his hairs standing erect, and bereft of his intellectual faculties sunk in the course of a quarter of an hour into a state of insensibility, and was quite dead in twenty minutes. However, there are numerous cases, in which the patients, after dreadful injuries of the upper part of the thigh, are less depressed and overcome, and live several weeks; facts clearly provmg, that the operation ought to be attempted Many instances of this kind are related bv Mr' Guthrie. (On Gunshot Woumls,^. 134, &c ) fMr' Guthrie thinks « It may be laid down as a prin- ciple, in all cases of accident, whether from shot, shell, or railway carriages, that no man should suff-er amputation at the hip-joint when the thigh- bone is entire. It should never be done in cases of injury where the bone can be sawn immediately below the trochmitor major, and suflicient flans can be preserved to close the wound thus made An injury warranting this operation should extend to the neck or head of the bone, and it may be possible even then to avoid it by removinir the broken parts," {Lance/, vol. i. 1852, p. 555.)J Bad and incurable disease of the upper part of the femur (not the scrofulous hip, nor any other example in I t