HEAD, INJl ■RIES OF THE. 919 3 n4 notice, in which convulsions occurred, saw them cease immediately after the elevation of the bone. Convulsions accompanying pressure may Bome- times depend on the want of a due supply of blood to the brain from the impeded circulation through the circle of Willis, and would therefore come un- der the same category as those instances of epilep- tiform convulsions occurring after ligature of one or other of the carotid arteries. These attacks always happen on the corresponding side. But whether convulsions depend on pressure or on cerebral irritation, the fact remains the same, namely, that if they accompany paralysis resulting from pressure, the paralysis occurs on the opposite side, and the convulsions on the same side as the injury. This is very difficult to account for. Can the same cause produce effects so different ? Most probably not. We cannot help believing that in most cases there are two causes in operation as the result of the injury when such a combination of circumstances happens, and that these causes are found acting on opposite sides of the brain: possibly it may happen that where effusion has occurred on one side to such an extent as to induce paralysis of the opposite side of the body, some slight eflfu- sion has happened into the cineritiousneurine of the other side, which induces convulsions ; and that these convulsions would affect all the muscles be- longing to the voluntary system of one side equally with the other, if the paralysed muscles were not incapable of being convulsed. The subject is in- volved in much intricacy, and I refer the reader to observations of Hakemeand and Flourens, which are detailed in the second volume of Mliller's Phy- siology, p. 840, &c., translated by Baly. The circulatory system is evidently affected more or less in compression of the brain, as is shown by the remarkable sinking of the pulse in frequency, whilst the heart retains its original power, as is exemplified by what is ordinarily termed a sloio labouring pulse; this is regarded as almost charac- teristic of compression. It is true the pulse is Bometimes intermittent under pressure on the brain, as Dr. J. Thomson remarks ; but, nevertheless, most authorities, as Abernethy, Brodie, and Guth- rie, consider the slow labouring pulse as the pecu- liar pulse of pressure from whatever cause. How- ever, it frequently happens that in most extensive effusions of blood on the brain, especially just prior to death, the pulse is increased in frequency, and becomes intermittent. In children there is a diminished frequency in compression, as in the adult; but the pulse, under the age of ten years, rarely sinks below fifty. The effect is very similar when all commu- nication between the brain and spinal cord is destroyed by section under experiment, or by de- struction of a portion of the spinal marrow from a fracture of the spine, if this occurs in the lower cervical or upper dorsal region. Whether the pres- sure arises from depressed bone or from effusion of blood upon the brain, the effect is similar. Brodie remarked in one instance that the pulse increased in frequency twenty beats in one minute as the pressure was removed by operation. In another case the pulse, before imperceptible, became dis- tinct and beat with considerable strength as the bono was raised. If blood is abstracted from the arm in any large quantity, under pressure from ex- travasation, the pulse often begins to sink most rapidly; whilst in the struggling of the patient during the operation of trephining, it becomes at first remarkably accelerated, and then sinks as rapidly in power and frequency, so that it is often impossible to judge by the pulse of the effects of the operation. The pulse usually remains in the same state until the cause of pressure is removed, and the heart's action will often continue sluggish after many of the other signs of pressure have disappeared. The nerves of organic life are in- fluenced indirectly in cerebral compression, and a constipated state of the bowels shows clearly that the muscular coat of the intestines throughout their whole course is destitute of a due supply of nervous influence. Although the respiratory fimctions, both in their mechanical and chemical actions, proceed with great regularity in milder cases, yet in cases of greater severity it is not so ; the stertorous breathing, the prolonged respiratory effort, the raucous rattle in the trachea and air cells, and the altered colour of the blood itself from want of due aeration and consequent oxygenation, show clearly how powerfully the whole respiratory system is affected by the paralysing influence of cerebral compression on the par vagura. When the arteries of the scalp are divided by accident or during the operation of trephining, the blood escapes of a dull venous hue, and it often changes to its proper arte- rial character as the pressure is removed. Treatment.—If the symptoms of pressure are fairiy attributable to the depressed bone, the trephine, Hey's saw, or the elevator must be employed. In a case of simple depression of re- cent occurrence, and where doubtful signs of pres- sure exist, it is prudent to adopt the advice of Pott, and wait some time to see whether the symptoms may not be attributable to concussion, in which case they gradually pass away. Hence it is far better to pause, as, under the employment of brisk mercurial purgatives, cold applications, and the occasional resort to bleeding from the arm or by leeches, the symptoms may all gradually disap- pear and leave no effect behind. If, on the con- trary, the symptoms increase in intensity, the depressed bone should be immediately raised. The distinction between compression from de- pressed bone and from hajmorrhage on the surface of the dura mater is not always apparent, although, as a general rule, it will be found that in the former case they appear at once, and continue without any decided increase in intensity until the bone is raised, whilst in the latter they come on gradually and afterwards increase rapidly in intensity; but there are many exceptions to this rule, and we have seen a fatal cITusion upon the dura mater with only slight symptoms of insensibility, and these by no means increasing to the termination of the life of the patient. Where any doubt exists as to tho precise seat of the pressure, that unerring sign, hemiplegia, on the side opposite becomes a valuable diagnostic mark, and consequently suggests the proper line of practice to be pursued. It is quite evident from cases already related that the operation may in some cases be almost indefinitely postponed, and may be performed with every prospect of success at a period remote from the first indication of pressure. After the bone is raised, the sensorial functions are either immediately restored, or the recovery takes place more gradually, but not tho less per-