dependent on that of the contained matter, which IS besides semi-transparent, tenacious, and clammy, and resembles, in respect of density, as of other physical properties, soft jelly. It is not easily ex- pressible from the containing lociili, but may be picked out with the point of a scalpel, or removed by maceration." Uniformity of appearance, in different parts of the mass, is considered, by this author, as a remarkable character of this structure Mr. Paget and Rokitansky give a somewhat dif. ierent account. The former says, "when the hbrous texture is predominant, it forms a very tough, white, fascia-like mass, in which are small separate cysts or cavities filled with the colloid substance. In the opposite extreme large masses ot the colloid substance appear, only intersected by fibrous white cords, or thin membranes, arranged as in areolar tissue, or in a wide-meshed network. Ihese extremes often exist in different parts of the same mass. The form of colloid growths is either rounded, or flattened, with a tuberous surface J. he latter feature seems to depend on the promi- nence of alveoli tensely tilled with gelatinous matter. When colloid growths exist on the peritoneal surface, one of their commonest habitats, they may project considerably into the serous cavity, and the latter may even contain prodigious quantities of free colloid matter, which has prolapsed out of the alveoli on their dehiscence. Rokitansky describes the framework of a colloid growth, taking, for instance, one ot the intestinal canal, as a small-meshed net- work with thick septa at its attachment to the submucous tissue; the septa becoming slenderer and the meshes wider towards the surface, till at last the former terminate by free extremities. The enclosed meshes, or areolae, communicate freely with one another, and are compared by Lebert to the pulmonary air-cells. The septal tissue appears as of horaogeneo-fibrous material, and contains elongated nuclei, and sometimes elastic fibres The colloid, gelatinoid contents of the areolae pre- sent a good deal of variety. Rokitansky describes CANCER. 387 them as consisting of structureless vesicles V 250-125 J diameter, surrounded by a clear, often laminated, colloidal matter imbedding elongated or fibre-developing nuclei, and presenting Itself a kind of wavy fibrillation in some cases. In this matter are also seen cells with very large nuclei developing into clear vesicles. The large vesicles contain a cell-growth, which may be very manifest indeed (as m Dr. Bennett's drawings, fig. 136), or ainiost absent. In the latter case, the cells have probably fused down into the colloid jelly, which seems to exist in a ratio inverse to that of the shaped elements. Lebert mentions cells lying free in the colloid substance, or large brood-cells (filled with endogenous cell-growth), or mere colloid jolly as forming the contents of the alveoli of the stroma' Fattily degenerating cells (glomeruli) are seen both within and without the large vesicles. One very peculiar arrangement is described and figured by Rokitansky, in which the stromal septa send off hol- low clavate processes, in the interior of which colloid matter and structureless vesicles are produced. The stroma may even extend so as to form a ; pedicle of some length, at the extremity of which a small pouch-shaped or granulated mass of colloid • growth IS developed (see Rokil. figs. J14, 120) > Certain changes, in all probability of the nature of degenerations, occur in the colloid substance. Cru- veilhier has noticed a pearl-like condition of the cell-contents, and another in which they are opaque, yellowish and tallow-like, with granular fracture and feel, and the chemical constitution of casein. Fatty transformation, together with depo- sit of yellow pigment, such as occurs in the other cancers, would produce very much such appear- ances. The pearly aspect probably depends on the presence of cholesterine. A very unequivocal affinity subsists between colloid cancer and cystic formation, sufficient al- most to warrant the adoption of the terra " cystic cancer," which has been proposed for the former. Mr. Paget alludes to the existence of a cystic form of medullary cancer, in which the cysts are so numerous " that the tumor appears almost wholly composed of them, the cancerous structure only filling^ die interstices between their close-packed walls. Between this condition and that of colloid there is evidently no very wide difference. On the other hand, we easily pass from cancerous colloid structure to similar formations whose cancerous cha- racter is quite, or well nigh, effaced. Rokitansky says that his third form of colloid occurs especially in the bones and in the ovaries. In the former the growths are very often numerous; in the latter' commonly single. Frerichs and Virchow would erase ovarian colloid from the list of cancers, and in this I would certainly agree. If, however, it seem to some to stand on the border ground of cancer (which I do not deny), a step further brings us to the gelatinoid connective tissue Cem- I'ryonal) tumors, of which a good case is re- 1 «1 °f *he Pathol. Soc. for IBS*, p. ol9, or to the cystic disease of the thyroid gland which no one would rank amonff malignant conditions. «."uuug The truly cancerous nature of colloid growths as above described, seems to me well established by the following enumeration of the features which It has in common with the cancer family " It» seats of election are remarkably those in wiiich the medullary cancers are, at the same time of life most apt to occur." It «infiltrates, and at length supersedes and replaces by substitution, the natural tissues of the affected part." " It is ^rone to ex- tend and repeat itself in lymphatic glands, the lungs, and other parts near to or distant from its primary seat." It " is often associated with other forms of cancer in the same mass, or in different tumors in the same person; it appears as apt as any other form to recur after removal; it may be derived hereditarily from a parent having scirrhous cancer, or a parent with colloid may have offsnrina with medullary cancer." According t„ lK sex has no special influence in determining the appearance of colloid. It occurs mostiv in middle period of life and is very .2tl,m.^l It more slowly al ects the lymphatics, and the organs distant from its primary seat," than medul- lary cancer. « I„ general, its symptoms in oa part correspond with those of other cancers affect ing the same part." Rokitansky says tha tJie marasmus (cachexia) ensuing on colloid cancer agrees in us stamp with the cancerous, but pre' sents notable diflcrencos according to the deoree or form. Thus it is less in the\aIveolar S appears late in ovarian cystic colloid, but is early "nd rapidly developed in colloid of the bones especially when the tumors are multiple cc2