f . . , GUNSHOT WOUNDS, description are all capable of exnlanatmn w reference to the laws of projectiles. ' ^ ,J'^^l^°l''Sf'iefemaikB apply to wounds made by tbe spherical bullet. The conical balls used so extensivelym the Crimean and more recent cam- paigns, inflict a much more severe and dangerous wound than the old round bullet. " Usually they admitted of being very little deflected from their course, piercing bones and generally perforating the limb, sometimes even wounding several men. Conical bullets, from their wedge-like action, have the peculiar tendency to produce longitudinal frac- tures of the bones of the extremities of very considerable extent; sometimes, indeed, runninc through the whole length of a bone. The greater weight of the conical bullet was partly a cause of Its increased power of injury. " The conical bullets of the Russians dilFered con- siderably from either the old Minig ball with the iron cap, or the Enfield rifle bullet of the British army. They used three forms. The heaviest and largest weighed 840 grains, and was a solid mass of lead with three flanges near the flat base and tapering to a sharp apex. The second was less weighty and without flanges, but had a hollow in the base to admit of its expansion. The third had neither flange nor hollow at the base. All were considerably heavier than the Enfield rifle bullet which only weighs 580 grains. Of all these bul- Jets, the worst and most dangerous wounds ap- peared to be inflicted by the British old-fashioned Minid bullet with the iron cap. The cap some- times had the efi-ect of splaying out the ball on its encountering an obstacle, and thus much increasing tlie extent of the parts brought into direct contac" with the missile. Next in destructive power would appear to be the largest Russian ball, but this, the Enfield rifle ball, and the two other va- rieties of conical ball above mentioned, diff'ered but little in this particular. When these bullets came m contact with the shaft of a long bone, they gene- rally produced a compound comminuted fracture of a ver}' serious nature. In the case of the femur, the comminution was very generally so extensive as to render amputation necessary. The round balls much more frequently lodged, and the fractures of long bones produced by them were usually much less comminuted and less extensively split than by the conical bullet." {Medical and Surgical His- tory of British Army in the Crimea.)'^ Dupuytren observes, nothing is more diversified and extraordinary than the course of projectiles amidst the textures of the bod3'. In 1830, a combatant, on the Pont d'Arcole, was struck by a ball, which entered at the internal angle of the Jeft eye; and the wound, which took a direction backwards, and rather to the right, seemed as if it had gone quite through the head. However, the ball, after passing below the cranium, made its exit above the right shoulder. The man soon recovered, without any dangerous symptoms. Ano- ther man was wounded in the head, on the Pont Notre Dame; the ball went through his hat, travel- led along the right side of the nose, penetrated the npperhp, broke four of the upper teeth, fractured ttie lower jaw, came out behind the chin, entered ngani at the root of the neck behind the clavicle, ■ lodged in the cushion of the left shoulder. (ill J^r "lil; -^'"^ °^ inflammation of the chest When there is only one opening, we m.iy infer that the wound contains a foreign body. An ex- ception to this observation occurs, however when a ball, instead of tearing the clothes, or linen carries a portion of them, in the form of a pouch' into the wound, and, when such portion of the clothes IS withdrawn, the ball falls out; and if this circumstance be not noticed, the presence of a smgle opening may lead to the idea that the bullet is lodged in the part. An instance of this kind IS cited by Pare, for the purpose of refuting the former notion, that the ball burnt the parts. A case, m which a piece of a shirt was carried in this manner four inches into the flesh, is mentioned by Mr Gaithrie. (p. 4. ed. 6.) [A deep hole may be made in the soft parts and bone by the projecting angle of a fragment of shell without its remaining in the wound, and lead to the supposition that it was caused by a bullet which has become lod<^ed in the part. An instance of this occurred before bebastopol in the shaft of the tibia.] In 1814, a French soldier, wounded under the walls of Paws, was brought to the Hotel-Dieu On examining the upper part of the leg, Dupuy- tren found some cloth forced into the tibia • and on pulling it out, which required considerable ettort, a ball was extracted, completely enveloped m a piece of gaiter. Amongst the wounded brought into La Pitie',in July, 1830, was one case in which a ball had penetrated the abdomen, pro- pelling before it a portion of the shirt which was not torn, and served very usefully to facilitate the extraction of the projectile. (See Dnpiiylren, in Chn Chir. t. ii. p. 426.) It is possible also for a ball to be stopped immediately it has entered the body, and then to be ejected by the elasticity of the parts against which it strikes, as the cartilages of the ribs. {Guthrie, p. 5, ed. 6.) When there are two apertures made by one shot, the ball, or at all events a portion of it has escaped ; but pieces of the clothes, &c. may still be lodged in the part. Care must be taken, how- ever, not to confound with these cases others in which the plurality of openings has been made'by difi^erent balls. ^ "It is no uncommon thing (observes Dr. J Thomson) for a ball, in striking against the sharp edge of a bone, to be split into two pieces, each of which takes a different direction. Sometimes It happens that one of the pieces remains in the place which it struck, while the other continues its course through the body. Of a ball split by the edge of the patella, I have known one half pass through at the moment of the injury, and the other remain in the joint for months, without its presence there being suspected. In the same manner, I have known a ball divided by striking against t'he spine of the scapula, and one portion of it pass directly through the cliest from the point of impulse, while the other moved along the integu- ments till it reached the elbow-joint. But the most frequent examples of the division of bullets, which we had occasion to see, were those which were produced by balls striking against the sphe- rical surface of the cranium. It sometimes happens that one portion of the ball enters the cranium, while the other either remains without, or passes over its external surface. [Or, a ball may be split against the edge of a fracture in the cranium, and one portion enter without leaving an opening, the depressed portion of bone rising into its place again. An interesting e-vnmple