980 HERNIA. Anat. p. 24, obs. 21.) Ariiaud himself, to whom modern surgery is highly indebted for many im- portant precepts on the operation for the stran- gulated crural hernia in both sexes, candidly confesses that he had never bad an opportunity of dissecting a hernia of this kind in the male sub- ject." {Scarpa, Traiti des Hernies, p. 201.) Scarpa had at his disposal a male subject, in which there was a crural hernia, and he availed himself of tlie opportunity of examining the parts with the utmost care. He first injected the blood- vessels ; he afterwards attentively dissected all the parts concerned in the disease ; and he has pub- lished an exact description of the particulars, illus- trated by an engraving. According to Hesselbach the femoral hernia, thougli not common in men, is more frequent than is generally believed, and often overlooked, on account of its being very small. {Ueber den (Jr- spning, Sfc. der Leisten-und-ScIienhelbruclie, p. 47.) Thus, in an example published in a modern work, an inguinal and femoral hernia were met with together in a gentleman sixty-three years of age. On examination of the body after death, a small piece of intestine, forming a crural hernia, was found strangulated, and concealed under an in- guinal rupture and a mass of fat. {Sir C, Bell's Surgical Obs. vol. i. p. 187.) Mr. Lawrence states that the femoral rupture is not so uncommon in men, as several authors would lead us to suppose. He has seen many in- stances of it. {On Ruptures, p. 409, note, ed. 4.) Dr. Breschet, it seems, has also seen as many as thirty examples of it in the practice of Dupuytren. (C'onsid. et Obs. Anat. ^c. sur la Hernie Fern, in his Concours, p. 42.) According to the observations of Scarpa, and all the best modem writers upon surgery, the crural hernia forms, both in the male and female subject, in the cellular substance, which accom- panies the crural vessels below Poupart's liga- ment. The swelling follows the internal side of those vessels, and gradually descends into the fold of the thigh, between the sartorius, gracilis, and pectineus muscles. " Many surgeons believe (says Scarpa) that the hernial sac, and the intestines which it contains, are ordinarily situated above the crural vessels and the trunk of the vena saphena, and sometimes between these vessels and the an- terior superior spine of the ilium. But, so far as my knowledge extends, this assertion is not sup- ported by a single accurate description of the crural hernia in the early stage. It is true that when the tumor has in time acquired a large size, and its fundus is inclined in a parallel manner to the fold of the thigh, it partly or entirely covers the crural vessels, and even the crural nerve, as Walter says he once observed. {Syllogc Com- ment. Anal. p. 24.) But it is not thence to be concluded that the tumor in the beginning de- scended over the crural vessels, much less be- twixt them and the anterior superior spinous pro- cess of the ilium. Neither nuist it be imagined that the neck of the hernial sac becomes removed from the inner to the outer side of these vessels. If these two cases ever happen, they must be very rare ; and the best authors who have treated of crural hernia concur in stating that in performing the operation they have constantly found the vis- cera situated at the inner side of the crural vessels, but never at their outside. Even when the tumor, after acquiring a considerable size, is situated transversely over the crural vessels, the neck of the hernial sac has always been found upon their inner side, that is to sa)', between them and the pubes. Le Dran {Observ. de Chir. t. ii. p. 2) ; La Faye {Cours d'Opirations de Dionis, p. 358) ; Petit {(Ezivres Posthumes, t. ii. p. 219) ; Mor- gagni {De Sed et Cans. Morb. epist. xxxiv. xv.) ; Arnaud {Mem. de Chir. torn. ii. p. 768) ; Gunz {De Herniis Libelltis, p. 78) ; Bertrandi {Tratlato delte Operaxioni, t. i. Annot. p. 218) ; Pott {Chirurg. Works, vol. ii. p. 152) ; Desault {Traiti des Mai. Chirurg. p. 191—195 ; B. Bell {A System of Surgery, vol. i. p. 387) ; Richter (Trade, des Tlernies, chap, xxxiv.); Nessi {Instituz. Chir. t. ii. p. 198) ; Lassus {Med. Oper. t. i. p. 198), and many other writers, all concur upon this point. " In support of their opinion (says Scarpa) I could cite a great number of cases of my own, which I have collected either in oper- ating on several individuals for crural hernia, or in dissecting the same kind of hernia in the bodies of many female subjects, and in that of the man from whom I have taken the 8th plate. Lastly, also, having had an opportunity of dissecting, in a female, an enormous crural hernia, which de- scended one third of the way down the thigh, I observed that the neck of the sac did not en- croach at all upon the crural vessels, but lay en- tirely on their inner side." {Scarpa, Traite. des Hermes, p. 203, 206.) The tumor, on account of its situation, is liable to be mistaken for an enlarged inguinal gland, and many fatal events are recorded to have happened from the surgeon's ignorance of the existence of the disease. Mr. Lawrence once saw an hospital surgeon mistake a crural hernia for a glandular timior, and the patient died, with- out any attempt being made to afford relief by the operation (p. 413, ed. 4). (See also Petit, il/ii/. Chir. t. ii. p. 293, &c.) A gland can only be- come enlarged by the gradual effects of inflam- mation. The swelling of a crural hernia comes on in a momentary and sudden manner, and, when strangulated, occasions the train of symptoms alread)' described in our account of the inguinal liernia, which sj'mptoras an enlarged gland could never occasion. Such circumstances seem to be sufficiently discriminative, though the feel of the two kinds of swelling is often not of itself enough to make the surgeon decided in his opinion. It is particularly remarked by Hesselbach that while a femoral hernia is incomplete, that is to say within tlie outer opening of the passage, through which the parts descend, the disease presents itself as a round firm swelling, on the outer side of which the femoral artery can be felt pulsating. Tliis small hernia may be mistaken for an inflamed gland, and the case can only be discriminated by the history of its origin and symptoms. {Ucbcr den Ursprutig der Leisten-und-Schenkdbriichc, p. 51.) A femoral hernia may be mistaken for an oblique inguinal, when the expanded part of the swelling lies over Poupart's ligament. As the taxis and operation for the first case ought to ho done difi"erently from those for the latter, the error may lead to very bad consequences. The fimoral hernia, hoivcver, may always be discriminated ijj the neck of the tuv'ior having PouparCs ligament above it. In inguinal hernia the spine of the pubes is behind and below this part of the sac ; but m femoral liernia it is on the same honxontal Icveli