1014 HOSPITAL GANGRENE, it possessed ami become putrid ; tlie discharge which had been partly suppressed, now reappears, not as pus, but as a fojtid ulcer, exhaling the pecu- liarly offensive stench of the disease. This pulp)', yellowish putrid substance becomes thicker, and extends deeply; it invades the whole substance of a muscle." " Whether," continues Guthrie, " the disease begin in the more concentrated form, or in the milder state of phagedasnic ulceration, its tendency to assume the circular form, and its peculiar stench, alwavs distinguish it." "With regard to the question of the relative precedence of local or constitutional symptoms, and the nature of the latter, and the effects of remedies, the following remarks by Dr. Tice, are quoted by Guthrie. {Lancet, 1848, vol. ii. p. 686.) He is disposed to believe that no amount of the disease can exist without some constitutional derangement, however small '; he believes, also, in the acutely inflammatory nature of the complaint in some persons, and in the eflSciency of antiphlogistic measures. " That in many cases the general affection, or pyrexial invasion or attack, may be slight, and of 60 short duration as to elude the detection of the medical observer, there can be little doubt; but that some degree of constitutional variety takes place as early as the sore or ulcer loses its granu- lating and healthy action, subsequent remarks or inferences authorise our conclusion and de- cision. " An important circumstance, which clearly shows how much the general constitution becomes affected on the first attack of hospital ulcer, which, in many instances, the fever will clearly and un- equivocally precede, is that among the most certain methods of arresting its progress on the invasion, will be venesection and general depletion. It appears, therefore, a fair and rational inference, that when the disposition to hospital ulcer mani- fests itself, or becomes rife among men in hospital, the causes of the morbid innovation or action will be referred to those which influence generally or constitutionally, and not locally and individually. " In many cases in which the morbid invasion has been very sudden, wherein the health of the individuals has been undisturbed, and especially where a robust habit, or what is commonly termed a healthy condition has appeared for some time to fortify the constitution against any virulent conver- sion in the progress of healthy ulcers or wounds, oftentimes the sudden accession will furnish a most ardent example of local and general inflammatory excitement, without any obvious prior admonition or apparent cause. In such attacks, I have observed delirium shortly to occur; the pulse be- comes extremely quick, tongue dry and coated, eyes frequently are suffused, skin burning hot, and general evacuations are suppressed, or but spar- ingly obtained. These are preludes oftentimes to very extensive changes in the local deterioration of the ulcer or wound, and to very alarming advances on the animal functions. So far Dr. Tice. Mr. Gutlirio continues as follows:—"The fever is sometimes inflammatory, sometimes typhoid, and occasionally resembles the bilious remittent of the summer and autumn in hot climates, and ends in typhus. It is probable that a want of attention to these circumstances luis decided the opinions entertained by different individuals as to the general character of the febrile syniptonis, and of the treatment to be pursued for their removal. That this disease was generally considered a con- stitutional complaint, until nearly the end of 1813, must be admitted; and it was the very indifferent success which attended its treatment by constitu- tional means, and simple detergent applications everywhere, except during the last three months of 1813, at Bilboa, which caused the surgeons of the British <irmy to view it more as a local disease, capable of giving rise to severe constitutional sym- ptoms. This change of opinion was materially influenced by the knowledge that the French sur- geons more generally considered, with Pouteau, that it was, in the first instance, local, and treated it by the actual cautery. In my hands, constitu- tional treatment, and every kind of simple mild detergent applications, always failed, unless accom- panied by absolute separation, the utmost possible extent of ventilation, and the greatest possible at- tention to cleanliness; and not even then, without great loss of parts in many instances, which induced me, at Santander, in November and December, 1813, to try the mineral acids, not as then gene- rally used as stimulants or detersives, but as caus- tics. This proceeding was always, however, ac- companied by a constitutional treatment, regulated by the nature of the symptoms which at that station were never benefited by bleeding, although it had proved so effectual, without the local remedies, at the neighbouring seaport of Bilboa. " Dr. Boggie, the great advocate forconstitutional treatment, and to whom I particularly refer, says, that imder him, at Bilboa, in 1813, where caustic applications were not used, or only as detersives, the disease was arrested by blood-letting to the amount of one or two pounds, and in some cases to the extent of three or four. He admits, however, that bleeding must be resorted to with the greatest caution in persons of less robust constitutions, who may have lingered long in hospital, or snffered much from ill health; and that in some cases it is al- together inadmissible—an acknowledgment which is decisive in my mind, that constitutional treat- ment is only auxiliary. He says he never saw the puncture made by the lancet affected by this dis- ease; a convincing proof to me, who have seen it, that the virulence of the complaint, ns an infectious disease, was subsiding at Bilboa, when the treat- ment he introduced proved so effectual." The following case, reported to Mr. Guthrie by Mr. Boutflower, will show the kind of symptoms in which bleeding was supposed to be specific :— "John Boyle, 71st Regiment, was wounded on the 18th of June 1815 by a piece of a shell which ran across the fore aud upper part of the left thigh very superficially. While in hospital at Antwerp, the wound sloughed; it had nearly healed when he had embarked for England. On the passr.ge it assumed an unhealthy appearance, and on his ar- rival here, on the 5th of November, was in a com- pletely sloughing state. On the 6th, twenty ounces of blood were taken away. On the 8th, he was transferred to the sloughing ward, wider my care: the wound was about twelve inches in circumfer- ence, the edges violently retorted, with excessive pain : he had a full and' strong pulse, with general febrile symptoms. He was again bled to twenty ounces, his bowels freely evacuated, and the pure muriatic acid applied to the entire surface of the wound. It appears, by my notes, that after two