HERNIA of the deepest layer of the superficial fascia wliich fills up the saphenic opening of the fascia lata and adheres to its margin. It is perforated by the superficial lymphatics as they pass to gain the in- terior of the femoral sheath; hence its name of cribriform fascia. Its surfaces are inseparable except by dissection, from the sheath of the vessels on the one hand, and from the superficial fascia on the other. The sheath of the femoral vessels and the fascia propria have been already sufficiently described.] All late writers on hernia have remarked how very small the aperture is, through which the viscera protrude in the femoral rupture; how much greater the constriction generally is, than in in- guinal hernia; consequently, how much more rapid the symptoms are; how much less frequently the taxis succeeds; and how much more dangerous delay proves. (See Sir A. Cooper, Hey, Law- rence, &c.) Though the crural ring is almost always small, yet, in a few instances, in which the tumor is large, and of long standing, it becomes very capa- cious, just as the opening often becomes, through which the inguinal hernia protrudes. Dr. Thom- son, of Edinburgh, Mr. Hey, and Mr. Lawrence, have related examples of this kind. The remarks already made concerning the treat- ment of hernia, before having recourse to the knife, are all applicable to the present case, and need not be repeated. In attempting to reduce a femoral hernia by the taxis, the surgeon should recollect, however, that relaxing Poupart's ligament, and the femoral fascia, is of the highest consequence. Hence, the thigh should be bent, and rolled in- wards. The pressure ought, also, to be first made downwards, in order to push the swelling off Pou- part's ligament; and afterwards, the parts should be propelled backwards, and then upwards, so that they may return through the crural canal and ring. For the direction of the crural canal is vertical in the greater part of its extent; its superior aperture faces upwards and backwards towards the abdo- minal cavity, whilst its inferior (the opening for the vena saphena) is directed forwards. The canal, therefore, has three different axes, which by their union, represent the form of the small italic s ; the superior liranch of which, resting upon the pubes, would form the axis of the superior aperture of the canal, and which has a direction downwards and forwards. Its middle branch would represent tliat of the canal itself, which is more vertical; whilst the inferior would pass directly forwards, through the opening for the vena saphena, in a direction corresponding to the axis of this aperture (See M. Jules Cloqtiet, On Inguinal and Femoral Hernia, p. 37, tr. by Mc Whinnie.) ^ Operation for Femoral, or Crural Hernia. Sir A. Cooper says, " The incision of the in- teguments is to be begun an inch and a half above the crural arch, in a line with the middle of the tumor, and extended downwards to the centre of the tumor below the arch. A second incision, nearly at right angles with the other, is next made, beginning from the middle of the inner side of the tumor, and extending across it to tlie outer side, BO that the form of this double incision will be that ot iiie letter T reversed." The angular flaps are, ot course, to be next dissected off, aud reflected. Dupuytren" also makes the external wound of a similar shape, the first cut being always parallel to the femoral vessels. {Breschet, op. cit. p. 169.) The making of two incisions, however, is not deemed necessary by the majority of surgeons : and, in all the numerous operations which I hav> seen performed in St. Bartholomew's Hospital during my apprenticeship there, and afterwards, and in eight cases, upon which I have operated myself, a transverse wound was not necessary. The division of the skin should begin about an inch above the crural ring, and be continued ob- liquely downwards and outwards. In this man- ner, we cut exactly over the place, where the incision of the stricture should be made. (See Lawrence, p. 425, ed. 4.) " The first incision (Sir A. Cooper remarks) exposes the superficial fascia, which is given off by the external oblique muscle, and which covers the anterior part of the hernial sac; but, if the patient is thin, and the hernia has not been long f^ormed, this fascia escapes observation, as it is then slight^and delicate, and adheres closely to the inner side of the skin. When this fascia is divided, the tumor is so far exposed, that the circum- scribed form of the hernia may be distinctly seen ; and a person not well acquainted with the anatomy of the parts, would readily suppose that the sac itself was now laid bare, This, however, is not the case, for it is still enveloped by a membrane, which is the fascia, that the hernial sac pushes before it, as it passes through the inner side of the crural sheath. This membrane, the fascia propria, is to be next divided longitudinally from the neck to the fundus of the sac; and if the subject is fat, an adipose membrane lies between it and the sac, from which it may be distinguished, by seeing the cellular membrane passing from its inner side to the surface of the sac. "This is, in my opinion, the most difficult part of the operation; for the fascia propria is very liable to be mistaken for the sac itself; so that, when it is divided, it is supposed, that the sac is exposed, and the intestine is laid bare : following upon this idea, the stricture is divided in the outer part of the sac, and the intestine, still strangulated, is pushed, with the unopened sac, into the cavity of the abdomen. The hernial sac being exposed, is to be nexl opened; and, to divide it with safety, it is best to pinch up a small part of it between the finger and thumb ; to move the thumb upon the finger, by which the intestine is distinctly felt, and may be separated from the inner side of the sac; and then to cut into the sac, by placing the blade of the knife horizontally. Into this opening, a director should be passed, and the sac opened from its fundus to the crural sheath. (0» Crural and Umbilical Hernia.') Sometimes the contents of the hernia, thus exposed, admit of being returned, without the fur- ther use of the knife. When this object, however, cannot be readily effected, the protruded parts should never suffer injury from repeated manual attempts; and it is best to divide the stricture at once. The merit of having first proposed the safest plan of cutting Poupart's ligament, even before surgeons were aware of the parts which really form the strangulation, is assigned by Girabeniat to Mr. B. Bell, who introduced his finger belew Poupart s