in the manner of Larrey, except that he only com- The surgeon, seizing thelimb with his left hand while pressed the artery in the groin, and did not begin with tying it, a metliod to wliicli Larrey himself afterwards gave the preference. (See Mem de CMr. Mil. t. iv. p. 434.) The patient was only seven years old, and the case a diseased hip. The wound healed, but the child died of scrofula three months afterwards. The cotyloid cavity was found lull of fungous riesh, and the os innominatum ca- ous. As the latter state always exists in the dis- ■ ased hip-joint, the whole of the disease does not admit of removal by amputation, and consequently the attempt ought never to be made. (See Joints, Diseases of.) The plan of operation, adopted by BafTos, is considered, I believe, by all surgeons of the pre- sent day, better than that formerly practised by Larrey, inasmuch as the unnecessary preliminary measure of taking up the artery in the groin, in- stead of simply compressing it against the os pubis, was rejected. Cutting down to the artery as a precaution against hemorrhage is doing a double operation, and putting the patient to needless suf- fering : it was the earliest method, having been proposed by Volther and Puthod. Who was the lirst proposer to compress the artery against the os pubis, instead of cutting down to the vessel, I am not at present aware, but the plan was publicly recommended by Mr. Abernethy, in his anatomical lectures, for the last thirty years of his life. _ Lisfranc was said to complete amputation at the hip-joint upon the dead subject in ten seconds ; the following was his method, as described by a mo- dem writer :—The nates of the patient resting on the edge of the table, and the limb being sup- ported by an assistant, the operator draws a line an inch in length, from the anterior and superior spinous process of the ilium, straight down the thigh. From this point, he marks another inwards towards the pubes, of half an inch, so as to form a right angle. On the inner extremity of the last, he places the point of a long-bladed catlin, and pushes it perpendicularly downwards, till it strikes against the head of the femur. Then passing it on the outer side of the bone, he thrusts it onwards till It protrudes at about an inch from the margin of the anus. He now cuts outwards, for near an inch, in order to clear the great trochanter, and forms the external flap, four or five inches in length, by cutting down the limb between the muscles and bone. The femoral artery, which may now be seen, is compressed between the tingers and thumb of an assistant, while the ope- rator thrusts the knife in and out at the same points, as before ; but carrying it on the inner side of the head of the bone, he forms a smaller flap on that side of the extremity. Then, with the point of the knife, he cuts through the capsular liVa- ment, dislocates the bone, and removes the limb by dividing the round ligament, &c. (See Avc- t/l s Operalivc Siirgen/, Lond. 1823, p. 1.58 &c • Mainyanll, Med. Opiraloire, fol. Paris, 1822 ) It is obvious (says Mr. Symc) that so long as'tho surgeon merely cuts downwards, and keeps close by the bone, he will not injure the femoral arterv which cannot be divided till the knife is carried outwards. This is one great excellence referred by Listranc to his operation ; for, before the surgeon cuts the artery, the assistant can introduce his hngers into the wound, and compress the vessel rhe disarticulation is accomplished a.f follows- AMPUTATION. us the assistant holds aside the flaps, makes a cut half round the margin of the acetabulum at its fore part._ The limb is then put into the posture of ab- duction, the bone starts from its socket, the knife is carried round its head, and the triangular ligament, and remains of the capsular ligament, are divided. (See Ed. Med. Surg. Jour. No. 78, p. 4L) A similar method of operating was followed by Wal- ther. (See Graefe aiid Walt/ier''s Journ. Also Atidersoiis Quarterly Journ. vol. i. p. 630.) It was likewise preferred by Mr. Syme, in an interesting case, where he amputated at the hip-joint for an extensive necrosis of the femur, involving the neck of the bone. Unfortunately, when the wound was nearly healed, the patient became dropsical, and died at the beginning of the eighth week from the period when his limb was taken oif. (Op. cit. p. 25.) Dupuytren made a semilunar incision, with its convexity downwards ; it began near the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and terminated near the tuberosity of the ischium. Only the skin was first divided, which was then retracted by an assistant, and the muscles cut in the same direc- tion, so as to form the internal flap four or five inches long. This was reflected, the capsule opened in Larrey's manner, the knife passed through the joint, and the outer flap made. Dupuytren and B^clard preferred compressing the artery on the horizontal branch of the os pubis to applying a ligature to it. Here we find two verj- high au- thorities in support of what has always seemed to me the best practice. Langenbeck begins the first incision on the out- side of the femoral artery, and forms the external flap, by extending the wound towards the tu- berosity of the ischium. The knee is then inclined inwards, and the head of the femui- dislocated : after which the knife is carried to the inside of the thigh, and the inner flap made. {Bibl. fur die Chh: b. iv. s. 512.) Be'clard's method seems to differ from this, chiefly by transfixion being adopted m making the flaps. The same obser- vation applies to Lisfranc'a plan. It would be useless to describe every variety of operating where the only peculiarity consists either in making the outer or the inner flap first; or in transfixion, and then cutting from within towards the skin ; or in not transfixing the limb, but cutting from 'the integuments inwards. Some operators also make one flap longer than the other ; while others, with Delpech, consider the wound more likely to heal favourably when only an internal flap is made (See Velpcau, Nouv. Elem. t. i. p. 522.) When serving with the army in Holland in 1814, I assisted (he late Dr. Cole in the perform- ance of this operation. The plan adopted by him was that taught by Mr. Abernethy, i„ his lecture" for more than thirty years. The flow of blood through the femora artery was stopped by com- pressing the vesse in the groin with Ihe handle of a key covered with lint. The thigh was then am pntated as high as possible, close belol the Z- chanters, rhe femoral artery was inunediatcly secured, and afterwards every other vessel re quiring ligature. An incision was now m-ido near the border of the acetabulum, the cotyloid ligament divided, and the head of the bone re- moved with the utmost facility and expedition The patient lost even less blood than in an ordi- nary amputation, and the wound admitted of being