GUNSHOT WOUNDS, 819 3 g2 The following ia said to be an extract from one of his letters:— " After the naval engagement of the Ist of June 1794, a great number of amputations were done immediately after the receipt of the injuries. Sixty of the patients wliose limbs had been tlius cut olf were taken to the naval hospital at Brest, and put under the care of M. Duret, With the exception of two who died of tetanus, all the rest were cured; and there was one who had had both his arms amputated. The surgeon of the Ttmerairc, which ship was captured by the English, was desirous, in compliance with the advice of their medical men, to defer the operation which manj' of the wounded stood in need of, till his arrival in port; but he had the mortification to see them all die during the passage," &c. Larrey next acquaints us that when he was sent to the army of Italy, in 1796, he had also the pain of seeing in the hospitals great numbers of the wounded fall victims to the confidence which many of the surgeons of that army placed in the principles of M. Faure. Buonaparte saw that the amhtdance volanie was the only thing that, in the event of fresh hostilities, could prevent such accidents, and in consequence of his orders Larrey formed the three division cVambulance, which are described in his Mcmoires de Chirurgie Militaire. Since this period it has always been customary in the French armies on the day of battle to make every preparation for performing amputations as speedily as possible. The mere sight of these am- bulances (always attached to the advanced guard), says M. Larrey, encourages the soldiers, and in- spires them with the greatest courage. On this occasion the following anecdote is cited from Am- brose Parg:—This famous surgeon having been ur- gently sent for by the Duke de Guise, besieged in Mentz, to attend the wounded of his army who were in want of assistance, Ambrose Pard was shown to the frightened soldiers at the breach. Upon this they immediately filled the air with shouts of the most lively joy, and cried out, " Nous 7ie pouvons plus mourir, sHl arrive que nous soyona blesses, puisque Pare, est parmi nous.'" Their courage revived, and their confidence in this skilful surgeon contributed to the preserva- tion of a place before which a formidable army was destroyed. Larrey desires us to interrogate the invalids who have lost one or two of their limbs, and nearly all will tell us that they suflfered amputa- tion a few minutes after the accident, or in the first four and twenty hours. " If Faure now re- tains any partisans," says Larrey, " I recommend them to repair to the field of battle the day after an action : they would then soon be convinced that, without the prompt performance of amputa- tion, great numbers of soldiers must inevitably lose their lives. In Egypt this truth was parti- cularly manifested." The following communication upon this point was made to Baron Larrey by M. Mnsclet, a French surgeon on duty at Alexandria :— " In the naval hospital of this port, I have seen eleven soldiers, or sailors, who were wounded in the naval action olf Aboukir, and who had suf- fered amputation in the first four and twenty hours. In five of these cases the operation had been done on the arm ; in two, on the thigh ; and in three 'others, on the leg. All these men are recovering. In the army hospital there have been only three thigh amputations, which we performed seven or eiglit days after the battle, and these three patients died a few days after the operation, although the operation was done methodically, and no grave symptoms prevailed at the time of its perform- ance. You see, sir, experience has, in this in- stance, quite confirmed your principles." In 1780, during the American Avar, as we are informed by Larrey, the surgeons of the French followed the maxim then generally adopted in France, that the operation should not be under- taken till after the subsidence of the first sym- ptoms. Almost all the patients thus treated died after the operation. On the contrarj', the Ameri- cans, who had the boldness to amputate imme- diately (or in the first foiir-and-twenty hours) upon many of their wounded countrymen, lost only a very few. Yet M. Dubor, at that time surgeon to the Artois dragoons, and from whom Larrey has collected this fact, states that the situation of the hospital for the French wounded was, on many accounts, the most advantageous. (^Dubor, Tliese hiaugurale, souienue 16 Sept. 1803, a VEeole de Strasbotirg.) Admitting that, by a concurrence of fortunate circumstances, which are not always to be calcu- lated upon, some patients escape the danger of the first symptoms, as Larrey remarks, this proves nothing in favour of doing the operation after- wards ; it must be seen what nature will do towards the event of the case. If, at the end of twenty or thirty days, the prognosis is as bad as it was previously, amputation cannot be avoided. Thus all the suiferinga which the patient has en- dured have been undergone for nothing, and the operation will now be attended with considerable risk, inasmuch as the patient is in a dangerously weakened state. If nature revives at all, no doubt the success of the operation becomes more probable; but, in this case, the surgeon, instead of having recourse to amputation, should ledouble his efforts to preserve the limb. Cases demanding Amputation con- secutively. First case. A spreading Morlificatimi.—If the disorder were owing to an internal and general cause, it would be rashness to amputate before nature had put limits to the disease. Larrey describes this species of gangrene as being dis- tinguished from that kind which is named irau- maiic by the symptoms which precede and accom- pany it. These symptoms are similar to those which are observed in nervous and typhoid fevers. Here the operation ought to be deferred, and en- deavours made to combat the general causes with regimen and internal medicines. But when gangrene is traumatic, Larrey advises the limb to be immediately cut off above the dis- organised part. Several facts in support of this doctrine are related by this experienced surgeon in his Mem. stir la Gangrene Traumatiquc. (See Moutification.) In that part of the Dictionary will be found additional observations in favour of the practice adopted and recommended by Larrey, which is so opposite to that inculcated by Sharp, Pott, and the generality of writers. In the article Amputation, I have noticed a particular case of gangrene, which has been pointed