164 ANEURISM. vent the patient taking his natural rest, the sug- gestion made by Dr. Tufnell, of unscrewing the instrument slightlj', and when the patient is asleep, gently tightening it again without awakening him, may advantageously be adopted ; it is indeed sur- prising how very little unscrewing will relieve the pain of the compression. A large cradle should then be placed over the patient's body, so that the ■weight of the bed-clothes may be taken off the apparatus, and that the patient may manage it without risk of disturbance. Should there be still much uneasiness, the instrument might be taken off for a few hours, and compression kept up in an intermittent manner. Even under such circum- stances as these consolidation of the sac may ensue. . The effects upon the tumor vary considerably. In some cases it rapidly and suddenly solidifies; more commonlj% however, this is a gradual process, the aneurism becoming more painful and solid, -with less pulsation and bruit, As the solidification takes place, there is usually a good deal of restless- ness, a feeling of general uneasiness, and of con- stitutional disturbance, which is best quieted by opiates. As the pressure is continued, and the tumor begins to harden, the anastomosing vessels enlarge, with a good deal of burning pain in the limb generally, and arterial pulsations in situations where usually none are felt. The abnormal pulsa- tion, in these cases, is always found to occur in much the same situations, the same vessels appear- ing to undergo dilatation. Thus Tufnell has made ii remark, which I have had more than one oppor- tunity of verifying, that in the treatment of popli- teal aneurism by compression, three arteries will be found to be enlarged, one of which passes over the centre of the tumor, another over the head of the fibula, and the third along the inner edge of the patella ; he also states tliat the severe burning pain which is felt in these cases, is owing to the artery accompanying the communicans peronei nerve being enlarged. After complete solidification of the tumor has taken place, the compression ought to be continued for at least forty-eight hours, so as to secure against the occurrence of a relapse. The duration of the treatment varies very greatly. In some cases the tumor has become solidified in a few hours or days. In other instances again the treatment must be protracted for more than three months before a cure resulted. Of twenty-six cases of femoral or popliteal aneurism cured by compression, in the London Hospitals, the average time, according to Mr. Hutchinson, was nineteen days. Much of course will depend, in this respect, on the constitution of the patient, and on the con- dition of the tumor ; those circumstances which are most favourable to the spontaneous cure of the aneurism will also influence the rapidity of the cure by compression. Of the great value of compression in tlie treat raent of aneurism there can be no doubt; but yet it cannot be looked upon as taking the place of the ligature in the cure of this disease, except in those cases in which the tumor is situated in the arteries of the lower extremit)', below tho middle of the thigh. In aneurisms occurring in the vicinity of the trunk, as in the iliac, the carotid, subclavian, and axillary arteries, it is quite inapplicable. Spontiineous aneurism being extremely rare in the ■ and as the traumatic forms of the upper extremity, ■ • .1 . disease which occur here, generally require that the sac should be laid open, it is seldom found necessary to have recourse to it in this part of the body, though it may be, and has been, successfully applied to the brachial arterj', The great question with regard to compression appears to me, after all, to be whether it possesses any special advantages over the ligature, in the treatment of femoral and popliteal aneurisms to which its employment is necessarily chiefly con- fined. The principal objections that have been uro-ed against compression are that its employment is more painlul and tedious than the use of the ligature, and that those cases that are unpromising to the ligature, or that require amputation rather than it. are equally unfavourable to compression, and cannot be saved by the employment of this means. To these objections I think it may with justice be answered, that the pain attendant on the em- ployment of compression depends very greatly upon the skill and care with which the apparatus is applied and managed throughout, and that much depends upon the kind of instniment that is used, being certainly much diminished when Carte's elastic instrument is employed. With regard to the relative tediousness of the treatment under the two plans, it would appear that in reality there is but little difference; for although some cases in which compression is used, are prolonged over a considerable space of time, yet they do not occupy more than is often consumed when accidents of various kinds follow the use of the ligature ; and it not uiifrequently happens in compression, w;hat can never occur after the employment of the liga- ture, that the patient is cured of his disease in a few hours or days. Taking, however, the average of the Dublin cases, we shall find that the treat- ment lasted twenty-five days, and in the recent London cases but nineteen, and this is not very different from what happens with the ligature; for of fifty-four cases recorded by Crisp, in which the femoral artery was tied, the average time for the separation of the ligature was eighteen days, and if to this a week more be added for the closure of the wound, and for the treatment of the various accidents so often accompanying and fol- lowing the ligature, we should probably be within the mark, and yet only bring the duration of the treatment of the two methods to the same level. After all, surgeons will eventually be guided in their estimate of the value of the two plans of treatment, not so much by the question of sub- mitting their patients to a slightly more painful or tedious treatment, as to the comparative risk ot life attendant upon one or other method. Upon this point the statistics have yet to be made ; partly because the cases of the treatment of aneurism by compression have not as yet been very numerous, and partlv because the unsuccessful cases of liga- ture have" not been so commonly published as the successful ones. If, however, we compare the 3. cases of femoral and popliteal aneurism treated m Dublin up to February, 11151, as g've" l^i" Jr. Bellingham UMcd. Chir. Trans, vol. 34), with the results of the 188 cases of femoral and popliteal aneurism, recorded by Nor. s, in -h-ch the arte y was ligatured, we shall find, that of he 32 c m pressim, cases 26 were cured ; /-/''^J'f was applied after pressure had failed; m A am naat^on was performed ; in 1, death occurred from Erysipelas ; in 1, from chest disease; and m 1 case