''^O HEAD, INJURIES OF THE " Tlie symptoms attending an inflamed or sloughy state of the membranes, in consequence of external violence, are all of the febrile kind, and never, at first, imply any nnnatural pressure : such are, pain ]n the head, restlessness, want of sleep, frequent and hard pulse, hot and dry skin, flushed coun- tenance, inflamed eyes, nausea, vomiting, rigor, and, toward the end, convulsion and delirium. And none of these appear at first, that is, immediately after the accident; seldom until some days are passed.^' This last observation, made by Pott, is one that is well worthy of the practitioner's constant recol lection, lest he wrongly fancy his patient secure too soon, and neglect the early use of the only means by which a recovery can be eflfected. Thus, as Sir Astley Cooper notices, the time when inflam mation of the brain (and it may be added of its membranes) follows the violence, is generally about a week ; rarely sooner. Frequentlj^, it does not come on till a fortnight or three weeks after the injury ; and even more time must elapse before the patient is quite safe, or ought to deviate from a strict and temperate regimen. In confirmation of this remark, a case is mentioned, where the neglect to keep the bowels regular brought on a fatal at- tack of inflammation of the brain, as late as four months after the receipt of a blow on the head. {Lectures, <L-c. p. 339.) In University College Hospital, I have had several cases in which the bad symptoms began at very late periods after the accident. One set or class of symptoms is produced by an extravasated fluid, making pressure on the brain and origin of the nerves, so as to impair or abolish voluntary motion and the senses ; the other is caused by the inflamed or putrid state of the mem- branes covering the brain, and seldom aft'ects the organs of sense until the latter end of the disease, that is, until a considerable quantity of matter is formed, which matter must press like any other fluid. " If there be neither fissure nor fracture of the skull, nor extravasation, nor commotion under- neath it, and the scalp be neither considerably bruised nor wounded, the mischief is seldom disco- vered or attended to for some few days. The first attack is generally by pain in the part which re- ceived the blow. This pain, though beginning in that point, is soon extended all over the liead, and is attended with a languor, or dejection of strength and spirits, which are soon followed by a nausea, and inclination to vomit, a vertigo or giddiness, a quick and hard- pulse, and an incapacity of sleep- ing, at least quietly. A day or two after this at- tack, if no means preventive of inflammation are used, the part stricken generally swells, and be- comes puft'y and tender, but not painful ; neither does the tumor arise to any considerable height, nor spread to any great extent: if this tumid part of the scalp be now divided, the pericranium will be found of a darkish hue, and either quite de- tached, or very easily separable from the skull, be- tween which and it will bo found a small quantity of dark-coloured ichor. " If the disorder has made such progress that the pericranium is quite separated and detached from the skull, the latter will even now be found to be somcwliat altered in colour from a sound nealthy bone. From this time the symptoms generally ad- more hastily and more apparently ; the Vance fever increases, the skin becomes hotter, the pulse quicker .and harder, the sleep more disturbed, the anxiety and restlessness more fatiguing ; and to these are generally added irregular rigors, which, are not followed by any critical sweat, and which instead of relieving the patient, add considerably to his sufferings. If the scalp has not been divided or removed until the symptoms are thus far ad- vanced, the alteration of the colour of the bone will be found to be more remarkable ; it will be found to be whiter and more dry than a healthy one; or, as Fallopius has very justly observed, it will be found to be more like a dead bone: the sanies, or fluid, between it and the pericranium will also, in this state, be found to be more in quantity, and the said membrane will have a more livid diseased aspect, " In this state of matters, if the dura mater be denuded, it will be found to be detached from the inside of the cranium, to have lost its bright silver hue, and to be, as it were, smeared over with a kind of mucus, or with matter, but not with blood. Every hour after this period all the sjmiptoms are exasperated, and advance with hasty strides ; the headache and thirst become more intense, the strength decreases, the rigors are more frequent, and at last convulsive motions, attended in some with delirium, in others with paralysis, or comatose stupidity, finish the tragedy. " If the scalp has not been divided till this point of time, and it be done now, a very oftensive dis- coloured kind of fluid will be found lying on the bare cranium, whose appearance will be still more unlike to the healthy natural one; if the bone be now perforated, matter will be foimd between it and the dura mater, generally in considerable quantity, but difierent in different cases and cir- cumstances. Sometimes it will be in great abun- dance, and diifused over a very large part of the membrane ; and sometimes the quantity will be less, and consequently the space which it occupies smaller. Sometimes it lies only on the exterior surface of the dura mater, and sometimes it is be- tween it and the pia mater, or also even on the surface of the brain, or within the substance of it, &c. " As the inflammation and separation of the dura mater is not an immediate consequence of the vio- lence, so neither are the symptoms immediate, sel- dom until some days have passed; the fever at first is slight, but increases gradually; as the membrane becomes more and more diseased, all the febrile symptoms are heightened ; the formation of matter occasions rigors, frequent and irregular, until such a quantity is collected as brings on delirium, spasm, and death." " When the scalp has been wounded," Mr. Pott observes, " the wound will for some little time have tlie same appearance as a mere simple wound of this part, unattended with other mischief, would have; it will, like that, at first discharge a thin sanies, or gleet, and then begin to suppurate; it will digest, begin to incarn, and look perfectly well; but, after a few days, all these favourable appear- ances will vanish; the sore will lose its florid com- plexion and granulated surface ; will become pale, glassy, and flabby; instead of good matter, it will discharge only a thin discoloured sanies ; the lint with which it is dressed, instead of coming off easily (as in a kindly suppurating sore), will stick - - - - ■ • ■ -'nstead of to all parts of it; and the pericranium, i: