I've, p. 109, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1820. Glehe, Nouyellcs Ubs. Pratiques siir les Maladies do I'CEil, 1812. Ve- motirs, Tvait(! des Maladies dcs Yeux. Andrew Smith, in Edin. Med. and Surg-. Journ. vol. xix. p. 13. John StevetisoH, On tlie Advantase of an Early Operation for the different Species of Cataract, Edin. Med. Journ. vol. .\ix. p. 513. Also his Treatise on the Nature, &c. of Cataract, 8vo. ed. 2. 1836. TV'endz, Ueber den Zustand den Ausenheljkunde in Frankreich, nebst Kritischen Benierkungen, fiber denselben in Deutschland, Niirnberg;, 1815. Also Quarterly Journ. of Foreign Med. No. 4. Sir W. Adams, On the Diseases of the Eye, 1812. Practical Inquiry into the causes of the frequent failure of Depression and Extraction; with new and ipiproved operations; 8vo. Lond. 1817. G. J. Guthrie, Lec- tures on the Operative Surgery of the Eye, Svo. Lond. 1823. G. Frick, Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, p. 155, &c. edit. 2. with notes by jfi. Welban}!, Lond. 1826. C. Loudon, Inquiry into the Principal Causes of the Unsuccessful Termination of Extraction by the Cornea, with the view of showing-the Superiority of Dr. i^. Jaeger's Double Knife, &c. Loud. 1826. Arthur Jacob, On a Cataract-needle; Dublin Hos- pital Keports, vol. iv. p. 214, 1827. W. Lawrence, On Dis. of the Eye, Svo. Lond. 1833. Richard Middlemore, On Dis. of the Eye, 2 vols. Svo. Lond. 1835. W. Mackenzie, On Dis. of the Eye, 2nd edit, Svo. Lond. 1835. G. J. Guthrie, On the Certainty of Exti'action, Svo. Lond. 1834. Dupuytren, Le90ns Orales de Clin. Chir. t. i. art. 3, Svo. Paris, 1832. Carron du Tillards, Recherches Pratiques sur la Cataracte, Paris, 1834. [F. Tyrrell, Practical Work on Diseases of the Eye, 2 vols. Lond. 1840. J. Scott, Cataract and its Treatment, Lond. 1843. C. Deval, Traits de Chirurgie Oculaire, Paris, 1844. B. E. Srodhurst, Of the Crystalline Lens and Cataract, Lond. 1850. A. Nelaton, Parallele des Modes du Traitement de la Cataracte, Paris, 1850. J. Sichel, Iconographie Ophthalmologique, Paris, 1852. J. Dal- rjmple, Pathology of the Human Eye, Lond. 1852. il. Haynes Walton, Treatise on Operative Ophthal- mic Surgery, Lond. 1853. E. Jaeger, Ueber Staar und Staar operationem, Wien, 1853. J. Van Roes- broeck, Cours d'Ophthalmologie, Gand, 1853. L. A. Desmarfes, Traits des Maladies des Yeux, Paris, 1853-6. J. Dixon, Practical Study of Diseases of the Eye, Lond. 1855. E. Jaeger, Beitrage zur Pathologie des Auges, Wien, 1S55. T. Wharton Jones, A Ma- nual of Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery, Lond. 1855. W. While Cooper, On Wounds and Injuries of the Eye. Lond. 1859.] CATHETER (from icaBiTifxt, to thrust into). A tube which is introduced through the urethra into the bladder, for tlie purpose of drawing off the urine when it has accumulated in this organ, and cannot be discharged in the natural way (see Urine, Retention of) ; or sometimes for pro- moting its quick evacuation as soon as it has de- scended from the kidneys, as whore the bladder or urethra has given way, or been wounded, and it is a matter of urgent importance to prevent any further effusion of urine. Plere the patient's chance of preservation will depend partly upon free incisions for the discharge of the urine already effused, and partly upon the prompt use of the catheter, to hinder fresh quantities of this fluid from getting into the cellular tissue, or even sometimes into the cavity of the peritoneum, as in a wound or rupture of the bladder. (Sec RLAnDER, Gun- shot Wounds, and Wounds.) Catheters arc also very important means in the treatment of stric- tures of the urethra, and fistula; in perina:o. (See Fistula in Peiun/Eo; Urethra, Stiuctuiies OF ; and Urinary Aisscesses.) Occasionally, they are employed for tlie injection of lluid into the bladder, as where coagula are lodged in this viscus, or where it is advantageous to have il in a distended state during the performance of an opera- tion, as that of LitkotrUy. (Sec this word.) Of course, there arc two kinds of catheters; one in CATHETER. 441 tended for the male ; the other, for the female urethra. With respect to catheters, three things arc to be considered : — 1st, tlie instrument itself ; 2nd, the manner of introducing it; and 3rd, the conduct to be pursued after its introduction. [Catheters are either inelastic, and made of metal, rendering thein finn, and resisting; or elastic and flexible, made of elastic gum, and usually called gum catheters.] Metal catheters were an- ciently composed of copper ; Celsus knew of no other kind. As these, however, had the incon- venience of becoming incrusted with verdigris, they at length fell into disuse, and others, made of silver, were substituted for them. This change, which was made as early as the time of the Arabian practitioners, still receives the approbation of the best modern surgeons. A common silver catheter is a tube, of such a diameter as will allow it to be introduced with ease into the urethra, and of va- rious figures and lengths, according as il is in- tended for the young or adult, the male or female, subject. For an adult female it should be about six inches long; and, for young girls, four or five. For men, the length ought to be from ten inches and a half to eleven inches. But, as the instru- ment need not enter far into the bladder, Mr. John Bell's advice to avoid too great a length merits observance. {Principles of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 193.) In cases of diseased prostate gland, the catheter should be much longer than in others. (See Prostate Gland.) As the urethra in some in- stances is narrow, and in others wide, surgeons should be furnished with catheters of different diameters. The choice of the instrument, with respect to its width, is likewise determined very much by the nature of the disease of the urethra. {Langenheck, Bihl. b. i. p. 1177.) For a woman, the diameter ought to be at least tvi'o lines; and for girls, a line and a half. For male adult sub- jects, Desault recommends the thickness of two lines and one-third ; and for boys, that of a line and a half. In general, whenever the urethra is pervious, it is better to follow the advice of De- sault, and employ a largish catheter, which will enter the passage more easily, and not be entangled in the folds of the membranous lining of the canal, while it will afford a more ready outlet for the urine. On the other hand, a small catheter should be preferred, when there are obstructions in the passage. Catheters also differ in shape: those which Desault used for male subjects had only a slight curvature of one-third of their length ; a curvature which began insensibly from their straight part, and was continued to the very end of their beaks. The curvature was also regular, so as to form the segment of a circle of six French inches in diameter. Amussat recommends the use of straight catheters, which arc passed as far as the pubes, while the penis is drawn upwards, which is then brought down between the thighs so as to lessen the bend of the urethra. One advantage imputed to a straight catheter is, that it may be rotated between the surgeon's fingers, whei'eby the chanco of its surmounting every obstacle will be increased. {Archives Ghi. de Mid. t. iv. Also P. Ecot, Diss, du Catharismo c.vcrcee avcc la Sonde droite, Strasb., I!i2r), 4to.) As the course of the healthy urethra in the male subject is regular, the caprice evinced by surgeons in the different curv- atures of their catheters cannot be founded on any correct anatomical principles, and the bend