21-2 ANEURISM artery, is recorded by Mr. Dalrymple, surgeon at Norwich. This gentleman performed the opera- tion on the 12th of November, 1012. The pa- tient was a female, aged forty-four. The protrusion of the eye was relieved in proportion as the swelling diminished. The violent headaches also subsided; but the eyesight was irrecoverably lost. (See Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. vi. p. 111.) Tiie carotid artery has sometimes been tied with the view of enabling the surgeon to cut away swellings from the neck and side of the liice, where, from particular circumstances in tho cases, there was reason to fear a fatal hemorrhage without that preliminary measure. (See GoodkuVs and ArenaCs Cases, in Med. and Chir. Trans, vols. vii. and xii.) An interesting case, in which my friend Mr. Vincent tied the carotid trunk for an aneurism, is published in the 10th volume of the latter work. (P. 212, &c.) In this example the internal jngular vein did not appear to be at all in the way during the operation ; some of the fibres of the omo- hj-oideus, however, could not be conveniently drawn aside, and were therefore divided. A sin- gle ligature was applied ; the pulsation in the tu- mor did not entirely cease at first, when the artery was tied, but it did so two days afterwards ; and the swelling was rapidly diminishing. The liga- ture came away about three weeks after the opera- tion, and there was every hope of a cure; but, between the fourth and fifth week, a considerable swelling occurred between the wound and the jaw, impeding deglutition, but not the breathing. This state was followed by febrile symptoms, increased difficulty of swallowing, an attack of coughing, ■ and impeded respiration. In the hope of afford- in'^ relief, an incision was made in the tumor, from which a small quantity of pus and coagulura issued ; but it was in vain, for the patient was dyintr. On dissection the carotid artery was found perfectly closed as far as the division of the arteriainnorainata. But, above the ligature, the ves- sel was open and inflamed, and pus was found in it. The most remarkable circumstance noticed was globules of air, adhering to the inner surface of the aorta and other large arteries, and found also under the tunica arachiioidea. The bulk of the swelling in the neck depended upon etFusion ot serum in the cellular membrane. The cure of carotid aneurisms by the operation has now been so often exemplified, that even to refer to every case upon record would demand more space than I can afford. A successfu in- stance is reported by Macaulay {hdin. Med Siuy. Journ. April, 1814) ; another by Dr. Post, who used two ligatures, and divided the artery in the space between them {New England Jonrn. of Medicine and Surqery, vol. iii. p. 205, Boston, 1!!14) ; another by Mi% Giles Lyford, proving the sufficiency of a single ligature {ISIed. Chir. Trans. vol. x\. p. 07, &C.)'" The case in which Mr. Good lad tied the carotid, in order to prevent hemor- rhage in the removal of a tumor involving the pa- rotid gland, is contained in vol. vii. p. 112, &c. of the latter book. The example, in which the carotid was tied by Dr. Frick, in the hospital at Hamburgh, for the cure of a diseased parotid, is reported in the Lancet, No. I!i2. Some diminu- tion of the swelling, and increased power of swal- lowing, followed ; but suppuration took place, and the case ended fatally. For the particulars of a carotid aneurism cured by the ligature of the artery by M. Diiraont, see Diss, sur VAneurisme de I'Arth-e Carolide, par P. J. I Wte'/iwyen, Paris, 1815. Walther, of Land- shut, in the "year 1814, tied the carotid artery for the cure of an aneurism with complete success: he applied only a single ligature. {Breschel, Fr. Transl. of Mr. Hodyson's Work, t. ii. p. 83.) In this translation are reported several instances, in which Dupuytren and other continental surgeons applied a ligature to the carotid. Dr. Holscher, of Hanover, has also operated with success. (See Lond. Med. Bepository, vol. xvi. No. 94.) Of the plan of tying the carotid above the aneurism, when it is situated so low that the liga- ture cannot be applied below it, I have also spoken. The facts, by which the propriety of this practice has now been completely established, have also been noticed : they appear to me to reflect con- siderable credit on Mr. Wardrop, by whom this method of operating has been revived and ex- tended. The practice of tying the carotid for the cure of aneurism of the arteria innominata will be noticed in the ensuing section. On the subject of tying both carotids, I find some interesting observations made by my friend Mr. Crosse:—" Although (sa3'S he) some animals will bear a ligature to both carotids simulta- neously, the human frame cannot sustain so great and so sudden an interruption to the supply of blood to the sensorium. Professor Mott has tested this question ; and a case came under my own observation very recently, showing the fatal ten- dency of a ligature, if applied almost simulta- neously to each of these arteries. An approxi- mation has, however, been made towards ascer- taining the shortest interval at which the second carotid may be tied after a ligature to the first; and it has been safely done at an interval of thirty- eight, seventeen, and even twelve days. Amongst the most striking of these cases, is that related by Professor Kuhl of Leipzig, who, on account of a pulsating aneurismal tumor of the scalp, arising from a wound of the occiput, and extending over nearly the entire surface of the head, attended by frequent hemorrhages, first placed a ligature on the left common carotid. This proceeding only par- tially subduing the disease, and frequent hemor- rhages from tlie affected portion of the scalp still occurring, and threatening life, a ligature was put upon the right common carotid after twenty- seven days. This was followed by convulsions ; but, after a train of very troublesome symptoms, the patient recovered, and was cured of his dis- ease. It is wortliy to be noticed, that in this, and also in other like cases, some days after both carotids had been tied, heaviness and throbbing ni the head have occurred, requiring free venesec- tion. {J. Green Crosse, in I'rovincial Med. Chtr. Trans, vol. v.) ^ , , r, [Norris has collected tho details of Hi) cases- in which the common carotid had been ligatured. Of these, thirty were for wound of the vessel ; thirty-eight for aneurism ; and the remainder for various morbid conditions about the head and neck. Of the whole number, thirty-two proved fatal, and of these, eighteen deaths occurred from cerebral disease. ,. Tiie cerebral symptoms evinced by the ligature of the carotid artery are, doubtless, due to he disturbance of the circulation through the bi.a.n ha results from the diminution of the supply of blood