69 AMPUTATION. crossed each otiier, and were attached to the broad leather strap siirroundiiig the thigh. Some excellent precepts on amputation were de- livered by J. L. Petit. He improved the tourni- quet; and instead of the large crooked amputating knife, formerly employed, first brought into use the straight, more moderate sized knives with sharp backs, now seen in the hands of the best surgeons, because much better calculated than crooked knives lor dividing the flesh by a sawing movement, which is the only right and siu'gical way of attempting to cut any part of the human body. He proved that making the division in the mortified parts was frequently followed by hemorrhage ; and for the suppression of bleeding, he thought it the best principle to promote the formation of a coagulum. {Mem. lie I'Acad. dcs Sciences, an. 1733, p. 285. See Hemorrhage.) For compressing the vessels he employed an instrument which covered the stump, like Verduin's retinaculum, and made pres- sure by means of a screw. His only objection to Verduin's method was, that the extension of gan- grene up the limb frequently hindered the forma- tion of so large a flap. He laid down the valuable general maxim of always removing as much bone, and as little flesh, as possible ; for which purpose, he invented what is termed the double incision, or dividing the business of cutting through the soft parts into two. stages. At some distance below the place where he meant to saw through the bones, he first made the circular cut through the integu- ments down to the muscles ; the skin was then pulled up so as to leave the flesh uncovered to the extent of an inch, and the muscles were now divided at the highest point of their exposure. Lastlj', the flesh was held out of the way with a retractor, and the bone was sawn through high enough up to allow of its extremity being well covered with flesh and integuments. The greatest defect in the doctrines of Petit, relative to amputation, was the confidence he put in pressure, instead of the ligature. {Traite des Malad. CIdr. vol. iii. p. 126.) The first performance of amputation at the shoulder joint, by Le Dran, and the improvements and alterations of that operation suggested by Ga- rengeot, De La Faye, Desault, Larrey, &c,, I shall notice in a future section. (See Amputation at the Shoulder-joint.) Verduin, in his method, formed only one flap. Ravaton and Vermale afterwards thought that it would be better to save a flap from each side of the limb. They were also advocates for tying the ves- sels, and bringing the two flaps into contact, so as to procure their speedy union, and hinder exfoli- tious and profuse suppuration. (Tiaitt desPlayes d^Armes a feu, par RavaLon, 8vo. Paris, 1750 ; De Im Faye, in Mem. de L'Acad. de Chir. t. v. ed. 12mo. ; Vermale, Obs. de Chir. 8vo. Manheim, 1767.) The multiplicity of machines, described by Verduin, La Faye, &c., had no other end but that of keeping the flap near the orifices of the vessels, 80 as to compress and close them. In consequence of the difficulty of making this compression pre- cisely as required, the most considerable vessels betvveen the two bones, when cut, generally be- coming retracted, Oarengeot determined to em- ploy ligatures. His first operation of this kind was an amputa- tion of the arm with two flaps. The bracliial artery was tied, and the patient cured without any exfo- liations. Garengeot operated also on a soldier dangerously wounded in the right foot by the bursting of a bomb, which fractured the interior part of the two bones of the leg, and several of the foot: the patient re- covered in twenty-seven days. A single flap was made. He rightly preferred dressing and band- aging the stump to the use of the compressing machines invented by Verduin and La Faye ; and his choice of a straight knife, instead of a crooked one, was equally judicious. The preceding case dictated a truth, which will last as long as surgery itself, viz. that it is advan- tageous to apply the liyatures in such a manner as to embrace no more than t/ie vessel, so that they may fall off ilia sooner, and the parts more quickly unite. {Oarengeot, in Mem. de I'Acad. de Chir. t. V. 12mo.) -At one time, an objection frequently urged against the foregoing methods, was, that, when the fresh cut flap was immediiitely laid over the stump, inflammation and abscesses were apt to ensue. Hence, in 1765, Sylvester O'Halloran, a surgeon at Limerick, was led to make the experiment of deferring laying down the flap till the end of the first eight or twelve days after the operation, when it was conjectured that the risk of inflammation and abscesses would be diminished. The tenor of O'Halloraii's book is apparently corroborated by the facts brought forward. Here we see one of the grand points insisted upon by our worthy countryman James Yonge, viz. the chance of an immediate union of the wound from laying down the flap without delay, suddenly given up, and because the wound could not always be healed without suppuration, it was determined that it never should do so. Alexander Monro, senior, disapproved of the tourniquet: he secured the vessels with needles and ligatures ; and was the inventor of a bandage, which has been extensively approved of, under the name of Monro's roller. (Medical Essays of Edinb. vol. iv. p. 257.) Bromfield, like Le Dran, restricted amputation to a few cases ; and he did not acknowledge its necessity, as a matter of course, in every case of gangrene, much less in every instance of white swelling, or caries. From a passage which I have cited fiom Dr. Rees's Cyclopaadia, it would seem that the tenaculum was known to the ancients • but Bromfield is allowed to be the first modern surgeon who employed this useful instrument. {Chir. Cases and Obs. vol. i. p. 41, 8vo Lend' 1773.) About the year 1742, the removal of thighs without bloodshed was a subject a good deal broached. A single case, recorded by Schaar- schmid where a mortified thigh separated without hemorrlu.ge, was the foundation of the scheme. Iho arteries were completely blocked up, and the parts insensible. {Haller, Bis. Chi,: vol. v. p. 155 ) A similar occurrence was related by Acrel {Chir. Handels. p. 557) ; and Lalouette jirofessed himself a believer in the security from licmorrhage, on account of the vessels being filled with coagula, and therefore he also approved of letting dead parts be removed, or rather fall ofi-; without bloodshed. (Haller, Dis. Chir. vol. v. p. 273.) In cases where the projecting bono of tho stump