286 subclavian arlery, on lite outside of the scalenus aiiticus,ihe patient is to lie on his back, with liis shoulders somewliat raised. The head and neck are to be turned towards the sound side, while an assistant depresses the shoulder, and raises the arm from the side. The first incision is to be made transversely, an inch above the clavicle, as Vel- peau directs, or near, or even upon it, as many other surgeons prefer, from the outer edge of the sterno- mastoid muscle to the front edge of the trapezius. After the integuments have been cut, the platysma myoides is to be divided. The external jugular vein itself may generally be drawn aside with a blunt hook ; but, if this cannot be readily done, a double ligature nnist be put under the vein and tied, after which it is to be cut through in the interspace. Then the cervical fascia is soon ex- posed, which is to be cautiously opened, by pinching a piece of it up with the forceps, and making a small opening, which is to be enlarged with the aid of a director. The edge of the sca- lenus anticiis can then be immediately felt under and within the sterno-mastoid muscle. After having lacerated or separated the cellular tissue, absorbent glands, &c., in the bottom of the wound with a probe, or a director, the- finger is conveyed towards the insertion of the scalenus anticus, where the tubercle of the first rib will be felt, a little behind and on the outside of which the artery is situated. When once the artery is found, it is not neces- sary to bring it into view ; for the nail being ap- plied to its posterior and external side, serves as a guide for the bent eye-probe or aneurism-needle, the point of which is to be passed from before, backwards, and a little from without inwards, the surgeon keeping his finger over the artery, be tween it and the lovi^ermost nerve of the brachial plexus, BO as to steady the vessel. (See Velpeau, Nouv. Elem. ^c. t. i. p. 229.) With reference to the ligature of the external iliac artery, 1 have but little to add to the account given of this subject in the article Aneurism. From the sacro-iliac symphysis, where the com- mon iliac artery bifurcates, down to the crural arch, the external iliac artery describes a gentle curve, which is more marked in the female than the rnale subject, and the convexity of which is turned outwards and backwards. The artery de- scends along the inner margin of the psoas muscle, to which it is connected by a thin membrane, derived from the iliac fascia, situated behind the artery. Although the production from the ihac iaacia is so thin that the artery and vein can be seen through it, yet it is sufficiently strong to preyent them from being displaced or separated. (See i/cwntw s Surgical Anat. of the Arteries, vol. ii. p. 117.) The vein lies to the inner side of the artery, and at first rather behind it ; but, near Poupart's liga- ment, it is on the same plane as the artery, resting upon the os pubis, and upon a few fibres of the psoas and pectineus muscles. The anterior crural nerve is on the iliac side of the artery, but on a plane posterior to it, and separated from it by the psoas between which and the iliacus interuus the nerve covered by the iliac fascia is imbedded. " Two or three small branches from this nerve, and from the lumbar plexus, are connected to the artery, and descend along its external side. Tliese branches are distributed to the spermatic cord and to the integuments of the groin. (See Harrison, op. cit.) Tlie ureter, in its descent behind the peritoneum, ARTERIES. \ crosses over the anterior surface of the external iliac artery at its commencement, and so does the vas deferens near its termination. As for the peri- toneum, it is connected to the external iliac artery merely by loose cellular tissue, and below quits the vessel entirely to be reflected over the posterior surface of the parietes of the abdomen. The only branches of importance, which the external iliac artery gives off, are the circuniflexa ilii and the epigastric, vvhich usually arise opposite the ilio- pectineal line, though sometimes a quarter or half an inch above, or below this point. The absorbent glands, which lie in the course of the external iliac artery, being sometimes enlarged, excite a suspicion of diseases which do not exist. On the right side, the coecuui, and, on the left, the sigmoid flexure of the colon, are the only viscera, interposed between the external iliac artery and the parietes of the abdomen. As MM. Bogros and Velpeau have noticed, nothing is easier, in a thin person, whose abdominal muscles are relaxed, than to make eff'ectiial pressure on this artery. M. Velpeau had an opportunity of ascertaining the truth of this observation in a young man, who met with an ac- cidental wound of the artery above the origin of the epigastric, requiring the injured vessel to be tied without delay. (See Velpeau, Nouv. Elem de Med. Oper. t. i. p. 172.) In Abernethy's method of tying the external iliac artery, an incision is made, about three inches and a half in length, in the direction of the artery, down to Poupart's ligament. The aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblique muscle being thus exposed, is to have an opening cautiously made in it; and a director being now introduced, the aperture is enlarged in the direction of, and to the same extent as, the wound in the integuments. " The internal oblique and transverse muscles, which are closely connected with each other, are to be carefully cut into at the lower part, so as to allow a di- rector, or the point of a finger, to be introduced below them, when they also are to be divided, the finger separating them from the iiiscia transversalis and peritoneum. The fascia transversalis, running from Poupart's ligament to the peritoneum, is now to be torn through with the nail, immediately over the pulsating arterj-, and the peritoneum is to be separated by the finger, and pushed upwards until sufficient room is obtained; which, in this, as well as in all other operations on the iliac arteries, is sometimes difficult, on account of the protrusion of the intestines, covered by the peritoneum, when the patient is not sufficiently tranquil. The artery is yet at some depth, and covered by a dense cellular membrane, "connecting it to the vein oh its inside, and which must be torn through with the nail. The aneurism-needle should be passed between the vein and the artery, and the^ point made to appear on the outside of the artery." (See Guthrie, On I)is. 4-c. of Arteries, p. 373.) This description, with the observations in the article Ankurism, will suffice to render Abernethy s plan very intelligible. to the account of Sir Astley Cooper s method of taking up the external iliac artery, given in that part of the Dictionary, I have nothing to add. In the article Ankurism, a description is given of the operation of tj/ing the femoral artery in the upper third of its course. If it were indispensable to apply a ligature to it in the groin, or ju^t below the crural arch, the surgeon should remember, that