7flO advantage in very large doses. It quiets the ner- vous irritability, and diminishes the action of the kidneys, its influence in the latter respect being most conspicuous when it occasions profuse perspi- rations. It very probably also counteracts hyper- semia of the liver, its utility in this respect being explained by Bernard's experiments. Bitter tonics and alkalies are also often useful. The bicarbonates of soda and potassa have been found to diminish the quantity of sugar. The preparations of iron are often indicated, and the protoiodide and the Tincl. Fern SesquicMoridi have proved particularly beneficial. Dr. Watson finds creosote useful; he considers that it checks the conversion of food into sugar. {Lectures, vol. ii. p. 611.) Henry Ancell. BiBLioG.—In addition to tbe more recent papers and works quoted in this article, consult the Cyclo- paed. of Practical Medicine, also Copland's Medical Dictionary, art. " Diabetes." GONORRHCEA. GOITRE. See Thyroib Gland. '^^ GONORRHCEA (from yov)], the semen, and peo", to flow). Etymologicallj', an involuntary discharge of the semen ; but always, according to modern surgery, a discharge of purulent infectious matter, from the urethra in the male, and from the vagina and surfaces of the labia, nymphs, cli- toris, urethra, and, as is alleged to have been made out by the late M. Cullerier, sometimes even from the lining of the uterus, in the female sub- ject. (See Diet, de Med. et de Cliir. Pratiques. t. iv. p. 149.) Dr. Swediaur, after censuring the etymological import, as conveying an erroneous idea, says, if a Greek name is to be retained, he would call it blennorrhagia, from ^Xivva, mucus, and pew, to flow. However, as most of the moderns consider the discharge as pus, not mucus, the etymological import of blenorrhoea is as objectionable as that of gonorrhoea. Mr. Hovvship has repeatedly examined the discharge with a microscope, but without per- ceiving any essential difference between such dis- charge and the pus effused from an ulcer. {On Complaints affecting the Secretion and Excretion of the Urine, p. 260.) In English, the disease is commonly called a c/fyj, from an old Frciuh word clapises, which were public shops, kept and in- habited by single prostitutes, and generally con- fined to a particular quarter of the town, as is even now the case in several of the great towns in Italy, In German the disorder is named ein tripper, from dripping ; and in French, 2i?ie diaudcpisse, from the heat and scalding in making water. Mr. Wallace, of Dublin, objects to the terms gonorrhaja.nnd blennorrhagia, and proposes to name the disease catarrhal primary syphilis. {On Vene- real Disease and its Varieties, p. 233. London, 8vo. 1833.) When an irritating matter of any kind is ap- plied to a secreting surface, it increases that secre- tion, and changes it from its natural state to some other. In the present instance, it is changed from mucus to pus. Till about the year 17.53, it was generally sup- posed that the matter from the urethra, in cases of gonorrhcea, arose from ulcers in the passage ; but about that time it was ascertained that P'ls might be secreted without a breach of siib- Uance. It was first accidentally proved by dis- section, that pus might be formed in the sac of the pleura, witliout ulceration : and Mr. Hunter afterwards examined the urethra of malefactors and others, who had been executed, or died while known to be affected with gonorrhoea, and demonstrated that the canal may be entirely free from every appearance of ulcer. The time when a gonorrhoea first appears, after infection, is extremely various. It generally comes on sooner than a chancre. Mr. Hunter had reason to believe that, in some instances, the disease began in a few hours ; while, in others, six weeks previously elapsed ; but he had known it begin at all the intermediate periods. How- ever, it was his opinion that about six, eight, ten, or twelve days after infection, are the most common periods. In an immense majority of cases, MM. Ratier and Cullerier have foundthe period between the third and seventh day after coition as that in which a gonorrhoea most fre- quently commences. (See Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Pratiques, art. Blennorrhagie.) The internal surface of the urethra is subject to inflammation and suppuration, from various other causes besides the venereal poison; and sometimes discharges happen spontaneousl}', when no imme- diate cause can be assigned. Such discharges may be called simple gonorrhoea, having nothing of a specific infection in them. MM. Cullerier and Ratier assert that an in- tense gonorrhoea may occur from venereal excess, between two individuals whose genitals are per- fectly sound, and that either one or both parties may experience the disorder. They declare that they have had many opportunities of verifying this fact. Amongst other patients, they visited one woman who apparently enjoyed perfect health, and yet communicated gonorrhcea to all who had connexion with her. They mention also a girl who gave a most severe clap to a yoiuig man," though she never had had any venereal complaint herself, and was found on examination to be quite free from disease. (See Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Pra- tiques, art. Blennorrhagie.) These statements agree with those made many years ago by several surgeons of the British army. (See A^enerkax> Disease.) I may here observe, however, that the secretions from the pudenda maj- not be licalthj-, and yet no appearances of disease may admit of detection even by ocular examination of the parts. Mr. Hunter knew of cases in which tlie urethra sympathised with the cutting of a tooth, and all the symptoms of a gonorrhoea were produced. This happened several times to the same patient. The urethra has been suspected to be sometimes the seat of gout; and Mr. Hunter was acquainted with instances of its being the seat of rheumatism. These occurrences MM. Cullerier and Ratier have never noticed, and when they do happen, are deemed by them to be merel}' accidental coinci- dences. (See Diet, de Med. ct de Chir. Pratiques, art. Blennorrhagie.) Mechanical and chemical irritations of the urethra, or of those surfaces of the female pudenda which are the seat of gonorrhosa, may excite n purulent discharge. Contusion and forcible dis- tension of the female pudenda will bring it on- cases of violation of female children, a discharge usually follows ; and hence the person accused ot the crime, is commonly alleged to have been guilty the mjurect pariy. B';'' importance as a subject of medical jurisprudence _ , _ o — also of infecting the injured pnrty.