071 FEVER. profoundly disturbed ; low muttering delirium, twitching, and the other well-known symptoms which usher in death. That these symptoms arise, not from exhaustion, as Hunter thought, but from poison, was distinctly believed long before Plunter, but was proved ex- perimentally by M. Bonnet of Lyons, in a paper published in the Gazette Medicah, and translated in the London Medical Gazette for 1837, (vol. xxi. p. 490, On the absorption of pus tvJiich Jias been in contact with the atmosphere.) M. Bonnet shows that the foetor of putrid pus depends on the presence of sulphide of ammonium, which cannot be detected in it by ordinary tests, because the presence of albumen sets at nought all the ordinary metallic reactions. The same with the blood and urine. But if test papers be exposed to the vapour o/'Mcp!«s, raised if necessary by heat, all the reactions are exhibited perfectly. He gives the following case:— A man received a severe bruise of the ankle. Gangrene of the skin and subcutaneous tissues followed. The pus had an indescribable foetor, and gave off vapours which restored reddened litmus and blacked lead paper. So soon as the sores were bathed with this fetid pus, on the 10th day " he was seized with rigors, which having lasted an hour, were followed by fever, with extreme ac- celeration of the pulse, and abundant sweats. The febrile attacks were repeated imtil the 14th day, sometimes in the morning and sometimes in the evening. At a later period they were no longer preceded by a sensation of cold, and were merely characterised by fever and sweating. These fits were accompanied by a very fetid diarrhcea, the loss of strength became extreme, and the face of a paleness slightly tinged with yellow." On the 16th day a large quantity of sulphide of ammonium was detected in the pus. On the 17th a small quantity of blood was taken, more fluid than usual, and of the colour of wine lees when sligh tly wetted. It gave off vapours of ammonia, as dis- covered by a glass rod dipped in hj'drochloric acid ; and of sulphuretted h3'drogen likewise. The urine was clear, pale, with no sediment, and alkaline ; its vapour gave the same reactions as that of the blood. In another week, the fcetor of the pus abated, and the urine recovered its acidity. Dr. T. Herbert Barker's experiments on the in- halation of cesspool vapours, and of sulphide of ammonium, give precisely similar results—excited circulation and thirst, twitching of the limbs, and dry dark tongue : after death the blood was found dark and ill coagulated ; the corpuscles dissolved, and congestion of fluid blood in the vascular organs. (0« Injluence of Sewer Emanations, iS'anitari/ lie- view, 1 !558, Ealracl fromFothcryiLiian Prize Essay.) Dr, Richardson, who obtained the Astley-Cooper prize for his essay on the Coagulation of the Blood, and whose zealous prosccuti(m of experimental re- Bcarch is well known, has the following observations on this subject:— " In cases where putrid matter is imbedded in the system, as when deep seated abscesses, open by listuliuis canals to the air, exist in the organism, and contain pus in a state of partial decomposition, ammonia is fully generated by decomposition of the putrid material, and is sometimes, I have reason to suspect, when the exit for the pinulent matter is not free, absorbed by the surrounding tissues, and taken up into the blood. Here received, the toxical effect is not slow in being developed, and the ' typhoid ' which succeeds is the result, not of so-called irritation, not of exhaustion from the drain, but of poison generated in the cavity and conveyed from it to the body at large." {On the Coagulation of the Blood, Land. 1858, p. 353.) The effect of a too alkaline state of the blood is shown in these cases by the corpuscles, whith be- come crenate, many-sided, collapsed, or even dis- solved. To sum up our observations on the varieties of hectic fever: we have shown that there is one division of so-called hectic in which the symptoms depend upon intrinsic blood changes, which are caused by mal-assimilatinn, and which often accom- pany the beginning of tubercular and other deposits. Such feverish symptoms are very irregular, and may be so slight as to merge into mere cachexia. But there is another set of cases of hectic, de- pendent upon absorption of decaying or putrid pus. Probably, if such pus finds its way bodily into the blood-vessels, we shall have pyajmia. If its vapour or serum, then, according to the quantity and in- tensity of the matter absorbed, we may have the acute hectic, the milder common hectic, or the pu- trid variety. (See also Abscess, p. 9.)] [Tkeatment op the varieties op Hectic, We cannot undertake to detail the treatment of that sort which accompanies broken health in gen- eral, otherwise we should be here repeating matters which will be found under the head of chronic in- flammation and scrofula ; or which would embrace the whole treatment of disorders of mal-assimilation. But as regards the varieties of true hectic from absorption, the indications are palpably these two : first, to remove the local cause if possible, and whether or no to strengthen the system as much as possible. The first indication will be fulfilled if there be a deep abscess in the breast or perineum, or else- where, by giving free vent to the matter. " If," says Hunter, " the hectic arises fi'om local disease in such parts as the constitution can bear the re- moval of, then the diseased part should be removed by amputation." " I have known a hectic pulse at 120 sink to 90 in a few hours upon the removal of the hectic cause. I have known persons sleep sound the first night without an opiate, who had not slept tolerably for weeks before. I have known cold sweats stop immediately,as well as those called colliquative. I have known purging immediately stop upon the removal of the hectic cause, and the urine drop its sediment," Every sort of local treatment capable of relieving the particular local condition present is to be put into force. But in a condition of poisoning by sul- phide of ammonium, surgeons will do well to re- move or neutralise the matter whose decomposition furnishes that substance. Abscesses, therefore should be drained by M. Chassaignac's drain tubes' if they seem appropriate. Matter should not be allowed to bag or lodge, and adapinte chemical moans should bo adopted to deodorise any that remains. The writer lays stress on the word adei^ualo. Vexatious is it to see a man rotting with a jnitrid abscess, and having perhaps a tray of charcoal by his bed-side and a little chloride of lime on a rag outside the wound. S urely thoro urc clicinicn.1 inoans