248 However, Meibomius was much earlier in pro- posing, with the same intention, tlic extraction of one or more of the teeth, in order that the purulent matter might escape through the soclcets. Drake and, perhaps before him, Cowper, aware that the i'augs of the teeth did not reach completely into the antrum, proposed' making a perforation through the socket into that cavit}-, for the purpose of letting out the matter, and in- jecting such fluids as were judged proper. In the treatment of abscesses of the antrum, the extraction of one or more teeth, and the per- foration of the alveoli, being generally essential steps, the first question is, what tooth ought to be taken out. In general, caries, or even a mere continual aching of any particular tooth, ought to de- cide the choice. But if all the teeth should be sound, which is not often the case, writers direct us to tap each of them gently, and to extract that which gives most pain on this being done. When no informa- tion can thus be obtained, other circumstances ought to guide us. All the molar teeth, and the second bicuspid, correspond with the antrum. They even sometimes extend into this cavity, the fangs being then only covered by the pituitary membrane ; and the bony lamella, which separates the antrum from the alveoli is always very thin towards the back part of the upper jaw. Hence, when the choice is in our power, it is best to ex- tract the first or second molar, as in this situ- ation the alveoli can be more easily perforated. Though, in general, the first bicuspid and canine tooth do not commuriicaie with the antrum, their fangs approach the side of it, and from their sockets an openin'g may readily be extended into that cavity. When one or more teeth are carious, they should be removed, because they are both useless and hurtful. The matter frequently makes its escape, as soon as a tooth is extracted, in con- sequence of the fang having extended into the antrum, or rather in consequence of its bringing away with it a piece of the thin partition between it iind the sinus ; or the discharge may follow from the partition itself being carious. If the opening thus produced be sufficiently large to allow the matter to escape, the operation is already completed. But as it can easily be enlarged it ought always to be so when there is the least sus- picion of its being too small. However, when no pus makes its appearance after a tooth is extracted, the antrum must be opened by introducing a pointed instrument in the direction of the alveoli. For this purpose a trocar, an awl, or a gimlet, may be employed. Sir Benjamin Brodie prefers .m instrument, formed like a common hydrocele trocar, but a little larger, and of course without a cannular. " It should not be made of the best steel; for (says he) I once used a common trocar, made of steel, and it broke while I wag performing the operation. In this case, I extracted the broken portion very easily ; but such an accident might occur, and great difficulty be experienced in extracting tlie point of the instrument. When the bottom of the alveolus is broken down, the matter will readily escape from the antrum, and you may introduce a probe and explore the cavity, so as to ascertain whether there be in it any dead bone or not. Sometimes there is a piece of dead bone at the bottom of the alveolus, and then you have only to ANTRUM. wait patiently until an opportunity occurs for its removal. At other times you will feel the dead bone, after the probe has entered the antrum, and the opening already made may not be sufficient for its extraction. Under these last circumstances, the opening must either be enlarged, or another made in a different place." (Brodie, in Lond. Med. Gaz. fur Dec. For the performance of this operation some re- commend that the patient should sit on the ground, in a strong light, resting his head on the surgeon's knee, who is to sit behind him in a chair. Imme- diately the instrument has reached the cavity, it is to -be withdrawn. Its entrance into the antrum is easily known by the cessation of resist- ance. After the matter is discharged, surgeons advise the opening to be closed with a wooden stopper, in order to prevent the entrance of extra- neous substances. The stopper is to he taken out tivo or three times a day, to allow the pus to-escape. If there be no dead bone present, this plan soon disposes the parts affected to discontinue the suppuration and resume their natural state. The cure may often be accelerated by employing injections of weak brandy and water, lime water, or a solution of the sulphate of zinc. Two or three days after an opening lias been made into the antrum. Sir Benjamin Brodie begins to wash out the cavity, one or twice dailj',\vith tepid water, injected by means of a syringe with a slightly curved pipe. The water injected will now generally pass into the nostril, and the cavity can be very completely washed out. If the water does not pass out of the nose, it shows that the natural opening be- tween the two turbinated bones is blocked up. {Brodie, op. cit.) Some surgeons prefer a piece of bougie, or of elastic gum catheter, instead of the wooden stopper. The examples on record where the ex- traction of a tooth and perforation of the^ bottom of the antrum were the means of curing ab- scesses of that cavity are very numerous. (See Farmer's Select Cases, No. ix. ; Goocli's Cases, p. 63, new ed.; Palfijn, Analomie, &;c,; Brodie, op. cit.) When the bones are diseased, the smiple perfo- ration will not accomplish a cure. A probe wilj generally detect caries or necrosis. The foetid smell and ichorous appearance of the discharge will also leave little doubt that the bones are diseased. When there are loose pieces of dead bone or other foreign bodies to be extracted, it may be requisite to make a larger opening in the antrum than can bo obtained through the socket of a tooth. Instances also occur where patients have lost all the molar teeth, and the sockets are quite oblite- rated, so that a perforation from below cannot be eft'ected. Some practitioners object to sacrificing a sound tooth. In these circumstances, a perforation in the antrum may be made above the alveolar processes ; as first suggested by Lamoner. Ihe operation consists in making a transverse incision, below the malar jirocess and above the root of the lirst molar. Tluis the gum and periosteum are divided, and the bone exposed. A pernu-ating instrument is to be conveyed into the middle ot this incision, and the opening in the antrum made of tlie requisite size with a small pair of cut iiig pliers, or other convenient instrument. In this