'I't'^ CATHETER venience from it. On the whole, however, he commonly prefers removing the catheter. In this manner, he is of opinion, that the power of expel- ling the urine again is soonest acquired. The preceding question is often determined by the nature of the disease; and, as Mr. Hunter ob- serves, in cases of debility of the bladder, and where a catheter passes with difficulty, or with great uncertainty, as well as in other instances in which it must be used frequently, and for a length of time, it will be necessary to keep it introduced, so as to allow the water to pass freely through it {O/i the Ven. Bis. edit. 2, p. 191. ) ° In the majority of retentions of urinefrom diseased prostate gland, Sir Benjamin Brodie deems it pru dent to allow the catheter to remain. " If you remove it, so abundant is the flow of urine, which immediately takes place from the kidneys, that you will find the bladder loaded, and requiring the reintroduction of the catheter, within five or six, perhaps even within three or four hours. It will be necessary to use the catheter again, after another short interval; and it will often happen, when there has been no difficulty in the first intro- duction of it, that there is considerable difficulty afterwards." {Brodie, OnDis. of the Urin. Ornans, p. 148, ed. 2.) In France, a conical silver catheter {sonde coni que) has sometimes been employed in difficult cases by Boyer, Roux, &c. This instrument has a very slight curvature, and an extremity almost pointed. By force, regularly applied, it is intro- duced into the bladder in spite of all opposition. Care is taken to keep it in the centre of the pas sage, and the direction of its point is judged of by the position of the lateral rings. The rule men tioned by Roux, for commencing the great depres sion of the outer extremity of the instrument, is when, by the finger in the rectum, the point can be felt to have reached the apex of the prostate. (See Sicetches of the Medical Schools of Paris, by J. G. Crosse, p. 112.) In bad cases, the conical catheter is usually allowed to remain introduced three or four days: and on being withdrawn, a small gum catheter generally admits of being used. The forcible manner in which the conical silyer catheter has been employed, must have often caused great and dangerous mischief. Thus, in two exam- ples, whicli were witnessed and examined by M. Roux himself after the decease of the patients, a false passage had been made, no gum catheter could be passed, the urine was effused in the cellular membrane, and the parts were gangrenous. (See p. lie of the above work.) 1 have heard of instances, in which John Hunter employed great force with the silver catheter, and overcame the. obstruction. I have seen Mr. Pearson (who generally treated strictures as mildl}-, and, I need hardly say, as successfully, as any man) take a steel sound, and pass it gradually and forcibly on into the bladder, at the same time feeling his way, as it were, by keeping one finger in the rectum: the relief of the patient, and the ultimate cure of the disease, were the results of this practice." (P. 118.) The conical silver catheter has been used by Sir A. Cooper. Without altogether condemning tlio occasional em- ployment of this instrument, 1 perfectly coincide with Mr. Crosse, that it is one, with which young "len, of little caution and no experience, may do niore hai'm in the first few cases they meet with. than the rest of their life will afford them oppor- tunities of doing good. Mr. Hunter refers to instances, in which the- common catheter had been pushed throuch the projectmg part of the prostate gland into the blad- der, and the water then drawn off; but, « in one patient, the blood from the wound passed into the bladder, and increased the quantity of its contents. The use of the catheter was attempted a second time; but, not succeeding, I was sent for. I passed the catheter till it came to the stop, and then, sus- pecting that this part of the prostate projected forwards, I introduced my finger into the anus, and found that gland very much enlarged. By depressing the handle of the catheter, which of course raised the point, it passed over the projec- tion; but unfortunately the blood had'coagulated in the bladder, wliich filled up the holes in the cathe- ter, so that I was obliged to withdraw it, and clear it repeatedlj-. This I practised several days ; but, suspecting that the coagulum must in the end kill, I proposed cutting him (the patient) for the stone; but he died before it could be conveniently done, and the dissection, after death, explained the case," &c. {On the Ven. Dis. ed. 2, p. 172.) To a surgeon duly acquainted with anatomy, the introduction of the female catheter is exceed- ingly simple. From motives of delicac}', the in- strument should be passed without any exposure. The surgeon should hold the catheter in his right hand, while he introduces the forefinger of his left hand between the nympha;, so as to feel upon the upper surface of the vaginal passage the little papilla, which surrounds, and denotes to the touch, the precise situation of the orifice of the meatus urinarius. Holding the concavity of the catheter forward, the surgeon, guided by the forefinger of his left hand, is then to introduce the instrument upward into the bladder. A female catheter should always be furnished with some contrivance to prevent its slipping completely into the bladder: the following case, mentioned in a respectable peri- odical work, fully proves the truth of this remark : Some years ago, a surgeon, practising in the country, was required to introduce the catheter for a lady labouring under retention of urine. During the operation he was observed to exhibit signs of confusion, and to quit his patient in con- siderable embarrassment. The same daj' he ab- ruptly left his home, and was never seen afterwards. The lady passed several years of dreadful suffering, attributed, by herself .and the professional gentle- man on whom the treatment of the case devolved, to aggravation of the original complaint. At length an abscess presented itself in the sacral region, and the surgeon punctured it, when his instrument came in contact with some unusually hard sub- stance imbedded in the centre of the abscess. With a pair of forceps, he now extracted, to his utter astonishment, a blackened female catheter. From this period, the lady's sufferings all ter- minated. A similar accident nearly happened in the practice of another gentleman. (See Pkostatk Gland; Urethra; and Urine, Retentioxof.) Medico-Chir. Jonrn. vol. v. p. 75. Lond. 1818. J. Hunter, On the Venereal Disease, ed. 2. in various places, i/t'^'i- rrnctical Obs. in Surgery, Bell's Principles, vol. Schools M' Sir Wuudarzuoyl