499 DISLOCATION. " At one time we find it so completely removed, that not a vestige of large masses of it remains; and, on other occasions, great additions arc made to the original bone, to serve useful purposes. Agiiin, without either increase or diminution of the quantity of osseous matter, we find the bone to be, as it were, so completely new modelled, that its acquired shape has scarcely any resemblance to its former figure. In the present dissection, the ace- tabulum was ftearly removed ; a new plate of bone for the formation of an articulating surface was deposited on the ilium, and the head of the femur was completely remodelled." (See Wallace in Trans, of Kiny's and Queen's College, Dublin, vol. v. p. 250, &c.) When the head of a bone is throw and left for a certain time upon a thick stratum of muscular fibres, a new capsular ligament may form for its enclosure ; but when it is thrown upon a thin layer of muscle, or upon the surface of a bone, the muscle may be absorbed, and a new bony socket or cavity be produced, as explained by Sir Astley Cooper. Even when the humerus has been thrown forwards on the ulna, new osseous deposits are sometimes arranged in such a manner on the latter as to con- stitute an articular cavity for the reception and support of the lower end of the humerus. Of this there is an interesting representation given by Cru- veilhier. (See Anat. Pathologique.) Sometimes, when the head of the humerus remains dislo- cated in the axilla, a new articular cavity is formed for it below the neck of the scapula. Treatment of Dislocations in general. It was correctly explained by Pott, that the difficulty which attends the reduction of luxated joints principally arises from the resistance of the muscles. " The mere bones composing the articu- lations, or the mere connecting ligaments, would in general afford very little opposition ; and the replacing the dislocation would require very little trouble or force, was it not for the resistance of the muscles and tendons attached to and connected with them : for, by examining the fresh joints of the human body, we shall find, that they not only are all moved by muscles and tendons, but also that although what are called the ligaments of the joints do really connect and hold thorn together in such manner as could not well be executed without them, yet, in many instances, they are, when stripped of all connection, so weak and la,Y, and so dilatable, that they do little more than connect the bones and retain the synovia ; and tliat the strength, as well as the motion, of the joints depends, in great measure, on the muscles and tendons connected with and passing over them ; especially in those articulations which are designed for the greatest quantity, as well as for celerity, of motion. Hence, muscles require our first and greatest regard, these being the parts whose resistance must be either eluJed or overcome." (See Foil's Chir. Works, vol. i.) That the muscles are the chief cause of resist- ance is proved by cases in which the dislocation is accompanied with injury of a vital organ ; for then the bone may be reduced by a very slight force. Thus, in a man who had an injury of his jejunum and a dislocation of his hip, the bone was most easily replaced. {Sir A. Cooper, Surgical Essays, part i. p. 20.) In short, anything which produces faintness or weakness facilitates the reduction, as intoxication, nausea and sickness, paralysis, &c. The following are some of the principles laid down by Pott;— 1. Although a joint may have been luxated by means of considerable violence, it does by no means follow that the same degree of violence is necessary for its reduction. 2. When a joint has been luxated, at least one of the bones of which it is composed is detained in that unnatural situation by the action of some of the muscular parts in connection with it ; which action is not under the direction of the will of the patient. 3. That all the force used in reducing a luxated bone ought always to be applied to the other ex- tremity of the said bone, and, as much as possible, to that only. Mr. Pott argues, that if the extend- ing force were applied to a distant part of the limb, or to the bone below or adjoining, it would neces- sarily be lost in the articulation which is not lux- ated, owingto the yielding nature of the ligaments, and be of little or no service in that which is dis- located. This remark, though made by Pott, and generally received as true, is incorrect; for it tends to state, that if extension be made at the ankle or wrist, the force does not operate on the hip or shoulder. 4. That in order to make use of an extending force with all possible advantage, and to excite thereby the least pain and inconvenience, it is necessary that all parts serving to the motion of the dislocated joint, or in any degree connected with it, be put into such a state as to give the smallest possible degree of resistance. 5. That in the reduction of such joints as con- sist of a round head, moving in an acetabulum or socket, no attempt ought to be made for replacing the said head, until it has by extension been brought forth from the place where it is, and nearly to a level with the said socket. 6. That whatever kind or degree of force may be found necessary for the reduction of a luxated joint, that such force be employed gradually ; that the lesser degree be always first tried, and that it be increased gradatim. (See Foil's Chir. Works, vol. i.) The supposition of the reduction being some- times prevented by the capsular ligaments. Sir A, Cooper considers erroneous ; in dislocations from violence, those ligaments are always extensively lacerated ; and tiie idea of the neck of the bone being girt, or confined by them, is altogether un- true. {Surg. Essays, part i. p. 18.) But, in ad- dition to the resistance of the muscles, there are in old dislocations, three circumstances pointed out by Sir A. Cooper as causes of the difficulty of re- duction:— 1. Tlie extremity of the bone contracts adhesion to the surrounding parts, so that in dis- section, even wlicn the muscles are removed the bone cannot be reduced. In this state, he found the liead of a radius, which had been long dis- located upon the external condyle, and which is preserved in the collection of St. Thomas's Hos- pital. In a similar state, lie has .ilso seen the dis- located head of the humerus. (Ok Dislocations, p. 2(J.) 2. The socket is sontetimes filled up with adhesive matter. 3. A new bony socket is some- times formed, in which the head of the bone is so completely confined, that it could not be extricated without breaking its new lodgment. {Surgical Essays, part i, p. 21 ; and Treatise, ^-c. p. 10 ) li K 2