•22() ployiTicnt of small Ijleeilings from time to time. Tlie diet recommended by Dr. Bellingham, con- sisting of two ounces of bread and butter for break- fast; two ounces of bread and the same quantity of meat, for dinner; and two ounces of bread forsupper, with a little milk and water, is perhaps the best on which patients of this class can be placed. 2. When aneurism occurs in feeble, cachectic, or anffimic individuals, the object is to improve the plasticity of the blood, at the same time that the irritability of the heart is lessened. This is usually best effected by putting them on a dry diet, by the administration of opiates, and of iron. In all cases bodily exertion and mental excitement must be carefully avoided.] Intracranial Aneurism. [Aneurisms within the cranium may arise from any of the arteries that are met with in this situa- tion, though some are much more liable than others to the occurrence of this disease. Wherever situ- ated, however, they are of rare occurrence. Of twenty-seven cases of this disease, I find 10 affecting the basilar artery. 5 ,, anterior cerebral. 3 „ one internal carotid. 1 „ at junction of internal carotid and posterior communicating. 2 „ anterior communicating. 1 „ posterior cerebral. 2 „ both internal carotids. 1 posterior communicating. 1 „ artery of the corpus callosum. 1 „ branch of the meningeal arterj'. The greater frequency of this disease in the basilar artery may probably be dependent on its larger size, and the consequently greater impetus of the blood to it. Intracranial aneurisms are almost always formed by the uniform dilatation of the whole of the calibre of the artery ; the false or sacculated variety b«ng rarely if ever met with. I am not acquainted with any mention of this. The coats of the ar- teries in this situation being very thin and un- provided with any external cellular sheaths that would support the impetus of the blood, rupture of the vessel would rather occur than partial dilata- tion if one portion only of the circumference were diseased. Occasionally, though more rarely, the di- latation is fusiform ; of this a preparation in Uni- versity College Museum, is a good illustration. When it does occur, it is probably confined to the basilar artery. The disease would appear to be of slow growth, and the sac becomes filled with lamellated coagula, sometimes so completely as to occlude the orifice of the artery from which it springs. The size the disease in this situation attains before death results, is sometimes considerable; thus, in a case that occurred some years ago at the University College Hospital of aneurism of tlio basilar artery, the tumor was nearly as large as a walinit; in another case it somewhat exceeded this size. Mr. Smith, in the Dnblin Jouni. vol. xxv. mentions a case of miiltilocular aneurism of the left posterior cerebral artery as largo as a small apple, and Serrcs one as largo as a hen's egg. On the other liand, it occasionally proves fiital by rupture, before having reached beyond a very small size, not larger than a pea or nut. It is seldom that more than one of the arteries ANEURISM. of the brain suffers aneurismal dilatation. In the Museum of the College of Surgeons, however, are the preparations (Nos. 1687 and 1688) of an aneurismal dilatation of both internal carotid ar- teries resembling " two bulbs about five-eighths of an inch in diameter, filling up the hollow on each side of the sella turcica, which were evidently dila- tations of the carotid arteries, and from their being filled with ]amina3 of coagulated blood there could be no doubt of their being aneurisms. Of these aneurisms, the one on the left side was largest. That on the right side communicated with the cavity of the artery, which was not the case with the other." A case occurred in University College Hospital some years ago, under the care of Dr. Thomson, in which a somewhat similar condition existed. A man, forty-nine years of age, had fallen on his head some months before admission into the Hos- pital ; since then he had been garrulous, and very irritable, becoming readily intoxicated. He suddenly became insensible and convulsed, with vomiting and laborious breathing; be could close both eyes, but the right pupil was dilated ; the left side was paralysed. He was treated for apoplexy, got slightly better, but died in ten days from the first attack. On examination, an aneurism a little larger than a hazel nut was found on the trunk of the right carotid, where it gives off the middle cerebral artery, and another small one on the curve of that artery. There was a globular aneurism on the same artery on the opposite side. The basilar artery was thickened, white, and opaque, as was also the other larger arteries of the brain. There was softening of both anterior cerebral lobes, espe- cially the right one. The arteries of the brain are very commonly healthy in these cases; out of four instances of intracranial anemism that have fallen under my observation, the other vessels of the brain have been healthy in three cases, and atheromatous in but one. In one case I have seen aneurism within the cranium associated with aneurism elsewhere, —in the thoracic aorta. The causes of intracranial aneurism are very obscure. It may be supposed that the compara- tively small diameter of the arteries within the cranUim would render them little liable to the occurrence of spontaneous aneurism, were it not that the anatomical characters and physiological, relation of these vessels predispose considerably to the occurrence of this affection, there being no other set of arteries in the body of the same size as those within the cranium, in which spon- taneous aneurism so frequently occurs. This can only bo accounted for by the thinness of their coats, and the want of an external cellular sheath rendering them unable to support the increased pressure from within, to which they arc occasion- ally subjected in consequence of the alteration m the pressure of the cerebral circulation at diflorent periods, the rcs.ilt of some variation in the rela- tive quantities of the different lluuls withni the cranium, or of determination of blood to the brain. This would more particularly be the case if their natural elasticity had already been impaired bj the occurrence of atheromatous or other degenera- tion of their coats. As these changes arc t'« "•''t"'"' conseriucnccs of advance in age, we shall lintl tlie tcndencv to the occurrence of this disease increase with advancing years. Thus of nineteen cases in