FRACTURE. 719 the " fracture through the tubercles or at the anatomical neck"—(See A. Cooper, On Fraclurcs ^■c.cd. by B. Cooper, p. 427)—but which really be- long to the fracture of the surgical neck, or to the epiphysary disjunction, which is the same thing.] Treaiment of fniclures of the suryical neck of the humerus..—The reduction takes place Of itself, on employing a very little force, methodically directed. If the surgeon put his hands on the situation of the fracture, it is rather to examine the state of the ends of the broken bone, than to accomplish a thing seldom required, namely, what is implied by the term coaptation. In the treatment, the three indications are, 1. To render the arm and shoulder immovable : 2. To bring outward the lower end of the fracture; 3. To draw downward the same. [These objects may be accomplished by the ap- plication of four splints; one on the anterior, one on the posterior, one on the outer, and one on the inner side of the limb; the three first mentioned should extend as high|as the acromion, but that on the inner side must of course cease at the axilla. These splints may be retained either by a bandage or by straps and buckles, and when they have been adjusted, a wedge-shaped cushion should be placed, with its base upwards, in the axilla, and the arm then bandaged to the side. The cushion is for the purpose of pressing outwards the lower end of the fracture, and to prevent its being drawn in- wards towards the chest by the action of the mtiscles. Sir A. Cooper recommended two splints, one anteriorly and one posteriorlj^ with a pad in the axilla, and the arm fixed to the side by the clavicular bandage ; the hand and not the elbow to be supported by a sling, as if the elbow be raised, the upper end of the bone projects forward, or the fragments, if the fracture is oblique, may be made to overlap, while, on the other hand, if the arm is allowed to hang by the side unsup- ported at the elbow, the weight of the arm is a constant source of extension upon the broken end of the bone. {On Dislocations, p. 430, 434.) Mr. Tyrrell states that in one instance, in which he could not otherwise succeed in removing the deformity, he found the bone maintained its natural position when raised and s'.ipported at a right angle with the side ; he therefore applied a rectangular splint, one portion of which rested against the side of the patient whilst the arm reposed upon the other part, and in this way he succeeded in retaining the pieces in their proper relative positions. Tills case is worthy of attention, for the position, though no doubt irksome to the patient, is very advantageous as regards the position of tlie upper fragment, when as very frequently happens, it is directed outvvards by the action of the capsular muscles ; and since, from the small size of this piece and its deep situation, it is ahuost inipossil)lc to act upon it directly, tlio only way to remedy the deformity is to raise the sliaft of the bone until the axes of both pieces are made to correspond.] 2. Fracture of the anatomical neck of the humerus. —Indisputable facts prove the possibility of the anatomical neck of the bono being fractured, and C. Larbaud showed IJichat the linnienis of a young man, aged 17, the head of which bone was accurately detached from its body by a division which had passed obliquely through the upper part of the tuberosities. Another example, proved by dissection, was recorded by Delpecli. {Chirurgie Clinique.) An instance of this kind was pointed out to me in the spring of 1821, in St. Bartholo- mew's Hospital. Tlie patient was a boy, whose elbow had been strongly kept up, on the supposi- tion that the case was a fracture of the neck of the scapula, and, consequent!}', the irregular end of the humerus formed a remarkable projection in front of the acromion, yet capable of being pushed back, where, however, it would not re- main. [In addition to these cases, there is now abun- dant evidence of the occurrence of this injur}'-, though it is much more rare than fracture of the surgical neck. It may be completely intracapsular, the head of the bone being detached from the shaft and tuberosities, and lying loose in the cavity of the joint ; or it may include a portion of one or both tuberosities, and it will then be partly an intracapsular, and partly an extra- capsular fracture. The signs of this injury are somewhat obscure ; it is always caused by direct violence, such as a severe blow or fall on the point of the shoulder ; after which the patient loses all power to move the limb, and though the surgeon can readily do so, yet very severe pain is caused by the attempt. Usually there is not much displacement, the muscles attached to the tuberosities counteract the influence of those inserted into the margins of the bicipital groove, and retain the upper end of the bone in its place. The fractured surfaces, therefore, remain in contact, and crepitus may be felt when the arm is moved. The impairment of the motions of the joint and crepitus are in fact, as Mr. Smith observes, al- most the only direct symptoms upon which the surgeon can depend, but his opinion will be strengthened^ by the absence of the signs of any of the other injuries occmring in this region, and by finding that all the neighbouring prominences of bone retain their proper relations to each other. Sometimes, however, the shaft of the bone is drawn a little forwards and inwards towards the coracoid process, and there will then be a project- tion at the anterior part of the joint, and a corre- sponding depression posteriorly under tlie acro- mion. In most cases there is severe contusion of the soft parts covering the joint, and the swelling arising from this cause may add materially to the difHcuity of the diagnosis. In this case also, as in the extracapsular frac- ture, the fragments may become impacted, but it is now the superior piece which is the smaller, and which is driven into tlio inferior or larger bet ween tlie tuberosities, one or other of which processes is usually at the same time broken oif or bent outwards from the shaft. Mr. R. W. Smith thus describes the symptoms of the intracapsular impacted fracture, which arc more marked than those of the simple or non-impacted variety. " The arm is slightly shortened, the acromion process projects more than natural, and the shoulder has lost to a certain ex- tent its rounded form; the upper extremity of the sliaft of the humerus is ajiproximated to tlic acro- mion, and the entire of the globular head of the bone cannot be felt. In consequence of the ac- companying fracture of the tuberosity crepitus can be readily detected, when the shoulder is grasped with moderate firmness and the arm rotated. The absence of a rounded tumor in the axilla, and the