678 sence of fluid jn parts, or being endued with the tacius eruditus, as it is termed, distinguishes the man ot experience as remarkably, perhaps, as any quality that can be specified. _ When the collection of fluid is very deeply situated, the fluctuation is frequently obscure, and sometimes not at all distinRiiisliable. In this cir- cumstance the presence of the fluid is to be .^scer- tained by the consideration of other sjrmptoms. For example, in cases of hydrops pectoris and em- pyema, surgeons do not expect to feel the undula- tion of the fluid in the thorax with their fingers ■ they consider the patient's difficulty of breathins' the uneasiness attending his lying upon one parti- cular side, the oedema of the parietes of the chest the dropsical affection of other parts, the more raised and arched position of the ribs on the affected side the preceding rigors, fever, and several other cir- cunistances, capable of being learned with the aid of the stethoscope, from which a judgment is formed, both with regard to the presence and the peculiar nature of the fluid. FOMENTATION. The application of flannel or cloths wet with warm water, or some medicinal decoction. Fomentations are chiefly of use in re- lieving pain and inflammation, and in promoting suppuration, when this is desirable. Some parti- cular decoctions, however, are used for fomentations with the view of affecting, by means of their medi- cinal qualities, scrofulous and other sores of a specific nature. I shall merely subjoin a few of the most useful fomentations in common use FOMENTUM AMMOMI^ HYDRO- CHLORATIS. 9,. Fomenti communis ft ij Ammon. Hydroch, 5 j. Spirit, camph. g ij. Just before using the hot decoction, add to it the hydro- chlorate ot ammonia and spirit. FOMENTUM CHAMyEMELI. ^ Lini contusi 3j. Chamaemeli gij. Aq. distillat. ft vj. Paulisper coque, et cola. A fomentation in very common use. FOMENTUM CONII. 9. Fol. conii recent. m J. vel. Fol. conii exsiccat. giij. Aq. comm. IB iij. Coque usque reman, ft j. et cola. Some- times applied to scrofulous, cancerous, and phage- denic ulcers. FOMENTUM GALL^. J!, Gallfe contu- se, 5ss. Aq. ferventis ftij. Macera per horam et cola. Used in prolapsus ani, and sometimes employed as a cold application in hffimorrlioids. FOMENTUM PAPAVERIS ALBI. JE, Papav. Alb. exsiccati, 5 iv. Aq. pur. ft vj. Bruise the poppies, put tiiem in the water, and boil the liquor, till only two quarts remain, which are to be strained. Employed for the relief of pain, whether from inflammation, neuralgic affections, ulcers, &e. FORCEPS, an instrument much employed in surgery for a variety of purposes, and having ac- cordingly various constructions. The general design, however, of surgical forceps is to take hold of substances which cannot be conveniently grasped reached with the fingers; and, of course, the instiument is always formed on the principle of a Pnir of pincers, having two ijlades, cither with or without handles, according to circnmstances. The Bmallest lorceps is that which is employed in the operation of extracting cataract, and which is useful tor removing any particles of opaque matter from i 'o P"l"''il'c chief part of the crystalline lena "ns Oeen taken away. FRACTURE. Another forceps, of larger size, is that used for taking up the mouths of the arteries, when these vessels require a ligature, in cases of hemorrhage This instrument is also frequently employed for taking dressings off sores, removing pieces of dead hone, foreign bodies from wounds, and particularlv for raising the fibres which are about to be cut, \u all operations where careful dissection is required ihis forceps resembles that which is contained in every case of dissecting instruments, and is often called the artery or dissecting forceps, from its more important uses. Neither of the foregoing forceps is made with handles ,• each opens by its own elasticity ; and the ends of the blades only come into contact when pressed together by the surgeon. The following kinds of forceps are constructed with handles, by means of which they are both opened and shut:— 1. The common dressing forceps, contained in every pocket-case of surgical instruments, and used for removing dressings from sores, extracting dead pieces of bone, foreign bodies, &c. 2. Larger forceps, employed for extracting polypi from the nostrils, or foreign bodies from the pharynx. 3. Forceps of different sizes and constructions, used in the operation of lithotomy, for taking the stone out of the bladder, or for breaking the cal- culus, wiien it is too large to be extracted in an entire state. 4. Cutting forceps, as the common bone-nippers, with transverse edges, and the sharp forceps, made with the edges in the same line with the handles, used by Mr. Listen, and others, for the division of bones. FRACTURE. A solution of continuity of one or more bones, produced in general by external force ; but occasionally, by the powerful action of muscles, as is often exemplified in the broken patella. Fractures constitute so interesting a branch of surgery, and the accidents themselves are so fre- quent and important, that the more scientific and successful views now entertained of the whole sub- ject, than those prevalent forty or fifiy years ago, mnst be highly gratifying to every admirer of the incessant progress of snrgery^ towards jierfection. Nor is this branch of surgery simply mechanical, or restricted to the consideration of bandages, splints, and other apparatus ; but comprises ques- tions and investigations not surpassed, in respect to their scientific character, by anj- others in the whole range of surgery. Let it not be any longer supposed, tliereforc, that the treatment of fractures is only a mechani- cal business. In fact, whoever pretends to be capable of conducting it efficiently, without a due acquaintance with anatomy and pathology, and the )iriiiciples on which inflammation, abscesses, gangrene, wounds, ulcers, erysipelas, hajinorrhage, and various febrile disturbances of the consti- tution should bo treated, must absolutely be a simpleton, or an impostor ; for all these com- plications frequently accompany or follow frac- tures. Under such circumstances, what man of common sense would trust his limb and life to a mere bone-setter ? But the sequel of this article will enable the reader to judge of the truth of these observations.