i iiswered. Fiu-ther experience is requisite to de- i imine whether Assalini's compressor would suc- ' L'(l as often as, or more frequently than, the scientific application of the riglit kind of ligatures (see Ligatuke), which may perhaps seem slower in their effect, only because they are not in ge- neral removed as early as Assalini's instrument. In fact, the experiments of Mr. Travers have now proved that the ligature is the quickest in its opera- tion. (See Med. Cldr. Trans, vol. vi. p. C43, &c.) In 1816, some ingenious observations were pub- lished by Mr.^Crampton, on the effects of the ligatnre and ofconipression in obliterating arteries. The purport of his remarks is to prove, like the later observations of Scarpa : 1 st. That the ob- literation of an artei-y can very certainly be ef- fected, independently of the rupture or division of any of its coats ; 2ndl}-, That this operation of the ligature, so far from being essential to the process, not imfrequently defeats it. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vii. p. 344, 345.) With respect to the first of these assertions, I presume, that all practical surgeons have known and admitted it, especially if the words very cer- tainly be left out. Every system of surgery, for half a century past, has recorded the occasional cure of aneurism by different modes of compres- sion by which the adhesive inflammation is ex- cited in the artery, or the coagulation of the blood in the aneurismal sac brought about. As, how- ever, the most experienced surgeons have found the method less certain than the use of the liga- ture, it is not represented, by any modem writers, as deserving equal confidence ; though there are circumstances in which simple pressure may be sometimes tried, with the hope of doing away all occasion for an operation. The cases, however, in which compression is applied directly to the artery itself by means of ligatures, with the in- tervention of other substances, as advised by Scarpa, &c., or by various contrivances, like those of the serre-noaud, the presse-artere, and Assalini's forceps, all require the exposure of the arlery ; and if commendable, therefore, cannot be so on the principle of saving the patient the pain of an operation, but because they are more effectual than the employment of the ligature. This last point remains to be proved. From the com- paratively small n\imber of instances, in which the preceding modes of compression have been practised, several examples of failure might be quoted. With regard to Mr. Crampton's second as- sertion, that the division of the inner coats of the vessel, so far from being essential to the pro- cess of obliteration, not unfrequently defeats it, I think the last part of the observation is altogether unproved. We must admit, that the division of the inner coats is not essential, because arteries sometimes become obliterated under a variety of circumstances in which such division is not made ; fmt still, the great question remains, whe- ther it renders the process more certain. Mr. Crampton founds his conclusions, that itj not un- frequently prevents the obliteration, and gives rise to secondary hemorrhage, upon n very few uncommon cases in which aneurismal swellings have taken place above the ligature. (See War- ner's Case, p. 1,50', nf this Dictionary.) Here Mr. Crampton presumes that the occurrence happened ANEURISM. though Warner himself suspected, with more pro- bability, that it proceeded from a diseased state of the vessel. Besides, this event, be it produced in whatever manner it may, is so rare, that I only know of three examples of it on record, and have never known it occur during the many years that I have been in the constant habit of seeing nu- merous operations performed. In Warner's time, also, the ligatures used were so thick, that they must have been more likely just to press the sides of the artery together, like Mr. Crampton's presse- artere, than effect a complete division of the inner coats of the vessel, as is accomplished by the small ligatures in modern use. Those metallic instruments, intended to be ap- plied directly to an exposed artery, for the pur- pose of obliterating it by compression, are liable, as Scarpa remarks, to all the inconveniences which are inseparable from the presence of hard bodies, introduced and kept for several days in the bottom of a wound ; especially when this is recent, in which case they cannot be retained in a proper direction without difliculty, or exactly at such a depth as will not be attended with hurtful pressure upon the wound itself, and important parts in its vicinity. And, with regard to the forceps of Assalini, Monte;'gia has observed, " 1/ the obliteration of the artery is retarded; the for- ceps equally divides the artery by causing the death of the included 2)ortion. I also saw, in one case, the extremity of the instrument resting at the bottom of the ivound on the subjacent femoral vein, rupture its anterior half also, although ice were sure It had not been included by it." {Instituz di Chir. ed. 2, t. ii.) And although Cumano, in a case of popliteal aneurism, obtained, on the fourth day, the closure of the femoral artery, by means of Assalini's forceps, he does not conceal that the cure of the wound was rather difKcult; and in comparing the ligature with the forceps, he adds his belief, that if an equal result is derived from both, the preference will be given to the ligature, unless the other instrument be brought to such perfection that the inconveniences will be re moved from which he found it not exempt though the operation succeded. {Annali di Mid del Dottorc Omodei, Settembre, 1807, p. 309- and Scarjm, On Aneurism, p. 45, ed. 2.) Some experi- ments were a few years ago instituted by Mr Travers, in order to determine the merit of Assa- lini's forceps, compared with tlie ligature ; and his conclusions from the facts elucidated in the investi- gation is, that the ligature is a more powerful means of effecting the obliteration of the tube of an artery. (See Mcrf. Chir. Trans, vol. vi. p C43 &c •) The substance called silkworm gut, used bv anglers, was proposed to the profession for se- curing arteries, in the year 1818. (See E.rperi- menls vn favour of a nexc subUance for tying Arte- ""W"'; •«> ''>/ Joseph M-SweLf, M.D vol. XIV. p. 597.) It IS described as round, smooth amazingly strong, on y as thick as horsch'air, t .s adapted for cutting the internal coat of an arterv ■ enca. In a 1 tlio experiments where it was used tlie wound healed kindly over it, and on killing tlie'ani- rna it was found unchanged. In the year 182(;, Mr o™>.,p.,m presumes mat tne occurrence happened iel'l nf'Sn «"''g<=°"3 to the sub-