76 AMPUTATION. putation, the principal objection to tlieir use, namely, the pain which they occasion, having heen removed by the introduction cf anccsthetics. If additional support seem necessary, two or three strips of adhesive plaster may also be applied, but as a general rule a light bandage round the limb, and a piece of lint wetted in cold water over the end of the stump, is all that is requisite. The piece of lint can be readily changed without disturbing the wound, and if any hemorrhage take place, it cannot fail to be immediately discovered.] As a general rule the dressings should not be changed before the third or fourth day, not reckon- ing the one on which the amputation is performed : by which time, if sutures have been employed, it will be advisable to remove them, though occasion- ally, if they are not causing irritation, the alternate stitches only may be taken out, and the remainder left for twenty-four or forty-eight hours longer ; and Sir Astley Cooper did not change the dressings till the sixth or eighth day ; merely removing on the fourth one strip of plaster, in order to let out any confined matter. (See La7icet, vol. i. p. 150.) Monro also set down the fifth, sixth, or seventh day, as sufficiently early. He allowed, however, that, if the smell of the wound should become offensive, the outer dressings might be removed sooner. Even when the dressings are to be taken away, it will frequently be found useful to leave one strip of plaster: but the stump must be made clean, and any discharge washed away. These, and other valuable precepts, derived from the eminent Dr. A. Monro, senior, are worthy their great source, and the correctness of them promises to be acknow- ledged for ever. The manner of renewing the dressings of stumps is, indeed, a very important business, which should never be intrusted to mere novices ; for in removing off the straps of sticking plaster, if great care be not taken, the slight and newl}"- formed adhesions may be torn asimder. Thus, as Mr. A. Hutchison has remarked, if ^the strap be pulled off by holding one end of it at nearly a right angle with the ad- hering part, the flap will be raised up with it, and thus a separation of the newly united parts will be produced. " My plan," says he, " is to reflect the raised end of the strap close down upon the ad- hering parts, and to bring it gently forward with one hand, while the removing part of the strap is followed by two fingers of the other placed upon the skin, &c.; and when one end is detached from its adhesion, as far as the line of incision on the face of the stump, in like manner the other end is brought down and wholly remored." {Practical Obs. p. 46.) In order to facilitate the removal of the plasters and save the patient a great deal of pain, I follow the plan of letting warm water drop over them from a sponge for a few minutes previously to the attempt to remove them. lu the early part of the treatment, it is also a valuable rule never to let every strip of plaster bo off" at once, so as to leave the flesh quite unsupported. Some skill and care are also invariably necessary to avoid pulling away the ligatures with the dressings. At the end of five or six days, the surgeon may begin to try, in a very gentle manner, whether any of the ligatures are loose; observing rather to twist, than suddenly pull tliem directly outward. However, he should not use the snuillest force, nor persist if the trial create pain. One would hardly try whether the ligature on the main artery were loose, before the tenth or twelfth day ; from the femoral artery it rarely comes away before the expiration of a fortnight. If minute ligatures made of dentist's silk be employed, and both their ends cut oft' close to the knot, of course, this deli- cate business of trying to get rid of the irritation of these foreign bodies is entirely superseded. Though, in the above account, I have directed the edges of the wound, to be brought together in such a way that the wound shall appear as a line across the face of the stump, yet there are instances in which the bone seems most easily and con- veniently covered, by making the line of the wound in a perpendicular direction. Mr. B. Bell, indeed, generally approved of.it, as affording a ready outlet for matter ; it is likewise directed by Sir C. Bell (Op. Surgery, vol. i.), by Roux {Mtin. sur la Reunion iimnediuie de la Plaie apres rAmp. p. 11), and by Dr. Hennen {On Military Surgery, p. 265, ed. 2). Mr. Hey, referring to amputation of the thigh, has noticed this subject as follows: "the integu- ments and muscles may be brought into contact bj' pressing either the anterior and posterior parts, or the sides of the thigh, together. The former method, by the gradual retraction of the posterior muscles, causes the integuments of the anterior part of the stump to cover more completeh' the ex- tremity of the bone. The latter method causes the integiunents and muscles to meet each other the more readily, and therefore is to be preferred when the quantity of soft parts preserved is somewhat deficient." {Pract. Obs. on Surgery, p. 533, ed. 2.) Velpeau states, that the French" surgeons prefer having one angle of the wound forward, the other backward, in order that fluids may have a ready outlet. {Nouv. Elan. deMed. Chi'r. t. i. p. 509 ; alsoDupuyfren, t. iv. p. 416.) As a general maxim, observes this very distinguished surgeon, the soft parts should be brought together in the direction of the lesser diameter of the stumps, if circular amputations have been performed ; and so as to bring the bleeding surfaces of the flaps together, if flap amputations have been done : the wound is to be brought together with its line in the direction of the great diameter of the oval, if the oval or oblique mode of amputation has been selected. M. Malgaigne observes, that, whether the line of the wound be transverse or perpendicular, the inconveniences are equal. The former plan leaves a cul-de-sac below, in which pus lodges ; in the latter method, one angle of the wound is pressed against the cushion, which supports the stump. Perhaps, saj'-s M. Malgaigne, the oblique direction should be preferred. (See jMalgaigne, Manuel dc Mkl. Op. p. 29fi.) The plan of bringing the edges of the wound to- gether alter amputation, so that they may luiite by the first intention, has received, for many years past, the universal approbation of British surgeons. It is their general practice, in the treatment of all incised wounds. It may be said to be the pride of English surgery ; for "in nothing does it display nu)re convincingly its superiority. Baron Larrey, however, in cases of amputation, disapproves of the attempt to unite the wound by the first intention, and merely brings forward its edges .somewhat towards each other with a piece of linen that covers the whole of the wound, mid has small lioles