EXOSTOSIS, polypi and tumors; d. Exteraal: exostosis; e. In front: contraction of lids and eye slipping through —hernia oculi.J {C. Bader.) ii ^S!: centur. vi. obs. 1. VanderWiel.centur. Vf.,,. • •i?''^- ^'i. Tulpius, lib. i. cap. 28. ^ope. m PhiK Trans, for 1744. Louis, sur plusieurs Maladies ciu Globe del'CEil, &c. in Mem. de I'Acad nh? „'1;T?'^' *• '» '2mo. Brochlesby, in Medical Obs. and Inquiries, vol. iv. p. 371. White's Cases in Sursery pp. 131-135, &c. Warner's Cases in Sur" lt?'f^f°% ^^'i- \ P^'tl'OlOKie Chir. t ii. p. 144, edit. 2. Micherand, Nosog-r. Chir t ii n 117 ^dit. 2. Mdd Chir. Trans, vol.^ii! art. {; vol.V. p! 316; and vol. VI. p ill, &c. Richter's Anfanss-^v der Wundarzn, b. iii. p. 406, &c. Gott. 1795 ' beck Neue Bihl, bd. ii. Travers, Synopsi^ o"^the Diseases of the Kye, p. 225, &c. Lend 1820. Dr. J/«„! teath, in JFeito-'* Manual, vol. i. p. 195. PetitbeZ in Journ. de M^d. par Corv'isart. t. xiv G. ^Gut/ir e Operati ve Surgery of the Eye, {>. 145, &c. 8vo Lond! ]< , :u l-, ■■ -P?'««<^) On Protrusion of the Eyeball Ophthalraic Hospital Reports, October 1857/^S i«1!f"'n^" the Diseases of the Eye, fourth edi ion, ^^^t- Trait(5 thdorique et pratique des Maladies des Yeu.x, ^dit. 2, Paris 1855. Dr.SteUw!a von Canon, die Ophthalmoiogie, &c. 1853 3 •'''^"""'i' EXOSTOSIS (from e'^, out, and hariov, a bone). An exostosis is a tumor formed by an exuberant growth of bony matter on the'sur- face of a bone, or it is formed by the more or less considerable enlargement of a part or the whole, of a bone. {Boyer, Mai. Chir. t! iii p. .541.) In general, however, it is only when the enlarge- ment IS partial that it is termed an exostosis. As Mr. Mayo has pointed out, some hypertrophies of bone are connected with a salutary principle ; while others constitute curable, or incurable dis- eases. The arm of a blacksmith acquires, through daily exertion, additional muscular force, weight, and size; the bones in it enlarge ; their crust becomes harder, and of a more compact grain ; and the lines upon the surface, which give attach- ment to tendons, become rough and prominent ridges. This is health. "When Mr. Cheshire's apparatus for supporting the spine is worn, the pressure on the lower jaw generally causes this bone to enlarge, and to throw out a bony swelling, where the chin strap is applied. Thist nmor is an exostosis, yet it evidently results from the salu- tary principle, which strengthens a part in propor- tion to the exertion imposed upon it. (See Maya's Outlines of Httman Pathology, p. 11.) While the growth of the whole body is proceed- ing rapidly, abnormal swellings of parts of bones are common, especially of the clavicle, sternum, or ribs. These are exostoses, which require no treat- ment, as they generally subside of themselves in the course of a year or two. Exostoses are still more common at the period when the body has re- cently attained its full growth. But the disease is not limited to the earh', nor to the middle periods of life. {lb.) One division of exostoses is into true and. false ; the former being of a truly osseous consistence, the others being more or less hollow, spongy expansions of the bones, soinetiraes containing a quantity of cartilaginous, fibrous, medullary, or tungous matter within the shell of the disease. 1 eriostoses, or mere tliickenings of the periosteum, a.re also sometimes classed amongst/a/.«e exostoses, fn ^ A Mhl. t. xiv. p. 218.) According so-,;"' 1Cooper, exostoses have two different uus -. hy periosteal exostoses he means an osseous Qeposition seated between the external surface of. the bone, and the internal surface of the perios- teum and firmly adherent to both ; by medullary exostoses he signifies a similar formation, oriEin- ating m the medullary membrane and cancellated structure of a bone. The same experienced sur- geon makes two other general divisions of exostoses into the cartilaginous 2ini fungous, the first beinP preceded by the formation of cartilage, which forms the nidus for the o.ssific deposit," while the second IS a tumor softer than cartilage, yet firmer than lungiis, in other parts of the body, containinjr spicula of bone, being of a malignant nature, and depending "upon a peculiar state of constitution and action of vessels." It is a disease similar to fungus hasmatodes, but somewhat modified bv the structure of the part in which it originates." {iiurgical Essays, part i. p. 155.) If a true exostosis be immersed in diluted muri- atic acid, so as to separate the earthy part of it, the tumor will yet retain its form, and present the same kind of fibro-cartilaginous matrix which ex- ists in healthy bone. {lb.) [Rokitansky arranges the non - malignant out- growths of bone imder two heads—]. Exostoses, which he subdivides into the compact (osteoscler- osis) and the porous {osteoporosis) ; the former consists of the hard ivory exostoses, the latter comprises the remainder of the simple bony out- growths, whatever their form or the arrangement of the osseous or cartilaginous tissue composing them may be ; that is to say, whether their can- cellated interior be more or less open, whether they possess a medullary canal or not, whether they originated as bony or cartilaginous growths and whether the cartilage, when present, was cen- tral or cortical in position. 2. Osteophytes. Under this term he ranges all those numerous deposits or bone resulting from simple or specific inflammatory action. These he designates according to the various appearances they assume—the villous osteophyte, the laminated, the warty or stalactitic, the thorny or styloid, and one which resembles drops or small streams of osseous matter. He ex- cludes from this classification the bony bases, in- ternal skeletons, or capsules of the several morbid growths occasionally invading the osseous tissue, such as are found in enchondroma, osteosarcoma, cancer, &c. M. N^laton divides all non-malignant exostoses into the osseous and the osteo-cartilaginous. Under the first head he includes ivory exostoses, as well as all purely bony growths. Under the second he ranges all exostoses in which cartilage is found blended with bony tissue. Of these he makes two varieties, one in which the cartilage forms a cortex to the osseous growth ; a second, in which the cartilage will be found in the centre of the bony mass. The general enlargement of the whole shaft of a cylindrical bone, or the general thick- ening of the cranial bones, he describes under name of hyperostosis or hypertrophy. The malig- nant growtiis of bone he separates entirely from exostoses, and describes under their appropriate forms of cancerous disease. Osseous and osteo-cartilaginous exostoses are found to possess the same chemical constituents and in the same proportions as in normal bone or cartilage. Their microscopical appearances are also identical. The ivorj' exostoses, however, form an exception in some degree fo these re- marks. Nelatoii gives from ncrzeliiis the follow-