ANEURISM. 171 in cases of aneurism, as soon as the tube of the vessel has been obliterated by the adhesive inflam- mation. From the facts recorded by Scarpa, it is inferred, that, with the kind of ligature and the cylinder of linen used in his practice, the closure of the artery by the adhesive inflammation and the two internal coagnla arc sufficiently far advanced on the third or fourth day after the operation, to resist the impulse of the blood ; and hence (says he) there is no rational motive for waiting beyond this time for the spontaneous separation of the ligature, or for allowing it, by its further presence, to ulce- rate, and even open the artery at the principal point of adhesion. He then comments on the ad- vantages to the wound, derived from the removal of all extraneous matter from it on the third or fourth da}-. With respect to the general opinion of such removal, however, he makes one excep- tion, viz. the case of great and evident debility from sickly constitution, or very advanced age, as it is observed that, in such patients the reunion of a simple wound is frequently protracted to the sixth day. In cases of this description, Scarpa recommends delaying the removal of tlie ligature to the completion of the fifth, or sitvth day, but under the express condition, that the ligature has been applied with the interposition of a cylinder of linen ; as it is proved that a common circular ligature causes ulceration of the artery before the third day, and it is not till the sixth day that the external coat of the vessel begins to ulcerate, when the other modification of the ligature is adopted. (P. 50.) Scarpa supports the preceding advice by four cases, in which his kind of ligature was applied, and withdrawn at the end of the third, or fourth day, and the arterial tube obliterated. However, I do not think that, in England, these cases, when minutely and attentively considered, will be re- garded as inducements to persevere in the use of temporary ligatures. In every instance the wound is described as suppurating, and sometimes plen- tifully. In one, the foot mortified, and amputa- tion became necessary. In another, the very day after the disturbance of removing the ligature, the thigh was attacked with erysipelas, and, on the eighth day the wound is represented as hemg foul, and the erysipelas not yet cured. It is but fair to add, that M. Roux seems to have operated on Scarpa's plan, with results much more encourag- ing ; for he is stated to have taken up the principal arteries of the neck and limbs in this way nearly fifty times, and lost but five or six of the patients from hemorrhage or sphacelus. (See Lisfranc, De fOblileration des Artercs, p. 71.) Independently of the uncertainty of the period, when tlio arterial tube is closed by the adiicsive inflammation in varioin patients, it appears to me that the disturbance of the vessel and wound, by the steps necessary for the loosening and removal of the ligature, will ever form an insuperable ob- jection to the practice. Scarpa appears to have some apprehension of this kind himself; for he remarks: "In the act of removing the ligattn-e, there can be no doubt it is of great cotisequonce tliat the artery be not rudely handli'd, or stretched. And, iudeeii, if, on untying the running knot, the siihjncent knot could be with the same facility untied, wo could not wish for a bettor mode of performing this part of the operation, liut, the knot, although a simple one, is not so readily un- tied as the running knot, on account of the mois- ture with which the threads forming the ligature are soaked, or because the ligature has been pre- viously waxed." (P. 64, ed. 2.) In fact, liis apprehensions then lead him to suggest the scheme of placing, previously to making the knot, a thread longitudinally, on each side of the cylinder ; and, at the time of removing the ligature, the threads are to be drawn in opposite directions, in order to undo the knot, without displacing or stretching the artery. This reminds rae of the ingenious contrivance of Mr. John Barker, of Ipswich,^ whereby the ligature, at any period judged advisable, is removed without any disturbance of the wound : it is rendered per- fectly intelligible by the annexed diagram. Instead of one small ligature, which is all that an English surgeon leaves in the wound, Scarpa recommends his ligature of lour or six threads, a roll of linen, and two other threads ; a quantity of extraneous substances, which can- not fail to be a source of serious irritation and mischief. I shall there- fore take leave of the proposal of removing the ligature on the third or fourth day, or any other particular day, with ex- pressing my belief, that, if there were only the following objection to the plan it would never be adopted in this country ; namely, all the advocates for this practice, except- ing Mr. John Barker, whose plan has considerable merit, renounce the infinite advantage of bringing the edges of the wound together directly after the operation. Had the suggestion of Dr. Jones proved invariably correct, and the ligature admitted of being withdrawn immediately after the inner coats of the vessel had been divided by it, the case would have been very different, as there would then have been no foreign body at all loft in the wound ; the parts might have been immediately brought together with the greatest chance of union liy the first intention, and no subsequent disturb- ance either of the artery, or of the wound, would have been incurred. At the same time, I admit that if the removal of the ligature at the end of a given time should ever prove the best practice then Mr. Barker's ingenious contrivance for nn- doing and extracting the ligature without any irri- tation of the parts or keeping the wound open for he purpose, may become a proposal ef groat prac- t.cal impnrtance. At present, I am decidedly of "pm.on, hat u is best to leave the ligature ti 1 it lecomes loosened, which usually happens between he tenth and twentieth days after the operation (See Lis/ranc, Dc CObliltraiinn dcs ArtirL p G3 ) Hie next practice which I shall notice, is that of applying two ligatures to tiic artery, and cuttingit hrotigh ,11 the interspace. This suggestion niay i>e said to bo as ancient as the time of Celsus, who ■■idvised tiio method to be followed in the trcat- iiicnt of a wounded artery, {Dn Mcdicind, lib.' v, c. -0, S 21.) The fact is curious, tliougli I ineu- lion It without the least intention of detracting