PERINJEO. 676 FISTULA IN to the swelled scrotum, in the track of the pus. {Hunter.) ^ The direction which the extravasated urine takes is determined by the connection of the su- perficial with the deep perineal fascia below the transverse muscle. This connection prevents the urine from extending towards the thigh or the buttock; and, if it become very widely extrava- sated it does not pass downwards or backwards, but forwards into the scrotum and penis, and then into the groins and cellular tissue of the parietes of the abdomen, and this nearly up to tlie ribs. _ [When extravasation has taken place, free in- cisions should be made in the parts where swelling and tension are most evident, either in the peri- nasum, scrotum, or on the penis itself, in order to give abundant means of exit to the effused urine, and to the products of inflammation.] Sir Astley Cooper is of opinion that, as soon as the abscesses, which are the forerunners of the fistula, can be plainly felt to contain a fluid, it is best to open them. They not unfrequently then heal up expeditiously without any fistulous orifice being left, and a tendency to those dan- gerous extravasations of urine is also prevented, which, if the abscesses are not opened early, often prove destructive to life. {Surgical Essays, part ii. p.-212.) The occurrence of ulceration can only be pre- vented by overcoming the stricture; but when the urine is diS'used in the cellular tissue, the removal of the stricture will generally be too late to pre- vent mischief, although it will be necessary for the complete cure. Therefore, an attempt may be made to pass a bougie, or rather a catheter, for perhaps the stricture may have been destroyed by the ulceration, so as to allow the instrument to be introduced. In these cases Sir A. Cooper expresses a preference to metallic bougies, the size of which is to be gradually increased, until their diameter exceeds the natural diameter of the passage. In some instances, however, he considers it advisable to introduce a metal catheter, of large size, and to allow it to remain in the bladder, so as at once to act upon the stricture, and hinder the urine from passing through the preternatural opening. In this manner a permanent cure may often be effected. The experience of modern surgeons tends to prove, however, that particular cases form excep- tions to the plan of employing bougies, or catheters, though a fistulous opening may have occurred; as when the apertures in the urethra are the conse- quences of ulceration and abscess, unaccompanied by staicture, and take place in a bad constitution, perhaps only preceded by a slight discharge i'rom the urethra. Here bougies would increase the tendency to ulceration, and aggravate the local and constitutional irritation. {Sir A. Cooper, p. 210'.) I believe that this is the right view of the latter point, because, when an abscess and fistulous opening form from gonorrhoea, they arise not so much from diminution of the canal of the urethra, but from the tendency in certain constitutions to have abscesses of this description produced by even flight degrees of irritation in tlie urethra. Hence, if a catheter be useful in such a case, it is not ))y dilating the nretlira, but conducting the urine through it, without allowing it to enter the abscess. A bnugie would serve no useful purpose. [l''urt!uTnii;rp, if, in a case of extravasation, free incisions have been made, and the urine flows off freely by them, which will be the case if they have been properly made, there is no occasion to pay much attention to the stricture at first; on the contrary, it is better to wait for a few days before applying any systematic treatment to it. The stricture will be more amenable to dilatation after rest, and the removal of the urine through the artificial openings which have been made.] In fistulas in perina30 from stricture, the cure mainly depends upon the diagnosis of the primary disease,—the obstruction in the urethra. In nine- teen cases out of twenty, by the time that the stricture is fully dilated, the fistula has healed. It IS more easy (as Sir Benjamin Brodie ob- serves) for the urine to pass along the natural pas- sage, if it be of its proper diameter, than it is for it to pass through the oblique passage of the fistula. The fistula has generally a kind of valvular opening into the urethra, which the urine does not readily enter; and when the stricture in fi-ont of the fistula has been dilated, and the urine has a free passage in that direction, it ceases to flow in the other. Frequently the new passages for the urine do not heal, on account of the stricture not being removed; and even when this has been cured, they often will not heal, but become tmly fis- tulous, and produce flesh inflammation and sup- purations, which often burst by distinct openings. Such new abscesses and openings often form, in consequence of the former ones having become too small, before the obstruction in the urethra is removed. Such diseases are sometimes accompanied by intermittent febrile symptoms, which do not yield to bark; but cease as soon as the fistulee and dis- ease of the urethra have been cured. Cases occur where, from the communication of the fistida with the urethra being unusually large, or from there being several fistiilae, or from some other cause, the cure of the fistula, or fistulas, does not immediately follow the removal of the stricture. Under these circumstances Sir Benjamin Brodie recommends an examination of the perina;uin to be made, in order to ascertain whether there is any cavity in it in which the urine or pus lodges. If the orifice of the fistula is such that matter formed at the bottom of it does not readily escape, either the orifice should be dilated, or a fresh opening made elsewlicre, according to the rules comiuonly recognised for the trontmcnt of abscesses in general. But, if there is no impediment of this kind to the cure, and the stricture has been duly dilated, Sir Benjamin Brodie approves of the introduction of an elastic gum catheter into the bladder, and of its being continued there for the evacuation of the urine, under wliich treatment a cure of the fistula will often take place. In some instances, the latter plan should not be continued beyond a certain stage of the case: at first, the catheter kept in the urethra frequently promotes the healing of the fistuUe ; but, in the end, it maj' have the contrary ell'ect, by acting at tlie bottom of the wound, as an extraneous body. This state of the case is particularly adverted to by Sir Benjamin Brodie: —" In many cases (says he) the permanent retention of a gum catheter in the bladder does not answer the intended purpose with respect to the cure of the fistula. It would do so if it altogether prevented the urine from