18 ABSORPTION and Mr. Carapliell De Morgan, in a pi\per " On the, Struclure and Development of Bone,'''' which was published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1853. In the first place, these gentlemen show the ■well-known fact, that the solid block of cartilage, which is laid down as the precursor and substra- tum of bone, soon becomes tunnelled out into canals (called Haversian canals or spaces), in order to permit of the access of blood-vessels previous to the conversion of cartilage into bone. For, as we need scarcely say, whilst cartilage is non-vascular, true bone is always abundantly supplied with red ■blood. In the next place they show that bone, once fully formed, is by no means a permanent substance, but that it is subject to incessant absorption and re- newal. A section of a long bone displays the bony tissue arranged in concentric rings around the blood- vessels which occupy the Haversian spaces. But it is evident on inspection, that the Haversian sys- tems of rings are by no means universally perfect and regular ; on the contrary, they display a mul- titude of irregular patches of laminae, looking like disjointed and unconformahle patches of strata in a geological section, and testifying to the fact, that just as cartilage originally is tunnelled out for the formation of the first blood-vessels, and of the con- centric rings of bone which are formed around those blood-vessels, so bone itself is incessantly under- going a similar process. New longitudinal channels are continually being excavated, and continually being filled up with new bone ; so that this tissue undergoes day by day change of material, the old portions being removed interstitial!y and new de- posited, , . 1 As to the mechanism by which this absorption of bone is effected, the opinions of Mr. Tomes and Mr. De Morgan are almost identical with those of the' Goodsirs. They believe that an active cell growth is the agent by which the bone is absorbed and passed into the circulating fluid, both normally in the healthy processes of absorption and nutritive renewal, and in disease. And they believe that it is by means of a similar cell growth that the fangs of the milk teeth are absorbed. " When a portion of dead or dying bone, says Mr. Goodsir, " is about to be separated from the living, the process which occurs is essentially the same as that which has been described. 1 he Haversian canals which immediately bound the dead or dying bone are enlarged contemporaneously with the filling of their cavities with a cellular growth. As this proceeds contiguous canals are thrown into one another. At last the dead or dying bone is connected to the living by the cel- lular mass alone. It is now loose, and has become 80 in consequence of the cellular layer which sur- rounds it presenting a free surface and throwing off ^^In the same manner Messrs. Tomes and De Morgan describe the hollowing out of the medullary cavity of the end of a femur—exposed in a stump, l,y a dense pale pink tissue, consisting of nu- cleated cells ; which evidently increased as the bone decreased. " The cellular mass," they say, " was tolerably vascular, but the vessels did not reach the surface in contact with the bone ; hence Jhey could not be regarded as havmg any imme diatp action in the process of absorption. "If!" they continue, "we examine the fangs of temporary teeth when they are undergoing re- moval, similar states to those described in the por- tion of femur will be found to obtain. A similar cellular mass will be found closely applied to that surface of the tooth which is in process of removal." " It is difficult to resist the belief that the cells which lie in contact with wasting bone and den- tine take up those tissues and use all or part of them for their own increase and multiplication, or else form a medium through which they are passed into the circulation." These gentlemen believe that ivory pegs, such as are sometimes driven into bone, to excite the reparative processes of the fracture, may be ab- sorbed by the cell growths of the Haversian spaces of the bone around. (See Macarincy, on In- flammation, p. 46 ; and an article on Done, in Brit, and For. Med. Rev. hj R. Druilt, July, 1854.) Now let us sum up the various facts and doc- trines which relate to this, our fifth category of cases of absorption. It is alleged, as a sort of general law, that rapidly growing cells may absorb tissues with which they are in contact. Leaving out of question the supposed cell growths in the villi of the intestines, and in the lacteal and h-mphatic glands, we find the facts brought forward in proof of the doctrine to be first, a supposed layer ot cells on the surface of all ulcers. But this is purely hypothetical, and has never been demon- strated, and may be dismissed without further comment. Secondly, there is the false membrane on the sur- face of cartilage, which was supposed by Key and Goodsir to erode that structure in ulceration. But it has been fully shown by Redfem that the changes in cartilage are intrinsic and original, and not mere consequence of the action of any membrane applied to the surface. There remains then only the case of bone and teeth, in which it certainly is highly probable, if not proved to demonstration, that absorption m healtli and disease, for nutrition and for destruction, is effected by means of a cell growth. But then it must be remarked, that the ce Is which absorb bone and tooth, do not appear to be invested with that function specially. On the contrary, the same cell gi-owth which begins by tunnelling out a new Haversian space in bone, ends by being converted into new bone, to hll up the very void it had created. And the vascular growth which absorbs the fang of a milk tooth, when that tooth has dropped out, grows up to the level of the gum, becomes invested wiih epithelium, drops its absorbent fiuiction, and comports itself like ordinary gum. , , , Moreover it must be observed, that absorption is not the function of all rapidly increasing cell growths in contact with teeth, as, for example, in epulis the fangs of the teeth are not absorbed. The writer has often made investigations ot muscle infiltrated with cancer, to see whether in this ase of a most vigorous cell growth intruding n o another tissue: anything like absorption, such as that of bone under ^^^^^ could be detected. But it could not. In tlic case of a heart which presented eevera nodules of cau- l^us deposit, abruptly defined it appeared as it the muscular fibres infiltrated with the new crowth were gradually starved, atrophied, de- coSdrand degenerate, but not as if they were