^82 CORNEA fi. That it is either accompanied or preceded by iritis. As regards the treatment, it appears that the disease has its period of development, that it remains in full force for a given time, varying from two to four or five months, and tlien gradually passes away, the opacity clearing from the cir- cumference, like a vanishing cloud, and ultimately leaving no trace behind. Any expectant treat- ment appears better than active constitutional and local means. It occasionally happens that corneitis manifests ■ itself under another and severer form, and though probably differing only in degree, spreads deeper, produces more formidable results, and more seri- ously interferes with vision, from the circumstance that it usually involves the second eye before the first has recovered its transparency. The corneal opacity, instead of being uniform, exhibits one or more patches of a reddish-brown colour, not on the surface, but between the layers of the cornea On a superficial view, these appear like small masses of extravasated blood; but, if carefully examined, are found to be made up to a great extent of minute vessels, and to be iu fact masses of highly-organised lymph. In this severe type of corneitis, there is much more evidence of in- creased vascularity 5 the conjunctiva is considerably injected ; the deeper vessels ai'e involved ; there is both lachrymation and some intolerance of light; the patient also complains of a dull aching pain. It is very important not to confound this disease with the vascular opacity of the cornea, as the result of a villous state of the conjunctiva in strumous subjects. This disease never produces ulceration. It may occur in children, but the worst forms of it have been observed in adults between thirty and forty years of age. It is very protracted in its duration, and resists every kind of treatment, but iiltimately gets quite well, when perhaps every plan has been tried and abandoned in despair. We must limit ourselves to such means as will restore power to the system, but without antici- pating any favourable results to the disease, except indirectly, hoping merely that it may run its course more speedily, when the system is in a healthy condition. Cases sometimes present themselves, in which a superficial layer of the cornea is separated from the rest by the infiltration of a small quantity of clear serous fluid, resembling a minute blister. This may be raised and flaccid, so that on pressing the sur- face with the lid, the fluid may be seen to move between the layers ; or it may form a defined circumscribed, tight, transparent blister ; or the fluid may be somewhat opaque and infiltrated be tween the layers of the cornea, so as to resemble, on a cursory view, n circumscribed opacity of the cornea. This change is met with in eyes which have previously been injured by deep-seated in- flnmniation of the globe ; and when they occur in a healthy eye, they produce more or less perma- nent damage to the sight. The pain is severe and intermittent, and does not very readily yield to nny form of treatment, Mr. Tyrrell has very clearly described this curious affection. He is of opinion that it occurs in persons snfl'ering from some orgnnic disease, and mentions its extreme intractability, and particularly recommends warm baths. If there is undue tension of the globe, with severe pain, it may relieve the symptoms to introduce a fine needle through the cornea, and allow some of the aqueous humor to escape, and his may be repeated, if necessary, from time to time, until permanent ease is obtained. Ukemtion of the cor„ea.~li the conjunctiva be inflamed beyond a certain point, or if the inflam- mation be prolonged to a certain height beyond a given time, and if there exist at the same time a condition of constitution unfavourable to the sub- sidence of morbid action, the nutrition of the cornea becomes impaired, and its surface becomes at some time or other (-usually near the centre)' the seat of ulcerative absorption. On careful examination, we find these ulcers in one of four conditions,—I, in process of formation ; 2. in a stationary condition ; 3. in a state of overaction ■ 4. in a healing or cicatrizing condition. An ulcer ot the cornea during its formation and progress may present an excavation of a circular or irregu- lar shape, with defined edges, and often perfectly transparent, as if a portion had been cut or punched out, or transparent at one part and opaque at another. If it be recent and in process of development, the opacity round the ulcer is rather deep, circular, white, and well-defined ; whereas, during the healing process, the opacity is thinner, less defined, and more delicately shaded off. The ulcerative process may be arrested at any point, or may proceed until it has penetrated the entire substance of the cornea, giving rise to a small hernia of the elastic tunic, and when that yields, to a hernia of the iris ; again, it may form a slight abrasion, scarcely perceptible, or a deep excavation. It may be situated at any part of the cornea, most commonly near the centre, which is particularly the situation of the glassy ulcet, but it may invade the margin, especially in purulent oph- thalmia. An ulcer sometimes attacks both surfaces of the cornea, leaving the central layers unaffected. One result of this curious affection is the occur- rence of "hypopion," or pus, in the anterior cham- ber. When the ulcerative stage has ceased, the subsequent progress of the case will vary very much, and will be regulated by the state of the system and the amount of conjunctival inflammation, to which the ulceration owes both its origin and its continu- ance. "Some chronic ulcers of the cornea will heal," observes Mr. Bowman, "in the most gradual manner, without the formation of any vessels in their vicinity;" but, "if any ulcer exists, having to heal by a slow and gradual process, we usually find, in the interval between it and the neighbour- ing vessels, a grayish half-transparent tract, dis- tinguishable from the healthy cornea ; and in this there is soon developed a series of vessels, wnich presently declare themselves as arteries, capillaries and veins, carrying the blood in a circuit through and about the seat of reparative action. . . . Thus is the cornea made dull and useless for a time, by the introduction of a structure destruc- tive of its transparency, in order that its integrity may be restored according to the natural laws of growth. When its restoration is somewlint ad- vanced, and less blood is required, these vessels dwindle, their coats, which are at best imperfectly organised, soon disappear, and the cornea be- comes once more permeable to light." If the general health be good, and the case well managed, the ulcer will be observed to be gradually filled up with opaque iympii, until it reaches a level