3 F 2 effects upon the constitution, by the introduction of deleterioua substances into the circulation. Thus, arsenic, applied to sores, is often conveyed into the system, and, on this account, is to be regarded as a dangerous external remedy. Sir Astley Cooper quotes one instance, in which the patient seems to have been poisoned by the indis- criminate application of arsenic to a fungus of the eye. Opium also, when applied to the surfaces of sores, is very readily absorbed, producing similar effects to those which arise from its introduction into the stomach. Thus, when the quantity ab- sorbed is too great, excessive costiveness, extreme pain in the head, and torpor of the system, are the consequences, which require the frequent admi- nistration of active purgatives for their removal. A temporary amaurosis has been known to be produced by the absorption of the extract of bel- ladonna from the surface of irritable malignant ulcers. (^F. Tyrrell; A. Cooper's Lectures, yn\. i. p. 169.) [The reader will notice the unfounded assumption of the development of nerves in granulations be- cause they are sensitive, and the still more extra- ordinary assumption of the existence of lymphatic vessels, on the ground that granulations are capable of altering in volume, of perishing by disintegration, and of imbibing liquid medicines applied to their surface. (See Absorption.) If we may give, as shortly as possible, a rhume of the more modern observations on this matter, we may say that granulations appear to consist of a portion of the plastic matter of the blood employed for the reparation of such wounds as do not heal by the first intention. Their common situation is in suppurating wounds or healing ulcers of the skin, and they are commonly found in diseased joints; but Mr. Paget confirms Hunter's observa- tion, that they may exist without suppuration. " In subcutaneous injuries or diseases (he says), granulations sometimes form, which develope themselves into cellular tissue through nucleated blastema. So I found in a case of simple frac- ture, in which the ends of the bones remained long disunited; they were enclosed in a cavity formed by condensation of surrounding tissues, but con- taining no pus, and were covered with a distinct layer of florid granulations." (Lectures on Surgical Pathology, vol. i. p. 208, Lond. 1853.) Supposing an injury which leaves various cut surfaces exposed. First there ensues a period of repose, during which the wound is covered with a whitish glaze, and a serous oozing (or quMure, as our fathers called it) takes place. Then, in three, four, or more days, a translucent whitish sub- stance, not a mere film or glaze, but a something succulent, covers the wound, and within twenty- four hours assumes a rosy, and then a decidedly red tint. During the period of repose, it is supposed by Mr. Paget that the blood-vessels are enlarging, and preparing to pour out the exudation. The exudation developes itself into nucleated cells, now well known as plastic or fihro-plastic, or granulation cells. They have strong resem- blances to the white corpuscles of the blood, and to pus cells. They are described by Mr. Paget as at first " spherical, palely or darkly nebulous, from about to of an. inch in diameter. They contain a few shining, dark- bordered granules, and lie imbedded in a variable quantity of clear pellucid substance by which GRANULATIONS. 803 they axe held together." These cells develope themselves into filamentous tissue, by the pro- cesses of elongation and splitting. " Singly (says Mr. Paget) they are colourless ; but in clusters they are ruddy, even independent of the blood- vessels. In granulations that are making healthy progress,—in such as, after three or four days' growth, are fluid, moist, level, scarcely raised above the surrounding tissues, uniformly granular, or like a surface of minute papillas,—one can con- teniently trace the cells in various stages, accord- ing to the position they occupy. The deeper seated ones are always most advanced, and often much elongated or nearly filamentous; while the superficial ones are still in a rudimental state, or near the edges of the granulating surface are ac- quiring the character of epithelial cells." The surface of granulations is usually bathed in pus. This liquid appears to consist of the same exudation as forms granulations, with the cells misdeveloped into pus cells, and the intercellular substance melted down into the liquor purls. A profuse suppuration, and consequent waste of ma- terial, is usually a sign that the healing process is prevented by some constitutional or local irritation. As we have already narrated, Mr. Paget believes that some subcutaneous injuries are repaired by a material which sets at once into a fibrillary state {nucleated blastema) without going through the process of cell development. (See Repair, Wounds.) The formation of new vessels in granulations has always excited the admiration of the patho- logist. The process has been accounted for in one of two ways. It has been supposed, for example, that in the new blastema or reparative material ef- fused, blood and blood-vessels are formed, as they are in the embryo, and that the new blood-vessels so formed join themselves to those of the parent body. (See Wedl; Pathological Histology, Sy- denham Society, p. 81; Schwann and Schleiden,ib.) The other view, which is adopted by Mr. Paget is, that the capillary vessels of granulations are' outgrowths of the vessels of the part on which the granulations are situated, and from which they were exuded. Little vessels shoot out into the new layer of granulations, and inosculate in every direction, forming arches, from whose convexity agJiin fresh shoots are given off. Mr. Paget be- lieves likewise that petty streams of blood may ex- ude into the granulation material, and that vessel walls may be formed around these. However formed, the vessels should be nume- rous enough in healthy granulations, to give a florid surface, covered with a succulent layer, which the eye soon learns to recognise as healthy. Some- times the granulations seem very small and irrita- ble, and the vessels too numerous ; more often on the contrary, they are too large, pale, pufl'v, and exuberant, and defective in vascular supply. Qr they may be exuberant and vascular likewise, se- creting pus profusely, as happens sometimes when patients with ulcerated surfaces ciinsume too much meat and beer. Neither nerves nor lymphatics have been found in granulations. The assumption of their existence by the surgeons of the foregoing generation was an effect of the want of a proper system of philoso- phising in medicine, and of imperfect observation, which did not include general and comparative physiology.