5f2 DURA MATER." the swellings, Walther is convinced could not bo communiicated to them by the pulsations of the subjacent brain ; because they were wedged, as it were, in an aperture in the skull, and adherent to the dura mater beneath them, and to the super- incumbent periosteum ; so that, even in the dead subject, they did not admit of being pushed in the least outwards without difficulty, and the employ- ment of strong pressure. (Vol. cit. p. 57.) Indeed, this tight constriction of the tumor not only explains why stupor, paralysis, &c. were not brought on in these particular examples by external pressure, but also why the edn-es of the hole in the skull could not be felt; and°the small size of the same opening, in relation to the mag- nitude of the swelling, fully accounts, in n°y opinion, for the circumstance of the swelling not sinking inwards under pressure. But I am far from being convinced with Walther that fungi of the dura mater are in their nature always irre- ducible (see vol. cit. p. 82) ; a belief which he grounds upon the connection of the diseased mass with the vessels of the diploe, its constriction by the bone, and its expansion under as well as above the cranium. Here I think Walther is as wrong in saying that none of these fungi can possibly be reduced, as others would be in asserting that it ia their invariable character to be reducible. These differences must chiefly depend upon the size of the swelling, in relation to that of the aperture in the skull. Generally speaking, fungous tumors of the dura mater are very dangerous, as well on account of their nature as of the difficulty of curing them in any certain manner, and of the internal and external disorder which they may occasion. Such as have a pedicle, the base of which is not exten- sive, which are firm in their texture without much disease in the surrounding bone, are movable, not very painful, and, in persons who are in other respects q^uite well, are in general reputed to be the least perilous. These are the cases in which a cure may be attempted with a hope of success, though the event is always exceedingly doubtful. When the contrary of what has been just re- lated occurs—when the disease is of long continu- ance, and the brain already affected—nothing fa- vourable can be expected. Compression is the most simple remedial means, and has naturally occurred to such practitioners as have mistaken the disease for an aneurism, or a hernia cerebri. The efficacy of this method has been further misconceived, because the tumor, when not very large, has sometimes been partly or even wholly reduced, without any bad consequences. This had no little share in leading to errors con- cerning the true character of the disease. But, as might be conceived, this reduction only being at- tended with temporary success, and having no effect whatever on the original cause of the affec- tion, the symptoms returned, and the tumor rose up again the moment the compression was discon- tinued. There is a fact in tiie memoir of M. Louis which seems to evince that good effects may some- times be produced by compression judiciously cm- ployed. A woman, brought to the brink of the grave by the symptoms occasioned by a tumor of the above kind, having rested with her head for some time on the same side as the tumor, found the swelling so suddenly reduced, without nny ill effects, that she thought herself cured by some miracle. Compression, artfully kept up by means of a piece of tin fastened to her cap pre- vented the protrusion of the tumor again ' The pressure, however, not having been always very exact, the symptoms every now and then recurred while the tumor was in the act of being depressed again, and they afterwards ceased, on the swel- hng having assumed a suitable position. The symptoms were, doubtless, occasioned by the irri- tation which the tumor suffered in passing the inequalities around the opening through which it protruded. The patient lived in this state nine years, having every now and then fits of insensi- bility, in one of which, attended with hiccough and vomiting, she perished. [These cases of fungous tumors of the dura mater are, for the most part, of a malignant character, and do not admit of operative procedure either by the knife or by escharotics. The surgeon's skill will be best shown in determining, in each individual case, whether the growth be of an inno- cent nature or not. The following directions, given by Mr. Cooper for their removal, will only apply to the comparatively few cases in which the operator can feel assured of the non-malignancy of the growth he has to deal with; and even in such cases it is more than doubtful whether the dura mater should be so extensively interfered with as Mr. Cooper suggests.] As compression cannot be depended upon, the following safer method may be tried:—It consists in exposing the tumor with a knife, which is cer- tainly preferable to caustics, the action of which is very tedious and painful, and can never be limi- ted or extended with any degree of precision. A crucial incision may be made through the scalp covering the tumor, and the flaps dissected up, and reflected, so as to bring all the bony circum- ference into view. Then with trephines repeat- edly applied, or with (what would be better) Mr. Key's saws, all the margin of the bone should be carefully removed. Now, if it be true that the vessels of the diploe are chiefly concerned in the supply of the diseased mass, we see that this source of its growth must be destroyed by the foregoing proceeding. The tumor, thus disengaged on all sides, may be cut off with a scalpel; and such arteries as bleed much should be tied. Then, instead of ap- plying caustic, as sometimes advised, perhaps it would be better to remove every part of both layers of the dura mater immediately under the situation of the excrescence. By this means, and the removal of the surrounding bone and diploe, all chance of the regeneration of the tumor would be prevented. In attempting the excision cf a fungus of the dura mater, it is certainly an inte- resting point to know whether the tumor has an intimate vascular connection with the diploe and pericranium, as asserted by Siebold, Walther, and some other respectable authorities, though the importance of the information on this subject to the practitioner is somewhat lessened by his being aware that it is necessary always to begin with sawing away the bone in the immediate vicinity of the diseased mass. In the dissection of one case, Walther found the pericranium thickened for a considerable extent around the disease, and closely connected with the tumor by vessels. (Vol. cit. p. 100.) When the tumor is sarcomatous, and its pedi-