612 ECTROPION, with a probe dipped in sulphuiic acid, and gently applies every day, or every second day, the sulphate of copper, at the same, time not omitting some minor remedies, which he also employs in cases proceed- ing from contraction of the skin independent of any^ cicatrix, and which I shall presently notice. {Operative Surgery of tha Eye, p. 70.) In recent cases, where the patient is weak and irritable (or a child), Beer commences the treatment with simply applying every day the tincture of opium, which, after a time, is strengthened by the addition of naphtha. To the relaxed conjunctiva he after- wards applies escharotic eye-salves, and lastly, the nitrate of silver, and muriate of antimony. When the part is hard and callous, the caustic is preceded by scarifications. {Leh-e, 4'c., b. ii. p. 136.) For remedying the inveterate form of the first species of the disease, Beer and Scarpa are ad- vocates for cutting away the whole of the fungous swelling closely from the inside of the eyelid. The following is Scarpa's description of the operation: — The patient being seated, with his head a little inclined backward, the surgeon, with the index and middle finger of his leffhand, is to keep the eyelid steadily everted; and holding a small pair of curved scissors with convex edges, in his right, he is completely to cut off the whole fun- posity of the internal membrane of the eyelid, as iiear as possible to its base. The same operation is then to be repeated on the other eyelid, should that be affected with the same disorder. If the excrescence should be of such a shape, that it cannot be exactly included within the scissors, it must be raised with a forceps, or a double hook, and dissected off at its base, by means of a small bistoury with a convex edge. The bleeding stops of itself, or as soon as the eye has been bathed with cold water. The surgeon is then to apply two small compresses, one put on the upper, the other on the lower arch of the orbit, and over these the uniting bandage, in the form of the monoculus, or so as to compress and replace the edges of the everted eyelids, in order to make them cover the eye. On the first removal of the dressings, which shoull take place in twenty-four or thirty hours after the operation, the surgeon will find the whole, or almost the whole of the eyelid, in its natural position. The wound on the inside of the eyelid should then be washed twice a day with simple water or barlej'-water. If, towards the end of the cure, it should assume a fungous appearance, or the edge of the eyelid Beem to be too distant from the eyeball, the wound on the inside of the eyelid must be rubbed several times with the nitrate of silver, for the purpose of destroying a little more of the mem- branous lining, so that, when the cicatrisation fol- lows, a greater contraction of it may take place, and the edue of the ej'elid be drawn still nearer the eye. In England, the excision of the fungous thick- ened portion of the conjunctiva, has mostly been >'elii)(|uished for the employment of caustic. The '.ifliLulty of dissecting off cveiy particle of the lungus renders the practice of excision less certain 'han the treatment with caustic. Scarpa confesses Its occasional failure, and the necessity of then jiavmg recourse to the latter plan. Ilemours also ■ ^ts the employment of caustic follow the use of the link. (Mai. des Yctix, p. 90.) In ectropion ?rora a relaxed fungous state of the conjunctiv;i, (he consequence of purulent ophthalmia. Dr. Vetch begins with alight careful application of the nitrate of silver to the whole granulated villous surface. The everted part is then to be returned, and secured m Its iilace with a compress, and straps of plaster and a bandage. Every time the eye is cleaned, the same things are to be repeated, and, in the course of a few days, the tendency to protrude will dis- appear. ( Oti Diseases of the Eye, p. 228.) In the species of ectropion produced by an ac- cidental contraction of the skin of the eyelids, or neighbouring parts, Scarpa observes, that, if a contraction of the integuments has proved capable of everting the eyelid, the excision of a piece of the internal membrane of the part, and the cicatrix which will follow, must also be capable, for the same reason, of bringing back the eyelid into its natural position. But, since nothing can restore the lost skin, the shortened state of the whole eye- lid, in whatever degree it exists, must always continue, even after any operation the most skilfully executed. Hence the treatment of the second species of ectropion will never succeed so perfectly as that of the first, and the replaced eyelid will always remain shorter than natural, in proportion to the quantity of integuments lost. It is true that, in many cases, the eversion seems greater than it actually is, in regard to the small quantity of skin lost or destroyed ; for, when the disease has once begun, though the contraction of the skin may be trivial, in consequence of the little quantity of it deficient, still the swelling of the lining of the eyelid, which never fails to increase, at last brings on a complete eversion of the part. In these cases, the cure may be accomplished with such success as is surprising to the inexperienced ; for, after the fungous swelling of the internal membrane of the eyelid has been cut off, and the edge of the part approximated to the eyeball, the shortening of the eyelid remaining after the operation is so trivial, that it maybe considered as nothing in comparison with the deformity and inconvenience occasioned by the ectropion, Whenever, therefore, the re- traction of the skin of the everted eyelid, and the consequent shortness of it, are such as not to pre- vent its rising again and covering the eye, if not entirely, at least moderately, Scarpa directs the surgeon to cut away the internal membrane of the everted eyelid, so as to produce a loss of substance on the inside of it. In inveterate cases of ectro- pion, in which the lining of the eyelids has become hard and callous, Scarpa applies to the everted eye- lid, for a few days before the operation, a soft bread and milk poultice. The division of the cicatrices, which have given rise to the shortening and eversion of the e3*elid,as Scarpa observes, does not procure any permanent elongation of this part, and consequently it is of no avail in the cute of the present disease. Fabricius ab Aqimpendente, who well knew the inutility of making a semilunar cut in the skin of the eyelids, for the purpose of remedying their shortness ami eversion, proposes, as the best expedient, to stretch tliem with adhesive plasters applied to them and the eyebrow, and tied closely together. Whatever advantage maj' result from this practice, the snir.o degree of benefit maj' be derived from using, for a few days, a bread and milk poultice, afterwards oily embrocations, and, lastly, the uniting bandage, so put on as to stretch the shortoiu'd eyelid in an opposite direction to that produced by the cicatrix;