HEAD, INJUB The occipito-frontalis is loosely connected with the external pericranium by a distinct layer of cellu- lar membrane, in which also are distributed in- numerable small vessels. The intimate connection between the skin and the occipito-frontalis tendon is not without its interest in a surgical point of view, for it explains the fact that in extensive lacerations of the scalp it is rare that a part of any magnitude becomes completely detached; and as, from the same cause, the skin cannot retract after laceration, the edges of the wound are easily retained in apposition after they have been re- adjusted. A close sympathy between the various strata which compose the scalp results from the union of their blood-vessels,— a sympathy which from a similar cause exists between the pericra- nium and the bones, and between the bones and the dura mater : thus a continuous sympathy may be traced between the surface of the scalp and the cerebral meninges. Contusions of the Scalp.— Independently of ordinary bruises, to which this part is obvi- ously very liable, there are two forms of con- tusion of considerable interest, and which vary materially in their character and result : thus it happens that in bruises of the scalp eiFusion of blood occurs in some cases beneath the tendon of the occipito-frontalis to an enormous extent, whilst in others the effusion is limited to a circumscribed space, and from its peculiar position assumes a shape and condition which often lead the inex- perienced to an entire misconception of its true character. There is scarcely any limit to the ex- tent of the extravasation beneath the tendon of the occipito-frontalis : every surgeon of experience can bear witness to the truth of this assertion. We have seen the scalp raised up in the form of a soft undu- lating bag extending on either side as far as the zygoma, and protruding the skin of the forehead so as to produce a deformity in this direction which totally altered the outline of the features. Expe- rience leads us to believe that these extensive effusions are more common in children. The effusion is occasionally bounded by an irregular line of coagulum which seems to limit its extent. Such effusions under simple treatment usually disappear in a few days, but occasionally partial suppurations occur, necessitating more active surgical inter- ference. Rest, slightly elevating the head, cold applications, gently supporting but not compressive bandaging, comprise the category of external reme- dies ; whilst free purging and a moderately anti- inflammatory regimen, succeeded by a more gene- rous diet, are necessary to promote absorption of the effused blood. It happens occasionally that a portion remains unabsorbed for weeks ; never- theless it is better to abstain from cutting the Bcalp, unless a blush of inflammation indicates approaching suppuration : the formation of matter may be advantageously anticipated by an early opening. When effusion of blood takes place in the meshes of the condensed tissue connecting the skin to the tendon of the occipito-frontalis, its extent is more limited, but it gives rise to a very remarkable condition. When the part is exa- mined the impression communicited to the fingers is as if the surface of the scalp were depressed into a cuplike form: this is most probably due first to the limited extent of the effusion, and next to the imperfect coagulation of the blood, lES OF THE. 873 the centre being in a fluid state. Such cases may- be mistaken for depressed fracture of the skull: the diagnosis is, however, very easy. If the thumb-nail is firmly pressed against the margin of the apparent depression an indentation is made, whilst if the bone is really depressed no impres- sion can be made on it in this manner. It cer- tainly happens that cases occasionally occur of such ambiguity that a surgical exploration is quite justifiable, even where the cupping arises from effusion of blood; for although no surgeon, in the absence of symptoms of pressure on the brain, would willingly cut through the coagulum to the bone for the purpose of examining the skull, yet if symptoms of pressure, however obscure, exist, he has no alternative, but must make an incision, as a fracture may be found beneath the extravasa- tion, and effusion of blood upon the dura mater may be detected under the fractured bone. We have seen many instances of this. The local and general treatment for the relief of these limited effusions is similar to that recommended in the preceding class of cases, but bandages may be dis- pensed with. The effusion will be found generally in the meshes of the subcutaneous cellular tissue. We have verified this statement by necessary ex- plorative incisions during life, and by post-mortem examination. Similar appearances may no doubt result from extravasation into the loose cellular membrane connecting the occipito-frontalis and the pericranium. In some severe contusions of the scalp a distinct pulsation may be detected in the centre of the bruised part: this arises from a rupture of numerous small arterial branches, and generally ceases after a time under the employment of ice and pressure. But a distinct small spm^ious aneurism is formed occasionally, requiring pressure for its cure; and if this fails it may be transfixed with pins and tied, or it may be incised and the wounded vessel sought and tied. We witnessed a doubtful case of spurious aneurism of the posterior branch of the temporal artery cured by the latter method : the aneurismal dilatation was very dis- tinct, but there was some doubt as to whether a branch of the temporal artery had not been punc- tured. In all cases of severe contusions of the scalp there is a great risk of suppuration beneath the tendon of the occipito-frontalis. When matter is formed, however limited the extent of the collec- tion, it should be let out at once by a free pendent opening made through the tendon, the larger branches of the arteries being avoided. When suppuration occurs as a consequence of injury to the pericranium, the bones themselves may die; and, further, as a result of the continuous sympathy established between the parts, matter may be formed on the surface of the dura mater. Of Punctured Wounds of the Scalp.—A punc- ture may penetrate all the tissues of the scalp: the generality of such cases usually soon get well under simple treatment; but it often happens that erysipelas supervenes, especially in persons who have led a debauched and irregular life, and this may be followed by sloughing of the occipito-fron- talis tendon, or, as is much more common, by abs- cess. The characters of this form of inflammation are elsewhere considered, and the treatment to bo pursued for its cure is bo fully discussed that we forbear to make any further especial allusion to the subject. Although we cannot hesitate to admit tliat