DURA MATER. formed, it makes its way outward through nil the parts, soft or hard, which are opposed to it. The swelling, in becoming circumscribed, is parti}' blended with the dura mater, and its pressure produces an absorption of such parts of the skull as oppose its enlargement. It unexpectedly elevates itself extornall}', confounding itself with the scalp, and presents itself outwardly in the form of a pre- ternatural, soft, yielding swelling, which even sometimes betrays an appearance of a decided fluctuation, or a pulsation, which may make it be mistaken for an aneurismal tumor. When once the swelling has made its exit from the cavity of the cranium, it expands on every side under the integuments, which readily make way for its growth. The scalp becomes distended, smooth, and cedematous over the extent of the tumor, and lastly, it ulcerates. The matter discharged from the ulcerations is thin and sanious : the outer part of the tmnor is confounded with the integuments and edges of the skull, on which it rests, so that, in this state, it is easy to mistake the tumor for one whose base is altogether external. While the swel- ling thus increases in size externally, it also enlarges jntemally. The latter change takes place especially while the opening in the cranium is not large enough to admit the whole mass of the tumor, which then depresses the brain, and lodges in an excavation, which it forms for itself. But this cavity quickly diminishes, and becomes re- duced almost to nothing, as soon as the tumor projects outwardly. The tables of the skull are absorbed to let the swelling arrive externally; but it is remarked, that the internal, or vitreous table, is always found much more extensively destroyed than the external one. Sometimes new bony matter is found deposited around the opening in the cranium. It is asserted, that, whatever may be the situa- tion of a fungous tumor of the dura mater, the outer layer of this membrane, upon which the disease forms, is alone altered, the inner layer and the pia mater being always unchanged. {Lassus, Pathologie Chirurgieale, torn. i. p. 501. ed. 1809.) In one of these cases, detailed by Walther, the inner layer of the dura mater was quite natural, though one-half of the tumor, which was large, was within the skull, where it had formed for itself a deep excavation in the posterior lobe of the brain. And, what is remarkable, notwithstanding this lat- ter change, the patient, the day before her death, retained all her intellectual faculties, and the power of voluntary motion. {Joiirn.fur Chirurgie von C. Graefe und Ph. v. Wall/ior, b. i. pp. G4, 66, Ovo. Berlin, 1820.) According to surgical writers, fungous tumors of the dura mater have been caused by contusions on the skull, falls on the buttocks, concussions of the head or whole body, lues venerea, scrofula, inveterate rheumatism, &c. The three last of the alleged causes, however, seem to be little better than mere conjecture. Even children of the most tender 5*ears are liable to the disease. M. Louis has related, that a child, two years of age, died of fungus of the dura mater, which had produced a swelling above the right ear, attended with a destruction of a portion of the parietal and temporal bones. (Man, de I'AcaU. da Chirurgie, torn. v. 4to. p. 31.) Though the common opinion is, that these fungi grow entirely from the dura mater, Sandifort asserts, that the vessels of the diploe have a consi- derable share in their production. {Deseriptio Musei Anat. Acad. Lngd. t. i. p. 152.) A similar belief was entertained by Heister and Kaufmann, and is espoused by Siebold andWalther, the latter imputing the disease to a simultaneous affection of the vessels of the dura mater, and peri- cranium, attended with an absorption of the earthy part of the bone. {Journ.jur Chir. von. C. Graefe, ^c. p. 91—93.) M. Chelius has written an essay, in which a distinction is established between tumors commencing in the bone, and others beginning in the dura mater itself. (See Archives de Med. Mars, 1832.) The existence of a fungous tumor of the dura mater cannot be ascertained so long as there is no external change. The effects pro- duced may originate from so many causes, that there would be great risk of a gross mistake iu referring them to any particular ones. Tliis is not the case when there is an opening in the skull. Then a hardness, felt from the very first at the circumference of the tumor, denotes that it comes from within. When the swelling is carefully handled, such a crackling sensation is perceived, as would arise from touching dry parchment stretched over the skin. On making much pres- sure, pain is occasioned, and sometimes a numb- ness in all the limbs, stupefaction and other more or less afflicting symptoms. The tumor in some measure returns inwards, especially, ivheji not very large, and gradually rises up and outward again, when the pressure is discontinued. Sometimes there is pain ; at other times there is none ; which may be owing to the manner in which the tumor is affected by the edges of the bone through which it passes._ The pain is often made to go off by compression, but returns as soon as this is taken off. The tumor has an alternate motion, derived from the pulsation of the brain, or of the large arteries at its base. This throbbing motion has led many practitioners to mistake the disease for an aneurism, as happened in the second case related in the memoir of M. Louis. When the tumor is pushed sideways, and the finger carried between it and the edge of the bone, through which the disease protrudes, the bony edge may be felt, touching the base of the swelling, and more or less constricting it. This symptom, when distinguishable, added to a certain hardness and elasticitj', and sometimes a facility of reduction forms a pathognomonic mark, whereby fungous tumors of the dura mater may be discriminated from hernia; of the brain, external fleshy tumors abscesses, exostosis, and other affections, which at first sight resemble them. Probably, however, some variety prevails in different instances ; for, in tlio cases recorded by Walther, there was no pulsation, strictly so called but merely an obscure movement, or .an alternate distension and flaccidity, arising from the influx of blood into the vessels of the diseased mass ; the tumors could not bo pushed within the cranium in the slightest degree ; nor did the attempt cause any of the effects usually observed to proceed from pressure on the brain. No aperture could bo felt in the skull, much less could the irregular edges of the bone around the tumor be distinguished. {Journ. fur Chir. b. i. p. 57—01, &c. 8vo. Berlin) 1820.^ Wliatever niovementa also were perceptible iu