CONJUNCTIVITIS rU,SrT^V^'^, ^-'^^ ecfbn and des Maladies des Yeua:, ed. 2, vol. ii. 1855; and GraeJe,Arc/av /urOpMia/moloffie, Bd. l,Abtlil. 1, f)S4, p. ] 68-249, and p. 288; also Dd. 2, Abthi. 2 1856, p. l,-)8;also Rd. 3, Abthl. 2, 1857, p. 308. For injtirieB, inflammation, and ulcers of the conjunctiva, see tlie articles Conjunctivitis and Ophthalmia. For pterygium see the article rTERYGIUM.] CONJUNCTIVITIS (Inflammation of the Conjunctiva). [The most correct and scientific term for the pnniary inflammation of this mem- brane IS conjunctivitis, but the term ophthalmia has been so long in use, that it is convenient still to retain it, and to limit its application to the various inflammations of the conjunctival mem- brane. We may arrange these afl^ections under the following heads :— Ophthalmia Simple Pustular. Catarrhal. Purulent. Strumous. Acute, Irritable, and Subacute Chronic. In the simple form of acnie opldhahnia, we usually find the following symptoms :—A sense of heat and pncking m the eye, profuse lachrymation of a burning and often acrid character, some into- lerance of light, difficulty in opening the eye, great sense of uneasmess, pain and weight of the eyeball sometimes referred to the brow ; the vision is uu- aifected, but the power of looking is much im- paired. On examining the eye, the outer portion of the conjunctiva is found to be chiefly involved. The injection of the vessels does not extend to the capillaries and secreting surface, as may be easily seen, if we contrast a case of simple and catarrhal ophthalmia together. The only persistent result of simple ophthalmia is a deposit of small white granules, that grate upon the point of a needle, and are apparently of a chalky nature. They indicate a chronic and obsti- nate form of simple ophthalmia. They are usually observed in the palpebral conjunctiva. Whatever may be the cause of the ophthalmia, the first point to attend to is carefully to examine the surface of the eye, to ascertain if there is anj benefit. This may be accom- fn lnf ^ r''"' "^ri*^ evaporating lotions or by a small fountain or stream of cold ZTt^' Pli'ying on the surface of the Ids—the essential point being its frequent repeti- Uon, so as to keep the tempera'ture of ?l,e part loS Un the other hand, where the inflammation is verv severe, and there is considerable constitutional dis- turbance, and some important function is disturbed or arrested, warm applications will be found most congenial to the patient, and will soothe and allay local irritation. In those cases that have become subacute, and have assumed the asthenic type, warmth is usually preferred. In all cases of simple ophthalmia, where the secretion is aqueous, stiniu- lating and caustic lotions, drops, and ointments, particularly those containing the nitrate of silver, not only are not indicated, but are verv injurious • and often, by their injudicious application, prolong and aggravate an attack. Feiv cases are more painful, intractable, and obstinate than such as have been thus irritated. It seems as if a specific disease Had been superadded more difficult to subdue than the original one. In such cases, lotions, if used at all, should be of a very mild character, such as rose water, weak vinegar and water, elder flower water, or a weak solution of the acetate of lead—about two grains to an ounce of water—all of which act chiefly by their cooling influence ; counter-irrita- tion does not seem to me of any value in this early and acute stage. The constitutional treatment must correspond with the conditions of the system; if there IS fever, and the functions of any important viscera are interrupted, the anti-phlogistic plan must be adopted. Mr. Dixon remark-s :—« First ascertain what is faulty in the general health—the bowels, appetite, sleep, &c. In a plethoric, over-stimulated patient, restricted diet and purgatives will be as necessary as quinine and iron in a feeble and lanauid one, or opium and hyoscyamus in a third. Rest of the aflFected organ, moderate protection from light occasionally the counter-irritation of a small blister to the temple, or, if there be much intolerance of light, the application of tincture of iodine to the skin of the upper lid and the use of warm fomenta- tions, simple or medicated, are the usual local means. In using stimulating lotions, it should be remembered that their use is not to be persevered ln.nl -7 r A -c l\ " " ^eniemuerea tnat tneir use is not to be persevered ocalirritant ; and if time IS any reason to suspect in too long, otherwise they keep up instead of this, and nothing can be observed on the anterior subduing the irritability of the conjunctiva The part of the globe, the upper eyelid should be annlir.ntinn nf f,-„oi, .: .-.x . . part of the globe, the upper eyelid sliould be everted and examined. It usually happens that after the exciting cause of acute ophthalmia is removed, the symptoms subside spontaneously and speedily. Where this is not the case, great benefit usually follows the application of leeches. It is especially in recent and acute ophthalmia, that the local abstraction of blood is useful. The leeches should be applied close to the outer canthus, and propor- tionate in number to the severity of the inflamma- tion—from six to eight being about an average. It 13 useless to repeat them more than once or twice, as the disease then either subsides or assumes a character and condition in which they are of no avail We usually find that in acute simple opiitlialmia, wheie the attack is recent and un- complicated with constitutional disturbance, that the constant application of cold in such a manner as to abstract heat from the part, and to keep (town the temperature, is productive of both application of fresh spermaceti ointment to the edges of the lids at night, is a comfort in nearly all cases of ophthalmia, whether slight or severe." In the subacute and asthenic form of ophthalmia, we find the conjunctiva highly injected, and oi" a deep red colour, of a darker shade than in acute ophthalmia ; the lids are somewhat swollen, and of a dull red aspect near their margin ; lachiymation is profuse and scalding, pain is severe, the eyeball feels heavy and full, light is distressing. On examining the general state of system, the extre- mities are found cold, the pulse quick, irritable, weak, and compressible, the tongue moist and flabby, the countenance pallid, the surface clammy. Local means are comparatively unavailing, what- ever may have been the source of the state of things. A soothing plan, such as the combination of warmth with opiates, as in the ordinary' poppy fomentation, together with an occasional blister, is beneficial ; local stimuli being hero as much contra-indicated as