218 ANEURISM valves, and some degree of hypertroplij'. A pul- sation above the sternum may be occasioned by carotid aneurism, which is liable to be confounded with aneurism of the aorta, or of the subclavian arterj'. Dr. Hope informs us, that in April, 1826, he saw in Guy's Hospital a case which led to much deliberation respecting the propriety of taking up the carotid above a pulsation tumor, supposed to be an aneurism of that artery. The plan, however, was judiciously abandoned, for the disease proved to be a dilatation of the aorta and innominata. \{See Hope, in Cyclop, of Tract. Med. art. Aoria.') Few diseases, according to Laennec, are so in- sidious as aneurism of the thoracic aorta. He affirms, " that it cannot be known with certainty till it shows itself externally. It can hardly be suspected, even when it compresses sonie important organ, and greatly deranges its functions. When it produces neither of these effects, the first indi- cation of its existence is often the death of the individual, as instantaneously as if by a pistol- bullet." One case, recorded by Mr. Pattison, confirms the same fact, for the patient had only symptoms leading to a suspicion of rheumatism in the neck, and died suddenly of apolexy. {Burns, On ilie Head and Neck, ed. hy Pattison.) Laennec has known persons cut off in this manner, who were believed to be in the most perfect health. He admits, that percussion will sometimes enable us to detect a tumor of large size, existing within the mediastinum, or even in the back ; but not to discriminate the nature of the swelling. His ex- perience had not been sufficient to let him pro- nounce how far the difficulty of diagnosis was likely to be removed by the stethoscope. Dr. Hope has met with six or seven instances in which large aneurisms had existed without awakening even a suspicion of them. One, in particular, eluded the penetration of a distinguished foreign auscultator, thou-^h he explored the lungs with emment suc- cess. {Hope, in Cyclop, of Pract. Med. art. Aorta.) Aneurisms of the abdominal aorta, Laennec ad- mits, may be recognised with the utmost facility by means of the stethoscope. In this case \ye are sensible of tremendous pulsations, which pamiuliy affect the ear, and the intensity of which is not at all recognised by the hand, even when sufficiently perceptible to the touch. As high up as the celiac artery, the contractions of the auricles arc not in the least distinguishable. The sound of the pulsations is clear and loud. {Laennec, On Diseases of the Chest, p. 678, &c.) . Laennec believed that thoracic aneurism might sometimes be recognised by its simple or rather s!»(//c pulsation, which is much stronger than the double pulsation of the heart; but that, in most instances, this criterion would fail, in consequence of the sound of the heart and that of the aneurism being confounded together. But as the auricular sound is not audible over the abdomen, Laennec had no difficulty in recognising ventral aneurism by the simple pulsation. The following arc some of the criteria, specified by Dr. Hope, for distinguishing the pulsation of thoracic aneurisms from the beat- ing of the heart; and, in some important points, his observations have received confirmation from the experience of Dr. Greene. (See Researches on the Symptoms, <5'f. ofAnenrisms of the Thoracic Aorta, DubL.Joimi. of Medicine, xo]. yn. p. -Xn.) 1. The first aneurismal sound, comcidiiig with the pulse, is invariably louder than the healthy ven- tricular sound, <md generally than the most con- siderable bellows-murmurs of the ventricles. 2. On exploring the aneurismal sound from its source towards the region of the heart it is found to decrease progressively, until it either becomes totally inaudible, or is lost in the predominance of the ventricular sound. If the sound emanated from the heart alone, instead of decreasing, it would increase on approximating the praecordial region. 3. The second sound actually does sustain this progressive augmentation on advancing towards the heart. 4. The aneurismal pulsation is a deep hoarse tone, of short duration, with an abrupt com- mencement and termination. It is compared to that of the rasping of a sounding-board heard from a distance. But the sound occasioned by val- vular disease of the heart has more analogy to the bellows-murmur, being somewhat soft and prolonged, with a gradual swell and fall. 6. In simple dilatation of the thoracic aorta, the/remwse- ment cataire, or purring tremor, is more consider- able than in sacculated aneurism, particularly if the former be accompanied with much asperity of the internal membrane. It is also very correctly noticed by Dr. Hope, that the sound of aneurisms is, in most instances, audible on the back ; and when the tumor occupies the descending aorta, it is often louder behind than on the breast; and if it is of the abrupt rasping kind, it amounts almost to positive evidence. Pulsation, he observes, attends every species of enlargement of the aorta. In dilatation, it exists only above the sternal ends of the clavicles, and always on both sides of the neck simultaneously ; though, when the enlarge- ment is confined to the ascending aorta, it is stronger on the right than on the left side. When dilatation is in the form of a pouch, and of great magnitude, it may occasion pulsation under the ster- num. Carotid and subclavian aneurisms produce impulse, sound, and tremor, on the affected side only ; and by this circumstance they may easily be discriminated from aortic enlargements. In sac- culated aneurisms in the upper part of the chest, pulsation exists both above and below the clavicles; but Dr. Hope has generally found it stronger below. (Hope, in Cyclop, of Pract. Med. art. Aorta.) M. Bertin also believed, as Dr. Hope does, that Laennec underrated the power of the stethoscope to detect aneurism of ■ the thoracic aorta. {Mai. du Coeur, p. 143.) Still, it is a fact, that even with the assistance of this instrument, thoracic aneurism sometimes cannot be detected, and produces symptoms leading to a suspicion of other affections, to which the treatment is directed accordingly. (See Porter, in Dubl Jour,,, vol. iv. p. 206, etc.) I have mentioned, that the symptoms of thoracic aneurisms, previously to the formation of any out- ward swelling, often resemble those of iihthisis, and the latter is sometimes actually supposed to be the disease under which the patient is Labouring. But there is one distinction bet^ycen the cases, pointed out by Mr. Hodgson, which may be of use, in combination with other circumstances, m facilitating the diagnosis: "In phthisis, the expec- toration is cither puriform, or thick and clotted ; but in aneurisms wliich are not accompanied with disease in the lungs, as far as I have obsorvxd it always consists of a thin frothy mucus. {On Dis. of Arteries, <S'c. p. 93.) According to Kreysig s