the case ia a gonorrhoea! discharge, or rather one produced by the application of infectious matter, or only an accidental discharge, arising from some unknown cause. Treatment op Gonorrhcea. Mr. Hunter supposed that every form of the venereal disease arose from the same cause, and that, as we have a specific remedy for some forms, it might be conceived or expected this would be a certain cure for every one; and, there- fore, that it must be no difficult task to cure the disease, when in the form of inflammation and suppuration in the urethra. But we have already explained that the poison of gonorrhoea is distinct from that of syphilis, and experience teaches us that gonorrhoea is most variable in its symptoms, while xmder treatment; and the most uncertain, with respect to its cure, many cases terminating in a week, while others continue for months under the same remedial means. Whatever differences of opinion may be enter- tained respecting the cause of gonorrhoea, and par- ticularly with regard to its being excited by the influence of a specific poison, its inflammatory nature cannot be overlooked; and it is this cha- racter of the disorder, which determines, in a great measure, the plan of treatment. The great indication, however, insisted upon by Mr. Hunter, was that of destroying the disposition and specific mode of action in the solids of the parts, and as tliey become changed, the poisonous quality of the matter produced will also be destroyed. Gonorrhcea is incapable of being continued beyond a certain time in any constitution; and, when it is violent, or of long duration, it is owing to the part being very susceptible of such irrita- tion, and readily retaining it. As no specific re- medy for gonorrhoea is known, it is fortunate that ^time alone will effect a cure. Mr. Hunter was "'inclined to think medicine not of the least use, in nine cases out of ten. But even this would be of some consequence, if the cases, capable of being benefited, could be distinguished. Surgeons of the present day, however, have less despondency on this subject than the distinguished man whose opinion I have just now cited. The means of cure, generally adopted, are of two kinds, internal remedies and local applica- tions; but, whatever plan is pursued, Mr. Hunter inculcates the doctrine that we are always to attend more to the nature of the constitution, or to any accompanying disease in the parts them- selves, or parts connected with them, than to the gonorrhrea itself. When the symptoms are of the ordinary inflam- matory kind, known by the extent of the inflam- mation not exceeding the specific distance, Mr. Hunter found stimulating applications less danger- ous than when irritable inflammation is present: they seemed to him capable of altering the specific action; but, to produce this effect, their irritation must be greater than that of the original injury; and, as MM. CuUerier and Raticr observe, they must be tried at the very beginning of tlie case. Tlie parts will afterwards recover of themselves, as from any other common inflammation. Mr. Hunter believes, hov/cvcr, that in the be- ginning the soothing plan is generally the best. H the inflammation be great, and of the irritable kind, no violence is to be used, for it would only GONORRHCEA. 795 increase the symptoms ; and he states that nothing should be done that can tend to stop the discharge, as it would not put a stop to the inflammation. But, if the disease has begun mildly, a stimu- lating injection may be used, in order quickly to get rid of the specific mode of action. This appli- cation will increase the symptoms for a time; but, when it is left off, they will often abate, or wholly disappear; and, after such abatement, mild astringents may be used, the discharge being the only thing to be removed. When itching, pain, and other uncommon sen- sations are felt for some time before the discharge appears, Mr. Hunter diffidently expresses his in- clination to recommend the soothing plan, instead of the irritating one, in order to bring on the discharge, which is a step towards the resolution of the irritation ; and he adds that to use astrin- gents would be bad practice, as by retarding the discharge they would only protract the cure. When there are stricture or swelled testicles, astringents should not be used ; for, while there is a discharge, such complaints are relieved. Mr. Hunter thus expresses himself in regard to the effect of mercury in gonorrhcea : " I doubt very much of mercury having any specific virtue in this disease, for I find that it is as soon cured without mercury as with it, &c. So little effect, indeed, has this medicine upon a gonorrhoea, that I have known a gonorrhoea to take place (while the patient was) imder a course of mercury sufficient for the cure of a chancre. Men have also been knovvn to contract a gonorrhcea when loaded with mercmy for the cure of a lues venerea ; the gonorrhoea, nevertheless, has been as difficult of cure as in ordinary cases." Mr. Hunter does not say much in favour of evacuants, diuretics, and astringents, given inter- nally. He allows, however, that remedies, which act specifically on the parts, as the balsams, con- joined with any other medicine, which may be thought right, may help to lessen the discharge, in proportion as the inflammation abates. Local applications may be either internal to the urethra, external to the penis, or both. Those which arc applied'to the urethra seem to promise most eflicacy, because they come into immediate contact with the diseased parts. They may be either in a solid or a fluid fi)rm. A fluid is only a very temporary application. The solid ones, or bougies, may remain a long while, but in general irritate immediately, from their solidity alone; and Mr. Hunter says the less bougies are used when the parts are in an inflamed state, the better. At present, bougies are rarely used in gonorrhoea, in consequence of their tendency to bring on a swelling of the testes. The fluid applications, or injections, in use are innumerable, and gonorrhea freciuently gets well' with many of various kinds. They often have an immediate effect on the symptoms, and hence must have power ; though the injection wliicli possesses tlie greatest power is unknown. As injections are only temporary applications, the}- nuist be used often, especially when found useful, and not of an irritating kind. Mr. Hunter divides injections into four kinds, the irrilaiing, scdalive, emollienl, and aslringenl. According to his doctrines, irritating injections of every kind, act in this disease upon the same