58] DISLOCATION. only mentions one case of this displacement, ob- served by M. Parise. The accident was caused by forced flexion of the foot upon the leg. In con- sequence of the swelling the nature of the accident ■was not recognised, and reduction was not at- tempted. Nine months afterwards the following was the condition of the parts :—The foot was bent to a right angle on the leg, its point a little turned inwards, its internal border slightly de- pressed. The anterior part of the foot was length- ened, the bones of the leg having passed backwards with the astragalus, so that the external malleolus nearly touched the tendo Achillis. By pressing on the'instep the extensor tendons were felt to be tense; on the outer side was an osseous prominence, which appeared to be the head of the astragalus, and im- mediately in front of it a deep depression. Pos- teriorly the prominence of the heel was completely effaced, and the leg flattened; the posterior surface of the leg was interrupted at the level of, and a little beneath the malleoli, by an osseous projection, which raised the tendo Achillis and overlapped the 03 calcis posteriorly by nearly half an inch. Above this projection was another, less prominently marked, formed by the posterior border of the ar- ticular surface of the tibia. There was no trace of fracture or separation of the malleoli. The leg was shortened about a quarter of an inch. The toes were much flexed, the great toe in both pha- langes, the four other toes in the two last phalanges only, the first phalanges being, on the contrary, raised at an angle upon the metatarsal bones, indi- cating thus the elongation which both flexor and extensor tendons had undergone. (See Malgaigne, Traite, des Frael. t. ii. p. 1047, and Parise, Annales de la Oiir. 1845, t. xiv. p. 467.)] IDonble or complete dislocations qftJie astragalus. In these cases the astragalus is displaced from all its articular connections ; from the tibia and fibula, as well as from the scaphoid and os calcis. These, like the sub-astragaloid dislocations, may take place in various directions, and it is necessary, as in those cases, to speak of a disloca- tion forwards, inwards, outwards, and backwards, with the addition of two others ; viz. a rotatory dislocation (luxation par rotation sur place—Mal- gaigne), in which the bone remains between the tibia and os calcis, but undergoes a movement of rotation, more or less extensive, on its vertical axis; and a dislocation '■^par renversement," in which the bone may become turned completely upside down.] [ 1. Douhle or complete dislocation of tlie astragalus forwards. — In this case the astragalus is thrown forwards from between the tibia and os calcis, and rests upon the upper surface of the tarsus. This kind of displacement has been repeatedly observed. The astragalus may pass directly forwards, or obliquely forwards and outwards, or forwards and inwards. M. Malgaigne mentions as many as twenty-six examples ; in seven of these the dis- location was directly forwards, in fifteen for- wiirds and outwards, and in four forwards and inwards. Of the twenty-six, nine were simple, and seventeen were compound dislocations. The degree of displacement varies somewhat ; the as- tragalus may bo thrown completely forwards from between the tibia and the calcancum, or its posterior portion may still be engaged between these bones, to a greater or less extent, Forced extension of the foot appears to be the most frequent cause of the dislocation of the astragalus forwards, and if the extension is combined with inversion or eversion of the foot, the dislocation takes an oblique direc- tion outwards or inwards. Extension of the foot, it will be observed, is the common cause, of the dislocation of the tibia forwards at the ancle-joint, of the sub-astragaloid dislocation forvifards, and of the double dislocation now under consideration; but there is, no doubt, some difference in the degree, and in the mode of operation of the dislocating force, not easily to be explained or appreciated, which determines the nature of the displacement in each case. A case of complete simple dislocation forwards, under the care of Mr. Gaskell, in the Manchester Infirmary, is mentioned in Mr.Turner's essaj'. The accident occurred in a middle aged man, in conse- quence of a fall from a considerable height. The astragalus was dislocated forwards, and laj' imder the integmnents and tendons of the foot. The dislocation was apparently perfect, many of the projecting points and surfaces of the astragalus being perceptible through the skin. The bone was reduced after persevering for some time in drawing down and flexing the foot, and also in making pressure upon the astragalus. It passed into its place suddenly, and with an audible snap ; the patient in three weeks was able to walk, and ultimately recovered the perfect use of his limb. {Turner, Transact, of the Prov. Med. and Surg, Association, 1843, p. 403.) It was in a case of this nature that Desault, failing to obtain reduc- tion by other means, divided the skin, and en- larged the opening in the capsular ligament of the head of the astragalus, after which he was able to return the bone into its place. Suppuration, necrosis, and the separation of several fragments of the bone took place, and the patient did not recover for eighteen months. The double dislocation of the astragalus forwards would be distinguished from a sub-astragaloid dislocation in the same direction by the trochlear surface of the astragalus being felt under the skin, or if the swelling pre- vented this point being clearly made out, by observing that the distance between the tibia and the tendo Achillis is not increased. A case of complete simple dislocation ybrii'arrfs and ouiivards is recorded by Desault, and another by Dupuytren. Two others are related by Mr. Guthrie. The bones of the leg were entire in the two first cases, but in the two latter the fibula was fractured. When the displacement takes this direction, the head of the astragalus is directed towards the outer border of the foot, and rests upon the cuboid and external cuneiform bones. The foot is adducted, and the solo is directed inwards ; the point of the foot also is turned in- wards and the heel outwards ; the inner border of the foot is shortened by the approximation of the scaphoid bone to the calcaneum. In Deeault's and Dupuytren's cases the reduc- tion was accomplished. Those related by Mr. Guthrie were not seen by him till some time after the accident, they therefore remained unre- duced, but the lameness was greatly relieved by an apparatus for supporting the foot, which Mr. Guthrie devised for the piirpose. (See Hancock, Lancet, Oct. 12th, 1844, p. 71.) When the astragalus is dislocated obliquely funvards and inwards, the sole of the foot is p p 3