572 DISLOCATION to the extremities of the tibia and the fibula, or os calcis, have their natural direction and disposition so altered, that, instead of performing their ap- pointed actions, they all contribute to the distortion of the foot, and that by turning it outward and upward." When this accident is accompanied, as it some times is, with a wound of the integuments of the inner ancle, and that made by the protrusion of the bones, the danger and difficulties of the case are seriously increased. According to Sir A Cooper," the tibia has its in- ternal malleolus thrown inwards, which so forcibly projects against the integuments as to threaten their bursting. The foot is thi-own outwards, and its inner edge rests upon the ground. It rotates easily on its axis. There is a considerable depression above the outer ancle, much pain in the part, and considerable swelling ; the foot can easily be moved laterally, and crepitus can be generally de- tected about three inches above the lower extremity of the fibula." " Upon dissection, the internal appearances are as follow :—The end of the tibia rests upon the inner side of the astragalus, and if the accident has been caused by a jump from a considerable height, the lower end of the tibia, where it is connected to the fibula by ligament, is frequently split off and remains connected with the fibula, which is also broken from two to three inches above the joint; and the broken end of the fibula is carried down upon the astragalus, occupying the natural situation of the tibia. The malleolus externus of the fibula remains in its natural situation, with two inches of the fibula and the split portion of the tibia; the ligamentous fibres attached to the fibula at the mal leolus externus, and the three strong external late ral ligaments remain uninjured.'' {On Dislocations, p. 175, ed. 10.) [In the majority of cases the dislocation is in complete, the tibia still remains partially in con- tact with the astragalus, and the skin is unbroken. But sometimes the tibia is thrown so far inwards as to be completely separated from the astragalus, and when this is the case, the dislocation is usually compound; the strain upon the integument being so great that it gives way on the inner side, and the lower end of the tibia escapes through the lacera- tion. Mr. Pott's description refers to the incom- plete dislocation, and so also, it would appear, does Sir A. Cooper's account of the symptoms of the acci- dent. The description, however, of the appearances on dissection which has been quoted from the latter author, refers to a complete dislocation, and im- plies so great a derangement of the parts, that it would seldom happen without laceration of the integument and protrusion of the tibia. The dislocation of the tibia inwards, or of the foot outwards, may result from direct or indirect violence, but the latter is by far the more frequent cause. If from direct violence, the external force is commonly a blow or the fall of a heavy weight against the outer side of the leg towards its lower part, which first fractures the fibula and then forces the tibia inwards. Some- times the external force is expended in producing the fracture of the fibula, and the dislocation is caused subsequently by the patient bearing his weight on the limb after it has lost the support of the fibula. The dislocation from indirect violence ia most frequently produced by a twisting outwards (abduc- tion) of the foot, as when in jumping from a height the inner edge of the foot comes to the ground "or by abduction combined with rotation of the point ot the foot outwards, as when the foot is suddenly checked in its motion whilst a person is running with the toes turned outwards. Either of these movements may fracture the fibula two or three inches above the malleolus, and the weight of the body, then resting upon the inner side of the ancle, causes laceration of the internal lateral ligament and dislocation inwards of the tibia. This ex- planation is somewhat different from that given by Dupuytren, who believed that the internal lateral ligament first gave way, and that the fibula was subsequently fractured ; the frequent occur- rence, however, of fracture of the fibula without any displacement of the ancle, or with only a very slight rotation of the foot outwards, seems rather to indicate that the fracture is first in the order of time,—and this is in accordance with Mr. Pott's description of the mechanism of the accident. Dupuytren believed that this dislocation might also be caused by inversion (adduction) of the foot, and several of his observations seem to show that this is the case. It is difficult to understand, how- ever, how inversion or adduction of the foot can cause the tibia to become prominent internally, although it may undoubtedly produce the fracture of the fibula. (See Fractures.) "How comes it, then," says M. Malgaigne, " that in Dupuytren's observations, fractures of the fibula by adduction are so often complicated with the displacement {eversion) of the foot. The facts answer for themselves: it is, that all the patients having had the fibula broken by a movement of adduction, have attempted to walk, and that then the foot was turned outwards and the abduction produced the dislocation." (Traite des Trad, t. i. 812.) Sometimes, unfortunately, the observations of this great authority, Dupuytren, are so inconsistent with each other as to be almost unintelligible. Thus, for instance, in two cases, in which the position of the foot and leg are precisely the same, he describes one as a dislocation of the foot inwards, and the other as a dislocation of the foot outwards, because the one was caused by inversion and the other by eversion. (Dupuytren, On Dis. and InJ. of tlie Bones, Sydenham Society's transla- tion, pp. 257, 259, cases vi. and vii.) The degree of eversion met with varies in dif- ferent cases. Boyer ,-ind others have described the articular surface of the astragalus as directed com- pletely inwards, the outer edge of the foot raised and approximated to the malleolus externus. So great an eversion as this, however, must be very rare. M. Malgaigne has always noticed a rotation of the point of the foot outwards, in addition to the abduction; and he has given a representation of one case in which there was this rotation only, without abduction. PI. xxx., fig. 1. M. Huguier has recorded one case in which the dislocation was produced by a rotation of this kind, without abduction, and in this case the foot rested upon the bed by the whole of its external border, and the toes were pointed directly outwards, but there was no abduction. {Mitn stir les lux, dti pied, Union Med. 1848.) Tiie dislocation, it has been aheady stated, is most frequently incomplete, that is, the articular