1030 IIYDRi by endosmose, pressure, or any other process. Thus the tissues acquire the power of fixing more water than they ought to contain. The organic colls become distended by imbibition, rupture readily ensues, and the diluted contents escape, leading to dropsical or aqueous effusions ; the young and thin-walled cells being more easily ruptured than those with older and thicker membranes, which are capable of bearing greater distension. The constituent particles of the fibrils and the inter- stices become surrounded with aqueous fluid, lead- ing to pallor, relaxation of the contractile fibre, diminished elasticity and plasticity, increase of bulk, diminished nutritive power, and diminished power of sustaining animal heat, in variable degrees in different structures. A stasis of aqueous fluid in the tissues, even to the constituent cells and connective tissue, must be the result. We see the effects of hj'dreemia very remarkably exhibited in the mucous membranes, in their flabbiness and pallor; in relaxation of the uvula, trachea, larynx, and bronchial tubes; in fungoid-like tonsils; and in a tendency to profluvia in both sexes. It is ex- hibited in the flabbiness of the muscles, and in incapacity for continued active exertion. We see it also in the dyspepsia and hypochondriacism of vast numbers of people. The relaxation and de- bility of the intestinal tunics, and the extreme dilution of the digestive principles, account for this latter effect. A permanent state of hydrffimia is attended with feeble action of the heart and general debility. The urine may be normal in quantity, but it is of low specific gravity, often about 1010, pale, containing but a small quantity of urea, uric acid, and fixed salts, and depositing no sediment. It sometimes contains albumen, probably owing to stasis in the kidneys, and when the action of these organs is diminished, and the urine becomes con- centrated, the amount of solid constituents is relatively but not absolutely increased. There is a correspondence between the diminished density of the blood and the porosity of the vessels, these being easily distended. If the mean proportion of water in the blood be taken at 780 in 1000, and that of the aorta, for instance, at 656, an habitual large increase of water in the blood must increase the watery element of the artery, and thereby directly weaken its structure, and diminish its elasticity; and the same with the capillary vessels. The low specific gravity of the blood is favourable to exosmosis, and accumulation of fluid is easily produced in the areolar tissue, and in the serous cavities. Water, also, readily transudes through the parietes of the vessels in dependent parts, and especially in tissues affected with hyperasmia, pro- ducing oedema. The transudation may be either water pure, or with variable quantities of albumen, salts, or even fibrine. Even the more solid struc- tures, as the membranes, the muscles, the nervous masses, and the medullary substance of the bones are liable to become infiltrated. Inflammatory products are characterised by their poverty in plastic materials, and by their serous character, and a common form of softening of the tissues is pro- moted by this pathological condition. The effect of hydrfemia, in an extreme degree, may be interpreted by the following circumstances. -When a large quantity of water is injected into •the vessels of an animal, so as to dilute the blood 'suddenly to a considerable degree, biliary pigment first appears in the urine, and afterwards, albumen and heematin are discharged simultaneously. These substances are derived from the red corpuscles and about twelve hours after the experiment, theuiino resumes its normal colour. (Herrman, On the Tnjiuence of Dilution of tU Blood on the Secretion of 'i7ief Virchow's Arc/iiv, vol, xvii.) In oxen after largo draughts of water, the blood some'times becomes so dilute that the corpuscles burst, and their coloured contents have been discharged'from the body. An extremely watery condition of the blood may also produce, in the same way, petechia, deposits of pigment, ecchymoses, and bloody secre- tions and excretions. It has been suggested that sudden death, after copious draughts of cold water, in a state of fatigue and exhaustion, may have resulted from sudden distension and rupture of the red corpuscles of the blood by the aqueous fluid. A true hydrsemic plethora is "a frequent cause of sudden attacks of haemoptysis, haemorrhoids, and other haemorrhages, or sudden effusions produciuf apoplexy, paralysis, coma, or convulsions. It may become mortal, by its general effects, from deficient nutritive matter in the blood, or by oedema of the glottis or lungs, or any of the local diseases already referred to. Treatment.—The treatment of hj'drasmia merges in a large proportion of cases, into that of the various diseases of which it is a secondary complication. (See Anemia; H^emorrhagic Diathesis; LEUCOCYTH.EMIA; Span^emia; Tox- HiEMiA, &c.) Nevertheless, the appropriate re- medies for this morbid state of the blood, re- garded especially us a proclivity to, or actual element of diseases which occur in surgical prac- tice, and often complicate injuries and operations, require to be stated. The subject involves also, at least one or two considerations of very great practical importance. The general treatment of hydraemia, regarded as a predisposition to disease, or in its slighter forms, is in some respects analo- gous to that of anaemia, but in others it differs very widely. A nutritive diet, laborious exercise, so as to excite perspiration, or some substitute for it when that cannot be taken, a warm, drj' atmo- sphere, and friction or shampooing, are among the chief remedies. The indication is to excite a more perfect aqueous circulation throughout the tissues of the economy, by increasing the action of the heart and blood-vessels, promoting the action of the skin, increasing the expenditure of water by the blood, and thereby augmenting assimilation and depuration, both in the blood and in the tissues. Bleeding is not to be proscribed absolutelj' as in anaemia. Where hydra2mia depends on visceral diseases, starving the blood of its morphological elements, or destroying them, or upon anj' of the causes of direct debility, bleeding is not to be thought of; but in many cases of hydrsemic ple- thora this measure, sinmltaneously with generous diet, has the best effect, A great increase of water in the urine is sometimes found as a sign of improvement in a diluted stiite of the blood ; and many salts, which act as diuretics, not onlj' relieve the hydrasmia, but promote the absorption of drop- sical fluids, and relieve cedema in the solids, mora or less dependent on the morbid state of the blood. Such remedies often increase the vital changes in all the solid tissues; thus, chloride of sodium in a large proportion of water, is absorbed rapidly, and again secreted rapidly by the kidneys with