484 CORNEA, in the first instance to a disturbed, altered, and | its usual convex surface is eradu-ilW r.i.^rT fr.n, arrested function of some iiUDortant orrran in tl,„ pi..,„„f„,.„.,„„ gradually laised from arrested function of some important organ in a feeble and strumous diathesis, aggravated by an active depleting plan of treatment, or by the inju- dicious and protracted use of strong local stimuli, particularly the nitrate of silver. As for the local treatment, stimuli of all kinds are injurious; soothing applications are the best; sometimes one or two leeches, applied about every other day for a week or two, are of use, particularly when the vessels are rather numerous and full, and the inflammation is in a subacute stage ; but that which appears to be of the most marked and essen- tial service in this form of disease are issues and setons inserted in the temple, and kept there for many months. I have succeeded in completely and permanently curing several cases of this kind by the prolonged use of issues when they had baffled all other means for many months and even years, and when the constant irritation and necessary con- finement were casting a gloom upon what would otherwise be the brightest period of life. When the cicatrizing process is going onfavour- ablj', the only practical point we have to consider has reference to the opacity remaining in the cornea. Mr. Dixon (Diseases of the Eye, p. 86, 1855), re- marks : " Opacities of the cornea have received different names, according to their density. Those having a \vhitish, cloudy appearance are called nebulae, while the perfectly opaque white patches are distinguished by the terms albugo and leucoma. A forced distinction has sometimes been drawn be- tween the two latter terms, but their etymology shows them to be perfectly synonymous {Xevic6s — albus.) Cloudy opacities, diffused throughout the greater part of tlie cornea, result from long con- tinued inflammation of its tissue; those which are confined to certain portions of the cornea, the rest remaining clear, are the effect of superficial ulcers. The perfectly opaque chalky white patches over- spreading a large part, perhaps nearly the whole of the cornea, are the cicatrices succeeding to ex- tensive suppuration, and breaking down of its •fibres. Penetrating ulcers produce cicatrices al- most as white and opaque as those following sup- puration ; but the former are of smaller size, and they have almost always a portion of iris adherent to their posterior surface. Caustic lime, when it doesnotproduce actual sloughing of the whole cornea and subsequent staphyloma, renders the part opaque, but the opacity has not that chalky ap- pearance which follows loss of corneal substance and the formation of a cicatrix: it rather resembles what one sees in the dead subject when decompo- sition is just commencing." Much confidence is expressed by some in tlie action of various local stimuli in promoting the ab- sorption of such opacities; thus, solutions of the nitrate of silver, of zinc, of iodide of potassium, calo- mel, and various other stimuli, are each of them in higii favour with different observers. It is extremely difficult to estimate the value, either pos- sitivc or relative, of these means, when we know the natural tendency is towards a gradual absorb- ent action. If anything, we generally use a solu- tion of the iodide of potassium—five grains to an ounce of distilled water, dropped in three times a "'O'- It does not cause pain, and its action is gently stimulating and absorbent. Conical cornea {keratocoims) is an alteration in the form of the cornea, which, instead of presenting . ) tjiuuuiiiiv the circumference towards a central elevation, more or less promment, so as to present a complete cone, ihe appearance is peculiar and characteristic, and can always be recognised when it has been once seen; the apex glistens and the eye looks as if a piece of solid glass had been stuck on to the centre •of the cornea; in fact, it was thought formerly to consist of a solid thickening of this body. In the latter stages tlie extreme apex sometimes becomes opaque, probably on account of the friction and ir- ritation of the lids; it occurs usually soon after puberty, and most commonly in females; it gene- rally attacks both eyes, but not simultaneously nor to an equal extent, and one remains permanently more seriously damaged than tlie other. This change occurs very slowly, occupying many months and even years, and having attained a certain point, usually remains stationary; there is no pain or other evidence of inflammatory action. The cause of this change is very obscure; it is generally ob- served in feeble, ill-nourished persons ; and is pro- bably due to some partial arrest of nutrition, giving rise to a gradual thinning of the cornea towards its centre. Such, in fact, was found to be the condi- tion of the part, in a case examined by Professor Jaeger of Vienna, after death; and it seems highly probable that this is the usual condition of the part in this disease. {Jaeger, Zeitsehrift. f. Oplitltalm. 1 Bd. S. 544 ; and Wcdker, Principles of Ophih. Surgery, London, 1834, p. 80.) The important practical point is the serious damage to the sight occasioned by this change; the rays of light are so very much refracted, that images are very imper- fectly formed upon the retina, and objects are only seen when held very close to the eye, and when they are of some considerable size. Where the apex of the cornea has become opaque, even this very short and imperfect vision is lost. As regards treatment, we certainly possess no means, either local or constitutional, that can re- . store to the part its normal shape; the utmost we can hope for, is to arrest the morbid change at the stage at which it first conies before our notice, and even this, it must be admitted, is very doubtful. The best plan seems to be to use some mild local astringent coUyriura, and by the exhibition of tonics to U-y to check the progress of the disease. Another important consideration is to endeavour, bj' some mechanical means, to obviate or diminish the extreme refi'action of the rays of light; various plans have been suggested for this purpose ; thus, it has been proposed to remove the lens, and also to employ an extremely concave glass, both these means having the tendency to counteract the effect of the extreme convexity of the cornea. Jlr. Tyr- rell proposed to draw the pupil towards the margin of the cornea, where the convexity of the cor- nea is not extreme ; and he states, that he has done this with very marked benefit in some cases. The same treatment has with satisfactory result been employed in several cases by Jlessrs. Bowman and Critcliett. Again, it has been pro- posed to shut off all rays, except those passing through the apex of the cornea by means of a small aperture througli a thin, dark substance, or, what is better, by means of a horizontal slit through some dark medium. This last method has in several cases been found of great service, enabling the pa- tient to sec both near and distant objects with great precision, and even to read with ease. This is,