GLUCOH^MIA, bath, sea-bath, bark and Bteel medicines may be given. With regard to local applications, the astrin- gents commonly used are lotions of sulphate of zinc, alum, or acetate of lead. Stimulating applications consist either of injec- tions, or bougies. Violent exercise may be consi- dered as having the same effect. Such applications should never be used till the other methods have been fully tried and found unsuccessful. They at first increase the discharge, and, on this account, are sometimes abandoned too early. Two grains of the bichloride of mercury, dissolved in eight ounces of distilled water, make a very good stimulating injection. In irritable habits such an application may do great harm, and therefore, if possible, the capability of the parts to bear its employment should first be made out. Bougies sometimes act violently, but Mr. Hunter thought them more efficacious than in- jections. A simple unmedicated one is generally sufficient, and must be used a month or six weeks before the cure can be depended upon. Bougies, medicated with camphor or turpentine, were for- merly employed for the cure of gleet; they did not require so long a trial as common bougies : at present, I believe, they are not used by any sur- geon of eminence. Whatever bougies are em- ployed should be under a common size. Mr. Hunter knew a gleet disappear on the breaking out of two chancres on the glans. Gleets have also been cured by a blister on the under side of the urethra, and by electricity. In every plan of treatment, rest or quietness is generally of great consequence ; but, after the failure of the usual modes, riding on horseback will sometimes immediately effect a cure. Regularity and moderation in diet are to be observed. Intercourse with women often causes a return or increase of gleet ; and in such cases it gives suspicion of a fresh infection ; but the difference between this, and a fresh infection is, that here the return is almost immediately after the con- nexion. Gleets in women are cured nearly in the same manner as those of men. Turpentines and balsams, however, have no specific effect on the vagina ; and the astringent and stimulating injections used should be stronger than those intended for male patients. [The mucous membrane of the urethra, like that of other parts of the body, in certain individuals, is very susceptible of irritation and readily secretes a larger quantity of mucus than usual on the slightest additional irritation ; pus globules also are frequently added, so as to produce a muco- purulent secretion. Many gleets depend upon this constitutional peculiarity, and hence the diffi- culty experienced in their successful treatment. The surgeon, therefore, must not fail to combine constitutional remedies with his local treatment, and these will vary in each individual case accord- ing to the state of the system and of the dis- turbance of the general health. When the gleet is kept up by some diseased of the urethra itself, or of 'the state , — — VI Kii tiic prostate gland, independent of any peculiarity of consti- tution, the case is more easy of cure. The •ippiopnatc remedies for stricture, for prostatic "iseases, lo,- enlarged lacunte, for valvular folds, for preternatural sensibility of particular portions of the urethra, must be had recourse to. The instruments used by French surgeons for exploring the urethra — the bougie a boule, the bougie a wfEwd—may be of great service in de- tecting the existence and the locality of enlarged lacunae, of valvular folds, or of increased sensi- bility. Nelaton recommends valvular folds to be de- stroyed by a bougie used with force, or by a cutting instrument introduced .nrough a canula: for the increased sensibility of portions of the urethra he advises injections by means of a catheter having an orifice at its extremity, and passed down to the sensitive point so as to insure the application of the injection to the diseased surface. {Elem. de Pa- tJiologie Chir. vol. v. p. 367, 368.)] GLOSSOCATOCHUS (from y\S>a<Ta, the tongue, and icarixu, to depress). The ancient glossocatochus was a sort of forceps, one of the blades of which served to depress the tongue, while the other was applied under the chin. [GLUCOHjEMIA or Glycoh:emia (from yXvKv^ and ai>a). SaccJiari/ie blood (Dr. H. Bennett, Clin. Lee. 1858). Melitcemia (Simon). Glycosuria. Diabetes. A disease in which the blood contains an excess of sugar, which perco- lates through the kidneys in solution with the urine. According to the recent researches of M. Claude Bernard, during health, a glucogenic sub- stance analogous to. hydrated starch is formed in the liver, and converted either by a ferment in the blood or by catalysis into grape sugar, to be de- composed in the pidmonary or systemic capil- laries by the oxygen of the air; the transpositions being through dextrine to sugar, lactic acid, and finally to carbonic acid gas and water. A large quantity of organic matter is probably thus trans- posed very rapidly in the blood, the fomiation of the glucogenic substance being in some measure in- dependent of the nature of the food. Glucogen is often derived, chiefly, if not altogether, from albuminous materials conveyed by the portal vein to the liver. In health, a few hours after meals a minute portion of sugar developed from this substance may sometimes be detected in the arterial or venous blood, but it does not occur in sufficient quantity to render the urine saccharine. Although it has been shown experimentally that sugar in a dilute form introduced into the blood becomes decomposed and does not reappear in the urine, a temporary saccharine tendency of the blood, and a symptomatic diabetes, frequently occur. Neither the quantitj^ nor the density of the urine in such cases is materially altered, but the morbid blood has the effect of an irritant, modifying the nutrition of parts, and producing scaly diseases of the skin, boils, carbuncles, or abscesses, which have sometiuics been observed to precede or accompany confirmed diabetes. {Proiit.) Or the sugar may be determined to other organs, as to the salivary glands, or the mucous nieni- btane of the stomach or intestines. Sugar is also found in the urine of women during pregnancy, while nursing, and in childbed, having a direct association with the secretion of milk. (D''. H. Blot; Dublin Hospital Gax. from BuUci.Gen.de Therapeutique.) It occurs also in vaiious dis- eases of the brain and spinal cord, particularly such as arc attended with convulsive movements ; in dyspeptic and gouty individuals {ProiU); in