180 ANEURISM. squeezed out of it, but returned rapidly when the pressure was removed." (P. 33.) In the dis- section it deserves notice, that the carotid ivas found completely pervious, and tliat no cicatrix, nor other appearance, enabled Mr. Bennett to as- certain the precise point to which the ligature hai been applied. {P. 35.) These circumstances might raise a doubt about the arterj' having been tied at all; but, supposing the ligature to have been duly applied, they prove to my mind the failure of the operation, inasmuch as the tumor and carotid artery were probably iu almost the same state as if nothing had been attempted. The blood passed freely through them, and was not compelled to circulate through new channels. Without wishing however, to enter into the question whether the artery were tied or not, I shall dismiss this example with two plain inferences : first, that, if the artery were tied, the operation failed to bring about the desired obliteration of the vessel, and coagulation of the blood in the swelling ; secondly, that if it were not tied, what was done is neither favourable, nor unfavourable, to the practice of which we are now considering the merits. A third example of the operation is reported in vol. xii. of the Lancet The carotid was tied above the aneurism by Mr. Lambert, March 1st, 1827, in the presence of Mr. Wardrop, Mr. B. Cooper, and Mr. Calloway On the third day the tumor seemed much con- solidated and reduced in size. On the tenth day, there was some bleeding from the wound ; but it was suppressed by the application of a compress wet with cold water ; and in a few days the swelling had entirely disappeared, and all that could be felt of it, on pressing the finger deeply down, was a small hard tumor, having a very faint undulatory thrill. Unfortunately, this pa- tient, also a female, fell a victim to hemorrhage on the 1st of May, in consequence of ulceration extending from the cicatrix through the platisma myoides to the artery. Without detailing other appearances noticed in dissection, suffice it to mention, that "at the root of the right common carotid artery was a consolidated tumor, of a pyramidal shape. A probe could not be passed upwards from the arteria innominata, and water forcibly injected at this part would not pass, so completely and eflfectually closed was the lower part of the carotid artery. On making a longitu- dinal section of the tumor, we observed at Us lower part a firm coagulum of blood, of about the size of a French olive. It accurately closed the opening at the base of the carotid, and it was this which afforded the resistance to the probe and injection of water passing upward from the arteria innominata. The coats of the artery surrounding the coagulum were thickened to about four times their natural size, and lined by a thin layer of fibrine. Above the coagulum, the coats of the artery were thickened to the extent of at least six times their natural size, and, in addition to a layer of fibrinc closely adherent to the inner surface of the artery, and continuous with that surrounding the coagulum at the lower part of the tumor, there were three other layers of coagulated lymph. At the upper part of the thickened portion of the artery, and just above the omo-hyoideus, where the ligature had been applied, was an ulcerated opi-ning on the anterior and tracheal surface of the carotid urUn-y, a quarter of an inch lu length, and rather less in breadth, covered by a coagulum of dark-coloured lyinph, communicating with the opening in the integuments." This case, accord- ing to my judgment, must be received as another proof that Brasdor's method is capable of pro- ducing those changes in the tumor, artery, and circulation, which, if not succeeded by some ac- cidental untoward occurrence, like the ulceration, leading in this case to fatal hemorrhage, may bring about the perfect cure of the disease. If any doubt remained of this fact after the cases already cited, it would be dispelled by the re- sults of some other trials of the practice, and more particularly by the history of the case of Mary Covis, aged thirty-six, on whom Dr. Bush ope- rated, under very trying and difficult circumstances, with complete success. {Lancet, vol. i. 1828.) The tumor extended from the clavicle, on the right side, upwards nearly to the os-hyoides, pressing the trachea towards the opposite side, and passing under the stemo-mastoid muscle, to nearly an inch beyond its outer border. For nine days previously to the operation, the patient had not been able to swallow anything ; her respiration was alarmingly obstructed, and her voice nearly lost. In the operation, the artery immediately above the aneu- rism was found dilated, not more than half an inch of its extremity being sound, and on this a single silk ligature was placed. As soon as the artery was tied, the tumor became softer and less pro- minent ; and though she had not swallowed any thing for nine days, she took, before the wound was dressed, about ten ounces of wine and water. The operation was performed September 11th, 1827. April 19th, 1828, the woman was iu per- fect healtli. There was then scarcely a remnant of the tumor ; the inordinate action of the heart had ceased ; and respiration and deglutition were natural. The facts recorded seem to Mr. War- drop to prove, that the future growth of an aneu- rismal tumor may be arrested, and the disease cured, by placing a ligature on the distal side of the sac, especially if no branch of the artery inter- vene between the sac and the ligature ; for, if a considerable branch, and one that afterwards en- larged sufficientl)', were to be in this situation, the operation would have little or no effect in pro- ducing any diminution of the impetus of the blood in the aneurism, from the cavity of which the blood would pass as freely into the enlarged branch, as it previously did along the trunk itself. Hence we see why Brasdor's operation will pro- bably be attended with greater success on carotid than other aneurisms, the common carotid artery giving off in its course no branches which would interfere with the principles of the practice. Of five operations of this description, which had been performed on the carotid artery at the period when M. Lisfranc published on aneurism, three were completely successful; and of the other two, one performed by Mr. Wardrop in December, 182G, and the other by Mn MoiUgoniery, at the Mav^ ritius, in 1829, the particulars eave doubts ^he- ther in one instance, the carotid artery had been tied, and whether the case ^vas a carotid aneurism; and whether, in the other, the disease had not bin Ii' aneurism of the arch of the aorta (See De VOUitaation des A,ihes, p. 100, 150 , and Duimytren, Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 593.) Mr. ^^^ardrop himself regards Brasdor s opera tion as not merely applicable t^/^^^^ mr'the which it is impracticable to place a ligature on the