GUNSHOT WOUNDS, The following returns of gunshot wounds of the pennaeum and genito-urinary organs without frac- ture of the pelvis or wound of the abdomen, from Sebastopo!, occurring in men and officers, shows a considerable mortality; but the fatal cases were the result of large contusions and lacerations of the pennseum, involving the urinary apparatus, and chiefly inflicted by shell.] Non-commissioned Officers and Privates. DIED. 'd & rt 3 -a o xa cd gim :als. T3 C o T3 OJ Otaltr the re 1 or pr hospit the sec hospi tal diei u alided a o H CO 5 > a Wounds of the peri- j najura and genito- ( S5 16 I 17 •23 15 urinary oigans. ,' Cummissioned Officers. 13 (a C cc ■a 01 ■a •5 ct m •g 2 V u •a > o H o ■H 5 a Wounds of the perinaeum and-i genito-urinary apparatus . .-' — I 0 1 3 Gunshot Injuries op the Heart and Large Blood-vessels. [Wounds of the heart are almost always in- stantly fatal. Some rare instances, however, are recorded where recovery has followed even after severe lesions of this organ. The muscular struc- ture has been perforated, and musket-balls have lodged in its substance, and cicatrices have been discovered after death in persons known to have been wounded in its vicinity, which indisputably show that very considerable lesions of this structure are not necessarily fatal. The diagnosis of these injuries is difficult, and most generally little more than conjectural, but through the instrumentality of the stethoscope simie light may be thrown on the nature of the injury. The symptoms of gunshot wounds of the heart are described to be fainting, palpitation, irregular movement, or total cessation of its action, coldness of the extremities, ghastliness of countenance, suc- ceeded by great anxiety or sense of anguish, inter- mission or cessation of the pulse. Should the patient survive, and reaction come on, the pulse increases in frequency and force of beat ; the anxiety is in- creased by pain of the part, which is sometimes in- tolerable. {Guthrie, Commentaries, eA. G, p. 510.) M. Foumier mentions (Cas Rares, Dictionnaire des Sciences Mcdiccdes) the case of a soldier who had a ball lodged in the right ventricle near its apex, and who survived six years, dying at the end of that period of another disease. For the first three years after the receipt of the wound he was harassed with palpitation. Chastenet, a French army surgeon, relates the case of a soldier, the right ventricle of whose heart had been pene- trated by 8 bayonet, and who died at tho expi- ration of fifteen days, from mortification of the lower extremities, apparently the resuUof cold and languid circulation. At the post mortem exami- nation the lung, pericardium, and heart were dis- covered to be wounded, but there was no sign of effusion into the surrounding parts. In the 14ih volume of the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, another case is related where the right ventricle was perforated to the extent of an inch in length near the origin of the pulmonary artery • the baU was found in the pericardium ; the tri- cuspid valve had a circular lacerated opening in it. The recipient of this injury was a soldier who had been wounded in Spain, and died at Plymoutli the fourteenth day after the injury. These are some of the extraordinary examples 'of wound of this organ which have been recorded; they are extreme instances of what nature can bear, and we must not suppose that such favourable results are often likely to occur. Dilatation of the heart is said sometimes to be produced by blows on the back or sternum, and death may occur from the shock of a blow over the region of this organ. Treatment. — If the injury is the result of a musket-ball, the wound must not be closed, although pressure may be made upon it for a time with a view to the suppression of the ex- ternal flow of blood; although this succeeds, it is more than probable the hEemorrhage will continue internally, and lead to the death of the patient after much suffering, principally from the oppression caused by the escape of blood into the cavity of the chest. If the wound be a stab, the external opening may be accurately closed and the escape of blood prevented ; but as the pressure of the blood in the pericardium is unequal to restrain the action of the heart, blood forced out through the opening fills the cavity of the pleura, and produces suffocation,unless from some accidental circumstance the aperture in the heart becomes obstructed, and the flow of blood thereby arrested. There can be no doubt of the propriety of closing the wound in the first instance, if the haniorihage be excessive and likely to endanger life ; and the wound must be reopened after a time if the danger of suffocation be imminent. (Guthrie's Commentaries, 6th ed. fol. 511-12.) This was the practice pursued by Dupuytren with the Due de Berri, the right ven- tricle of whose heart was wounded, and who died from loss of blood : it was found requisite to reopen the wound every two hours to prevent suffocation. All extraneous matters should be removed from the wound where possible, and inflammatory sym- ptoms subdued by general and local bloodletting, calomel and opium, and antimony. Auscultation and percussion are to be employed, and if the cavity of the pleura or pericardium should be found filled with blood or other fluid, it must be evacuated in order to give the patient the chance of life. Gunshot wounds of the large arteries are very generally followed by speedy if not instant death ; rare exceptions, however, occur. Tlie most remarkable instance perlmp' of recovery after such injury is that recited by Guattani in his work On Aneurism, where a pa- tient survived a wound of the aorta for eight years. Wounds of these large vessels pour out the blood so rapidly, especially the large arteries in the ca- vities of the body, that there is scarcely a chance of life, the victims of such injuries dying on