ANEURISM. Florence flask-like cyst, the bulbous end of which vertebral substance projected at the root of the neck from behind the Bternuni, and so nearly resembled aneurism of the root of the carotid artery, that the practitioner who consulted Sir A. Cooper actually mistook the dis- ease for carotid aneurism." (Alhm Burns, op. cit. p. 41.) The preceding statement has received full con- firmation from the observations of an intelligent writer. " I have seen (says Mr. Hodgson) seve- ral cases of aneurism arising from the superior part of the arch of the aorta, which protruded above the sternum and clavicles ; and, in one instance, the space between the tumor and the sternum was so considerable, that it was proposed to tie the carotid artery for an aneurism, which dissection proved to arise from the origin of the nrteria inno- minata, and from the arch of the aorta." {On tU Bis. of Aviaries and Veins, p. 90.) As I have already noticed, aneurisms of the •■ aorta are most frequent at its curvature; but they . are also met with on the other portion of this ves- sel in the thorax, and likewise on that part of it which is below the diaphragm. In subjects pre- ■ disposed to aneurisms, such swellings are fre- quently seen affecting various parts of the aorta at the same time. When the disease occurs in the abdominal aorta, a preternatural pulsation generally becomes percep tible at some particular point. The pressure of the tumor disturbs the functions of the viscera. The functional derangements, however, produced by aneurisms of the abdominal aorta, are generally much Jess urgent than those arising from aneurism in the thorax. The abdominal viscera bear com- pression without evil consequences much better than the thoracic ones ; and the tumor, instead of being pent up in a rigid bony case like the chest, are not prevented from expanding freely, in almost every direction, because the intestines and the ab- dominal parietes readily yield in the requisite degree. As Dr. Hope observes, here the pres- sure of the tumor on any particular organ is in a great measure obviated'by the want of counter- pressure. " Ventral aneurism, however, some- times deranges the respiration by preventing the due descent of the diaphragm ; an effect whicii may proceed either from the magnitude alone of the tumor, or what is much more common, from Its being seated near or in the substance of the muscle, and impeding its motions. Ventral aneurism is also occasionally characterised by involuntary evacuations of the urine and f.cccs, by remarkable alterniitions of constipation and diarrhtca, and by deep-seated excruciating pains, resembling those of lumbar abscess. These symp- toms arise from compression of the nerves, particu- larly the Iiypogastric plexus around the aorta." (See Ifop,:, in Cydop. of I'ract. Med. art. Aorta.) In the Museum of the University College are several valuable preparations, illustrative of aneu- rism of the abdominal aorta. No. CI,'J is an aneurism of this vessel, implicating the mesenteric and renal arteries. No. f;21 is an aneurism of the aorta at its bifurcation. No regular sac. Tumor extends down over the forepart of the sa- crum. Vena cava obliterated at the point wiiero it receives the two iliac veins. No. (;22 is an aortic aneurism, consisting of two large sacs at the sides of the lumbar vertebra;„tlio texture of whose bodies 18 moro or less destroyed, while the inter- 223 is entire. During life, the disease was not suspected. The patient suffered excruciating pain in the lower part of the belly. A few days before death a large tumor presented itself on the left side of the abdomen, with symp- toms of internal hemorrhage. In the post-morlem examination blood was found between the abdo- minal muscles and the peritoneum, and the viscera were covered with coagula. The tumor had burst in two places on the right side. The shape of the kidneys was altered by the pressiu-e of the tumor, which adhered to the spleen and pancreas. No. 625 is an aneurism of the aorta, where it passes between the crura of the diaphragm, and projects into both sides of the chest; while a portion of it, on the right side, descends into the abdomen. The bodies of the vertebrse partly ab- sorbed. Death fl-om effusion of blood into the chest. Valsalva's Treatment. Aneurisms within the thorax and abdomen, being entirely out of the reach of operative sur- gery, have been too commonly abandoned as un- avoidably fatal, and when any thing has been done in such cases, it has generally been only with a view to palliation. Moderating the force of the circulation by bleedings and low diet, avoiding every thing that has the least tendency to heat the body, or quicken the motion of the blood, keeping the bowels well open with laxative medicines, and lessening pain with opiates, have been the means usually employed. Of late years, also, digitalis, which has a peculiar power of diminishing the ac- tion of the sanguiferous system and impetus of the blood, has been commonly prescribed. In Ger- man)-, tlie superacetate of lead has been used for many years for the same purpose ; and Du- puytren, Laennec, and Bertin have employed it frequently with advantage in France. The dose, at first, should be half a grain, combined with the same quantity of opium, and given thrice a day. The dose IS gradually increased to a grain three or four times a day. Dr. Hope informs us, that he has always found any gastric irritation from it removed by a dose or two of castor oil, promptly adminis- tered, and mucilaginous diluents. (See Cyclon ofPracl. Med. art. Aorta.) That the diminution of the force of the circula- tion will prevent the increase of an aneurism, Mr. Hodgson considers illustrated by the following cu-cumstance: If two sacs exist in the course of the same nrtcry, the obstruction which is caused by the passage of blood into the upper, serves to re- move the force of circulation from the lower which becomes stationary, or its cavity is obliterated with coagulum. (0,i Diseases of A rteries, ^\-c. p. 1 ■! <) ) Mr. Crosse refers to a recent case, in which apop- l.tea aneurism was cured by another aneurismal swelling taking place in the thigh. The Latter wis afterwards cured by an ope.Uion. (See vj Med. ^arff. rnuis. vol. v.) It was the opinion of the celebrated Vnlsalvn "light do more than merely retard the death of nueunsnial patients. It was his belief that the method nnglit entirely cure such aneurisms as had not already made too much progress; and he put It nito practice with such rigour and perseverance hat the treatment became considered as iiarticu- larly Ins own. The plan alluded to is not de- scribed in his writings, but was publislicd in the