EXOPHTHALMIC, 645 T T 3 the latter instance ; and thougli, from tlie inferior vascularitj- and vital power of bones, we cannot expect surgery to have as much control over their affections, as over those of the soft parts, yet, every good will thus be obtained, which it is possible to acquire. Attention to such principles will at least teach us to refrain from making the death of part of a bone more extensive than it would be, if the cautery, caustics, and strong astringents were not employed. The best mode of attempting to prevent an exfoliation from occurring at all in a bone, that has been exposed by a wound, is, to cover the part again, as soon as possible, with tlie flesh, which has been detached from it. This, as I shall here- after notice, (see Head, Injuries of,) may gene- rally be practised with advantage, when the scalp has been detached from the cranium, provided the flap still retain even the most limited connection with the rest of the integuments. When the exposed bone cannot be covered, it should be dressed with the mildest and simplest applications, with plain lint, or lint spread with the unguentum cetacei. The dead pieces of bone, when very tedious in exfoliating, when wedged in the substance of the surrounding living bone, and when so situated as to admit of being safely sawn, or cut away, may sometimes be advantageously removed in this manner. (See Caries and Necrosis.) In such operations, bone nippers, elevators, or Hey's saws may be employed with great convenience ; and where these are not applicable, the saw invented by Machell, and described in Sir A. Cooper's Sur- gical Essays, or another devised by Graefe, and explained by Schwalb {Do Serra Orlioulari, 4to. Berol. 1819), deserve to be recollected. Tmon published three Memoirs on Exfoliation. The two first are inserted at paf!:es372 and403 Mem. de I'Acad. des S^ciences, 1758 ; the third at p. 223 of the same work, for ITPO. P. Poiasonier, An recenti vulnere nudatis ossibus exfohatis ? conclusio neffans, 4to. Parisii, 1760. Journ. de Mdd. par Le Roux, t. xxxi. p. 801; t. xxxii. p. 181 ; t. xxxiii. p. 16S;- t. xxxvi. p. 537 ; t. xxxviii. p. 153 ; t. xxxix. p. 132. Theden, Neue Bcmerkuup^eti, &c. kap. 3, 8vo. Berlin, 1782. Trans, for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, vol. ii. p. 277, &c. Wiedmann, " De Necrosi Ossium," Diet, des Sciences M6(l. art. E.xfo- liation. /. Thomsmi's Lectures on Inflammation, p. 394, 398. P. Boulai), sur I'Exfoliation des Os, 4to. Paris, 1S14. ./. Wilson, on the Structure and Pliy- .siolosy of the Skeleton, and on the Diseases of the Bones, &c. p. 230, &c. 8vo. Lend. 1820. ii. Liston's Essay on Carie.s, &c. in Edin. Med. Surg. Journ. 78. EXOMPHALOS onct>aXhs, the navel) navel. (from e'f, out of, and A hernia at or near the EXOPHTIIALMIA (from i^, out, and 0(p8a\/j.os, the eye). In cxophthalmia, opMhal- moptosis, ptosis hulbi ocitli, the eyeball is of its natural size, and free from disease : it merely changes its situation, and partly or completely protrudes from the orbit. It is only confusing the subject to consider, as specimens of this dis- ease, the cases in which the globe of the eye is affected with enlargement, and, on that account, projects from the orbit in a preternatual degree, as happens in hydrophtlialmia, staphyloma, and cancerous disease. When the globe is pushed entirely out of the orbit, it generally lies upon the temple or cheek, and vision is totally destroyed. There jire instances, however, in which a con- siderable degree of sight was recovered, notwith- standing the exophthalmia was complete, and had lasted several years. (Hojje, in Phil. Trans, for 1744. RicUer's Bibl. bd. 4, p. 343.) There are three descriptions of causes which may occasion exophthalmia: 1. The first and least common is a violent con- cussion of the head. A man fell from a height of about fifteen or sixteen feet, and pitched upon his head. The right eye was forced out of its socket, and hung over the cheek. The patient was deprived of his senses immediately after the accident, and affected with coma. There was a contusion over the right parietal bone ; but no fracture. The eye spontaneously resumed its natural position a short time after the accident, and, in the course of a month, with the assistance of low diet and repeated bleeding, the cure was completed. {Mem. de I'Acad. de Chirurgie, t. 1, p. 198, 4to.) It is alleged that the eye "has been forced out of the orbit in a violent fit of sneezing. But such cases must be very uncom- mon, and imply a considerable relaxation of those parts which serve to retain the eye in its socket, or some other predisposing causes, to which attention should be paid in the treatment. {RieUe.r, Anfangsgr. der Wtindarz. bd. iii. p. 407, ed. 1795.) 2. A far more frequent cause of exophthalmia is a thrust in the eye with an instrument, which is narrow enough to pass between the orbit and the eyeball, so as to push the latter out of its place. • A stick, a tobacco-pipe (Whiles Cases in Sitrgeiy,-p. 131), a foil, &c. may cause the acci- dent. Repeated experience proves, that, in such cases, though the optic nerve and muscles of the eye may be forcibly stretched, the interior parts of the organ seriously injured, and the dislocated eye generally deprived of the faculty of seeing, yet, when the organ is replaced as speedily as possible, it not only sometimes recovers its natural motion, but also its original power of vision. (See Scultct. Appendix, obs. 69. Covillard, obs. 27. Borellus, centur. 3 obs. 54. Rhodius, centur. 1 obs. 84. White's Cases, p. 131.) Previously to reducing the eye, we should examine the instrument which was pushed into the orbit; as, when it is brittle, a fragment of it may remain behind in the socket and require to be extracted by means of the finger or a probe. When the weapon is pointed or hard, it sometimes pierces the bones of the orbit and enters the brain, nose, or antrum. In the fij-st case, which is often difficult to ascertain im- mediately, though after a time, it is generally ren- dered plain enough by the symptoms induced, the consequences are mostly fatal. In the two other cases, altliough the danger is not pressing, the surgeon should be very attentive, in tho event of suppuration, to procure and maintain a ready out- let for the matter. There is generally little difficulty in replacinff tho eye. Frequently it returns of itself into its natural situation, as soon as any trivial obstacles to Its reduction are removed ; and in other in- stances. It easily admits of being put into its proper place with tho hand. Tho indication, says Kichter, is always accomplished with more facility the sooner it is attempted. When the protrusion has existed several days,and the eye and other parts in the orbit are already inllamed, Richtor recom- mends us to endeavour to diminish the inflam- mation by general antiphlogistic means, and