CANCER. mmation of the nature of a tumor, whether can- cerous or the reverse, it may be stated, that this instrument will in very many cases enable us confidently to affirm that a specimen is a cancer, but that its negative inlbrmation is much less trustworthy. If we find certain structural pecu- harities we may be sure tliat we are dealing with a cancer, or almost ; but the absence of these will not be sufficient warranty for us always to con- clude the reverse. Great multiformity in the cell substance of a tumor, the presence of a large pro- portion of the peculiar nuclei and cells described p. 377, the vesicular expansion of nuclei, and endogenous growth within parent cells would afiord almost infallible evidence of the cancerous character of a growth. Yet M. Velpeau adduces instances in which the best authorities in Paris found cancer cells in growths which clinicallj-, i. e. in their vital actions, showed no resemblance to cancer.. Moreover it must be allowed that in the great majority of cases where the information aftorded by the microscope is positive and clear, that obtained by the unaided eye is almost equally so. Again, from the absence of microscopic cha- racters of cancer, we cannot positively in all cases predicate the absence of cancerous quality any more than we can affirm that a tissue is not con- tractile because it does not correspond either to the striped or to the unstriped vai-iety of muscular fibre. In this, as in a multitude of other cases, we find that structure and endowment are not necessarily linked together. Fibrous cancers, osteoid, and some varieties of the medullary are instanced by Mr. Paget as presenting cancerous qualities without cancerous structure. M. Velpeau mentions a case where he removed a testis affected with encephaloid, as he considered, but in which M. Lebert found no cancer cells, and therefore disbelieved its malignant character. In a few months after the operation the patient died with enormous soft medullary masses filling the abdo men. In these, again, no cancer cells were found. Yet surely the disease was to all intents and pur- poses cancer. In a second case, "a lardaceous scirrhus of the worst kind " from a woman's breast, was pronounced by five of the leading French observers to contain no cancer cells. Yet in a short time the growth recurred in the cicatrix, and the patient " fell into the most complete cancerous cachexia." Dr. Bennett proposes that during an operation every suspected tissue should be ex- amined with a microscope at hand before the wound is closed, so that there might be some certainty that every particle of existing diseased structure is removed. This cannot, he states, positively be ensured by mere naked-eye inspec- tion, and I quite agree with him. The followinrr case, however, from my note book, shows how difficult even with the aid of the microscope it might be to say positively where all cancerously aflected tissue ceased. Josephine R., cook, large and fat, had the rigiit breast amputated for an enormous scirrhous growth at least as large as two fists. About the centre there was a roundish firm, tthity-grey mass, the size of a walnut, but the rest of the tumor was made up of fatty lobes intersected by patches of a greyisli, dense fibrous tissue, continuous with the central mass. This :onsisted of a very abundant fibrous stroma, the ihics being often very perfectly formed, and intcr- iiciiig in a dense irregular network. Their inter- 393 spaces were filled up either by imperfectly formed fibroid stroma, or by oily or granular matter, with many nuclei and granulous corpuscles. The nu- clei were for the most part of that large clear kind almost diagnostic of cancer; they appeared to expand as it were into the granulous cells. Some- times_ there were seen longish strands made up of nuclei imbedded in a granulous matter, suggesting the idea of their having been formed in the ducts. In one part there were two spherical cystleta full of a celloid growth, which perhaps resulted from distension of the terminal gland cavities. A por- tion of the growth, some distance from the centra nucleus, exhibited to the naked eye nothing but large fat masses separated by bands of finn whity fibrous tissue ; these, however, consisted of the same fibre and cell structure as the central nucleus. In the most distant part of the removed mass the layers of fibrous tissue presented generally no trace of cells except some imprisoned fat ones. At one part, however, I found a large group of corpuscles, more like ordinary nuclei than cancerous, some of them were elongated. Between these, however, and some of those in the central nucleus there was no marked difference ; the latter, I noted particu- larlj', when of smaller size, were indistinguishable from healthy nuclei. This was a case of scirrhus with predominance of fibrous stroma ; only in one part was cell formation notably proceeding. Yet it cannot be supposed that the fibrous stroma which extended out indefinitely into the surround- ing fat was not of cancerous quality. The group of small nuclear corpuscles in the most remote part one cannot but think might have developed into large evident cancer nuclei, and were potentially equivalents. What hope could there be in such a case as this that the microscope could determine where disease ceased ! Masses of tubercle may occasionally be taken for cancer, as Dr. Bennett states was the case in Obs. xxxii. of his work ; the mistake being, how- ever, easily rectified by microscopic examination, ruberculated glands, he says, may present to the naked eye all the external characters of cancerous growths. Infiltrated tubercle, he thinks, would generally be easily distinguished, but I think I have seen a case where the presence of numerous enlarged cervical glands, and of a greyish solidi- fied state of the lung made the distinction by no means easy. The absence of fibrous stroma, and of any notable amount of peculiar cell growth,'with an abundance of the faint, withered-looking tubercle corpuscles imbedded in much granular and oily matter, would be the guiding points of the diagnosis. From enchondroma cancer can usually be dis- tinguished without much difficulty, but when the former IS softened, it may present, says Dr. Ben- nett, all the external characters of encephaloma tven on microscopic examination the two may be confounded, as the cartilage cells which then float loose mi.xed with granules and the debris of i tumor closely resemble those in cancerous growths.- Mr Paget describes, after Bruch, the colls of enchondroma as closely imitating in their utter diversity the multiform ciinnictcr of' the can- cerous. It is therefore clear that in cases of doubt we must look rather to the vital actions of the tumor than to its structure for determination of Its nature. Slow and painless growth • the absence of cnchexia, of recurrence after removal, of