ANEURISM. 1S9 Experience proves, however, that the circum stance of there being two nneurisras in the limb should not prevent the operation, which is to be practised at separate periods. Facts, in support of this statement, are quoted by Mr. Hodgson (P. 310.) An aneurism may form spontaneously, and yet the peison may recover after an operation, with- out having a recurrence of the disease in any part. Mr. Guthrie knew a man who survived the ope ration for popliteal aneurism in both limbs for twenty-five years, and died at last of fever. (On the Diseases and Injuries of Arteries, p. 61 and 121.) Op the spontaneous Cure, and general Treatjient, of Anburisms. The obliteration of the sac, in consequence of a deposition of laraellated coagulura in its cavity, as Mr. Hodgson has well described, is the mode by which the spontaneous cure of aneurism is in most instances effected. The blood soon deposits upon the inner surface of the sac a stra- tum of coagulum; and successive depositions of the fibrous part of the blood by degrees lessen the cavity of the tumor. At lengtii the sac becomes entirely filled with this substance, and the depo- sition of it generally continues in the artery on both sides of the sac as far as the giving off of the next large branches. The circulation through the vessel is thus prevented ; the blood is con- veyed by collateral channels; and another pro- cess is instituted, whereby the bulk of the tumor is removed. (On the Diseases of Arteries, p. 114.) Such desirable increase of the coagulated blood in the sac is indicated by the tumor be- coming more solid, and its pulsation weak, or ceasing altogether. In aneurisms of the limbs, the cure by coagulation is believed by Mr. Guthrie to be promoted by two natural processes, viz. the en- largement of the collateral branches, and the effort made to close or shut up the lower openings from the aneurism. He states, that in the Hunterian col- lection, there are several examples of all the open- ings into the aneurism, save the upper one, having been closed during life. It does not appear to him, however, that the coagulation of the whole of the blood in an aneurismal tumor is the necessary consequence of the closure of the lower opening; and unless this happens, the swelling will continue to increase. (See Guthrie, On Diseases of Arteries. p. 90.) Amongst Mr. Hodgson's plates may be seen one representing an aneurism of the femoral artery, or rather a dilatation of it, involving the whole of its circumference, and where the blood continued to pass through a narrow channel in the centre of the lamellatcd blood, nearly in its natural course. Had nature been allowed more time for the com- pletion of her processes, what would have been the mode of cure.° Probably the obstruction of the central channel by solid blood, the deter- mination of the circulation to the collateral vessels, and then the gradual removal of the tumor by the absorbents. Whether a case, reported by Mr. Guthrie as one of an external aneurism cured with the artery remaining pervious, is an unequi- vocal example of this occurrence, I cannot mi- dertakc to determine. (Sec Guthrie, On Diseases of the Arteries, p. 100.) Another mode, in which the disease is sponta- neously cured, happens as follows:—An aneurism is sometimes deeply attacked with inflammation and gangrene; a dense, compact, bloody coagu- lum is formed within the vessel, shutting up its canal, and completely interrupting the course of the blood into the sac. Hence, the ensuing sphacelation, and the bursting of the integuments aud aneurismal sac, are never accompanied by a fatal hemorrhage; and the patient is cured of the gangrene and aneurism, if he has strength suf- ficient to bear the derangement of the health ne- cessarily attendant on so considerable an attack of inflammation and gangrene. I remember a femoral aneurism in the York Hospital, where a cure was accomplished in this niiinuer. Mr. Guthrie has seen three cases of inguinal aneurism, attacked by inflammation and sloughing. [On Diseases of Arteries, p. 96.) One was the case under Mr. Albert, in the York Hospital, where the patient recovered; in the two others the patients died, worn out by the discharge and the extension of ulceration to the hip-joint; without which last complication, Mr. Guthrie deems it probable that both patients would have recovered — the ends of the artery, above and below the disease, having been obliterated. When a patient dies of hemorrhage, after the mortification of an aneurism, it is because only a portion of the integuments and sac has sloughed, without the root of the aneurism, and especially the arterial trunk, being similarly affected. For cases illustrative of this statement, refer to Hodgson, On Diseases of Arteries, p. 103, ^-c. All surgeons will concur with Mr. Guthrie that the attempt at a cure by sphacelation is attended with so much peril, that, if possible, it should be prevented by a surgical operation. Yet ■' the operation should never be had recourse to after mortification (that is to say, a deeply extending sphacelation) has begun. If the patient dies of the mortification, the operation is useless; and if he survives it, the operation is unnecessary." (See Guthrie, On Dis. of Arteries, p. 98.) When the inflammation and sloughing are superficial and very united, the operation would be indicated, because unless the arteries were first taken up, the patient would die of hemorrhage on the slough being loosened. Sir A. Cooper, however, tied"the ex- ternal iliac artery in two cases of inguinal aneurism when gangrene existed, and though the tumors burst, no hemorrhage ensued. The coagulum was discharged, the sac granulated, and the sores gradually healed. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iv ) third way in which an aneurism may be spontaneously cured, is by the tumor compressing the artery above, so_ as to produce adhesion of its sides, and obliteration of its cavity. This mode to n ""•^"S""''" = it "'as been adverted to by Sir E Homo, Scarpa, Dr. John Thomson indo hers; but some facts, tending to prove u' ave been collected by Mr. Hodgson? and are pub-' lished in his meritorious work. (See p 107 &c^ ^Mr'c'l^ mode of cure is, 1 do not coincide with Mr. Guthrie in looking upon this account as mere theory (op. cit. p. 9(!) ; for wo know by dissection, that the pressure of an aneurismal tumor upon the artery connected with it, may ead to the obliteration of the part or vessel pressed upon. Mr. Lawrence has mentioned in his lectures the particulars of a case, where the pressure of the sac of an aneurism in the groin