956 a certain way, hea on the tunica vaginalis, as well as the spematic cord. [Under this again is another lascia, derived from the internal ring, and in imme- diate contact with the hernial sac, called by the several names of fascia propria, fascia injundi- hiiliformis, fascia spermatica interna.'^ _ As the epigastric artery naturally runs tlrst be- hind the spermatic cord, and then along the inner margin of the internal ring, and as the viscera are protruded over the cord, they must be situated on the outer side of the artery, which runs first be- hind the neck of the sac, and then on its inner side. Hence the inner margin of the sac, when inspected on the side towards the abdomen, seems to be formed, as it were, by the track of the vessel. (See Lawrence, p. 179.) That this is the ordinary situation of the epigastric artery, in relation to the oblique inguinal hernia, is confirmed by the con- current testimonies of Camper, Chopart, Desault, Sabatier, Sir A. Cooper, Hesselbach, Scarpa, &c., and by preparations to be seen in almost every museum. In recent oblique inguinal hernise, the internal and external rings are at some distance from each other, the first being situated obliquely upwards and outwards in relation to the former ; but the pressure of the protruded viscera gradually forces the internal opening more towards the pubes, and nearer to the abdominal ring, so as to render the neck of the hernial sac, and the inguinal canal, very short. {Hesselbach, p. 29.) Thus, in large iernise of long standing, the opening into the ab- domen is almost direct, and the epigastric artery becomes situated nearer the pubes than in the na- tural state. Though such is the ordinary direction in which inguinal hernia protrudes, there are occasional va- rieties. In one of these, the viscera, instead of de- scending through the inguinal canal, are at once thrust through the external abdominal ring itself {direct inguinal hernia), and the opening into the belly is then direct; the hernial sac, instead of pass- ing on the external side of the spermatic vessels, as is usual, now lies on their inner or pubic side. The following is Scarpa's description of the dis- placement of the epigastric artery in the greater number of cases of inguinal hernia:—" This artery, which, in the natural state, runs about ten lines from the external abdominal ring, has its situation and direction so changed in subjects affected with hernia, that it crosses the posterior part of the neck of the hernial sac, and is pushed from the outer to the inner side of the abdominal ring. In order to comprehend the reason of this displace- ment, it is necessary to recollect what I have else- where said of the formation of inguinal hernia, and of the manner in which the spermatic cord crosses the epigastric artery. The hernia begins to form at the very place where the spermatic cord passes under the inferior margin of the transverse muscle, and this place is rather nearer the ilium than that where the epigastric artery passes to- wards the rectus muscle. In its progressive exten- sion, the hernial sac constantly follows the same track as the spermatic cord, since it is situated "pon its anterior surface. As has been already ex- plained, this cord crosses the epigastric artery consequently the hernial sac must necessarily pass' fro n t '""^ "J^"^^ ^^'^ ^^'^^^y- ^^^""^ protruding irom the canal of the abdominal ring. At the HERNIA. same time, the internal orifice of the hernia becom- ing larger, and the inguinal canal shortened by the approximation of its two orifices to each other, it follows that, at the period when the hernia begins to make its appearance in the groin, the epigastric artery is unavoidably situated behind the neck of the hernial sac, and is pushed from the outer to the inner side of the ring. The removal of the epigas- tric artery from one side of the ring to the other (says Scarpa) is a phenomenon which may be regarded as almost constant in oblique inguinal hernia. [If there be any obliquity in the neck of the san, the epigastric artery will not be displaced to the extent supposed by Scarpa; in fact, the artery- will move with the neck of the sac only. Wherever this is situated in oblique inguinal hernia, there will be the epigastric artery in close contact with Its inner side. It is therefore only in those cases of long standing, where the internal ring is drawn down to the situation of the external ring, and where the inguinal canal is consequently obliterated, that the epigastric artery is so displaced as to be situated as far inwards as the inner border of the external abdominal ring. In such cases the ai'tery will be found to surround three parts of the neck of the sac, the posterior, the inner, and the upper side. We have several times dissected cases of this kind, which could hardly be distinguished from cases of direct inguinal hernia. In these instances we have remarked that the artery so smrounded the upper as well as lower and inner part of the neck of the sac, that the only safe direction to divide the stricture would be upwards and out- wards, and that Sir A. Cooper's advice to cut directly upwards in all cases would almost of neces- sity lead to the wounding of this artery.] Scarpa continues : — "I have examined the bodies of a great number of subjects affected with this species of hernia, and it has been only in a very few that I met with the epigastric artery re- taining its natural situation on the outer side of the abdominal ring. In investigating the reason of this exception, I have observed in all the indivi- duals who presented it a very remarkable weak- ness and flaccidity of that part of the abdominal parietes which extends from the ilium to the pubes. In all, the displaced viscera had passcj through tlie aponeurosis of the transverse and inter- nal oblique muscles; not in the vicinity of the ilium, as is commonly the case, but at a little distance from the pubes, giving to the upper pillar of the rim: a curvature that is extraordinaiy, and dispropoi"- tioned to the smallness of the hernia, [This is the direct inguinal hernia of Sir A, Cooper.] I ob- served also that the neck of the hernial sac did not pass in an oblique direction from the ilium to the pubes, but that it protruded from the abdomen almost in a direct line from behind forwards. In short, in these individuals, the small cul-de-sac of the peritoneum, which constitutes the origin of the j hernial sac, had not begun to be formed under the | edge of the transverse muscle, at the point where J the spermatic cord runs outward; but it Jiadpassed through the aponeurosis of the internal oblique and transverse muscles, at a little distance from ihe\ pubes, and within the point at which the spermaliot cord crosses the c])igaslric artery. The small heriiialT sac, having at this part come into contact with andl united to the spernmtic cord, protruded at the ex-| ternal orifice of the inguinal canal, without displac- ing the epigastric artery from its natural situation.