DISLOCATION. 585 culty.arose from the upper surface of the bone heing turne'd downwards, while the back projection of what was naturally the lower part of it took hold of the tibia in the manner of a hook. {A7muaire ]\fed. Chir. dcs Hopitaux de Paris, 1819, p. 28.) [Diipuytren met with two other cases of this nature, and Malgaigne mentions in all six instances of it. In three of these the bone was only twisted half round upon itself; in the three others it was turned completely upside down. In those cases in which the bone was twisted half round onlj', the superior articular surface was directed outwards in two, inwards in the remaining one. Where the bone was completely reversed, it was uncertain in which direction the movement had taken place. In all, the dislocation was simple, there was no fracture of either tibia or fibula, nor had these bones been se- parated from their connections. The astragalus was incompletely luxated upon the scaphoid, sometimes directly forwards, sometimes obliquely forwards and inwards, or forwards and outwards. It would be very difficult to distinguish a dislo cation of ihis nature from an ordinary partial dis- location of the astragalus ; indeed, the distinction has never yet been made. M. Malgaigne suggests that possibly a very careful examination of the prominences of the astragalus might assist the diag- nosis, and if it were established that the bone had undergone the complete reversal of its position, no attempts at reduction should be made, as there is no chance of their being attended with success. If, however, it were only turned half round, it is just possible that it might be replaced, although this has never yet been accomplished. In one of Dupuytren's cases, as has been seen, he cut down upon the bone and removed it at once; in another he removed it six months after the accident, in consequence of the foot having become useless Mr. Smith, of Leeds, also removed the astragalus five months after the accident, the bone having be- come exposed by sloughing of the integuments These cases did well. In two other cases the at- tempts at reduction caused eschars to form over the head of the bone, but the ulcers healed, and the bone was left undisturbed. In a preparation of which M. Malgaigne gives a drawing, the astra- galus is turned half round, and has become anky- losed to the os calcis.] [Dislocations op the Os Calcis.] [A dislocation of the os calcis from the astragalus and cuboid bone, without any displacement of the other bones of the foot, has been observed, but such an occurrence is very rare. According to Chelius the 03 calcis may, in consequence of a fall on the heel or other violence, be dislocated outwards from the astragalus and cuboid bone. The great deformity of the heel is the groiind of this diagnosis. Th bone must be pressed back into its place, and then retained by proper apparatus. As tho consequence of an old dislocation of the heel bone which had been produced in early life by violently dragging off a boot, he states that he has observed a degenera- tion like elephantiasis, which rendered .amputation necessary. (See Si/st. of Surr/. Soutli's transla- tion, vol. i. p. 812.) In this case the dissection showed a complete dislocation of the os calcis out wards, so that the astragalus supported the weigl of the body. Another instance is mentioned by Rognetta, but, like the last, is somewhat vaguely reported. Here the anterior tuberosity is said to have been displaced upwards and outwards, and the heel, the prominence of which had almost dis- appeared, was turned downwards and inwards. See Malgaigne, t. ii. p. 1068.) Mr. Hancock has given an account of a dissection formerly in the possession of Mr. Hovi'ship, but now in the mu- seum of the College of Surgeons, which afifords another example of dislocation of this bone. The OS calcis was displaced outwards from the astra- galus, and partially also from the cuboid bone, but it is not stated in what direction. The connections of the astragalus with the bones of the leg, and with the scaphoid bone were undisturbed. The lower and posterior portion of the external mal- leolus rested upon the superior and internal sur- face of the protuberance of the os calcis, immediately in front of the insertion of the tendo Achillis. (See LanceU Oct. 1844, p. 70.) Mri Edwin Canton met with an old dislocation of the OS calcis outwards from the astragalus, and nwards from the cuboid, in a subject brought to the dissecting-room. The astragalus with the tibia were thrown inwards, but the fibula had been fractured two inches and a half above the mal- leolus, and that portion of the convex articular sur- face of the OS calcis which was unoccupied by the astragalus was so fashioned as to afford accommo- dation for the play of the inner side of the fibular malleolus. The anterior part of the os calcis, by continued pressure, had separated the cuboid bone from the scaphoid, and nearly touched the external cuneiform. For further details see Lancet, vol. i. 1847, p. 505. Two cases of dislocation of the os calcis outwards from the astragalus, and upwards from, tlie cuboid, observed at the Hotel Dieu at Marseilles, are referred to by M. Malgaigne. In one the patient, a sailor, had been struck on the inner side of the leg and foot by a piece of timber which had fallen from a height. The external malleolus was deeply depressed. Beneath it was a considerable pro- jection, formed by the superior and external surfaces of the OS calcis; in front was recognised the anterior process of the os calcis, separated from the cuboid, upon which it formed a projection. The internal malleolus was clearly defined, beneath it was felt the internal surface of the astragalus, and lower down was a depression, in the centre of which the skin was thrown into folds, and which was bounded behind by the posterior border of the os calcis and tendo Achillis. The articulations of the astragalus with the tibia and with the scaphoid bone were uninjured, and the movements of the foot upon the leg, with the exception of adduction and abduction, were preserved. The reduction was easily effected. An assistant drew tho lower part of the leg outwards, while the surgeon, M. Jourdan, pressed the os calcis in the contrary direc- tion. The patient was able to walk in three weeks and was quite well at the end of a month. In tho other case the os calcis was thrown outwards and its anterior part rested upon the upper surface of the cuboid, but the cuboid was also dislocated outwards, and projected on the outer border of the foot, so that tlie tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone could not be felt. M. Jourdan reduced the os calcis without difficulty, but tho cuboid remained dislocated, and it was necessary to use strong pres- sure separately upon the latter to return it into its place. The cure was complete at the end of a month. (See Malgaigiie, t. ii. p. 1069.)]