10J« HOSPITAL GANGRENE. female wards of Middlesex Hospital, throe cases occurred, which might be classed under the head of hospital gangrene, of which the following is u short account: — " Case I. — The disease attacked a common ulcer of the leg. The surface became black and pulpy, with a broad, very red margin of integu- ment, a raised edge, and great pain. From the size of half-a-crown, the disease extended, and occupied, ere it was stopped, a space of a large wash-hand saucer, exposing the muscles and bone. It was arrested by the application of pure nitric acid, and the removiil of the patient into another ward. " Case II.—The disease appeared on an ulcer by the side of the anus, presented the same character, but was arrested by balsam of Peru, locally, and a grain of opium every six hours internally. The disease recurred, and the patient was removed from the hospital " Case III.—A punctured wound of the chest did not heal, but that of the integument enlarged by the conversion of the tissue into a greyish pulpy substance (not black, and without the fiery margin and intense pain of the other cases), more like pha- gedaena. It was stopped by balsam of Peru. ' I have never seen,' he says, ' a similar case in the Middlesex Hospital before or since.' " I have mentioned the above cases of Iiospital gangrene because they are, as far as I can ascer- tain, the only instances of the disease which have been seen in either of the London hospitals for manj' j'ears. Cases occurred many years since in the old Westminster Hospital, and also in the York Hospital at Chelsea, which latter being a military establishment, the disease was believed to have been brought home by the sick and wounded soldiers from abroad. With these exceptions, I have the best grounds for stating that in no other hospital in London has it existed in the memory of either of the present surgeons; so that it is a di- sease entirely unknown to them, excepting to the few who have seen it elsewhere. "The only cases that I have seen," continues Mr. South, " with the slightest resemblance to hos- pital gangrene, were the sloughy stumps now and then occuiTing,perhaps more frequently during those years, formerly, when our wards were much troubled with erysipelas. The operation would either seem to be going on favourably for two or three days, the patient comfortable, and adhesion in progress, when a sudden change would set in, the stump become painful, swollen, hard, and red, the ununited part become sloughy, and the united part falling asunder, and soon also becoming sloughy; or, the stump never making any attempt at union, but soon be- coming painful, swollen, and sloughy. In either case, the patient himself hot, drj^, flushed, with brown tongue, and foul alvine discharges, the pulse quick, irritable, delirium and death super- vening. I said such cases occurred, perhaps, more frequently when erysipelas was rife; but they really do happen when no erysipelas is in the ward at the time, nor has been for some months, and they occur not unfreqnently in primary amputa- tions in stout persons who have been accustomed to large quantities of beer and spirits, or of both, and from which they arc not unfreqnently entirely at once (and, as I consider, improperly) debarred; and hencp, with a greater call than usual upon the powers of the constitution, are left to meet it with diminished means. Such cases are to be considered merely as resulting from want of power; but they are never epidemic or contagious, and must not be confounded with hospital gangrene, which, how- ever frequent it may be elsewliere, is, in London, at the present time, and has been for many years, unknown by personal experience to most hospital surgeons."] Theatmknt, With the view of preventing the disorder, the wards in which the wounded are placed should not be crowded; they ought to be freely ventilated, and, if possible, not communicate. The utmost attention to cleanliness should be paid, and all filth and stagnant water removed. It has been asserted, but with what accuracy I cannot deter- mine, that the predisposition of the wounded to this species of gangrene maybe lessened by a well- chosen diet, hy drinks acidulated with vegetable acids, or with sulphuric acid, and by the mode- rate use of wine. The state of the stomach and bowels should be particularly attended to, and, if out of order, emetics and purgatives ought to be immediately employed, and repeated according to circumstances. The dressings should be applied with extreme attention to cleanliness, and too much care cannot be taken to prevent the infectious matter of one wound from coming into contact with another through the medium of sponges (see Wcl- hank in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi. p. 305), instru- ments, &c. " Whatever may be the source of the disease (says a late writer), it is at least suffici- ently ascertained, that when it occurs, its propaga- tion is only to be prevented by the most rigid attention to cleanliness, and by insulating the per- son or persons affected, so as to prevent all direct intercourse between them and the other patients; for, so far as I have had an opportunity of observ- ing, ninety-nine cases in the hundred were evi- dently produced by a direct application of the morbid matter to the wounds, dressings, &c.; while others, who were in every other respect equall}' exposed to its operation, never caught the disease. In attempting to prove this by experiment, I have placed three patients with clean wounds alternately between three otlier patients, severely affected with the disease. They lay in a part of a ward which was appropriated for patients who were labouring under the disease, and of whom there were at the time a considerable number. Their beds were on the floor, and not more than two feet distant from each other; but all direct intercourse was forbidden, and they were made fully aware of the consequences that would follow from inattention to their instruc- tions. The result of this trial was, that not one of the clean wounds assumed the morbid action pecu- liar to the disease, nor was the curative process in any degree impeded." {Blackaddcr, On Phm/e- dcena Gangrwnosa, p. 46.) As many experienced writers assert that the. disease may also be connnunicated from one person to another through the medium of effluvia in the air, I am firmly persuaded that, in the present state of oiir knowledge of the subject, the cautions respecting ventilation and cleanliness (tlie chief practical deduction from the latter doctrine) are highly necessary and important. This sentiment maybe adopted without implicit faith being placed in the opinion that the disorder can actually be transmitted from one person to another """"."S" contagion in the air, because, whether the last ia«i be true or not, attention to cleanliness and veau-