''-O EMPYEMA, physoma wag neither increased nor diminished since death ; and some idea may be formed of its extent, when the scrotum was distended to the size of the head of an adult. Even the cavities of the hoart, and the canals of the blood-vessels, con- tained a considerable quantity of air. We could discover no direct communication between the tumour and the trachea or lungs, although such was carefully sought for." {A. Burns on Urn Surgical A natomy of the Head and Neeic, pp. 51—53.) From such cases, we may infer, that from the mere rupture of a few of the bronchial cells, oc- casioned by irregular action of the lungs, or by some other internal cause, a spontaneous diffusion of air may take place in the cellular tissue. Such examples are dependent on the same cause as emphysema from injury of the lungs ; only the rupture of the bronchial cells in the former cases is less obvious. _ Emphysema frequently attends gangrene, espe- cially the humid. Here, however, the air is the product of putrefaction, and the disorder has not the smallest connecuon with any injury, or disease, of the lungs. In one instance of gangrene from an external cause. Dr. Hunter found, that he could as easily mark the progress of the mortification from day to day by the emphysema, as by the change of colour in the integuments. (See Med. Obs. and Inq. vol. ii.) Gangrene, when accom- panied by emphysema, is observed to have a great disposition to spread. (See James on hiflamma- tion, p. 96.) A remarkable case is recorded by Dr. Duncan, in which several emphysematous tumours were formed in succession over the chest and neck, in consequence of communications formed by ulcera- tion between the lung and common cellular tissue. (See i:di?ib. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. i.) Or the air may first get into the cavity of the pleura, so as to occasion pneumo-thorax, and afterwards pass into the cellular tissue through an ulceration of the pleura costalis. (See Halliday, Op. cit.) Emphy- sema has been known to arise from the passage of air from the alimentary canal, through a rupture of its parietes. {Haller, Opuscula Pathol. Olts. 31, t. iii.) A violent contusion of the abdomen has produced in this way an extensive emphysema. (See Archives Gen, de Med.) In ruminating ani- mals, in consequence of the fermentation of their food, the accident is not uncommon. (See Obs. sur les Animaux Doinestiques, par MM. Chabert ei Huzard.) EMPLASTRUM. [Plasters are adhesive ap- plications nitended to cover for a considerable period the part to which they are applied. ~' usually spread on linen or leathe C. C Puysch, De Emphysemate. Ilaller, Disp. Cliir. ii. 567. Hala;, 1733. U. A. Nies, Ue Miro Em- physemate, 4to. Uuisb. ad Rhen. 1751. Hewson's Paper in Medical Obs. and Inquiries, vol. lil. M^m. (ie I'Acad. Royale des Sciences for 1713. Dr. W. Hun- ter, in Med. Obs. and Inquiries, vol. ii. C/ieston, in Pathological I'lquiries. Abernet/iy's Siirgica\ Works, vol. ii. Richter, von der Windgeschwulst, in An- fangsKr. der Wundarzneykunst, b. I. p. 451, &c. John Bell, On Wounds, edit. 3. Edin. 1812. Ilalliday of Em|)hysema, 1807. ^/Kan Burw*, on the Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, p. 52, &c. Trans, of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chir. Knowledge, vol. i. p. 262. Wilmer'n Observa tions in Surgery, p. 143. F. C. Waitz, De Empliyse- mate, 4to. Lips. 1H03. irtwu*, Patholoirie Chir. t. ii. p. 321, &c. edit. 1809. Diet, des Sciences M^d. t. xii. p. I, &c. Dict.de Mdd. et de Chir. Pratiques, art. Kmphysema. Townsend, in Cyclopaidia of Pract. Med. art. Emphys&me. J. Ileniien, Principles of Military Surgery, p. 376, edit. 2, 8vo. Edin. 1820. C. View, Surgical Obs. vol. i. p. 161, &c. Laennec,On JJis. of the Chest, ed. by Forbes, ed. 3. Dupuytren, Cliiuque Chir. t. i. p. HO, 8vo. Paris, 1832. They are - , , - Some plasters, as the emplastrum plumbi, the emplastrum saponis the emplastrum resinae, can hardly be said to pos- sess any medicinal properties; they are principally used for their adhesive and protective qualities either to bring the edges of recent wounds together' and retain them in position, or simply to cover tender surfaces. They are also used to maintain uniform pressure, especially in the treatment of varicose ulcirs, for which latter purpose they are applied in strips from the ankle to the knee. (See Ulcers.) Mr. Liston introduced a sim- ple unirritating adhesive plaster for adjusting recent wounds, composed of isinglass and gin, which, when spread on while silk, is sufficiently transparent to admit of the edges of the wound being seen from day to day without disturbing the plaster. Other plasters possess stimulating anodyne or specific properties. Of these, the emplastrum am- moniaci, the emplastrum picis, the emplastrum galbani, are of the first kind; the emplastrum opii, the emplastrum belladonna;, of the second; and the emplastrum hydrargyri, and the emplastrum po- tassii iodidi, of the third. The ordinary blis- tering plaster, or emp. lytta;, may be considered as simply irritating without possessing any other medicinal quality; while the emplastrum ammo- niaci c. hydrargyro possesses stimulating and specific properties combined. For the exact composition of the several plasters used in practice the reader is referred to the London Pharmacopceia. In the treatment of chronic affections of the larger joints great advantages have been derived from the methodical application of plasters, as practised and recommended by the late Mr. Scott of Bromley, by the means of which, warmth, a moderate degree of pressure, counter-irritant, and specific agents, were all brought to render at one and the same time unremittingly their combined remedial effects in counteracting the tedious joint disease.] EMPYEMA (from iv, within, and iriov, pus, or matter). A collection of purulent matter in the cavity of the chest. The ancients made use of the word "empyema" to e.vpress every kind of internal suppuration. It was jEtiiis who first restricted the term to collec- tions of pus in the cavity of the pleura, or mem- brane lining the chest ; and all the best modern surgeons invariably attach this meaning alone to the expression. The operation for empj-ema—thoracentesis— properly means the making of an opening into the thorax, for the purpose of discharging pus collected in the cavity of the pleura, though the phrase with several writt-rs denotes making an incision into the chest, in order to let out any efl^used or confined fluid, whether matter, blood, or a serous fluid. It is notalwaj's easy, however, to determine, ajmori, the precise nature of the fluid collected in the chest. Thus, in a case of empyema of two months' standing, occasioned b)' the bursting of a tubercular abscess of the lung into the pleura, the fluid was observed by Dr. Townsend to present all the cha- racters of genuine pus ; while, in another case, where the effusion was produced by a similar cause, and assumed the same chronic form, thoracentesis gave issue to a fluid as transpiirent and colourless