happen than with any other kind of cancer, hecansp no other is common in the form of an isolable mass." ■ Mr. Paget proceeds to relate a case in which a whole large cancer in the thigh, of nine months'growth, came away, together with nearly three inches of the femoral artery and vein which ran through it. This was after an attempt at removal. The pain occasioned by encephaloid tumors seems to depend more on the pressure they exert on surrounding parts than on any peculiarity in their structure. Cachexia is often very apparent in the early stages of the disease.] CANCER, .385 [Epithelial Cancer. (Cancroid, Epithelial Cancroid, Epithelioma.)] [It occurs chiefly on raucous membranes, or the general tegument, but frequently penetrates deep into the subjacent tissues, even into the bones. VV hiJe thus extending, separate masses are often lormed in the vicinity of the original growth. The special situations it affects are the mucous surfaces of the larynx and trachea, of the buccal cavity, the pharynx, the oesophagus, the stomach, the rectum, the urinary bladder, vagina, and uterine cervix ; the skin and sub-cutaneous tissue of the lace, lips, and cheeks, ate nasi, scrotum, prepuce glans, labia, extremities. Its occurrence in internal organs, as the absorbent glands, the liver, lungs heart, and the bones, is rare. Rokitansky (whose account I am following) describes the disease on mucous membranes as forming roundish, wartv- laminated, whitish, reddish-white, or reddish-blue tumors, more or less vascular and circumscribed ■ or appearing as a flat, degenerated patch, with a warty, granular surface. On the skin it may form tumors like the above mentioned ; or, more often a spreading degeneration of the tissue, changing it into a warty-laminar, granular, whitish-red mass, tiome of these growths are stifi; dry, brittle, with a nacreous reflection from their cut or broken sur- face ; others are softer and looser, succulent and tragile, of more medullary aspect. As to structure, they consist (1) ofaframeworh or skeleton ; (2) of a cell-groioth. The skeleton in some cases is absent, so that the growth is a mere mass of cells ; in others, the skeleton forms meshes ot various forms ; in others, again, it has a papil- lary or dendritic arrangement. The cell-groiuih is especially characterised by its being made up mainly of particles resembling those of the normal epidermis or epithelium of the surface afli-ected. TJie mature ones are flattened, and often of colossal size • but the younger and smaller have a more spherical form and granular contents. Free nuclei also occur in ~ ./'Tk'^-<■'^''^ production of hrood-cdU seems also o be a feature in some good degree pe- culiar 0 this form of cancer ; as well as the i~- ment to which the name of "laminated capsules," or epidermic globes," has been applied. The brood-ce Is result from an endogenous formation taking place in the cavity of the parent cell The nucleus expands into a large clear vesicle, within whose cavity secondary nuclei appear and devclopo into cells ; a similar process taking place to a greater or less extent, and in more or fewer of their number It the primary nucleus remain as a clear vesicle it 'la barren. The laminated capsules are formed bv the great expansion of one nucleus of a group within i primary cell, which so compresses the other cells ••hat they come to lie as flattened scales disposed 'round itself, between its own cell wall and that of the parent cell. These structures are not absolutelv peculiar to epithelial cancer ; they have been seen m sebaceous cysts and myeloid tumors ; but thev are nowhere so frequent or so well marked as thev are in nearly every epithelial cancer." " The grey substance of epithelial cancers crra- moiily yields to pressure only a small quantity of turbid_ yellowish or greyish fluid ; but, with rare exceptions, one may squeeze or scrape from certain parts of the cut surface, as if from small cavities or canals, a peculiar opaque white or yellowish mate- rial. It is " like the comedones, or accumulated epithelial and sebaceous contents of hair follicles, or even more like scrapings of macerated epidermis oi the sole. This material, which is composed of structures essentially similar to those of the firmer substance of the cancer, but difi-erently aggregated supplies one of the best characteristics of'the dis- ease. {Paget.) This great authority describes a peculiar vanetj- of epithelial cancer which has not been noticed, I believe, by others. He terms it ths deep-seated, and describes it as essentially con- sisting in a primary infiltration of submucous or subcutaneous tissue with the material of epithelial cancer In Us primary form, the disease is very rare ; but is more frequent in recurrences " near the seats of former operations, or as secondary deposits about the borders of primary superficial growths." It IS very curious that, at least in the hrst case detailed by Mr. Paget,'the cancer sub! stance consisted of scaly particles, althoush the epithelium of the surface was of the iliated umnar kind. This certainly shows that Sve" character oTrh*^'*'™"'"? special'morphical further, that the epithelial cancer is by no Aieans a mere hypertrophic and abnormal devekpmTnTo an existing cell growth, to serve the purpose of eliminating cancer material from the blood ^ The ulceration which takes place on these dis- eased growths is thus described by Mr. St - The surface of the base of the ulcer (formed" bv a layer of infi trated cancer) is usually concave unequal, coarsely granulated, nodular or wartv k >s florid, or often of a dull v'ermilion, or 7ust?red colour; i bleeds readily, but not pwfuser.^and yields a thin ichorous fluid, which is apt to'form scabs, and has a peculiarly strong offensive 0^0^ something like that of the most offensive cutaneous exhalations The borders of the ulcer, or some parts of them, are generally elevated, sL ous tuberous, or nodulated ; frequently they evened and, to a less extent, undermined " Such ulcers are, he states (especially when the lymphatic glands are afiected), more nronp 1 open great blood-vessels than any other tV'''^ he has seen the femoral artery n^S 'pd T '? cerations extending from tli7 ? ^y ul- Epithelial cancer occur "n ^ S< , l^'r"^'" ■vhich seems to^ deserve son": 'dSed'''n^™'. ;husdescrib^d%^iSotr'(;:2^5"-L? ofperipheraifl;;t;;;;f;;-;:;;;^i-X:r:ys cells, ana a very fine interior cylinder ZZT \ an extremely little connective ^issne wX i vessels. The outer layer contains ceils "f di c c