08 AMPUTATION. preserving a sliort stump, containing the upper end of the humerus : for, saj's he, if this bone cannot be divided at least on a level with the tendinous in- sertion of the deltoid, the stump is retracted towards the armpit by the pectoralia major and latissimua dorsi; the ligatures on the vessels irritate tbe bra- chial plexus of nerves ; great pain, and nervous twitchings, often ending in tetanus, are produced ; tlie stump continues swelled ; and, in the end, the humerus is fixed by anchylosis to the shoulder, so that this portion of the arm remains altogether use- less, and renders the patient liable to accidents. " I have seen (says Larrey) many officers and sol- diers, who, on these accounts, were sorry that they had not undergone amputation at the shoulder." {Mem. de Chir. Mil. t. iii. p. .53, 400.) Mr. Guthrie also states, that when amputation by the circular incision is attempted at the insertion of the pectoralis major, the bone will generally protrude after a few dressings. However, he en- tirely dissents from Larrey, respecting the neces- sity of taking oflf the limb at the shoulder, and prefers doing it from half an inch to an inch and a half below the tuberosities of the humerus, as the state of the injury may require. He recommends amputation here by au oval incision, similar to that presently recommended, for removal of the limb at theshoulder-joint, excepting that it should commence about two inches lower down. Without detaching the skin from the muscles, these are cut through; the soft parts are held out of the way of the saw; the bone is sawn; the vessels secured; and the flaps brought together, so as to form a line from the acromion downwards. (Gunshot Woujids, p. 337, &c.) I am decidedly of opinion that, in the de- scription of cases referred to, either this method or Sabatier's operation should be preferred to the re- moval of the whole limb at the shoulder-joint. [The only advantage possessed by the oval over the circular incision in this situation is that it per- mits the bone to be exposed at a higher level. In the circular method, it is often difficult, on account of the proximity to the trunk, to retract or reflect the skin sufficiently; the bone is therefore not sawn through high enough up, and protrusion takes phice in consequence.] Amputation at the Shoulder-Joint. [Amputation at the shoulder-joint will be neces- sary in cases of severe injury to the arm from gun- shot wounds, in some cases of compound fracture extending into the joint, laceration of the arm by machinery, mortification, &c., also, occasionally, in consequence of extensive disease of the hume- rus, and in some cases of tumors, malignant or otherwise, involving the bnne or the soft parts of the arm, and extending high up in the direction of the shoulder, so as to approach near to or implicate the joint.] Amputation at the shoulder has been partly su- perseded of late years by a preferable operation, even in cases in which it would formerly have been deemed indispensable, such as considerable gun-shot fractures of the head of the humerus, a caries of the substance of this part, &c. Bouclicr, in 1753, proved that considerable wounds, extending into the shoulder-joint, might be successfully treated by extracting the fragments aud splinters of bone. (Mem. da I'Acad, de Chir. t. ii. p. 287 et 461.) For further information on this subject, and for the selection of cases in which the practice may be fol- lowed with advantage, see Excision of Slioulder- joint. The head of the Inimerus represents nearly the half of a sphere, scarcely one-third of which x? received by the glenoid cavity of the scapula, the rest being contained in the exceedingly loose capsule of this articulation. The articular surfaces are held together principally by the deltoid, supra- spinatus and infra-spinatus, teres minor, and sub- scapularis muscles. The joint is also very much strengthened by the tendon of the long head of the biceps and by the coraco-humeral ligament. Above the articulation is a kind of osseo-fibrous arch, formed by the acromion, the coracoid process, and the ligament stretched between them. This arch projects more than an inch over the glenoid cavit)', and descends further in the direction backwards than in that forwards. (See J. F. Alalgaigne, Manuel de Med. Oper. p. 294.) If we examine the anatomy of the shoulder, from above down- wards, we first meet with the deltoid muscle, covered by the integuments, some fibres of the platysma, and a very thin fascia. Then we come to a loose cellular tissue, the tendons of the supra- spinatus, infra-spinatus, subscapularis, and teres minor, the accessor)' ligament and fibrous capsule, and the tendon of the long head of the biceps. Lower down we arrive at the scapular portion of the triceps; and then the brachial plexus of nerves, the axillary vessels; and, under the skin, the pectoralis major, the latissimus dorsi, and the teres major. The apex of the acromion is very perceptible just above the cushion of the shoulder, and the cora- coid process may be felt more towards the chest. Between these bony points is situated a triangular interval, useful to be recollected by the practical surgeon, bounded outwards and downwards by the head of the humerus; above by the clavicle and acromion, or rather by the coraco-acromial ligament; and inwardly bj' the coracoid process. This is the place where the joint may be at once cut into with- out any impediment from the bones; and it is on the knowledge of this fact that Lisfranc proposed one of his methods of amputating at the shoulder. When the posterior border of the axilla is reflected towards the scapula, as Velpeau observes, the knife may be made to pass below the acromion, into the superior and external part of the joint. In some persons the acromion is much more prominent than in others; and occasionally it is considerably de- pressed, so that its humeral aspect forms a deep concavity. In childhood it is cartilaginous; and Velpeau found it in two adult bodies separable by a very slight effort, as an epiphysis from the spine of the scapula. {Velpeau, Nouv.Eldm. t. i. p. 428.) The course of the circumflex arteries and of the circumflex nerve; the origin and track of the tendon of the long head of the biceps, between the fibrous capsule and the synovial membrane into the bici- pital groove of the humerus; the mode in which the capsule is attached to the humerus just beyond its anatomical neck; the very open angle formed by the junction of the head with the shaft of the bone; and the circular shape of its head, requiring an in- cision of correspiinding figure for the prompt divi- sion of the fibrous capsule, —are all interesting points of surgical anatomy, without a due know- ledge of which a surgeon cannot amputate at the shoulder with skill and judgment. Whether the operation done by Laroque, in 1686, was truly au amputation at the shoulder-