542 Joum. Hehdom. de Med. &s a conc/enital dislocation of the upper head of the radius in eacli arm, and allusion is also made by M. Paillard to another in- stance of the same kind, which was met with many years ago by Dupiiytren. Cruveilhier does not concur in regarding these cases aa congenital; and adverts to the frequency of incomplete dis- placements of the head of the radius backwards in young children, owing to the imperfect de- velopment of the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, the consequent looseness of the annular liga- ment, and the frequently forcible pronation of their hand, wlien held by it to keep such young sub- jects from falling. In Cruveilhier's Livraison ix. pi. 3. are given representations of an old unreduced dislocation of the head of the radius, which lies behind and to the outer side of the lower end of the humerus, and is lodged in a little cup of a fibrous structure, formed, as Cruveilhier suspects, at the expense of the anconseus and its aponeurosis, or else of the remains of the external lateral and annular ligaments. The head of the radius has undergone a change of shape, and become convex and oblong. The neck is slender, and projected outwards, and the tubercle very diminutive. Fig. 4. of the same plate illustrates the patho- logy of another unreduced dislocation of the head of the radius backwards, which, as well as in the foregoing example, lies on the same level as the apex of the olecranon, in consequence of an elong- ation of the head and neck of the bone, and not of its ascent. The tubercle of the radius, which is nearly effaced, and the insertion of the biceps, are on a level with the coronoid process of the ulna. There is a little cup of fibrous structure for the head of the bone, which l^st part has a thin invest- ment of cartilage. The lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna is obliterated. (See Cruveilhier, Anal. Pathol. Livr. ix. PI. Z,fol. Paris 1829—1832.) nie reduction of ilie dislocatioti bacJcwards is to be accomplished by extending the fore-arm and endeavouring to bring it into the supine posture, at the same time that the surgeon tries to press with his thumb the head of the radius forwards, towards the condyle of the humerus, and into the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna again. Success is indicated by the patient being now able to perform the supine motion of the hand, and to bend and extend the elbow with freedom. For the purpose of preventing a return of the displacement, and giving nature an opportunity of repairing the torn ligaments, measures must be taken to hinder the pronation of the hand. Boyer recommends, with this view, a roller, compresses, and a sling; but it appears to me that a splint, extending nearly to the extremity of the fingers, and laid along the inside of the fore-arm, with a pad of sufficient thickness to keep the hand duly supine, would be right, in addition to the sling, roller, &c. DISLOCATION, M. Ndaton's possession. (See Elem. de Pathol. Chir. t. ii. p. 400.) Three other instances are referred to by M Malgaigne, two of which were recorded by m' Ihomassm in 1776, and one subsequently by m' thedieu These appear to be the only authentic cases of dislocation of the radius directly outwards- although several others have been met with in which a dislocation backwards or forwards has been combined with displacement outwards. An interesting case of dislocation outwards and for- wards has been given by Mr. J, Adams. (See Ci/olop. of Anat. S; Physiol, vol, ii. p. 73; Ab- normal conditioyis of the elbow joint,) Several others also have been observed in combination with Iracture of the ulna; the force producing which, after fracturing that bone, operates directly on the radius and drives it outwards. Two such cases are related by Monteggia, The following is an instance of dislocation of the radius outwards, com- bined with fracture of the olecranon. Sir A, Cooper saw a gentleman set, 25, whose pony having run away with him when he was twelve years of age, he had struck his elbow against a tree whilst his arm was bent and advanced before his head. The olecranon was broken and the radius dislo- cated upwards and outwards above the external condyle ; and when the arm was bent, the head of the radius passed the os humeri. He had re- covered useful motion of his arm, but, neither flexion nor extension was complete. {On Disloca- tions, ed. by B. Cooper, p. 462.) The reduction of ilie dislocation outwards may be effected by extension from the hand, and pres- sure upon the head of the bone in the same way as in the other dislocations of the radius. Should the dislocation be combined with fracture of the ulna, the double injury, instead of increasing the difficulty, will, according to M. Malgaigne, iacili- tate the reduction, since it will allow the extension to operate more directly upon the radius.] Dislocations of the Loaver Extremity op THE Ulna. [8. Dislocation of the radius outwards,—This IS an extremely rare accident. One case came under M. Nelaton's observation in a young man agc'd 20. The dislocation was said to have occurred III his infancy. The head of the radius formed a very prominent tumor on the outside of the epi- conilyle. The foro-arrn was midway between pro- nation and supination. Supination was impossible- but the power of flexing and extending the fore-arm' was preserved. The preparation of this elbow joint Dislocations of the lower end of the ulna re- mained minoticed, until Desault favoured the profession with a particular account of them. He, however, described them as dislocations of the lower end of the radius from the ulna ; but Sir Astley Cooper, and Dupuytren, and most subse- quent writers, have spoken of them as dislocations of the lower end of the ulna from the radius; and they diiTer from a luxation of the radius at the wrist, inasmuch as the hand is not thrown in the opposite direction to that of the radius, which bone is merely displaced from the convex articular sur- face of the ulna, the hand going along with it. This circumstance makes a material difference in the mode of reduction, with reference to the di- rection in whicli the hand is to be pushed. [The ulna may be displaced either backwards or forwards from the radius. Both are uncommon accidents, but, of the two, tho former seems to be more frequent. Dislocation backwards. — Forcible pronation appears to be tho most common cause of tin's in- jiirj'. Pronation of the radius causes the licnd of the ulna to project against the postorior part of its cap- sule, and if the stress becomes ton great the cap- sule gives way, and the head of tho bone escapes.