ANEURISM gunshot wound. " The patient lived fifteen days after the operation, and then died from peritoneal inflammation, and from ulceration of the artery. The circulation in the limb of the injured side was re-established about the seventh day after the artery had been tied." (See A merican Med. Recorder, vol. iii. p. 185 ; and Gibson's Institutes of Sur aery, vol. ii. p. 145. Philadelphia, 1825.) In March, 1827, Dr. Mott took up the common iliac artery in a case of aneurismal tumor pro- truding considerably in the iliac region, and causing excruciating pain. Dr. Mott's incision about eight inches in length, extended from the external abdominal ring, to one or two inches above the anterior superior spine of the ilium The tendon of the external oblique muscle was divided, and also a part of the insertion of the in ternal oblique and transverse muscles. 1 he ope rator then cautiously raised the peritoneum with his fingers, and detached it from the tumor and ves- sels, without doing it the slightest injury. The aneurismal dilatation was found to terminate about half way between the bifurcation of the aorta and the origin of the internal iliac trunk. The ligature was passed from the outside of the vessel, with the aid of an instrument invented by Drs. Parish and Plewson. The protrusion of the intestines rendered this part of the operation most difficult. The exact situation of the ligature was just below the bifur cation of the aorta, and at the side of the sacro vertebral promontory. As soon as the ligature was tightened,the pulsation of the tumor ceased, its size was lessened,and the agonising pam previously felt subsided. The limb having become cold, was wrapped in cotton and well covered, and, in little more than half an hour, its circulation and temper- ature were entirely restored. The operation was completely successful. In 1828, the operation of tving the common iliac artery was performed by Mr. Crampton, of Dublin ; but the patient died of hemorrhage on the fourth day. In this case the circulation, heat, and sensibility, which had been seriously interrupted in the limb for a time, were perfectly re-established, and every thing seemed to promise a favourable result, when, on a sudden the ligature became displaced, and the patient died of internal hemorrhage. In the year 18d.5 the common iliac artery was taken up by Mr. Guthrie, for a tumor, supposed by him and some other surgeons to be aneurismal, but which proved to be of a medullary malignant character. The tem- perature of the limb after the operation diminished but not much. It was constantly rubbed, day and night, and a hot brick and bottles of hot water ap- plied to the feet. The tumor subsided directly. After the ligature of the common iliac, the lower extremity is supplied with blood through the ana- stomoses of the internal mammary with the epi- gastric, of the uppermost lumbar arteries with the circumflexa ilii, or even the ilio-lunibalis ; and, lastly, of the branches of the internal iliac of the sound side with those of the diseased one. [The results of the ligature of the common iliac are sufficiently encouraging. Of seventeen cases in which this artery was tied, nine recovered. In eleven of the cases the ligature was for aneurism, and of these seven recovered. The remaining four rather died from the magnitude of the disease, or from wound of the peritoneum, than from the operation itself ; and in no instance did gangrene occur.] Aneurisms of the Brachial Artery, Surgical writings contain many histories of aneurisms in the bend of the arm, produced by the puncture of the brachial artery in venesection, or caused by a deep wound infficted at the bend of the arm, along the inner side of the humerus, or in the axilla. Such cases must indisputably be followed by effusion ; but the blood extravasated may spread widely in the cellular tissue, so as to constitute a diffused false aneurism ; or it may be confined in one mass, and be bounded by the ad- hesive inflammation, so as to form a circumscribed false aneurism. Morand and others found, that, along with aneurisms, caused by a wound of the brachial artery, the diameter of the vessel was sometimes enlarged through its whole length, above the seat of the tumor. The proximate cause of these cases may inva- riably be traced to the solution of continuity in the proper coats of the artery, and the consequent effusion of blood into the cellular substance. The effect is the same, whether from an internal morbid affection, capable of ulcerating the internal and fibrous coats of the artery, the blood be effused into the neighbouring cellular sheath surrounding the artery, which it raises after the manner of an aneurismal sac; or, the wound of the integuments having closed, the blood issue from the artery and be dilfused in the surrounding parts. The cellular substance on the outside of the wounded vessel, is first injected, as in ecchymosis ; the blood then distends it, and elevates it in the form of a tumor, and the intercellular spaces being destroyed, con- verts it at last into a firm capsule, or aneurismal sac. ^"^Thrcircum^cribed or the diffused nature of the aneurism, and the rapidity or sloNvness of its form- ation, depend on the greater or less resistance to the impetus of the blood, during the time of its effusion, by the interstices of the cellular substance surrounding the artery, and by the ligamentous fasciiB and aponeuroses, lying over the sac. While aneurisms, from an internal cause, are not unfrequent in the aorta, thigh, and ham, they are exceedingly rare in the brachial artery ; though a few such instances are recorded. {Acarpa, Hi, Pelletan, Clinicjue Chir. t. ii. p. 4.) Dupuytren in Noticing the gieat rarity of tn.e ^-"r.^ms of the brachial artery, expresses his belief that Pelletan s is the only well authenticated mstance of it 1 he cases quoted by Scarpa from Paletta and Ila- iani do not appear to him precise enough, and he takes the same view of those reported by Sa- viardand Hodgson. (SeeCTm,-g«« ^^'j''- V>^P;^^^^;{ I The mode of distinguishmg a wound of the brae iiai artery, in attempting to bleed, and the method of t S to effect a cure by pressure (direct pressure C^e meant) are described in the ar.ic^ HKMoa- RH AGE From the cases published by Mr. Cusack,. appel^s that thebrachialformof aneurism towh ch pressure (direct pressure is here meant) is most ap- n icable and in which it is most likely to effec a cure is t^iat o circumscribed false aneurism, unattended ;V"tnmation either of the sac or of the si.^^^^^^^^^^ ;,,„ n.Tts The pressure should be applied to tne diffused, as happened in one of Mr. Cusack s cases-