JANGRENE. :1021 HOSPITAL ) and debilitated, Mr. Blackadder prescribes an opiate, though he remarks that this practice will seldom be absolutely necessary. The morbid action in the sore is destroyed by tlie arsenical solution sooner or later, in difterent cases : tho best plan is to continue the application tmiil an insensible, dark- coloured, dry slough occupies the whole surface of the sore, and until the patient is completely relieved from the burning and lancinating pain. After the slough is formed, Mr. Blackadder employs an ointment, composed of equal parts of the oil of turpentine and the yellow resinous oint- ment, or of two parts of venice turpentine to one of the resinous ointment. " These being melted and mixed together, are to be poured over the sore as hot as the patient can possibly bear." A pledget of dry lint, or tow, and a bandage are then ap- plied; and this dressing may be renewed two or three times a day, the sore being each time care- fully washed with the solution of potass. As soon as any part of the slough is loosened, Mr. Blackadder removes it with a pair of curved scis- sors. With the view of expediting the separation of the slough, he sometimes employed a linseed- meal poultice, which had the desired _ effect, but was found to be too relaxing. When it is used, therefore, Mr. Blackadder found it expedient, at each dressing, to touch the new granulations with the nitrate of silver. After the detachment of the slough, Mr. Black- adder dresses the sore with the above-mentioned ointment cold, or with the addition of a small proportion of the subacetate of copper. The pledget of this ointment is covered with a piece of oil-skin, lightly rubbed over with soap, and a iirm bandage is applied to the whole limb. (See Ohs. on Fhage- dcena Gangrcenosa, p. 49, &c. 8vo. Edinb. 1818.) The author declares that, after the introduction of the above treatment (with the exception of stumps attacked with hospital gangrene), he never saw an instance in which the remedy failed when applied in time and in a proper manner ; " that is, before the disease had made such progress as to preclude all rational hope of success from that, or any other mode of treatment" (p. 23). In Dr. Rollo's Treatise on Diabetes, published in 1797, the opinion is plainly stated that the progress of hospital gangrene might be stopped by very active topical applications, and, in the same work, Mr. Cruikshank says that, " if an actual caustic were to be employed, we should have re- course to the strong nitrous acid." According to Mr. Blackadder, the oxygenated muriate of mer- cury and the nitrous acid were much recommended and employed by surgeons in the 16th and 17th centuries, as escharotics, in cases of gangrene and foul ulcers (p. 113). Several army-surgeons have informed me that the undiluted nitrous acid was successfully used as an application to hospital gangrene in the military hospitals at Antwerp, in the year 1815 ;but that other strong acids had an equally good effect. Dr. J. Thomson also notices that " the application of caustic substances, such as the strong mineral acids, the solutions of potass, corrosive sublimate and arsenic, seemed at Antwerp to arrest the progress of this sore, without exciting inflammation." {Report of Obs. made in the Mili- tary Hospitals in Belgium.) In St. Bartholomew's Hospital the undiluted nitric acid has been used with great success as a local application to phagedsenic gangrenous ulcers. "If the disease be not far advanced (says Mr. Welbank), I at once apply the undiluted acid, after cleansing the surface with tepid water, and absorbing the moisture with lint. Where, however, there is a thick and pulpy slough, it is better to remove as much of it as possible, with forceps and scissors, before the application is made. The sur- rounding parts being then protected by a thick coating of lard, or cerate, I proceed to press steadily, and for some minutes, a thick pledget of lint, pre- viously immersed in the undiluted acid, on every point of the diseased surface, till it appears con- verted into a firm and dry mass. The parts may be then covered with simple dressings, and evapo- ration kept up by cooling lotions. As the appli- cation occasions more or less pain, from half an hour to one or two hours, I have generally given twenty or thirty drops of laudanum at the time of using it. It is always prudent, often necessary, to remove the eschar at the end of sixteen or twenty hours." When the pa- tients have become perfectly free from pain, and the parts below the slough are found healthy and florid, Mr. Welbank treats the sore as a common wound or ulcer, though he has found stimulating dressings generally the best, as the ceratura lapidis calaminaris, or a solution of two or three grains of the nitrate of silver in an ounce of distilled water. But when there is a recurrence of pain at any point, or over the general surface of the sore, whether the affection be slight or severe, the slough superficial or deep, he recommends the employment of the undiluted acid again. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi. p. 369.) [Welbank, however, used a remedy which Guthrie had used ten years earlier : on this point we have the evidence of Delpech, who was informed by some British surgeons belonging to the Anglo- Portuguese army, that the muriatic acid was in common use in the hospitals of that army as a local application for checking the ravages of hospital gangrene, being employed in a diluted state for slight cases, and in a concentrated caustic form for others.] Pouteau, Dussassoy, Boyer, and Delpech, all bear testimony to the efficacy of the actual cautery, and they repeat the application of it, until the whole surface of the ulcer is converted into a finn hard eschar. Even the edges of the solution of continuity should not be spared — "lis doivent iire torrefies et rods pour ainsi dire." {Boyer, Maladies Chir. t. i. p. 332.) The latter surgeon then covers the eschar with a thick stratum of bark, moistened with turpentine. This application is to be removed in twenty-four,_ thirtj'-six, or forty- eight hours, and the surgeon is then to judge from the appearance of the flesh, and the quality of the discharge whether a further repetition of tho cau- tery will be necessary. About three years ago, I attended at Halliford a child that had been extensively burnt: and when « the parts were nearly healed the sore was attacked with hospital gangrene, the ravages of which soon proved fatal. Tho cottage in which this case happened was noted for its crowded and un- cleanly state. The chloride of soda was tried in vain. [Velpeau, in his clinical lectures, On the Wounded of ilie Revolution of 1848 {^Lancet, 1848, vol. ii. p. 172), speaks decidedly of the local and contagi- ous nature of the disease; and recommends the