Society of London, two cases are related, in which, after the bladder had been punctured from the rec- tum, the canula was immediately withdrawn, with- out any bad eftect ; and a similar fact is recorded iu the Medical Communications, vol. i. A curved trocar, five inches in length, is the best for performing the operation, and was recom- mended by Pouteau. It should be introduced into the prominence made by the distended bladder a little beyond the prostate gland, exactly in the centre of the front of the rectum ; but not impru- dently far up the intestine, lest the cul de sac of the peritoneum be injured. For some useful cau- tions on this head, the profession are indebted to Mr. Carpue, who has adverted to the very low point, to which the portion of peritoneum reflected over the rectum descends. {Hist, of the High Ojicration, S,-c. p. 178, 8vo. Lond. 1819.) The trocar should be introduced iu the direction of the axis of the bladder, or nearly in an imagi- nary line drawn from the spot to be punctured to the middle point between the umbilicus and the symphysis pubis. The patient should be placed nearly in the same posture as that adopted in lithotomy ; but the hands and feet need not be bound together, it being sufficient to let the assistants support the legs. The left forefinger, smeared with oil, is to be introduced up the rectum, where a portion of the distended bladder will be felt behind the pro- state gland, and between the converging vasa defe- rentia. The vesiculas seminales, which are on the outside of the vasa deferentia, are less exposed to injury. Behind the prostate gland, as Sir Astley Cooper correctly explains, there is a triangular space, which affords room for the instrument. In the fore part, it is bounded by the meeting of the vasa deferentia, which forms the apex of the tri- angle ; the sides are formed by the vasa deferentia, which diverge as they pass from the prostate back- wards; while the basis of the triangle is formed by the peritoneum, which is reflected from the poste- rior part of the bladder to the rectum. Taking ad- vantage of this space of the bladder, which is not covered by the peritoneum, the trocar is introduced through it into the bladder, about three quarters of an inch behind the prostate gland. The instru- ment must not be introduced directly behind the prostate, as the vas deferens on one side or the other would certainly be wounded. If the trocar be carried three quarters or half of an inch behind the prostate, the vasa deferentia will be safe. {Lec- tures, <^c. vol. ii. p. 311.) Here the surgeon is to let the end of hia finger continue, until, with his right hand, and under the guidance of the left fore- finger, he has brought to the same point the ex- tremity of the curved trocar, the concavity of which is to be kept forwards. Great care must also be taken not to let the stilette project out of the canula too soon, that is to say, before the end of the tube has been placed exactly upon the spot at which the puncture is to be made. The bladder liaving been emptied, the canula is fixed with tapes, passed throiigli the rings on the handle, and fastened in front and behind to a band applied round the body. It is to bo further supported with a double T bandage. A stopper may be em- ployed ; or if the patient be on his side, the urine may be conducted from the tube into a urinal BLADDER. removed, and the canula raised and supported with the hand. It is not necessary to retain the canula in the puncture, after the inflammation has consolidated the sides of the wound ; for there is no danger of the aperture closing up, before another passage is made for the urine. Sir E. Home thinks that, after about thirty-seven liours, the canula may be taken out. {Trans, of a Soc. for Med. and Chir. Knowledge, vol. ii.) Indeed I am not acquainted with any fact, showing the ill effect of removing the canula early ; for here the urine has only to pass through a mere opening, and not through a lengthened channel, like that which remains after the puncture above the pubes. The general safety and simplicity of tapping the bladder from the rectum will alwa3's recommend this method. When, however, the rectum is diseased, or there is much inflammation about the neck of the bladder, or the prostate gland is considerably enlarged, this plan is not eligible. The objections made to the puncture through the rectum are three : first, the annoying tenesmus sometimes produced by the presence of the canula ; secondly, the irritation and ulcerated state of the rectum occasionally resulting from the dribbling of the urine through it ; and, thirdly, the possibi- lity of a sinus being formed between this bowel and the bladder. {A. Bonn, Bennerkunqen ueher den Harnverhalt, <|-c. Leipz. 1794.) Sir Astley Cooper knows of some cases in which such incon- veniences followed, and in particular, one instance, in which the patient died of the subsequently diseased state of the rectum. Hence, the punctm-o of the bladder from the rectum is not a practice on which he bestows any commendation. In the foregoing columns, I have briefly adverted to the proposal of cutting into the urethra behind the obstruction, instead of puncturing the bladder. This plan was first adopted and recommended by Sir Astley Cooper; and it afterwards had an advocate in Sir Charles Bell. Mr. Grainger of Birmingham, also recommended cutting into the urethra, immediately in front of the prostate, and relieving the bladder by the introduction of a female catheter through the gland, or (if that could not be accomplished) by the division of its sub- stance with a scalpel. {Med. and Surg. Remarlcs, c5-c. 8vo. Lond. 1815.) The operation of cutting into the membranous portion of the urethra, behind the stricture, seems to me one of the greatest im- provements in modern surgery ; for, as it is chiefly in cases of stricture that an artificial outlet for the urine is required, the new plan, which as compared with a wound of the bladder, is a trifling injury, nearly obviates all necessity for puncturing the bladder in any waj'. [While entirely coinciding with this view, and believing that the incision of the urethra in the ponneum behind the stricture, is the possible mode of relief, it is right to mention that it is an operation olten attended with very considerable diffi- culty. Occasionally, perhaps, as in the case related by Sir A. Cooper, the urethra may be felt to dilate behind the stricture when the patient strains to pass water, and then the mere puncture of this swellinB will snflice ; hut in the majority of instances, and indeed ahoays if chloroform be employed, the sur- S<'.o"ni"sttrusj; to his anatomical knowledge and dis- iio