S48 DISLOCATION. the rest, I have seen a dislocation reduced with formed between the disnlaced bones. The end tlien to bo hooked to the tape, which surrounds the first phalanx, and extension is to be made. This mode is almost sure to succeed." (SiV A. Cooper, op. cit. p. 4,93, ed. 4.) [A very convenient in- sirument for seizing the thumb and making fcxtetlsiOii Upon it, has been devised by M Luer, and modified by M. Cliarriere, the surgical in- Bttument maker of Paris. (See Bulletiti Gin. cle thtrap. t. xxxiv. June, 1848, p. 500.) A de- scription and representation of it will also be found in the Dublin Quart. Journal, Aug. 1850, p. 118.] Even in cases which are quite recent, this kind of dislocation sometimes cannot be reduced without the utmost difficulty ; and the different proposals which have been made, respecting this particular accident, by Mr. Evans, the late Mr. Hey, Sir C. Bell, and Boyer, deserve the notice of the sur- gical practitioner. On this subject, however, Sir Aslley Cooper remarks, that he has seen too much mischief arise from injury to the tendons and liga- ments, ever to recommend their division, in order to facilitate the reduction, when extension willnot succeed. {On Dislocations, p. 523.) [The cause of the difficulty, which has so often been met with in reducing the dislocation of the thumb, has been differently accounted for. Mr. Hey believed it to arise from the lateral ligaments slipping behind the head of the metacarpal bone, and closely embracing the constricted portion or neck. He thought they might thus prevent the enlarged head of the bone passing backwards into its place. Dupuytren thought it was the result of change in direction of these ligaments, which became placed at right angles to instead of parallel ■with the axis of their bones, and retain the phalanx closely applied against the metacarpal bone. But, as M. Malgaigne observes, in the first place, the lateral movements, which can be communicated to the dislocated phalanx, militate against this idea of constriction by the ligaments; and, secondly, the dislocations which have been artificially produced on the dead body, are almost constantly attended ■with rupture of one, at least, and often of both the ligaments. (Traitc des Fract. Sfc. t. ii. p. 734.) Sir Geo. Ballingall thought the obstacle arose from the constriction of the neck of the bone by the short muscles of the thumb, because, when the phalanx passes backwards, the end of the metacarpal bone passes between the two tendons of the flexor brevis pollicis, and its neck is then closely em- braced by the inner portion of that muscle and the adductor on the inside, and the outer portion with the abductor on the outside. Dr. Adair Lawrie of Glasgow has published an account of the dissection of a dislocated thumb, which is confirmatory of this view : — The dislo- cation had existed for three years, and several unsuccessful attempts had been made to reduce it, The end of the phalanx was thrown on the back and inner side of the metacarpal bone, to the dis- ' tance of at least ,an inch. The end of the metacarpal bone projected forwards to a corresponding distance, free from muscle or ligament. The anterior liga- ment was torn from the metacarpal bone. The posterior ligament was pressed back, but apparently nearly entire. The anterior portion of the external lateral ligament was torn ; the posterior portion was stretched, and thrown back and across the metacarpal bono. The internal lateral ligament was entire. New ligamentous connections had of the metacarpal bone had passed between the two portions of the flexor brevis, one of which was on each side of it grasping it firmly. Dr. Lawrie, however, thought that a great part of the outer head had been torn, but that the inner head was uninjured, having slipped to the inner side of the metacarpal bone. The tendon of the flexor longus lay on the inner side of the metacarpal bone, along with the inner head of the flexor brevis, pressing on the adductor, and pushing it back. On the out- side the abductor was also thrown back and a little stretched. From a series of experiments on the dead body, however, Dr. Lawrie was led to think that, though the muscular constriction might sometimes cause considerable difficulty, the following condition of the parts was likely to prove still more formidable. He found, in dissecting some of the dislocations which he had artificially produced, that the anterior ligament was completely torn from the metacarpal bone, and remained attached to the phalanx and sesamoid bones, in such a manner that the torn ligament and sesamoid bones were carried backwards by the phalanx, and placed between it and the metacarpal bone. The result was that the opening in the ligaments, by which the metacarpal bone escaped, was thrown back nearly half an inch, and the remains of that ligament and sesa- moid bones formed a partition between the dis- placed ends of the bones, and constituted a mecha- nical obstacle to the reduction. This state of parts would, of course, be greatly aggravated by the contraction of the muscles attaclied to the sesamoid bones and anterior ligaments. (See Lond. Med. Gag. vol. ii. 1837, p. 93.) M. Pailloux, having met with an irreducible dislocation of the thumb, at the Hospital St. Louis, also made experiments on the dead bodj-, and arrived at the same conclusion with Dr. Lawrie, that the rupture of the anterior lig.iment at its insertion into the metacarpal bone, and its inter- position, together with the sesamoid bones, between the articular surfaces, was the principal cause of the difficulty. {Nclaton, El. de Pathol. Chir. t. ii. p. 420, and Pailloiuv, Bulletin de la Soc. Annul. 1826,) The plan of reduction, recommended by Sir A. Cooper, of extension downwards with fle.xion towards the palm, has already been described. Instead of extension, direct pressure was recom- mended by Mr. IIc}'. The pressure should be made upon the dislocated end of the plwl.anx, to push it forwards over the end of the metacarpal iDone. Dr. Penneck advised the employment of a piece of tape to pull upon the dislocated extremity of the bone. He tied the middle part of the tape round the first phalanx, letting it cover a part of the end of the dislocated bone, and having the knot on the opposite side. Then milking extension with it, he found the dislocated phalanx slip readily into its place, when the tape slipped off, and the bone was reduced. {Lancet, vol, i. 18-28, p, 268.) An- other plan, first suggested bj' Sir C. Bell, is to.forcibly bend the thumb backwards, at the same time that the posterior extremity of the phalanx is pressed forwards; by this means the anterior edge of the articular surface of the phalanx m.iy be tilted forwards until it overlaps tiie end of the metacarpal bone, and when this has been effected, sudden flexion towards the palm will accomplish