AMPUTATION. 99 j iiy Messrs. Ure, Simon, and Partridge, and six ; : imes in the Dreadnouiilit Hospital Ship by Messrs. j iiusk and Tudor. Mr. Ure's patient died from j ii'iebral disease before the stump had healed. ' Mr. Simon's case and Mr. Partridge's case were attended with successful results. Of Messrs. Busk and Tudor's cases four are said to have recovered with excellent stumps, but the other two termi- nated fatally. In the four successful cases ope- rated on by those gentlemen, '* the posterior part "( the OS calcis was united firmly with the tibia, ■aerallyin about three weeks; but in one instance, anion was good at the end of twelve days." The OS calcis was sawn obliquely, downwards and for- ■vards "in a tine from the posterior margin of its aper articulating surface to the under edge of the : ticulating surface of the cuboid." (See Remarks ■ Pirogojf's operaiion, by J. Croft. Lancet, Feb. , 1858, p. 136J In the only case witnessed by the writer, the heel was strongly drawn backwards 1 V the unopposed action of the muscles of the calf, ad no amount of force would produce the required cmtact between the osseous surfaces. Mr. Syme has objected to this proposal; first, that the os calcis is a bone predisposed to caries, and it is therefore undesirable to leave any part of it ; secondly, that the operation is not facilitated ; thirdly, that union of the osseous surfaces is not I likely to take place easily; fourthly, and princi- pally, that the integuments of the heel are neces- sarily carried forwards, and the end of the stump is covered by skin, which is not destined for sustain- ing the weight of the body. {Lancet, vol. i. 1855, p. 307.) M. PirogofF himself is said now to have abandoned it, in favour of the ordinary amputation at the ankle-joint. (See Fergusson, Pracl. Surg. ed. 4, p. 487.) Mr. Syme also objects to the retention of the astragalus, " on account of its predisposition to caries; one of the great recommendations of am- p\itation at the ankle being, in his opinion, that it ] removes all the bones which are liable to the i disease." (ZawceZ, vol. i. 1055, p. 307.)] Amputation op the Leg. In treating of amputations in general, it has been remarked, that as much of the limb as possible should be preserved. The longer it is after the operation, the stronger and more useful will it be found. But when the leg is to be amputated, it has been a very general custom to operate a little below the knee, even though the disease for which the limb is removed may be situated in the foot or ankle, and would allow the operation to be done much further down. The common practice has been to make the incision through the integuments, just low enough to enable the operator to saw the bones about four inches below the lowest part of the patella. This has been termed the place of election. About six inches below the patella would therefore be an eligible place for the first circular rut through the skin. It has been alleged as a ison for this mode of proceeding, that it is quite uliicientto preserve a few incites of the leg, in ni der to afford the body a proper surface of support in walking with a wooden leg; whereas, if a larger portion were saved, the superfluous part would be a Ljreat inconvenience both in walking and sitting down, witliout being of the smallest utility in any 1'^pect whatever. However, as I shall prescnilv I'i'tice, experience proves that where the injury or disease require it, amputation may be performed at a much higher level than was formerly sanc- tioned; and also, that in many cases of disease of the foot, or ankle-joint, amputation near the ankle may be substituted with advantnge for the old operation a hand's breadth below the knee. It will be necessary to speak separately of amputation at each of these three situations, viz. I. at the ordinary place of election ; 2. between this and the knee-joint; 3. between this and the ankle-joint. Amputation of the Leg at the "Place of Election." Circular method. — The patient is to be placed on a firm table, and the sound limb fastened to the nearest leg of the table. The tourniquet is applied either to the femoral or popliteal artery ; and the leg which is about to be removed being properly held by one assistant, while the integuments are drawn upward by another, the surgeon, with one quick stroke of the knife, is to make a circular incision through the integuments all round the limb. Some recommend the operator to stand on the inside of the leg, in order that he may be able to saw both bones at once. This is the old manner, which is still very generally followed. Many suppose that it diminishes the chance of the fibula being splintered, which is completely divided rather sooner than the tibia. But splintering the bones generally arises from the assistant depressing the limb too much, or the surgeon pressing too heavily on the saw. If this mismanagement were to occur, it would be difficult to explain why the tibia should not be splintered instead of the fibula, when a certain thickness of it had been sawn through. Velpeau considers that it would be a better rule to let the surgeon's position be such as will con- stantly enable him to take hold of the limb below the knee with his left hand ; while Listen, on the contrary, preferred alvyays to stand so that the left hand should steady.the part to be removed during the application of thg saw. [It is in reality a matter of no great importance on which side the surgeon stands, for if the one position gives him the advantage of his left hand to retract the soft parts, the other certainly enables him to hold the limb more steadily while he is sawing the bones.] A circular cut having been made through the integuments, about two inches below the place where it is intended to saw the bones, the skin is dissected from the muscles and bones equally all round the linjb, to the extent of about a couple of inches. The integuments are then turned up, and a division of the muscles made all round down to the bones, on a level with the line where the detachment of the skin has terminated. Any remaining muscidar fibres are then to be divided together with the interosseous membrane, at a somewhat higher level, if possible, with the'catlin or long, narrow, double-edged knife, which is to be carried between and around the bones, until they are completely isolated ; and it should also divide their periosteum at the point where it is intended to apply the saw. The soft parts are next to be protected from the teeth of the saw by a linen re- tractor, made with two slits to receive the two bones, care being taken to let the unslit part be ap|)lied to the muscles of the calf. Reckoning from before backward, the arteries requiring ligatures are: —1st. The anterior tibial, which lies close to the nerve, ami in front of the interosseous ligament. 2ndlv. The posterior tibial II 2 ■