1001 HERNIA. nia. A case of tliis kind was dissected hy Mr. Travers, at Guy's Hospital. {i\Ied. Cliir. Trans. vol. vi. p. 375.) In this last volume may also be found the particulars of an interesting example, in which a considerable part of the large curvature of the stomach was protruded through a fissure of the diaphragm. The accident was iinattcnded with any fractnre of the ribs, and was caused by the upsetting of a stage-coach, on which the patient was an outside passenger. Before death, he vo- mited up a large quantity of blood, and a small semicircular aperture was discovered on dissection in the lower part of the strangulated portion of the stomach (p. 378, 379). See also JB. Sleheliu, Tentamon, Afed.'quod veiiiriculum, qui in Ihoracem inigravemt, Sj;c. describit, 1721 {in Halleri Disp. Anat. torn. vi. p. 675). Hildanus, Pare', Petit, Schenck, &c., also mention cases of phrenic hernia. The disease is quite out of the reach of art. Mesenteric Hernia.—If one of the layers of the mesentery be torn by a blow, while the other re- mains in its natural state, the intestines may in- sinuate themselves into the aperture, and form a kind of hernia. The same consequence may result from a natural deficiency in one of these layers. Sir A. Cooper records a case, in which all tlie small intestines, except the duodenum, were thus circumstanced. The symptoms during life were unknown. (Ore Crural Hernia, ^o. p. 82.) Mesocolic Hernia.—So named by Sir Astley Cooper, when the bowels glide between the layers of the mesocolon. A specimen of this disease is preserved at St. Thomas's Hospital. Every surgeon should be aware, that the intes- tines may be strangulated within the abdomen from the following causes:—1. Apertures in the omentum, mesentery, or mesocolon, through which the intestine protrudes. 2. Adhesions, leaving an aperture, in which a piece of intestine becomes confined. 3. Membranous bands at the mouths of hernial sacs, which becoming elongated by the frequent protrusion and return of the viscera, sur- round the intestine, so as to strangulate it within the abdomen, when returned from the sac. (See Sir A. Cooper, On Crural Hernia, ^c. p. 85.) Pott remarks, that " Ruysch gives an account of an impregnated uterus being found on the out- side of the abdominal opening; and so do Hil- danus and Sennertus. Ruysch also gives an ac- count of an entire spleen having passed the tendon of the oblique muscle. And I have myself seen the ovaria removed by incision, after they had been some months in the groin." (vol. ii.) [Reduction en Masse.] [There is one point of considerable importance, which, though mentioned casually in the pre- ceding pages, has not perhaps received sufficient consideration, — namely, the reduction of a stran- gulated hernia together with its sac, called by French surgeons reduction en bloc, or reduction cn masse. Lc Dran first drew attention to the sub- ject. Cloquet proved the possibility of the occur- rence in twenty cases in the dead body. Dupuytren operated on several cases where this complication existed. Mr. South, in his translation of Chelius, enters fully into the subject (vol. ii. p. 10). And Mr. Luke has contributed a valuable paper on it in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, entitled Cases of Strangulated Hernia reduced en masse, tcith Observa- tions, vol. x.tiv, p. ISO. Every surgeon has witnessed the reduction of a recent hernia, together with its sac, when not stran- gulated; but, in a reducible hernia of any standing, generally the adhesions contracted by the sac to the orifices through which it passed, and to the tissues surrounding it, will prevent the latter from receding with its contents into the abdominal cavity. Some few cases of hernia, which have been irreducible for .years, have been replaced, to- gether with the sac, after some months'' treatment by pressure, in the horizontal position. In stran- ffulated hernia, the case now under consideration, the circumstances which favour the reduction en masse, zive,—1st, the shortness of the canal through which the hernia has protruded, as in a femoral or a direct inguinal hernia; 2nd, the large size of the opening through which it has escaped, and the smallness of the body of the sac, relatively to the neck; 3rd, the looseness of tlie connection between the sac and the structures which surround its neck and body; 4th, the existence of firm adhesions be- tween the hernial contents and their containing sac. Under a combination of such predisposing circum- stances, it will be readily understood that repeated and forcible attempts by the patient and the surgeon to reduce by the taxis the strangulated ruptiu'e, may result in its sudden return en inasse into the abdominal cavity. The cases now placed on re- cord of this untoward accident by various authors, no longer admit of any doubt as to the fact of its occasional, though very rare, occurrence. The hernia under these circumstances will be found situated between the abdominal muscles and the peritoneum, in the immediate vicinity of the orifice by which it had been made to enter the abdo- men. It will of course be contained in its sac, by the neck of which it will be still subjected to pres- sure. The symptoms by which the reduction of a strangulated hernia en masse may be recognised, are,—1st, the recent sudden reduction of a stran- gulated hernia; 2nd, the persistence of the sym- ptoms of strangulation notwithstanding; 3rd, the presence of a painful swelling to be distinguished on careful examination in the abdominal cavity, in close proximity to the opening by which the hernia had escaped from and into the cavity; 4th, an im- pulse on coughing communicated sometimes to the finger introduced through the ring. The last two signs are not always present. A case has been known to occur, where, in a femoral hernia, the tumor formed by the sac and its contents was situated between the pubes and the bladder, and therefore not to be felt by the finger introduced into the ring, or by the hand placed on the ab- dominal wall. In the treatment of these cases the sm-geon should endeavour to obtain the descent of the hernia, by inducing the patient to make efforts by coughing, or otherwise straining. Should these efforts prove successful, the operation should be im- mediately performed with great caution, and with aa little pressure as possible on the sac, lest it should again escape out of view. If, however, the efforts made by the patient fail, which will most probably bo the case, the surgeon must cut down upon the structures overlaying the position formerly occu- pied by the hernia; he must introduce his finger into the canal by which the hernia had pro- truded, and by which it had pasted back into the abdomen. His next endeavour should be to draw down the aac, which he would find lodged between