'f". , HEAD, INJURIES OF THE waias the left side, slanting upward, and nenetrit ing the anterior lobe of the left hem Sre of the cerebriun to the depth of an inch. There was no ettusion of any kind, nor any unnatural appearance excep the hole made by the weapon." Hennen also alludes to the " remarkable case given by M. Larrey. The patient survived to the second day m whom a ramrod had actually passed through the OS frontis, between the hemispheres of the cerebrum through the thick part of the sphenoid bone, and through the condyloid foramen of the occipital bone, without injuring any important organ. The skull IS in the collection of the Faculty of Paris " No apology is requisite for quoting after Hen- nen the following case by Briot: "At the battle ol Pultuska m Poland, a soldier was wounded by a bayonet which had been fixed, but was dismounted and propelled forward by a ball. The bayonet en- tered the right temple, two inches above the orbit • It inclined backwards and downwards,and traversed the ma.xillary sinus of the opposite side, where it passed out and projected about five inches, havins penetrated to the hilt. The patient and two of his comrades tried in vain to extract the instrument I he surgeon-major, M. Fordeau, repeated the same attempts on the field, but without success. A soldier who assisted thought himself stronger than the rest, and, seating the patient on the ground placed one foot against his head, and with both hands disengaged and extracted the bayonet A considerable hemorrhage followed, and ihe natient fainted M. iordeau, who believed him dead or dying, left him to attend to others of the wounded lie revived, however ; the wound was dressed,' and he travelled, partly on foot, partly on horse- back and m waggons, to Warsaw, twenty leagues from the field of battle. Three months after, M i-ordeau saw him, perfectly cured, but with the Joss of the right eye, the pupil of which was im- movable and much dilated." A somewhat similar case IS mentioned by Dr. Rogers, in the Transac- tions of tU Medico-Ckiruryical Society, vol xiii of a boy through whose frontal bone the breech-pin Ot a gun had been driven, above the left supraciliarv ridge, into the substance of the brain, and which was removed, on the thirty-sixth day after the ac- cident, by means of an elevator, and the boy com- pletely recovered, with the loss of the sight of the Jett eye ; no symptoms of any importance having arisen during the treatment of the case. The wound through the bone was as large as a crown-piece, and portions of the substance of the brain escaped. In this case it is more than probable that the large size ot the aperture afforded a ready exit to the escape of blood and matter, and was thus favour- able to the successful issue of the case. Ihe removal of the penetrating body should be alwiys accomplished speedily, and with the least possible force ; and where it is found firmly wedged into the bone and broken off, the operation of tre- phining may be had recourse to with advantage. in all cases of punctured fracture through the tin nnvf •''^r'/^ '^'"-"^ t''" ^4icion s a Ivi nn'^l" ^■'^^ 'f 'he cranium, •emovl ] f .'".'""•"'lu'-'e a probe and attempt its eraoval but it is not desirable to make any mi- oases. run th,- ,.; i V- m sucli cases, «'Uous use of the probe. The general treat- ment should be strictly anti-iiiflmumatory, for this affords the mily chance of relief. Free venesec tion and leeching, with active drastic purges and mercury together with bladders of ice, comprise dable'eff ? \^i' ''''^^"^'^ '° obviate'the formi- dable eff-ects ot these most intractable injuries. Separation of Sutures.-Diastasis, or a separation 0/ the hones at the sutures, may be produced in young persons by causes which, at a more ad- vanced age, would necessarily give rise to fracture. 13ut such accidents are exceedingly rare without fracture. In violent blows upon the head, it not unfre- quently happens that the skull-bones yield at that point where an epiphysis originally existed : thus the petrous 18 often separated from the squamous portion of the temporal bone in the line of its epi- physis ; this also happens at the point of junction between the occipital and sphenoid. Such cases however, diff^er in no respect from ordinary fractures' A diastasis may happen to the sutures at the base of the skull, or to the coronal, sagittal, and lamb- doidal sutures. We have seen it occur in the two latter at the same time; but have never witnessed it without extensive fracture. Pott says : " In cases of great violence offered to the head, whether the skull be broken or not, it sometimes happens, more particularly in young subjects, that we find a suture considerably disjoined, in which circumstance I do not remember to have seen one single instance of recovery." It is impossible to distinguish a dia- stasis ot the sutures at the base of the skull • and even in the vault this is frequently difficult, unless the scalp is wounded. In the case, however of diastasis of the sagittal suture, an oblong swellino- beneath the scalp after the infliction of extraordi- nary violence might lead to a suspicion of the true nature of the injury; for it is highly probable that the longitudinal sinus would be wounded, as the dura mater must be detached from the bone in any forcible separation of the two parietal bones. If firm pressure is made on the part, an interval may be felt between the bones, and the edges of the sutures may be traced. In the course of the coronal and lanibdoidal sutures, there would not be much diffi- culty in recognising the diastasis, if the bones were separated to any extent. But the separation is usually limited by the close adhesion of the dura mater to the bone : occasionally, however, this membrane is extensively lacerated. Diastasis of the sutures cannot happen without very great violence, and, as has been stated, is usu- ally accompanied by fracture. The danger in such cases is very great, from the conditions generallv at- tending extensive fractures; it is often materially increased by haemorrhage into the arachnoid cavity from a lacerated sinus. That accidents of this de- scription are generally speedily fatal there can be no doubt, but that a patient may survive for some time after an injury of this description is attested by the case recorded by Mr. Russel, in the Ediii- burgh Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, of a young man who had a diastasis of the sagittal suture, and who died two years after the accident. In the absence of symptoms of pressure the general and local treatment must be conducted precisely on the same principles which guldens in the manage- ment of fractures of the skull whether simple or compound: if, however, as in the case of the separa- tion of the sagittal suture, there is a wound of the