I 3 of the knife has made a little advance, the com- pressing assistant shifts his hands into the incision immediately behind the back of the knife, and thus obtains a linn grasp of the femoral artcr)', pre- viously ta its division. He retains this hold dur- ing the rest of the operation, at the same time re- tracting the flap. As soon as the limb is olT, the bleeding vessels in the posterior flap are compressed, and tied as quickly as possible. Lastly, the femoral artery is secured, which, while the assistant retains his liold of it, will not bleed. (See Lislons Elcmenls, part iii. p. 3!)o.) The methods of M. Plantade, M. Manec, and Mr. Ashmead (see Velpcau, Notcv. Elem. ^-e. t. i. p. 5-20) ai'e all only modifications of the foregoing plan. M. Plantade makes the prin- cipal flap in front, and seems to have been one of the greatest advocates of this method, which he began to recommend in 180t). Amputation at the hip-joint has now been per- formed in many instances, and the patients saved. The earliest example of'success is that done, as I have stated, by M. Perrault in 1773. Other suc- cessful operations, done by Blandin and Mulder, I have already noticed. Another successful am- putation of the hip, (the first by any British sur- geon,) was performed by Mr. Brownrigg, staff surgeon, on the 12th of December, 1812. The upper part of the thigh-bone had been broken by a gunshot near Merida, in Spain, on the 29th of December, 1811. Some time ago, the man was living at Spalding in Lincolnsliire in perfect health. Other successful amputations of the hip are those performed by Larrey at Witepsk ; by Mr. Guthrie in the Netherlands on a French prisoner of war ; and by Sir Astley Cooper, who performed the operation on account of a disease of the higher part of the femur. As the patient had formerly suffered amputation of the thigh, it was certainly not the sudden removal of nearly a quarter of him; but, I cannot presume to say, -what difierence in the chances of success, and whether any, would be connected with the circumstance. The same re- mark applies to a case lately under Mr. Mayo, where the patient, a young woman, recovered. The proceeding was adopted on account of the agony experienced by the patient from a neuralgic affection of her stump. In June, 1824, amputation at the hip was done by Delpech, on account of a necrosis of the femur, and the patient was completely well in the follow- ing September. (See lieime Mklicale.) The operation was also performed by Dr. Mott, of New York, on the 7th of October, 1824, and the whole of the wound had healed by the 20th of November. This case was a bad fracture of the upper part of the femur, followed by abscesses and disease of the bone. (See PhiUalelphia Jour- nal, ^o. 9, vol. V. New Series.) The patient's age was favourable, as he was a boy of only ten years of age. At this period of life, the chances ofsuccesR will always be greater than in adults, not only in consequence of the remedial power of nature being then particularly great, but on ac- count of the smaller dimensions of the wound ne- cessary for the purposes of the operation. Another successful amputation at the hip was performed by Mr Orton in 1826- ; the disease commenced III the knee ; but terminated in extensive disease of the thigh-bone, large abscesses, and dislocation of the knee, the leg being fi.xed in the bent position, and drawn under the thigh. (See Mid. C/iir AMPUTATION. U? Tratis. vol. xiii. p. 605.) The operation has also been performed with a successful result by VVede- meyer and Bryce. On the other hand, the failures of this operation are numerous, though undertaken by surgeons of reputation and ability. Mr. Guthrie, Dr. Kmery, Mr. Brownrigg, Baron Larrey, Baron Oraefe, Sir B. Brodie, Mr. Carmichael (Trans, of l/ta Assoc. Physicians, vol. iii.); Drs. Blick, Emery, and Cole; Baron Dupuytren; MM. Gensoul, Clot, Roux, Delpech, Pellctan, Dieffenbach, Syme, Velpeau, and Walther, have each had the mortification of losiug at least one of their patients, after this very severe operation. A calculation has been made, that the proportion of recoveries has been six in twenty operations, which is equivalent to a mortality of 70 per cent. At all events, it appears that, in the course of tea years, nearly twenty well-authenticated instances of recovery, after this severe operation, have oc- curred. (See Velpeau, Nouv. Elcm. dc Med. Opir. t. i. p. 515 ; Clielius, Handb. der Chir. b. ii. p. 763.) [In 1844, Mr, Sands Cox, of Birmingham, had a successful case, in a young woman who had pre- viously undergone amputation of the thigh for a diseased knee-joint. The amputation at the hip was on account of a diseased growth in the stump, with obstinate fungous ulceration of the integu- ments. This, it shuuld be observed, is the third instance of successful amputation at the hip where amputation of the thigh had been previously un- dergone; the other two, by Sir A. Cooper and Mr. Mayo, have been already mentioned. Two more have since occurred, and each with a similar result; one by Mr. Syme, in 1849, the other by Dr. Brad- bury of Boston, U.S., in 1852. The reason of the great success of these cases is, no doubt, to be found in the smaller amount of shock and of dis- turbance to the circulation which they occasion; for although the actual operation is the same, the im- mediate impression on the system must be very different where some six inches only of the limb are removed, and where the whole member, equal in weight perhaps to one-fourth of the entire bod^^, is at once taken away. In these five cases, the amputation of the thigh had been done some time previously, and the patients had either completely recovered, or, at any rate were no longer suffering from its immediate effects. But there are two other instances of am- putation of the hip following amputation of the thigh under less favourable circumstances; where in fact, the second operation was rendered necessary by the evil consequences resulting from the first One of these, which recovered, was by M. Textor in 18 tl, for gaugrene of the stump after amputat^ion ol the knee. _ Ihe other, which was fatal, was bv Mr. Guthrie, m 1814, for sloughing and hemorrhage a er amputation of the thigh for gunshot wound We have thus seven examples of amputation at the hip where the thigh had been previously ampu- tated, with the remarkable result that six out of tlie seven were successful. In 1845, Mr. Co.k published a Memoir on Am- putation at the llip-joint, at which period he was enabled to collect the records of eighty-four cases which he gives in a tabular form. Of the eighty- four, twenty-six recovered, and fifty-eight died giving a mortality of, as nearly as possible, 69 per cent. This, however, is in all probability too fa-