HEAD, INJUI lES OF THE. 917 3 n3 since the days of Hippocrates. Valsalva remarks that in a large number of dissections, when one side of the body was paralysed, the injury con- stantly lay on the opposite side of the brain ; and Morgagni and Lancisi had stated that " one might easily conjecture which side of the brain was in- jured, by observing on which side the patient was paralytic." {Van Smieie7i.) Sir Benjamin Bro- die says that he has never met with any exception to this general rule ; whilst, according to Dr J. Thomson {Obs. in the Military Hosp. of Belgiuni), the same rule usually applies, but in some cases he has seen paralysis confined to the upper, and in others to the lower extremity. The anatomical explanation of this phenomenon need not be par- ticularly dwelt upon here ; the physiological ob- servations of MUUer, founded on the experiments of numerous philosophers, may be consulted with great advantage, and the valuable collection of important conclusions deduced therefrom is of the highest interest. Hemiplegia is certainly more frequently ab- sent in cases where blood has pressed upon the brain after an accident, than where it has been effused in an apoplectic attack, and where the rup- ture of the vessel has happened in the cerebral sub- atance. It is difficult to account for this, but it probably depends on the fact that in apoplexy the blood, being usually found in the white substance of the brain, more completely interferes with its conducting power, and the voluntary muscles in communication through the nerves with the part compressed become paralysed. But there are undoubtedly many cases of severe injury to the cerebellum, where a large effusion of blood has been found, in which the hemiplegia corresponds with the aide of the injury. Thus Morgagni has mentioned some cases which he says are invariably fatal, on which he remarks " that in some cases the paralysis was on the in- jured side, so that a doubt arose whether the cause of the hemiplegia may not general!}'' be found to vary from that which happens in the cerebrum. Larrey also {Clinique Chirurgicale) admits the fact that in injuries of the cerebellum paralysis occurs on the same side, but speaks most positively as to the universality of the occurrence of paralysis on the opposite side of the body in effusion upon the cerebral hemispheres. It is difficult to explain these phenomena satisfactorily, for Flourens and Hertwig have shown experimentally that, in inju- ries of the cerebellum, loss of power always takes place on the opposite side, as is the case in inju- ries of the cerebrum. However, too much reliance must not be placed on experiments, however care- fully conducted, in explanation of symptoms which are the result of accidental injuries. The state of the pupil, in injuries of. the brain, should be closely examined as affording a most important means of diagnosis. The iris is controlled in its action by nerves ori- ginating from two distinct sources: the fibres surrounding the pupil are under the influence of the third pair of nerves, whilst its radiating fibres are regulated by the filaments of the sympa- thetic. In simple concussion the pupil is generally contracted, whilst in compression it is generally iliiated. As far as our own observations ex- tend, this is the general rule, but it must be admitted there are many exceptions difficult to explain. Thus, in cases of severe concussion, we have often seen the pupil dilated on both sides; and in fatal compression both pupils have been found contracted to the utmost. Indeed, the dif- ficulty of diagnosis in many cases may be well conceived by what Hennen remarked—namely, that in some cases the pupils were contracted, in others dilated, where the injury was nearly of a similar nature and degree ; while sometimes in the same patient one pupil was dilated and the other much contracted. {Hennen, p. 300, 301.) Sir Benjamin Brodie has seen the pupils dilate with the absence, and contract with the presence, of light, although the patient lay in a state of com- plete insensibility, and did not seem to be at all conscious of the impressions made on the retina. He admits, however, that this is a rare occurrence, and that, when the other symptoms of pressure are present, ilie pupils are generally insensible and mo- tionless, and mostly dilated, though sometimes con- tracted. Every surgeon of experience must be aware of another circumstance mentioned by the same surgeon ; namely, that it is not uncommon for the pupils to remain for a time in a state of dilatation, then to become suddenly contracted, and, after remaining so for a longer or shorter time, to become again dilated; these changes tak- ing place independently of light and darkness. When the pupils have been dilated. Sir Benjamin Brodie has frequently known them to become con- tracted after the abstraction of blood ; the dilata- tion returning as soon as the immediate effect of the bloodletting had ceased. He adverts to a curi- ous case, reported by Dr. Hennen, in which blood was extravasated between the membranes of the brain, and in which the pupils sometimes dilated in an increased light, and contracted in a diminution of it. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiv. p. 352.) An- other observation made by Sir Benjamin Brodie, is an occasional insensibility of one iris, dilatation of the pupil, and a ptosis, continuing after the sub- sidence of the general insensibility of the body, and even unattended with loss of vision. (Vol. cit. p. 354.) Some further observations of Sir Benjamin Bro- die show the difficulty which attaches to this subject. He says : " In a patient in St. George's Hospital, in whom there was an extravasation of blood on the upper part of the right hemisphere of the cerebrum, and no cause of pressure else- where, both pupils were insensible and motion- less; but the right pupil was in a state of dilatation, and the left in a state of contraction. In another patient, in whom there was fracture and depression of the left parietal bone, the left pupil was perma- nently dilated, the right pupil being in its natu- ral state. In a third case, in whicli there was a fracture and depression of the frontal bone,above the right supraciliary ridge, there was dilatation of the left pupil ; and again in a fourth case, where there was a fracture with depression in the same situa- tion as in the case last mentioned, and no cause of pressure elsewhere, both pupils were dilated and equally insensible, but immediately regained their sensibility and power of contraction on the depres- sion being elevated." In cases where one pupil is contracted and the other dilated, we have generally found that the di- lated pupil corresponds to the side on which the greatest amount of mischief to the brain exists. (Sec Med. Gazette, June 30, 1838.) Whether this admits of explanation from the fact that the