1 AN/ESTIIESIA, j There was disease of vital organs in a few of ; he patients who died from chloroform, but, on tlio ! V. hoIe,_they were probahly in as sound and healthy I condition as the multitude who have inhaled this I i-ent without ill effects. Not a few of them cer- iinly were robust young men suffering only from local ailment or injury. This shows that the cidents cannot be attributed to the condition of 0 patient. Some hidden peculiarity of consti- uitionhas indeed been occasionally alluded to as .1 probable cause of the accidents, but there is an answer to this iu the circumstance that many of the same patients had inhaled chloroform pre- viously without ill effects, some of them within two or three days of the time of the accident. In no case can death be attributed to any impmity in the chloroform employed. The appearances found in the body after death fi'om chloroform are not very striking. The head lias generally presented nothing peculiar. The lungs have usually been somewhat congested, and hi seme cases very much so. The quantity of blood in the cavities of the heart has varied very much, probably from its being disturbed by the artificial respiration nearly always employed ; for in animals killed by chloroform, the right cavities t.f the heart are always full of blood, and the left cavities generally contain a small quantity. The blood has in nearly all cases remained fluid after death, as it usually does in cases of sudden death from any cause in the human subject. A good deal of stress has in some cases been laid on this fluidity of the blood after death from chloroform, but there is one circumstance which shows that it is not connected with the mode of dying as a cause, but only as a consequence. If the heart or great vessels of an animal are cut just after it is dead from chloroform, the blood which escapes always coagulates immediatelyand firmly,but if the body is not opened till the following day, the blood 18 found almost altogether fluid, and remains so. The first rule to be observed, in order to avoid the danger of accident in administering chloroform, is to have the vapour always sufficiently diluted with air, to so regulate the process, in fact, that the vapour never constitutes more than six per cent, of the inspired air. The means of effect- ing this have been already detailed. The next rule is to attend closely to the symptoms which have been above described, and stop whenever insensibility is induced, or when the breathing 'has any tendency to become stertorous. When the first rule is followed the second is easy enough; but if the air the patient breathes should become too highly charged with vapour, it may happen that no amount of attention to the symptoms will avert an accident. In several fatal cases, which occurred whilst the patient was carefully watched, the last -beat of the pulse was equal in volume and force to those which preceded it. The great necessity of avoiding accidents with chloroform is rendered the more urgent by the sircumstance that so little can be done to remedy in accident when it occius. If the patient is in •eal jeopardy from chloroform he nearly always •ecovers spontaneously and immediately,"or not at ill. Only one or two instances are known of )atients being restored from the effects of an over- lose of chloroform, who would not probably have ocovered of themselves. Artificial respiration iromptly and vigorously applied, affords the best 137 chance of restoring the patient; and it should bo resorted to as soon as the pulse and natural breathing have ceased. Probably the postural method, introduced by the late Dr. Marshall Hal), is the most ready and effectual. The writer has been able to restore animals by artificial respira- tion, in some cases where they evidently would not have recovered without it, but only when a tube had been fixed in the trachea previously to giving the lust dose of chloroform, so that the arti- ficial respiration might be effectually performed within a quarter of a minute after apparent death. In these trials the action of the heart recom- menced in a few seconds, or not at all. The jugu- lar vein might with propriety be opened if it were distended; for in opening animals just after they were suddenly killed by chloroform, the action of tlie heart has, in some instances, recommenced on the distension of its right cavities being relieved by cutting the veins at the root of the neck. The writer has not found electro-magnetism of any use in the restoration of animals which were killed by chloroform. As to the dashing cold water on the patient, applying ammonia to the nostrils, and such like measures, it is enough to say that they would have no effect whatever, even in a case where the patient has inhaled chloroform within perfectly safe bounds, and is in a state to undergo even a minor surgical operation without flinching. The proportion which the number of accidents from chloroform bears to the whole number who inhale it cannot be ascertained ; for although cases of accident are generally published, the number who inhale it without injury is unknown. It is certain, however, that the proportion of the acci- dents from Its use is extremely small. The remark IS sometimes made, that patients used occasionallv to die suddenly, just at the beginning of a sm-gical operation, apparently without any adequate cause. Whether these cases were as numerous as the deaths from chloroform might be the subject of ingenious speculation, for there is no means of determining ; there is, however, no reason to sup- pose that the deaths which occur under the use ol chloroform are of the same nature, and happen to the same persons, as the deaths alluded to J. hese latter probably arose from tlie effects of mental emotion or of pain, both of which are pre- vented by chloroform ; and the endeavour of the medical man should be, to prevent, as far as pos- sible, both the dangers of pain and mental emotion and also those which are peculiar to chloroform ' Sulphmic ether continues to be still used in some parts of America and the continent of Europe The chief objection to it is its strong and persistent odour, which remains in the breath of the patient frequently for two days. The surgeon also can es the odour of it about with him. The effects of sulphmuc ether are as nearly as possib e the ame as those of chlorolorm, but a much larger quartv drachm of chloroform usually aiflices to make the adult patient insensible, about a fluid ounce of eth r TH"^' ""•'^'^ "^•^-'^"^ taken to CO n- eract e cold produced by the evaporation of the cthei the evaporation itself often becomes so di- minished, that a long time is occupied in causing insensibility; and in some cases, no elfect is pro- duced beyond a state of excitement, as the patient goes on brcatliing air cooled much below tlio freez-