[■10 tumor being afterwards diminished and re- Mvod by the action of the absorbent vessels. In dor to confirm the same fact, Sir E. Home re- nted a case of femoral aneurism, which got \yell without an operation, but on a similar principle to what occurs when the artery is tied. A trial of pressure liad been made without avail. The tumor became very large, and such inflammation took place in the sac and integuments, that mor- tification was impending ; no pulsation could now be felt in the tumor, or the artery above it. The correct inference of Sir E. Home was, that a coagulum, which we know always occurs in an artery previously to mortification, seemingly to prevent bleeding, had formed in this instance, and, in conjunction with the effusion of coagulable lympli about the root of the aneurism, had kept the blood from entering the sac. Mr. Hunter's second operation was on a trooper. Instead of using several ligatures, which were found hurtful, he tied the artery and vein with a single strong one ; but, unluckily, the experiment was made of dressing the wound from the bottom, instead of attempting to unite it at once, and the result was, that the man died of hemorrhage. After this case, Mr. Hunter's practice was to tie the artery alone with one strong ligature, and unite the woimd as speedily as possible. Having recorded Mr. Hunter's cases, which first established the present method of operating for the cure of popliteal aneurisms, I shall not repeat the strong reasons which exist against the employment of reserve-ligatures ; metallic com- pressors ; two ligatures, with the division of the vessel between them ; the interposition of pieces of linen, wood, cork, agaric, &c. between the knot and the vessel ; the use of large ligatures ; and other contrivances, the merits, or rather demerits, of which have been already fully considered in the preceding section. My next duty is to explain the method of performing the Hunterian operation, as brought to its modern state of improvement, and adapted to the wise principles which first emanated from the valuable experiments and investigations of Dr. .lones. (See Hemorrhage.) In the arrangement of the assistants, one of them should be so placed, that, if required, in con- sequence of any accidental wound of that vessel in the operation, he can compress the femoral artery as it passes over the brim of the pelvis ; but, as Scarpa justly observes, no pressure of this kind is to be made, unless the accident referred to should happen, because the pulsations of the ar- tery, inasmuch as they indicate the track of the vessel, must tend materially to facilitate the ope- ration. The surgeon is to explore with his fore- finger the course of the artery from the crural arch downwards ; and when he comes to tlie place where the vibration of this vessel begins to bo less distinctly felt, this jmhil is lo hefixed ujinn for llie lower mil of the cvlcrnal incision. This angle of the wound will fall nearly on the inner edge of the sartorius, just where this muscle crosses the track of the femoral artery, and at the very apex of the triangle formed by the con- vergence of the triceps and vastus internus. A little more than three inches above the place hero fixed upon, the surgeon is to begin, with a con- vex-edged bistoury, the incision through the in teguments and cellular substance, and carry the wound down tho thigh, in a sliglitly oblifjiic line, ANEUKISM. 18-5 from without inwards, so as to make it follow tho course of the artery, as far as the apex of the above-mentioned triangular space, or the point where the vessel passes under the inner edge of the sartorius muscle, In order to make this first external incision with correctness, I consider it a good rule .always to take particular notice of the, line described by the sartorius on the thigh, the inner margin of which muscle, at the place where it meets the artery, as we have seen, forms at once the lower boundary of the incision, and an important guide to the vessel itself. By ob- serving the track of the sartorius attentively, we shall likewise avoid all chance of making the wound too low down, so as to have this muscle intervening between the incision and the artery ; a greater source of embarrassment in the opera- tion, and of troublesome consequences afterwards, than, perhaps, any other error ; for when this has happened, and the surgeon has not room enough afforded by the higher part of the wound to get at the artery above the sartorius, he is compelled to dissect and raise up this muscle from its natiu'al connections, ere he can plainly discover the vessel. This inconvenience made a deep impression on me in the first case where I tied the femoral artery; for the intervention of the sartorius in a stout soldier, upon whom the operation was done, threw me into the dilemma of either dissecting at the outer edge of this muscle, and drawing it inwards, or of enlarging the wound upwards. The latti-r proceeding was that to which I gave the preference, because it seemed to me an excellent maxim in this ope- ration, to avoid making any further detachment of parts from their natural connections than is absolutely necessary ; and I knew, that when the wound was extended a little higher up, the artery would present itself more superficially, quite un- concealed by any muscle whatever. In fact, in the superior third of the thigh, the anterior surface of the artery is covered only by the common inte- guments, the superficial fascia, the inguinal glands, the fascia lata, a little cellular tissue, and the ar- terial sheath. But in the middle third of the limb the vessel is more deeply siated, as, in addition to the skin, superficial fascia, fascia lata, cellular tissue, and arterial sheath, it is covered by the sar- torius muscle, beneath which is a fascia composed of oblique fibres, passing from the tendon of the adductor longus and niagnus muscle to the vastus internus. (See Dr. Qmhi's Elements, p. oO(), ed. 2.) This last facia begins superiorly at the point where the sartorius first passes in front of tho artery, and is here thin ; but, about the mid- dle of the thigh, it is very dense. It terminates at the upper part of tho inferior third of the thigh, in a well-defined edge, beneath which passes the nervus saph.xnus major. If this fascia be divided tho femoral artery and vein will be exposed, (See Ihirrison's Snri/ical yinaloiiiy o/llia Al tering, vol. ii. p. 1.3(), cd. 2.) Anatomy teaches us, then, that the femoral artery may be more readily taken up in the superior third of the thigh than in the middle. Stronglj', therefore, as my principles lead me to condenni Scarpa's modification of the ligature, his use of from foiu' to six threads, and his inter- position of a roll of linen between the knot and the vessel, I feel pleasure in expressing my con- viction of one excellence in his mode of ope- rating ; an improvement which is now obtaining,