244 ANTIMONY. fulous disease of the vertebroe, and in advanced stages of ulceration of the cartilages of the knee, elbow, wrist, &c., the surgeon, instead of endea- vouring to prevent ankylosis, should promote its occurrence, as the most favourable result which the case now admits of. In fact, the completion of ankylosis will denote the termination of the disease. One important indication, however, un- der such circumstances, is to try to let the limb be ankylosed in the posture which will allow it to be of the greatest possible use. Thus, when the elbow is likely to be the seat of ankylosis, the forearm should be kept bent; but when the knee is concerned, the leg should be kept extended ; and when the hip, the thigh should be maintained in a similar position. If ankylosis should have taken place to a certain extent, with the limb in a dis- advantageous posture, this may often be still very much improved by the application of splints, and other mechanical contrivances. The action of any mechanical apparatus, however, must be at first moderate, though unremitting. Perseverance will here succeed when violence would fail, by bring- ing on excessive pain and a dangerous degree of inflammation. Indeed, where the attempts to re- move a false ankylosis by gentle passive motion, embrocations, and the cautious use of mechanical means, fail, it is better not to employ violence, because such an ankylosis is preferable to inflam- mation, abscesses, and ulceration of the joint. As for true ankylosis, where a complete osseous consolidation has taken place, it may be set down, not only as incurable, but as admitting of no im- provement or alteration in the position of the limb, and, whatever tliat may be, the patient must be content with it. Hence, where there is risk of ankylosis, the great importance of placing the limb in good time in the position which will let it be of the greatest service to the patient. [Here followed, in former editions of this Dic- tionary, an account of Dr. Rhea Barton's operation on the liip-joint for the cure of ankylosis, by sawing through the femur between the great trochanter and the neck of the bone, for further particulars of which the reader is referred to the last edition, or to the original in the North American Med. and Surg. Journ. for April, 1827, the nature of the present work not admitting of so long a reference to a single case. It may be added, that the opinion of eminent surgeons of the present day seems to confirm that expressed by Cooper, Sanson, and Cloquet, that such an operation is unjustifiable, and that a true ankylosis is to be regarded as ni- curable, if so startling a word can with propriety be applied to so happy a result of a grave and for- midable disease. The only exception I can con- ceive to this proposition would be, perhaps, ni the case of the lower jaw. It is right perhaps to add, tliat cases are on record of the successful re- moval of a wedge-shaped piece of bone from the front of the knee-joint, when ankylosed at an in- convenient angle. (See also, Joints, Elision of.) ]?iit when all symptoms of local inflammation are subdued, and the general health is good, much may be eftVcted for tlie cure of ankylosis, even when a serious amount of partial dislocation is pre- . jijjg statement applies particularly to sent the knee-joint. Many cases of false ankylosis admit of rupture of the impediments to the free nu)tion of tlie joint by the hands of the surgeon unaided, and the operation is unattended by any unpleasant consequences ; others may be restored to free and natural motion by the careful applica- tion of continued mechanical extension. Louvrier broke down all forms of ankylosis by the aid of a powerful piece of mechanism, but with most sad and terrible results. Scarcely less serious were the con- sequences of the proceedings of Dieftenbach, Pala- sciano of Naples, and Langenbeck, who practised tenotomy and the division of muscles and fasciaj in addition to the forcible rupture of the impediments to motion in ankylosed joints. The reader is re- ferred for a good historical account of this point of surgery, to M. Bonnet's work, and to Mr. Brod- hurst's pnpers. The latter gentleman has been very successful in his treatment of these cases, of thirtj^-two of which he gives the statistics. Mr. Brodhurstlays down thefollowingrulesasabsolutely necessary to success :—The punctures required for the division of the tendons, cicatrices, fascize, &c. to be allowed to heal before extension be made, the limb being kept meanwhile at perfect rest, and in its old position : after six or eight days, the impediments to be broken down by alternate mo- tions of flexion and extension of the joint, under chloroform : the limb to be then carefully placed at its former angle in an extending splint contrived for the purpose : after a few days, extension to be commenced, and when completed to be followed up by passive motion of the joint, at first under chloro- form. Additional mechanism is applied to the extending splint in cases of partial dislocation. The reader is referred to M. Bonnet's valuable woik for descriptions of admii-ably conceived me- chanical instruments.] Spencer Smith. BiBLiOG. AND Refer. — TT'://. Miiller, De An- chylosi, Lugd. 1707. L'Encyclop^die M^thodique, Partie Chir. t. i. art. Anchylose. J. L. Petit, rraite des Mai. des Os, t. ii; J. T. Van de Wynpersse, De Ancyloseos Patliolo^ia et Curatione, snisularibus ob- servationibus et fig. illustr. 4to. Lugd. 1783. Gentle- man's Magazine, 1787, Universal Anchylosis, Liga- ments ossified. Wurz, Wundarzn. p. 224, following the removal of the Patella. Sandifort, E.vtercit. Acad, p. 1. &c.: Anchylosis of the Occiput with the At as, and of the Atlas with the Dentatus. Sandifort, Obs. Pathol.; Anchylosis of the Jaw. Dumas, Recueil P^riodique de la Soci^td de MtS.I. t. x. p. 30. and t.- xiii. p. 352. Hennen's Principles of Military Surgery, p. 161, &c. ed. 2. The examples of General Anchy- losis are numerous ■.Ploiicquetveiers to Columljus, \)e He Anatoraica; Connor, t=tupe/>do Oss.ura Coa- litu, Oxon, 1693; X>e*/«»rf<.'^, m Mt^m. de I'Acad. des Sciei^es, mH; Fra»l<, Keise nach Pans, London, &c p 127 Anchylosis of .111 the Joints except those of tlie Lower Jaw, Olivier, in Journ.de Med. t xii. p. 273- Toio^ Mag. fiir den Neucsten Ziistand der Na- turkunde'^4 b. p. 412 ; Portal Cours d'A"*'-/!^'!!- i p. 14. Phil. Trans. 461 ; J. C Smtth, Nat. Hist, lliberniffi Comit. 1744. Job ii Uechren'sOhs. c. 64, I) ''97 C'n«/4e)J,SysteinaChir.Uodierna!,t. 2,11.699, edit. 1800. Jioyer, Mai. des Os, t. 2, et Traitc des ^?ila<lies Chir. t. 4, p. 553. Vcrdnc, Tn..t6 < es Ban- dages, c. 3, p. 172. Richcrand, Nosogr. Chii. t. 3, p. •i f, cd. i.'ilurray. Diss de Aiikylos, Upsal;I-97. Cruveilhier, Anatomic Pat >olog.que t i- / 180Q_i835. A.Sanson, Diet, de I^''d-.et de Uiii. Pnitique. art. Ankylose. Tmt^ des Mala- dies Acs Articulations, 3 vols. Pans, Manuel d'Anatomic Pathologique &c. Paris, 1857. lirodhnrst, Med. Chxv.Jr^ns vol. xl. p. HO. and Medical Times and Gazette, l8oS. ANTHRAX (avflpa^, a burning coal). See Caiuiuncle. ANTIMONY. Antimonial medicines aie pn.- scribed in a great number of surgical cases, and 1 may say very commonly in all, ^vheiv .t is dcsu- ablo to promote the secretions in general, and those of the skin and bowels in particular. Hence, m