DISLOCATION. 522 coraco-brachialis, the head of the bone appeared. The capsular ligament was torn along the whole of the inner side of the glenoid cavit}', and the opening tvoiild have admiiled a much larger body than the head of the humerus. The tendon of the Bub-scapularis, covering the capsule, was also ex- tensively torn. The opening of the ligament, through which the tendon of the long head of the biceps passed, was somewhat lacerated, but the tendon itself tvas not ruptured. The head of the os hu- meri was thrown on the inferior costa of the scapula, between it and the ribs; and the axis of its new situation was about an inch and a half Leloiv that of the glenoid cavity. The subject of the second examination was a woman, fifty years of age, who had had dislocation in the axilla five weeks, and seemed to have died of violence us^ in the eorten- sion. The pectoralis major was slightly lacerated, and blood effused; the supra-spinatus was lacerated in several places; and the infra-spinatus and teres minor torn, but less extensively. Some of the fibres of the deltoid, and a few of those of the coraco-brachialis had also suffered; but no7ie of the muscles were so much injured as the supra- spinatus. The capsular ligament had given way in the axilla betiveen the teres minor and sub-scapu- laris muscles; the tendon of the sub-scapularis was torn through at its insertion into the lesser tuber- cle; and the head of the bone rested upon the axillary plexus of nerve^ and the arter3\ Sir Astley Cooper next endeavoured to reduce the bone; but finding the resistance too great, he be- came anxious to ascertain its origin, and divided one muscle after another, cutting through the coraco-brachialis, teres major and minor, and in- fra-spinatus; still the opposition was but little changed. He then conceived, that the deltoid muscle was the cause of failure, and relaxed it by elevating the arm. He next divided the deltoid, and then found the supra-spinatus his great oppo- nent, until he dreiv the arm directly upwards, ivhen the head of the bone glided into the glenoid cavity. His inference is, therefore, that the deltoid and supra-spinatus are the muscles which most power- fully resist the reductioii. He considers also, that the best direction for the extension is that of a right angle with the body, or quite horizontallj'. '• This dissection (says he) explains the reason, Avhy the arm is sometimes easily reduced by raising it suddenly above the horizontal line, and placing the fingers under the head of the bone;" namely, because the muscles of opposition are relaxed. (See Sir Astley Cooper, On Dislocations, p. 386— 389, ed. 4.) To these interesting cases, which illustrate many important points relative to the dislocation down- ward, Mr. Crampton has added two others; one of a recent dislocation downward; the other of a recent dislocation forwards under the pectoral muscle, on the sternal side of the coracoid process. In the first, which occurred in 1808, a labouring man was brought into the county of Dublin In- firmary in a dying state, from injuries received by the fall of a wall upon him. After death, which happened in about a couple of hours, the right shoulder-joint, which was dislocated, was carefully dissected, and a drawing made of it. Ou removing the integuments of the axilla, the celhdar membrane, which was extensively ccchy- moscd, formed a kind of cap, closely embracing the head of the os humeri, which was lodged ou the inferior costa of the scapula, or rather on its neck. The head of tlui lone, in escaping from its socket, had pushed ilie teres minor downwards, and burst through tlte loicer part <f the subscapu- laris muscle, some of the fibres of rvh'wh closely embraced tlie neck of the bone, while the hulk of the muscle was pushed uptuards, and detached from, the inner surface of the scapula. The short head of the biceps and the coraco-brachialis were forced to describe a curve outwards over the neck of the humerus on the sternal side, while the long head of the triceps crossed the neck of the bone ob- liquely on the dorsal side. The tendon of the long head of the biceps remained in its groove; but the sheath, in which it runs, was partially ripped up. The capsular ligament was completely torn from the lower part of the neck of the humerus to the extent of more than half its circumference. The great nerves and blood-vessels were forced to describe a curve backwards by the pressure of the head of the bone, which was jn contact with them. The tendons of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor, were completely torn off from the humerus, carrying with them the surface of the greater tubercle. Mr, Crampton endeavoured to find out what would have caused, in this case, the chief opposition to the reduction, which of course could not be the muscles attached to the greater tubercle, which was broken off; and he found, that keeping the hand in the supine posi- tion created a difficulty by causing the biceps and triceps to get behind the head of the bone. How this position of the radius, however, could in any way affect the triceps, which is inserted into the olecranon, seems to me rather difficult to com- prehend. (See Dublin Journ. of Med. Science, vol. iii. p. 44.) [The not imfrequent coexistence of fracture of the greater tuberosity with dislocation of the shoulder has already been noticed. It appears es- pecially to accompany the dislocation downward and inwcml — intra-coracoid of Malgaigne. This surgeon has dissected six specimens of this dis- location, an account of which is given in his work On Dislocations, p. 513.] Symptoms of the Dislocation forwards.—Intra- coracoid, Nelaton ; Sub-clavicular, Malgaigne.—In addition to the general symptoms of dislocation of the humerus, a luxation forwards has the fol- lowing:— The elbow is separated from the axis of the body, and inclined a little backward ; the humerus seems to be directed towards the middle of the clavicle ; motion backward is not verj' painful, but that forward is infinitely so ; there is a manifest prominence below the clavicle, under the great pectoral muscle ; and the arm is some- what shortened. (Sir A. Cooper, On Disloc(iiio?>.<i, p. 435.) The coracoid process is on the outer side of the head of the bone ; which latter part, being lodged between the clavicle, second rib, and the coracoid process, the limb is even less moveable than the dislocation into the axilla. In the dislocation forwards, tlie acromion is more pointed, and the hollow below it, from the depression of the deltoid nmscle, is much more considerable. Sir A. Cooper also states that the pain attending this accident is slighter than when the head of the os humeri is thrown into the axilla, because the nerves of the axillary plexus are less compressed. [Tliis statement of Sir A. Cooper will scarcely meet with general ac-