ABSORPTION. 20 stimulants, and exercise, if it docs not render the veins less liable to imbibe a poison, will render the blood far less liable to be influenced by it. In reference also to preventing the absorption of erysipelatous miasm by wounds and abrasions, we may point to the expediency of sealing up such injuries from the contact of hospital air, by means of Friar's balsam, collodion, or solution of the chloride of iron ; which are far better adapted as applications to wounds, under such circumstances, than water dressing and other moist applications. We now approach the third and last part of our subject, which is the consideration of the principles by which the surgeon is guided when he desires to promote the absorption of morbid exudations of various kinds, solid or litiuid. Here we may claim the indulgence of our readers for the slight- ness of the sketch which we are able to give ; but it must be remembered that almost half of the practice of physic is involved in these principles. The exudations of which the surgeon may de- sire to promote the absorption may be of infinite variety ; —pure blood; some of the elements of blood, either healthy, or combined with, as we may assume, various noxious substances, or m various states of decomposition; as the serum, fibrine, and pus, which are the products of various forms of in- flammation : — again, they may consist of blood elements which have been developed into areolar tissue, or into bone, in consequence of common inflammation; —or of the various adventitious growths, which result from certain conditions ot the blood, such as tubercular deposits, so called;— the bony and cartilaginous enlargements of gout, rheumatism, or syphilis :—the whole catalogue of tumours, fibroplastic, glandular, enchondroraatous, epithelial, and cancerous ; growths too, which come under the term hypertrophies, and tumours of ^yhlch it is doubtful whether they result from some blood taint or some error in the original scheme of growth, such as wens, n£evus, and the like. This bst is tolerably extensive; but we desire to bring be- fore the mind at one view, all the cases in which absorption of exudation in any stage of develop- ment is desirable. As we have said, it is general principles only that can be treated of here : details will be found in other articles. In this matter, three things have to be consi- dered-—1. The state of the blood; 2. the state of the exudation as to development and vitality, or the capacity therefor ; 3. the state of the parts in which the exudation is situated. The first point is, in most cases, the one im portant thing, as is shown more at length m tlie article Inflammation. Take exudations as a whole, and it will be found that by far the greater number vanish spontaneously, so soon as the blood is purified from the particular element which was the cause of the mischief. But, in the second place, the condition of the exudation must be regarded. Some there aro, which are in such a state from decomposition, that their absorption into the blood would scarcely be desirable if possible. Such are the fluids exuded in carbuncle and unhealthy suppurations, or in which pus has become putrid from admixture with secretions of the bowels, or witli urine. _ For such cases, free evacuation and not absorption is the thin" to be desired. , • i v Some matters there are too, of which the ab- sorption would seem to be clearly against nature. For example, cutaneous cysts filled with epithelium, and commonly called wens, can by no known means be made to absorb their contents; and it would seem manifestly contrary to reason to expect that excreraentitious substances, such as cuticle and sebaceous matter should be taken into the blood again by the very organ whose function it is to eliminate them. Dismissing then these cases, we have to pass in review the far more difficult and complex cases in which it is sought to cause the absorption of exudations which have acquired some degree of development, and have, as it were, made good their footing in the animal economy, and which persist, even though the condition of blood which originally caused them has ceased; or which when once exist- ing have the power of propagating themselves and keeping up a blood infection. It is certain that the organic elements, of which some parts of the body are composed, are not endowed with more than very transitory powers of life. Hair, cuticle, epithelium, and gland cells are incessantly bemg shed and renewed. The vital history of the milk teeth is obvious. _ What the processes of removal and renewal are in bone, we have learned from the before-quoted researches of Mr. Tomes and Mr. De Morgan. And it is jn-o- hahle that the other portions of the framework of the body, including skin, areolar tissue, ligament, basement membrane and sarcolemma of muscle are also subject to similar renewal, although the fact has never been demonstrated so completely as it has been with respect to bone. We speak here of the more inert portions of the body: not of active parts, such as muscle, whose rapid solution and replacement is morally certain. But regarding the time which any portion of the skin or ligament ought normally to last, before it is renewed, we know nothing. Beyond the general fact, too, that abim- dant nourishment and a brisk circulation are favour- able to the maintenance of all tissues, and the converse, we know little, if anything, of spectal means for promoting the growth or the decay of any tissue. We can, by starving the wliole bodj-, or by robbing the food of essential nutritive elements, cause a general waste of fiit, areolar tissue, muscle, and bone. We know further, that m cases ot insufficient nourishment or mal-assimilation, some tissues are prone to degeneration: ni one patient the hair falls, in aiiotlier the teeth decay, in a third the nails cease to be regularly secreted, in another the callus uniting a fracture may dis- appear, in another the cornea or articular carti- lao-es will ulcerate ; but we know little of special means of effecting the increase or decay of any tissue in particular, beyond the general one of in- creasing or decreasing the supply of food, and the general waste by exercise, air, and excretion. W e have no special means, besides, by which we can promote the growth, or cause decay specially, ot hair, cuticle, bone, cartilage, or gland, or ligament. The same is true with regard to adventitious and intrusive growths. We know little of the vital history of any of these ; whether, for example, the mass, which is origin.illy deposited as ameer or enchondroma, remains the san.e throughout its career, or whether it is subjected to a process of absorption and renewal, like normal tissues. We do not know how to eliminate the pabulum of these tumours in the blood, nor do we know what com- plementary substances are capable of neutralising it.