AMPUTATION. In cutting this fliip from within outwards after ■ has separated the joints, (which is the plan uilly recommended,) the operator will find it licult to make it of the exact shape required, : d to give it an even and regular edge. He may avoid this difficulty by making an incision through f integuments of the sole to determine the outline the flap, at the commencement of the operation. To avoid the difficulties connected with the dis- articulation of the second metatarsal bone, Mr. Skey suggests that it should be divided with the Hitting forceps, and its posterior extremity be billowed to remain. {Op. Sure/, p. 376.) M. liaiidens has proposed that the first metatarsal bone only should be separated at the joint, the four others being sawn off in a transverse line at the kvel of the internal cuneiform bone. {Bourghy, Med. Oph: t. i. p. 267.) Any additional length which can be given to the foot will be of the greatest advantage to the patient; it should therefore be understood that in any case which would admit of the preservation of the pos- terior half or posterior third of the metatarsal bones, amputation in the continuity of these bones should always be preferred to their disarticulation.] Amputation through the Mediotarsai, Ar- ticulations, OR Chopart's Operation. The method of removing a part of the foot at the junction of the two halves of the tarsus, or Chopart's operation, is one of considerable merit. It is performed in the nearly parallel articulations of the 03 calcis with the os cuboides, and of the astragalus with the os naviculare. Thus the heel is preserved, on which the patient can afterwards w:ilk. The performance of it is simple. The tour- niquet having been applied, the surgeon is to make a transverse incision through the skin which covers the instep, two inches from the ankle joint. He is to divide the skin, and the extensor tendons and riuisoles, in that situation, so as to expose the con- vexity of the tarsus. He is next to make on each side a small longitudinal incision, which is to begin lielow and a little in front of the malleolus, and is to end at one of the extremities of the first incision. After having formed in this way a flap of integu- ments, he is to let it be drawn upward by the assistant who holds the leg. There is no occasion to dissect and reflect the flap ; for the cellular sub- stance connecting the skin with the subjacent apo- neurosis is so loose, that it can easily be drawn up ve the place where the joint of tlie calcaneum li the cuboides, and that between the astragalus aiiil scaphoides, ought to be opened. The surgeon ivill penetrate the last most easily, particularly by t iking for his guidance the eminence, which indi- < ites the attachment of the tibialis posticus muscle to the inside of the os naviculare. The joint of tlie OS cuboides and os calcis lies pretty nearly in the same transverse line, but rather obliquely for- v.ard. The ligaments having been cut, the foot falls back. The bistoury is then to be put down, ami the straight knife used, with which a flap of the soft parts is to be formed under the tarsus and metatarsus, long enough to admit of being applied to the naked bones so as entirely to cover tliem. It is to be main;aincd in this position with three or four sutures and strips of r^dhesivo plaster, which arc to extend from the hr!cl, over the flap, to the inferior and anterior part of the leg. On the instep, the continuation of the anterior tibial artery will require a ligature ; and in the sole, the internal and exter- nal plantar arteries, in the thickness of the flap of soft parts, must generally be taken up. I have seen several patients who had undergone Chopart's operation, and afterwards walked exceedingly well. A black man was lately shown to me by my friend, Mr. Copland Hutchison, who had performed the operation ; and in reality scarcely any limping was perceptible. I mention these facts, because Dupuy- tren may have expressed himself rather too strongly against Chopart's operation, when he says, that the removal of a part of the tarsus deprives the patient of a point of support essential in walking and stand- ing, and renders the limb nearly useless. He asserts like wise, that, as the attachments of the tibialis an- ticus and tibialis posticus, the antagonists of the gastro cnemius and soleus, are divided, the heel be- comes drawn considerably upwards. [The operation is still practised very much in the manner just described, excepting that the superior incision is commonly made slightly con- vex and not square in shape. It should com- mence on each side near the margins of the sole of the foot and a little in front of the articu- lations. On the inner side of the foot the tu- berosity- of the scaphoid forms a sure guide to the joint between that bone and the astragalus, while on the outer side the joint between the cu- boid bone and the os calcis will be found with tolerable certainty three-quarters of an inch behind the prominence of the fifth metatarsal bone. Should the condition of the parts in the sole not permit the formation of a sufficient flap from that region, part of the covering might be obtained from" the dorsal surface of the foot ; but the hirge flap from the sole is much to be preferred, because it removes the cicatrix from the lower end of the stump, where it is most exposed to injury. Some surgeons saw off a thin slice of the astragalus and os calcis. M. Malgaigne, with more reason, thinks it ad- visable to remove the projecting anterior and exter- nal angle of the os calcis, which rests on the ground when the heel is retracted, and causes painful pres- sure upon the flap. Pie is doubtful even whether, on account of this tendency to retraction, it would not be always preferable to take away the os calcis and leave only the astragalus. {M&d. Oper. p. 310.) The retraction of the heel by the unopposed ac- tion of the muscles of the calf is no doubt one of the principal objections to this operation. Mr. Fergusson relates one case, where he found it ne- cessary, principally on account of this retraction to amputate a second time at the ankle joint. (See Pract. Surg. p. 4!}7.) Nevertheless, excellent stumps do frequently result from Cliopart's opera- tion, and if any tendency to retraction of the heel should become manifest during the progress of the cure, it may be prevented by the subcutaneous section of the tendo achillis. Tins expedient has been frequently resorted to, and with perfect success. The retraction of the heel is spoken of by M. Velpeau as an exceptional occurrence; he states that It did not occur in any of the cases (five in number) operated on by him ; and M. Blandin says that he met with it but once out of the eleven of these aniputatioiis which he has performed. The case above alluded to was also the only instance of painful stump, after Chopart's operation, which Mr. Fergusson has met with. Cases sometimes occur in which the scaphoid bono can be preserved; otliers in which both scaphoid and