669 FEVER. The third form is marked by anomalous nervous symptoms; extreme terror and depression; sudden and death-like faintiugs; sighing, tremors, and cramps—as in the case of Mr. Elcock, who died in forty hours after the receipt of a puncture in dis- section, with no local symptoms, hut with all the violent and alarming excitation of the nervous sys- tem peculiar to hydrophobia. {Travers, op. cit.) The fourth form is the ataxic, or that in which local deposit in various organs defies all calculation, and, too often, all remedy. Extreme prostration: a rapid pulse; a skin dry, or offensively perspiring; a dusky red patch on the cheek; "a dull, glassy eye, encircled in leaden lids;" oppressed and sigh- ing respiration; mind calm, and often wonderfully unconscious of danger. Such are the general symp- toms which attend those pyffimic states, of which rapid effusion into, and disorganisation of, the eye, braio, joints or viscera, are the usual and fatal con- sequences. (See Erysipelas, Abscess, Vymmw, Poisoned Wounds.) The treatment will be found under the articles just quoted.] [III. Hectic. Acute hectic is a constitutional condition for which the surgeon maj' be consulted, and in which he may have to rely on his own sagacity for the detection of the local cause. As we observed in the article Abscess, shivering is an accompaniment of most blood changes. It occurs at the beginning of fever and inflammation, for instance. But there is another kind of shiver- ing, which may occur in the course of an inflam- matory attack,and which indicates that pus is being absorbed from the seat of disease. It is often stated in surgical books that rigors are a sign of suppuration. This is not true in a general sense ; on the contrary, suppuration may occur without rigors; but they occur when the pus under certain circumstances, not having vent, is absorbed into the blood; and they constitute the first state of acute hectic. We define, then, the acute hectic, to be a fever having daily paroxysms, and depending on the absorption of decomposing pus. The symptoms are usually these. A patient, who has some concealed abscess, or who has an abscess which is not opened, or which if opened does not thoroughly discharge itself, is seized with violent shivering, exactly resembling, and probably quite as severe as the cold stage of an ague. The most remarkable case which the writer ever saw is that of a lady with ovarian disease of tliirty years' duration, who was suddenly seized with shivering, the commencement of a fatal illness; BO severe was it that she was quite unable to move fronr her chair to the other side of the room to ring for assistance. It is attended with blueness of the nails, shrinking of the fingers and all the other signs of ague. To this follows a hot fit, with flushing, headache, and thirst: and to this, a sweating fit; the hair and skin and bed- clothes being soaked in a clammy, offensive perspir- ation, which goes off, leaving symptoms of cx- tronic debility. The time at which the writer has observed these symptoms to come on, has been from four to six r.M.; and tliey last from eight to ten hours in well marked cases. During the day, paleness, and quickness of the pulse and languor remain. If the case goes on, tho next symptom is n cleaning of the tongue, the epithelium of which becomes thin, so that it looks" like a dog's tongue, or even red- der. To this follows a tendency to diarrhcfia; and frequently very decided attacks of that malady, with mucous and bloody evacuations. Meanwhile the appetite fails: sleep is lost: the hair falls off, emaciation increases, and unless the local cause be removed, the patient either passes into the state we call the Typhoid-lihe or Sulphide-qf-Ammonium- in-ihe-blood-siage, or else sinks exhausted. That these symptoms arise from the absorption of deleterious matter from abscesses and the like, is evident, partly from the facts of the case and from analogy; partly from the instant relief afforded when the abscess is opened, or other means taken to remove the cause. (See Case, Art. Abscess, p. 8.) Whenever such symptoms present themselves, therefore, the surgeon is bound to make the most diligent scrutiny for some local cause which can give rise to them. Nevertheless, Hunter and his followers denied that the absorption of pus gave rise to hectic; be- cause, said they, much pus is absorbed without hectic. " If," he says, " the absorption of matter always produced the symptoms above described, how could any patient who has a large sore pos- sibly escape hectic ? for there is no reason to sup- pose that one sore can absorb more readily than another. If absorbed matter occasioned such vio- lent effects as have been commonly ascribed to it, whj' does not venereal matter do the same.^ We often know that absorption is going on, by the progress of buboes. A large one, just on the point of bursting, has been known to be absorbed, in consequence of a few days' sea-sickness. The person continued at sea for four-and-twenty days afterwards; yet no hectic symptoms followed, but only the specific constitutional effects, which were of a very different description." To this the reply is simple. It is not pretended that the absorption of pus simplicitcr will cause hectic ; but of pus, and of other substances in cer- tain states of decay* This is well illustrated by a case put by Hunter himself. He says that in large chronic abscesses the hectic seldom comes on until after they have been opened, although they may have been forming matter for months. But in such cases the disposition often comes on soon after opening. Tho fact is, that after the opening of a large and incurable abscess absorption of matter may take place, which has been partially decomposed by exposure; and which may produce hectic now, though not in its undecomposed state. The Hunterian theory was that hectic depends on the parts being stimulated to produce an effect which is beyond their powers; that this stimulus is sooner or later in taking eflToct, in diifcront cases, and that the constitution becomes afll>ctcd by it: " Tho universal sympathy with a disease whicli gives the irritation of being incurable;" " tlie constitution irritated with an incurable disease-" or " harassed with a disease where the parts have no power, or, what is more prohablo, have no dis- position to produce a salutary inflammation and suppuration." These are various explications, in which the solidism of Hunter appears conspicu- ously. Common or Chronic Hectic. Under this term wo arc obliged to includo almost all tho con-