''^^ FRACTURE, ward, and forward, where it is to be kept with a roller. Ihe fragment is also to be kept backward as much as possible Avith compresses and a roller, and the arm is to be supported in a sling. In other respects the danger of fractures of the scapula depends less upon the solution of continuity in the bone than the contusion of the soft parts or injury of the thoracic viscera. However, when the fracture is comminuted and the splinters are ■ forced into the subscapularis muscle, abscesses may form under the bone, and, according to Boyer require a perforation to be made in it {Mal.Cldr. t. iii. p. 165), a proceeding which I cannot bring myself to think would ever be judicious, as making a depending opening in the soft parts must be far better practice. In military surgery the scapula is often injured by sabre-cuts ; but, as Dr. Hennen remarks, this bone, when preserved from motion, is found in these cases to unite with great readi- ness and without future inconvenience. (Fri?ici- ples of Militari/ Surgery, p. 48, ed. 2.) 2. Fracticre of the nech of the scapula.—[Tliis is understood to mean fracture of the narrow part of the bone opposite the notch in the superior costa, so that tlie coracoid process with the glenoid cavity is separated from the rest of the bone.] When this part of the scapula is fractured, the weight of the arm makes it drop down so consi derably as to give the appearance of a dislocation but the facility of lifting the humerus upward, th crepitus, and the falling of the limb downward again immediately it is unsupported, are circum- stances clearly marking that the case is not a dis location. According to Sir Astley Cooper, the crepitus is best perceived through the medium of the coracoid process. The degree in which the glenoid cavity and the head of the humerus de Bcend, he observes, depends very much upon whether the ligaments between the under part of the spine of the scapula and the glenoid cavity are lacerated or not. (On Dislocations, t^-c. p. 459.) [The descent of the glenoid cavity towards the axilla must also depend very much on the rupture of the coraco-clavicular ligaments, witliout which it can scarcely take place to any appreciable extent. This accident is extremely rare, so much so that some surgeons, among whom may be mentioned Mr. South, doubt that it ever occurs. (See Trans- latio7i of Chelius, vol. i. p. 549.) Sir A. Cooper, however, relates two cases which do not appear to admit of any doubt, and a dissection by Duverney has proved the possibility of its occur- rence. Recently also Mr. Pirrie speaks of having seen tliree cases in which "all the sj'mptoms were exceedingly well marked." {Principles a7id Fmc- tice ofSuryery, p. 15C.)] The treatment of a fracture of the neck of the scapula consists in keeping the head of tiie os humeri outwards by means of a thick cushion in the axilla, in keeping the glenoid cavity and arm raised with a sling, and in preventing all motion of the arm by binding it to the trunk with a roller. In some of these cases tlie apparatus proposed by Mr. Earle might be useful. (Pnwt. Ohs. in Surq. 1823.) _ Sonietimcs great pain and a crepitus are expe- rienced on moving the shoulder joint after an accident and yet tiie spine, the neck of the scapula, «na all the above parts are not broken. In this circumstance it is to be suspected either that a small portion of the head of the os brachii, or a little piece of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, is broken off, which latter occurrence, I think is not very uncommon. ' [M. Malgaigne is of opinion that the symptoms of fracture of the neck of the scapula, as described Oy bir A. Cooper, are more likely to be caused by fracture of a portion of the glenoid cavity, accom- panied by dislocation downwards into the axilla, (bee Traite des Fractures, S,-c. t. ii. p. 551.)] 3. Fracture of tJie coracoidprocess.— lTUsita.!:-- tuie 13 ahvays caused by direct violence, and there-- lore IS likely to be accompanied by severe contusion i ot the soft parts, tlie swelling from which may obscure the nature of the injury. Indeed, the mischief done to the soft parts is often of more importance than the fracture, as in the case related by Boyer, which terminated fatallj', and which has been already referred to. When the coracoid process is fractured, the pec- toralis minor, coraco-brachialis, and short head of the biceps concur in drawing it forward and down- ward, so that its apex will generally be felt lower down than on the sound side, and it may be made to move while the rest of the scapula is fixed. If, however, the fracture be at the root of the process] the displacement may be less evident, as it may remain attached to the under surface of the clavicle by the coraco-clavicular ligaments, and unless these fibres are ruptured when the fracture takes place. Its descent may be prevented. The attempts of the patient to move his arm will occasion severe pain.] Treatment.—When the coracoid process is frac- tured, the muscles attached to it are to be relaxed by bringing the arm forward towards the breast and confining it there in a sling, while the shoulder IS kept downward and forwai'd, and a compress confined just under the broken part with a roller. [Union by ligamentous substance is all that can be expected.] 4. Fracture of tlie acromion is most commonly produced by a blow or fall on the shoulder. The fractm-e is almost always transverse, and may occur either towards tlie apex or base of the acro- mion. The outer fragment is drawn downward by the weight of the arm and the contraction of the deltoid muscle, while the trapezius and levator scapulas draw the rest of the bone upward and backward. Tlie roundness of the injured shoulder is diminished, and part of the attachment of the del- toid being broken olF, the head of the os humeri sinks towards the axilla as f;u' as the capsular ligament will permit. [If the fracture be very near the root of the process, the depression will be greater, for then the clavicle will fall as well, and allow the whole anterior part of the muscle to be displaced down- wards. {Lonsdale, On Fractures, ^p. 201.)] On tracing the acromion from llie Rpine of the scapula to the clavicle, the surgeon will feel a de- pression just at their junction. The distance from the sternal end of the clavicle to tiie extremity of the shoulder is lessened. The natural form of the shoulder may be restored by raising the arm by the elbow, but "the deformity returns immediately the anil is sufibrcd to fill .again. The accident may be distinguiclied from a di-location, if the surgeon raise