136 ANTESTHESU. generally not even then, unless there is an incli- nation for it. Even medicine, such as an opiate, is better delayed for an hour or so, except when there is an urgent necessity for giving it sooner. When a patient is faint from loss ol' blood of course this rule must be disregarded, and wine or brandy may be given, and repeated if it be vomited. When vomiting occurs, it most usually takes place after the chloroform is discontinued, and whilst its eifects are passing off. It often occurs before the patient is quite conscious, and he does not know it imless he is told. In a few cases, in which there is a good deal of food in the stomach, vomiting comes on before the operation is concluded, and now and then even before it is commenced. When vomiting comes on during an operation, it is some- times difficult to prevent the patient from awaldng; but this can generally be accomplished by wiping the mouth, and resuming the inhalation as soon as the effort of vomiting is over. In many cases the sickness does not come on till the patient awakes, but the sickness really due to chloroform probably always begins within an hour or two, or, at the furthest, just after the first food which is taken. When sickness did not occur till the following day the writer has always found that an opiate had been taken, or, at least, that there was some other cause to which it was probably due. Several cases have occurred in which the sickness has lasted for two or three days in spite of the usual remedies ; but these cases form a small portion of the whole number in which chloroform is admin- istered, and they have chiefly happened in persons who were subject to attacks of vomiting from slight causes. The sickness caused by chloroform usually sub- sides as soon as the stomach is emptied by vomit- ing. It is therefore advisable not to do anything for it for an hour or so; but when it continues beyond this period a little cold brandy and water removes it in most cases. When this remedy has failed, a dose of opium has been found to relieve the sickness. Effervescing draughts have not ap- peared to be of much service, and draughts of warm water seem to make the sickness worse. It is not advisable for the patient to make any effoit, but only to vomit if obliged to do so. Chloroform is occasionally followed by faintness and depression, especially if the patient remains in the sitting posture, and is liable to faintness at other times. The horizontal position is the treat- ment for this, with ammonia to the nostrils and wine or brandy if the faintness does not presently subside. Hysterical symptoms sometimes come on in female patients as the effects of chloroform are subsiding, and the writer has on two occasions met with them in the male. These symptoms nearly always pass off spontaneously within half an hour. If they do not, they must be treated on the ordinary principles. Hysteria was probably quite as frequent and severe an attendant on ope- rations when they had to be submitted to without the aid of anajsthetics as at present. If chloroform, when administered in the usual way, were continued in the disregard of the symp- toms death would undoubtedly be the result; and some persons who have lost their lives by incau- tiously inhaling it, when no one was near to watch its effects, have probably expired from its being continued too long ; but on examining the detnils of the recorded deaths from chloroform, during its administration for surgical operations, it will be found that, in every case, the dangerous symptoms, if not the actiuil death of the patient, came on suddenly, and without previous warning. There is in fact no reason to conclude that any of these accidents occurred from mistaking, or overlooking, the symptoms which indicate that it should be left off', when it is administered throughout in a safe and gradual manner. Experiments on dogs, cats, and other domestic animals, show that chloroform may cause death in two very distinct modes ; and as these animals are acted on by chloroform precisely in the same way as the human being, in all those stages and degrees of its influence which can be induced without danger, it may safely be concluded that, when they .are killed in such a manner that the mode of dying exactly resembles that which occurs in the accidents to the human subject, the precise cause of death is the same. When animals are made to breathe air containing four or five per cent, of its volume of vapour of chloroform until they are killed, death takes place slowly and gradually. They first become gradually insensible, and then deeply so ; afterwards the breathing becomes em- barrassed, and it ceases fifteen or twenty minutes after the beginning of the experiment. The heart continues to beat very distinctly for one or two, and sometimes three minutes after the breathing has ceased ; and its action becomes suspended, as in asphyxia, by privation of air, on account of the absence of the respiration, and not from the direct action of the chloroform. During this interval, whilst the heart is still beating, the animal can be easily restored by artificial respiration, and, more- over, there are often two or three gasping inspira- tions at the moment when the heart is ceasing to beat, which generally have the eft'ect of restoring its action, and bringing about the recovery of the animal, if the chloroform have been withdrawn. When, on the contrary, the animals mentioned above are made to breathe air containing eight or ten per cent., or upwards, of chloroform, death takes place, in nearly all cases, very suddenly, and the action of the heart does not swvive the breath- ing. The chloroform is absorbed into the blood as it passes through the lungs, in such quantity that it acts directly on the heart, which ceases to beat at the same moment as the breathing ceases, or, in a few cases, even before the breathing. It is by this last of the two modes of death that the accidents from chloroform have occiurred. In no recorded instance has the pulse survived the respiration, whilst in several cases it has ceased before the breathing; and as regards the strength of the vapour which was being inhaled just belore the accidents happened, it may in every case have been as much as eight or ten per cent, in propor- tion to the air. Attention has rarely, if ever, been directed to this point in cases in which accidents have occurred, although great care and attention have been generally employed. Many of tUe deaths from chloroform took place before the ope- ration was begun, several during its performance, and a few just when it was completed, in some of the accidents which occurred within the first two or three vears after chloroform was introducea the patients died suddenly, within half a minute after commencing to inhale, having taken only a few inspirations.