GUNSHOT WOUNDS. The chemical composition of granulations is said to be albuminous, like that of lymph and pus, pass- ing into the gelatinous as it becomes more fully de- veloped into skin and areolar tissue. They co'nsti tute, as it were, a transition stage ; and when their surface is converted into epithelium, their function 18 discharged, their vessels shrink, and they lose their identity in the scar or cicatrix which succeeds. The surface of granulations, and the exudation which they yield, instead of healing or becoming developed into cuticle, sometimes remains in a per'* the condition known membrane of sinus, as indolent ulcer, lining ^ ^ „w.«,o, &c. During any period of weakness, and espe- cially at the approach of death, they are apt to break up into a sanious liquid, or, in the old phraseology, to ulcerate afresh. Granulating surfaces readily cohere together ; thus the opposite portions of a wound whicli have not united by the first intention, and which are covered with healthy granulations, will often unite by organic union, when these granulating surfaces are applied one to the other and so kept. This is called healing by the second intention, or by the inosculation of granulations.] R, Druitt. GUNSHOT WOUNDS AND INJURIES receive their name from the manner in which they are produced, being generally caused by hard, ob- tuse, metallic bodies, projected from cannons, mus- ket3,_ or other species of firearm. With such injuries, it is also usual to comprehend a variety of dreadful accidents arising from the explosion of shells, or the violence with which pieces of stones from ramparts, or splinters of wood on board ship, are driven about. Gunshot wounds are the most considerable of the contused kind ; and what is to be said of them will apply, more or less, to all con- tused wounds, according to the degree of contusion. The effects of a gunshot wound differ so materially in different men, and the appearances are so various, according to the nature of the part wounded, and the greater or lesser force with which it has been struck, that no invariable train of symptoms can be laid down as its necessary concomitants. If a musket or pistol-ball has struck a fleshy part, without injuring any material blood-vessel, we see a hole about the size of, or smaller than, the bullet itself, with a more or less discoloured lip, forced inwards ; and, if it has passed through the parts, we find an everted, less livid, more ragged, and larger orifice at the point of its exit. The hajmor- rhage is in this case verj' slight, and the pain may be inconsiderable, insomuch that, in many instances, the wounded man is not aware of his having re- ceived any injury, [It is not, however, always practically an easy matter to distinguish tlie wound of entrance from that made by the escape of the ball, by the cha- racter of the edges alone. The margins of the wound at the point of entrance are not in every, nor even in the majority of the cases inverted, nnr are those of the point of exit of the bullet always everted. If the speed of the ball lias been swift, especially if it be a conical one, and no bone has been struck so as to impede the velocity of the missile, then there is but little characteristic dif- ference either in the size or appearance of tlie two wounds. The margins of the escape wound are sometimes undermined when produced by a bullet having little original velocity, or from having had its velocity diminished by contact -Witt, ot transmission through, bone ; this is due to the natural resistance or toughness of the skin, yieldinir or being lifted up by the baU before it is actually torn, and it is this peculiar elasticity and toughness of the integument which causes these projectiles to be often arrested in their flight when nearly spent; so that it is a very common occurrence to have to cut doivn upon and extract balls, lying immediately beneath the skin, on the side of the limb opposite or nearly opposite to the point of entrance.] If the ball has torn a large vessel, or nerve, the hasmorrhage will generally be profuse, or the pain of the wound severe, and the power of the part lost. Some men will have a limb carried off, or shattered to pieces by a cannon-ball, without exhibiting the slightest symptoms of mental or corporeal agitation; nay, even without being conscious of the occurrence; and when they are, they will coolly argue on the pro- bable result of the injury; while a deadly paleness, instant vomiting, profuse perspiration, and universal tremor, will seize another on the receipt of a slight flesh viround. This tremor, which has been so much talked of, and which to an inexperienced eye is really terrifying, is soon relieved by a mouthful of wine or spirits, or by an opiate ; but, above all, by the tenderness and sympathising manner of the surgeon, and his assurance of the patient's safety." (See HennerCs Principles of Mil. Surgery, p. 33, edit. 3.) On the other hand it is correctly noticed by Mr. Guthrie, that the continuance of the constitutional alarm, or shock, ought to excite great suspicion of serious injury; and when wounds have been re- ceived in such situations, or bear such appearances, as render it doubtful whether any parts of vital im- portance have been injured, or not, the man- ner in which the constitutional perturbation lasts may be assumed as evidence of the fact, when other symptoms more indicative of the injury are wanting; and, under all such circumstances, a ver}' cautious prognosis should be delivered. {Commen- taries of Surgery, p. 3, ed. 6.) Respecting the general tendency of gunshot wounds not to bleed copiously, unless large vessels be injured, it is a fact which necessarilj' depends upon the degree of contusion usually attending these injuries. But it is also true, as the preceding author has stated, that, although some gunshot wounds bleed but little at first, there is in the greater number of cases more or less of blood; and in wounds of vascular parts, like the face and u'^ck, the quantity lost is olten considerable, though the main arterial branches maj' not be injured. {Op. cit. p. 1, ed. 6.) In gunshot wounds another circumstance is ob- served, which is often remarked in other cases, viz., when a large artery is partial!}' divided, the bleed- ing is more profuse and dangerous than when the vessel is completely severed, and the hajinorrhngc, if not repressed by a tourniquet or other means, will often continue until the patient dies. Thus Mr. Guthrie speaks of three cases, in which life was lost from wounds of the femoral, brachial, and carotid arteries, no effectual means of stopping the haemorrhage having been adopted. In 18.'-I0, a young man, at the attack on the Hotel de Ville, in Paris, received a ball in the upper and inner part of the right thigh, and the femoral artery was wounded; he was conveyed to the Hdtel-Dieu, but lost BO much blood in the streets that, when he