ANEURISM. 161 cylindruidiim (comprising aneuriam by anastomosis and erectile tumors) ; and, lastly, the aueufisma cp-soideum, or the varLv arierialis of Diipuytren ; a rarer affection, in which the arteries undergo very siraihir changes to those exhibited in varicous veins. {Breschcl in Mini. Chir. stir differciites Especes d''Aneurysmes, 4to. Paris, 1834.) Lisfranc also admits, with all the best modern surgeons, the reality of aneurism accompanied by dilatation of all the coats of the arteries. {De I'Obliteration des Aritres dans les Aiieurisme.s, p. 11.) [Pathologists at present seem to incline to the opinion, that although many of the so-called true aneurisms may not be so in reality, yet that there can be no doubt that, in their early stages at least, many aneurisms are of the true kind. Dr. Peacock has pointed out, that small digital pouches are often found springing from the walls of some of the large arteries, through the whole extent of which the e.xternal, middle, and internal coats can be demonstrated to exist. After an aneurism has attained a certain size, its coats become so fused together, and so incorporated with the neighbouring tissues, that the true juncture cannot be made out. For a true aneurism to exist, I am of opinion that two conditions are necessary : first, tliat the tumor be small ; second, that the mouth of the sac be large. I cannot conceive a large aneurism with a small mouth to be a true one, for as the mouth of the sac corresponds exactly in size to that portion of the arterial coats that has been dilated, it is not easy to understand how a large sac can be dilated out of a small segment of the wall of the artery, though there be some outgrowth of this, as in tubular aneurism.] When these two different affections are situated in the thora.x, or abdomen, it is impossible to dis- criminate them from each other before death. The symptoms, occasioned by the pressure of the tu- mor on the viscera must be nearly the same, whether caused by a morbid dilatation, or an aneurism. The means for retarding their fatal termination is also the same in both forms of the disease. With regard to the possibility of cure, however, Scarpa says, that there is great differ- ence ; for, when the case is an internal aneurism, there may be some slight hope of a radical cure by the efforts of nature and art, which hope can never be entertained in a case of morbid dilatation ; a fact which is accounted for by no laminated coa- gula being deposited in the latter disease. (0« Atieitrism, transl. by Wishart, p. 124, cd. 2.) A great deal of the latter statement coincides with tlie observations of Mr. Hodgson, who particularly notices, that he has never met with iamellated coagnla in such sacs as consist either in a general or partial dilatation of the coats of the vessel. {On Diseases of Arteries, ^-e. p. 82.) Whether this ever takes place in such cases may still be a ques- tion, because, if Professor Ntegelo has given a correct description of the aneurism of the abdo- minal aorta, already mentioned — which aneurism was of large size, and consisted of a dilatation of all the coats of the vessel— there was in this rare example a large quantity of these layers of coagu- lated blood. Yet, whether the Professor actually means the fihrine arranged in laminic, or only common coagulated blood, which, as every one knows, may be. found either in the cysts of dilated or of ruptured arteries, may admit of doubt. The statement, therefore, made by Hodgson and Scarpa, and which agrees with the later observations of Breschet (see l\Iein. CIdr. sur diffirentes Es- peces d'Aneurismes, p. 70), may not be contrary to what was really seen by Nffigele and Acker- mann. The following case, however, observed by Laennec, and quoted by a modern writer, must (if correctly reported) afford not only an unequi- vocal specimen of aneurism by dilatation of all the coats of the aorta, but of laminated coagula within its cavity. " In homine enim, qui repente sub atrocissimis pectoris doloribus corruit, praeter aortam adscendentem in aneurysma ita expansam, ut neonati infantis caput Eequaret, cystidem aneu- rysmaticara immediate supra arteriae coeliacss ortnm magnitudine nucis juglandis invenit, quae lucu- ienter ostendit sinum communicantem cum arterise cylindro per foramen magnitudine am3'gdalae, diametro totius arteriee illo loco non mutato. Sac- cus hie cultro anatoraico accurate ac subtiliter aubjectus, eamdem structuram, easdem ostendit membranas, quibus gaudebat arteria e cujus latere excreverat ; caeterum massis grumosis sive fibrosis erat iniplelus. Inde igitur patet, hoc aneurysma sacciforme et laterali et partiali quidem tunicarum aortffi dilatatione ortum esse." {J. H. G. Ehr- hardt, De Aneurysmate Aortce, p. 13, 4to. Lips. 1820.) ' ' i- Certainlj', it seems difficult to explain in what the difference consists, which prevails between the state of the internal coat, in preternatural dilata- tion, and in true aneurism, so that the blood does not coagulate in the former, while it is deposited in concentric layers in the latter. (See Guthrie, On Dis. of (he Arteries, p. 85.) Perhaps, says the latter gentleman, there is not at a late period any difference between a preternatural dilatation or bulging on one side of an artery, and a true aneu- rism ; a state remarkably well shown in one of the preparations in the College Museum, No. 411 H.; and he adds, " At all events, preternatural dilata- tions of a large size, and departing from the course of the vessel from which they arise, do generally lose their distinguishing character of freedom from concentric layers of coagula, so that the distinction between them, under these circumstances, is lost;" unless we regard it, with Scarpa, as essentially founded on the existence of fissures in the internal coat in the aneurism, and of the absence of such change in the simple dilatation. [The reason why coagulum is not deposited in a preternatural dilatation of an artery, would appear to be, that in no part of the tumor is the blood at rest or out of the current of the circula- tion, so as to allow it time to deposit its fibrine- whereas, in a sacculated aneurism,it is withdrawn from the general circulation, and thus has time for a coagulum to form.] From what has been stated then, it appears that there is only one principal point of difference between Scarpa and other writers ; and this re- solves itself into the question, whether a dilatation of an artery, arising at one particular side of the vessel, and hned by its internal coat, ought not to lie regarded as an aneurism, because its communi- cation with the tubo of the artery is more capacious than what exists in other aneurisms, where the inner coat has given way, and because it rarely (perhaps never) contains laminated coagula, unless fissures hapjien to exist at some points of the inner arterial tunic thus expanded ? The greater number of aneurisms increase gra- I. 4