242 Dublin Medical Press, June 1842 to the present time, bv Button, Cussack, liellinsham, Tufnell, and many other Uublin Surgeons; and especially Observations on Aneurism by Ur. Bellingham, Lond. 18-17. Cnsp, Diseases of the Blood-vessels, Lond. 1847. Ericlisen, Observations on Aneurism,Syiie\\ham Society. Brocn, Sur les Andvrismes, Paris, 1855. Morris, on the Result of Ligature of Arteries, in American Journal of Medical Science. Erichsen, in Science and Art of Surgery, Loud. 1857—^J-<., Aneurism. ANKYLOSIS, [from a7/ci;A7), a thong orhand, or ayK6hos, crooked, a term used to describe the condition of an articulation, which either no longer permits the free exercise of all its movements, or is attended with complete immohility. The first Greek derivation sufficiently well ilhistrates the nature of the uniting medium between the ends of the bones in the most common form of ankylosis; whilst the second, as M. Cloquet observes, lias no doubt been chosen, from the fact that ankylosed limbs are generally found in a state of permanent flexion ; a position chosen by the patient as the most easy, being that in which the ligaments are least extended, and the synovial surfaces least compressed during the severity of the jomt aifection, which usually precedes ankylosis. True or complete ankylosis signifies the fixed and motionless state of a joint, resulting from any of the conditions hereinafter explained.] False or incomplete ankylosis denotes the impairment of mo- tion, or very considerable' rigidity, in an orbicular, or ginglj-moid joint, occasioned by adhesions of one synovial surface to the other, or by a thickening of the soft parts on the outside of the joint. [Perhaps it would be better to adopt the definition of M. Houel, who confines the term ankylosis to the com- pletely immovable cases,while the others are grouped together under the term " articular rigidity:'] By Mr. Mayo, ankylosis is divided into osseous, carti- laginous, and mixed, according as the articular surfaces happen to be united through the medium of bone, of cartilage, or of both these substances together. (See Outlines o/Human Pathology, p. 72.) Of course, this last classification is not intended to comprise some of the varieties of false ankylosis. True ankylosis, then, may be said to denote the complete loss of motion, either m the kind of joint termed diartlirosis, where the ends of the bones are tipped with cartilage, and fur- nished with a capsular ligament, or ni the other less moveable sort of joint, termed synarthrosis, where the hones are united by an intervening layer of fibro-cartilage, and the articulation is strengthened externally by ligamentous bands. The latter kind of joint can hardly be said to be susceptible of false ankylosis ; for it naturally lias only a very slight degree of motiou,_ which re- quires a true ankylosis for its interruption. Ankylosis is more common in the ginglymoid articulations than others ; though sometimes met with in every description of joint. In general, only one joint is ankylosed in the same individual; but sometimes several articulations are the seat of ankylosis, and rare instances are recorded, in which every joint in the body was in this state. Thus, Bernard Conner describes an example of a general ankylosis of all the bones of the human body. (ZJe siupendo Ossium Coalitu.) The ])ai ti- culars of a child, twc-nty-three months old, alllicted with universal ankylosis, are given in Vlliat. dc VAcad. des Sciences, an. 1716. In old ago, anky- losis in certain parts of the skeleton is a natural change ; and in this period of life, it is common to ANKYLOSIS. find the heads of the ribs ankylosed to the bodies of the vcrtebraj, or the tubercles to the transverse processes, the vertebra; to one another, the ensi- forra cartilage to the sternum, &c. Ankylosis, strictly speaking, is not a disease itself, but only an ettect or consequence of other aifections, and it may follow all those which de- stroy any one of the conditions, without which the motion of a joint is necessarily interrupted either permanently or for a very considerable time. The author of the article Ankylosis, in the Encyclopedie Methodique, refers to a preparation, in which the femur is so ankylosed with the tibia and patella, that both the compact and spongy substances of these bones appear to be common to all of them, without any line of separation being discernible between them ; [and the pathological museums of the present day afford many specimens of the kind]. Eustachius,Columbo, and Cruveilhier, have each seen an ankylosis of the lower jaw. Cru- veilhier has given the particulars of an ankylosis of one of the articulations of the lower jaw in a very old woman. It commenced in her child- hood, from a blow on the side of the face. From the engraving of the parts, it appears that the condyle and glenoid cavity were completely consolidated and united by osseous matter. Referring to ankylosis in general, we may ob- serve with M. Sanson, that its causes are numerous; inasmuch as every circumstance capable of im- pairing the articular surfaces, stopping the synovial secretion, lessening the suppleness of the ligaments, or of the soft parts around the joint, or of inter- fering with the action of the muscles, or the play of the tendons, may hinder the articular surfaces, more or less, from moving upon one another. One thing, almost essential to the production of ankylosis, is the part being kept motionless ; and, as M. Sanson well observes, this condition has such influence, that it will of itself bring on the changes which terminate in a joint becoming in- capable of resuming its functions, in consequence of true or false ankylosis. An illustration _ot this fact is afl:brded by what happens to the Indian Fa- kirs, who, by way of religious penance, sometin. condemn themselves to continue motionless in cer- tain attitudes for several years, and whose limbs at the expiration of the term are ankylosed m the posture in which they happen to have been so long maintained. The same fact is exemplified in per- sons who have met with fractures of their limbs ; for, in consequence of the motionless state in which the part is kept to promote union of the broken bones, the synovial secretion is dimmished, and the fibrous capsules and ligaments of the joint a 1 acquire a rigidity, in which the surrounding cel- lular tissue participates. The sheaths of t je ten- dons are also no longer duly lubricated. All these circumstances make opposition to the free action ct the muscles, which, being themselves weakened l y protracted inactivity, are incapable of overcomiiv^ the resist;mce to the motion ut the joint. [H'e lue lesisuuicc , . I i„„;„ paralytic also alford cases ol complete ankj losi , with entire disappearance, in rare instances, of all trace of the former joint, and that without ap r - ciable symptoms of inilammation. On the same nclple of'a long-continued motionless ^o^^ lu-ticulation, ankylosis may be >>«l"ced as a conn>l. cation and sequel of the contracted state, or lesion of some particular muscle, or tendon, oi the growth of various tumors near the joint, ex-