CATARACT, Prilfmg dor Keralonyxis, einer Melhodc den gramii Staar dureh dio Tloiiilmd zu redbtire^i, Oder zuzerslucMr. nehsl erliiuicrndeji Operations, gescMcldm. Gottingen, 18] 1, See i\\io Conradi, in Arnemann's Magazin, b. i. p. 95, 1791. Gleize. Nouvelles Obs. Pratiques surles Mal<;tdies de I'CEil, p. no, 1812. G. II. Buchhom's Diss, de Ke- raloni/,mle, Halre, 1811. Of Congenital Cataract. I sLall not stop here to inquire wliether tlie expression congenital cataract is used with strict propriety ; but the term is reprobated by Beer as being in general incorrectly applied. So much lias been already said in a preceding section of this article concerning the propriety and striking advantages of operating for the ca- taracts of children, that to expatiate further upon this point would be a mere waste of time. We have noticed the case, which Scarpa terms the primnr?/ memlranous cataract, and which is mentioned by that distinguished professor, as being met with in children, or young people, under the age of twentj', the substance of the crystalline itself being almost entirely absorbed, while the capsule is left in an opaque state, including, at most, only a small nucleus, not larger than a pin's head. This disease is described by Scarpa as being exceedingly rare, and characterised by a certain transparency and similitude to a cobweb ; by a whitish opaque point, either at its centre or circumference, and by a streaked and reticulated appearance. Now, this example, which is repre- sented by Scarpa as rare, appears from the experience of Mr. Saunders, to be by no means un- common ; since at the London Infirmary for dis- eases of the eye, it was found, that the majority of congenital cataracts were capsular or membranous. We learn from Mr. Saunders's publication, that, in the congenital cataract, after the crystalline lens has been converted into an opaque substance, it is gradually absorbed; and, in proportion to the progress of absorption, the anterior lamella of the capsule approaches the posterior, until they form one membrane, which is white, opaque, and very elastic. This process is commonly completed long before the eighth year, and the operator will now find a substance, which he will in vain en deavour either to extract or depress. But there is one form of the congenital cataract, in which the absorption of the lens does not proceed, viz. when the centre of the lens is opaque, and its circum- ference is perfectly transparent. Should the capsule and lens be penetrated, however, with any instrument, the opacity soon becomes complete, and from this moment the substance of the lens begins to be absorbed. According to the experience of Mr. Saunders in congenital cataract, the lens may be either solid, soft, or fluid, but more frequently it is partially or completely absorbed, and the cataract is capsular. [Mr. Dixon considers that there are four well- marked forms of congenital cataract. fOp. cit. 204.)] ^ The following table of forty-four cases is given in Mr. Saunders's work, for the purpose of show- ing in what proportion each species of cataract has been found to prevail in congenital cases: — Solid opaque lens, with or without opacity of the capsule. Three single, two double cataracts 5 - 2 - 1 Solid lens, opaque in the centre, transparent in the circumference, with capsule in the same state. Five double - - . . .5 Soft opaque lens, with or without opacity of the capsule. Two single, two double- . .4 Soft opaque lens, with solid nucleus. One single, two double 3 Soft opaque lens, with dotted capsule, the spots white, the spaces transparent. Two double - 2 Fluid cataract, with opacity of the capsule. Two single - - . . . .9 Fluid cataract, with opacity of the capsule, and closed pupil. Two double - - . .2 Opaque and thickened capsule, the lens being completely absorbed, or the remains of it being thin and squamose. Six single, twelve double 18 Opaque and thickened capsule, with only a very small nucleus of the lens unabsorbed in the centre. Two single Opaque and thickened capsule in the centre, remains of the lens in the circumference, One double - . - . Here the corresponding character of congenital cataracts in the eyes of each individual is exhibited by the number of double cases, and we are inform- ed that the same character was preserved in the cataracts of several children of the same family. {Saunders, On Diseases of the Eye, edit, ly Dr i^'an-e, pp. 135, 136.) Mr._ Lawrence observes, that congenital cata- ract " is sometimes lenticular, but more frequently capsulo-lenticular. The lens is generally opaque throughout ; generally of its natural consistence, which is gelatinous, sometimes softer, or even fluid, but never hard. After losing its transparency, the crystalline lens frequently undergoes absorption: hence, we often find it lessened, reduced to a small fragment, or as thin as a wafer." {On Dis. of the Exjc, p. 443.) With reference to the statement, that a congenital cataract is never hard, I may mention that Mr. Alexander, this autumn (1836), in the presence of Mr. Bainbridge of Tooting and myself, extracted from the eye of a young woman, aged eighteen, who had congenital cataracts, a lens, wlvich was as hard as that of the eye of a boiled mackerel. Another gentleman of great experience in this subject believes, that, when lenticular cataract occurs in very early life, it is always soft, unless the lens be the seat of cretaceous, or osseous deposition. (See Middlemore, On Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 94.) Congenital cataract appears frequently to afilict several children of the same parents. In the course of the present article, I have already had oc- casion to advert to two striking examples of this fact. The first is related by Mr. Lucas, who attended five children of a clergyniijn at Leaven, near Beverlej', all born with cataracts. (See il/erf. Obs. and Inquiries, vol. vi.) The second is mentioned by Mr. Gibson, who saw five or six children, the families of two sisters, who were all totally blind, and in an idiotic state, hav- ing cataracts accompanied with amaurosis. {Edin. Med. aitd Surgical Journal, vol. viii. p. 398,) Several instances occurred to the late Mr. Saun- ders. In one famil}', two brothers were thus afflicted. In a second familj', two brothers, twins, became blind with cataracts at the nge of twenty- one months, each within n few daj-s of the other. It is remarkable, that the four cataracts