CyESAREAN OPERATION. 373 cision in the skin and muscles of the abdomen, it is necessary to open the pouch in which the child is contained. The instances of conceptions in the Fallopian tube are not uncommon. Those in the ovary, and cavity of peritoneum, are more rare. Sabatier conjectures, that most of the cases reported to be of the latter kind, if attentively examined, would have been found to be in reality conceptions in the Fallopian tube. Extra-uterine conceptions hardly ever arrive at niaturitj'. However, the foetus formed in the Fallopian tube has sometimes been known to attain the term of nine months and then die either from the impossibility of its expulsion or from the in- sufficiency of the nourishment afforded it. The pouch in which it is contained and the neighbour- ing parts have then inflamed, and, after becoming connected together by numerous adhesions, have suppurated. The abscess has burst, partly at some point of the circumference of the bellj', and partly into the rectum, vagina, or bladder ; and the dead foetus has been discharged piecemeal with the matter. In other examples, the foetus, instead of giving rise to abscesses, has become ossified with the en- veloping membranes, and continued in this state many years, without any other inconvenience to the patient than what depended on the size and weight of the tumor within the abdomen. Most frequently, however, the pouch containing the foetus bursts, about the middle of the ordinary period of gestation, and the child passes into the cavity of the peritoneum. At the same moment, the blood-vessels, ramifying on the parietes of the containing parts, usually pour forth into the abdo- men so much blood that the patients generally die in the space of a few hours. (See a case by Dr. Clarke in Trans, of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical knoivledge. Also an- other, adverted to by Sir C. Bell, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iv. p. 340.) Two facts of this kind fell under Saliatier's ob- servation. The women were in the end of the fourth month of pregnancy. Excepting a swelling, which affected only one side of the abdomen, and frequent dragging pains in this cavity, there was no indication of anything extraordinary. In other respects, the patients were well. They were both, all on a sudden, attacked with extremely acute pains, which lasted two or three hours. A more violent suffering than the rest was followed by entire ease. The abdomen subsided, and became flat. An equal moderate warmth difl^used itself over this part of the body. The skin lost its colour. Almost continual syncopes occurred. The pulse became feeble and concentrated. Cold perspira- tions ensued, and the women died. The rapid course of these symptoms rendered it impossible for Sabatier to be of any service. The patients were actually dying when he was called to them. The examination of their bodies evinced that the abdomen contained a large quantity of blood ; that the fcEtuses lay on the intestines, connected with the lacerated Fallopian tube by means of the um- bilicial cord ; and that the tube itself, which was strongly contracted, presented no other tumor except that which depended on the after-birtli. There is nothing that announces an extra-uterine pregnancy with sufficient certainty to justify any positive conclusion respecting the nature of the case, before the ordinary time of parturition. In many women, the gravid uterus inclines to one side, and numerous pregnant females have dragging pains which may depend upon other causes. Things, however, are different when the foetus has lived to the ordinary period of parturition, and the woman is attacked with labour-pains; because, besides the unequivocal signs of the presence of a child in the abdomen, the womb is empty, and is little changed from its common state. Should we now, asks Sabatier, have recourse to the Csesarean operation, just as if the foetus were in the womb ? Can we be sure that the pouch which contains the child will contract like the uterus, and that the incision which is in contemplation will not give rise to a fatal haemorrhage ? Would it be easy to separate and remove the whole of the placenta ? How could the discharge, analogous to the lochia, find an outlet, and would not its extravasation in the abdomen be likely to prove fatal ? Sabatier thinks, that the risk which is to be encountered is much less when things are left to nature. The child, indeed, must inevitably perish. It will either give rise to abscesses, with which it will be discharged in fragments, or it will remain for a length of time in the abdomen, without any urgent symptoms. Sabatier also calls our attention to the great precariousness of an infant's life, and ex- presses his opinion that there can be no difficulty in deciding what conduct ought to be adopted. Happilj', practitioners are not often placed in cir- cumstances so delicate, and extra-uterine- concep- tions mostly perish, before the end of the common period of gestation. We have then only to second the efforts of nature; either by promoting suppura- tion, if it should seem likely to occur ; by making a suitable opening, or enlarging one that may have formed spontaneously; by extracting such frag- ments of the foetus as present themselves ; by brcakmg the bones, when their large size confines them m the abscess, as Littr^ did in an instance where the abscess burst into the rectum ; and, lastly, by employing suitable injections. An extremely uncommon case of extra-uterine conception was related a few years ago by Josephi • the foetus having at length passed into the bladder by ulceration, and caused such affliction as ren- dered cystotomia indispensable, with the view of extracting the parts of the fostus lodged in that organ. The operation was done above the pubes • but the internal mischief already existing was so' great, that the patient did not recover, (Ueber- die SclavanQerschaft ausserhalb der Geb'drmuiier • Rostock, 1803, 8vo.) ' Govei, p. 401, relates a case of ventral concep- tion, in which instance the Cajsarean operation was done and the child preserved. A ladv aged twenty-one, had a tumor in the groin, which'w-is at first supposed to be an epiplocele, but an arteri'il pulsation was perceptible in it. In about ten weeks the swelling had become as large as a pound of bread. Govei, solicited by the lady, opened the tumor. He first discovered a sort of membranous sac, whence issued a gallon of limpid fluid The sac was dilated, and a male fcctus found, about half a foot long, and large in proportion. It was perfectly alive, and was baptized. After tying the umbilical cord, the placenta was found to be at- tached to tlie parts just behind, and near, the ab- dominal ring ; but it was easily separated. Govei docs not mention whether the mother survived. Bertrandi was unacquainted with any example of B D 3