the disease appear to have been benefited by the studded with ossifications, after the origin of the operation, and in that instance the good effects appear not to have been due so much to the opera- tion itself as to the accident of the sac becoming inflamed, and suppurating, and thus undergoing a spontaneous euro. In .three instances, both the carotid and the subclavian have been tied; and, in the most fa- vourable of these, two years elapsed between the ligatures of the carotid and that of the subclavian, the patient dying three months after the second operation. In one of the other cases, both arteries were tied simultaneously, the patient surviving six days. The Inst case in which distal ligature of the carotid has been practised, is one by Mr. Lane, of which the following is a short acconut:— "J. F., thirty-six years of age, admitted into St. Mary's Hospital, July, 1852, for aneurism of left carotid, immediately above the sternal end of the clavicle, which first appeared six months previously. July 7th. The carotid was ligatured on the distal side of the tumor ; the chief point worthy of note being the large size of the anterior jugular vein. After the operation, the pulsation in tumor increased somewhat, but no pulsations in branches of external carotid. On the 10th, tumor being much the same, ice was applied to it. On the 16th, it was rather harder. 19th, ligature came away; less impulse in tumor. On 29th, indistinct return of pulsations in left temporal. Aug. 5th, Tumor deci.dedly harder. 6th. Considerably less pro- minent ; and the whole tumor felt more solid. 7th. Tumor was rapidly decreasing ; pulsation merely at inner and lower side ; some humid discharge took place from the wound, and in the night of the 22nd pure blood was discharged; V. S. ad 5 xij_. was prescribed. The patient now became feverish, and symptoms of broncho-pneumonia, with bloody sputa set in, from which he died on Sept. 13th. After death, the aneurism was found adhering to apex of left lung, witli which it communicated by a circular ulcerated aperture; it was filled with firm layers of coagulum, except at commencement from aorta, and part adjoining left lung. Tlie artery above tumor obliterated as high as external carotid."] Op Aneurishis op the Aorta, and Val- salva's Treatment. This afflicting and fatal disease is by no means unfrequent, and the arch of the aorta is its most common situation. Dr. Hunter was of opinion, that the latter circumstance depended on the forcible manner in which the blood, propelled from the left ventricle of the heart, must be driven agamst the angle of the curvature of the vessel. Mr. A. Burns considered aneurism of the thoracic aorta more frequent, perhaps, than that of any other vessel m the body. " I have had (says he) an opportunity of examining fourteen who had died of this disease, hut have not seen more than three instances of external aneurism." (On 1)U. nuses 0/ llic Heart, tj-f. p. 215.) These proportions, however, would not correspond to common ob- servation, external aneurisms, taken collectively being supposed to be ahout as numerous ns those of the aorta alone, a calculation long ago made by Dr. A. Monro, primus. It was the opinion of Dr. W. Hunter, that the nnourismal sac was composed of the dilated coats of the artery, which parts nature thickened and ANEURISM. 215 disease, for the purpose of resisting its increase. Mr. Hodgson also declares his decided belief, and adduces facts to prove, that many aneurisms of the aorta are formed by dilatation. Yet the cele- brated Scarpa believed that the generality of aneurisms of the aorta were the consequence of a rupture of the proper coats of this large vessel ; and that its cellular sheath was distended into the aneurismal sac. While Dr. W. Hunter considered the ossifications of the sac as consequences of the disease, Haller looked upon the scales of calcareous matter in the aorta as the very cause of the affection, by rendering the artery inelastic, and incapable of yielding to each pulsation of the heart. On this point Haller was right. Aneurisms of the aorta are most common in persons who are advanced in life; and the aorta of every old subject, whether affected with aneurism or not, is very commonly marked in some place or another with ossifications, or rather with calca- reous concretions. Such productions occasion a decay, or absorption, of the muscular and inner coats of the vessel, so that at length the force of the blood makes the artery give way ; and this fluid, collecting on the outside of the laceration, or rupture, gradually distends the external sheath of the artery into the aneurismal sac. " If any person, who is not prejudiced in favour of the common doctrine with regard to the nature and proximate cause of this disease (says Scarpa), will examine, not hastily and superficially, but with care and by dissection, the intimate structure and texture of the aneurism of the aorta, unfolding with particular attention the proper and common coats of this artery, and, in succession, those which constitute the aneurismal sac, in order to ascertain distinctly the texture and limits of both, he will clearly see that the aorta, properly speak- ing, contributes nothing to the formation of the aneurismal sac, and that, consequently, the sac is merely the cellular membrane which in the sound state covered the artery, or that soft cellular sheath which the artery received in common with the neighbouring parts. This cellular substance, being raised and compressed by the blood effused from the corroded or "lacerated artery, assumes the form of a circumscribed tumor, covered externally, in common with the artery, by a smooth membrane such as the pleura in the thorax, and the perito- neum in the abdomen." Scarpa then comments upon the differences of the mere dilatation of an artery from aneurism, a subject which has been already fully considered in the foregoing pages. {Scarpa On the Anatomy, Pathuhyy, and Surgical Treatment of Aneurism, transl. liy IVis/iart, p. 55, 5(J ) As I have already explained in the prccedinir columns the views taken of this part of the sub- ject by Scarpa are not entertained by the cone- rnhty of surgeons; or rather, his doctrine is not earned by olhcrs to the extent which he has insisted upon, and it would be useless repetition tn hnng again before the reader the facts nrovin. tint his statements are liable to many exceptions A case, however, recited by M. Roux, which I "have met with since the foregoing pages were printed merits notice ; it was an instance in which a pon- iteal niicurism, unattended with pulsation hid been mistaken for an abscess and punctured, whore by the patient lost his life. On dissecting the limb M. Koux says, " the three coats of the artery