AMPUTATION. 66 cision at the distance of two inclies from the place where the bone is to be sawn, that is, at the distance of the semi-diameter of the limb on each side. But, as the integuments, when in a sound State, always recede after they are divided, it is useful to make some allowance for this recession; and to make the first incision, in this case, at least two inches and a half, or three inches, below the place where the bone is to be sawn. As the posterior muscles of the thigh retract a great deal in the process of healing, Mr. Hey advises their division to be begun half an inch above the place where the integuments were cut, and the anterior muscles three quarters of an inch. " The integu- ments," says he, " will retract a little both above and below the place where they were divided: but the distance from that place must be computed from the mark left npon the surface of the muscles in dividing the integuments." Thus, in fact, in a common thigh amputation, Mr. Hey deemed it necessary to detach the skin from the muscles merely to the extent of half an inch at the back part of the limb, and of three quarters in front ; a very different practice from the old custom of making quite a bag of integuments, and turning them back, as the upper piece of a glove is turned down, or rather as the sleeyes of a coat are turned xip. This triple incision is well adapted for those parts of the limbs where there is but one bone, as in the thigh and am ; but it is not applicable to the forearm and leg. In these latter situations, it is always necessary to turn back the skin, as a sufficiency of covering cannot otherwise be obtained. In amputating the thigh at its upper part, Vel- peau believes the oblique division of the muscles, with the edge of the knife turned upwards, to be advantageous, as, without this precaution, or the saving and turning back the skin to the extent of two inches, the sides of the wound will not admit of being brought together. (Nouv, ELem. de M6d. Oper. t. i. p. 608.) Nor are there many living surgeons who entertain a doubt of the excellence of the principle inculcated by M. Louis respecting the utility of dividing the loose superficial muscles first, and then such as are deeper and adherent to the bone. In fact, a combination of this last me- thod, with the oblique division of the muscles, not exactly by one, but several strokes of the k)iife, constitutes the mode of performing the circular operation at present most extensively adopted, and sometimes termed, as already mentioned, am- putation by a triple incision. Thus, after the skin is cut, and as much of it retracted and saved as is deemed necessary, the operator cuts through the loose muscles at the edge of the retracted skiu, first those on the fore part of the limb, and then such as are situated behind. For this purpose, he makes two or more sweeps of the knife, as may be found necessary, carefully directing them obliquely upwards towards tlie point, where he means to saw the bone. The oblique division of tho muscles does not merely enable the operator to saw the bone higher up than he could otherwise do, and to leave, at the same time, more muscle for covering its extremity, but it is a preservation of sound, un detached integuments, which assuredly form the most efficient and durable covering for the stumj- I say this, without precisely coinciding with Briin- ninghausen, who, trusting entirely to skin for covering his stumps, makes an extensive detach. ment of it from the muscles, and then cuts straight down to the bone. The loose muscles actually cut through now retract considerably, leaving those which are deeper and attached to the bone in a condition to be cut higher up than could have been previously done. Lastly, these are also to be di- vided with the edge of the knife directed obliquely upwards towards the place where the saw is to be applied. Some operators do more than this ; for, after cutting down to the bone, they follow the plan of Colsus, and detach the flesh from its whole circumference upwards with a scalpel, to the extent of about another inch, in order to be enabled to saw the bone still higher up. " Inter sanam vilia- lamque partem incidenda scalpello caro usque ad OS, reducemia ah eo sana caro, et circa os subsccanda est, ul ea quoque parte aliqidd ossis nudelur." This method, I think, deserves commendation, because it may have considerable effect in hindering a pro- trusion of the bone, if it does not, in conjunction with the foregoing method of operating, and judi- cious dressings, render this disagreeable event quite impossible. However, I shall never forget a poor soldier, whose thigh had been amputated in Ber- gen-op-Zoom, and who was brought about ten days after the operation into the military hospital at Oudenbosch under my care. Not the slightest union of any part of the wound had taken place ; abscesses had formed under the fascia on every side of the stump ; the loose skin was literally a large bag of purulent matter ; the muscles were wasted to almost nothing, and their remains re- tracted, and shrinking still further away from the extremity of the bone, which protruded at least three inches beyond the soft parts. This unfor- tunate man had been attacked with chronic tetanus soon after the operation, and, probably, it was to the disturbance of the stump by the effects of that disease, and to the strong and continual tendency of the muscles to retract themselves, induced by this state of the system, that the deplorable state of the stump was to be attributed. He lingered nearly a fortnight in the hospital before he died ; previously to which event, large abscesses, com- municating with the hollow of the stump, sur- rounded the greater part of the pelvis. As I had every reason to believe that the operation had been skilfully done, perhaps when I say that the above mode of amputating will make a protrusion of the bone impossible, it is not exactly correct, as the occurrence may sometimes originate from causes which are quite independent of the particular way in which the operation has been executed. [Instead of the usual circular division some sur- <reons now make two semilunar incisions on the opposite aspects of the limb. These incisions form the outline of two equal semilunar flaps of integu- ment, which arc to be dissected from the subjacent textures and reflected back. This having been done, the muscles are to be cut through opposite the base of the flaps by circular incisions accoid- ins to tho instructions already given. Ihe Haps should be of suflicient size to meet readily, and without stretching, over the cut ends of the bone and muscles. This differs from the usual operation only in the mode of making the incision in the integuments ; it is in principle the same both as .wards tho division of the remaining soft part^ and ii, tho nature of the covering left for the stamp Its advantages are, that the flaps admit of being reflected back with greater facility than tho cir-