657 EYE. posing the operator prefers dividing it with scissors, they may bo introduced on the nasal side of the orbit, with their concavity towards the swelling, and while the swelling is drawn for- wards and outwards the pedicle may be divided at one stroke. If any fibres should remain uncut, their division must now be completed. If a long, narrow knife is preferred, it may also be intro- duced on the nasal side of the orbit, as recom- mended by Velpeau. {Noiiv. Elan. S{c. t. i. p. 787.) This gentleman, however, does not object to introducing the knife or scissors on the temporal side as preferred bj' Desault, Travers, Lawrence, and Malgaigne. The lachrymal gland is best removed by seizing it with a hoolc, and then dissecting it out of its fossa. Dupuytren used to begin with detaching the eye from the upper part of the orbit ; he then divided the pedicle, and drevv the swelling towards the cheek. The operation was finished by detaching the tumor inferiorly, from within outwards. Thus, there were only two stages. (See J. F. Mal- qaiqne, Manuel de Mid. Oper. ed. ii. p. 402, l2mo. Paris, 1837.) Mr. Travers, with a straight double-edged knife, freely divides the conjunctiva and oblique muscles, so as to separate the eyeball and lachrymal gland from the base of the orbit. Drawing the eye then gently forwards with the ligature, he intro- duces a double-edged knife, " curved breadth- wise," at the temporal commissure of the lids, for the purpose of dividing the muscles, vessels, and nerves, by which the globe remains attached. The haemorrhage he represses with a small bit of fine sponge put into the orbit, and a light compress, applied over the e)-elids, and supported with a bandage. The sponge, he says, should not be suffered to remain longer than the following da}', when a soft poultice in a muslin bag may be substituted for the compress. He approves of giving an opiate at bed-time, and joins Ware in condemning the practice of cramming the orbit with lint or charpie, and leaving it to be dis- charged by suppuration. {Synopsis of tlie Dis- eases of lite Eye, p. 30B.) Aa soon as the eyeball has been removed, the surgeon should examine with his finger whether any indurated or diseased parts have been left behind, and, if they have, he should next cut them away with scissors or the knife. The employment of sponge is objected to by Velpeau as likely to cause some mischief by its expansion within a solid cavity. (See Nouv. Elim. t. i. p. 7!if!.) If a dossil of lint be held for a little wiiile on the bleeding vessels, the ha;morrhage will generally stop, and tlic plan of forcibly distending tlio orbit with lint, or sponge, will be unnecessary. The bleeding is from the ophtludmic artery and its branches. The bleeding having been stopped, the edges of the incision at the outer commissure are to be brought together with a suture ; the eyelids ap- proximated to one anotlier ; and some soft pieces of lint, or fine linen, wett'.Hl with cold water, laid over them. For a few days iiftcr the operation antiphlogistic treatment is proper. The patient should bo kept in bed until all risk from inllamniation is past, and Mippuration has been freely established. In one c;ise, operated upon by Mr. Guthrie, tlic symptoms of inflammation wore so violent that it was neces- sary to take away 250 ounces of blood in the course of the three first days. (Operative Surgery of the Eye, p. 183.) Sometimes, fungous granulations continually form in the orbit, notwithstanding they are repeatedly destroyed ; and sometimes the dis- ease extends even to the brain, and produces fatal consequences. When malignant fungous excres- cences grow from the cornea alone, it is necessary to extirpate the whole eyeball. [The operation of excision, as above described, has been superseded by a method which was first performed by Mr. Critchett, at the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital, Moorfields. The following remarks respecting the operation and its indications are taken from a paper of Mr. Critchett. {Original Observations, founded on a series of cases of Ex- tirpation of the Globe, <!j'c. reprinted from the Lancet of Nov. 17th and 24th, 1855.) "... and secondly to describe my method of extirpating the globe, an operation I first performed at the Ophthalmic Hospital, in October 1851, and one that I was the first to perform and to describe in this country. I have since learnt that it was first suggested by O'Ferrall, in 1841, in the Dtihlin Journal, and by Bonnet, in 1842, in the Annates d'Oculisligue, but of this I was unaware at the time of my operation, as was Bonnet probably of O'Ferrall's priority when he wrote upon the subject a year subsequently. The patient is brought imder the influence of chloroform. I then commence by dividing the conjunctiva as close as possible round the margin of the cornea. I then cut through the external rectus muscle, close to the sclerotic, then the superior and inferior rectus and the obliqui; then draw the globe forwards, and divide the optic nerve ; turn the globe nut of the orbit, and com- plete the operation by dividing the internal rectus. If rapidity of execution, absence of hiemorrhage, freedom from constitutional or local disturbance, and a speedy cure, form the elements of a mild operation, then I do not hesitate to rank this pro- cedure, formerly deemed so severe, amongst the simplest and safest operations of surgerj'." Mr. Dixon has modified this operation, by first dividing the internal rectus, so as to leave a con- siderable portion of its tendon by which to hold the eye, then dividing, without using the hook, the tendons of the superior and inferior muscles and the optic nerve ; the globe is then turned out of the orbit, and the external rectus tendon, and the remainder of its soft attachments are divided. Mr. Bowman contracts the opening in the conjunctiva by a suture, when the bleeding has entirely ceased. The bleeding (generally inconsiderable, .as only small vessels are divided) is best stopped by con- tinued application of cold water, whilst the lids are kept open by the speculum. The introduction of lint docs not answer as well. Mr. Critchett proceeds to consider the cases for which ho has performed this operation, and for which it seems applicable. Ho says, " I may men- tion that I have lately performed this operation in cases that I would group as follows:—Ibt. Exten- sive staphyloma of the globe, with and without recent inflannnatory disease. This class of cases however, is now treated by abscission. See S'i'Ai'iivi.oMA. 2nd. Cases where there is reason to suspect the presence of a foreign body within the globe. ;ird. Cases of severe symbleplinron or adhesion of the globe to the eyelid, causing pain, irritation, and deformity, and for wliich no opera- tion is of any avail. -Itli. Acute inflammation U U