ANUS. 2S9 line lint should be introduced (from the rectum) ' etween the divided lips of the incision ; as well 1 repress any slight haemorrhage, as to prevent le immediate reunion of the said lips; and the st of the sore should be lightly dressed with the ime. Cramming the sinuses with lint, besides uising great pain, would prevent the free escape purulent matter, and promote the formation of new sinuses. Sometimes it is advantageous to give a few drops of laudanum after the operation, on the principle specified by Sir Benjamin Brodie, ^raely, not with the view of relieving pain, but . occasioning costiveness, which will allow the dressings to remain imdisturbed for two or three days. After this, a gentle aperient may be ad- ministered, which will prevent the ill effects of too long continued constipation, and, at the same time, bring away the first dressings. Instead of immediately applying dressings again, Sir Benja- min Brodie prefers a poultice for three or four days, imtil the first inflammation consequent on th. operation has subsided. After this, he dresses the sinuses daily, either with dry lint, or with lint spread with some stimulating ointment, or soaked in a stimulating lotion; always observing the rule to dress lightly. The first dressing should be permitted to continue until suppuration renders it loose enough to come away easily; and all the future ones should be as light, soft, and easy as possible. If a loose fungous kind of flesh has taken pos session of the inside of the sinus, a slight touch of the lunar caustic will reduce it sooner, and with better effect on the sore, than any other escharotic whatever. Modem writers also speak of a smooth adven titious membrane, which is found to line old fistnlce, and frequently to hinder the success of the operation. (See Quarterly Journ. of Foreign Medicine, S(c., No. 8.) But my own belief is, that a case hindered from getting well by this cause is very rare in comparison with others in which the cure is prevented by the matter being still more or less confined, and not having as free an outlet as circumstances demand. Sometimes in attempting to cure what seems to be a common fistula, we find that it does not get well; and in the end a copious abscess is dis- covered higher up, which prevents the closing of the smaller sinus below. (See Brodie, in Lond, Med. Gaz. vol. for 1835,1836, p. 28.) I have had opportunities of seeing several cases corresponding to this accurate description. In another place, Sir Benjamin Brodie, in adverting to a few cases which are met with, and kept from healing by some un- detected sinus, relates the particulars of one instance, in which a lady had several sinuses near the rectum. Sir Benjamin Brodie laid open all ho could find; but she continued imcurcd a consider- able lime, during all which she complained of un- easy sensations, which could not be accounted for. After repeated examinations, a sinus was detected high up, not more than an inch in length, and seemingly involving the levator ani. This having been laid open, a cure soon followed. See Loml Med. Gaz. for 183.5, 183G, p. 18.5.) Fistulous sores, sinuses, and indurations about the anus, which are consequences of diseases of the neck of the bladder and urethra, called fistula; in penna;o, require separate and particular consi- deration. (See Fistula in PEaiNiKo.) Abscesses are frequently formed about the lum- bar vertebrfB, under the psoas muscle, and near the sacrum ; in which cases, the bones are pro- bably carious, and sinuses may run down by the side of the rectum, and burst near the fundament. The treatment of such sores and sinuses can have little influence on the remote situation where the collection of matter is originally formed. (See Lumbar Abscess.) Some years ago, M. Roux published a critique on the preference which English surgeons invari- ably give to Pott's method of operating for fis- tula in ano. The plan which he prefers, consists in the use of a kind of director, called a gorget, which is usually made of ebony or box-wood, and intended to be introduced within the rectum, with its concavity turned towards the fistula. A steel director, slightly pointed, and without a cul-de-sac, is then passed through the fistula, till the point comes into contact with the wooden gorget. A long, narrow, sharp-pointed straight bistoury is now introduced along the groove of the steel di- rector, till its point meets the groove of the ebony gorget, by cutting upon which all the parts are divided which lie between the internal opening of the fistula and the anus. It may be objected to this method, that it is not always easy to make a director pass at once through the fistula into the rectum. This is acknowledged by Richerand, who adds, that, in this circumstance, the point of the director may be forced into the rectum, without lessening the chance of the success of the operation. {Nosogr. CMr. t. iii, p. 463, 464, ed. 4.) A flexible silver director will be more likely to follow the track of the fistula completely into the rectum than a steel one ; and the finger of the surgeon will always do the office of the wooden gorget with greater convenience. The only purpose which such a contrivance answers, seems to Sir Benjamin Brodie to be that of saving the sm'geon's fore- finger ; but, in using it, an advantage is lost, that of the sense of touch ; " and (says he) in my own practice, I have found that I could complete the operation better with my fore-finger than the wooden gorget." (Op. et vol. cit. p. 184.) M. Roux censures us for not cramming the wound with charpie ; for he is not content with merely introducing into it a dossil of lint. (See ParalVde de la Chir. Angloise, ^-o., p. 296, &c.) His country- man, Pouteau, however, long ago expressed his de- cided conviction of the inutility of cramming the wound with dressings to its very bottom, after the third day, when superficial dressings, and the renewal of tliem as often as cleanliness requires will be fully sufficient. After the sinuses are healed' there is always a sort of fissure or chink left by the side of the anus. If the sinus has been deep this chink will be deep in proportion ; and then an mconvenience will follow, which may lead the patient to fear he is not cured, though l,e is so in reality The mucus of the rectum, sometimes stained with the Imccs, will flow through it and stain the linen. But (as Sir Benjamin Brodie adds) this 13 only temporary; the chink, however deep, will gradually close, and the mucus will ultimately bo retaiiu'd as well ae over." Operations for fistula in ano may bo followed by very troiihlesomo luoniorrhage ; but tliis hap- pens I believe, chiefly in patients whose luxmor- rhoidal vessels arc enlarged, or where the surgeon deviates from the prudent advice delivered bv s 2