679 DISLOCATION. ponding to the sole was n pad with an iron ring firmly attached to it, was buckled round the foot, immediately in front of the astragalus ; and a piece of girth web was then placed on the heel, with its ends crossed on the dorsum of the foot, and made fast to the ring, to which latter the pulleys were attached. The counter-extension was made from the lower part of the thigh, the knee-joint being kept strongly flexed. Gra- dual and continued extension was kept up for about ten minutes, and while Messrs. Hutton and Macdonnell were engaged in the guidance of the bones, in the manner above mentioned, Mr. Carmichael himself made a sudden and violent effort, and the bone slipped into its place. A rapid recoverj' took place, and in little more than a month after the accident he was able to stand Upon the injured foot without pain. (See Dublin Jow-nal of Med. Nov. 1838, p. 236.) In the simple dislocation means such as the above will in the majority of cases, with the as- sistance of chloroform, accomplish the reduction ; should they not suffice, subcutaneous section of the tendo Achillis should be practised, and any other tendon (the tibialis anticus, for instance,) which seemed to interfere with the return of the bone to its place, might also be divided. If, notwith- standing all this, the bone is stiU irreducible, nothing further should be done, but the parts should be left to themselves, and in all probability the patient will recover a verj' useful limb, though of course the deformity will remain. Certainly, no attempt should be made in ihe first instance, and in a simple dislocation, to remove the dislocated bone. It may be, that the skin will slough, and the bone protrude, and a part or the whole of it may then be removed without adding to the mis- chief, and with much less risk than would be incurred by at once making incisions and converting a simple into a compound dislocation. Cases have been already referred to in which the bone pro- tnided, and was allowed to separate spontaneously. If the dislocation is originally compound, however, the case is different, though here also the reduction should be attempted in the first instance, on the same principles as in the simple dislocation, and the wound in the skin may be enlarged, and the tendons divided if it appears to be necessary. The compound, however, is much more frequently irreducible than the simple dislocation. In seven- teen cases of sub-astragaloid dislocation, says M. Broca, reduction was only possible in five. In the irreducible cases, the removal of the astragalus should be immediately practised, and the foot should be at once adjusted as well as may be to the articular extremities of the tibia and fibula. In some cases it will be sufficient only to saw off the projecting portion of the bone, and to leave the remainder, but when the entire bono or the greater part of it protrudes through the skin, and when it is much loosened from its surrounding connec- tions, it is better to take away the whole. Some authorities recommend the removal of the bone, even when not irreducible, if it has been much separated from the surrounding parts, fearing that the loss of vascular supply would occasion its necrosis. It must be remembered that the astra- galus is peculiarly circumstanced in this respect, by far the greater part of its surface being articular, and a very small portion, comparatively with other bones, being available for the entrance of blood I vessels. On this point M. Malgaigne observes, that the question of reduction in compound dis- location of the astragalus depends entirely, in his opinion, upon the connections which the bone has preserved with the surrounding parts ; and it is important to remember that the portion of the bone forming the ancle-joint contributes nothing to ita nutrition, the elements of which reach it chiefly by its inferior surface. When, therefore, the astragalus has escaped entirely by the wound, even though it may have preserved its connections with the tibia and fibula, the reduction would be fol- lowed by an almost certain necrosis. He refers to eight cases of reduction, of which three were fatal, and one was followed by a caries, probably incurable. {Traite des Fract. <^c., t. ii. p. 106fi.) Taking into consideration the severity of the injury, the results of excision of the astragalus are very satisfactory. According to Mr. Turner's tables, in eighteen cases in which the whole bone was taken away, a useful foot was obtained in thirteen ; in one there was ankylosis, and the re- maining four died. In six cases of partial excision, there remained a useful foot in three ; ankylosis in one, more or less lameness and deformity in the other two. A movable joint, therefore, appears to be the rule, and ankylosis the exception. The remarks here made respecting the treatment of compound dislocations, are applicable to the lateral dislocations, as well as to that specially under consideration,] 2. [Dislocatin7i of the astragalus inwards from the OS calcis and scaphoid hone.—M. Malgaigne refers to as many as ten cases of this kind of dislocation of the astragalus, of which four were simple and six were compound. They may be caused by a fall on the heel, the foot -being in a position of abduction, or by direct violence operating against the outer side of the leg. The astragalus with the tibia and fibula is carried inwards, some- times directl}', sometimes slightly forwards or back- wards at the same time. In several cases the fibula has been fractured a little above the ancle-joint. The appearances are explained by the following case, which was observed by Mr. H. Cline, in St. Thomas's Hospital, in 1815. Some heavy stones had fallen on the patient, and had caused a compound fracture of the left leg, and a dislocation of the right astragalus from the other bones of the tarsus. The whole foot was somewhat displaced outwards- the 08 calcis projected much beyond the outer ancle, the prominence of which was nearly lost • there was a remarkable depression below the outer ancle, between it and the displaced os calcis • whilst there was an equally remarkable projection below the inner ancle, produced bj' the dislocated astragalus. It thus appeared that the astragalus was dislocated inwards from the navicular bone and 03 calcis, so as to have its inferior articulatory surfaces resting on the inner edge of the (is calcis. (See Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations, p. 329, ed. by B. Coo}tcr, 1!S42.) In former editions of Sir A. Cooper's work, the prominence of the heel is said to have been diminished in this case ; if so the astragalus must have been displaced slightly back- wards as well as inwards. In another case, carefully recorded by Mr. Hancock, the fibula was fractured three inches above the ancle : the axis of the tibia, instead of falling in the centre of the foot, was thrown inwards and slightly for-