being compared with the Hunterian operation, in he ligature of the femoral artery may then be N 4 iLiiJertiiken.] Aneurisms in general, and, among tbem, the opliteal case, are all attended with some little liance of a spontaneous cure ; yet this desirable event is too uncommon to be a judicious reason for postponing the operation, especially as it is the usual course of the disease to continue to in- crease ; while, in the early stage, the cure may be more speedily accomplished. In fact, when the patient is not too much debilitated, the experience of modern operators leaves no ground for appre- hending that the anastomoses will not suffice for the due nourishment of the leg, and conseciuently proves, that waiting beyond a certain time for the enlargement of the collateral vessels to take place is altogether an unnecessary and a disadvan- tageous method. Popliteal aneurisms, as well as other external tumors of the same nature, stand some chance of a spontaneous cure, when any cause induces a general, violent, and deep inflam- mation all over the swelling; for, then the com- munication between the sac and the artery is likely to become closed with coagulating lymph, and the pulsation of the tumor to be suddenly and per- manently stopped. Tf, in this state, the disease sloughs, and the patient's constitution holds out, the coagulated blood in the sac and the slonghs are gradually detached, leaving a deep ulcer, which ultimately heals. An example, in which a popliteal aneurism was cured by such a process, is related in the Trans, for the Bnprovement of Med. and C/iir. Knowledge., vol. ii. p. 260. In former times, when all hopes of curing a popliteal aneurism by Valsalva's method, by com- pression, or a natm-al process, were at an end, amputation of the limb was considered as the sole and necessary means of saving the patient's life. But, about seventy years ago, the confidence of sur- geons in the sufficiency of the anastomosing vessels for the continuance of the circulation began to increase; and, in opposition to the tenets of J. L. Petit and Pott, experience soon proved, that, in general, not only might the patient's life be saved, but his limb also, and this without any operation that could be compared with amputation, in regard to severity. On looking back to the history of amputation, we shall find that A. N. Guenault was one of the earliest writers who disapproved of amputation as not truly necessary in cases of pop- liteal aneurism. It is alleged that Teislere, Molinclli, Guattani, Mazotti, and some other celebrated Italian sur- geons, were the first who ventured to tie the popliteal artery for the cure of aneurism. The path, as Pclletan remarks, had been pointed out to them by Winslow and Haller, whose valuable descriptions and plates of the arterial anastomoses about the knee-joint, showed by what means the lower part of the limb would be nourished, after a ligature had been placed on the principal arterial trunk. For almost thirty years, however, the practice of tying the popliteal artery was confined to the Italian surgeons. Pelletan believes that he was the first who attempted such an operation at Paris, nearly thirty years ago (alluding to about the year 17!iO, the Clinique CMrurrjicale being dated 1810). However, this opbration of opening the tumor and tying the popliteiil artery itself, was a severe and often a fatal proceeding, and docs not admit of ANEURISM. 16S point either of simplicity, safety, or success, as I shall explain, after the detail of a few particulars relating to the popliteal aneurism. On whatsoever side of the artery the tumor is produced, it can be plainly felt in the hollow be- tween the hamstrings, and in general its nature is as easily ascertained by the pulsation in every part of it. In the early stage of spontaneous aneurism, the swelling is soft, not usually accompanied by pain, and capable of being lessened by pres- sure, and more particularly by compression of the artery above the tumour, whereby the flow of blood into it is stopped, or materially diminished. The pulsation then ceases, but is restored on the compression being removed; and with the return of the pulsation, and that of the swelling to its original size, a peculiar thrilling feel is experi- enced, arising from the passage of the blood into the aneurism again from the artery, and termed by the French hruissement, because attended with a confused rattling sound. After the swelling has existed a little while, the bruit de soiiffiet, or bellows sound, is likewise more audible, especially when the stethoscope is employed. At length the tumor becomes firmer, and the blood cannot be entirely pressed out of it, because the interior of the sac is now more or less covered by solid lamellated blood. The patient, in order to avoid bearing much on the affected limb, limps in the early stage of the case ; but, " as the aneurism increases, he does so from two causes—the pressure which takes place on the nerves passing to the toes, and which gives rise to pain, not in the part affected, but in that to which the terminations of the nerves are distributed ; and, firom the same cause, giving rise to contraction of the muscles and rigidity of the tendons passing be- hind the joint, the leg is permanently bent ; the toes and leg are extremely pauiful ; and the foot and leg, incapable of bearing the weight of the body, become swelled and oedematous." (See Guthrie, On Dis. of tlie Arteries, t. i. p, 109.) Sometimes, however, the patient, even in the spon- taneous form of the disease, does complain of great pain in the ham, and of numbness in the leg and foot, instead of pain in those parts. (See Case by Collis, in Dubliii Journ.of Med. 5oi., vol. v. p. 33.) The symptoms of a popliteal aneurism, as they present themselves, when the sac gives waj' imder the integuments and fascia, or under the heads of the gastrocnemius, I need not repeat as they have been noticed in the general observations on aneur- ism. The progress of a popliteal aneurism dift'ers in different examples ; being sometimes slow, in other instances rapid. Mr. Collis had a patient with an aneurism in each ham, and the disease coutinued almost stationary from 1818 to 1833, durnig all which time so little inconvenience was experienced by the patient, that he was able to discharge the fatiguing duties of an iniantry soldier. (See Dublin Journ. of Med. Science, vol. v. p. 32.) I had a patient with popliteal aneurism, who, in his business of an organ-builder, used to ascend ladders, and lead a very active life for a consi- derable length of time ; indeed, until the sac gave way, and the disease changed into the diffused form. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvi.) Though the disease may not occur in the popliteal artery bo often as in the aorta itself, it certainly is seen more frequently in the former vessel than any other branch derived from the aorta. As Sir E.