822 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Commissioned Officers. Simple flesh contusions and wounds / slight I severe With contusion and fracture of bones of the cranium without •, known depression } With contusion and fracture of bones of the cranium with known depression _ ]■ Penetrating the cranium . , Perforating the cranium Total Total treated Total died. Dis- charged to duty. Invfl- lided. 25 0 22 Q D 13 0 7 6 2 1 0 1 2 2 0 0 S S 0 0 0 0 0 0 47 8 29 10 [Gunshot Wounds op the Face.] [Wounds of this region are not often fatal, nor even in the large majority of cases are they to be considered dangerous. During the war in the Crimea only 18 terminated unsuccessfully out of 75] examples of this injury; and one of these was from tetanus; two from inflammation of the membranes of the brain supervening, where the eye had been destroyed; and two from the same cause, where no injury to this organ had taken place; and two were complicated with extensive burns from explosion. Among the officers no fatal case occurred. When caused by grapeshot or fragments of shell they are frequently followed by profuse ha;mor- rhage, either as an immediate consequence of the injury, or on the detachment of sloughs, or separa- tion of dead bone. This bleeding it is often very difficult to restrain, especially where the injured vessel is deep and contained in long canals. The same troublesome bleeding not unfrequently occurs after bullet wounds. Great distress is occasioned by the pain, swell- ing, and high inflammatory symptoms that follow upon severe injuries of this part, and tliey fre- quently lead to great deformity. Tlie sinuses of the face are very often perforated, and occasionally balls lodge in them. The spherical bullets may sometimes be split by contact with the edges of the bones, or they may be flattened against the surface of them. Penetration of the frontal sinuses occasionally occurs, and not unfrequently leads to fistulous openings of these cavities ; or bullets may lodge in them without fracturing' or otherwise injuring their inner wall, and conse- quently without disturbance of the brain ; or they may become so impacted in them as to be inca- pable of removal, except by means of an elevator, or the opening in the external table will some- times require to be enlarged before they can be extracted. The globe of the eye may be destroyed, or vision become impaired, or altogether lost, where there is no apparent injury to the organ itself. In other cases amaurosis may be the result of the injury witliout there being any lesion of the optic nerve, ilie lodgment of bullets in the orbital fossaj, in rear of the eyeball, will occasion protrusion, inflam- mation, and suppuration of that organ, and even '"ghuTKlr:;. "'^^'^^^ aw^*!?'' ""'^ or forepart of the face is carried ■^^ay bj, grape or. other large shot, whereby the cavities of the nostrils and the maxillary sinuses are exposed, violent inflammation of the lining membrane of these cavities as well as of the integu- nients of the face is siu-e to supervene. The duct of the parotid gland is liable to division by wounds m Its neighbourhood; if the cavity of the mouth is not penetrated, this injiuy will in all probability be followed by a salivary fistula. Mr. Guthrie recommends in such a case, that the wound should be extended into the mouth, and the external opening be made to heal before the internal, which latter must be kept open, so as to prevent the oc- currence of a fistula. {CommetUaries, edition 6, p. 524.) Wounds in this part of the face some- times implicate the trunk, or some of the large branches of the portio dura nerve, thereby produ- cing more or less complete paralysis of the muscles ot that side of the face. Should the lachrymal bones or sac be injured by bal s or sword-cuts, the tears usually continue tlirough life to run over the face, and cause much inconvenience; much good may however be effected by early attention to such accidents. Wounds of the upper jaw are attended with great sug-ering and distress. Bullets entering the mouth generally break the teeth and fracture the bones of this or the lower jaw, as well as wound the tongue and soft palate. Considerable portions of the tongue may be destroyed without the speech being much affected. Extraction of loose frag- ments of bone require very generally to be made after these wounds, and sometimes larger portions which are fixed render their removal necessary, owing to their projection into, and encroachment on, the cavity of tlie mouth. Injuries of the lower jaw are very common, more so even than those of the upper, and are very trou- blesome and difficult to treat, ns well as tedious in their progress ; many of them end in great de- formity. M. Baudens, in some severe cases, cut down upon the fractured bone and sawed off the broken, irregular, and pointed ends; the cases did very well, the wounds becoming speedily healed. {C/iiiiqM dcs Pkiies d'Amies a feu.) A very interesting case of this injury is detailed in tlie History of the British Army in the Crimea,]). 305, where the whole of the lower jnw included between the angles was so comniinuted by grapeshot tliat the fragments were entirely removed. Owing to the tongue liaving lost i'^ bony support in front, it had a tendency to f^'" backwards and close the opening of the glottis. To remedy this, the man of his own accord lay in a position bo as to have the face in the prone pos-