BLADDEK. 31-: of which does not hinder the patient from sitting, standing up, or even walking about in his chamber. (See CEuvres Chir. de Dcsaull, t. iii. p. 219—32-4.) This operation (according to Sir Astley Cooper) is easily performed, and not liable to the objections formerly made to it. To prevent the urine from passing through the canula incessantly, a stopper is employed, and withdrawn as often as necessary. In the female, it is the only proper one in cases of retention of urine from retroversio uteri, and from an obliteration of the meatus urinarius by cancer- ous disease ; for (says he) opening the bladder through the vagina " would probably cause a fis- tulous orifice, by which the urine would constantly irritate the vagina." He adds that, in the feniale, the operation above the pubes appears on every account preferable to all other methods. (See Leclures, vol. ii. p. 319.) The following passage in a modern puhlication is decidedly a mistake :—" Whenever the bladder rises fairly an inch and a half above the pubes, it is in contact with the peritoneum, lining the wall of the abdomen, in addition to its own peritoneal covering. In other words, the shining surface of the peritoneal covering of the bladder is in contact with the same surface of the peritoneum lining the mu=cles of the abdomen; so that an instrument, to penetrate this part of the organ, must traverse the peritoneum twice." {T. King, Lithotrity and Li- thotomy compared, <5'C. p. 31, 8vo. Lond. 1832.) I was once called upon to tap the bladder above the pubes, in University College Hospital, in a case of enlarged prostate gland, where the spiral course of the urethra through that body, !ind the existence of a perforation in it, frus- trated the attempts to make the catheter pass by the natural route into the bladder. The patient died on the third or fourth day after the operation. The parts, which are preserved in the museum of University College, exhibit the track of the trocar, completely below the peritoneum, which has not been penetrated at all. After the punctiu'e above the pnbes, the patient may easily lie on his side, so as to discharge all the urine contained in the bladder. [Strange to say, the error here pointed out has heen repeated in a recent work on Operative Sur- gery. Mr. Skey says, " In puncturing the bladder above the os pubis, the trocar passes through two layers of peiitoneum, viz., the layer which lines the ahdominal muscles, and that which forms the ex- ternal coat of the bladder. I am aware that this opinion is not a general one, for it is more consonant with common belief that the peritoneum is detached from the os pubis, and from the bladder, in cases of great distension of this organ. But in fevour of my own opinion, I would point to the wonderful extensibility of the serous membrane in hernia, and ask the physiologist wlitther it is possible that because the bladder is unnaturally, or rather un- usually distended, nature would deprive it of the most extensible of its coats." {Skey, Op. Surg. p. 516.) The physiologist would probably reply, that the peritoneum is a membrane possessing e.x- toubibility and elasticity only in a very limited de- gree, remarkable, in fact, rather for the absence of these qualities; and that the gradual formation of a hernial sac, is altogether a diilerent thing from the rapid dilatation which would be necessary to enable tlie peritoneum to surround a distended bladder in a case of retention of urine. And the uuatoMiist might add, that the remains of the urachus and umbilical arteries passing upwards from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus, must necessarily prevent the peritoneum forming a fold between the bladder and abdominal parietes in the manner suggested.] 3. Puncture from the Rectum. This method is not, like the puncture in the perineum, liable to the objection, that the wound is made in diseased or inflamed parts, which after- wards become gangrenous. Nor is it, like the puncture above the pubes, attended with a chance of the urine diffusing itself in the cellular tissue. It has also the advantage of emptying the bladder com- pletely. It is attended with little pain, since there is no skin nor muscles to be wounded, but merely the coats of the bladder and rectum, at a point where these viscera lie in contact with each other. We read in the Phil. Trans, for 1770', of a case of total retention of urine, from strictiue, where the bladder was successfully punctured from the rectum. The plan was suggested to Mr. Hamil- ton, who did the operation, by his feeling the blad- der exceedingly prominent in the rectum, when his finger was within the bowel. The patient was placed in the same position as that for lithotomy ; a trocar was passed along the finger into the anus, and pushed into the lowest, and most projecting part of the swelling in the direction of the axis of the bladder. A straight catheter was immediately introduced through the canula, lest the bladder, by contracting, should quit the tube, which was taken awa}', and as soon as the water was dis- charged, the catheter was also removed. Notwith- standing the puncture, the bladder retained the urine as usual until a desire to make water oc- curred. Then the opening made by the instrument seemed to expand, and the water flowed in a full stream from the anus. The urine came away in this manner for two days, after which it passed the natural way, with the aid of a bougie, which had been passed through the urethra into the bladder, and which was used till all the disease in this canal was cured. The method was originally proposed in 1750, by M. Fleurant, surgeon to La Charile, at Lyons; and Pouteau, in 1760, published an account of it, to- gether with three cases in which Fleurant had oper- ated. It was also the feel of the bladder, on the intro- duction of a finger intra anttm, which led the latter surgeon to make the puncture in this situation. The urine was immediately discharged, and the canula supported in its place with a T bandage, until the natural passage had been rendered pervi- ous again. But as the canula was left in the rec- tum, it annoyed the patient when he went to stool, and the inconvenience was vastly increased by the continual dribbling of the urine from the mouth of the instrument. Hamilton avoided both these inconveniences, by withdrawing the canula at first. In anotlier instance, however, Fleurant_ left the canula in the anus and bladder, thirty-nine days, without the least inconvenience. In order to lessen the tenesmus, and other in- conveniences attending the presence of the canula, Fleurant suggested, that it would be better to em- ploy a flexible tube, and some of the moderns approve the plan of passing a flexible cntlieter through the silver one into the bladder, and witli- drawiup the latter instrument. In the first volume of the Mem. of the Medical