ABSCESS. 11 from pyaDiiiia, glanders, and all the pustules of sniiill-pox. 2. Abscess resulting from local injiu-y ; such as punctures and bruises; whether or not complicated with the presence of foreign bodies, or impregnated with poison. 3. Abscess resulting from pre-existing disease of another part, from dis- ease of bone or joint, or from ulceration of mucous membrane of rectum, urethra, or the like. Treatment of the Acitte Abscess. — This may be divided into four branches : —1st, Measures which may be adopted to prevent suppuration, supposing it has not t;iken place, or to cause absorption of the matter, supposing it has. 2ndly. Measures in- tended to promote and hasten suppuration. 3rdly. Tiie evacuation of the matter where formed. 4thly. Tiie cure of the resisting cavity or ulcer. In the first place, then, if any given case of inflammation is seen earl)-, it will be fair to con- sider whether the patient may not be spared the pain and injury which would result from allowing it to go on to suppuration. Let us suppose, as before, an inflamed bruise or puncture, or other local injury. In this case the treatment of inflam- mation adapted to the case must be put in force. The part must be kept at rest, and elevated ; leeches applied ; warm poppy fomentation?, or cold lotions be used ; (and the patient, as stated else- where, DQ.ay be safely left to make his choice;) and, above all, a dose or two of calomel, with colocynth or senna, or Epsom salts, must be admi- nistered. By these means, probably, the inflamma- tion may abate ; should it, however, still go on to suppuration, the case must be treated as de- scribed presently. If the case be purely idiopathic, and be seen early, the practitioner must make it his duty to consider of what particular blood disorder the local inflammation is a sign, and whether he may not get rid of the materies morbi, through some of the great secreting organs. For example, a patient recovering from fever is seized with violent pain deep in the neck, witli obscure swelling, intense tenderness, and utter inability to move, and with great feverishness. Another patient has the same symptoms on the lower and inner part of the thigh. Another is seized with pain and swelling of the gums near a carious tooth. These symptoms, we are certain from experience, if unchecked, will go on to abscess. But by attending to the common principles of the treatment of inflammation, by purifying the blood, and abating local irritation, they may be made to subside. _ The first point is to produce a good discharge of bile and fa;cal matter, by repeated doses of calo- mel, carried off by purgatives, till ofitnsive, dark- coloured motions have ceased to pass. Meanwhile the patient should be in bed; the part raised, and covered with warm fomentations or poultices of bread, bran, linseed, or boiled chamomile flowers. No matter what theory may say, there is no doubt but that ivarmth and moisture are capable alike of facilitating the dispersion and the maturation of abscesses in the proper cases. The diet should be just what is reriuisite to keep the powers up to a healthy standard ; it may require to be low, middle, or high. Leeches also may be applied if the pain and tenderness arc intense. By these means, supposing all active inflamma- tion to have subsided, tlie pulse to be quiet, and the tongue clean, and the inflamed part slacker, cedemntous, and much less tender, then, whether suppuration be conceived to have taken place or no, the matter will probably be absorbed, .and the ease do well. Moderate pressure by bandages, gentle stimulation of the sutface with warm spirituous li- niments, especially the compound camphor lini- ment ; aperients, quinine, mineral acids, and other tonics, with and above all fresh air and sea- bathing, will most likely finish the cure. We hear sometimes of specific remedies adopted to hasten absorption, such as the iodine paint, or iodine liniment ; vesication with the cantharides or nitrate of silver, or the formation of pustules with tartar emetic ointment, and particularly emetics. The writer believes that if the principles laid down in the preceding paragraph are acted upon, these measures will be found unnecessary ; in case of need, however, the surgeon can try them. We purposely avoid here the question of the Venereal Bubo. The remedies adapted to prevent suppuration, maj'- be used in all cases, because if they do not prevent, they will at least lessen the amount of it; except however two most decided repressing remedies : viz. cold applications and leeches, in the use of which the surgeon shows his dis- cretion, or the want of it. As a general rule, leeches should not be used unless there is some- thing like certainty of preventing suppuration ; and cold should not be used in acute idiopathic in- flammation generally, unless the patient particu- larly wishes it. Our second branch of treatment consists in hastening suppuration, if inevitable. The means are simply abstaining from cold, leeches, and un- necessary purgation : and in the constant applica- tion of moist applications, as warm as they can be borne with comfort. Our third point relates to the evacuation of the matter ; and in most cases it is best to quicken the operations of nature, by opening the abscess. It is, or was commonly said, that abscesses may be opened by the knife, by caustic, or by seton. Setting aside the last as a barbarism, and observ- ing that the caustic is of service in cases where the skin covering an abscess is thin and sure to ulcerate, as in some buboes and carbuncles, so that the surgeon does quickly by caustic what other- wise could be done more slowly and painfully without;—we may state that the best instrument is a small straight knife, which should be plunged in at the place where there is most pointing, till it has entered the cavity, and then be made to cut half an inch to an inch and a half, as it is being withdrawn. Then the swelling should be fo° mented, and covered witli warm soft poultices, into which the matter may escape, solicited by gentle pressure. The size of the aperture should be such that the matter may run out easily, and if the case admits of choice, it should be in a depending posture. Fourthly. After the evacuation of the matter, poultices and fomentations may be continued for a day or two, until tenderness and pain cease ; thsn^ lint, dry or dipped in zinc lotion, and bandage, are the best applications, and the health should bo recruited with good diet and tonics. Trcalmoiil of ilia Chronic Abscess.—In all cases, the constitutional treatment takes precedence, and it will be the practitioner's duty to prescribe sea- air, steel, cod-liver oil, iodide (if iron or of potas- sium, and such other alteratives and tonics as