928 [HEAD, INJURIES OF THE, velope themselves, so that when seen they had the appearance and feel of the breasts of an adult virgin; he observed no diminution in his powers of locomotion, his testicles locomotion, his testicles were pendulous and flabby, and he had lost all desire for the other sex. Mr. Guthrie has met with more than one in- stance where the cerebellum has been bared by sabre-cuts without any immediate ill conseixuence.J Laceration op the Brain. [The delicate nature of the ^cerebral tissue na- turally predisposes it to laceration; and in fatal cases of injury to the skull it is common to find the brain broken up in various parts. This occurs frequently without fracture, although it is more common in extensive fractures. Laceration often re suits from the forcible driving in of spicula of bone, and from foreign bodies, as bullets and other pro jectiles. The seat of laceration, like that of con- tusion, varies, and, as has been frequently mentioned in this article, is often at a spot diametrically op- posite to that on which the original blow was inflicted. In the post-mortem examinations of fifty-three cases at the London Hospital, the brain was found to have been lacerated in thirty two near the seat of fracture; in eleven at a point diametrically opposite; and in ten it occurred in both situations. The fact is of tiie highest prac tical import in reference to the application of the trephine, especially as laceration is often accompa- nied by pressure from the blood effused from the divided vessels. The symptovLs of laceration of the brain are by no means accurately defined; they are frequently obscured by those of concussion and pressure. It sometimes happens that the ordinary symptoms of concussion are present at first, when suddenly, after a brief interval, furious delirium with con- vulsions point out to us fatal laceration. When this occurs, it is most probable that the ruptured vessels, which had previously been closed by co- agula, have become suddenly opened, and the eifusion of blood upon the delicate neurine gives rise to symptoms of laceration : in some cases this happens after a long period of comparative repose, and probably depends on inflammation of the brain. Laceration is ordinarily indicated by the follow- ing symptoms : epileptiform convulsions to a greater or less extent, loss of consciousness and furious de- lirium, stertorous breathing, great acceleration of the pulse, insensibility of the pupils, which are some- times widely dilated, sometimes contracted, and occasionally discordant; the skin, at first cold, soon becomes warm; paralysis often succeeds the con- vulsions ; there is retention, sometimes incontinence, of urine, and involuntary discharge of fa;ces; these are succeeded by profound coma, or the patient dies in a violent paroxysm of convulsions. We have known the symptoms assume a distinctly remittent character, of which the following case affords an illustration: it appears inexplicable. A man thirty-five years of age, whilst unloading a waggon of coals, fell from a height of about two feet, with a sack of coals upon his back. He was found to be quite insensible. He was immediately brought to the London Hospital; on his way thither he vo- mited several times. About an hour after the ac- cident he was in a state of partial collapse, with com skin, &c., and seemed disposed to sleep; but Toffn" answers were rational, his pupils a"'ng, though tardily. In this state he continued till the afternoon, when his pulse had become more natural and his body quite warm. He had had leeches applied to the head, and a purgative was administered. He was suddenly seized with a fit presenting all the characters of epilepsy; he be- came totally insensible; the convulsions were vio- lent, his pupils were contracted, and his breathing was loud and stertorous. The violence of the fit, which was twice repeated during the night, ren- dered it necessary to confine him in the bed. Be- tween the fits he was quite sensible when roused, but immediately relapsed into the same sleepy state. In the morning, his bowels not having acted, two drops of croton oil were given, immediately after which he vomited; some cathartic mixture was given, which operated violently. During the whole of the following day he remained in a stupe- fied sta,te, but was conscious when spoken to; his pulse was eighty, wealc, and irritable. In the evening he was attacked with a violently convulsive fit; throughout the night he slept well, and was quiet, and his bowels were moved several times. On the morning of the third day he appeared weaker; his drowsiness had increased, his pulse was labouring and only fifty-four in the minute, his head was hot, but his extremities were cold. Soon after this the nurse of the ward thought he was dying; his muscles were in a state of great rigidity, his pupils became immovable and his breathing loud and stertorous, pulse almost imper- ceptible : this condition lasted for a quarter of an hour, when his body was covered with a profuse sweat, and he said he felt better. He v/as ordered a blister to the back of the neck, and sinapisms to the calves of his legs; and mercury was adminis- tered. ^ In the evening he had another fit of an epileptic character, and afterwards relapsed into the same unconscious state. Once or twice during the night he got up in bed and sang a song cor- rectly through, when he again lay down and slept soundly. On the fourth day he was considerably worse; pulse labouring, his answers incoherent; he rose in the bed several times, sang a song, and lay down as quietly as before. He had no fit during the day; he became quite insensible at night. On the fifth day he continued much in the same state, quite insensible, his pupils acting tardily; during the night he talked incoherently, and on the morning of the sixth day he had a slight convulsive fit and died. On examination after death a fracture was found at the lower part of the right parietal bone. There was a small quantity of blood eftused ove" the whole surface of the brain, which appeare bruised. The left lateral ventricle contained a arge coaguluni of blood, which was evidently ifi'used from the rupture of a large vessel in tlie anterior lobe of the brain; this was extensively ' icerated, and the walls of the ventricle were here broken into. The obscurity of the symptoms of laceration is exemplified in the following case :—A middle-aged man was brought into the London Hospital in con- sequence of a blow over the left temple from the fall of a heavy weight. He was stunned bj' the olow, and was in a state of insensibility on admis- sion; in this state he continued to his death, which occurred six days after admission. There was an appearance of contusion in the left temporal region, with slight ecchyraosis of both eyelids. He was quite senseless, but not paralytic in either extremity. His