of development, could lie discovered. One of my own observations is as follows. Hepatic cancer from an old man, set. 80, who never had any sym- ptoms referable to the liver ; it appears as largish nodules varying in size from tliat of a pea to that of a small apple, somewhat nodulated, well defined, not encysted, depressed in the centre, where they reach the surface, and showing, on section, nume- rous dead-white spots crowded close together on a greyish translucent ground. They are very firm. The white spots consist of molecular masses of fatty matter heaped up together ; the greyish con- sists of a fibroid stratum containing more or less perfect fibres, fibre-forming nuclei, free nuclei, staif- shaped corpuscles, and granulous globules. In another case, a liver presented numerous nodules and masses of hard white cancerous looking sub- stance; in these I could find no appeaiance of can- cer cells at all, only abundance of fibre-forming solid blastema, imbedding remains of hepatic cells, and orange pigment masses. Lebert relates, p. 381, a case of hepatic scirrhus, in which he de- scribes the scirrhous fibres as thin, close, fascicu- lated, plexiform, and containing cells in their meshes. These instances seem sufficient, I think, to prove the existence of a fibrous stroma in scir- rhus of the liver; an organ, whose structure, con- sisting mainly of cells with fibrous septa only be- tween the lobules, aftbrds a favourable opportunity for distinguishing certainly the presence of new- formed fibre, Mr. Paget, after refusing the name carcinoma fibrosum {adopted by Rokitansky as a synonyme of scirrhus) to the ordinary instances of hard can- cer, says, yet there are cancers which contain not only abundant, but peculiar, fibrous tissue; and these may well be called " fibrous cancers," and may be considered as a distinct form or species, unless it should appear that they are always asso- ciated as secondary diseases with scirrhous cancers of the more ordinary structure; so that we may suppose the same blastema is in one organ deve- loped into fibrous tissue, in others, at the same time, into cancer cells. Fibrous cancer of the ovarij, affecting one or both, coexists, according to ilr. Paget, with common hard cancer of the breast or stomach. The ovary is replaced " by a nodu- lated mass of uniformly hard, heavy, white, and fibrous tissue." The mass is very tough, and its component fibres, though too slender to be mea- sured, are peculiarly hard, compact, closely and irregularly woven ; they are not mingled with elastic fibres. But few and imperfect cancer cells are present, and more numerous nuclei elongated and slender. The unossified parts of osteoid can- cer seem to belong to the same class. The distinc- tion which Mr. Paget attempts to sustain between fibrous stroma of cancer developed fnim its specific blastema, and that which is derived from the ori- ginal fibrous tissue of the affected organ, whether in its natural state, or increased, condensed, or otherwise morbidly changed, does not seem to be well established. Who can doubt that morbidly changed fibrous tissue in cancer is modified in such wise that it has become itself cancerous ! With respect to the vessels of a scirrhous tu- mor, all that needs to be said is that they are scanty. Dr. Carswell's account of a proper circu- lation must be considered rather mythical, although it is quite possible that blood and vessels may be formed in the morbid growth without being thrown CANCER. 379 out as loops from those naturally existing. An unusual development of such would give the hte- matoid character. No lymphatics, or nerves, of new formation have been found in scirrhus. Very little information of any value has yet been obtained respecting the chemical constitution of scirrhus. It does not appear to contain any gelatine, or animal extractive, and a less proportion of albumen and fatty matter than encephaloid, but, on the other hand, nearly twice the amount of in- organic saline compounds in the latter, Miiller considers casein to be very imiformly present in mammary scirrhus, although not derived from the lactiferous ducts,] Description of various conditions of cancer. —A truly scirrhous tumor of the breast, capable of changing into open cancerous ulceration, and of a certain size, is described by Sir Everard Home as hard, heavy, and closely connected with the mammary gland, and when moved the whole gland moves along with it. When, indeed, all the following characters are present, no doubt can exist about the nature of the disease : an early puckering of the integuments ; a dull brown, or leaden coloured appearance of them ; a knotted uneven feel of the swelling ; occasional darting pains in it: an early fixed attachment of it to the skin above, and pectoral muscle underneath ; and a retraction of the nipple. According to Sir Charles Bell, it is the ligamentous bands which produce the retraction of the nipple, by extending between its ducts ; and destroying its spongy tex- ture. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol, xii, p. 233.) Mr. Travers's description of the external cha- racters of scirrhus is one of the best which I am acquainted with. "Hardness (says he), with in- crease of weight, inelasticity or toughness in some cases, knotty or craggy induration in others. Cir- cumscription and mobility beneath the skin in its earliest stage, but not to such a degree in the sub- jacent bed as to allow of the fingers passing be- neath the tumor and turning its edge upwards. Next, 2. e. m the second stage, close adhesion to the tegument, and such incorporation with the glandular organ, in which it is seated, as to have no mobility but that of the gland itself upon the parts beneath. The adhesion of the skin either stretches, or partially retracts and puckers it, according to the smooth or unequal surface of the tumor or to the close or loose attachment and particular conformation of the integument at the spot, as, for example, next the nipple,-and at a distance from t; or beneath the mucous membrane of the pylo- ■us, or rectum, and the common integument of the body. Third stage : contraction and diminution ly pressure of volume in the gland as the tumor mcreases. Abrupt projection of one large coloured tubercle ; sometimes of several smaller tubercles or nodules. Irreducibleness of volume and hard- ness by topics or medicine. Transient pains, which lave been hitherto obscure and occasional now more distmct and frequent, like the pricking of a sharp instrument, with a sense of heat, or burnine Uusky or livid-red colour of the skin, with re- splendent tension. Excoriation or cracking of the skin at the summit or base of the tubercles, and fungous elevations, with ichorous and sanious ooz- ing. Neither of these signs is individually diag- nostic." (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xv. 205?) To continue the same gentleman's description the ulcerative process at length opens the tumor,