1068 HYDROPHOBIA seventy-two instances it is noted that the nervous sensibility was so extreme that these terrible attacks were brought on by anything which pro- duced a current of air, blowing, breathing, brush- ing away flies, or opening doors. In eighteen cases a light, a polished surface, or a bright colour in- duced the same distress. In other instances it followed such causes as a sudden noise, pungent odours, the vapour of chloroform and ether. The intellect remained clear until the last, when long Buffering and debility brought delirium. But the mind was filled with the most gloomy fore- bodings, the countenance exhibited extreme dis tress and anxiety, and in the intervals of the attacks the patients sank into the deepest dejection. They rarely slept unless under the influence of power- ful opiates. The intervals between the paroxysms became gradually shorter as the disease advanced; commonly they lasted but a few moments; some- times, however, much longer. IVxeanwhile the pulse became progressively more frequent and weaker in the seventy-eight cases in which it is recorded. It presented frequently a remarkable irregularity of rhythm. For instance, in one case the number rf beats in a quarter of a minute, were 32, 28, 25, and 24; and in another case, in the third of a minute, 34, 34, and 27; and again, 40, 25, and 21. (S7niih, N. Y. Journal of Med. vol. xvi. N.S.) There was extreme thirst, dis- tension and constipation, of the intestinal system, and in twentj'-eight cases vomiting, usually within a few hours of death, and of a daik, coffee-like sub- stance, probably spoiled blood. This symptom shortly preceded death, and at this stage the pa- roxysms have often ceased, the patient has be- come calm, sometimes delusive hopes have entered his mind, and the mind of his attendant ; but it is the calm of exhaustion, and immediately precedes death. This should not be forgotten in the esti- mation of the effects of medicines administered. Hawking and spitting of a viscid saliva are symp- toms raie in the first stages of this disease, but of common occurrence in the last.] It is not altogether uncommon for a period to occur when the horror of liquids undergoes a con- siderable diminution, or even entirely ceases, the patient quenching his thirst, and this sometimes as well as if he were in perfect health, and so as to raise doubts of the existence of rabies. But after a few hours, the dread of fluids comes on again, and with it the convulsive paroxysms, which now be- come general, violent, and incessant. Dr. Cayol attended a girl labouring imder rabies, who was never affected with any great dread of liquids, nor an absolute inability to swallow them, though she certainly disliked them, and swallowed them with difficulty. {Journ. de Med. Chir, ^c. Avril 1811, p. 241.) Nay, patients are sometimes seen who can manage to swallow red wine and broth, though- their aversion to water is already beyond all con- trol, and other patients can sometimes look at a liquid in a black pot without inconvenience, though any fluid offered to them in a glass will bring on a violent paroxysm of spasm and sense of suffocation. The sight of tears has even been enough to bring on the attack. (See Diet, dcs Sciences Med. t. xlvii. p. 79.) [An inclination to bite was described in the case recorded by Dr. Powell, and also in another re- ported by Magendie, as well as in that reported in ouiiman s Journal, and above alluded to. Yet this disposition never presented itself in any of the cases which fell under the observation of the author of the article Rage in the foregoing publication, or of P. Desault, Duchatel, Dr. J. Vaughan, Sabatier, Dupuytren, Smith, Radcliffe, Tamhayn, Wagner, Wittcke, Voltolini, Adam, &c. &c. And even when the patient's imagination is so disordered that he cannot help biting, he commonly warns the bystanders to avoid the danger. Tlie weight of evidence does not allow us to admit the tendemy to bite as a real symptom of hydrophobia. The cases in which it has been observed are for the most part doubtful instances of the disease, or cases in which the imagination has been disordered, and the patient has yielded to its diseased suggestions. The frothy saliva which is voided with consider- able and repeated efforts, is a symptom which is said not to commence before the respiration begins to be convulsive. As the disease advances there is no remission of the sputation necessary to clear the throat of that viscous secretion, and at the approach of death, when it cannot be expelled, it collects in the mouth and covers the patient's lips.] The symptoms of what is termed cerebral ex- citement become stronger and more marked in the second stage of the disease. The eyes, the bright- ness of whiih is still further incjeased, appear, as it were, inflamed, the patient never shuts them again, and as the daylight and brilliant colours are offensive, he prefers darkness. The hearing be- comes very acute, and, as well as the sight, is trou- bled with hallucinations. The touch is extremely fine, the speech abrupt and rapid, and the conver- sation energetic, and often expressive of the most touching sentiments. {Did. des Sciences Mid, t. xlvii. p. 12.) Dr. Marshall Hall made a very just distinction between the real convulsions which came on to- wards the termination of the case in death, and the strong, sudden action of the muscles excited in the course of the disorder by the light, the sight of liquids, and the feel of the air. {The Morbid Anatomy of the Brain, S,'C.-^. 38-) Convulsions and hiccough, in fact, are the symptoms of dissolution, Delirium is far from being a constant symptom, and only happens on the last day of the disorder; neitlier is it always without remissions, for the patients affected with it sometimes give rational replies. Most cases upon record, where delirium is described as being one of the first symptom?, or as first coming on with the dread of liquids, are set down on good authority not as true rabies, but as symptomatic hydrophobia, attended with mania. [But three undoubted cases of early delirium have been noted in modern days. In one the patient was under the influence of Cannabis Indica, and in two others the patients were in a public institution, and subject to annoya-ice and excitement from being surrounded by students a"" the curious.] The diead of swallowing liquids, though the most singular symptom of the disease, constitutes but a small part of it. It is true that none, or very few, recover who have this symptom, yet they certainly do not die in consequence of tlic dim- culty of swallowing liquids, for the human body could easily exist double the time, at the end ol which the disease usually proves fatal wifhou' food or drink. Besides, the sick can often swallow substances that are nourishing in a pulpy state, witliout their lives being thereby at all prolongeO'