107 AMPUTATION. j ; r. Ilusse)' above related, and another alluded j by Mr. Fonwick, as having occurred in the j I Lisgow Infirmary (see Ed. Month. Jotirn. Oct. ! 17, p. 248), appear to be the only recorded instances. Many surgeons hesitate to perform it, knowing the dangerous consequences of wounds . of the knee-joint, and fearful of similar results • from its exposure in amputation. Indeed, although ■ the two cases are not exactly similar, experience ■ shows that there is ground for apprehension on • this score ; M. Velpeau lost three cases from purulent inflammation "in the large and deep 1 synovial cul-de-sac which is prolonged upon the 1 sides of the condyles and upon the anterior surface I of the femur ; " the suppuration from which ex- I tended upwards amongst the muscles of the thigh ; ; and he refers to four other cases which proved I fatal from the same cause. The American sur • I geons however, have been more fortunate in this re- I spect. Dr. Stephen Smith says:—" Fearful as are ■ the results of the inflammatory process instantly lighted up in ordinary wounds of the knee-joint, 1 dangerous consequences from this source are rare I exceptions in the severer wound of the bisection of 1 this articulation in amputation." (On Amp. of the . Knee-joint, N. Y.Journ. of Med. Nov. 1852, p. 325.) Admitting this danger, however, there appears I to be sufficient evidence to establish the expe- I diency of the operation in suitable cases, whetiier (of injury or disease. The mortality appears to ! be certainly not greater than after amputation of tthe thigh. According to the statistics given by Dr. Markoe, the mortality in the two cases is 37 ! per cent, as compared with 43^ ; the advantage being thus 6| per cent, in favour of amputation at t the knee. But even if the mortality were equal in the two cases, amputation at the knee deserves preference on account of the very decided advantage which it affords the patient for progression. There is ample evidence that the stump is capable of sup- porting the weight of the body without pain or inconvenience; and the extent of surface and rounded form of the condyles admirably adapt it for this purpose. From the power of supporting pressure results the further advantage, alluded to by Velpeau, that the free play of the hip-joint is preserved ; whereas after amputation of the ■ thigh, the artificial limb has to take its bearings from the pelvis, and the patient walks as if he had an anchylosis of the hip-joint, all his motions being made by the pelvis, and not at the coxo- femoral articulation. In comparing the results of different modes of operating it will be found, that the cases which have been attended with the most striking success have unquestionably been those in wiiich the prin- cipal covering has been obtained from the anterior aspect of the joint. This object may be attained cither by the elliptical incision of M. Baudcns or by the large anterior and short posterior flap re- commended by the American surgeons, and adopted ; in'Mr. Lane's and Mr. Blenkins's cases. These methods are preferable to Mr. Velpcau's circular incision, because they remove the cicatrix to a position where it will not suffer irritation from pressure, and they possess several important advan- tages over the large posterior flap, which was re- commended by Hoin. The integument in front of the knee is much better organized for bearing pressure than that of the calf; it is, in fact, the very same which is found to bear the weight of the body so well in the kneeling position and after amputation below the knee. The flap falls at once of its own accord over the end of the bone ; the position of the wound is depending and allows the discharge to escape without difficulty ; the main artery is cut through before its division, and fewer ligatures will be required. The flap from the calf, on the contrary, cannot be adapted without bending it at an angle which is unnatural to it, and it tends by its own weight to fall away from the end of the bone ; the wound is not so advantageously placed and many more arteries will require to be ligatured. The patella when sound should always be re- tained ; it affords a fixed point for the action of the extensor muscles, and these muscles will retract it suflrciently to prevent its interfering with the rounded form of the stump, while its removal would increase materially the surface of the wound. When the cartilage on the femur is healthy, it should not be interfered with. Its presence does not impede the immediate union of the wound, whereas, by sawing off a slice of the bone an in- jured surface is substituted for a healthy one, with an additional risk of suppurative phlebitis from exposure of the veins in the cancellated texture j besides which, the rounded form of the condyles, which is one of the leading advantages of the oper- ation, is thereby destroyed. M. Velpeau believes that adhesion always takes place between the flap and the cartilaginous surface, even in those cases where the wound unites by the first intention, and where no undue inflammation is excited. Thia adhesion, however, is not the invariable rule, for in Mr. Lane's case the patella and the flap re' mained distinctly moveable on the condyles beneath. When the wound does not unite by the first ini- tention, and suppuration ensues, the cartilage will either exfoliate in fragments from the surface of the bone beneath, or it will undergo gradual disin- tegration, and be removed with the discharge, and the granulations from the bone will then coalesce with the granulations on the flap. (See Remarks ON Amputation at the Joints, ante, p. 71.) Amputation through the Condi/les of the Femur. . In 1845 Mr. Syme published a paper advocating amputation at the knee, or more correctly speak- ing, through the condyles of the femur, by which method he had operated successfully in two cases of diseased knee-joint. His principal reason for so doing, in preference to amputating the thigh in its lower third, was his belief that division of the cancellated texture of a bone is not so likely to be folio wed by inflammation of the medullary mem- brane and exfoliation as when the dense substance of the shaft is sawn through. Mr. Syme does not consider the state of the soft parts, usually met with in diseased joints, a sufficient reason for ope- rating higher up, since, "however mucli tliey may bo _ altered by scrofulous degeneration or suppuration they readily admit of restoration to their natural condition," as is clearly shown by the results of excision of joints. In his first case Mr Byrne " made an incision across the knee in a line with the upper edge of the patella, then pushed tlu! knife from one side to the other under the joint, cut a flap from the calf of tlio leg, and finally sawed through the condyles of the thigh bone which were ulcerated and carious." Finding he had not quite sullicicnt covering in this way ho made, in his second case, "the anterior scmilunai-