717 FRACTURE. trie shoulder by pushing the humerus upwards, when a crepitus will be perceptible to the surgeon's hand applied over the acromion on the limb being rotated. The patient feels a sense of weight, as if his arm were dropping off, and there is but little power to raise the limb. Treaimcnl.—The fractured acromion requires the larm to be so raised that the head of the os brachii ■ will push up the acromion, while an assistant pushes ■ the scapula forward and downward in a contrary direction to that of the ami. To maintain this posi- ; tion, a circular bandage is to be applied round the . arm and body. Desault used to apply also a wedge-shaped I cushion under the axilla before putting on tiie bandage, in order to make the head of the os brachii project more upward on bringing the arm rnear the side ; but Sir Astley Cooper finds that a . cushion so placed does harm by throwing the head of the OS humeri outward, and widely separating the acromion from the spine of the scapula. He : approves of raising the elbow and keeping the arm fixed. He also relaxes the deltoid muscle by : means of a cushion put between the elbow and : the side, the elbow inclining a little backwards ; '. the limb is to be bound to the chest in this posi- ■ tion with a roller. The union may take place by bone, but, owing to the difficulty of maintaining the coaptation, the uniting substance is generally ligamentous. (See Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations, ip. 455.) '■ Fractures of the Humerus. [The humerus m.iy be broken at any point of its length or at either of its extremities. The • fractures of each of these divisions of the bone differ so much in their characters that each will ; necessarily require to be separately considered.] ] Fradiires nf the Upper Extremity of llie Humerus. [The injuries occurring to this portion of the bone must again be subdivided into—\, fractures of the stirgical neck ; 1, fractures of the anatomical neck; and 3, fractures of the tuberosities. The ' surgical neck is that part of the bone which is bounded above by the tuberosities, and below by commencement of the insertion of the muscles attached to the margins of the bicipital groove, viz. the pectoralis major, the latissimus dorsi, and teres major. The anatomical neck is the circular narrowing which separates the tuberosities from the head. The term extracapsular has also of late years been applied to designate the former, and intracapsular the latter class of cases. Separation of the epipliysis from the shaft of tlic bone not uu- frequently happens in young persons, and tills shuuld be considered as a variety of the fracture of the surr/ical, and not of the imalomical neck, as it was described by Sir A. Cooper, since the line of union of the epiphysis witii the shaft is situated below the tuberosities. Sir A. Cooper described the line of union of tlie epiphysis as the ana- tomical neckj while lie spoke of the surgical neck as extending from the articulation as low down as the insertion of the coraco-bracliialis and deltoid muscles. This description, from so eminent an authority, lias given rise to consid- erable confusion, but it will be understood that in the present edition of this dictionary the terms are used strictly in nccordanco with the limitations above given.] , 1. Fracture of the surr/ical neck.—[This is the most frequent injury met with at this end of the bone ; it is generally caused either by a direct blow, or by a fall on the shoulder with the arm in contact with the side.] An acute pain is experienced at the moment of the fall; sometimes the noise of something break- ing is heard. There is always a sudden inability to move the limb, which, left to itself, remains motionless. But, on external force being applied, it readily yields, and admits of being moved with the greatest ease in every direction. Such motion is attended with severe pain, and if carried too far may cause ill consequences, as has been observed in patients in whom the fracture has been mistaken for dislocation. Fractures of the neck of the humerus are alwaj's attended with displacement, produced by the action of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major, which, being attached to the lower portion near its superior extremity, draw it first inward and then upward, in which last direc- tion it is also powerfully urged by the biceps, coraco- brachialis, and long portion of the triceps. In this case the superior portion itself is directed a little outward bj' the action of the- infra-spinatus, supra-spiuatus, and teres minor, which make the head of the humerus perform a rotatory motion in the glenoid cavit}"-. Below the acromion a depression is remarkable, always situated lower down than that which at- tends a dislocation. If we place one hand on the head while the lower part of the bone is moved in various directions with the other hand; or if, while extension is made, an assistant communi- cates to the bone a rotatory motion, the following circumstances are perceived :—1, the head of the humerus remains motionless ; 2, a more or less distinct crepitus is felt arising from the two ends of the fracture rubbing against each other. These two symptoms are characteristic of the accident, but the swelling of the joint may prevent- us from detecting them. Sometimes there is no displacement of the ends of the fracture, and then, as most of the symptoms are absent, the diagnosis is more difficult. In general, however, the ends of the fracture are dis- placed, and in this circumstance it is the lower one which is out of its proper position, and not the upper one, which is of little extent, and is not acted upon by many muscles. The displacement is generally not voiy percep- tible in regard to length, unless the fr.acture be very oblique, and its pointed spicuhi irritate the muscles and make tlicm contract with increased power; or unless the blow, which was violent, continued to operate after the bono liad been broken and forced the ends of the fracture from their 6t;ite of apposition. In this way the body of the humerus hiis been drawn or driven upward, so as to protrude through the deltoid muscle and integuments far above the height of the head of llio bone. But commonly, as Petit observes, the weight of the limb powerfully resists the action of tlic muscles, and the displacement of the fracture is more liable to be transverse. In this circumstance the lower end of the fracture is displaced inward, and rarely in any other direction. In the most frequent case the elbow is separated from the trunk, and cannot be brought near it without pain.