HEENIA. 961 mences in the cord. " Nothing," says Sir Astley Cooper, " but great want of attention can cause a hernia to be confounded with an enlargement of the testis. This latter is sufficiently distinguish- able, not only by the absence of symptoms charac- terising hernia," but also by the form of the gland, its weight, the pain, and that peculiar and intole- rable sensation always produced by pressure on this organ. (Obs.) lisematocele is recognised from a hernial tumor by adverting to its cause, which is a wound or con- tusion of the scrotum; its firmness; the attendant dark redness of the skin; its freedom from im- pulse when the patient coughs, and of the up- per part of the cord from swelling. (Sir A. Cooper, ib.) Hernia may be complicated either with hydro- cele or sarcocele. Sir A. Cooper mentions an in- stance in which there was on each side a diseased testicle, and a hydrocele communicating with the abdomen. (Ore//ernta, ed. 2, part i. p. 17.) See Hydrocelk. Inguinal Hernia within the Canal. When the parts only protrude into the inguinal canal, and not out of its lower aperture, they are covered by the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. The transverse and internal oblique mus- cles pass over the neck of the hernia, and cause the strangulation when it happens. The tumor is small; for, if the protrusion increases, the parts escape through the lower opening of the canal. Exceptions, however, are on record. Thus, Mr. Lawrence dissected a case in a female, where the aponeurosis of the external oblique was distended by a swelling equal in bulk to two fists, while another portion of the sac, as large as an egg, pro- jected through the ring. Hesselbach's 8th plate also represents a hernia within the canal, of con- siderable size, in a female. As, in the ordinary circumstances of this form of inguinal hernia, there is no very manifest swelling, the case is no doubt often looked upon and treated, as Sir Astley Cooper remarks, as an inflammation of the bowels. (On Inguinal and Congenital Hernia, p. 48.) When an inguinal hernia does not descend through the abdominal ring, butonly into the canal for the spermatic cord, it is covered by the apo- neurosis of the externa] oblique muscle, and the swelling is small and undefined, [This kind of hernia is often called a bubono- cele, or incomplete inguinal hernia ] Now and then, the testicle does not descend into the scrotum till a late period, and its first appear- ance at the ring, in order to get into its natural situation, may bo mistaken for a hernia; unless the surgeon pay attention to the absence of the testicle from the scrotum, and the peculiar sensation occa- sioned by pressing the swelling. Points ofDifpekence between the Exter- nal AND Internal Inguinal Hernia, &c. According to Hesselbach, the characteristic marks of the external bubonocele and scrotal hernia are: 1st. The direction of the tumor in the groin. 2nd!y. The fleshy fibres of the cre- master. 3rdly, The position of the spermatic cord and testis. 4thly. The situation of the epi- gastric artery. Sthly. The origin of the hernia itself. Gthly. A preternatural shape of the body of the hernial sac. 1. The neck of the hernial sac, distended by the protruded viscera, raises up the front side of the inguinal canal, and superincumbent integuments, into an oblong swelling, which extends obliquely inwards and downwards towards the abdominal ring, and terminates in the tumor, formed by the body of the hernial sac. From its origin it becomes gradually more prominent and broad; and the greater the quantity of viscera protruded, and the larger the body of the sac, the more manifest is this oblique swelling, particularly when the neck of the hernia is of its natural length. In strangu- lated cases, the direction of the tumor is still more striking, every part of the hernial sac being then considerably distended. When the inguinal canal, and of course the neck of the hernial sac, are short- ened, the swelling undergoes a proportional diminu- tion in its length; and then its resemblance, to the tumor attending an internal or direct inguinal hernia, where the opening through which the parts pass is long and slanting, is so great, that the cases can only be discriminated by one circumstance, viz., the situation of the spermatic cord; and even this criterion is of course wanting in females. (Hessel- bach, p. 57, 58.) Hesselbach clearly explains, that the obliquity of the swelling is seated in the neck of the hernial sac. He observes, that when an internal inguinal hernia in a female subject passes into the labium, the descent takes place in a very sloping direction inwards, and therefore it may at first be supposed to be an external case. But, on further examination, the oblique swelling will be found to occupy the body of the hernial sac, and to reach upwards and outwards from the labium to the external abdominal ring Now, if this point be attended to, this hernia cannot be mistaken for an external bubonocele, the course of which from the external ring is obliquely upwards and out- wards. As Sir Astley Cooper has remarked, if there be any obliquity of an internal or direct inguinal hernia, it will incline towards the linea alba. Hesselbach reminds us, that an internal inguinal or scrotal hernia may be conjoined with an ex- ternal incomplete bubonocele ; a kind of case easily made out with a little attention; for the place of division between the two sacs is indicated by a more or less deep groove. The nature of tho disease will also be still clearer, if one of the tumors admit of reduction. A specimen of such a double hernia is to be seen in the museum at Wurzburg. It is further noticed by Hesselbach, that when the situations of the external and internal hernije are compared, the first of these swellings will be found to bo rather further than the other from the symphysis of the pubes ; a diflference ascribed to theeifect of the nitcrnal oblique muscle, the lower fibres of which, inserted into the linea iiio-pec- tinca, run in a curved direction transverselv over the anterior and inner part of the neck of the liernial sac, and are applied so closely to it that it cannot approach quite so much towards the symphysis of the pubes, na the neck of tiic internal hernia does. 2. Most of the fibres of the creraaster lie on the back of the neck of the sac, but others are also scattered over its external and internal sides Some fibres may also be perceived on its fore part* which are remarkable, because tliey run in a trans- vcrae curved direction with their convexity do'wn- 3 Q