97 AMPUTATION. bandaging would of itself bo sufficient to kill the Ihip." (Sec Lancet, vol. i. 1!!55, p. 307.) Mr. !?yme insists that the flap should be completely st pamted from the os calcis before the joint is disarticulated ; he strongly disapproves of the plan which some have adopted of first cutting through the joint, and then dissecting the flap from behind f irward off the os calcis, believing that the vessels are more likely to be injured by so doing. Some modifications in the operative procedure have been since suggested. Mr. Quain, in order to facilitate the dissection of the flap, proposes, " after the incision fi'om malleolus to malleolus under the os calcis, to make a straight incision at light angles with the first, to the back part of the heel on the outer side of the foot, a little above and parallel with its outer margin." (See Med. Times, Oct. 10, 1857, p. 370.) Dr. Handyside has sug- gested "an tero-lateral flaps," the incisions commenc- ing in front of the joint and terminating in the centre of the sole of the foot, just in front of the ball of the heel. The cicatrix would be vertical in direc- tion and placed anteriorly.. The thick integument of the heel would still form the basis of support. The late Dr. R. J. Mackenzie proposed to form an internal lateral flap in the following manner:— '■ The point of the knife is entered in the mesial line of the posterior surface of the ankle on.a level with the articulation,, carried down obliquely across the tendo Achillis towards the external border of tlie plantar surface of the heel, along which it is continued in a semilunar direction. The incision is then curved inwards across the sole of the foot,.and terminates on the inner side of the tendon of the tibialis anticiis, about an inch in front of the inner malleolus. The second incision is carried across the outer aspect of the ankle in a semilunar direc- tion between the extremities of the first incision, the convexity downwards,and passing half an inch below the external malleolus. The flap is now dissected up, care being taken that the knife cuts close to. the bones, so as to preserve the whole thickness of the soft parts. By holding the base of the flap between the fingers and thumb, as it is detached from the bones, ail risk of wounding the arterj' is avoided. The foot is then severed at the articulation, and the ends of the tibia and fibula cleared, so as to allow of the application of the saw, by which a thin slice of the extremities of the bones is removed, as in Syme's operation. The stump which is left differs from that formed by Syme's operation only in the situation of the cica- trix, whicii is here on the fibular side of tiie stump. With an artificial foot, the patients are able to walk with ease, and with slightly perceptible lameness, the weight of the body resting on the face of the stump." (Ed. Monthly Journal, Aug. I!i4.0.) Dr. Mackenzie had operated in this way twice, and Dr. Maclagan three times, with satis- factory results, but in one ca-.e in which the po.ste- rior tibial artery was wounded the flap sloughed. The only merit claimed for this operation over that of Mr. byme is its greater facility of performance, and its adaptation to cases where the integuments on the outer side of the foot are diseased, as they not unfrequently are. M. J. Iloux has also pro- posed an operation very similar to that just de- scrilied. (See Mah/aiync, Med. Oper. p. 314.) Mr. Syme believes amputation at the ankle-joint I to be applicable to many cases of disease or injury of the bones of the foot, or even of the ankle-joint itself, in which formerly it was customary to re- move the leg just below the knee. An extended exper ence of it has convinced him, that a very useful stump will be obtained, well calculated for bearing pressure in consequence of the thick in- teguments of the heel being made use of to cover the ends of the bones, and that with the aid of an artificial foot the patients will be able to walk without difficulty, and with no very serious degree of lame- ness. The principal advantages claimed for this opera- tion by Mr. Syme are; first, that no more of the limb is removed than is absolutely necessary, the diseased portion alone being taken away, and con- sequently the danger to life is reduced to the lowest possible degree ; secondly, that the risk of exfolia- tion of bone from inflammation of the medullary membrane and of phlebitis is lessened, because cancellated instead of dense bone is sawn through, and the medullary canal is not exposed; thirdly, that the stump is able to bear the weight of the body in progression, without pain or inconvenience. The first of these advantages would be of greater importance,, if amputation through the calf of the leg were necessarily the alternative, for Mr. Syme is no doubt correct in thinking, that the risk to life is much less in amputiiting at the ankle-joint than in amputating below the knee at the usual place of election ; and it is with amputation at this level that he has always drawn the comparison. The comparison, however, should rather be made iDetween amputation at th& ankle and amputation in the lower third of the leg, and then the differ- ence in risk will not be very appreciable, or vvill even be in favour of the amputation in the lower third of the leg. In fact, in this latter situation, although an inch or two more bone is taken away, the wound is considerably smaller than in ampu- tating at the joint, and it will certainly heal with much greater facility.. Neither will many surgeons attach much importance to the alleged advantage of sawing through the bone in its cancellated tex- ture ; Miv Syme himself does not now persist in advocating it in all cases. (See Amputation of Knee-Joint.) The main advantage then of am- putation at the ankle consists in the usefulness of the stump which is formed, and in this particular it seems to be deserving of all that has been said in its favour by Mr. Syme and others. The stumps after ankle-joint amputations are in fact almost the only ones that can be at all relied on for supporting the weiglit of the body. The principal objections which liave been urged against it are, its difficulty of performance, the tendency to sloughing of the flap, and the slowness with which the wound is found to heal even under the most favourable circumstances. The first of these objections, niimely, difficulty in the operative proce- dure, is not one of any great moment, since any sin-- geon with moderate powers of manipulation will, with a little practice, be enabled to perform it with ease. The liability to slomjhing of the flap is a more important disadvantage; it has seldom, how- ever, been of any great extent, and though it has of course delayed the cure, it has not nuu'h inter- fered with the subseqiu'nt usefulness of the sfuntp. According to Mr. Syme it is more frequently the fault of the operator than of the operation. " The delay ifhich often occurs in the healiny of the ivnimd is another, and perhaps more serious inconvenience • for it is useless to anticipate that so extensive a II