892 of the orbit, as a sign of fractured base, is over- estimated. When haemorrhage occurs from the nose and mouth m fractured base, it is usually traceable to tlie mischief done to the ethmoid and sphenoid bones. Under these circumstances the blood is often swallowed and passes into the stomach, whence, afteraccumulation, it is ejected by vomiting; but this is so frequently the result of simple con- cussion that no great reliance is to be placed on it as a sign of fractured base. Severe injuries to the skull, with or without fracture, result occasionally in some curious change ]n the arteries of the orbit, which it is exceedingly difficult to explain ; we allude to cases of supposed traumatic aneurism. Whatever be the nature of such cases, they are always characterised by dis- tinctly pulsating swelling of the orbit. They are usually accompanied by pain in the orbit and in the globe of the eye, and impaired vision, and the eye is often protruded to a considerable extent. We have witnessed two cases of this description at the London Plospital; they are both alluded to by Mr. Ilewett, and are described in the Medico-Chirurgi- cal Transaciions. In both the pulsation commenced in the orbit a very short time after the accident; in the one the pulsation was general over the upper and lower part of the orbit, in the other it was principally confined to the upper part of that cavity. The first case occurred to the late Mr. John Scott, and was remarkable from the circumstance that profuse arterial ha;morrhage suddenly occurred into the corresponding nostril on two occasions. The common carotid artery was tied. The other was treated in a similar manner by Mr. Curling, and both with complete success. In the latter case the disease was not recognised, and possibly did not exist, until five weeks after the original injury to the head. There is no doubt that in the former case a fracture of the os planum of the ethmoid had happened, and that the bleeding took place through this into the'nose: it is impossible, however, to verify this opinion. But Hewett quotes another instance from the same work {Med. CMr. Trans.) which is remarkable from the fact that the disease did not make its appearance until six months after the accident, when a pulsating tumor appeared at the upper and inner part of the orbit, just within the supraciliary ridge; it was attended with a loud whizzing noise when examined with the stethoscope over the inner canthus of the eye. The case pre- sented unmistakable signs of fracture of the base of the skull, and Mr. Busk, who attended the case, having ascertained that pressure on the common carotid stopped the pulsation in the tumor, placed a ligature on that vessel, and the pulsation entirely ceased. I here is some difference of opinion as to the pre- cise nature of the lesion in these cases. Most probably there are three distinct conditions oc- casionally existing : in one there can be little or no doubt of the existence of a spurious aneurism, wtiilst in the second the disease represents that curious alteration in the arteries recognised as aneurism by anastomosis ; and in the third wo suspect the aneurism becomes diffused. The farst and last forms of disease occur in cases ant iimwr'^T" Bpontaneous acddeT independent of any HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. The signs of fractured base hitherto considered are by no means positive, for they may exist sepa- rately or collectively without fracture ; but the escape of cerebral matter and serum from the ear may be regarded as truly pathognomonic symptoms of this accident. The escape of serum from the ear in large quantities has been long observed by sur- geons, and has been especially mentioned by Colles as clearly indicating a fracture through the petrous portion of the temporal bone. We have witnessed two cases of this; but as both recovered, although they each offered other signs of fractured base, some doubt may exist as to their true nature. In one of these cases a very large quantity of limpid fluid oozed through the auditory meatus, amply suf- ficient to keep the pillows constantly wet. The discharge commences usually three or four days after the accident, and continues for an in- definite period. Mr. Colles, in allusion to this accident, quotes the following words from Dease : "As a patient with one of these injuries lies in bed, it will some- times be perceived that the external auditory canal will be filled with clear lymph, which rises to a certain height, but does not overflow. You get a piece of sponge and sop up this ; but the ear again quickly fills, as often as you try the experiment." Dease believed all such cases to be fatal. Mr. Hewett has traced the history of our know- ledge on this interesting point, and has exhausted the subject in all its practical bearings. The fact was noticed as early as 1518, and two cases were published by Stalpertius van der Wiel, in 1727. In the first case it was supposed that at least a pint of fluid must have escaped, and yet the pa- tient recovered; in the second the patient was believed to have lost as much as 81bs. of watery fluid from the ear, but the result is not given. Mr. Hewett quotes two cases which came under his own observation ; the first was imder the care of Mr. Csesar Hawkins; it occurred to a man tet. 52, who had fallen four days before, and struc' the back part of his head. He was admitted in' St. George's Hospital with a profuse discharge o clear watery fluid from the ear : it had been ob served immediately after the accident. The flui was of a pinkish hue, dropped freely from the ear, the flow being increased when he was spealcing. He had symptoms of pressure on his brain. Ou examination after death, a fracture was traced across the petrous portion of the temporal bone; it had traversed the meatus internus and superior semicircular canal ; it had passed through the ves- tibule, and had reached the tympanum, the cavity of which was widely open. The membrana tynipani was ruptured in two places. It was found that a bristle passed to the bottom of the meatus internus made its way into the tympanic cavity, and was brought out through the rent in the menibraim tyinpani, thus clearly indicatina: the course of the fluid. ^ The second case was tliat of a boy a;t. H) who had fallen from a considerable height, and was admitted with profuse bleeding from the ear. The boy went on improving for three days, during which a quantity of dried blood, which blocked up the meatus, had disappeared; the ear then became moist with a fluid filled with epithelial scales and fat globules. .i ; -t..-i. On the fourth day ^ _ _ _ a tliickish sero purulent fluid, of a pinkish colour, oozed from the - On the fifth day the discharge, still of a ear.