•204 ANEURISM. though there was scarcely any difFerence in the temperature of both arms. " An incision, about three inches in length, was made through the in- teguments at the root of the neck, on the acromial side, and parallel with the external jugular vein. The platysma niyoides being divided, the cellular membrane was separated with the finger, until the pulsation of the subclavian artery was felt where the vessel passes over the first rib. The finger being pressed upon this part of the artery, the cel- lular sheath investing it was carefully opened with the point of a knife. A ligature was then con- veyed underneath the artery, by means of a com- mon aneurism-needle, with the greatest facility.'' As soon as the ligature was tied, the pulsation in the tumor ceased. On the second day after the operation, the left arm began to have more feeling, and was as warm as the right. However, difficulty of breathing, twitch ings, delirium, &c., afterwards ensued, and the patient died on the evening of the eighth day, previously to which event the ring and middle fingers turned black. On opening the body, the pericardium exhibited the effects of a high degree of inflammation, and the heart was covered with flakes of lymph, its posterior sur- face being of a deep red colour. The inner membrane of the ascending aorta was of a bright scarlet hue, much diseased, and studded with white patches. A reddish appearance was also noticed in the lining of the right carotid, left subclavian, and even the abdominal aorta. The boundaries of the aneurismal tumor were in a state of spha- celation. These are all the circumstances which I wish here to notice ; but more particulars may be perused in Mr. Hodgson's work, p. 602. In some cases upon record, no difficulty was experienced in passing the ligature under the artery with a common aneurism-needle, a circumstance which must have depended upon the space be- tween the clavicle and the first rib having been less deep in these instances than the two which fell under my own observation, or in others which occurred in the practice of Dr. Colles, Sir Astley Cooper, and Mr. Liston. (See Lond. Med. Re- view, vol. ii. p. "200 ; and Ed.in. Med. and Surg. Journal, January, 1815, No. 64.) In Mr. Key's case, " the depth of the angle in which the artery was enclosed, rendering it impossible to pass a ligature under it, about three quarters of an inch of the clavicular portion of the sterno-raastoid was divided, which afforded sufficient room, and ren- dered the concluding part of the operation easy ; the artery became readily exposed to view, and an armed aneurismal needle was passed with facility under it." {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiii. p. 5.) It is an observation made by Dupuytren, that in persons who have long necks, the subclavian ar- tery is more superficial than in others whose necks are short. The size and situation of the tumor will also make a considerable difference ; for if it be large, and placed a certain way towards the shoulder, it may raise the clavicle a good way from the first rib, and increase the difficulty of the operation. In Dr. Colles's first case, the artery was tied before it reached the scaleni muscles, as the tu- mor, which was in the right subclavian artery, extended from the sternal origin of the sterno- mastoid muscle along the clavicle, a little beyond the arch of that bone, and rose nearly two inches above it, in a conical form, the apex of the cone being situated at the outer edge of the foregoing muscle. After a tedious dissection, it was found, that only a quarter of an inch of the artery was sound, and on this portion the ligature was placed. Great difficulty was encountered in passing it round the arterj', and the pleura was supposed to have been slightly wounded. Before tightening the ligature, the breathing became laborious, and the patient complained of oppression about the heart. These symptoms, indeed, were so violent, that it was judged prudent not immediately to tighten the ligature. On the fourth day, however, the artery was constricted, when the pulse at the wrist ceased, the patient not seeming to suffer much from what had been done. The patient then went on pretty well till the ninth daj', when he was seized with a sense of strangling, and pain about his heart; and becoming delirious, died in nine hours after the beginning of this attack. On dissection, the aorta was found diseased, and the disease extended into the subclavian arterj'. In another instance. Dr. Colles tied this vessel at the point where it emerges from between the scaleni muscles, without any particular difficulty. The operation, however, was soon followed by a train of severe symptoms, delirium, and morti- fication ; the patient dying on the fifth day. (See Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. January, 1815.) The first case in which complete success .it- tended the operation of tying the subclavian artery, where it first comes from behind the an- terior scalenus muscle, was that under the care of Dr. Post, of New York. The patient was a gentleman, with an aneurism in the left axilla. Dr. Post performed the operation on the 8th of September, 1817, in the following manner :—" An incision, commencing at the outer edge of the tendon of the mastoid muscle, was carried through the integuments about three inches in length, in a direction deviating a little from a parallel line with the clavicle. This divided the external ju- gular vein, the bleeding from which required a ligature for its suppression; and, in proceeding with the operation, three or four arterial branches were cut, which it was also necessary to secure. The subclavian artery was then sought imme- diately on the outside of the scaleni muscles, and was easily laid bare. Passing over the artery at this place, in contact with it, were three con- siderable branches of nerves, running downwards towards the chest, from the plexus above. These were separated, and a ligature passed under the arterj', with great facility, by the instrument, well adapted to this purpose, invented by Drs. Parish, Hartshorn, and Hewson, of Philadelphia. On tying the ligature all pulsation ceased in the limb." In the afternoon, the temperature of the limb was observed to be rather higher than that of the other arm. On the 17th of September, the aneurismal tumor burst, and about three ounces of dark coagulated blood were discharged. On the 2Gth, the ligature came away from the sub- clavian arter}\ Oct. 11. the wound was entirely healed ; and on the 16th of the same mouth the patient required no further attendance, his only complaints being now a little occasional pani in the fincers, and a superficial sinus at the part where the tumor burst. (See Mai. Chir. Trans. vol. ix, p. 185, &c.) . , In Euroi)e, the first axillary aneurism cured by taking up the subclavian artery from above the