A.TION. 414 CASTH known surgeons obliged to take ofF tlic dressings on account of bleeding in the scrotum. I believe the most likely way of avoiding this disagreeable occurrence is to imitate Mr. Tyrell, " always to allow the patient to become warm in bed before the dressing is completed; " for, until this period, it is not known what vessels in the scrotum will bleed. (See Sir A. Cooper''s Lectures, &c. vol. ii. p.lGl.) When the diseased testicle is exceedingly large, or a part of the scrotum is diseased, the surgeon should take care to remove the redundant or morbid portion of the skin, by including the piece, ■which he designs to take away, within two long elliptical incisions, which are to meet at the upper and lower parts of the swelling. In this manner, as Mr. Samuel Sharp has observed, the haemor- rhage will be much less, the operation greatly shortened, the sloughing of the distended skin pre- vented, and the recurrence of cancerous disease rendered less likely. (See Treatise on ilia Oper- ations, chap. X.) Mr. Lawrence concurs with M. de la Faye in thinking it best always to remove a large piece of the scrotum with the testicle, by which means the surface of the wound is lessened. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vi. p. 196.) Sir Astley Cooper approves of the practice when inflammation has rendered the testicle adherent to the scrotum, as being preferable to a tedious and painful dissec- tion for the separation of the parts. (See Lectures, &c. vol ii. p. 160.) If the tumor be of a pyriform figure, perfectly smooth and equal in its suiface, and free from pain, notwithstanding the degree of hardness may be great, and the surgeon may, in his own opi- nion, be clear that the tumor is not produced b}' fluid, but is a true scirrhus, it is an excellent rule to make a small opening tlirough the scrotum into the fore part of the tunica vaginalis, previously to the commencement of the operation, as recom- mended by Mr. Pott, so that if the case be one of serum or blood, its nature may be ascertained, and perliaps the testicle saved. " My reason for giving this advice (says Pott) is, that I was once 80 deceived by every apparent circumstance of a true, equal, indolent scirrhus, that I removed a testicle, which proved upon examination to be so little diseased, that, had I pierced it with a trocar previous to the operation, I could, and certainly should, have preserved it." J. Cloquet has seen castration performed in two 'instances of simple hydrocele, accompanied with great tension, but presenting no transparency nor manifest fluctua- tion. (Paihologie Chir. p. 45.) The best way in cases of doubt, is to make a small opening with a lancet or knife, or to intro- duce a small trocar in the manner advised by Pott, The agony of tying the cord is immensely in- creased by including tlic vas deferens ; and, as no good results from so dning, the practice should be renounced in every part of the world, as it long has been in this metropolis. Cases are recorded, in which the inclusion of the whole of the spermatic cord appears to have occasioned severe iind perilous consequences, and these in so great a degree, that it was found necessary to cut and remove the ligature. Some- tunes, says Petit, patients on whom castration haa been performed, suffer more or less acute pain in the kidneys. The sufTering often becomes insupportable and highly dangerous, the belly being swelled, tense, and painful ; the patient bemg affected with syncopes, and affections of the heart, sometimes with vomiting, and a reten- tion of urine : lastl}', a universal inflaunnation of the belly, and a violent fever, accompanied with delirium, are occasionally the fatal consequences of this operation. Petit was required to visit a patient, who had been in this deplorable state for twenty-four hours, after having suffered castra- tion, and this distinguished surgeon could impute the sudden and violent symptoms to nothing except the ligature on the spermatic cord ; conse- quently, he advised the ligature to be removed. The patient received some slight relief from this step ; and, after having been bled twice within a short space of time, he found himself a great deal better ; but as the dressings became wet with blood, apprehension of bleeding began to be en- tertained. Petit, therefore, had recourse to mo- derate compression of the cord. No hajmorrhage ensued ; the case afterwards went on well ; and the patient recovered sooner than was expected, (Traite des Maladies Chir. t. ii. p. 527, 528.) In the operation of removing a testicle, one caution seems particularly necessary, viz. if the cord should be at all enlarged, the surgeon ought carefullj' to examine, whether the augmentation of its size may not be owing to a portion of in- testine, or omentum, that is contained within it. {Sahatier, Medicine Operaloire, t. i. p. 533, edit. 1.) In one case of extirpation of the tes- ticle, "after the operation was completed, and the wound dressed, the patient being seized with a fit of coughing, to the astonishment and dismay of the surgeon, the dressings were forced off by a protrusion of several convolutions of small in- testines : from this, it was proved that the pa- tient had had a hernia ; but, the diseased en- largement of the testicle had acted as a truss, and prevented the rupture from coming down." (See Operative Surgery, by Sir C. Bell, vol. i. p. 226 ; also p. 224.) Another circumstance merits attention : when there are reasons which oblige us to divide the cord high up, and this part has not been tied before such division is made, it may be drawn up by the cremaster within the abdominal ring, and some difficulty may be experienced in securing the spermatic arteries. Sir C. Bell saw this happen twice, and the patients lost their lives from hajmorrhage. Hence, when it is necessary to cut through the cord near the ring, it is best always to transfix it with a tenaculum first, as above recommended. However, were the cord to happen in any instance to be drawn up within the ring, a surgeon would be guilty of most supine neglect to let the patient die of bleeding ; for, as Sir C. Bell has remarked, we may follow the cord with per- fect safety, even to the origin of the cremaster, whicli puils it up,if attention be paid to the course of the cord, obliquely upward and outward, within the inguinal canal. Mr. Clinc was present at the removal of a testicle, after which the cord could not be found ; he therefore slit up the in- guinal canal, and brought it into view ngnin. In order to avoid this inconvenience, Sir Astley Cooper approves of the practice of passing a temporary ligature tlirough the cord, as soon as it has been exposed. (See Lectures, &c. vol. ii.