BONES, EXCISION OF, If the disease were to extend high up on the rami, an incision should be made along the pos- terior edge of each ramus, so as to meet the ex- tremities of the first wound. Another method, specified by M. Malgaigne is easier than the foregoing. After the horizontal in- cision has been made, a perpendicular one is made completely through the lower lip, and carried down in the middle line till it meets the horizontal wound. Both the lateral flaps are then dissected from the bono. In the excision of one lialf of the horizontal por- tion, several methods arc adopted. In one, pre- ferred by several British surgeons, and also Ijy J. Cloquet, a horizontal incision is begun at the com- missure of the lips, and terminates at the distance of one or two lines beyond the ramus of the jaw. To this first incision are added two vertical ones ; one descending from the border of the lip to the base of the bone ; the other, taking a parallel course, descends behind the ramus to a point a few lines below the angle. The flap is dissected from above downwards ; the soft parts are next detached from the inner surface of the jaw ; and, lasth', the bone is sawn through. Mr. Liston has likewise expressed himself, as follows, in favour of one method, in which the flap is made from above downwards : — " The cheek may be divided (says he) by passing through it a long narrow bistoury, close to the anterior edge of the masseter muscle, and carrying the instrument forwards, and through at the angle of the mouth. From each extremity of this incision, another is made downwards ; the anterior one inclining for- wards, the other backwards. By reflection of the flap thus formed, the bone is exposed more easily, rapidly, and perfect!}-, than by tlie former mode of incision, in which the flap is made by a semi- lunar incision along the base of the jaw." (See Listoii^s Elem. part ii. p. 225) In the plan adopted by Dr. Mott of New York, two flaps are formed. A curved incision is made, with its convexity downwards, from a point ;in front of tlie car, and on a level with the condyle to the vicinity of the chin, below the commissure of the lips. The upper flap is raised and reflected on the face. A second incision, descending I'rom the upper end of the first to the angle of the jaw, enables the surgeon to form a lower flap, The bone is sawn through, first in front, and then behind, as high up as the circnmstances of the case ret[niro. If above a certain point, Dr. Mott recommends the inferior maxillary nerve to be cut through, before the bone is drawn outwards, and the lingual branch of the fifth pair to be carefully avoided. A third method, wliich has the names of Cusack, Lisfranc, Liston, Malgaigne, &c.,in its i'avotu-, con- sists in making, first, a vertical incision through the lip down to a point below the chin, and then a horizontal cut, extending from the first along the base of the jaw to two lines beyond its angle. The flap is then dissected off the tumor, in the direc- tion from below upwards, and reflected on the face. The bone is then sawn through in front and behind, and the flap united with sutures. I am of opinion with M. Malgaigne, that this plan is more simple than the others ; no loilgmeut of pus islikely to follow it; and the scar will produce hut slight disfigurement. I recommend, however, the front portion of the hone to he divided before the posterior part of it, as facilitating th« jafe detacli- 351 ment of the mylo hyoideus and other parts con- nected with its inner surface. One method, described by Mr. Liston, is a mo- dificatimi of the foregoing:—"If the tumor is in- eluded between the lateral incisor tooth and last molar, on the same side, these teeth must be ex- tracted to permit division at these points. A semi- lunar incision may then be made along the base of the jaw, the horns of the incision pointing upwards, and passing over tlie spaces which were occupied by the extracted teeth. The flap is dissected up, and the membrane of the cheek divided along the line of the incision. The bistoury is then carried along the inside of the bone, so as to divide the membrane of the mouth, and separate the attach- ments of the muscles. The tongue is pushed aside, and a copper spatula placed under the jaw at the part to be divided, in order that the soft parts may not be injured during the sawing. A small nar- row saw, or one commonly known by the name of Key's, is applied to the bone at the points where the teeth were extracted; and, by a few motions of this instrument, a notch is made of no great depth; a pair of strong cutting pliers are placed in the track, and by them division of the bone is accomplished with equal neatness and much more rapidly than if the use of the saw had been con- tinued. The pliers should be strong in every point, and the handles long, to afford °the advan- tage of a powerful lever." The chain saw, he says, is not to be depended upon, and is slow m its operation. (See Liston's Elem. part ii p. 224.) ^ A fourth plan, described by M. Malgaigne, may be applicable where the disease extends more in the direction backwards than forwards. In such a case, perhaps, it may be sufficient to make a semilunar incision along the posterior border of the ramus and the base of the bone, from the ear to the chin._ Thus only one flap would be formed, and no cicatrix would be seen on the face M. Malgaigne lays it down as a maxim, that, in makmg the flaps in any of these operations, the skin and cutaneous muscles alone should be divided, and that the masseter should be cut through, and removed at the same height as the bone itself, The facial artery is readily secured. All those operators who have had recourse to the ligature of the carotid artery, as a preliminary measure have subjected their patients to n very needless proceeding. Even in the excision of one half the lower jaiv bone at its artiautation with the temporal bone the ligature of the carotid artery is quite uncalled' for One plan of performing this operation consists in making an incision along the b.ase of the i'lw ■ a second incision is then made perpend cula'rly hrough the lower lip down to the first; and i let-imurVT oxtends'behind tl e amus. The flap ,3 raised, and the fore part of the bone sawn hrough. The soft parts are then letached from its inner surface, and the tendinous attachment of tlie temporal muscle to the coronoid process cut through from within outwards L-.sth- the disarticulation of the condyle is eflected ■ for firrtC'^H"'''/';' 'f-Tu l""^'"' ''S'-^"""" "''""Id nst be divided, while the bone is depressed and twisted, in order to render the capsular lica- IhroLh p'""' ™''^y •^'""^'^ ^"t tniougu with scissors, ns recommended by M. Mnl-