ABDOMEN, tected. eight or ten pounds of victuals and drink being suddenly introduced into it? and which, in tympanitis, often becomes distended in a short time to twice or thrice its natural dimensions ? " According to the judgment of this distinguished pathologist, the obstacle to reduction depends either upon adhesions, or a disproportion between the viscera and the passage through which they protrude, arising from hypertrophy of the omen- tum, or mesentery ; or the altered relations of the peritoneum, drawn down by the displaced intes- tines. But though this explanation, so far as it goes, seems correct with reference to the causes of the impossibility of reduction, Cruveilhier's view should not lead us to forget, that certain cases every now and then present themselves where the viscera admit of reduction ; but their return into the abdomen is followed by so much pain and in- disposition, that the plan of keeping them there is unavoidably renounced. In the treatment of several diseases and inju ries of the abdomen, the surgeon cannot proceed one step with safety to his patient without the light of anatomy. Hernia, wounds, paracentesis, ab- scesses, are all so many cases where a surgeon deficient in anatomical knowledge would be likely to adopt very inefficient measures, or commit the most fatal mistakes. A surgeon, acquainted with the structure and extent of the sheath of the rec- tus, would have no difficulty in selecting the most advantageous place for the puncture, when matter collects within that investment of tlie muscle ; and the practitioner, aware of the exact course of the epigastric artery, would never run_ any risk of wounding it either in tapping a dropsical patient, attempting to take up the external iliac artery, or dividing the stricture in inguinal and crural herniae. On being first consulted, surgeons, as well as physicians, too often neglect to institute a careful examination of the external parts of the body. Thus, either from carelessness or mistaken deli- cacy, they deprive themselves of the most simple, ready, and sure means of recognising the nature of the patient's complaint. Some diseases of the chest and abdomen are strikingly expressed on the surface ; either in a permanent change of confi- guration, or in a temporary alteration of the na _ tural movements, or both. {Forbes, in Cyclop, of Fract. Med. art. Abdomen, Exploraiion of.) When obstinate constipation, great pain, nausea, and vomiting occur, let the surgeon always be sure that these symptoms are not dependent upon hernia, the usual situations of wliich should be carefully explored. The methods of exploring the abdominal regions are three, viz. inspection, manual examinaiion, or palpation, as it is termed, and percussion. The assistance of the sight and touch alone is not what the practitioner should always be content with ; for as there is more or less gas within the alimentary canal, and consider- able arterial trunks pervade the abdomen, the sense of hearing may be exerted with as much success in the investigation of diseases of this part of the body, as in that of diseases of the chest. The parietes of the abdomen being capable of re- laxation, the viscera may be felt directly through them ; and, as Cruveilhier justly rennirks, this is the' only visceral cavity admitting of such ex- ploration. Frequently, by means of palpation, tender, enlarged, or indurated points may be de- „>,vw^v.. In the first instance, however, a careful inspection of the surface of the abdomen should always be made. The practitioner should con- sider whether it is more bulky, or of less size, than natural. Swelling and tension, combined with pain, and a small frequent pulse, characterise acute peritonitis. In some cases, a circumscribed swelling points out the seat of the disease,—the organ affected. How essential the knowledge of the various regions of the abdomen, and of the con- tents of each of them, will be for the formation of a correct opinion, must be sufiiciently manifest. In pregnancy, retention of urine, and encysted dropsy, the swelling has an oval, or protuberant form ; in ascites, a broader, more expanded shape. In lead colic, the parietes of the abdomen seem retracted, or drawn inwards. When palpation is instituted, the abdominal muscles should be re- laxed, and the patient's mind diverted from his case. The pressure should be made gently and gradually ; for when it is too forcible and abrupt, the examiner's touch is confused, the patient is put to pain, and his muscles contract. According to Cruveilhier, it has even been known to occasion the death of children by lacerating the liver, or the spleen in a state of enlargement. In fact, this rude mode of palpation conveys to the sur- geon no information which can be relied upon ; for the uneasiness, or pain experienced, or the change of countenance, may be more owing to the roughness or force of the pressiure than to any disease in the region of the abdomen stibjected to examination. In certain cases, like ascites, the exploration should be made, if possible, while the patient is standing up, because, in this position, the fluid gravitates and renders the parietes of the abdomen tense, so that the fluid is more plainly- distinguished. The presence of gas, or liquids, may be de- tected by percussion ; that of liquids, or any foreign body, being made manifest by the dull dead°sound, and the perception of fluctuation by the hand applied to the point opposite that which receives the percussion. In diseases and injuries of the abdomen, the diagnosis is often attended with considerable ob- scurit}^ It might be supposed, that as the soft and yielding parietes of this cavity facilitate the manual examination of its viscera, the detection of any painful point about them, and the slightest change of their shape or volume, nothing would be more easy than to trace disease in this part of the body through its difierent stages with great precision. But, as Cruveilhier remarks, this is far from being the fact. The vast number of or- gans contained in the abdomen, their great move- ableness, the frequency of their displacement, the multitude of their diseases, the particular character of their vitality, which sometimes lets them attain a very serious state of disease, unattended by any urgent pain ; and lastly, the difference thick- nets of the parietes of the abdomen m dii^crent individuals, are undoubtedly the c.rcumst.ances accounting for the frequent difficulty m the diag- nosis. In surgical, as well as in medical cases, the same uncertainty is experienced. Thus punc- tured wounds of the abdomen are treated on general principles, because the practitioner seldom knows exactly wliat viscera are injured. The same observation is applicable to contusions of the abdomen, A man who had a hernia received the