The public have now little or no reliance on this medicine as a means of relieving cancer. Mr. J Bums declares that in cancerous ulceration he never knew hemlock produce even temporary me lioration. (See Conium.) Belladonna was highly recommended by Lam bergen. During its use, he kept the bowels open with clysters, administered every second day. The dose should be, at first, a grain of the dried leaves, made into a pill. The quantity may be gradually increased to that of ten or twelve grains. The extract is now frequently exhibited, the dose being at first one grain, and afterwards increased by de- grees to five. The reputation of belladonna has not been supported by any decided success in cases of true cancer. Hyosciamus has often been tried, and was held in great estimation by the ancients. Mr. .J. Burns emplo3'ed it occasionally, but with little effect. The common dose, at first, is three grains of the extract. Aconitum has also been given ; and as it is a powerful and dangerous narcotic, a patient usually begins with only half of a grain of the extract night and morning. Solanura dulcamara, Paris quadri- folia, Phytolacca, &c. have also been recom- mended ; but they are now hardly ever employed, which is a sufficient proof of their inefficacy Mr. J. Burns tried the hydro-sulphuret of ammo- nia ; and Richter prescribed the laurus cerasus, without success. Digitalis lessens vascular action, and may act on schirri like abstinence, bleeding, &c. It has, however, no specific virtue in curing cancerous diseases. Opium is seldom emploj-ed with the intention of curing cancer, although probably it has just ns much power of this kind as other narcotics which have been more frequently used. For the purpose of lessening the pain of cancerous diseases, it is very freely prescribed. Tonics sometimes improve the general health; but they never produce any specific effect on the local disease. Justamond thought arsenic a specific for can- cers. Further experience has not, however, con- firmed the truth of this opinion, though there are practitioners who continue to think highly of the efficacy of this mineral in certain forms of disease which have sometimes been classed with cancer. It cures numerous ill-looking sores on the face, lips, and tongue, and is one of the best remedies for lupus. Arsenical powder and paste, em- ployed with considerable success by Dupuytren, as external applications, in the treatment of inve- terate ulcers of the lips, nose, and other parts, are noticed in tlie article Ar.senic. The powder I have tried in some cases, in the North London Hospital, and found its effects correspond to Du- puytren's account. Mr. Hill even thinks that arsenic will, " in a great majurity of cases, retard the progress of the true scirrhous tumor, and often prevent its becoming cancer. In some, it has appeared to dissipate such swellings completely." (See JSdin. Med. and SuryicalJourn.yo\. vi. p. 5!i.) Mercury, in conjunction with decoctions of guaiacuni, saraaparilla, &c. has been recommended, but, as Mr. J. Burns remarks, no fact is more cer- tainly ascertained than that mercury always exasperates the disease, especially when in the ulcerated state. CANCER. 397 Muriate of barytes at present retains no charac- ter as a remedy for cancer. Carbonate of iron was particularly recommended by Mr. Carmichael. Besides the carbonate of iron, he sometimes prescribed the tartrate of iron and potass, and the phosphate, oxyphosphate, and suboxyphosphate of the metal. Some constitutions can bear these preparations only in small quanti- ties ; they affect most patients with constipation, and many with headach and dyspnoea. Mr. Car- michael has seldom given less than thirty grains, in divided doses, in a da}', or exceeded sixty. He prefers the suboxyphosphate for internal use, and states, that it answers best in small doses, fre- quently repeated. It should be blended with white of egg, have a little pure fixed alkali added, and then be made into pills with powdered liquor- ice. Aloes is recommended for the removal of costiveness. "When half a grain is combined with a pill, containing four grains of carbonate of iron, and taken thrice a day, the constipation will be obviated. When the internal use of iron brings on headach, difficult respiration, a quick, sometimes full pulse, which is also generally hard and wir}', excessive languor, lassitude, &c. tlie iron is to be left off, and four grains of camphor given every fifth hour. At the same time that preparations of iron were internally administered, Mr. Carmichael employed externally, for ulcerated cancers, the carbonate, phosphate, oxyphosphate, and arseniate of iron, blended with water, to the consistence of a thin paste, which was applied once every twentj-'-four hours. To occult cancers, the same gentleman applied a solution of the sulphate of iron, Jj. to Ibj. of water. The acetate of iron, diluted with eight or ten times its weight of water, was also used. These lotions were put on the part affected by means of folded linen, wet in them, and covered with a piece of oiled silk to prevent injury of the clothes. (See An Essay on the Effects of the Car- bonate and other Preparations of Iron tipon Cancer, ^0. 2nd ed. 8vo. Dublin, 1808.) Many remedies have acquired celebrity in cases of cancer, because very bad and malignant diseases, only supposed to be cancers, have got well under their use. Such is probably the case with the carbonate of iron. The only mode of treatment which Mr. Pear- son ever saw do any particular benefit to cancer was that of keeping the patient on a diet barely sufficient for the support of life, such as barley- water alone, tea, &c. A milk diet has also been recommended. With respect to the effects of a very low diet Sir Astley Cooper protests strongly against the plan : if the patient be already weak, he says you will thus render her still weaker, and soon bring her to the gravu : m proportion as the strength de- clines the pulse 13 quickened. He further declares that we possess no medicine, which has any specific power oyer the disease, though the state of the constitution may sometimes be improved by Plum- mer's pills given at bedtime, and the followinir draught in the day: ^ Iiifus. Gentian. Jiss. tinct colunibie 5j. Ammoii. carbon, gr. v. Sodic Carbon! 3ss. Misce. Climate he also regards as having no particular effect on scirrhous disease. Sir Astley Cooper only sanctions the use of steel medicines, when the uterine secretion is defective. In such cases he recommends the compound calomel pill at