882 HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. of perforation cannot be performed too soon; it Beldom happens that it is done soon enough." In short, whenever the dura mater, after the head has received external violence, separates, or is detached spontaneous!}'', from the bone under- neath it, and such separation is attended with the collection of a small quantity of thin brown ichor, an alteration of colour in the separated pericranium, unnatural dryness of the bone, chilliness, horripi- latio, languor, and some degree of fever, Mr. Pott considers the operation indispensably n'ecessary to save, the patient's life. " When the skull has been once perforated, and the dura mater thereby laid bare, the state of the matter must principally determine the surgeon's future conduct. In some cases, one opi^ning will prove sufficient for all necessary purposes ; in others, several may be necessary." Notwithstanding the operation of perforation be absolutely and unavoidably necessary, as Mr. Pott remarks, " the repetition of bloodletting, or cool- ing laxative medicines, the use of antiphlogistic remedies, and a most strict observance of a low diet and regimen, are as indispensably requisite after such operation as before : the perforation sets the membrane free from pressure, and gives vent to collected matter, but nothing more; the inflamed state of the parts under the skull, and all the neces- sary consequences of such inflammation, call for all our attention, full as much afterwards as before ; and although the patient must have perished with- out the use of the trephine, yet the merely having used it will not preserve him without every other caution and care." {Pott.) In relation to this subject, a remark, made by Sir Astley Cooper, merits notice : when pus lies between the dura mater and skull, the application of the trephine, he acknowledges, is a successful practice; but, according to his experience, this situation of the purulent matter is comparatively rare, as it generally collects between the pia mater and surface of the brain, for which case an operation will be useless. (Lectures, S,'o. vol. i. p. 325.) It is stated by Sir Benjamin Brodie, that in hospital practice, suppuration between tlie dura mater and the bone, in consequence of fracture, is also less common at the present period, than when Pott wrote ; a change which he refers to the stricter antiphlogistic plan adopted by modern surgeons, whether the early symptoms be or be not of a dangerous description. (See Alcd. Chir. Trans, vol. xiv. p. 411.) My own observations agree with those of Sir Astley Cooper, respecting the greater frequency of purulent matter under, tlian upon the dura mater. Some months ago, I trephined a patient who had paralysis and other sj-mptoms of pressure, preceded by those of inflammation witliin the skull. I was partly induced to do so for the purpose of remov- ing a necrosis, which, I conceived, might extend through both tables, and be a source of irritation. The matter, however, was not under the sequestrum, which consisted merely of the outer table, but was diffused both between the arachnoid coat and dura niator, and also more deeply over the pia mater. The operation was therefore useless. In two other cases which proved fatal in University College Hospital, there was, indeed, pus on the surface of the dura mater ; but there were also abscesses in the substance of the brain. Two line specimens of tins are preserved in the College Museum. The operation of trephining, therefore, in suppuration on the dura mater, will often fail, not merely on account of the circumstances here adverted to, but because the brain and its membranes are actually in a state of inflammation. The matter may be dis- charged, but its pressure is not the only mischief. La Peyronie relates a case in which an incision was made in the dura mater, and a basin of pus discharged, leaving a cavity that reached to the corpus callosum. Tile patient recovered. {Acad, de Chir. t. i. p. 250.) Baron Dupuytren ventured in one instance to make a puncture, an inch deep, in the brain, and was fortunate enough to reach the abscess: the case ended well. (^Pathol. Med. Ch. t. iv. p. 308.) I think it not improper to recommend again the practice of appl3'ing cold wet cloths to the head for the prevention and relief of inflammation of the dura mater ; a plan to which, as alreadj' ex- plained, Schmucker ascribed a good deal of the success with which he treated injuries of the head. Both tables of the skull sometimes exfoliate in consequence of external violence. Here the dead bone must be removed, as soon as loose ; and, if necessary, the scalp divided for the purpose. M. Velpeau sets down this as a case requiring the tre- phine, without exfoliation being awaited, and this whether sj'mptoms of pressure exist or not ; and he gives three cases in support of this doctrine. {De VOpcr. du Trepan, p. 23.) I have seen cases in which the patients recovered by the exfoliation of both tables ; but some of them encountered so much danger, that I suspect their chance of re- covery would have been increased bj'acting on the principle incidcated by M. Velpeau. Yet, where the symptoms are not urgent, I shoiild recommend awaiting exfoliation. M. Velpeau is, perhaps, rather too zealous an advocate for this practice. {De I'Oper. du Trepan,^. 79.) [The puffy tumor of the scalp, mentioned by Pott as indicative of suppuration on the dura mater, although occasionally found, is generally absent. When the scalp is entire, and the bone beneath is carious or dead, there is necessarily suppuration under the scalp, and the tumor is then developed; this, however, happens whollj' irrespective of the formation of pus on the dura mater. But when matter forms under the dead bone during its ex- foliation, it is generallj' preceded b}'' sloughing of the scalp, and the bone is consequentlj' bared of its external covering. After injury to the skull bones, however, if symptoms of meningeal irritJi- tion occur, and if it is necessary to examine closely the condition of parts with a view to an operation, an incision should be made in any part of the cranium where there is swelling or puftincss. IJewett (loc. cit.) has carefully collected informa- tion from various sources on this subject, and he has come to the conclusion that the puify tumor as pathognomonic of suppuration on the dura mater rarel}- exists. The writer's experience corroborates this opinion. Suppuration is not connnonly confined to the dura mater, but it is so occasionally, and the dis- ease is sometimes limited to tiie space between the dead bone and this membrane: the symptoms are then milder in their character, and rather ludica.e pressure on the brain tiiau great cercbnil irritation. Hemiplegia, preceded by a slight att.-ick ol le\er, is frequently the only symptom present. bucli cases arc remediable at once by the escape ot