GUNSH( )T WOUNDS. hours have elapsed. {Mem. de Chir. Militaire, t. ii.) With respect to wounds of the knee, the sen- timents of Mr. Guthrie nearly coincide with those of Larre}'. " I most solemnly protest (says Mr. G.) I do not remember a case do well, in which I knew the articulating end of the femur, or tibia, to be fractured by a ball that passed through the joint, although I have tried great numbers, even to the last battle of Toulouse. I know that persons wounded in that way have lived ; for a recovery it cannot be called where the limb is useless, bent backward, and a constant source of irritation and distress, after several months of acute suffering, to obtain even this partial security from impending death ; but if one case of recovery should take place in fifty, is it any sort of equiva- lent for the sacrifice of the other forty-nine ? Or is the preserving of a limb of this kind an equivalent for the loss of one man?" (On Gunshot Wounds, p. 196.) In tlie attack of the village of Merksam near Antwerp, early in 181 4, a soldier of the 9.5th regi- ment was brought to our field hospital, having re- ceived a musket-ball through the knee-joint. The staif-surgeons on duty, and Mr. Curtis, surgeon of the 1st Guards, were preparing to amputate the limb, when a surgeon attached to the 95th urgently recommended deferring the operation. Superficial dressings were applied, and the patient sent to the rear. He lived several months after the accident, at times affording hopes of a perfect re- covery; but in the end he fell a victim to hectic symptoms. Indeed, such is the general unfortunate result of these cases, that Dr. Hennen lays it down as a rule in military surgery, that no lacerated joint, particularly the knee, ankle, or elbow, should ever leave the field unamputated, where the patient is not obviously sinking. {On Military Surgery, p. 41, ed. 3.) According to Mr. Guthrie, fractures of the patella, without injury of the other bones, ad- mit of delay, provided the bone is not much splintered. Seventh case.—Larrey observes, that if a grape shot, a small cannon-shot, or a piece of a shell, in passing through the substance of a member, should have extensively denuded the bone, with- out breaking it, amputation is equally indicated, although the soft parts may not appear to have particularly suflfered. Indeed, the violent con- cussion produced by the accident has disorganised many parts; the medullary substance is injured, the vessels are lacerated, the nerves immoderately stretched, and thrown into a state of stupor; the muscles are deprived of their tone; and the circula- tion and sensibility in the limb are obstructed. Before we decide, however, Barron Larrcy cautions us to observe attentively the symptoms which characterise this kind of disorder. The case can bo supposed to happen only in the leg, where the bone is very superficial, and merely covered at its ante- rior part with the skin. The following are described as the symptoms; the limb is insensible, the foot cold as ice, the bone partly exposed, and, on careful examination, it will be found that the integuments, and even the periosteum, are extensively detached from it. The commotion extends to a considerable distance; the functions of the body are disordered; and all the secretions experience a more or less palpable disturbance. The intellectual faculties are sus- pended, and the circulation is retarded. The pulse is small and concentrated; the countenance pale; and the eyes have a dull moist appearance. The patient feels such anxiety that he cannot long remain in one posture, and requests that his leg may be quickly taken off, as it incommodes him severely, and he experiences very acute pain in the knee. When all these characteristic symptoms are conjoined, says Larrey, we should not hesitate to amputate immediately; for otherwise the leg will be attacked with sphacelus, and the patient certainly perish. Larrey adduces several interesting cases in sup- port of the preceding observations. Eighth case.—When a large ginglymoid articu- lation, such as the elbow, or especially' the knee, has been extensively opened with a cutting instru- ment, and blood is extravasated in the joint, Larrey deems immediate amputation necessary. In these cases, the synovial membranes, the liga- ments and aponeuroses, inflame, the part swells, erethismus rapidly takes place, and acute pains, abscesses, deep sinuses, caries, febrile symptoms, and death, are the speedy consequences. Larrey has seen numerous subjects die of such injuries, on account of the operation having been postponed through a hope of saving the limb. In his Mem. de Chir. Militaire, t. ii. some of these cases are detailed. Several facts of the same kind are candidly recorded by M. Velpeau. (See Nouv. Elem. de Med. Oper. t. i. p. 284,) [Many of these cases, where the integuments are not too much injured, admit of excision of the ends of the bones forming the joint, whereby the limb may be preserved.] Although a wound may penetrate a joint, yet, if it be small and unattended with extravasation of blood, M. Larrey informs us, it will generally heal, provided too much compression be not em- ployed. When two limbs have been at the same time so injured as to require amputation, we should not be afraid of amputating them both immediately, without any interval. We have, says Larrej', several times performed this double amputation with almost as much success as the amputation of a single member. He has recorded an excellent case in confirmation of this statement. {Menu do Chir. Militaire, t. ii. p. 478 ) When a limb is differently injured at the same time in two places, and one of the wounds requires amputation (suppose a wound of the leg with a splintered fracture of the bone, and a second of the thigh, done with a ball, but without any frac- ture of the OS femoris or other bad accident), Larrey recommends us first to dress the simple wound of the thigh, and amputate the leg innne- diately afterwards, if the knee be free from injurj% When it is necessary to amputate above this joint, the less important wound need not be dre.ssed till after the operation, provided it can be compre- hended in the section of the member, or be so near the place of the incision as to alter the indication. When the wound demanding amputation is the upper one, the operation of course is to bo done above it, without paying any regard to the injury situated lower down. Ni7ith case.—To the foregoing species of gun- shot wounds, pointed out by Baron Larrey as urgently requiring immediate amputation, my own