AMPUTATION. 48 consideration must be given before any degree of inflammation has seized the part, and, there- fore, immediately after the accident. When in- flammation, tension, and a disposition to gangrene in the limb have arisen, the period is highly dis- advantageous for operating, and the patient's chances of being saved by amputation, under these circumstances, are much smaller than be- fore the changes here spoken of have taken place. In compound fractures, as Mr. Pott has cor- rectly pointed out, there are three points of time when amputation may be proper. The first of these is immediately, or as soon as possible, after the receipt of the injury. The second is, when the bones continue for a great length of time without any disposition to unite, and the discharge from the wound has been so long, and is so large, that the patient's strength fails, and general sym- ptoms foreboding dissolution come on. The third is, when mortification has taken such complete possession of the soft parts of the inferior portion of the limb, quite down to the bone, that, upon the separation of such parts, the bone or bones are left bare in the interspace. Tlie first and second of these are matters of very serious consideration. The third hardly re- quires anj-. The necessity of immediate or very early deci- sion, in this case, makes it a delicate part of prac- tice ; for, however pressing the case may seem to the surgeon, it will not, in general, appear in the same light to the patient or his relations; yet suffering this point of time to pass often decides the patient's fate. This necessity of early decision arises from the quick tendency to mortification, which ensues in ■ the injured limb, and too often ends in the patient s death. That this is no exaggeration, says Pott, melancholy and frequent experience evinces, even in those whose constitutions, previous to the ac- cident, were in good order; but much more in those, who have been heated by violent exercise, or labour, or liquor, or who have led debauched and intemperate lives, or who have habits na- turally inflammable and irritable. This is often the case when the fracture happens to the middle part of the bones, but is much more likely to happen when any of the large joints are con- cerned. In many of these cases, a determination for or against amputation, is really a determin- ation for or against the patient's existence. That it would have been impossible to have saved some limbs, which have been cut off, no man will pretend to say ; but this does not render the practice injudicious. Do not the majority of those who get into the above hazardous condition, and on whom amputation is not performed, perish in consequence of their wounds ? Have not many lives been preserved by amputation, which, from the same circumstances, would otherwise most probably have been lost? Pressing and urgent as the state of a compound fracture may be, at this first point of time, still it will be a matter of choice, whether the limb shall be removed or not; but, at the second period, the operation must be submitted to, or the patient must die. 1 /■ ^ , The most unpromising appearances at hist do not necessarily, or constantly, end unfortunately. Sometimes after the most threatening first symp- ^^msrafler considerable length of time, great dis- charges of matter, and large exfoliations of bone, success is ultimately obtained, and the patient recovers his health and the use of his limb. Dupuytren relates two cases, in one of which the hand was terribly shattered by the kick of a horse ; while, in the other, all the anterior part of the foot had been crushed by an iron machine. In the first case, all the parts of the hand, not broken to atoms, were preserved, the patient recover- ing without any severe symptoms. In the second, where the great toe was broken, and the first and second metatarsal bones comminuted, the other toes wounded, and all the integuments of the sole torn away, gangrene ensued ; but, in the end, the patient recovered with the loss of only the great toe. In both these instances, Dupuytren removed all loose fragments of bone. In the last case, he was singularly favoured by the youth and good constitution of the patient. " Things," says he, "do not alwa3-s end in this way: a very slight difference in these favourable conditions, or in the degree of the injuries, might perhaps have made us seriously repent of not having amputated." (CZin. C'faV. t. iv. p. 237.) But sometimes after the most judicious treat- ment through every stage of the disease ; after the united eftbrts of physic and surgery; the sore, instead of granulating kindly, and contracting daily to a smaller size, shall remain as large as at first, with a tawny, spongy surface, discharging a large quantity of thin sanies, instead of a small one of good matter; the fractured ends of the bones, instead of tending to exfoliate, or to unite, will remain as perfectly loose and disunited as at first, while the patient shall lose his sleep, his appetite, and his strength ; a hectic fever, with a quick, small, hard pulse, profuse sweats, and col- liquative purging, contributing at the same time to bring him to the brink of the grave, notwithstanding every kind of assistance: in these circumstances, if amputation be not performed, Mr. Pott asks, what else can rescue the patient from destruction? The third and last period is a matter which does not require much consideration. Too often, the inflammation, consequent upon the injury, in- stead of producing abscess and suppuration, tends to gangrene and mortification, the progress of which is often so rapid as to destroy the patient in a short space of time, constituting that very sort of case in which amputation should have been im- mediately performed. But sometimes even this dreadful malady is, by tfce help of art, put a stop to, but not until it has totally destroyed all the surrounding muscles, tendons, and membranes quite down to the bone, which, upon the separ- ation of the mortified parts, is left qmte bare, and all circulation between the parts above and those below is by this totally cut off. In this instance, whether the surgeon saw through the bare bone, or leave the separation to be effected by nature, the patient must lose his limb. (See FoH s He- marks on the Necessily of Ampuiation tn ceyUun Cases, cS-o. Chiv. Works, vol. m.) _ At the same time, there are certain examples of mortification from external causes,'where, as far as one can judge from the results of later expe- rience than that of Mr. Pott, the surgeon should not defer amputation, even though the disorder is yet in a spreading state, attended with cons,- derable swelling and tension reaching far up the limb. This is a subject, however, which will re-