FRACTURE. 711 the pulse rather slow and feeble. In eight or ten minutes the lips became livid, the pulse sunk, and the surface of the limbs and trunk began to grow cold. Hot water was applied to the feet, the chest, and epigastrium, and artificial respiration was re- sorted to by closing the nostrils, and blowing air into the mouth through a piece of muslin. This soon brought a rosy colour into the cheeks, the pulse became stronger, the temperature of the body rose, and some slight effort at respiration was sup- posed to be made. Whenever the artificial respir- ation was discontinued, the breathing went on but slowly and feeb!}', the pulse sunk, and the lips became livid. In this manner he went on for some hours, the vital powers partially recovering, while artificial respiration was carried on, and sinking directly it was interrupted. Although there was great suspicion entertained that the spine had suffered injury, I wished to render the intro- duction of air into the lungs as complete as possible, and therefore performed tracheotomy, so that a small pair of bellows might be used for this pur- pose. But neither this plan, nor galvanism, tried by Dr. Ritchie, was of any material service ; and death took place at the end of six hours and a half. In the post mortem examination, blood was found effused between the muscles in front of the cervical vertebrae. The .anterior common ligament was raptured opposite the second and third ver- tebra. A considerable quantity of blood was found in the intermuscular cellular tissue behind the cervical vertebrfe, opposite the second, third, and fourth of them. A fracture of the arch of the third was detected, the part of it above the spinous pro- cess being broken off, and the portion of it on each side of that process also fractured. Although the fragment might have been depressed, it did not seem to be so at the period of examination. In the spinal canal blood was effused ; but there was no apparent laceration of the dura mater, or injury of the cord: the bowels were greatly distended ■with air. This case, which I have also referred to in the article Asphyxia, illustrates the consequences of an injury of the spinal cord, implicating the origins of the phrenic nerves. A. Cooper, Op. cit. p. 549. See L. T. Soemmering, Bemerkun^en iiberVerrenkungundBnich des Ruck- BTaths, 8V0. Berlin, 1793. F. A. E. Cucnotte, 0\s. Med. Chir. sistens Casum Subluxationis Vertebra: Dorsi cum Fractura complicatffi, postfactam Reposi- tionem et varia dira Symptomata duodecima demum Septimana fnnestse. Argent. 1701. Case of Fractured Spine, Lancet, vol. ii. p. 97. C. Wenzel, Von den Krankheiten am Riick^rathc. Bamberg, 1824, fol. Sir Charles jBcK,On Injuries of the Spine and Thigh- bone. Lond. 4to. 1824. B. P/iillips, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xx. flir D. C. Jirodie, ibid. 1 Fractures of the Sternum. The sternum is less frequently broken than its exposed position might lead us to expect ; and the reason of this fact is imputed to the bone resting, as it were, upon the yielding cartilages of the ribs, and also, in some measure, to its spongy texture. When the accident does occur, it is in most cases from the direct application of external violence to the injured part; and then the fracture is always accompanied with contusion, or even a wound of the integuments, and more or less injury of the thoracic viscera. [Its direction is generally transverse or slightly oblique, and when there is displacement, it is found that most commouly tlie upper piece is do- pressed backwards towards tlie thorax. More rarely, the fracture has been found to take a ver- tical direction, so as to separate the bone into two lateral halves.] As Boyer remarks, the sternum, in consequence of the elasticity of the cartilages of the ribs, may be readily propelled backward by pressure in this direction, and the result is an actual change in the form, and a real diminution of the chest. Now, since this cavity is always accurately filled by its contents, these alterations cannot happen in a con- siderable and sudden manner, without a risk of the thoracic viscera being contused and even ruptiu-ed. Thus, when the sternum has been fractured by violent blows on the chest, the heart and lungs have been found severely contused, and sometimes lacerated ; and there will always be greater danger of such mischief, when the fracture is attended with depression of one or more of the fragments. In the Museum of University College is a heart, the right ventricle of which was lacerated by the fragment of a broken sternum. M. Sanson saw a similar occurrence. (See Diet, de Mid. et de Chir. Pratiques, art. Fracture.) In some cases, a large quantity of blood is effused in the cellular tissue of the anterior mediastinum ; and in others, the ac- cident is followed by inflammation and suppuration ip the same situation, and necrosis of the broken part of the bone. Since the lungs are also liable to be ruptured by the same force which causes the fracture, or wounded by the depressed pieces of bone, emphysema may be another complication, as was exemplified in a case related by Flajani. {Collezione d'Osservaz, di Chir. t, ii. p. 214. 8vo. Roma, 1802.) [The sternum has been known to be fractured without direct violence either from the contre-coup occasioned by falls on the back or other parts of the body, or as some have supposed, by the violent action of the muscles connected with it. Chaussier saw two fractures from muscular action in the efforts of parturition. In both these cases the trunk and head were strongly bent backwards at the moment of fracture. (See Malyaignc, Tratte des Fractures, ^e. t. i, p. 451.)] A fracture of the sternum is rendered obvious by the inequalities perceptible, when the surface of the bone is examined with the fingers ; by a de- pression, or elevation of the broken pieces ; a cre- pitus and an unusual movableness of the injured part in respiration. The breathing is difficult, and mostly accompanied with cough, sintting of blood, palpitations, and inability to lie on the back. Ac- cording to the observations of Petit and Baldinger, several of these latter symptoms may continue, with less intensitj', a long while after the fracture has been cured. {Levcille, Nouvelle Doctrine Chir. t. ii. p. 243.) When displacement occurs, the lower fragment generally is pushed forwards, or even more or less overlaps the upper. Fractures of the sternum, when they are more solutions of continuity, only require common treat- ment; viz. a bandage round the chest, quietude, and a low regimen, with the view of preventing what may bo considered as the most dangerous consequence, inflammation within the chest. In cases attended with great depression of tho fractured bone, the necessary incisions should bo made, in order to raise with an elevator tho por- tions of the bone driven inwards, or to extract with forceps any loose splinters, which seem to be simi- z z 4