CORNEA. 488 I I 2 with the surface, when it will rapidly and perfectly Jieal, leaving a dense white cicatrix. Ulcers, in some cases, heal with transparent material ; in others, when the ulceration is extensive, but shallow, it raaj' heal over transparently, without filling up, so as to leave a flattened surface very detrimental to clear or accurate vision. When the general powers of the patient are at a very low ebb, the ulcer will remain in a glassy transparent state, without any appreciable change of form or depth for a considerable time. In other cases the conjunctiva is highly injected, the surface of the ulcer, instead of being excavated, is raised some- whiit above the natui-al level of the cornea, and one or two vessels, carrying red blood, may be distinctly seen passing over the cornea to the lymph filling up the ulcer. The usual condition, after an ulcer is healed, is a dense white opacitj', gradually shaded off into the transparent cornea, the centre being the cicatrix of the ulcer and the margin interstitial deposit. Treatment. — During the first stage, that in which the ulcer is in process of formation, there is usually an excess of local action in the conjunctival membrane and the usual symptoms of acute oph- thalmia. Soothing applications, such as poppy fo- mentations, or warm water, together with the local abstraction of blood by means of a few leeches to the temple, followed up by counter-irritation be- hind the ear, are the most likely means of arrest ing the ulcerative process; at the same time it may be necessary to sustain the general power and counteract by constitutional treatment any abnor- mal state of the system that may exist. Thus, in children struma is often found in league with corneal ulceration. At puberty the menstrual function may be at fault; prolonged lactation is a fertile and very embarrassing cause; and, later in life, a feeble, shattered, and physically depraved state of system, the result of constant and prolonged intemperance, gives rise to ulceration of the cornea. We must ever bear in mind, that the most active and de- structive inflammatory and ulcerative processes are compatible with and even dependent upon a very feeble state of system, which may require tonics, Stimuli, and a very liberal dietary for their cure. In cases of acute and spreading ulcers, where pene- tration of the cornea is threatened, it becomes a matter of extreme importance to determine whether there is any means of arresting the progress of the ulceration. However judiciously the constitutional treatment may be conducted, there is every fear that penetration may occur, before a favourable re- action has time to take place; it, therefore, is an anxious question, whether we can, by any local ap- plication, bring about an altered action in the part and avert the impending danger. It is in such cases as these, that the nitrate of silver in substance is of great value; it should be finely pointed, and its application carefully limited as much as possible to the ulcer itself. In order to elVect this object, glycerine should be dropped into the eye previously, so as to protect the remainder of the surface from the action of the caustic. In other cases it must be admitted that the effect is less favourable —that it is productive of considerable pain and increased inflammatory action, and of infiltration of matter between the corneal layers. This is ciiicfly observed amongst the old and feeble; but the happy result that occurs in nu- merous cases, and the extreme urgency and threatening aspect of the symptoms, fully justify the use of the caustic. If we are unable to arrest the progress of the ulcer and perforation occurs, the iris immediately falls forward in contact with the opening, which, gradually enlarging, allows of its protrusion, and thus " prolapsus iridis " occurs, the natural resisting power and elasticity of the globe is weakened, the prolapse increases, the anterior sur- face of the eye bulges forward, and " staphyloma" occurs. It is very desirable, if possible, to obviate this lat. ter result; the best remedy is either puncturing the prolapse with a needle, which often causes it to con- tract and shrivel away, and thus to close up the cor- neal opening; or in case that fail, and the protrusion still increases, to remove it entirely. Under the most favourable circumstances, when the disease has produced such results, the integrity of the organ is seriously compromised; but it is quite possible that sufficient space may be preserved for the formation of an artificial pupil, and under any circumstances, it is most desirable to prevent the occurrence of a large staphyloraatous protrusion. In the glassj-- ulcer there is very little to combat locally, the con- junctiva is very slightly injected, there "is no sur- rounding opacity in the cornea, and no indication of any morbid action in the part except the loss of substance. Here we have evidently an error of nutrition, and our chief eflforts must be directed toward the constitutional condition of the patient; one of the remarkable features in the transparent ulcer is, the very lengthened period during which it will remain stationary and unaltered in its size and other characters. The local treatment is com- paratively xuiimportant, and should be of a very mild character. It has been suggested that the salts of lead, in solution, should not be employed in ulcers of the cornea, on account of the tendency to a permanent deposit upon the surface; and as there is no counteracting advantage to be gained by the use of the lead lotion, it is better to abstain froni it altogether where ulceration exists. Some cooling unirritating collyrium, such as rose-water or elder-flower water, or a weak solution of vinegar, is the best application. Where the case is very protracted and the surface of the ulcer becomes ir- ritable, it is sometimes advantageous to touch the surface lightly with the fine point of nitrate of sil- ver. It is particularly important in the glassy ulcer, to apprise the patient or his friends, that an opacity of the cornea must be expected, otherwise the symptoms are so mild, and the evidence of breach of siurface so faintly appreciable to unedu- cated vision, that discredit may easily attach to the surgeon who is in attendance, and, ns the ulcer be- gins to fill up, an impression will be gained that the case is retrograding, at the very time when it is drawing to an auspicious close. In cases of ulcer, with a vascular membrane, and organised deposit upon its surface, which is usually somewhat raised above the level of the rest of the cornea, and in which red vessels may be seen tm- velling to supply it, the treatment is diflicult. Wo have hero new and organised tissue to deal with- diseased action seems to have established itself, and' to have taken up its abode in the part, and this very nuich increases its power of resisting all re- medial means. Those cases generally occur in young females about the age of puberty, or a little anterior tn this, although they are also found in young strumous children. They appear to be due