I GUNSHOT WOUNDS, all cases the patient would have the best chance of success. No one will deny that if the shot per- iormed a regular amputation, it would not be better than to have to do it afterwards: but if they mean to say the operation should in general be performed immediately after the injury, I can only oppose to them the facts above stated, and the general results of ray experience, which is decidedly in favour of allowing the first moments of agitation to pass over before anything be done ; a period extending from that to one, six, or eight hours, according to the difference of constitution and the diiferent injuries that have been sustained. But, from one to three hours will, in most cases,be found sufficient." {Com- mentaries on the Surgery of the War, 6th ed. p. 41.) So far as my experience goes, when the neces- sity of amputation is undoubted, all delay is im- proper beyond the short period during which the faintness immediately arising from the injury usually lasts. In the campaign in Holland, 1814, the most successful amputations were those done A similar return from the Hospitals on the Bosphorus, from 26th September to the 27th November, 1854, shows corresponding results • — , - — ™».*w*4>j ty i_i i>iiunc UUlJt; in the field-hospitals directly after the arrival of the patients, or rather, as Dr. Hennen has ex- pressed It, with as little delay as possible. " While hundreds are waiting for the decision of the sur- geon, he will never be at a loss to select individuals who can safely and advantageously bear to be operated upon as quickly as himsel'f or assistants can ofi'er their aid ; but he will betray a miserable want of science indeed, if, in this crowd of sufi^erers, he indiscriminately amputates the weak, the terri' fied, the sinking, and the determined. While he is giving his aid to a few of the latter class, en- couragement and a cordial will soon make a change in the state of the weakly or the terrified ; and a longer period and more active measures' will render even the sinking proper objects for opera- tion." {On Military Surgery, p. 45, ed. 3.) It appears from some returns collected by Mr. Guthrie, that in the Peninsula the comparative loss, in secondary or delayed operations, and in primary or immediate amputations, was as follows : Secondary. Primary. Upper extremities . . . 12 to . .• 1 Lower extremities ... 3 to . . 1 The great success attending amputation on the field of battle was also convincingly proved after the battle of Toulouse. Here, of 47 immediate amputations, 38 were cured; while of the 61 de- layed operations on that occasion, 21 had fatal terminations. After the attack on New Orleans, out of 45 primary amputations 38 patients recovered, while only 2 of 7 secondary amputations termi- nated in the preservation of the patients. (Com- mentaries, edit. 6, p. 154 to 157.) [This interesting historical account of the pro- priety of performing primary in preference to secondary amputation for gunshot wounds of the extremities, is amply confirmed by the results of the practice in the British Hospitals in the Crimean War, as will be seen by the following tables. Relative mortality of primary and secondary amputations in the Crimean Hospitals, from 1st April, 1855, to the end of the war. Primary. Secondary. Remained under Treatment. h ■ V -a "2 c r> . ■a (3 — o ca 1 73 o Died g-gs !5 5 "3 o — >■ Sac s, 150 17 40 93 41 7 16 This long-agitated question as to the preference of primary or secondary amputation for severe gunshot wounds of the extremities, seems now un- equivocally dec.ded by the more recent experience of French and English military and naval surgeons in fiivour_ of the former, in all cases wherf the operation is indispensably necessarj- and the earlier the operation IS performed after faintness and shock have disappeared, the better will be the chance of a favourable issue.] Op Immediate Amputation. When a limb that has received a gunshot wound cannot be saved, amputation should be immediatelr practised. The first four-and-twenty hours, Baron Larrey observes, is the only period that nature remains tranquil (I should say, she does not re- main quiet so long), and we must hasten to take advantage of this period. In the army, a variety of circumstances make the urgency for amputation still greater 1 The inconvenience attending the transport of the wounded from the field of battle to the military hospitals in carriages badly suspended, the jolt- ing of which would produce such disorder in the wound and in the whole body, that most patients would die in the journej-, especially if it were the weather either extremely hot or and long, cold. 2. The hospitals : diminishes. Primary. Secondary. Total. Died, Total. Died. 654 165 78 36 danger of a long continuance in the a danger which amputation materially , by changing a gunshot injury into a wound that may be speedily healed, and reduc- ing the causes of fever, and hospital gangrene. 3. The cases in which there is a ne'cessity for abandoning the wounded. In this circumstance, it is of importance to have amputated ; for, after the operation, the patients may remain some days without being dressed, and the dressings are after- wards more easy. Op Cases in which Amputation SHOutD be Performed Immediately. First case.—A limb carried away by a cannon- ball, or the e-xplosion of a shell, requires amputation without loss of time, in order to procure the patient an oven, smooth incision, instead of an irregular, jagged, and highly dangerous wound. As the limb has commonly siiifered a violent con- cussion, is almost bereft of sense and power of motion, and the bone frequentlj^ has a fissure ex- tending some way upward, amputation is sometimes recommended to be done, if possible, above the nearest joint Hsemorrhage, says Baron Larrey,