HERNIA. 959 Scarpa argues, that, "under certain circum- stances, the cellular tissue will bear, without la- ceration, a considerable elongation, and afterwards shrink again. Thus, we often see a viscus, which has suffered a considerable displacement, return spontaneously into its natural situation. In oblique inguinal hernia, the spermatic cord is elongated, and descends further than in the natural state. No laceration of the cellular tissue, however, is then occasioned; for, if the hernia be kept reduced, the spermatic cord becomes shorter, daily retracts, and at last has only the same length which it had previously to the disease. When a sarcocele be- comes large and heavy, the portion of the sper- matic cord naturally situated within the belly is by degrees drawn out into the scrotum; but, after the tumor is extirpated, this portion ascends again, and of itself returns into its original situation. The same thing happens after the operation for strangulated inguinal hernia. The hernial sac re- tracts and reascends progressively towards the ring. This alone would prove, that the cellular tissue which surrounds the spermatic cord, and unites it to the hernial sac, is highly endowed with the pro- perty of yielding, and afterwards returning to its original state. Can the same property be refused to the cellular tissue which unites the sac to the surrounding parts ? " While the inguinal hernia is recent, and not of much size, the cellular tissue in question pos- sesses all its elasticity, and hence the hernial sac and the spermatic cord may easily ascend towards the abdominal ring. I have had occasion (says Scarpa) to make this observation upon the dead body of a man who had an incipient inguinal her- nia. The small hernial sac was capable of being pushed back into the ring with the utmost facility; and in carefully examining the parts, both within and without the belly, it appeared to me that the cellular substance which united the sac to the spermatic cord and cremaster muscle was disposed to yield equally from without inwards, and in the direction precisely opposite; that is to say, it made an equal resistance to the protrusion and the re- duction of the hernial sac. Monteggia has seen a case exactly similar; although, according to his own expressions {InslituK. C'Mrurg. t. iii. sec. 2, p. 249), the hernial sac was not very small, it ad- hered very loosely to the surrounding parts, and it admitted of being entirely reduced into the abdo- men with great facility." In large old scrotal herniee, Scarpa allows that such reduction is quite impracticable :—" In those the cellular tissue which unites the sac to the spermatic cord and cremaster muscle, has acquired such a density, that it does not oppose less resist- ance to the further enlargement of the hernia, than to the efforts of the surgeon who endeavours to effect its reduction." {Scarpa, Traite des Ilernies, p. .57, &c.) In the dead subject, Cloquet found the sac of a direct inguinal hernia reduced into the abdomen, whither it seemed to have been drawn by a piece of omentum adherent to what had, in its protruded state, been its fundus, {llechorchcs sur Ics Causes, des Hermes, p. 102.) The investigations of the same author prove, that complete or incom- plete inversions of the sac may also happen in femoral and in direct inguinal hernia, without the existence of any adhesion; but that the inti- mate union between the sac and spermatic cord hinders the event in external or common inguinal ruptures. Le Dran dissected a case in which the sac of a femoral hernia, with its contents, had been returned into the abdomen in a mass. Dupuytren saw a similar case. {Clin. Chir.t.i. p. 559.) And in another place, he states, that he had seen forty instances of herniae being re- turned in a mass, without any abatement of the bad symptoms (p. 564). The observations of Cloquet also tend to confirm the possibility of the latter occurrence, which he describes as happening with more facility in the internal or direct in- guinal rupture, than in the crural, and with most difficulty in the external or oblique inguinal hernia. In females, when an inguinal hernia occurs (which is uncommon), the round ligament of the uterus bears the same relation to the tumor as the spermatic cord in males. According to Sir Astley Cooper, the sac is much more considerable above the abdominal ring than below it; and hence difficulty in the operation. All the cases which he has seen have been intestinal. The stricture is, in almost all cases, at a considerable distance above the abdominal ring; it may be divided up- wards or outwards with safety, as the epigastric artery is situated more towards the linea alba. (See Lancet, vol. ii. p. 172.) Mr. Lawrence had a very rare instance pointed out to him, in which an inguinal hernia in a female was situated on the inner side of the epigastric artery. On the 12th of March, 1831, I operated upon Mrs. Smith, of No. 14 Cumberland Street, Middlesex Hospital, for a strangulated internal inguinal hernia; she recovered in the most favour- able manner. A still rarer case was examined by Hesselbach; it was not only an example of an in- ternal inguinal hernia in a woman, but of one in which the epigastric artery arose from the obtu- ratrix artery an inch from the origin of this latter vessel from the inner side of the external iliac; the obturatrix first' passed an inch obliquely down- wards and inwards over the crural vein, and imme- diately afterwards, on the horizontal ramus of the pubes, made a sudden turn backward and down- ward to the obturator foramen; and at this bend arose the epigastric artery, which ran transversely inward along the horizontal ramus of the pubes, behind the neck of the herniiil sac, at the inner side of which it ascended to the rectus muscle, accompanied by the ligamentous remains of the umbilical arteries, which were close behind it. [Ueber den Ursprung, (Sic. der Leisten-und-Schen- kelbr'iiohe, p. 17.) [According to Hesselbach's nomenclature, on account of the position of the artery, this ought to be called an external inguinal hernia, although it did not pass out of the internal ring, but directly through the abdominal wall, between the internal ring and the remains of the umbilical artery. According to Sir A. Cooper it might be termed a direct inguinal hernia with the epigastric artery on the inside of the neck of the sac from irregularity of distribution of that artery.] Mauks of Discrimination uetwbbn Ingui- nal IlERNIiE and other DISEASES. The disorders in which a mistake may possibly bo made, are Varicocele, Bubo, Hi/drocele, and Hernia Ilumoralis, or Iiijlamed Testicle. For an account of the mannerof distinguishing the first complaint from a hernia, see Varicocele.