CONJUNCTIVA. 467 various prominences, excrescences, and warty growthsj in the neighbourliood of the rectum and genitals, in both sexes. As some of these differ in their nature and in the treatment required for their removal, it would be desirable not to include them under the same designation. The excrescences and warty growths do not arise from the virus of syphilis, are not benefitted by mercurial treatment, and may safely be treated by excision, or by es- charotics, while the smooth round slightly.raised moist prominence, called by the French pathologists iubercule muquma; and to which it would be better to restrict the tenn condyloma, is a true secondary symptom of the venereal poison, and gives way readily to a mercurial treatment general and local. To the condyloma as thus defined, the best local applications are the black wash, calomel in powder, a lotion of the bichloride of mercury of the strength of two grains to the ounce of distilled water, or mercurial fumigation durectly applied.] (See SvPHiLis.) [CONGESTION.] [{Co7igesiio, iiom congero,to amass). Congestion of blood. Accumulation of blood in a part, with a languid or retarded circu- lation. Some of the most eminent pathologists have preferred the term " hypereemia," which is most consonant with the phraseology relating to the pathology of the blood employed generally in this dictionary. (See Blood, Pathology op ; Hyperemia ; Inflammation.)] CONIUM MACULATUM. Hemlock. — Cicuta. This is a medicine to which my observa- tions in practice incline me to impute considerable efficacy. However, there is no doubt that, when it was represented as a certain cure for cancer and scrofula, great exaggeration was employed. Hem- lock certainly has no power of curing cancer ; but its narcotic anodyne qualities may sometimes tend to lessen the pain of that distemper, so as to render it a useful remedy in that intractable kind of case. The common mode of exhibiting hemlock is in the form of pills, made of the extractum conii, five grains to each. However, I have always thought three grains sufficient to begin with, the dose being afterwards gradually augmented. The stomach being a little disordered, and the head somewhat giddy, is a sign of the dose being sufficiently strong. The activity of hemlock is now found to reside in a resinous element, termed conia, obtained sepa- rately, by evaporating an ethereal tincture of the leaves on the surface of water. A dose of half a grain will produce vertigo and headache. The watery extract of this plant has been proved by Orfila to have but little power. (</. A. Paris, in Fharmacoloffiu, vol. ii. p. 180, ed. 6.) According to Professor A. T. Thomson, the extract is an objectionable preparation, owing to the difficulty of preserving it. The best, he says, is the tincture of the Edinburgh and Dublin Colleges. (See Tliom- soris Elemcnls of Materia Mcdica, p. 429, ed. 2.) In various cases of scrofulous diseases, and also in several very painful irritable ulcers and swell- ings, conium is occasionally applied in the form of fomentations, lotions, and poultices. The latter are generally made by mixing the powder with the common bread and water cataplasm ; the lotions, by dissolving 3 ij. or 3 iv. of the extract in ^ viij. of water. F. Hoffman, Of Hemlock, 8vo. Lend. 1763. A. Storck, Libellus, quo deraonstratur cicutam non solum usu interne tutissim^ exliiberi, sed et esse simul remedium valdfe utile, &c.; editio al^a, 8vo. Vindob. 1761. Also Supplementum Necessarium de Cicutii, 8vo. Vindob. 1761. J. Pearson, On various Articles of the Materia Medica, &c. 2d ed. Svo. London, 1807. J. A. Paris, Pharmacoloffia, ed. P. A. T. Thomson, Elem. of Mat. Med. p. 425, &c. ed. 2. Svo. Lond. 1835. CONJUNCTIVA. [The conjunctiva is simi- lar in texture to other mucous membranes, but its different portions offer peculiarities. Some parts of it are thickly beset with follicles and papilitE ; others consist merely of cellular tissue and epi- thelium. The nerves of the conjunctiva are nume- rous ; they are derived Irom the fifth, and are con- nected especially with those of the ciliary region. " The appearance of the conjunctiva in health," says Mr. Dixon, "varies greatly according to age, occupation, and climate. In infancy and child- hood, the vessels are so small and few that, except at the inner and outer canthi, there are hardly any visible to a casual observer ; and the sclerotica has, in consequence, a uniformly white and glistening aspect. As age advances, the conjunctival ves- sels become larger and more noticeable, espe- cially in persons much exposed to weather, so that a considerable degree of redness of the con- junctiva may exist without constituting a disease. In most people after the middle period of life, a yellow deposit occurs beneath the conjunctiva, which in anxious persons often gives rise to a good deal of needless alarm. It appears in the form of little yellowish-white elevations, around which there is usually a fine plexus of vessels. They never overstep the margin of the cornea ; they are termed ' Pinguecula,' and need not be interfered with." Congenital absence of the orbit, and also cases of anchyloblepharon, are always accompanied by ab- sence of the conjunctiva. A rudimentary development of the globe and anophthalmus are associated with an abnormal structure of the conjunctiva. The latter is conti- nuous in cases of monophthalmia and cyclopia. The surface of the conjunctiva is proportionate to that of the globe, whatever may have caused its enlargement. An increase of size of the plica semilunaris has been observed by Dubois. {Ann. d'OcuL, vol'- xxxiv. p. 268.) A decrease of the conjunctival surface is observed congenitally with deformities of the globe, and in after life with diiniimtion of its size. A yellow colour of the conjunctiva is observed in icterus ; a gray leaden colour in patients who have internally or externally used nitrate of silver for a long time. Malignant Diseases of the. Conjunctiva.~0l malignant diseases of the conjunctiva we may men- tion lupus, the epithelial, medullary, and mela- notic cancer. Lupus.—A primary development of lupus has not been observed in the conjunctiva. Lupus tubercles are preceded by hyperiemia, swelling and by infiltration of a gelatinous substance. They appear as small or largo yellowish-gray, whitish- gray, or yellowish-red wrirts, with a 'large base. They very rarely encroach upon the cornea. Cancer of (/to Conjunctiva.—A case of primary epithelial cancer of this mombrano has been ob- served by Seitz ; the general rule is that the con- H It 2