AMPUTATION, Avards and tlien outwards, in a line first marked out for tlie direction of the knife. In this way the flap was more quickly made. The leg should be completely extended during the operation, and kept in that posture till the wound is perfectly healed. ^ ^ I will next notice Mr. Hey's method. He be- lieved that very near the ankle was not the proper place for this kind of amputation. Some cases occurring, in which, from a scrofulous habit, the stump would not heal eompletely, nor remain healed, Mr. Hey determined to try whether amputation in a more muscular part would not secure a complete healing, and give the patient an opportunity of resting his knee on the common wooden leg, or using a socket, as he might find it most convenient. Mr. Hey latterly preferred this method, and selected the middle of the leg as the place where the bones should be sawn through. His operation was by posterior flap, and he gave detailed instructions for regulating its exact dimensions. Mr. Fergusson, like Mr. Hey, and for similar reasons, selects the middle of the leg whenever he has the choice of site. He thinks that a stump of sufficient length for fixing any apparatus will thus be left, while, if it should be found that the weight of the body cannot be sustained in this way, the projection, when the knee is bent, will appear so trifling that little objection can be taken to it. (OjO. &(r£r. ed. 3, p. 494.) fin selecting the most appropriate situation to amputate the leg (when the surgeon has the power of selection), it should be remembered always that the risk to the patient^s life is a consideration of even greater moment than his subsequent conveni- ence in progression, and that risk will certainly be much less in amputations near the ankle than in those through the calf of the leg, both on account of the smaller size of the wound and the smaller pro- portion of the limb which is taken away. M, Velpeau states the proportion of deaths after am- putation at the usual place of election to be as one to four or five, while in amputation near the ankle it is only about one in ten. The diminution in risk, then, is a verj'^ weighty argument in favour of the amputation low down. But, in addition to this, the only valid objection to the lower operation, namely, that the end of the stump is incapable of bearing pressuie, has been removed by the greater perfection which has been attained in the adapta- tion of artificial limbs; since in no case, if they are properly constructed, is the pressure made to fall on this part, but is distributed equally over the rest of tiie limb. Mr. F. Gray, who has had great ex- perience in the construction of artificial limbs, and has introduced many villuable improvements in their mechanism, says that " in no instance, except in Synie's and Chopart's operations, can mil/ pres- sure be taken on the end or point of the stump, which is exquisitely sensitive and tender," and he takes especial care that nothing whatever shall come in contact with it." Mr. Gray considers that the best place for am- putation, so far as the mechanical adaptation is concerned, is at the upper part of the lower third of the leg. This leaves the patient a complete command over the artificial limb, without being so long as to interfere with its mechanical arrange- ments. (See Automalic Mechanism, by F. Gray, p. 85.) If, then, we take into consideration the twofold recommendation of the diminution of risk and the subsequent advantages to the patient, there can be little doubt that the real place of election is in the lower third of the lirab, and that the calf of the leg should only be selected in exceptional cases where the expense of an artificial limb would be a continual burden to the patient; and not even then unless it appear probable that his state of health and constitution will carry him safely through the more severe operation. Mr. Quain observes, it may be that the shorter stump is more convenient to the poor man because it will fit better the supporting ledge of the common pin leg with which he is obliged to be content af- terwards. He believes, however, the superior con- venience in this respect to be outweighed by the greater risk attending the larger wound. But in the case of all those who can afford the expense of the better constructed artificial limb, he thinks the lower amputation is beyond all question the more advantageous one for the facility of progres- sion. (See Med. Tmes.Dec. 1851, p. 659.) M.Bour- gdry, in comparing the amputation at the old place of election with that near the malleoli, says that both statistics and authority are in favour of the lower operation. Many surgeons whom he quotes, and " others whom it would be too long to enume- rate, both in France and in other countries, are so convinced of its superiority, that they would prefer it even if no convenient artificial support could be obtained." (See M&d. Oph: tom. i. p. 246.) In the lower third of the leg, as in the upper, the circular method, or that with a posterior flap, may be adopted; but it will not be necessary again to describe either operation in detail. That by posterior flap is objectionable on account of the flap being composed almost entirely of the tendo Achillis. Perhaps the most convenient mode of operating is by two semicircular flaps composed of the integuments only. These flaps may be formed either from the antero-posterior, or from the lateral surfaces of the limb. Thej' should of course be made, not by transfixion, but by incision from without inwards. After they have been dissected up and reflected, the muscles should be divided opposite to their base by a circular incision. In the ordinary circular operation there is sometimes a difficulty in turning up the skin, in consequence of the increasing size of the limb from below upwards at this part. This difficulty is avoided by dividing the integuments in tlie way suggested above. When the amputation is done very near the ankle there is no interosseous space through which the knife can be passed : the retractor therefore need only have one slit, instead of two as in operating higher up.] [Amputation at the Knbb-Joint.] [Amputation through this joint was performed nearly three centuries ago by Fabricius Hildanus (15fJI), after which period it appears to have fallen into disuse till about 1764, when it was practised with considerable success by Hoin of Dijon, and advocated by J. L. Petit, and after- wards by Brasdor. Subsequently to this, although it was performed occasionally, it may be said to have bein proscribed by the general opinion of surgeons till reintroduced by M. Velpeau in 1 !!30. M. Velpeau collected the records of fourteen cases, out of which he found that only one had terminated fatally, and judging from these very favourable