HERNIA. y48 bed. {Cent. v. obs. 54.) LeDran and Arnaud relate instances of very large hernise wliich disap- peared entirely after the patients had been long confined to bed, and rendered much emaciated by tedious illnesses. Some of the moderns have imi- tated this operation of nature, and, by frec^uent bleedings and repeated purges, have sometimes so far reduced the size of the hernia, that it has been returned into the abdomen. Mr. Hey has several times succeeded in this way (p. 219). But the practice cannot prove successful when the viscera adhere to the sac, or to the peritoneum, just within tlie abdomen. The greatest objection to this method of cure is the want of an absolute criterion for dis- tinguishing when the parts do or do not adhere to the hernial sac; and, in advanced years, though one were sure that the viscera were free from the sac, the possibility of hurting the constitution by the necessary evacuations is also another objection. {Sliarp's Critical Inquiry, p. 15.) Were the plan to be thought worthy of trial, keeping up a constant pressure on the tumor, by means of a suspensory bandage made to lace in front, would be proper for promoting the absorp- tion of the thickened parts in the hernial sac. Sir A. Cooper has reduced such herniae after applying ice to them, the good effects of which he imputes to its producing a contraction of the scrotum, and by this means a strong and permanent compression of the tumor. Mr. Earle once mentioned to me the suggestion of keeping up a general pressure on the swelling by means of a bladder containing quicksilver, the quantity of which can be regulated according to circumstances. Whenever any attempt of this kind succeeds, a truss should be immediately put on, and worn with- out remission. However, there are instances on record where the capacity of the abdomen had become so adapted to the diminished quantity of the viscera, that when the contents of the hernia had been reduced, serious complaints arose from their introduction into the belly. Schmucker met with several such cases, in which he was obliged to take off the truss again. Petit has known the reduction of a hernia of this kind prove fatal, the parts not descending again when the truss was removed, the nausea and vomiting continuing, and peritonitis taking place. (Chirurgische Wahrnelinmngen, vol. ii. p. 243; Maladies Chir. t. ii. p. 392.) Mr. Pott remarks "that an omental rupture which has been so long in the scrotum as to have become irreducible, is very seldom attended with any bad symptoms, considered abstractedly; but it is constantly capable of being the occasion of an intestinal hernia, and all its consequences. Neither is that all; for the omentum, either so altered in form and texture, or so connected, as to be incapable of reduction, may by accident in- flame, and either become gangrenous or suppurate, and occasion a great deal of trouble." In a few instances, epiploceles produce very bad symptoms indeed; cases of which are to be found in Garen- geot, Dionis, &e. Symptoms and Treatment op a Strangu- lated, OR AN Incarcerated Hernia. — Means to be tried before an Operation. If the prolapsed parts cannot be immediately re- placed, and the patient suffers pain, or is prevented inerefey from goim^ to stool, the case is called an incarcerated hernia, a strangulated hernia, or a hernia with stricture, A patient thus circumstanced is in some dan- ger, and demands immediate assistance. A stric- ture made on the prolapsed part of the gut by the aperture or canal through which it passes, is the immediate cause of all the bad symptoms, and, of course, the release of the intestine from such stricture is the only thing which can bring relief. This object can only be accomplished by returning the bowel back into the abdomen, or dividing the parts which form the stricture. The'former plan is always the most desirable when practicable. I next proceed to notice the various measures to be adopted for the relief of a strangulated her- nia, so as to obtain the best chance of obviating the necessity of an operation. After treating of the merits of each plan, a few remarks will be offered on the order in which these means should be put in practice. The Taaois.—This is the term applied to the operation of reducing a hernia with the hand. It is to be promoted by the position of the body, which Winslow thought should be placed on an inclined plane, with the thighs bent towards the trunk. Sir A. Cooper advises the same practice, observing that this posture, by relaxing the fascia of the thigh, relaxes also the aperture through which the hernia passes. Every degree of tension, and relaxation of the femoral fascia, must un- doubtedly be attended with a corresponding change in the abdominal ring. But flexion of the thigh, besides relaxing this fascia, also relaxes the abdo- minal, internal iliac, and psoas muscles. In ob- lique inguinal hernia, the pressure made on the tumor by the hands of the surgeon should always be directed upwards and outwards, along the course of the spermatic cord; and Sir A. Cooper advises it to be continued from a quarter to half an hour. As the femoral hernia passes downwards, and then forwards, the pressure must be directed first backwards, and then upwards. In umbilical and ventral herniaj, it is to be made straight back- wards. No violence should ever be used; for, besides being unavailing, it greatly aggravates the inflamed state of the contents of the hernial sac, and has been known even to burst the intestine. (See Sir A. Cooper,On Ingui7>al Hernia,^c.-p. 23.) Besides bending the thigh, care should also be taken to rotate it inwards, which will have great effect in relaxing the femoral fascia, and tendon of the external oblique muscle. The manoeuvre of gently pulling the intestine downwards, or a little way further out of the ring, previously to the attempt to reduce the hernia, has Ijeen suggested. (See Dalfotir^s Neiv Mode of the Taxis, in Med. and Phjs. Jour. Nov. 1824.) Tlie plan, I believe, is not entirely new. Mr. Lawrence says that it will sometimes succeed when the difficult}' of reduction is owing to an accumulation of faecal matter. The return of a piece of intestine is generally preceded by a peculiar noise, caused by the passage of air through the stricture. It recedes at first gradually, and then slips up suddenly. The omen- tum goes up slowly to the very last portion, which must be actually pushed through the opening. If the taxis should not succeed at first, it will often do so after the warm bath, bleeding, or cold ap- plications. Small hernim, being attended with