and all his contemporaries praised his singular dex- terity and success. As an essential step to the success of the operation, he recommended hinder- ing the children from sleeping a certain length of time before it was undertalcen, in order that they might fall asleep immediately afterwards ; and with the same view opiates have heen prescribed. Baron Dupuytren deems it unsafe to operate on newborn children, because their flesh is so soft that the pins readily cut through it, and because general mortality, independent of every particular cause, being at this age greater than at any other period of life, it woiUd be imprudent to augment the chances of death which hang over the young being, by an additional one resulting from the operation. On tlie whole, he infers, that the best period for operating is when the infant is three months old. (See Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 90—92.) [More recent experience has led most surgeons of the present day to operate as soon as possible after birth. Dr. P. Frank informs me that he as- sisted Dr. Wagner to operate on a child two hours and a half after birth. I have done the operation myself four hours after birth, and the infant fell asleep before the application of the suture was completed. Langenbeck, who advocates early operation strongly, says he has frequently seen children fall asleep thus before the surgeon's task is over. Quite apart from other considerations, early operation seems desirable on account of the ac- knowledged influence which closure of the labial fissure exercises in promoting union of the palatine cleft. In the first year of life, the growth of the incisive portion and alveolar process is more rapid than that of the palatine process. Union, there- fore, must commence anteriorly, and it is obvious that it must be favoured by the pressure exercised by the united lip, which can then be used for the purpose of suction. Without this pressure, muscu- lar action would evidently tend to increase the breadth of the fissure.] Putting out of consideration the partial success wliich has attended the use of blistering plaster, for making the edges of the fissure raw and capable of union, all practitioners entertain the same sen- timent with regard to the object of this operation, which consists in reducing the preternatural solu- tion of continuity to the state of a simple wound, by cutting off the edges of the separated parts throughout their length, and tiien keeping these parts in contact until they have completely grown together. But, although such principles have been generally admitted, there was formerly some difference of opinion with respect to the best me- thod to be followed in practice; some operators having preferred sutures for keeping the edges of the wound in contact, while others disapprove of them, believing that a perfect cure might always be accomplished by means of adhesive plaster and a uniting bandage, so as to save the patient from all the pain and annoyance of sutures. Modern surgeons do not doubt that a hare-lip may possibly be cured by means of adhesive plaster and uniting bandages, quite as perfectly as with a suture; and they readily allow that the first of these methods, as being more simple and less pain- ful, would be preferable to the latter if it were equally sure of succeeding. But it is far more un- certain in its effect. To accomplish a complete cure, the parts to be united must be maintained in E-LIP. 869' perfect contact until they have contracted the ne- cessary adhesion; and how can we always depend upon a bandage for keeping them from being dis- placed? What other means, besides a suture, affords in this respect perfect security ? I shall first describe the operation as usually performed at the present day. It may be divided into three stages. 1. Loosening the lip. 2. Paring the edges of the cleft. 3. Uniting the raw edges. 1. Loosening the Lip.—The first thing is to ex- ivmine whether there is any adhesion of the lip to the gum; and, if there be, to divide it with a knife. Some authors {Sharp) recommend the frsenulum, which attaches the lip to the gum, always to be divided: but when the hare-lip is at some distance from this part, it will not be in the way of the operation, and need not be cut. On the other hand, when the frtenulum is situated in the centre of the division, it should be divided beforehand. [In separating the lip from the alveolar process, to loosen the parts, Soupert (Nouveau Procede. pour leBec cleLievre, Brussels, 1858) is careful to preserve the labial fr<Bnum, as he imagines that in after-life the lip loses much of its characteristic expression if the frasnum be removed.] When one of the incisor teeth, opposite the fis- sure, projects forward, it must be drawn, lest it irritate the parts after they have been brought into contact. Sometimes, but particularly when a cleft exists in the bony part of the palate, a portion of the upper jaw forms such a projection, just in the situ- ation of the fissure in the lip, that it would render the union very difficult, if not impracticable. In this circumstance, the common plan has been to cut off the projecting angles of bone with a strong pair of bone-nippers. The part was then healed, and the operation for the hare-lip performed. Cut- ting off the projection of bone leads to a diminu- tion m the diameter of the bone, which no longer corresponds to the lower jaw-bone, and great dis- figurement, and even inconvenience in mastication, are the consequences. Hence, Desault used to employ simple compression, by which means the prominence was usually reduced in a few weeks and the opportunity aftbrded of operating for the cure of the hare-lip. {Oitwres Cliir, t ii p ''07 ) Of course the actual necessity of using bone-nippers or even of having recourse to compression, will de- pend upon circumstances; for if the prominence of bone be sharp and irregular, no surgeon, I conceive would hesitate about the removal of such inequali- ties in preference to the trial of pressure; but a moderate prominence of bone, without any sharp, irritating edges, or angles, will not hinder the suc- cess of the operation; and even the propriety of removing teeth must entirely depend upon their being likely, by their direction, to irritate the lip, and disturb the union of the fissure. One serious objection to cutting away the pro- jection of the jaw is the deformity afterwards, likely to continue during life, from the deficiency of the incisor teeth; and another is the subsequent overlapping of the lower jaw, and its projection beyond the upper one ; communicating to the mouth an appearance seen in very old subjects. These were the considerations which have induced me to employ pressure, which is much more con- veniently applied by means of a kind of spring truss, adapted to the child's head, than with bandages, which woiild be seriously annoying, and the right 3K 3