Si6 111 t ie dissection of soraehajmatoceles, the tunica vaginalis is found excessively thickened; and the blood in It, whether coagnlated or fluid, is of the colour of coffee. Sir Astley Cooper refers to a preparation at St, Thomas's Hospital, exemplifying the serious mistake of removing the testicle, while the^ true disease was merely haaraatocele. The tunica vaginalis was excessively thickened, and filled with coagulated blood of a brownish red colour. (Op. cit. p. 215.) A negro died in St. George's Hospital, who had an enlargement of one testicle; but as it had occa- sioned little or no inconvenience, the surgeon had not been consulted. Sir Benjamin Brodie ex- amined the part after the patient's death, and found a very large quantity of grumous blood in the tunica vaginalis, and at the back part a soft pulpy mass was seen, not at all resembling the testicle in structure, and only recognisable as such by its connection with the epididymis and vas deferens. Sir Benjamin Brodie conceives, that the changed state of the testicle had been occasioned by the pressure of a large quantity of blood. (See Lond. Med. Gaz. 1831-1832, p. 927.) Ilasmatocele is sometimes unaccompanied by pain : this is the case when the quantity of blood is small, and no inflammation present. Under other circumstances, the disease may be attended with excessive pain, and bring on abscesses, gan- grene, and dangerous degrees of constitutional dis- turbance. This was exemplified in the person whom I have mentioned as having produced hematocele by plunging a large lancet into his own hydrocele, for the purpose of curing it himself. In this instance, which I visited with Mr. Bransby Cooper, if a free and prompt incision had not been made to discharge the matter and putrid blood, the patient would soon have lost his life by the violence of the constitutional disturbance. Sir Benjamin Brodie mentions a painter, who was in the habit of drinking to excess, and who, while climbing a liidder, was seized with pain in the testicle, and an enormous hajmatocele formed. In this patient, the symptoms at first were more nearly allied to mania than delirium. If heematocele be occasioned by a blow, and not accompanied by hydrocele, and the quantity of blood in the tunica vaginalis be moderate, the treat- ment should consist in keeping the patient in the recumbent position, administering purgative medi- cines, and covering the tumor with a cold lotion, which will have the eff'ect of checking any further internal bleeding. These means will prevent in- flammation, and, after a time, the blood will pro- bably be absorbed. Were the quantity of blood considerable, its pressure might cause an absorp- tion of the testicle {Sir B. Brodie), or, at all events, )t would be likely to excite inflammation, and have little or no chance of being dispersed: in such a case, therefore, the best practitioners agree, respect- ing the propriety of laying open the tunica vagi- nalis, and taking out tlie blood. If hcBmatocele be combined with hydrocele, and free from much inflammation, Sir Astley Cooper recommends making an incision into the tunica vagi- nalis, discharging its contents, and, without intro- uucing any lint into the cavit}-, leaving the cure to Jjo completed by the process of inflammation. (On Ihe Structure, ^c. of the Testis, p. 216.) Jf, on drawing off a hydrocele, the contents are t">gc!d with blood, Sir Benjamin Brodie allows HjEMATOCELE. the fluid to collect ag iin, and repeats the tappings at intervals, until no blood is mixed with it. The injection may then be used with success. Should the quantity of blood be large, he regards the expectation of its being removed by absorption as hopeless, and, therefore, punctures the tunica va- ginalis with a lancet, introduces a director into the opening, and then enlarges it with a scalpel. Whoever has read the observations of Pott on this subject will know that the operation of laying open the tunica vaginalis, for the cure of ha;mat tocele, is sometimes followed by a severe attack of symptomatic fever, delirium, and even death. In unfavourable constitutions, the symptoms will ge- nerally prove serious, whatever be the mode adopted of dressing the wound, or the internal treatment. But now that the plan of introducing lint and other extraneous substances into the exposed cavity is abandoned, bad cases are far less frequent than formerly. The violence of the symptoms will generally depend upon the degree of inflammation in the parts, and the kind of constitution in which It occurs. If hajmatocele excite inflammation, the clots of blood putrefy, and a gangrenous suppura- tion follows, attended with an accumulation of sulphuretted hydrogen in the part, and most urgent danger. Here a free opening must be made with- out dela}', the scrotum poulticed or covered with cold lotions, and the patient kept under the influ- ence of the muriate or acetate of morphia. Mr. Pott, in his account of heematocele, compre- hends one species, which he describes as an extra- vasation of blood within the tunica albuginea. I confess that no good reason appears for arrang- ing cases of this kind with hasmatocele; for what are they but diseased testicles, which have been punctured, either on account of their seeming to contain a fluid, or really having within them cysts filled with a chocolate-coloured or other fluid, as I have seen in hundreds of instances of sarcocele ? and whatever blood is discharged is notextravasated in the substance of the testis previously to the puncture, but issues as a necessary consequence of that proceeding. Another species of heematocele, noticed by Pott, arises from the bursting of a branch of the sper- matic vein, between the groin and scrotum, within the sheath of the cord. This, which is generally produced by great or sudden exertions of strength, feats of agility, &c, may happen to persons in the best liealth. I cannot conceive that in any case of a mere rupture of one of the spermatic veins, it can ever be justifiable to tie the whole spermatic cord, and then perforin castration, thougli Pott advises this plan, if the bleeding branch cannot be tied singly. Discutient applications, and an occasional purge, will almost always disperse the swelling ; and if not, opening it, and taking out the blood, applying cold, or, if necessary, filling the cavity with lint, and using compression, would be, according to my humble judgment, tlie most judicious treatment With regard to the extravasation of blood in the loose cellular tissue of the scrotum, from blows on the part, and sometimes from lithotomy, castration, &c., I have seen it followed by suppuration and sloughing; but in general tlio eflused blood is gradually absorbed, with the aid of discutient ap- plications, leeches, fomentations, poultices, and saline purges. A surgeon should generally be re- luctant to lay open tlie tumor, as, in many in-