952 leeches applied HERNIA. 41 ' ^ ,^ Lawrence has justly observed, that « when, as it very fre- quently happens, the aid of the surgeon is not re- quired until the complaint has lasted for some time, a trial of the tobacco, together with the topi- cal use of cold, should be immediately resorted to, as circumstances will not admit of delay in the previous use of less powerful remedies" (p 148 ed. 3). ' _ Every man who has seen much of hernice will immediately recognise the propriety of the follow- ing sentiments of the experienced Hey: " I can scarcely press in too strong terms the necessity of an early recourse to the operation, as the most eifectual method of preserving life in this danger- ous disease. If Mr. Pott's opinion be true, that the operation, when perfoi-med in a proper manner and in due time, does not prove the cause of death oftener than perhaps once in fifty times, it would undoubtedly preserve the lives of many to per- form it almost as soon as the disease commenced, without increasing the danger by spending much time in the use of means which cannot be de- pended upon for a cure. I have twice seen this disease prove fatal in about twenty-four hours. In such cases it is evident there is little time for delay. A surgeon who is competent to perform the operation is not perhaps consulted till the in testine is on the point of being mortified, or is actually in a state of mortification. The dilemma into which he is then cast is painful indeed. But when the fullest opportunity is aflforded him of using the best mode of treatment, I am satisfied that his success will be the greatest when the operation is not long delayed. This, at least, has been my own experience. When I first entered upon the profession of surgery, in the year 1759, the operation for strangulated hernia had not been performed by any of the surgeons in Leeds. My seniors in the profession were very kind in affording me their assistance, or calling me into consultation when such cases occurred; but we considered the operation as the last resource, and as improper until the danger appeared imminent. By this dilatory mode of practice, I lost three patients in five upon whom the operation was per- lorraed. Having more experience of the urgency of the disease, I made it my custom, when called to a patient who had laboured two or three days under the disease, to wait only about two hours, that I might try the effect of bleeding (if this eva- cuation was not forbidden by some peculiar cir- cumstances of the case) and the tobacco clyster. In this mode of practice, I lost about two patients in nine upon whom I operated. This comparison IS drawn from cases nearly similar, leaving out of the account those cases in which a gangrene of the intestine had taken place. " I have now, at the time of writing this, per- formed the operation thirty-five times, and have often had occasion to lament that I had performed It too late, but never that I had performed it too soon. There are some cases so urgent that it is not advisable to lose any time in the trial of means to produce a reduction. The delay of a few hours may cut off nil hope of success, when a speedy operation might have saved the life of the patient (p. 1^ 1, Scc.) "determine the exact moment when to give p the trial of the preceding measures, and to "•ive immediate recourse to the operation, is cer- tainly difficult; but no one can doubt that it is generally better to operate too early than too late All directions must be general ones, liable to many exceptions; in rapid cases, little or no time should be allotted to the trial of any plan, and the operation should be done without the least delay. In other instances, we have full time to try the effects of everything at all likely to succeed. The symptoms which ought to guide us in having recourse to the operation arise from an attack of inflammation in that part of the intestine contained m the hernial sac, and from its spreading into the abdominal cavity. It is in proportion to their violence that we ought to urge the performance of the operation. Sir A. Cooper considers pain on pressing the bellj-, and tension, as the symptoms which point out its immediate necessity. He adds, "Indeed, there is scarcely any period of the' symptoms which should forbid the operation; for. even if mortification has actually begun, the operation may be the means of saving life', by pro- moting the ready separation of gangrenous parts." {On Inguinal and Congenital Hernia, p. 27.) According to Mr. Guthrie, if a patient labour under a strangulated hernia, even one of recent formation, and the general symptoms are verj'severe the operation should not be delayed, although the tumor itself may be comparatively but little painful. "These general sy-mptoms are the pain at the umbilicus, the irritability of the stomach, the anxiety of countenance, and the failing state of the pulse. If, in a young healthy man, strangulation had existed only four or six hours, the swelling were tense and painful when touched, the nausea and sickness frequent, the pain at the umbilicus severe and increased on pressure, the pulse small and hard, the countenance distressed, Mr. Guthrie would be for the immediate performance of the operation. If the part were but little painful, and the umbilicus not acutely sensible, he would defer the operation until the effect of bleeding unto syn- cope, in combination with the hot bath, had been ascertained. Mr. Guthrie remarks that a hernia of recent formation cannot remain in a state of in- carceration ending in strangulation for a longer period than ten hours, without placing the patient's life in great jeopardy." {On Inguinal and Femoral Hernia, p. 24,) I have sometimes operated di- rectly, without expending time in the trial of any measure but the taxis: of course, these were urgent and advanced cases. [In all cases of strangulated hernia after the taxis has failed in the warm bath, probably more lives would be saved by the patient being placed, without further delaj', under the influence of chloroform, and if the ta.xis should be again un- successful, by at once proceeding to perform the operation.] Whenever the surgeon has succeeded in re- ducing the parts without having recourse to tiie knife, if the symptoms of pain, inflammation, &c. ran high before such reduction, they will not alwaj's cease immediately afterwards. As thej' probably depend on the reduced bowel having been inflamed by the stricture, the body should be kept open, and the diet and regimen should be low and sparing, whilst the least degree of pain and tension remain; in short, till all complaint is absolutely removed from the abdomen, and the intestines do their office freely and without trouble. (Polt.)