404 CANC to no serioug derangement of health, and forming rather a local inconvenience tlian a malady, should certainly not be interfered with." Mr. Paget estimates the avernge duration of life in persons affected with scirrhus at something more tii;ni 4.9 months. But out of 60, there were 2'2 dead in 2 years, 32 dead in 2^ years, and only 15 lived bej-ond the average. In these cases there was no operation. " In 47 cases, in which the cancer was once or more removed by operation,the average duration of life after the first observation of the disease was again something more than 49 months." The removal of the local disease, there- fore, does not increase the average duration of life, but it appears from the table as if the course of disease that would otherwise be very rapid is retarded by it. Recurrence of the cancer took place within 3 months in 23 cases, and within 6 months in 45 cases, out of 74 (21 Lebert's, 53 Paget's). In only 8 cases was the recurrence delayed beyond 2 years. The result of Dr. Mac- farlane's experience, as stated by Dr. Walshe, is that the chances are 7 to I that extirpation either proves fatal alone, or is followed by reproduction of the disease within 12 months. The period which should be selected for the performance of extirpation is not absolutely deter- mined. The weight of general conviction, says Dr. Walshe, is in favour of early operation, and it is considered that this gives a better chance of avoiding the injurious influence of the local disease on the system. In this view the first appearance of cancer is a local morbid change. Mr. Paget remarks that, "if this opinion were true we ought to find that the average interval between removal of the disease and its recurrence bears an inverse proportion to the time of duration of the cancer liefore removal. No such proportion, liowever, exists; nor does it even appear that recurrence is on the whole later after early than after delayed operations." The evidence collected by Leroy d'Etiolles is to the same effect. Out of 801 ex- tirpations of cancer, 117 were performed in less then a year after the appearance of the tumor; out of these recurrence took place in 61 within the first year. Out of the remaining 56 in which re- currence had not taken place at the end of the year there were 62 in which the morbid growtli had, when removed, existed for 5 j'ears. Some indeed have advocated late operation, provided the disease continued limited, as affording a better chance of cure. Mr. Paget, by examination of the facts he has collected, does not obtain any proof of the correct- ness of the common opinions that cancerous disease of the communicating lymphatic glands, or adhesion of the cancerous tumor to the skin, cause an ope- ration to be followed by more speedy recurrence and fatal termination than when such is not the case. Dr. Waishe's and Mr. Liston's opinions (condemnatory) on this point are very strong. M. Velpeau thinks that the presence of diseased axillary glands in mammary cancer renders the success of extirpation extremely doubtful, but is not a formal contraindication. Dr. AValslie and Mr. Paget are both agreed as to the conclusion that the extirpation of cancer hy tiio knife cannot possitily be regarded with any reason- able hope as a final remedy for the disease. From ilic figures, however, which the former adduces lie further concludes that it is not to be expected, tliat the operation shall prolong a sufferer's existence. The latter, though scarcely questioning the correc- ness of the conclusion, and indeed as it seems adding no little to its probability by the statement that the mortality from the operation itself is, at least in hospital practice, as high as ten per cent, yet contemplates certain cases in which the risk and alarm of an operation may wisely be en- countered for the sake of the relief that may be anticipated. There are (1.) cases of acute hard cancer ; (2.) cases where, while the cachexia is not very great, the local disease is producing very dire effects; (3.) where it is not probable that the opera- tion will shorten life. He discountenances operation (I.) in chronic cancers, especially of the old ; (2.) where cachexia is intense; (3.) where there is any reasonable suspicion of internal cancer ; (4.) where the system, from any cause, is in an unfavourable condition for surgical operation. The above remarks have reference to scirrhus, but they do not require much modification to make them applicable to encephaloid. Mr. Paget thinks the operation jus- tified as a means of lengthening life, and alleviating suffering whenever the disease can be wholly re- moved, and the cachexia is not so manifest as to make it most probable that the operation will of itself prove fatal. The average duration of life in unoperated cases is something more than two years; in operated ones is something more than twenty-eight months. The difficulty of diagnosing a myeloid tumor in a bone from a medullary cancer during life is so great that, where the doubt is considerable it is better to act on the* most fa- vourable supposition, as thus a life maj' be pre- served which would otherwise be lost. In epithelial cancer Mr. Paget estimates four years as about the true average duration of life, and the effect of operations is to obtain only "a very trivial prolongation of life." Still this surgeon thinks the operation is to be advised as a general rule, " whenever the whole of the disease can be removed without great risk of life, or producing worse deformity tlian already e.^ists." His reasons are that in some rare cases a cure is effected, or a long immunity from the disease obtained; .and that the removal of the disease gives great comfort for a time in most. He does not consider the extension of the disease to the adjacent lymphatic glands as an insuperable objection to operations. In certain cases the cancerous growth by its mere presence causes such distress that an operation may be undertaken merely to procure temporary relief. A good instance of this kind is recorded by M. Velpeau, p. 483 of the Syd. Soc. translation A vast encephaloid fungus discharging a pint o nauseous sanious fluid every twenty-four hours, as well as bleeding occasionally was removed at the earnest request of the patient and her friends. It was considered by all, including M. Cruveilhier, so certain tiuit the encephaloid (microscopically exa- mined) would return that nothing else was thought of except some temporary alleviation. However, the wounds cicatrised, liealth returned, and tliere had been no reproduction of the disease for three years. It would be a great omission to close this article without citing the opinion of M. Velpeau, as to the circumstances under whicli an operation is ad- visable. His observations refer to the various kinds of mammary cancer only, but of course may apply to tlie disease in other parts. Generally, ho