DISLOCATION. 561 of the cotyloid ligament, without rupture of the liganientum teres :—In the summer of 1029 a man about forty years of age was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, for pneumonia, of which he died. On examining his body, Mr. Wormald noticed that the left lower extremity was somewhat everted, a little separated from the 1 right, and shortened to the extent of half an inch: and, on dissection, the head of the femur was found resting upon the ilium, between the aceta- bulum and the anterior inferior spine, in a cavity formed partly by a growth of bone and partly by what seemed to Mr. Wormald to be the upper portion of the original cotyloid ligament; the ace- tabulum was contracted, and filled up by a fibrous substance. The ligamentum teres was entire, elongated, and flattened. Fourteen years before the patient died, he had met with the injury of his hip by a fall from a ladder; but eventually recovered from the accident, and was able to follow the employment of carrying out beer. Mr. Wor- mald thinks it probable that a portion of the ace- tabulum had been separated, as well as the cotyloid ligament. (See Lo7id. Med. Gaz. for 1836,1837. p. 658.) [Three other examples of this slighter degree of displacement are referred to by M. Malgaigne. The reduction would probably be effected with- out much difficulty by the methods recommended for the dislocation upwards and forwards.] Of the more complete dislocation upwards, Mr. B. Travers has published the following example. It was produced by a fall into the hold of a ship. The " buttock is flattened ; the trochanter is felt rather below, and to the outer side of the anterior and superior spinous process of the ilium. The neck of the bone lies apparently between the two anterior spinous processes, so that, when the pa- tient is erect, the limb appears slung or suspended from this point. The head of the bone cannot be felt; it is invested by an abundance of bony mat- ter, &c. There is complete eversion, slight mobi- lity, and imperfect progression with the aid of a crutch." (See Med. Cldr. Trans, vol. xx. p. 113.) A similar case has been recorded by Mr. Morgan. (See Guy's Hospital Reports.) [A very perfect example of this unusual acci- dent has been published by Dr Cummins. The limb was shortened by fully three inches. The knee and toes were turned out, and any attempt to rotate the thigh inward caused exquisite pain. Abduc- tion and adduction were nearly equally difficult and painful, but flexion could to a certain extent be performed. The hip was flattened and the tro- chanter major not to be discovered. Close below the anterior superior spine of the ilium, between it and the inferior, there was a very distinct hard round tumor, which moved in unison with the movements of the thigh. The head of the bone, it was believed, lay between the anterior superior and anterior inferior spinous processes; the neck of the bone, at its junction with the head, resting on the ridge between these points, while the tro- chanter major rested upon the dorsum ilii above the acetabulum. This dislocation was reduced by extension with the pulleys in a direction down- wards and backwards. {Gufs Jlospital Reports, vol. iii.)] C'onyenilal Dislocations of the Ilip joint.—The subject of congenital, or original, dislocations of the thigh-bone was first taken up by Pal- letta (Adversaria CIdrurgica Prima; et Exer- cilaiio de Claudieaiione Congenita, Sfc, ah. Ed. Sandifort, edit. 8vo. Lugd. 1788.) Delpech after- wards made some observations upon it {De VOrtJio- morplde, ^a. 2 tomes, 8vo. 1828); but the most important article yet extant on congenital or original dislocations of the hip, is that by the celebrated Dupuytren. (See Repertoire Gen. d'Aiiat. t. ii.; [also Clin. CIdr. t. iii. art. 8.) Cruveilhier has given the engraving of a skeleton in which, amongst other peculiarities, is exhibited a congenital displacement of the thigh-bones. {Anat. Pathol, livr. ii. pi. 2.) The case consists in a displacement of the head of the femur from the^acetabidura to the dorsum of the ilium, existing from birth, and appearing to be the result of a want of depth, or of the incomplete formation of the acetabulum, rather than of any accident or disease. The displacement would appear some- times to prevail in certain families. (See Clin. Chir. t. iii. p. 216.) According to Dupuytren, the characters of this dislocation are; a shortening of the limb; an ascent of the head of the bone upon the external fossa of the ilium; a projection of the great trochanter; a retraction of almost all the muscles of the upper part of the thigh towards the crista of the ilium, where they form round the head of the femur a kind of cone, the base of which is in the os ilium, and the apex at the great trochanter. The tuberosity of the ischium, quitted by these muscles, is nearly uncovered. The limb is rotated inwards, and consequently the heel and ham are turned outwards, and the knee and toes inwards. The position of the thigh is oblique from above downwards, and from without inwards; which obliquity is greater, the older the individual is, and the wider the pelvis. Hence, there is a tendency in the thigh-bones to cross one another below. There is a meagreness of the limb, and especially of its upper part, out of all proportion to the trunk and upper extremities. The separate movements of limbs, with this conformation, are generally very limited, and, in particular, those of .ibduction and rotation. As the patient is standing still, one is struck with the want of proportion between the upper and lower parts of his body, with the imperfection of his lower limbs, and the attitude which he as- sumes. The trunk is fully developed, while the lower extremities are short and slender, as if they belonged to another person. This appearance of the lower limbs is rendered still more conspicuous by the breadth of the pelvis. One is also struck with the projection of the great trochanters. The upper part of the trunk inclines a good way back, while the lumbar portion of the spine advances far forwards, and is very much excavated behind. The pelvis is placed almost horizontally on the thigh-bones; and the ground is only touched with the point of the foot. It appears from Dupuytren'a observation, that a person, with congenital dis- location of the liips, runs and jumps with less difficulty than he walks. When he is placed upon his back, the signs of the m.ilformation dimi- nish, and are nearly effaced ; because in this pos- ture of repose the muscles no longer draw the tiiigh-bones upwards, and the weight of the upper parts of the body ceases to press the pelvis down between the heads of those bones. In this pos- ture the limbs may be lengthened or shortened 0 0