'^^'^ FRACTURE copious deposit of bone in the neighbourhood of the fracture. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxi. p. 107.] _ In some well marked cases of fracture of the os winorainatum, extending into the acetabulum, Mr. Earle found that the symptoms nearly resembled those of fracture of the neck of the femur. Thus, in one example of fracture of the acetabulum in two directions, with an extensive comminuted fracture of the ilium, with some displacemeut, and a fracture of the os pubis in three places, the patient " had lost all control over the left lower extremity, and could not raise it from the bed. There was no visible shortening of the limb, but the foot was everted. Any attempt to rotate the limb caused great pain, and was accompanied with a very sensible crepitus when the hand was applied over the hip-joint." The trochanter on the injured side xvas not nearly so prominent as on the sound one, and almost on a level with the anterior supe nor spinous process of the ilium. The patient recovered from these severe injuries, and after a time died of disease in the chest. The reparation of the fractures was complete. [In a second case symptoms were observed as nearly as possible similar to the above. Both re- sembled fracture of the neck of the femur in the loss of power over the limb, the eversion and crepr tus, but differed from it in the absence of shorten- ing and in the freedom of motion, especially of abduction, which is always attended with severe pain in fracture of the neck of the femur. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xix. p. 249.)] In University College Museum is a preparation also exemplifying a recovery from an equally severe fracture of the pelvis, implicating the ilium, ramus of the left ischium, and the sacrum. The fractures are all united. In this instance also the loss of prominence of the trochanter, and the free- dom of motion of the joint, particularly of abduc- tion, were the most marked symptoms. [Another instance of this kind, which also sur- vived several years, was observed by M. Morel- LavalWe. This case was treated for fractured neck of the femur, but after death it was found that the acetabulum had been fractured, and that the head of the thigh bone had sunk more than an inch into the pelvis. The fracture was irregularly consolidated. (See Malgaigne, Traite des Frac lures, vol. ii. p. 881.) The margin of the acetabulum is sometimes broken ofi', usually at the upper or posterior part, and if the detached portion be sufficiently large, it reduction the displacement will recur; all of which circumstances happen equally in fracture of the neck of the femur. Two cases related by Dr' M Tyer were mistaken for fractured neck of the emur, a third case was considered to be a disloca tion on account of the difficulty met with in the nected wzth the Hip-Joiut; Glasgoio Med. Journ. •No. xiii.) Such cases aa these require the greatest circum- spection to distinguish them with certainty if the surgeon can succeed in feeling the head of the bone in Its new situation, all doubt will be removed otherwise the means for arriving at a correct diag- nosis are very insufficient. In the treatment the principal indication is to maintain the reduction of the dislocation while union of the fracture is going on. M. Maison- neuve succeeded in doing so by keeping the limb in a position of extreme abduction, in order to throw the head of the femur against the bottom of the acetabulum, and to prevent it from acting upon the detaclied fragment of bone. This plan might therefore be tried, but should it prove insufficient permanent extension of the limb according to the method used in fractures of the thigh should be resorted to.] Fractures of the Femur, [Fractures of the femur, like those of the hu- jmerus, will require to be subdivided into —1 Fractures of the upper extremity or neck. 2. Fractures of the shaft. 3. Fractures of the lower extremity or condyles.] 1. Fractures of tlx Neck of the Femur. As this is a subject which has excited con- siderable discussion, the reader cannot be too particular in noticing that three distinct kinds of fracture, very different in their nature, treat- ment, and result, were formerly confounded toee- ther under the name of "fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone;" for much of the dispute that has prevailed whether these fractures will unite likc^ those of other bones, seems to have proceeded from the three species of fracture not having been properly discriminated. Two of the cases unite by means of callus, like other fractures; but the other, as it usually occurs, is conceived by some surgeons not to admit of a similar mode of union; or, at all events, they declare that such a termination is very difficult to procure. Sir A. Cooper has, therefore, divided these cases, first' _ I-""-" »-""w^..»v ""a-^j'^""pei uiererore, aiviaea these cases, first. may permit a partial dislocation of the head of the into fractures tvhich happen through the tieck of the temur. Some of the cases of this kind which ha.ve\ bone, entirely within the capsu/ar ligament; beinir been noticed have been in fact dislocations of the hip, complicated with a fracture of the acetabulum; in others, however, the dislocation seems to have been subordinate to, and consequent upon, the fracture, as the ligamentum teres has been found entire. This was the case in one instance recorded by Dr. M'Tj'er, and another somewhat similar by Mr. Wormald, has been already alluded to. (See Dislocations.) The symptoms will be somewhat perplexing. They will resemble for the most part tnose of dislocation, either on the dorsum ilii or into the sciatic notch, according as it is the upper rrok'."/T"?'''T' acetabulum which is Sn "loreorle.s ^■1' bo accomplished without difficulty, but after the examples in which a union by bone had not, some years ago, presented itself to his notice: se- condly, into fractures through the neck of the bone at its junction with the trochanter major, which frac- ttires are of course external to the capsular ligameni; thirdly, mio fractures through the trochanter major, beyond its junction with the neck of the bone, {On Dislocations, f/'c. p. 114—116.) [Sir A. Cooper has also described a fracture of the tro- chanter major, by which this process is broken off from the rest of the bone, without any further fracture of the neck or shaft.] Fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone are ..^finitely more frequent than dislocations at the hip, and mny arise from a fall, either upon the great trochiuiter, the sole of the foot, or the knee.