example of the nurse who repeatedly kissed a child without the least ill effect, while it was dying of rabies, as recorded hy Dr. J. Vaughan, has already been noticed. However, if hydrophobia were ap- parently to arise in any rare instance from the application of the slaver of a rabid animal to the inside of the lips, no positive inference could be drawn from the fiict, unless the means were also possessed of ascertaining tiiat there were no slight abrasions about the gums, or within the mouth previously to such application. [Out of upwards of 400 cases in the collections of Hamilton, Smith, Netten Radcliffe, Wagner, and Adam, it will be found that the disease is, with very few and rare exceptions, due to a bite. In one case {Hutchinson, La>ice/,T)^c. 1838.) the dog barked so furiously against its mistress' mouth as to loosen a tooth. In another (iV. P". Med. Beport, vol. i.) the dog was allowed, the day before it became rabid, to lick a sore on the ear, and hydrophobia, after an' incubation of four weeks, began in this patient, by a pricking pain in that organ. A third person had been licked on a wound. {S!(/(/. Tetanus Trau- mat. et Hi/drophoLia, Inmig. Diss. Zurich, 1855.) A fourth was said only to have been licked on the naked foot. This case appears to be highly doubt- ful, although Neumann puts credence in it. Finally, in a fifth case, a lady allowed her dog to lick her nose.] For the hydrophobic virus to take effect, therefore, it is generally, probably always, necessary that the infectious saliva be either applied to an abraded, wounded, or ulcerated surface. In the case of a bite, the teeth are the envenomed weapons which at once cause the solution of continuity, and deposit the infection in the part. But the mere abrasion of thecuticle, and the application of the infectious saliva to the denuded cutis, will often suffice for the future production of the disease. As the mode of com- munication, therefore, is a true inoculation, it follows that the danger must depend very much upon the qiiantity of infectious matter conveyed into, or ap- plied to the part, the effectual manner in which the saliva is lodged in the flesh, the extent and num- ber of the wounds, and particularly the circumstance of the teeth of the rabid animal having passed through no clothes, by which the saliva might possibly be effectually prevented from entering the wound at all. Hence, bites on the hands and face are known to be of the most dangerous description, especially those on the face, the hands being some- times protected with gloves. [Of the series of re- corded cases of hydrophobia above alluded to, in 62 cases the part bitten is not stated ; 141 persons were bitten on the most various parts of the upper extremities, 70 on the lower, 50 on the head and face, 12 on the head and trunk, and 2 on the scrotum. This, it may be observed, does not accord with Hunter's opinion, that only wounds of parts which are rich in nerves are likely to be followed by hydrophobia.] From what has been observed, however, it is not to be concluded that the disease always follows, even when the animal which inflicts the bite i.s decidedly rabid, and some of its saliva is actually applied to the wounded or abraded parts. On the contrary, experience fully proves that out of the great number of individuals often bitten by the same mad dog,and to whom no effectual prophylactic measure is extended, only a greater or lesser num- ber are afterwards attacked with hydrophobia. [Out HYDROPHOBIA. losfi ' of 339 persons bitten by mad dogs, about 65 per cent, are stated to have died of hydropho- bia.] When this difference in the fate of the indi- viduals cannot be explained by the intervention of their clothes, the thickness of the cuticle at the injured part, the small size and superficial nature of the bite, the ablution of the part, or some other mode in which any actual inoculation may have been rendered ineffectual, it can only be referred to some unknown peculiarities or differences in the constitutions of the several individuals. The latter conjecture seems more probable when the fact is re- collected that some animals are more susceptible of rabies than others, and some appear to resist the infection altogether. Dogs are more susceptible of the infection than the human species. Four men and twelve dogs were bitten by the same mad dog, and every one of the dogs died of the disease, while all the four men escaped, though they used no other m.eans of prevention but such as we see every day fail. There is also an instance of twenty persons being bitten by the same mad dog,' of whom only one had the disease, [The period of incubation, or space of time elapsing between the receipt of the bite and the appearance of the symptoms of hydrophobia, varies greatly. In 222 cases in which it has been observed, the outbreak occurred 11 times before the 10th day, 21 times between 10 and 20 days, 20 times from 3 weeks to b" weeks, 89 times from 7 weeks to 7 months, 89 times, also, from 7 months to 27 months, once after 4 years, and once after 5|- years. In Hamilton's table, it occurred in 17 cases between 18 and 30 days, in 63 cases between 30 and 60 daj^s, in 13 cases between 3 and 6 months, in 17 between 6 and 12 months, and in 4 from 10 up to 20 months, after the receipt of the bite. In both these series it will be observed that the period of incubation was most frequently be- tween the 3rd and 8th week. The two cases of highly-prolonged incubation may be thought sus- picious. That of 4 years is described by Dr, Wendenburg (Cojt, Blatt. des Ver. der Aerate in Reg. Bez. Merseburg, Sept. 1856),and it was so well marked a case that it cannot well admit of dig- belief. That of 5 years is related by Breva, and would seem to rest upon a good basis. On the 11 th of November, 1804, a wolf having descended from the Bergamasco Alps, attacked and bit successively 13 persons of different age and sex. Of these 9 were attacked with hydrophobia which proved fatal, and 4 escaped. One case was developed, and proved fatal after a period of ten months; another the ninth, after a period five years and a half. {British and Foreign Med. and Surg. Review vol' iv, pp, 344—49.)] ' ■ Dr. Bardsley, of Manchester, has recorded a case in which the most careful inquiries tended to prove that the.patient had never suftered the least injury from any animal, except the bite inllicted 12 years previously to the commencement of hydio- phobia, by a dog apparently mad. {Mem. of Liter and Phil. Society of Manchester, vol, iv. part ii p. 431,) . ^ • A merchant of Montpellior is also stated to have been attacked with hydrophobia 10 years alter the bite of a rabid dog, which also bit the patient's brother, who died hydrophobic on the 4 0tli day after the accident, (See Diet, des Sciences Mid. t. xlvii. p. 75,) Here may also be found references