HEAD, INJUR lES OF THE. C91 this, unless urgent symptoms of pressure demand tlie minutest exuminiUion. We have, however, seen it requisite in cases of pressure from hemorrhage arising from a laceration of the spinous artery. Fracture of the base of the skull. — It may be said that in the detection of fractures of the vault we must be guided by the senses of sight and touch combined. This cannot be said of fractures of the base. Are there any patho- gnomonic signs of fractured base of the skull .= Here, of course, all manipulation generally is out of the question, and ocular inspection can only be applied to the result of the fracture, as in cases of extensive ecchymosis, and not to the frac- ture itself. Physiological considerations are not wholly irrelevant in suspected fractures of the base. Thus stupor, loss of the sense of smell, amaurosis, deafness of one ear and paralysis of the corresponding facial nerve, paralysis of the muscles of deglutition, with aphonia, may be enumerated as probable signs of fractured base when they succeed severe injury to the head, accompanied by violent commotion of the brain. Nevertheless, although affording strong presumptive evidence of fractured base, they may all depend on the damage done to the brain without fracture. But there are external signs, some of which point unmistakably to fractured base as a cause, whilst others are of too doubtful a character to be relied on. Amongst the latter may be mentioned ecchymoses about the orbit, and htemorrhage from the nose, mouth, and ears. As to haimorrhage from the ear, it is so common in severe injuries of the skull that generally no very great importance is attached to it, unless it is of great extent and continues for a long time. The source of the hasmorrhage is various: thus it may arise from a rupture of the vessels of the meatus, or from laceration of the membrana tympani; or the blood may escape from a divided lateral sinus, or even from a rupture of the carotid arterj' itself. The latter can happen only in extensive fracture of the petrous portion of the temporal bone attended with a rupture of the membrana tympani. The source of the hc'emorrhage would be at once apparent from the rapidity of the flow and the colour of the blood. Mr. Hewett has found in thirty-two cases of fracture of the middle fossa in which the petrous bone was implicated, that the membrana tympani was rup- tured in fifteen. The (low of blood in most of these cases was profuse and continuous : in all the diagnosis was clear. In reference to the ha;mo- rrhage from the nose and mouth, the same surgeon remarks, that where the bleeding is copious, and continues for any length of time, the symptom may become of great value. Vomiting of blood also occurs occasionally in such cases. Thus Hewett says that bleeding occurred from the nose and mouth, or by subsequent vomiting, in fourteen cases out of thirty-two of fractured base; in four the fracture was confined to the ethmoid bono, in three to the body of the sphenoid, and in one to the basilar process : in five cases the fracture involved both the ethmoid and sphenoid. We do not attach much importance to the ecchymosis in the orbits as a sign of fractured base, hav- ing so often witnessed it in ordinary cases of injury to the skull where there could be no suspicion of such an accident. It is said that in fractured base the ecchymosis takes pl.ice first in the lower part of the orbit; but there can bo little doubt that if fracture of the orbital plate of the frontal bone occurred, the upper part of the orbit would be the first infiltrated. The infiltration is said also to commence from behind, and gradually to make its way forward. In some cases it distends the ocular conjunctiva, and protrudes the eye to such an extent as to in- duce amaurosis from the pressure on the nerves around the eye. This occurs generally in those most fatal punctured fractures of the orbital plate of the frontal bone, and may be the only sym- ptom present at first to lead us to a suspicion of such a serious accident. Nevertheless, in cases where no suspicion of such an occurrence could arise, it is not altogether to be lost sight of, espe- cially if taken in connection with other signs. The same remark applies to extensive effusions of blood occurring after injuries to the skull about the occipital and upper cervical regions, when attended by unusual violence, and when symptoms of deep cerebral injury persist. In a very interesting paper on the subject of injuries to the nervous system iGitfs Hospital Reports, third series, vol. v. for 1859, p. 58), Mr. Bryant states, as the result of hia examination of thirty cases of fractured base, " that twelve cases, associated with concufssion, recovered. la three the fracture extended, through the orbit, as indicated by subconjunctival ecchymosis. In eight examples there was hcemorrhage from the ears: in all this was followed by a discharge of serum, in seven cases associated with facial paralysis of the same side. In these cases it is quite fair to con- clude that the line of fracture extended through the petrous portion of the temporal bone. In two instances there teas bleeding from the nose. In one case there was a serous discharge from the ear, accompanied with paralysis of the facial nerve, and in one following haemorrhage from the ear, but unaccompanied with paralysis." He further remarks: " To test the value of these different symptoms, as indicating fracture of the base in various positions, the following analysis of the fatal cases will prove of value; and, taking the symptoms separately, subconjunctival hajmo- rrhage will first claim our attention, as being a symptom tolerably accurately marking a fracture through the orbital plate. In the eighteen fatal cases this symptom was manifested in four in- stances, and in all the line of fracture extended through the orbit. In two cases there was copious hremorrhage from the ear; in both these the frac- ture passed through the petrous bone. In three examples there was some cpistaxis : in one of these the fracture extended across the ethmoid bone - in one the frontal sinus was full of blood, and frac- tured; and in the third the tympanum was found full of blood, and the membrana tympani perfect and upon examination the lateral sinus was found to have been lacerated. Seven of the eighteen fatal cases died of direct injury to the brain as contusion or laceration of the brain substance, with effusion of blood upon the surface of the brain or its membranes. Another seven died from arach- nitis as the result of the injury. In three the cerebral mischief was complicated with other in- jury, and in one instance hicmorrha^e was the immediate cause of death." Wc arc sceptical, nevertheless, of the true naturn of the successful cases in this category, and wc think that ecchymosis