3 z 3 tinge of red, and of an alkaline reaction. Such blood 13 extremely prone to the formation of a firm, i tough, buIFy or pseudo-membranareons coat, in which the fibrous network is very distinct; this coat being intimately comiected with the substratum of the clot, and often containing a large number of co- lourless corpuscles in its meshes. That a buffy coat is formed in blood possessed of very various qualities, and in different, and even opposite states of the system, has been stated in a former article (see Blood, Pathology of). The explanation at present admitted of its forma- tion in hyperinosis is as follows :—The blood preserves its perfect fluidity long enough to permit the red corpuscles, by virtue of their gravity, and before coagulation commences, to subside partially in the liquor sanguinis; after which, the clot, con- sisting of an upper portion, composed of fibrine and white corpuscles, and a lower portion into which the red corpuscles have descended, forms. The process is promoted by the tendency of the red corpuscles to arrange themselves in columns, like rolls of coin, the resistance of the plasma to their downward passage being thereby diminished; and also by the specific gravity of the corpuscles. The coagulum becoming concave in the centre, and raised and puckered at the edges, is said to be cupped, a result of the large quantity of highly con- tractile fibrine which it contains; the contraction commencing as the blood cools, and continuing for some days. The clot, in well-marked cases, is very loose at the bottom, owing to the excess of red corpuscles collected there, each of which must have supplanted its bulk of fibrine; but excepting so far as produced by this cause, there exists no more fibrine in one part than in another. The buffy coat has been a subject of controversy in all ages. It is occasionally absent even in inflamed blood, since the process by which it is formed may be interfered with by many agencies, after, or during the time the fluid is being drawn from the vessels. It maybe produced, also, during circulation in the vessels, in blood which has its normal quantity o fibrine, or even in blood which has less than its normal quantity, and none of the characteristics of inflamed blood; hence, it cannot bo regarded as a certain sign of hyperinosis; but the well marked buffy coat indicates more clearly than anything else, that the molecular activity of th circulating blood has been increased, and although occasionally absent, it is unquestionably the most characteristic circumstance in an inflammation of the blood. The increased viscidity, which accompanies th increase of fibrine, has been frequently insisted upon in explanation of symptoms, and as a cause of the sequelffi of general inflammatory action, and as frequently denied. This quality was for a long time rejected, on the authority of CuUen, but we find more modern observers reverting to it. Dr. Carswell remarks, that various degrees of fluidity of blood occur, from a watery thinness to a state of inspissation approaching to coagulation. Tl consistence depends principally on the fibrine, tin varies with the quantity and quality of this con stiluent, " since coagulation is no other tlian th solidification of fibrine, and heemorrhage render the blood thin, chiefly in consequence of the re- moval of filniiic." A certain degree of viscidity is indispensable for free circulation, and there are numerous facts and experiments which show HYPERINOSIS. 1077 that, whether the blood loses its natural viscidity, becomes inordinately viscid, its passage through the capillary system may thereby bo prevented. This increased viscidity is the " inflammatory spis- situde," which Boerhaave laid down as a predis- posing cause, of a pleurisy, for instance. More frequent morbid results would attend it but for counteracting agencies; as the increased temperature of the blood; the increased force of the circulation; and, probably, an increase in the proportion of the alkaline salts. The co-existence of an excess of fibnne and a deficiency of corpuscles has been so frequently ob- served, and it has been so often found that the two conditions bear a proportion to each other, as to lead to the inference, that the fibrine is produced by the disintegration of the corpuscles; but whether so or not, the rapid loss of red corpuscles which takes place during the continuance of inflammatory action in the blood, is a sure proof of the destructive activity of the molecular changes. The fibrine ( " coagulable lymph " ) coagulating more slowly than natural, and at the same time becoming firmer when coagulated, led John Hunter to observe that inflamed blood possesses the living principle in a greater degree than usual. Wharton Jones makes the remark that the aggregation of the corpuscles shows " an exaltation of their natural attraction." Hyperinosis may be produced artificially by the inhalation of oxygen gas. Dr. Gairdner, who be- lieves, with Mulder and Simon, that " by means of respiration the amorphous albumen of the blood is raised into the plastic fibrine," and that " oxy- genation and fibrillation are identical," proved experimentally that the fibrine of the blood is in- creased in quantity by making an animal, while at est, breathe a very highly oxygenated atmosphere, {0?i Gout, edit. 4, p. 200.) Dr. Richardson's experiments confirm this fact, and the_ train of symptoms attending a hyperinotic condition, thus produced, corresponds with the diseased condi- tion arising from other causes. {On the Coa- gulation of the Blood, p. 70.) Among the most frequent causes are those by which the respira- tory function is inordinately excited; but their modus operandi cannot be understood without adverting to the physiology of the blood. Dr. Gairdner examined the blood of a horse before and after sharp exercise, and found that the quantity of fibrine had undergone no change. This gentleman, in allusion to this experiment, remarks : '' It is quite evident that whatever increase of fibrine may take place in the arterial side of the heart, the blood must, in a state of health, return to its or- dinary standard in the veins, otherwise, the bal- ance of the system would soon be overturned, and fever be engendered." This latter result is pre- vented by the general ollects of the exercise, the active metamorphosis of the muscles, and the in- creased function of the skin especially. Neverthe- less, the respiration of cold, sharp, or highly oxy- genised, or very hot air, where the compensating processes are not brought adequately into plaj', will produce an inflammation of the blood. The action of powerful irritants received into the blood, sonic one or more of the secreting organs being at tlie time in an abnormal condition, and the sudden and intense impression of cold on tile surface, under similar circumstances, arc also frequent causes. When an inflamed condition is set up by such causes, one of its earliest cilccts is a more or less