801 GRANULATIONS. seldom that the anus or rectum becomes affected with gonorrhoeal inflammation. Condylomata, accompanied by discharge, are not unfrequently observed in the neighbourhood of the anus both in male and female, but as a symptom of se- condary syphilis and not of gonorrhoea. Inflam- mation and discharge arising from gonorrhoeal infection in these parts only, must, I repeat, be considered of rare occurrence. When present and affecting the submucous tissue and skin at the verge of the anus, it resembles in appearance balanitis in the male or vulvitis in the female, beini; characterised by increased redness, and tumefaction of the parts aftected, accompanied by excoriations and superficial ulcerations. When the external parts are alone implicated, local treat- ment by lead or other astringent lotions constantly applied, will speedily effect a cure. The disease, however, has been known to extend to the mucous lining of the rectum, giving rise to pain and a sensation of weight about the perineeum and anus, to tenesmus and painful defeeeation, and a discharge of purulent matter from the rectum escaping by occasional jets rather than by a continual oozing. It must be borne in mind that both these affections occur as complications of and in association with gonorrhoea, occupying the more usual sites of the disease, the treatment of which must proceed simultaneously with that required for tlie rectum. The application of the nitrate of silver or of the sulphate of copper directly to the inflamed mucous surface of the rectum is the most efficacious plan of treatment after the inflammatory symptoms have been combated by the ordinary soothing and anti- phlogistic remedies. Injections, if had recourse to, should be small in quantity, and the same as those recommended for vaginitis. Soothing injections of starch and opium will give relief in the first instance, while the inflammatory symptoms and those of excessive irritation exist. When these have subsided, those of an astringent character should be substituted. The strength of the injections may be from one to two grains to the ounce of water of any of the metallic salts already mentioned, and as they should be retained, not more than two ounces in quantity should be used at a time, or some of the vegetable astringents may be preferred.] J. Andrie, On the Theory and Cure of the Venereal Gonorrhoea, and tlie Diseases wliich happen in con- sequence of that Disorder, 8vo. Lend. 1777. .T.NcvUl, A Description of the Venereal Gonorrhoeii, 8vo. Lond. 1754. ./. Vluhbe, An Essay on the Gonorrhoea Virulenta, in whicli the different Opinions respectinff the 'I reatmcnt of the Disease nre cni efuliy examined, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1786. VV. Thomas, An lissayon Go- norrhoea, with some Obs. on the Use of Opium, 8vo. Lond. 1780. John Hunter, A Treatise on the Vene- real Disease, 4to. 1788. W. llotflei/. The most coffent Reasons ivhy Astrinfrent Injections, &c,. should be banished, &c. 8vo. I.ond. 1800. J. //. G. Hchteget, Versnch einer Geschiohte dcs Strcites iiber die Identit'at des Venus und Trippergiftes. 12mo. Jcnu;, 1796. Whatebi, On the Gonorrhoea Virnlcntn, 8vo. Lond. 1801. Pract. Obs. on Venereal Complaints, by F. fiwedirno; M.D., ed. 3. An Inquiry into some of the KITccts of the Venereal I'oison, by <S. Hawrei/, 1802. Obs. on Morbid Poisons, by ./. Adams. M.D., edit. 2. 1807. /. C.Jacobs, Demonstration de I'lden- tite des Virus de V^role et de la Gonorrhee, 8vo. Bruxelles, 1811. J. F. Ilermandcz, Kssai Analvtique sur la Nonidentite des Virus Gonorrhoiqne et Syphi- litique, 8vo. Toulon, 1812. R. Carmichacl, Essays on the Venereal Diseases whirli have been cnnfoun<led with Syphilis, &c. 4to. Lond. 1814; and his Obs. on the Symptoms and Specific Distinctions of Vene- real Diseases, 8vo. Lond. 1818. John Hnwship, On Complaints aiTecting the Secretion and Excretion of the Urine, 8vo. Lond. 1823. MM. CuUerier et Ratier, in Diet, de M^d. et de Chir. Pratiques, art. Blennorrhagie. W. Wallace, On the Venereal Dis- ease and its Varieties, chap. vi. 8vo. Lond. 1833. [Z?. Johnson, On Diseases of the Genito-urinary Organs, Lond. 1851. Ph. Ricord, TraXii Complet des Mai. Ven^r., 4to. Paris, 1851. Vidal, On Venereal Diseases, translated by Blackman, 1854. Nelalon, El^m. de Pathol. Chir. 1857. Re'quin, El^m. de Pathol. M^dicale, 1843. Acton, Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Urinary Organs, 3rd ed. 1860.J GORGET. An instrument used in the opera- tion of lithotomy, for the purpose of cutting the prostate gland and neck of the bladder, so as to enable the operator to introduce the forceps and extract the stone. It is, in fact, a sort of knife, at the end of which is a beak, that fits the groove of the staff, and admits of being pushed along it into the bladder. Besides cutting gorgets, constructed for the preceding design, there are also blunt ones, intended to be introduced into the wound, their concavity then serving as a guide for the forceps into the bladder. GRANULATIONS. The little conical emi- nences which form on the surfaces of ulcers and suppurating wounds, and serve for filling up the cavities, and bringing nearer together and uniting the margins of ulcers and wounds, healing by wliat is termed the second mte?ition. They receive their name from their granular appearance. [Before the time of Hunter, the observation of surgeons led them to believe that unclosed woundi and ulcers were the seat of several successive pro- cesses, each capable of being hastened or improved by art;—these were digestion, cleansing, incar- ning, and cicatrising. Medicaments intended to promote the first process, usually of the turpentine sort, were called digestives, a name which survives to this day as an appellation for stimulating oint- ments. Digestion consists apparently in those processes which precede suppuration. Cleansing, or mundification, consists in the throwing off any films of imperfect fibrinous matter which may have adhered to the wound, and the remedies supposed to promote it, usually metallic solutions, as the oxymel seruginis, were called detersives. Incar- ning corresponds with granulating, and was wont to be promoted by sarcotics, of which myrrh, aloes, and sarcocolla were the most famous. Cicatrisation was promoted by epulotics. {Turticr''s Art of Surc/ery, vol. i. 1732.) Hunter, whose observa- tions of matter of fact are above all praise, gives the following history of the origin and growth of granulations.] "I have often (says Mr. Hunter) been able to trace the growth and vascularity of this new substance. I have seen upon a sore a white substance exactly similar, in every visible respect, to coagulaliiig lymph. I have not at- tempted to wipe it off. and the next day of dress- ing, I have found this very substance vascular; for, by wiping, or touching it with a probe, it has bled freely. I have observed the same appearanco ou the surface of a bone that has been laid bare. I once scraped oft' some of the external surface of a bone of the foot, to see if the surface would granulate. I remarked, tlie following da)', that the surface of the bone was covered with a whitish substance, having a tinge of blue. When I passed my probe into it, I did not feel the bone bare, but only its resistance. I conceived this substance to bo coagulable lymph, thrown out from inflamma- tion, and that it would be forced off when suppu- 3 F