530 DISLOCATION. bandaged close to the side, and eupported in a sling. Sir Astley Cooper recomraends a cushion to be put into the axilla, and a stellate band- age and sling to be applied. (0« Dislocations, p. 432.) After the reduction of a dislocation downward, the facility of a fresh displacement is said to depend very much upon the extent to which the tendon of the subscapularis muscle has been lacerated. {Sir A. Cooper s Surgical Essays, part i. p. 7.) The swelling about the joint, brouglit on by the accident, usually disappears without trouble. Pott and Sir Astley Cooper are of opinion, that the narrowness of the opening in the capsular ligament can never create any impediment to the reduction. But Desault and Hey {Pract. Ohs. p. 301, ed. 2), entertained the opposite opinion; and hence the former was an advocate for moving the head of the bone about very freely, with the view of lacerating the capsule more extensively. Messrs. Logan and Hey, of Leeds, sometimes succeeded with slight extension, and gentle motion of the bone in various directions. This practice answered in several cases, where the head of the humerus had passed far under the pectoral muscle. {See Hei/'s Surgci-y, p. 311, ed. 2.) Mr. C. White, of Manchester, also believed that the reduction was sometimes prevented by the head of the bone not being able to get through the laceration in the capsule again. He succeeded in reducing some cases, which he supposed to bo of this nature, in the following manner:—Having screwed an iron ring into a beam at the top of tlie patient's room, he fixed one end of the pulleys to it, and fastened the other to the dislocated arm by ligatures attached to the wrist, placing the arm in an erect position. In this way, he drew up the patient, till his whole body was suspended ; but, that too much force might not be sustained by the wrist, Mr. White at the same time directed two other persons to support the arm above the elbow. He now used to try with his hands to conduct the arm into its place, if the reduction had not already happened, as was sometimes the case. Occasionally a snap might be heard, as soon as the patient was drawn up ; but the reduction could not be com- pleted till he was let down gain, and a trial made with the heel in the armpit. When no iron ring was at hand, Mr. White used to have the patient raised from the ground by three or four men, who stood upon a table. {Cases in Surgery, p. 95.) There can be little doubt, that the success of Mr. White's plan was not owing to its action on the opening in the capsule, but depended upon another principle, first explained by Sir Astley Cooper, and mentioned by him in italics, that it may receive due attention. Mr. Crampton takes a similar view :—" If it be true (says he) that, in some cases, the supraspinatus muscle, retaining its connection with the greater tubercle, is the cause of the resistance to the extending power (Sir A. Cooper on Dislocations, p. 377), it is obvious, that this resistance can be best overcome by raising the arm, and thus relaxing the opposing muscle. The success, which not unfrequently attends the method of reduction first recommended by Mr. White, of Manchester, by drawing the arm directly upwards, in a lino parallel to tlie axis of the trunk, is no dotihl to ho atlrihulcd to the 'rda,ration wliicll it ciffcts o/7/ee snprasjnnalus and deltoid muscle. It 18 probable also, tliat, intiiispositionof tiioliumerus, the head of the bone is in some measure unlocked from tlic nock of tlie scapula, against which it is, when dislocated downwards, strongly compressed by the contraction of the muscles." {Crampton in Dublin Jour, of Med. Science, vol. iii. p. 181.) Mr. Hey, also, sometimes adopted Vvhite's method for old dislocations, especially those under the pectoral muscle. The usefulness of raising the arm to lessen the pressure of the edge of the glenoid cavity against the neck of the humerus is likewise particularly pointed out by him. {Pract. Obs. on Surgery,^, 299, ed. 2.) According to Mr. Cramp- ton, the practice was at one time common in Steevens'Hospital,asthe large ring in the cross-beam of the ante-room testifies. In relation to the merit of the first introduction of this plan, Mr. Crampton justly assigns it to Mr. C. White :—" The British surgeon (he observes) will be a little surprised to find this method introduced as a new and important mode of reduction in the Hotel-Dieu. M. Mal- gaigne, the gentleman who introduced the practice to the notice of Dupuytren, stated that the anatomy and pathology of this kind of dislocation had led him to adopt this method, before he was acquainted with the method of Mothe (White ?) The method of Mothe, as stated by M. Malgaigne,' consists in making extension, the arm being lifted up forcibly, and consequently shortened, instead of extending the limb in a depressed, or elongated position.' {Crampton in Dublin Jour, of Med. Science, vol. iii. p. 182.) M. Mothe's memoir was presented to the Academy of Surgery in 1785. Mr. White's paper was printed in 1764, It is but justice to M. Mal- gaigne to mention, that Mr. Crampton has here supposed that Mr. White's first suggestion of the practice has not been admitted bj-^ M. Malgaigne. On the contrary, he states, that the anatomy and pathology of the shoulder-joint led him to adopt the practice, before he had become acquainted with White's observations, who had formerly resorted to it, though only in old dislocations. (See Gaz. Med.de Paris, Sept. 1832. He only proposed it also as " une metJwdc iniisiiee en France.'" (See Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. iii. p. 86.) I am glad to have had this opportunity of doing justice to M. Malgaigne,whose observations on many parts of sur- gery reflect the highest honour upon him : and even on this subject he conies off with reputation ; for, though it was Mr. Charles White that first adopted the practice, it was Sir Astley Cooper, and M, Malgaigne, who first gave a scientific descrip- tion of the principles on which its efficiency de- pends. [In his last work on dislocations, M. Malgaigne does not approve of so great an elevation of the arm as was recommended by White and Mothe ; on the contraiy,ho thinks that this exaggerated eleva- tion occasions a triple inconvenience, because, 1st, it stretches beyond measure the pectoralis major, teres major, and latissimus dorsi muscles ; 2nd, it brings the neck of tlie humerus in contact with tlie acromion, friction against which constitutes an ad- ditional obstacle ; 3rd, it applies the long portion of the triceps against the glenoid cavity, which is thus closed against the head of the humerus. Accord- ing to him, it is sufficient to elevate it until its axis is nearly parallel to the axis of the glenoid cavity ; which axis corresponds nearly with a line drawn from the centre of the cavity to the middle ol the triangular surfiu'e which terminates tlie spine ol the scapula. The elbow should bo carried slightly W.-- nards at the same time that thearm is elevated. In this attitude, the deltoid, biceps, coraco-brachialis, supra-and infra-spinati, subscapularis, and triceps