5ii DISLOCATION the most frequent, is facilitated by' the direction of the convex articular surfaces of the scaphoid, lunar, and cuneiform bones, which slope more backwards than forwards. According to Sir Astley Cooper, the direction of the force determines the direction in which the carpal bones are thrown: thus, if a person, in falling, put out his hand to save himself, and fall upon the palm, a dislocation may happen, the radius and ulna being forced forwards upon the annular ligament, and the carpal bones thrown backwards. A considerable swelling is produced by the radius and ulna on the fore part of the wrist, and a similar protuberance upon the back of the wrist by the carpus, with a depression above it, and tlie hand is bent back. When the carpal bones are dislocated forwards under the flexor tendons, and the radius and ulna backwards upon the posterior part of the carpus, the accident has been caused by a fall on the back of the hand. In each of these cases, two swellings are produced; one by the radius and ulna; the other by the bones of the carpus. Sprains will often cause a great swelling over the flexor tendons, and give rise to the sus- picion of a luxation, from which they may be known by the swelling being single, and its not having made its appearance directly after the in- jury. Notwithstanding these statements, respecting dis- locations of the wrist, Dupuytren invariably found that these pretended accidents always turned out to be fractures of the radius near the articulation; and he was of opinion, that there is not a single unequi- vocal instance on record of a dislocation of the radio- carpal articulation. He had dissected numerous wrists, but never observed a luxation of them from a fall on the palm. The only cases, which he met with, were consequent to diseases of the articulation, or symptomatic of other lesions. (Cfe'ra. Chir. t. iv. p. 162.) Dupuytren quotes the following lines from a memoir on fractures of the fore-arm by Pou- teau:—"Cm fractures sont le plus souvent prises pour des entorses, pour cles luxations incompletes, ou pour un ecartemenl ou du cubitus ou du radius d leur jonclion vers le poignet." Desault likewise, in^no ticing fractures of the lower end of the radius, ad- verts to their having sometimes been mistaken for dislocations:—"At the present time (saj's Dupuy tren) there can be no doubt .about the frequency of fractures of the lower end of the radius, and about the impossibility, or at all events, the ex- treme rarity of dislocations." This celebrated sur- geon dwells upon a variety of anatomical circum- stances, which seem to account for the rarity of the latter kind of accident; and explains how in a fall upon the hand or front of the wrist, the force acts upon the radius, and is very likely to break its lower end, which, though thick, is of a soft spongj' structure. The resistance to the dislocation for- wards, made by the several flexor tendons, which pass under the annular ligament is also taken into the account. So considerable is the total resistance, when the wrist is very much extended, that Dupuy- tren was convinced that a force of 2000 pounds would not overcome it. As for a dislocation back- wards from a fall on the back of the hand, Dupuy- tren conceived that there was effectual resistance made to its occurrence by the extensor tendons. So strong were Dupuy tren's doubts of the possibility of a dislocation of the lower end of the radius for- wards, that he was induced to examine very care- fully the only case of it recorded with any details in modem times, namely, that published by Profes- sor Cruveilhier. {Anat. Pathol. Mai. des Articu- lations.) The subject was an adult female, about whom no information could be obtained. The fore-arm seemed shorter than natural; the lower ends of the radius and ulna formed a considerable prominence under the skin; but the radius pro- jected less than the ulna, and did not descend so far. The upper extremity of the carpus was on a plane superior and anterior to that of the lower extremity of the bones of the fore-arm. The hand formed a right angle with the fore-arm, and inclined towards the radial side. Extension was impossible; but flexion could be carried much beyond a right angle. In the dissection, Cruveilhier found all the muscles of the arm in a state of atrophy, and es- pecially the radial and ulnar extensors and flexors, and the pronators and supinators. The upper row of carpal bones were remarkably altered in shape, and, with the exception of the pisiform bone, re- duced in size by one half. The second row was likewise altered, and, indeed, of the os magnum and unciform bone the mere rudiments remained while the upper part of the trapezium and trapezoid bones, which should correspond to the scaphoid, was diminished. The ulna, but slightly altered in shape, reached live or six lines beyond the lower end of the radius. The radius was shortened and deformed, principally at its lower end, which was large and irregular, and grooved on its posterior surface for the lodgment of the extensor muscles. From these and some other particulars, M. Cru- veilhier concluded, that the accident had been a dislocation of the bones of the fore-arm backwards, or of the carpus forwards. On the contrary, Du- puytren suspected that the case had been a fracture, which, from the atrophy of the carpal bones, had probably taken place in infancy. Amongst other considerations, which influenced Dupuytren in re- garding the case as a fracture, was the shortened state of the radius; while the ulna, which was also luxated, was half an inch longer than it. On the presumption of the case being a fracture, or a de- tachment of the epiph3'sis, everything is readily explicable. The epiphysis of the radius was be- lieved bj'- Dupuytren to have been separated b}' a fall on the back of the hand, and the violence seemed to hira to have thrown it with the carpus and hand forwards. The union of the epiph)'sis to the bone appeared to him to account for the un- usual process, which supports the new articulation; and the ulna itself, really dislocated, was longer than the radius, which latter besides being broken, had been shortened by the displacement of the fragments. According to M. INIalgaigne, the short- ening of the radius, on the supposition of the case being a dislocation, was inexplicable. M-anj"^ years ago, a bricklayer was taken to the Hotel-Dieu with several dangerous injuries received in a fall. His skull was fractured, and there was a good deal of deformity about the wrist. Some surgeons thought that tliere was a dislocation of the carpus backwards. On the contrary, Dupuytren pronounced the case to be a fracture of the inferior part of the fore-arm. The patient having died of the consequences of the injurj' of the head, the correctness of Dupuytren's diagnosis was verified in the post mortem examination. M. Marjoliu was mistaken in a similar case, as was likewise proved by dissection. " Cruveilhier gives nn engraving of a fore-arm, in