1046 HYDKOCELE, of the West Indies by injecting a solution of the sulphate of zinc. (See the Lancet, vol i. 1857, p. 164.) Other kinds of stimulating fluids have been emplo3'edi for instance, solution of alum, ni- trate of silver, lime Water, cold and warm water, dilute spirits of wine, brandy and water, &c. The tincture of iodine, originally introduced by Sir Ranald Martin whilst practising at Calcutta, is now commonly preferred as a more certain and a safer mode of treatment than any other, and is fast superseding all other substances hitherto em- ploj'ed for effectinpr a radical cure. In a report of cases thus treated at the native hospital of Cal- cutta, it is stated that thirty-two cases were in- jected in the first year, 1832; and 660 in the eighth year, 1839, showing the growing confidence of the natives of the value of this new treatment. During the eight years, 2393 cases were injected, and the failures were rather under one per cent., a result that must indeed be regarded as remark- ably successful. (See Lancet, April 30, 1842.) The peculiar value of the iodine process is authen- ticated by Dr. Goodeve, another Indian practi- tioner, who employed retained injections in 272cases with but two failures, or much less than one per cent. M. Velpeau employed the remedy in many hundreds of cases without accident, and he at one time had the credit of introducing iodine into practice for hydrocele; but it was long employed in India before he used it. The success of iodine injections has been confirmed by writers all over the globe. In 1148 cases thus treated only three failed; in ten, injections with port wine had failed; and in nine, port wine and sulphate of zinc had failed. (See Frorieps, N. Notixen, 1836, and Oppenfieim in Hamburg. Zeitschr. 1828.) Mr. Liston abandoned the port wine for the iodine in the latter years of his life; and there are now ver}' few hospital surgeons of eminence who do not em- ploy it, for it must be regarded as a remedy of specific virtue in the radical treatment of hydrocele. Sir Ranald Martin uses the simple tincture in the proportion of jij. to Sj. of water, injecting only a small quantity, which is allowed to remain in the sac to be removed by absorption. It is the simple tincture which is also used by Velpeau and many others; and Mr. Fergusson thinks its effects more certnin than the compound tincture. (See Pinciical Surgery, ed. 4, p. 742.) On the other hand, Mr. Curling has found this too weak, and has latterly used a compound tincture of the fol- lowing strength, undiluted:—Iodine ^ij., iodide of potassium 3j3., spirits of wine ^i., injecting from two to three drachms,and allowing this to remain in the siic for five minutes. The greater part of the fluid is then withdrawn, about half a drachm only beiog left behind in the sac. He has not found the tincture employed in this w.ay in adults at all too stimulating. In operating, however, on per- sons under puberty, he dilutes it one half. (See Diseases of the Testis, p. 115, ed. 2.) The appa- ratus required for injecting a hydrocele is a me- dium-sized trocar, and a half-ounce glass syringe, ■with a metallic nozzle, which fits into a small stop- cock adapted to the canula. The metallic parts are reconmiended to be made of palladium, which IS not acted on by iodine, and is therefore prefer- able to silver. A good deal of pain sometimes follows the opera- tion, but the amount of inflammation excited by it cannot be estimated by the degree of pain suflered at the time. If 'the inflammation is likely to be too active, it must be moderated by suitable treat- ment; but if no pain or other symptoms arise, the surgeon must endeavour to excite it. Thus, in eight or twelve hours the patient must move about, and the testicle may be handled so as to occasion slight friction between the surfaces of the tunica vaginalis. If the swelling should become consider- able, and the inflammation so great as to produce pain and constitutional disturbance, the treatment of acute orchitis must at once be adopted. Fortunately this is but seldom required, yet an isolated ex- ample may sometimes occur. In employing iodine It must be remembered that it is not necessary to excite a sharp attack of inflammation, fur i't is surprising, as has been remarked, how slight a disturbance will sometimes be sufficient for the cure, so that the surgeon is rarely disappointed in the result of the operation. A writer, who has been already quoted, observes that iodine injection so seldom fails that it is better generally to wait the result of the operation, even when the efliects are mild, rather than resort to a measure which is not free from the risk of producing suppuration, namely the seton, which can be passed at a later period if the injection prove a failure. There is a caution which it is necessary to offer before taking leave of the subject. It is, not to persist in the use of injection should the canula slip out of the tunica vaginalis and become situated in the areolar structures of the scrotum; for this is very liable to be followed by inflammation, ab- scesses, and sloughing. When such an accident has happened, punctures should be made in the scrotum to let out the stimulating fluid, and then fomentations should be applied and aperient medi- cines given. The sac of the tunica vaginalis should never be distended by the injection, as Sir Astley Cooper has shown that the cremaster muscle con- tracts and forces a part of it out in the areolar tissues of the scrotum. Air and chlorine gas have been introduced into the tunica vaginalis with the effect of producing a radical cure in some instances. Mr. Lloyd, of Bartholomew's Hospital, has for years relied upon the introduction of a grain of red precipitate of mercury, which he conveys into the sac b}' means of a greased probe, passed through the canula after tapping has been performed; the salt is allowed to remain. The sides of the sac are then gently rubbed together, to cause the powder to be spread over the surface. (See Lancet, vol. i 1850, p. 28, and vol. i. 1857, p. 164, &c.) Afte practis- ing this plan for upwards of twentj'-four years, he has never failed in a single case; no unpleasant consequences have ensued, nor has the disease returned. M. Defer, of Metz, has treated a number of cases of hydrocele successfully with the solid nitrate of silver, introduced into the tunica vaginalis by means of a stilet carried through the canula, subsequent to tapping. The caustic is rubbed over the walls of the sac] A case is mentioned by Sir A. Cooper iu which milk was injected, on the supposition of its being a mild, unirritaling fluid; however, severe inflamma- tion followed, and an abscess in the tunica v.-igi- iialis. When an opening was made, the milk came out iu curds. Congenital Hydrocele. This term is applied to a collection of fluid in