AMAUROSIS, the commertcement of amau 32 a likely period for rosis. . . One of the less common causes of amaurosis is an idiosyncrasy in relation to this or that sort of nutriment or medicine, or this or that particular state of the body. Here is to be reckoned the amaurotic weakness of sight, or the perfect amau- rosis, which comes on at the very commencement of pregnancy, and subsides after delivery, but always attended with dyspepsia and insuperable vomiting. This species of amaurosis, however, should be carefully distinguished from that which sometimes first originates in the final months of pregnane}', and chiefly from strong and long-con- tinued determination of blood to the head and eyes, particularly when the bowels are at the same time loaded, and the patient constipated. ihis latter case usually continues till after delivery; or, if the labour be tedious, difficult, and attended with considerable efforts, the blindness may first attam its complete form at the time of delivery, and not afterwards subside. Beer saw a young Jewess, who, at the very beginning of her first three pregnancies, which followed each other quickly, regularly lost her sii'ht, becoming completely amaurotic between the third and fourth months, and, on the two first oc- casions, she continued blind till after delivery; but, in the third instance, the power of vision never re- turned at all. (See also Dhnows, Traits des Mai. des Ycux, I. i. p. 380.) Beer twice had under his care another woman, who was attacked witli amaurosis whenever she drank chocolate; but, upon leaving off that drink, she never afterwards had any complaint in her eyes. According to Richter, the causes of amaurosis may be properly divided into three principal classes, the differences of which indicate three general methods of treatment. The first class of causes depends upon an extraor- dinary plethora and turgidity of the blood-vessels of the brain, or of those of the optic nerves and retina;, upon which last parts a degree of pressure is thereby supposed to be occasioned. A considerable pie hora, especially when the patient heats himself or keeps his head in a depending position, will frequently excite the appearance of black specks before the eyes, and sometimes complete blindness A plethoric person (says Richter) who held his breath, and looked at a white wall was conscious of discerning a kind of network, which alternately appeared and disappeared with the diastole and systole of the arteries. . Richter thinks it likely, that the disease is thus produced, when it proceeds from the suppression of some habitual discharge of blood, from the neglect to be bled according to custom, the stop- page of the menses, and the cessation of hemor- rhage from piles. In the same manner, the com- plaint may be brought on by grcat_ bodily exer- tions which determine a more rapid current of blood to the head. Richter informs us of a man who became blind all on a sudden, while carrying a heavy burden up stairs. He tells us of another ni-in who laboured excessively hard for three days in succession, and became blind at the end of the third day. Pregnant women, in like manner nre sometimes bereft of their sight during the time nf labour Schmucker has recorded a remark- able instance of this in a strong young woman Sirty jiars old, and of a full habit. ^V henev.r she was pregnant, she was troubled with violent sickness, till the time of delivery, so that nothing would stop in her stomach. She was bled, three or four times without effect. Towards the ninth month her sight grew weak, and for eight or ten days before parturition, she was quite blind. The pupil of the eye was greatly enlarged, but retained its shining black appearance. She recovered her sight immediately after delivery, and did not suffer any particular complaints. Schmucker assures us, that he has been three times a witness of this extraordinary circumstance. (Vermischto Cliir. Schriften, band ii. p. 6, ed. 1786.) Richter speaks of a person, who lost his sight during a violent fit of vomiting. Schmucker acquaints us, that it is not uncommon for soldiers, who are per- forming forced marches in hot weather, to become suddenly blind. Beer "also coincides with Schmucker, Richter, and others, in regarding, as a frequent cause of amaurosis, repeated and long-continued determina- tions of blood to the head and eyes, produced by various circumstances, viz. by pregnancy; a tedious and difficult labour ; lifting and carrying heavy burdens, especially with the arms raised up ; all kinds of work in which the eyesight and intellectual faculties are intensely exerted, with the head bent forwards, and the abdomen compressed, as is the case with shoemakers, tailors, &c. ; every sudden stoppage of natural, or preternatural long- established discharges of blood, as that of the menses lochia, or hemorrhoids ; the omission of habitual venesection at some paiticular season of the year; severe and obstinate vomiting ; forced marches in hot, dry weather ; scrofulous and other swellings of considerable size in the neck, pressing upon the jugular veins, and obstructing the return of blood from the head ; the use of a pediluvium, or warm bath, the water of which is of high temperature; hard drinking; violent gusts of passion ; frequent and obstinate constipation ; and hard straining at stool. These causes are more likely to occasion amaurosis, in proportion as the individual is young and plethoric. The causes of that amaurosis which is characterised in its first stage by increased sensi- bility of the eye, and intolerance of light, arc re- ferred by Professor Beer to circumstances which produce a long and repeated determination of blood to the head and eyes. {Lehrc vm den. Augenh: b. ii. p. 446 and 483, &c.) _ . Mr. Lawrence regards amaurosis, m its most frequent and important form, that which is seated in the eve itself, as generally the result of mflaui- mation of the nervous structiu-e ; including under that phrase all degrees of increased vascular action, whether designated as fulness, turgescence, determination, congestion, or as inflammation nr its more limited sense ; and the usual consequence of inflammatory disturbance, that is, organic change permanently destroying the function of the part When, says he, we advert to the structure of the Sa we' must suppose that it would be lab e to such affections ; we find it composed of minute amilications of the arteria centralis rctnu-c, and 01 this network of vessels the nervous pulp is ex- panded. The state of the retina, when e.xam ned E death, in amaurotic ej-es, --■j'l.YV.tU these views ; it e-^hibits those changes which long-con- tinued inflammatory disturbance would produce; it has been found thickened, opaque, spotted, buff- coloured, tougli, and, in some cases, even ossified.