102 AMPUTATION, tliat made in the common place of election, viz. three or four finger-breadths below the tuberosity of the tibia. Since the above-mentioned campaign Larrey has adopted this practice in many cases, where it was impossible to have operated" at tlip usual place ; and he assures us, the success fully equalled what attends operations done at the ordi- nary distance from the knee. In 1806, another French military surgeon, who had tried this me- thod himself, published a dissertation, in which he commended operating-, where circumstances required it, much higher than the point allowed by generally received rules. Larrey diifers, how- ever, from Garrigues, in forbidding amputation higher than the level of the tuberosity of the tibia, the thick portion of which may be sawn, but not above the insertion of the tendon of the patella. A transverse line, drawn from this point, usually passes below the articulation of the fibula, and over the lower portion of the uppermost part of the condyles of the tibia ; but, as the relative positions of the heads of the two bones to each other differ somewhat in different individuals, Larrey makes the tuberosity of the tibia the point above which the bone should never be sawn. By cutting higher, the ligament of the patella is separated from its insertion; the bursa mucosa, situated underneath it, is wounded; and the ligaments at the sides of the joint are injured : whence arise retraction of the patella, efli"usion of the synovia, and such dis- ease of the knee-joint as may render another am- putation indispensable. B}^ making the division on a level with the tuberosity of the tibia, the attachment of the ligament of the patella is pre- served as well as that of the flexor tendons of the leg, which are requisite for the motion of the stump. The bursa mucosa is left untouched; and the head of the bone is sawn low enough to avoid creatmg a risk of caries. But, says Larrey, if this mode of amputating below the knee be compared with amputation of the thigh, as re- commended by authors for the cases in which the new method is proposed, the advantages of the latter are considerable. In the first place, life is less endangered, because a smaller portion of the body is removed. The operation is as easy in one situation as the other. The stumps heal with equal facility. Larrey has never seen the spongy part of the tibia become carious, nor preceptibly ex- foliate. When the remaining portion of the fibula is very short, as usually happens, he recommends it to be taken away, as it is a useless body, in- convenient for the employment of a wooden leg. He directs as much skin as possible to be pre- served, and a perpendicular incision, through that part of it which covers the tibia, in order to hinder the bone from making its way through it by ulceration. As M. Malgaigne particularly remarks, the exact situation of the tuberosity of the tibia should always be precisely ascertained before the operation is begun, so as to avoid cutting through the insertion of the ligament of the patella, and opening the synovial membrane behind it. The tibial tuberosity presents a tri.angular surface, the inferior angle of which is continuous with the crista of the tibia. As the ligament of the patella is inserted into the whole of the triangular surface, Malgaigne unctions, where circumstances call for it, a bold division of it nearly as liigh as its base, the remaining connec- tion of the patella with the tibia by the latter part being sufficient. I fear this plan would too often be followed by injuries and disease of the knee-joint, to merit adoption. With a stump thus formed, comprising the knee and one or two finger-breadths of the leg, the patient has a firm point of support, on which he can securely walk without a stick. The stump admits also of an artificial leg of the natural shape being worn, the knee being always bent, provided the length of the stump do not exceed the diameter of the calf of the artificial limb. {Man. de Chir. Mil. t. iii. p. 386—394.) From a passage quoted by Mr. Guthrie, it would seem that Mr. Bromfield (CJiir. Ohs. and Cases, vol. i. p. 185) advised am- putating as near to the knee as could be done without risk of cutting the ligament of the patella, so that the stump might not extend beyond the wooden leg. On the whole, Mr. Guthrie's own observations are favourable to this practice; but he candidly acknowledges his belief, that "it would not succeed when indiscriminately done in the hospitals of large cities," though it may fre- quently be practised in the army with advantage, provided the surgeon saw through the tibia below its tuberosity. (On Gunshot Womids, p. 223 and 227.) Upon looking over the details of the cases recorded by Larrey in confirmation of the above statement, I was struck with one important fact, which does not justify a part of his commendations ; viz. that most of the stumps were above four months in healing; and that which healed most quickly was not well before the sixty- eighth day. (See Man. de Chir. Mil. t. iii. p. 57, 397, 398, &c.) lience, unless it be supposed that the vi'ounds produced by amputation below the knee in the ordinary manner are generally thus long in healing, as treated by the French surgeons, the inference is rather unfavourable to the method so highly commended by Larrey. One advantage of this operation is, that fre- quently only the popliteal artery requires a li- gature, this vessel not dividing till lower down. Before adjusting the flaps, Mr. Listen sometimes cuts off tlie sharp anterior edge of the tibia with the pliers, for the purpose of preventing it from injuring the integuments. Mr. Listen objects to Larrey's method of cutting away the head of the fibula, because, in several cases where he tried it, a discharge of synovial fluid occurred on the se- cond daj', followed by profuse long-continued suppuration. In more than one case, the joint became anchylosed, and one patient died from the copiousness of the discharge. Mr. Listen found, from repeated examination of the parts on the dead subject, that in cutting out the head of the fibula, the capsular ligament was wounded, or the bursal cavity beneath the popliteus muscle, communicating with that of the knee-joint. {Elemcnis, part iii. p. 391—393.) [Amputation about an inch below the tuberosity of the tibia has lately been advocated by Mr. Syme. He thinks the stump thus fonued is long enough to preserve the use of the knee- joint, and he prefers it because the medullary cavity is not opened, and the dense bone which is liable to exfoliation is not cut through. Like Mr. Listen, he thinks it better to retain the head of the fibula, both because its removal might give rise to inflammation in the joint, and also because it de- stroys the insertion of the biceps muscle. (See Lancet, Feb. 24, 1855.) The preservation of_ the flexor muscle is important, if the patient is to