DISLOCATION. 573 surface of the tibia ia partially in contact with that of the astragalus; sometiraes, however, the tibia is completely separated from the foot, and the inter- nal malleolus may then descend towards the sole, while the foot, with the external malleolus, is dis- placed upwards as well as outwards. In a case of this kind described by Dupuytren, the symptoms which most attracted attention were the shortness of the leg, together with the almost doubled inter- val between the malleoli and the prolongation of the tibia downwards to a level with the sole of the foot: the astragalus and outer malleolus, together with the whole foot, were drawn up on the outer side of the tibia, two inches above their normal position. When there is so great a displacement as this, the integument generally gives way on the inner side and the tibia protrudes, rendering the dislocation a compound one; but in this instance the skin remained entire, the dislocation was speedily reduced, and in less than six weeks the patient was able to walk with crutches, and there was not the slightest irregularity in the form of the injured limb. (See Dupuytren, Sydenham Society's translation, p. 282, case xvi.) Of course in such a case, ail the ligaments con- necting the tibia and fibula must be ruptured. Fre- quently, however, instead of the internal lateral ligament giving way, the internal malleolus is broken off, and remains connected to the astragalus by the ligament. Sometimes the malleolus is detached from the tibia at its base, sometimes it is the point only which is torn off. If there is any considerable separation between the tibia and fibula, the strong tibio-fibular ligaments are torn through, or else, as Sir A. Cooper explained, a portion of the tibia is split off and remains connected with the fibula by ligament.] Reduction. — In former times, great difficulty used often to be met with in reducing this disloca- tion, and in maintaining the bones in their place after their reduction. It was Mr. Pott who first explained the reason of this difficulty, and pointed out the necessity of placing the limb in such a position as to relax fis much as possible all the resisting muscles. " All the trouble, pain, diffi- culty, and inconvenience," he observes, " are occasioned by putting and keeping the limb in such a position as necessarily puts the muscles into action, or into a state of resistance, which in this case is the same. This occasions the difficulty in reduction, and the difficulty in keeping it reduced ; this distorts the foot, and by pulling it outward and upward, makes that deformity which always accompanies such accidents : but if the position of the limb be changed ; if by laying it on its outside, with the knee moderately bent, the muscles forming the calf of the leg, and those which pass behind the fibula and imder the os calcis, are all put into a state of relaxation and non- resistance, all this difficulty and trouble do in general vanish immediately; the foot may easily be placed right, the joint reduced, and by maintaining the same disposition of the limb, everything will in general succeed very happily, as I have many times experienced."—Pott. [Sometimes, of late j-ears, when much difficulty has been met, with in reducing the dislocation, the tendo Achillishas been divided 8ubcutaneously,and with excellent effect. Several instances in which this practice was followed, have been related by Mr. Cock. (See Guy's Hon]). Reports, 1055,)] Dupuytren admits that Pott's method easily effects a reduction, but thinks it incapable of main- taining it, and consequently he prefers a method of treatment which will be explained in the part of the article Fracture relating to fractures of the fibula. Sir A. Cooper adopts Pott's principles; and directs that the patient " should be placed on the side on which the injury has been sustained ; the surgeon is then to bend the leg at right angles with the thigh, so as to relax the gastrocnemii muscles as much as possible ; and an assistant, grasping the foot, must gradually draw it in a line with the leg. The surgeon then fixes the thigh and presses the tibia downwards, thus forcing it upon the articular surface of the astragalus. Great force is required if the limb be placed in the extended position, from the resistance of the gas- trocnemii ; and it is pleasing to observe, after the most violent attempts by others, a well-informed surgeon gently bend the limb, and under a com- paratively slight extension, return the parts to their natural situation.'' He then applies two splints, one to the inner and one to the outer side of the leg, each with a foot-piece, to give support to the foot, to prevent its eversion, and to preserve it at right angles with the leg. {On Dislocations, p. 17fi, ed. 10.) I have no doubt that placing the limb on M'lntyre's apparatus, as done at University College Hospital, is quite as good a method of treating this and all other dislocations of the ancle, with fracture of the fibula, as any j'et proposed, not excepting that of Dupuytren; which will be noticed in the article Fracture. [This plan is now adopted in most of the London hospitals, and is found to be in many respects much more convenient than that of placing the injured limb on its outer side, as recommended by Pott, Dupuytren, and Sir A. Cooper. The apparatus admits of relaxation of the muscles to any required extent, by increasing the angle opposite the knee-joint. The foot may be securely fixed and supported by the foot-piece, which corresponds to the sole, and if any pressure should be required to prevent the re- currence of the displacement of the tibia inwards or of the foot outwards, it may be obtained by placing pads in the proper situations between these parts and the sides of the apparatus. For a further de- scription of these appliances, see Fractures op THE Leg.] 2. Dislocation of the tibia and fibula outwards ; or of the foot inioards, sometimes without fracture, but most frequently with fracture of 07ie or both malleoli.— [This is much loss common than the dislocation inwards, and,according to Sir A. Cooper, it is a more severe injury, and is attended with more contusion of the integuments, more laceration of ligament, and greater injury to the bones than either of the others. M. Malgaigne found that out of twenty-two cases, tlic records of which he investigated, as many as nineteen were compound dislocations. In reference to the frequency of its occurrence, he states, that no example of this injury, cither simple or compound, has come under his own observation, that Dupuytren only mot with three cases, and Sir A, Cooper with a like number, though the latter has recorded nine others which were communicated to him by his friends. The injury to the hones is not so constant or uniform in this as in the dielocatioii of the tibia iu-