BLADDER, its evacuation. Six of these were at the posterior, and one at the superior, part of the bladder. He speaks of them, however, as being nearly all sub- periioneal, and of the effusion as having a ten- dency to become encysted, somewhat in the man- ner of the cases above described. (See Nclaion, p. 164.) Such a case, however, is only a partial rupture, extending through the mucous and mus- cular coats. The remarks, both of Dr. Harrison and M. Houel, refer to rupture of the bladder occurring as a sub- stantive injury, and not as the result of fractures of the pelvis, or accompanied by other complications. Rupture, or laceration, however, is occasionally caused by, or associated with, fracture of the bones in its immediate vicinity. Mr. Prescott Hewett has related ten cases of ruptured bladder ; in eight of which the pelvis was extensively fractured. Mr. Hewett's observa- tions confirm the possibility of the cellular tissue becoming condensed so as to form a pouch con- taining the effused urine. In one patient who lived five days, and in another who survived twenty-three days, this was found to have taken place, (See Transac. of the Pathol. 5oc., and Coul- son On Dis. of the Bladder., p. 2.34.)] With respect to the diagnosis of the kind of rupture of the bladder now under consideration, it is observed by Dr. Harrison, that, as it is the effect of only two species of injury, the account of the accident will aiford useful information. Thus, every case on record has been the result either of some force directly applied to the abdo- men, or of a general concussion of the whole frame. In this latter case, the injury is more likely to be overlooked, particularly if the individual has suffered in any other and more obvious manner: hence, after such accidents, the attention of the practitioner should be early directed to the urinary discharge, and if there be any inability to pass the urine, and a desire to do so, the catheter should be introduced. When the rupture has been the effect of violence directly applied to the hypo- gastric region, the symptoms are more obvious. The patient himself is often aware of the accident: he knew that his bladder was full at the time of the injury ; perhaps he felt it burst within him. Then the sensation of sinking and sickness, the pain in the abdomen, and the peculiar feeling about the prsecordia, are all circumstances indica- tive of the rupture of some viscus. In addition to these symptoms, there will be a desire to make water without the power of doing so ; great pain in the belly atid perineum during the attempts ; tension of the abdomen, the fulness being diffused, and not circumscribed as in common retention of urine. When a catheter is introduced into the bladder it meets with a peculiar resistance ; and the urine flows through it, not in a stream, but as if it merely filled and overflowed the instrument slowly ; at one time only in a few drops, at an- other in considerable quantity ; " this difference depending on some alteration in the direction of the instrument, or in the degree of pressure with which it is pushed against the bladder, whereby tlie edges of the rupture must be separated, and more or less of the abdominal and pelvic urine be discharged." {Harrison, in Dub. Journ. of Med. Science, vol. ix. p. 377.) In one case, recorded by Mr. Ciisack, only a few drops of urine could be drawn off with the catheter on the day of the accident. On the next, no urine flowed at first ; but, by changing the direction of the instrument, and on making pres- sure with the finger in ano, about three pints were discharged. On the third day, as all the symptoms continued unabated, the abdomen was punctured in the linea alba, midway between the umbilicus and the pubes ; and a large quantity of clear urine escaped, and, at the same time, it flowed freely from a catheter in the urethra. The relief was only temporary, the patient having died delirious on the eighth day. On dissection, marks of intense inflam- mation were noticed in the hypogastric region, where the intestines were glued together into one mass. At first no urine was seen ; but on break- ing the adhesions and raising up the intestines, about a pint of it was sponged out from between the rectum and the bladder. "The pelvic portion of the peritoneum was completely coated with lymph ; the bladder was contracted and empty ; the rupture, about an inch in extent, was in its posterior part and right side, and in an oblique direction. (See Cusack, in Bub. Hosjntal Reports, vol. ii. p. 312.) In t\\& post-mortem examination of a case under Dupuytren, traces of severe inflammation were ob- served in the hypogastric region. Adhesion ex- isted between the abdominal parietes and the bladder, and the sides of the latter and the adja- cent viscera were all so agglutinated together, that a kind of pouch was formed, considerably ad- vanced in organisation, whereby the urine was circumscribed, and effusion to any further distance prevented. (See Archives Gen. June, 1834, p. 294.) In general, the bladder, though the seat of injur)', is itself but little inflamed, except at the posterior portion of its serous coat. {Harrison, in Dub. Journ. of Med. Science, vol. ix. p. 375.) In the treatment, the principal indications are to withdraw, if possible, the effused fluid from the abdomen ; to prevent any return or increase of such effusion ; and to resist and subdue that un- avoidable and very fatal affection peritonitis. With this view, any accumulation of urine in the blad- der should be prevented hy the introduction of an elastic gum catheter of full size with a long and large curve; and if, by changing its direction, or other manoeuvres, its beak can be passed through the rent, or made to reach its vicinity so as to open it, a considerable quantity of urine may be drawn from the cavity of the peritoneum. Pres- sure with the finger in ano is also to be tried, {Harrison, vol. cit. p. 379.) In the case which I attended, a catheter of full size was kept continually introduced. In this waj-, we endeavour to lessen the exciting cause of the inflammation, which, how- ever, is sure to follow the efl'usion of so irritating a fluid as the urine. Inflammation must therefore be resisted by local and general bleeding ; calomel, opium, and mild saline purgatives given with the effervescing mixture. If the disease advance, and the pains in the abdomen become more intense, with swelling and fluctuation, ought the surgeon to perform paracentesis ? This has been done in two instances, but without success. " The urine which is effused is principally lodged in the pelvic cul-de- sac, and is more or less confined to that region, partly from its depending position, and partly from the adhesions, which we have reason to expect, under in-opor and active treatment, may have been formed between the bladder and the adjacent