768 by macerating tlie soft substance and Wcasliing it away, or dissolving the ineduliiiry matter with the aid of allcalies. This lobiilated and encysted structure is generally noticed in cases where the tumor is near the surface of the bodj'. These cysts, in which the medullary matter is often con- tained, are externally fibrous and cellular, but iiiternally they present, as Dupuytren remarks, a completely serous organisation, and here a serosity exhales from them.- Sometimes the medullary matter originates from, and is adherent to, a single point of the cyst; while in other instances it ad- heres almost to every part of the interior of the cyst, which is itself closely connected to the sur- rounding textures. Under these circumstances the cj'st is fibro-cellular or entirely fibrous. (See Dupuytren, in Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 57.) Dr. Hodgkin has advanced the doctrine that the presence of a serous membrane having a cysti- form arrangement, is necessary for the production of cancerous and some other kinds of tumors. The existence of the cyst, he believes, precedes the for- mation of the morbid substance, and constitutes the seat and origin (f the disease. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xv.) Although Dr. Cars well admits that this mode of origin is sometimes ex- emplified, he mentions facts which leave no doubt that it is only accidental and not essential. Cysts, he observes, partake of the structure and functions of serous membrane, and consequently are subject to similar diseases. " If therefore such cysts should exist in an individual having the cancerous diathesis, they may in the same manner as a natural serous membrane become the seat of any variety of carcinoma. But although carcinomatous tumors, such as those described by Dr. Hodgkin, are found contained in cysts, attached, single, or in groups, and covered by a reflected serous membrane, these tumors may, and frequently do, not originate in the cysts. They may form in the cellidar tissue external to the cysts, and during their develop-, ment project inwards, carrying before them, as their common envelope, the internal and serous lining of the latter. Such, in fact, is seen to be the origin of these tumors in most of 'the cysts represented by Dr. Hodgkin in the work referred to. They are situated external to the cyst, are supplied with vessels which do not belong to it, and are placed in the same circumstances as tumors formed in tlie cellular tissue when no cyst is present. " As an objection to the general application of the cystic origin of tumors, it may be observed that the presence of cysts in the liver, walls of the stomach, lungs, kidneys, brain, lymphatic glands, spleen, and blood, is not to be detected at any period of the development of carcinoma; and there- fore, when they do occur in other organs, as the ovaries, testes, mamnioe, &c., they must be regarded as a mere coincidence, or as a consequence of the disease, and not as a cause or necessar}' condition of it." (See CarsrvelVs lUustralions of the Elem. Forms of Disease, fasc. ii.) A very iiitorostiiig fact in relation to fungus »ia;matodes, or medullary sarcoma, is that of the occasional presence of the cerebri form substance in the vems and absorbents. A similar fact is noticed ^vnh ,-eg„rd to scirrhous cancer. Dr. Carswell behoves that the carcinomatous and medullary this iUiid alone or in other parts at the same FUNGUS I-r^MATODES. time, and he supports his view upon the facts- 1st, that the morbid substance is found in the vessels which ramify in these malignant tumors or their vicinity. 2dly, That it is found in those vessels which communicate with the diseased parts of an organ 3dly, That it is sometimes met with in vessels having no direct communication with another part that is the seat of the same disease. After noticing that the venous and capillary divi- sions of the vascular system are those in which the carcinomatous substance has been observed, Ur. Carswell describes the forms under which it appears m the blood, and which are exceedin<rly various; "sometimes perfectly similar to those which mark its presence in the substance or nu the surface of organs. In large veins, such as the vena portaj and its branches, the emulgent vein, &c. it may present the lardaceous, mammary, medullary, or hfematoid characters, all in the same venous trunk. These varieties of the carcinoma- tous formation may be found mixed together in minute quantities, or isolated into masses so con- spicuous, that we can readily distinguish them from one another. Sometimes they lie merely in contact with the internal parietes of the vein ; at other times they are united to the latter by means of a thin layer of colourless fibrine ; or minute blood-vessels pass from the one into the other, and are often very numerous, and remarkably conspi- cuous in the cerebriform matter." It seems to Dr. Carswell that the presence of an organised product in the blood can have no other origin than the blood itself, and that such a product cannot be introduced into this fluid by absorption. (See Illustrations of the Elem. Forms of Disease, fasc. ii.) By some pathologists a different view is taken of this part of the subject, and they maintain that, when the carcinomatous or medullary matter is found in the blood, it has been absorbed. On this principle, the extension of the disease is even attempted to be in part accounted for. But the frequently organised state of the product in the blood, and its occasional existence there without any traces of a similar formation in any other part of the system, are arguments strongly confirming the accuracy of Dr. Carswell's stateinents. This gentleman's doctrine is not, however, universally adopted. Til us. Dr. Copland observes that the formation of the cerebriform matter in tlie blood, and its subsequent deposit in the parts w-hich are its seats, "cannot be supported by the history'and progress of the local and constitutional affections. If it were previously formed in the blood, where- fore is it often deposited only in one situation? Wherefore is it not excreted by the emunctories ? Wherefore does it not always allect a number of parts simultaneously ? AVherefore is it never found in the arteries, and so frequently in the absorbents and veins proceeding from the seat of the disease ? " These and other questions, Dr. Co]>- land maintains, cannot be answered consistently with Dr. Carswell's doctrine. (See Diet, of Pracf. Med. art. Fungoid Disease.) "With respect to tlie medullary substance never being met with in the arteries, Mr. Hey states, that in a case of fungus hrematodes of the thigh, " the femoral artery was filled with matter, resembling stiff coagulated blood, which prevented the blond from flowing through the divided vessel." According to the researches of Lohst«in,tlie firmer