coo panurn, and other serious miscliief. Thus, in one case, Ribes and Chaussier found the handle of the malleus separated fro7n its liead, partly destroyed, and covered with the hardened cerumen that had made its way into the tympanum. (See DicL des Sciences Med. t. xxxviii. p. 30.) " The symptoms (says Mr. Saunders) which are attached to the inspissation of the cerumen are pretty well known. The patient, besides his ina- bility to hear, often complains of noises, particularly a clash or confused sound in mastication, and of heavy sounds, like the ponderous strokes of a hammer. " The practitioner is led by the relation of such symptoms to suspect the existence of wax ; but he may reduce it to a certainty by examination. " Any means capable of removing the inspis- sated wax may be adopted ; but syringing the meatus with warm water is the most speedy and effectual, and the only means necessary. As the organ is sound, the patient is instantaneously re- stored." {A natomy of the Human Ear, luith a Treatise on its Diseases, hy J. C. Saunders, 1806, p. 27, 28.) In order to throw an injection into the ear with effect, a syringe, capable of holding from four to six ounces, should be employed, and the fluid in- jected with a good deal of force, care being taken to let it enter in the natural direction, and not against one of the sides of the passage. The surgeon must also avoid pressing the pipe too deeply into the ear, so as to hurt the tympanum. As the fluid regurgi- tates with considerable rapidity, a small basin is to be held close up to the ear at the time of using the syringe, so as to catch the water, and hinder it from wetting the patient's clothes ; for the surer prevention of which a napkin is also to be laid over the shoulder. In general it is necessary to throw the water into the ear six or seven times, or more, ere the pellets of wax are loosened, and en- tirely brought out ; and sometimes, the injections ■will not completely succeed the first day on which they are employed. The evening before the syringe is to be used, a little warm water may be dropped into the ear. _ [It not unusually happens that'the patient, upon rising in the morning, finds himself deaf, not hav- ing been aware of a " hardness of hearing" some time ^ previously ; this new symptom is evidently occasioned by lying upon that side of the head, and the collection becoming moulded against the membrane of the tympanum, If any difficulty exist, or is expected, in the removal of the inspis- sated secretion, the ear had better be filled for a night or two with water, which is a better solvent than oil. In injecting, the water should be thrown along one side of the meatus, between the canal and the hard wax, and with force insuf- ficient to excite pain.] 7. Imperfect Secretion of Wax. When the wax is deficient in quantity, Mr. Buchanan recommends warmth and stimulant ap- plications. He advises two drops of the following mixture to be introduced into the meatus auditorius, every night at bedtime Acid. Pyiolign. bpir. TEtheris Sulphur. 01. Terebinth, aa M. Une tablespoonful of the following medicine is also to be taken at the same time:—Jt,. Tinct Colchici 5iij. A(i destillat. 3 vj. M. If costiveness KAR. prevail, the piluloe rhel. comp. are to be given, (bee Buchanan s Acoustic Suryery, p. CO ) When the quality of the secretion requires im- provement, the meatus is to be frequently washed out, and a little of the infusion of quassia with rhubarb and magnesia given once or twice a day. Ihe warm bath is to be occasionally used at bed- time, and the following powder exhibited:— f y^'f ?• chlor. gr. ij. Pulv. Ipecac, comp. yj. It, J^ulv. Hora decubitus sumend. In cases where the ear is preternaturally drj', and the cuticle of the meatus peels off, the ensuing injec- tion IS to be used every second or third day: ^. Acid. Pyrolign, 3ij. Aqua3 destillatffi j vi.'ft. lotio ; or the vapour of a mixture of equal parts of distilled water and pyroligneous acid introduced three times a week into the meatus with the aid of a glass retort. A little cotton should afterwards be put mto the ear. (See Buchanan's Acoustic Sur- gery, p. 62.) [This is a most rare cause of deafness, if it ever occurs as a primary disease ; this deficient secretion IS not at all infi-equently a part of a general loss of power of the whole organ, usually sympathising with an anesthenic auditory nerve. It also follows the various kinds of inflammation of the canal, particularly of the ceruminous follicles, and these especially may give rise to exfoliations of the cuticle._ The remedy best suited to the latter con- dition is the ung. hydrar. nitr. melted and placed on the diseased part of the tube, and allowed to remain, or, being diluted, it may be frequently re- newed ; the various ointments of zinc, and of lead, are valuable applications.] 8. Discharges from the Meatus Auditorius. Purulent discharges from the ear either come from the meatus auditorius externus itself, or they originate from suppuration in the t3-mpanum, in consequence of blows on the head, abscesses afterma- lignaut fevers, the small-pox, or the venereal disease. [By far the most frequent cause of such discharges is scarlet fever, which occasions disease of the tympa- num, as frequently as, perhaps more so than all the other exciting causes together ; a circumstance to be expected from the tympanum being situated in the interval between the outer ear and the Eusta- chian tube, the exanthematous disease spreading along both canals.] In such cases the little bones of the ear are sometimes detached, and escape ex- ternally, and complete deafness is most frequently the consequence. However, in a few instances, total deafness does not foflow even this kind of mischief, as I myself have witnessed on one or two occasions. [Deafness is not usually complete upon the loss of the ossicula, though the hearing is gone- rally much affected ; but even sometimes its dimi- nution is liardly perceptible, particularly in the young, in whom the auditory nerve, and the general capability of appreciating lessened sounds, may be so much increased in power as to supply in a great measure the deficiency occasioned by the loss of the mechanical portion of the organ. It does not generally happen that the stapes comes away, and when such is the case, complete deafness usually results ; it has, however, occurred to the editor of this article to be certainly assured of the escape of the stapes, with good hearing still remaining.] There is greater hope when the disorder is con- fined to the meatus ; as judicious treatment may now avert the most serious eonsequences.