OPERATION. 372 CJESAHEAN tenance loses its colour, the pulse grows weak, and the extremities become cold and covered with a cold sweat; when the abdomen is generally flat and onlj^ partially affected with the swelling occa- sioned by tlie fcEtus, which either continues to move, or is dead and motionless; when the patient complains of a moderate des;ree of heat about the belly ; and, lastly, when the child shrinks from the touch of the accoucheur ; it is manifest that the uterus is lacerated. If the child has passed completely into the abdomen, its extraction by in- cision is the only resource ; and whether this should be attempted or not, must depend upon circumstances. If a part of the child, however, were yet in the uterus, it might be extracted, with the aid of the forceps, if the head presented, or by the feet, provided only the upper part of the body were in the abdomen. Baudelocque quotes three instances of gastro- tomy, performed on account of rupture of the ute- rus. The first is that inserted by Thibaud Du- bois, in the Journal de Mededne, for May, 1760. Every preparation was made for a natural labour, when, after excessively violent pains about the upper and left parts of the uterus, the child disap- peared. Thibaud opened the abdomen, though not till some hours after the accident. The infant was dead; but the mother experienced no ill eflfects after the operation, except such as are usual after ordinary labours. The second and third cases were communicated to the French Academy of Surgery, in 1775, by Lambron. He practised the operation twice, on the same woman, with success. In the first in- stance, he operated eighteen hours after the rupture of the uterus. The child was dead. An ill con- ditioned abscess formed near the wound; but the patient got quite well in the course of six weeks. She was pregnant again the following year, and the uterus was once more ruptured. Lambron now had recourse to the operation without delay. The child betrayed some signs of life, but soon died. The mother not only survived, but after- wards became pregnant again, and had a favoiu'able delivery. Dr. Locher, of Zurich, saved both the mother and child by the Cffisarean operation, performed in the linea alba. After her recovery, a small point of the wound, not exceeding two or three lines in length and breadth, required a long time to be quite healed, though no particular inconve- nience was experienced from it. Some time afterwards the cicatrix gave way again, and a por- tion of omentum protruded, which was reduced, when a piece of bowel came out, and was also re- turned. The edges of the wound were then brought together ; but a small superficial ulcer continued open in spite of every effort to close it. In 1818, the year following that in which the Csesarean operation had been performed upon her, she became pregnant again, and the chief particularity, which happened during gestation, was an increase in the size of the preceding ulcer, which became three inches in width. The sore, however, was covered with charpie, and the inte- guments well supported with adiiesive plaster. On the 23rd of May, she was seized with labour- pains ; and, about seven in the evening, she com- plained all at once of a very acute pain, and at the same moment voided a considerable quantity of blood from the vagina. On examining by this passage nothing was discovered ; but when the hand was applied below the navel, in the line of the old wound, and under the ulcer, a circum- scribed firm swelling was felt, caused by the child's head, of which the sutures were plainly discernible. Dr. Locher naturally concluded that the uterus had burst, so as to allow the child to escape, and the haemorrhage was thus easily ex- plained. A repetition of the Caesarean operation was deemed indispensable. The place of the in- cision was determined by the round swelling, caused by the child's head. An incision six inches in length, was made into the abdomen, where a quantity of coagulated blood was found. When this had been removed, the membranes presented themselves, exhibiting a bluish hue, and, after they had been opened the head of the child immediately appeared. The navel-string passed round the neck, and was also compressed in the opening of the uterus. The. child evinced no signs of life. The placenta came away during the attemps to re- animate the child. The uterus contracted, and there was little bleeding. This patient, after a good deal of indisposition, and occasional approaches to a perfect recover}', was at length attacked v/ith inflammation of the stomach and bowels, and died on the 9th of Julj', nearly two months after the operation. The uterus was found contracted to a small size, with an opening, of about the size of an almond, on its anterior surface, with a rounded callous edge. This aperture Dr. Locher thinks had remained ever since the first operation, and had allowed the escape of the child in the second labour ; a circumstance which may be doubted, as the haemorrhage indicated the period when the uterus had been lacerated, as this gentleman indeed has in one place particularly noticed himself. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi. p. 182, &c.) An almost incredible case is related of what may be called a Caesarean birth, effected solely by the powers of nature, and, as would appear, bj' a sudden rupture of the uterus and parietes of the abdomen, after the patient had been in labour three days. (See Essays and Obs. Physical and Literary, vol. ii.) A laceration in the uterus, or the wound made in this viscus in the Cfesarean operation, may give rise to dangerous and even fatal symptoms of stran- gulation, if any of the intestines insinuate them- selves into the preternatural opening. When such an occurrence happens in the performance of the preceding operation, the intestine must be directly withdrawn and replaced. If the accident were to happen when the child is extracted in the natural way, the bowel is to be pushed back into the ab- domen from the uterus. Were tiie occurrence to take place several days after the operation, Sabatier inquires, what ought to be done ? A surgeon is said to have pushed back the intestine from the uterus as late as the third day. Sabatier thinks, that later it could not be done. In this circum- stance, Baudelocque advises the operation suggested by Pigrai, namely, that of opening the abdomen and withdrawing the bowel from the place in which it is incarcerated, Gastrotomy has not only been recommended for cases where the child had passed into the abdomen through a rupture of the uterus ; it has likewise been advised for instances in which the foetus has grown in the Fallopian tube, ovary, or cavity of the abdomen. Here, indeed, the operation deserves to be called Caosarean ; for, in addition to the in-