"^"2 II/EMORRHAGE But this congnlatcd blood, like the external co- ngnlum of a divided artery, affords only a temporary barrier to tlie hseinorrhage; its permanent suppres Bion is effected by a process of reparation, or of obliteration. Dr. Jones's experiments prove that an arterjr, if wounded only to a moderate extent, is capable of reuniting and healing so completely, that, after a certain time, the cicatrisation cannot be discovei-ed either on its interjial or external surface; and that even oblique and transverse wounds (which gape most), when they do not open the artery to a greater extent than one fourth of its circumference, are also filled up and healed by an effusion of co- agulating lymph from their inflamed lips, so as to occasion but little or no obstruction to the canal of the artery. The utmost magnitude of a wound, which will still allow the continuity of the canal to be preserved, is difficult to be learned ; for, when the wound is large, but yet capable of being nnited, such a quantity of coagulating lymph is poured out, that the canal of the vessel at the wounded p;irt is more or less filled up by it. And when the wound is still larger, the vessel soon be- comes eitlier torn or ulcerated completely across, by • which its complete division is accomplished. Be'clard made a series of experiments upon dogs, whose arteries are said not to diifer much from those of man, though the impulse of the heart is not so strong, a?id the blood is more coagidable—two circumstances which should be duly considered in applying any of the inferences drawn from such experiments to the human subject. "In his first experiment he pricked the femoral artery with a needle ; the Wood flowed, but soon stopped. On removing the coagulum it again flowed, but in a smaller stream : it gradually ceased to bleed, and finally stopped, though the coagulum was again scraped off. On examination of the artery, no trace of the cicatrix was found. Several similar-experiments had the same result. In experiment four, he denuded the femoral artery, and made a longitudinal cut in it, from two to three lines. The lips of the wound were seen in contact during the diastole of the ventricle, and to be separated by a jet of blood during the systole. The blood was stopped by a coagulum; this was removed twice, and each time the blood flowed in a diminished stream, but the animal died. In experiment six he made the same incision, but did not detach the sheath from the artery, and the wound was left to nature. The hajmorrhage was not great ; there was an infiltra- tion of blood into the sheath, the size of an almond, which at the end of some days began to diminish, and disappeared in two or three weeks. On the limb being examined, fifteen days afterwards, a little white ridge was found adhering firmly to the artery and to the sheath, and completely closing the wound. In the interior there was a depressed longitudinal cicatrix of the breadth of the fifth of a line. The canal was regular and pervious through its whole extent. " In experiments 7, 8, 9, he made transverse in- cisions of ^, and f of the circumference of the fe- moral artery, separated from its sheath : all theani- '."''•Is died. In experiment 10, he made a transverse incision through -J of the circumference, without distuHnng the sheath. The bleeding was stopped by a coagulum, but, on the animal moving, it again tlowed, and tlie dog died. But, in the next experi- ment of the same kind, the blood was stopped by a coagulum, and the artery was closed by nearlv the same process as in the 6th experiment. So complete was the cure, at the end of six weeks, that the external part of the artery did not show any mark of a wound, and the cicatrix was scarcely observable on the interior surface. In his l-2th experiment, he cut one half of the circumference; the animal died; the same result followed in seve- ral similar experiments. In experiment 13, he cut f of the circumference : after the animal was much reduced, the bleeding ceased, and the arterv was closed in the same manner that it is when the section is complete. " From these experiments, he concludes that wounds of the arteries of dogs are cured by nature, when they are only occasioned by a puncture or a longitudinal incision, whether the artery be de- nuded or not; but, when arising from transverse incisions, they are always mortal if the artery be laid bare. If the artery retain its sheath, and the wound be ^ or f of the circumference, it may be cured by the efforts of nature; but it is aUvavs fatal if one half of it be cut through." (See Mtm. de la Soc. Med. d'Emulation, t. viii. p. 569.) The inferences respecting the curability of a wound, extending through ^ of the circumference, and the incurability of one that affects only one half of the circumference of the vessel, I should presume, must require further examination, notwithstanding an accidental faintness, produced by the sudden loss of blood in the first instance, may have been the means of saving one or two of the animals on which B^clard made his experiments. This author thinks it probable that a puncture, or longitudinal incision, in the artery of a man, may be cured by nature; but that a transverse wound never cicatrises properly, as the clot becomes dis- placed, or, if a cicatrix be formed, it will be dis- tended and torn. One fact, made out by the same professor, is, that when an artery is deprived of its sheath for an extent greater than its distance of retraction, the hsemorrhage is mortal. I have not looked over the original paper; but it appears to me that it would be desirable to know precisely the size of the arteries which the author is referring to, when he is making some of the above inferences. The size and condition of each animal the subject of experiment, should also be particularly specified; as experiments made on the femoral artery of a lady's lap-dog would surely not have the same re- sults as those performed on the same artery of a large terrier or Newfoundland dog. According to Dr. Jones, the lymph which fills up the wound of an artery, is poured out very freely both from the vessel and surrounding parts, and it accumulates around the artery, particularly over the wound, where it forms a more distinct tumor. The exposed surrounding parts at the same time inflame, and pour out coagulating lymph, with which the whole surface of the wound becomes covered, and which completely excludes the artery from the external wound. This lymph granulates, and the wound is filled up and healed in the usual manner, {^nc Jones, On Ilwrnorrhagc, p. 113, &c.) SuRGic.-VL Means of suppressing Hjemorrhage. It must be plain to every one who understands the course of the circulation, that pressure made on that portion of a wounded artery which adjoins