493 DISLOCATION, tion, as, for instance, that of looking at shining objects ; wlien the disoi'dcr continues after the removal of the irritation ; or, lastly, when the irritation cannot be well detected ; the surgeon is to endeavour, bj' means of nervous and soothing medicines, cither to remove the impression which the irritation has left upon the nerves, or to render the nerves insensible to the continuing irritation. The following remedies have proved useful in cases of diplopia : — Hartshorn dropped into the hand, and held before the eyes ; the external use of the spiritus vini crocatus ; warm bathing of the eye, particularly in a decoction of white poppy heads ; bathing the eye in cold collyria ; the internal administration of bark, valerian, small doses of ipecacuanha, oxide of zinc, and oleum cajepnti. (See Iilcltter''s Anfangsgr. der Wundarxn. b. iii. kap. 15.) According to Beer, the diplopia which is not an effect of the continuance of another disease after inflammation of the ej'e, but probably de- pends upon injury of the retina, caused hy such inflammation, usually diminishes, without the as- sistance of art, if the eye be not abused. {Lehre von den Augenki: b. ii. p. 32.) See A. Voter et J. C. Heinickei; Visus Vitia duo rarissima ; altenim duplicati, alterum dimidiati, &c. "Wittemb. 1723. (Haller, Diss ad Morb. t. i. p. 305.) .7. J. Klauhold, De Visu duplicato, 4to. Argent. 1746. Buchner, De Visione simplici et duplice, 4to. Argent, 1753. Elder, R^cherches Physiques sur la diverse R^frangibilite des rayons de lumiere; Mdm. de I'Acad. des Sciences, &'c. Berlin, p. 200.1754. Klinhe, De Diplopia, 4to. Gott. 1774. JB. Gooch, Cliir. Cases, &c. vol. ii. p. 42, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1792. Sir E. Home's Obs. on the Straight Muscles of the Eye, and the Structure of the Cornea, in Phil. Trans, for 1797. Keghellini,'Ltttexa sopra I'ofFera della cista In una Donna, &c. Svo. Venet, 1749; An instance of Diplopia from double pupil. Diet, des Sciences M^d. t. ix. p. 497. Wardrop, Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, vol. li. p. 216, &c. Svo. Lond. 1818. Robert G. Graves, M.D. on Double and Single Vision, in Dubl. Journ. of Med. Sciences, vol. i. p. 255. 8vo. 1832. Mackenzie, on Dis. of the Eye, ed. 4. Airy, in Trans, of Cambridge Phil. Society. DIRECTORj an'instrument in such common requisition that it is always contained in every pocket case. It ought to be made of silver, which qualifies it to be bent into any convenient shape. Its ordinary use is to direct the knife, and protect the pans underneath from its edge or point. The surgeon introduces the director under the parts which he means to divide, and then either cuts down, along the groove, with a common bistoury, or cuts upward with a narrow, curve-pointed bistoury, the point of which is turned upwards, and which he carefully introduces along the groove. This instrument and the probe-pointed bistoury are commonly employed for opening sinuses, for cutting fistulae in ano, and fistula; in other situa- tions, and for dilating the stricture in hernia. The French employ the director very commonly in that stage of operations for aneurism, in which the artery is to ^be separated from the adjacent vein, or nerve: the director is put under the artery, which the surgeon then examines carefully, and even presses upon, to ascertain wiiat effect is produced on the pulsations of the aneurism, and whether any of the consequences of pressing on a nerve are excited. If the experiment be satisfac- tory, the ligature is then introduced with an eye probe, wliich is passed along the groove of the director. DISLOCATION (from disloeo, to put out of place). Lumlion, When the articular sur- faces of the bones are forced out of their proper situation, the accident is termed a dislocation or lua'aiion. Sir Astley Cooper has justly remarked, that, of the various accidents which happen to the body, there are few which require more prompt assist- ance, or in which the reputation of the surgeon is more at stake, than cases of luxation ; for, if much time be lost prior to the attempt at reduc- tion, there is great additional difficulty in accom- plishing it, and it is often entirely incapable of being effected. If it remains unknown, and con- sequently unreduced, the patient becomes a living memorial of the surgeon's ignorance or inattention. Hence, this experienced surgeon forcibly incul- cates the careful study of anatomy; the want of an accurate knowledge of the structure of the joints being the chief cause of the many errors which happen in the diagnosis and treatment of dislocated bones. The following passage cannot be too deeply impressed upon the surgeon's mind: — " A considerable share of anatomical knowledge is required to detect the nature of these accidents, as well as to suggest the best means of reduction ; and it is much to be lamented that students neglect to inform themselves sufficiently of the structure of the joints. They often dissect the muscles of a limb with great neatness and minute- ness, and then throw it away, without any exa- mination of the ligaments, the knowledge of which, in a surgical point of view, is of infinitely greater importance ; and from hence arise the numerous errors of which they are guilty when they embark in the practice of their profession ; for, the injuries of the hip, elbow, and shoulder are scarcely to be detected but by those who possess accurate ana- tomical information." {Stirgical Essays, part. i. p. 2.) General Remarks on Dislocation. The most important points for consideration with respect to dislocations generally are: — 1. With respect to the articulation, in which these accidents take place; 2. The extent of the dislocation; 3. The direction in which the bone is displaced; 4. The length of time the displacement has continued ; 5. The circumstances wliich accompany it, and which make it simple or compound; and lastlj', 6. With respect to the causes of the accident. I. Every kind of joint is not equally liable to dislocation. [In articulations with contiguous sur- faces (spiarlhroses)—that is, in joints where there is no synovial cavity, but where ligamentous fibres pass from the entire surface of one bone to that of the other, as in the pelvic articulations, or in those between the bodies of the vertebrai—dislocations are most rarely met with.] Experience proves, for instance, that in the greater part of the vertebral column, luxations.ire almost impossible, unless there be also a fracture, the pieces of bone being articu- lated by extensive and numerous surfaces, varying in their form and direction, and so tied together by many powerful elastic means, that very little motion is allowed. Experience proves, also, that the strength of the articulations of the pelvic bones can scarcely be affected l)y enormous efforts, un- less these bones be simultaneously fractured. In articulations with contiguous surfaces (diar- throscs), the facility with wbicli dislocations liappcn,