S23 DISLOCATION. coptation, since this is the position of all others in which the head of the bone is likely to press upon the axillary plexus, and Malgaigne speaks of luuubness and other indications of paralysis as being more common in this dislocation than in others. Symptoms, referable to injury of the nerves, are probablj' owing to pressure in this dislocation, but to stretching or laceration in the subglenoid or subcoracoid varieties.] Dupuy- tren believed it to be seldom primary, but al- most always consecutive to the dislocation down- wards. (Cli7i. Cliir. t. iii. p. 102.) A dissection ty Mr. Crampton, however, leaves no doubt about the possibility of a dislocation forwards being some- times primary. {SeeBiM. Jour, of Med. Science, vol. iii. p. 47.) Dupuytren's own description of the manner in which the accident is usually caused, would render this fact sufficiently certain. If this dislocation commonly occur from a fall on the elbow, while separated from the side and inclined backwards {Dupuijlrcn, t. iii. p. 101), does not this imply that under these circumstances, the head of the bone would be propelled inwards, or forwards, so as to lacerate the capsule in that direction ? [It has been already explained tiiat this disloca- tion is often caused by direct force applied to the external and posterior part of the shoulder. Occasionally the head of the bone in passing forwards occasions a fracture of the coracoid process, as in a case related by Dr, H. M. Colles. (See DiiJilin Quart. Journ. vol. xx. 1855, p. 59.)] Dissection of the Dislocation forwards. — With respect to the state of the parts in the dislocation forwards, the head of the bone is thrown on the inner side of the neck of the scapula, be- tween it and the second and third ribs. In an old case dissected by Mr. Key, and preserved in the museum at St. Thomas's Hospital, the head of the bone was thrown on the neck and part of the venter of the scapula, near the edge of the glenoid cavity, and immediately under the notch of the superior costa. Nothing intervened between the head of the humerus and scapula, the subscapu- laris being partly raised from its attachment to the venter. The head was situated on the inner side of the coracoid process, and immediately under the edge of the clavicle, without the slightest con- nection with the ribs. Indeed, this must have been prevented by the situation of the subscapu- laris and serratus magnus between the thorax and humerus. The tendons of all the muscles, attached to the tubercles, and the tendon of the biceps, were perfect. The glenoid cavity was completely filled up by ligamentous structure, to which the tendons of the muscles attached to the greater tubercle adhered by means of bands, while in the substance of those tendons a sesamoid bone had been formed to prevent the effects of friction in the motions of tlio arm. The newly formed socket reached from the edge of the glenoid cavitv to about one-third across the venter ; and its sur- face tvn.i irrnr/ularty covered tuith cartihirje. The form of the head of the bone was considerably al- tered, and the cartilage in many places absorbed. There was a complete new capsular ligament. The pectoralis minor must have passed over the neck of the hone. (See Ch. Aston Key, in Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations, p. 400, cd. 4.) The folioiving account of a dissection of the dislocation forwards, in the recent state, was pub- lished by Mr. Crampton. It is remarkable, as being an instance ot primanj dislocation forwards, the head of tlie. hone having been thrown at once on the neck of the scapula, ivithout previously passing into the axilla. The dislocation was tmattended ivith the rupttire of a«y nn(S(;/e, or the separation of any tendon from its insertion into the bone. The head of the humerus was lodged on the cervix of the scapula at the root of the coracoid process, but extending nearly as far as the notch in the superior costa. It had passed out through a rent in the capsular ligament, over the upper edge of the tendon of the subscapularis, detaching this muscle from its connection with the venter of the scapula, and pushing its films dowmvards, so that they formed a curve, ichich partly embraced the neck of the humerus. The supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus were on the stretch, but not lacerated. The opening in the capsular ligament ivas produced by a separation of it from the interior side of the brim of tlte glenoid cavity from top to bottom, and bounded on the top by the tendon of the supra- spinatus, and at the bottom, by the inferior edge of the tendon of the subscapularis. It was of sufficient extent, but no more, to permit the head of the bone to return easily through it. The inferior part of the capsular ligament, corresponding to the axilla, was perfect. The great blood-vessels and nerves lay on the sternal side of the head of the humerus, the axis of which was scarcely a quarter of an inch higher than that of the glenoid cavity. (See Ph. Crampton in Dublin Journ. of Med. Science, vol. iii. p. 47.) The foregoing case settles the long-disputed question, whether the dislocation forwards is ever primary. [The dissection of an interesting case of disloca- tion forwards, combined with fracture of the cora- coid process, is described and figured by Dr. H. M. Colles. (See Dublin Quart. Journ. vol. xx" 1855, p. 59.) An account of the dissection of a recent dislo- cation forwards, drawn up by Mr. Curling, is given by Mr. Bransby Cooper. The subject of it was a man who was thrown down by a cask falling upon him, while at work in the East India Docks, and was so severely injured that he died whilst being carried to the London Hospital. " The right humerus was found to be dislocated forwards beneath the pectoral muscle; the fibres of the deltoid muscle were tense. On reflectino- the deltoid and pectoral muscles, the head of the humerus was seen situated in the inner side of the coracoid* process, immediately below the clavicle, beneath the pectoralis minor, pushing this muscle forwards, and separated from the serratus magnus by the axillary plexus of nerves. Blood was extravasated under the deltoid muscle' and in the loose cellular substance of the axilla! The nerves, with the artery and vein, were forced from their natural situation to the sternal side of the head of the humerus, which made considerable pressure upon them. The coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps were upon the stretch. The supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and subscapu- laris were completely detached from the tubercles of the humerus, and the teres minor tightly girted the neck of the bone, a few only of its fibres having been lacerated. The capsular ligament was entirely torn away from the whole circum- ference of the neck of the liumerns. In order to ascertain what impediment might exist to the replacement of the head of the humerus in its