U 3 cumscribed foci—3. Extreme lacerabiliiy — tU /uciliii/ n-it/i ivhich the cellular shcal/i may be re- moved I'rom the cii'ciilar fibrous coat. — 4. Tlie circular fibrous coat appears loosened and succu- lent ; admits readily of being drawn into fibres, and separated from the elastic coat; is commonly blanched, and sometimes coloured in different shades of red from the inner surface of the vessel through imbibition, although without any apparent injection. The lininy membrane of the vessel is loosened, and may be easily detached or torn ; its free surfiice is dull, and occasionally exhibits a felt-like or wrinkled appearance ; it is either pale or reddened by imbibition. —5. The vessel is fre- quently, although not always perceptibly, dilated; which is owing to the paralysis of the elastic layer of the cellular sheath and the circular- fibrous coat. A coagulum of blood, acting as a plug, is lodged in the canal of the vessel, whose bore is thus more or less completely filled and obstructed. — 6. The presence of a free product {exudation) covering the inner surface of the vessel in tlie form of a pseudo viembrane is, in most cases, proble- matical.—7. In rare cases arteritis gives rise to a partially or ^\\o\\y purulent exudation." {Rokitan- sky's Manual of Pathological Anatomy, translated by Dr. Day for the Sydenham Society, vol. iv. p. 254.)—It is to the above affections of the arteries that the antiphlogistic treatment is alone applicable. The remaining, and most frequently observed morbid changes, such as atheromatous, steatoma- tous, osseous, cretaceous, and fibrinous depositions, Rokitansky attributes to defects and alterations in the mode of nutrition of the internal and middle coats as obtained from the blood itself. Speaking of the atheromatous and osseous deposits so com- monly found in the arteries of old persons, he concludes — 1. " The deposit cannot be regarded as the product {exudation) of an inflammation of the arteries. The chronic inflammation of the cellular sheath of the diseased vessel is almost always a secondary consecutive appearance, which associates itself with the already established deposit. 2. 77(6 deposit is an endogenous product derived from the blood, and for the most part from the fihrine of the arterial blood. — 3. Its formation demonstrates the pre-existence of a peculiar crasis if the blood, which is intrinsically arterial, although at the present time we are wholly ignorant of the cha- racter of the peculiarity on which this depends. We must regard the old dogmatic view which sought the cause of the affection in arthritis, as an opinion deficient in proof.—4. In proportion to the extent of the disease of Lite arteries, so much less hkely is it to be ciimbined tcith tuberculosis ; and this disease undoubtedly is in part the cause of that immunity against tuberculosis which we con- stantly notice in large aneurisms of the trunk of the aorta. — fi. The deposit and its metamnrphoses present numerous highly important analogies, that have hitherto been wholly ncjilected.. For tlie sake of brevity, we will here notice oidy the most impor- tant, viz. the deposit also occiiniiig umler certain conditions in the veins, the phlebolites, &c." H)u cit. p. 272.) ^ ' ■ These latter morbid changes,,incident fiir the most part to that advanced period of life in which the nutrition of the body becomes impaired, manifest no recognisable symptoms until the arterial tubes are damaged to an extent to interfere with their mechanical and vital functions of con- ASPIIYXIA. 293 taining and conveying the arterial blood, and when it is probably too late to effect much benefi- cial change either in the crasis of the blood itself, or in the altered nutrition of the inner and middle coats of the arteries as derived from the blood. Little more can be done in the treatment of these altered states of nutrition, either in a curative or preventive point of view, beyond regulating and attending to the quantity and quality of the blood circulating in the vessels. It appears probable that a mild, unstimulating diet, so regulated as to obviate habitual repletion during adult life, might retard, if it could not entirely prevent the occurrence of these inevitable changes of structure, which sooner or later invade and deteriorate the tissues of our vital organs.] ASCITES (S(T/aT)js from oir/foj, a bottle). Ab- dominal Dropsy, especially that which consists of an effusion of serous fluid in the cavity of the peritoneum. (See Paracentesis Abdominis.) ASPHYXIA (from a privative of, and crtpv^Tj, the pulse). Cessation of the action of the heart from the interruption of respiration, or rather of the effect produced by that function on the blood. Asphyxia may also be defined to be a suspension of the phenomena of respiration, occurring pri- ruarily, and followed by that of all the other func- tions, and frequently by death. [The term asphyxia, which signifies literally want of pulse, is objectionable, and likely to lead to erroneous views of the nature of the condition which It IS employed to denote. That condition, from whatever cause it may arise, results from the non-arterialisation of venous blood, and the cessation of the pulse only takes place as a consequence of the mterruption of the function of respiration. The action of the heart, instead of being primarily atfected, is in reality the last of the vital functions which gives way. The incorrectness of this desig. nation has been strongly insisted upon by Dr VVatson who adopts the term aima:a, or privation of breath, as more justly expressive of the condition to which the term asphyxia is commonly given by authors. (See Lectures on Practice 'of Physic vol. 1. p. CI.) The word asphyxia, however, has been so generally in use, that it appears necessary still to retain it ; but it should be understood that it is used in an arbitrary sense, and without reference to its etymological signification.] The general causes of asphyxia may be arranged under three principal heads. 1. Asphyxia from deficiency of air. 2. From the air being unfit for respiration, yet not producing any deleterious effect on the economy, 3. From the inspiration of some gas which IS deleterious. As M. Duvergie rinhtlv observes, however, the suspension of functions or the mode of death in the last case, is venr different from what is exemplified in the two first • because It IS, in fact, a kind of poisoning, brouglit'about by the action ol a delet,.r,ous principle, either on the nervous Kysteni, or the blood, and the individual may perish, tliougli he is actually respiring air {Duvergie, in Diet, de Med. cl dc Chir. Prat art Asphyxie.) ' • Cases of Asphyxia admit of a classification, first Mito those ,1, which there is primarily a stoppage of thti mechanical phenomena of respiration : and xecondly, into others in which the chrmieal phe- nomena are iinmarily interrupted. As examples of the first mode of asphyxia may DC mentioned those cases in which the muscles of