723 FRACTURE. 3 A 2 iiig and effusion into the joint, it will be better not to apply any apparatus for a few days; but to keep the arm at perfect rest upon a pillow, and to apply leeches and evaporating lotions until the inllannnation has subsided.] Desault recommends the front and back splints to be flexible at their middle part, which should be applied to the bend of the arm and elbow. The old writers considered the communication of a fracture with a joint a fatal kind of complica- tion. Swelling and inflammation of the adjacent parts; continuance of pain after the reduction ; large abscesses; even mortification of the softer parts, and caries of the bones, are, according to such authors, the almost inevitable consequences of these fractures, and ankylosis the most favourable termination. Pare, Petit, Heister, Duverney, all give this exaggerated picture. However, the ex- perience of these and other fractures into joints, amply prove that this representation is magnified beyond truth. 2. [Fracture of the internal condyle.—The in- ternal condyle consists of an articular and a non- articular portion, to which the terms trochlea and epitrochlea are now frequently applied. The frac- ture may merely implicate the non-articular pro- minence or epitrochlea, or the whole of the condyle with its trochlear surface may be broken off ob- liquely from the rest of the bone. Sir A. Cooper speaks of the latter fracture as of frequent occurrence, while Malgaigne on the other hand considers it to be extremely rare, and states that he has never himself met with an in- stance. The French surgeon, however, records several examples of the fracture in which the epitrochlea alone is broken off. According to Sir A. Cooper, the symptoms are the following : the ulna appears dislocated because it projects behind the humerus with the broken condyle when the arm is extended ; but it resumes its natural situation on bending the arm. By grasping the condyles, and bending and extending the forearm, a crepitus is perceived at the internal condyle. When the arm is extended, the lower end of the humerus {i.e. the external condyle) advances upon the ulna so as to be felt at the anterior part of the joint. (Oh Dislocations, S)-c. p. 466.) Fracture by which the epitrochlea alone is broken off, most commonly happens in children, in whom it may be an epiphysary disjunction, instead of a fracture, which takes place, since this pro- cess is ossified separately, and is not joined to the rest of the bone till towards adult age. It may be caused by a fall or a blow on the part itself, or sometimes as some have supposed by the action of the muscles arising from it. These muscles after the fracture will also tend to dis- place the detached fragment downwards and for- wards towards the forearm. The detached process may generally be felt, unless the swelling be very great, and on moving it crepitus will prnliahly lie obtained. The patient holds his arm semiflexed, and his hand pronated, and pain is produced in both these fractures if supination or extension is attempted. The Ireaiment of both these fractures of the in- ternal condyle consists in applying a roller round the joint, to maintain the broken piece in apposi- tion with the rest of the bone ; in keeping the limb bent at a right angle, and supporting it in n sling. When the epitrochlea alone is broken off, the hand should at the same time be pronated and the fingers flexed, in order that the muscles arising from the small detached fragment may be relaxed as completely as possible. In the more extensive fracture of the condyle, if there be much tendency to displacement backwards of the ulna, it may be advisable to apply splints in the way recommended for the fracture above the condyles.] 3. [Fracture of the exter7ial condyle, as of the internal, may involve a larger or smaller portion of the bone. The nnn-articular prominence (some- times called epicondyle) may be broken off alone, 01- the fracture may extend into the elbow-joint, and detach more or less of the articular surface for the radius ; or it may extend beyond it so as to include a portion of the trochlear surface of the in- ternal condyle. Fracture of the non-articular por- tion alone, is not so likely to happen in the external as in the internal condyle, on account of its slighter p.-ojection. The arm is semiflexed, there is swelling on the outer side of the elbow ; the movements of the joint are painful ; crepitus is produced when the radius is rotated, and if the swelling be not very great the detached condyle may be felt. According to Sir A. Cooper, if the portion of the fractured condyle be large, it is drawn a little backwards and carries the radius with it, but if it be small, this circumstance does not occur. {On Dislocations, ^c. p. 467.) M. Mal- gaigne has remarked, that simultaneously with this displacement backwards, the upper extremity of the detached fragment is sometimes tilted forwards; and also that sometimes it is separated in the lateral direction from the rest of the bone, so as to cause a sensible increase in the breadth of the elbow-joint. He considers this fracture to be one of the most frequent in the vicinity of the elbow. Desault speaks of one case in which he found the limb always retained in the supine position. Treatment.—Sir A. Cooper recommends a roller round the joint, which will prevent lateral dis- placement, and afterwards the same rectangular splint used for the fracture above the condyles ; {On Dislocations, ^c. p. 468) or a rectangular splint may be applied laterally on the outer side of the arm and forearm. It will be well to retain the hand in the supine position, with the fingers not much flexed, so as to relax the supinators and extensors which take origin from the external condyle. This fracture docs not always unite by bone. Sir A. Cooper speaks of two cases in which the union was ligamentous ; in one of them the frac- ture was intracapsular, only a small portion of the condyle being obliquely split off M. Malgaigne also has met with cases of fibrous union, and ho represents one in which a proper false joint had bucn formed surrounded by an external fibrous capsule. {Traitc des Fract. ^c, t. i. p. 658.)] Fracturbs op the Forearm. The forearm is more frequently broken than the arm, because external force operates more directly upon it than upon the latter part, espe- cially in falls on the hand, which are frequent ac- cidents. The forearm is composed of two bones the ulna and the radius. The last is much more liable to fractures than the first, because it is articulated with the hand by a large surface, and all the shocks received by the latter part are communicated to it. The situation of it also more