Desault gives the case of a laundress, who dis- located the lower end of the ulna hackvvarda, by a powerful pronation of her hand in twisting a wet sheet; and another in a child, five years old, in whom the luxation was produced by traction upon the lower part of the fore-arm, which was turned forcibly in the direction of pronation. M. Mal- gaigne refers to several others in which the same cause came into operation.] The symptoms are, constant pronation of the fore-arm; an inability to perform supination, and great pain on its being attempted; tlievo is an unusual projection at the back of the joint, in consequence of the protrusion of the head of the ulna through the capsule, and a corresponding de- pression anteriorly; the position of the radius is more forward than natural; there is constant ad- duction of the thumb, which is almost always extended, and a half-bent state of the fore-arm. [M. Malgaigne gives a caution against mistaking this injury for incomplete dislocation of the upper end of the radius backwards, since botli accidents are producible by forced pronation, and they may be the more easily confounded, since they both impress the same attitude upon the limb. {Trccite des Fract. ^c. t. ii. p. C86.)] Recbiction.—According to Desault, in the re- duction of the dislocation of the ulna backwards, or, as he described it, of the radius forwards, an assistant is to take hold of the elbow and raise the arm a little from the body, while another is to support the hand and fingers. The surgeon is to take hold of the end of the fore-arm with both his hands; one applied to the inside, the other to the outside, in such a manner that the two thumbs meet each other in front of the limb, between the ulna and radius, while the fin- gers are applied to the back of the wrist. He is then to endeavour to separate the two bones from each other, pushing the radius backwards and out- wards, while the ulna is held in its proper place. At the same time, the assistant, holding the hand, should try to bring it into a state of supination, and consequently the radius, which is its support. Thus pushed, in the direction contrary to that of the dislocation, by two powers, the radius is moved outward and the ulna returns into the opening of the capsule, and into its articular cavity. Sir A. Cooper reduces a dislocation of the lower end of tlie ulna backward3,t,by pressing the bono forwards, and maintains the reduction witli splints, well padded, and a compress of leather over the end of the ulna. {On Dislocations, p. 506.) Dislocalion fonuards.—This is more rarely mot with than the case last described; for in the course of a long experience, Dupuytren had seen but two instances of it. One happened to an officer of the gendarmerie, whose horse fell with him, and the right fore-arm was injured between the horse's iiead iind the ground. On presenting liimBcif at the Hotel-Dieu, about thirty-four hours after the accident, the fore-arm appeared very much swollen; the hand was in the mid-state between pronation and supination; there was an unusual projection of the skin at the middle of the front of the wrist, while, at its inner part, tho styloid process was not perceptible; and behind, instead of tho custo- mary prominence, formed by the head of the ulna, there was a depression. When the ulna was traced from the elbow to the hand, the direction of it was felt to be forwards and outwards, crossing ATION. 543 over and above the lower end of the radius. As the latter bone continued free from displacement, the carpus did not project either backwards or for- wards. No crepitus was distinguishable, and the prone and supine movements of the hand were entirely obstructed. {Dupuyirm, Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 503—506.) Sir Astley Cooper has not recorded any example of this rare dislocation of the end of the ulna forwards, which never presented itself to Desault but once, and that was in the dead body of a man, both of whose arms were dislocated, and of whom no particulars could be learnt. The end of the ulna was placed in front of the scaphoid cavity of the radius, and in contact with the os pisiforme, to which it was connected by a capsular ligament. {BoTjer, Mai Chir. t. iv. p. 249.) The latter writer has also recorded one instance of the accident, produced by violent supination of the wrist. (Vol. cit. p. 253.)—[M. Malgaigne refers to several others, apparently referable to the same cause— namely, excessive supination. (Traits des Fract. t. ii. p. 687.) Reduction.—In the dislocation of the lower end of the ulna forwards, the same proceedings which were recommended for the dislocation backwards, executed in the opposite direction, would ac- complish the reduction. (See (Etivres Chir. de Desault, t. i.) In one example of this very rare accident, which was under Dupuytren, counter-extension with the elbow bent to a right angle over a folded cloth, and extension, made from the wist itself, failed to reduce the bone; but, as soon as Dupuytren made extension from the hand, and pressed this part strongly outwards, while, with both his thumbs, he propelled the ulna inwards and backwards, the reduction was effected. [Dupuijtrcn, Clin. Chir, t. iv. p. 607). [It should be remembered that the fracture of the lower end of the radius is very commonly attended with a projection of the lower end of the ulna on the front and inner side of the wrist. The symptoms of the fracture however, are in this case so well marked that there is little risk of mistaking it for one of simple dislocation.] A protrusion of the small end of the ulna through the skin forwards must be excessively rare, owing to the strength of the ligaments, and the thickness of the integuments themselves, in this direction; but, in the dislocation backwards, the ligaments make less resistance, and the skin is almost close to the bone, so that, in this case, the protrusion is more likely to happen. If the dislocation were com- pound, ought the end of the bone to be sawn ofij or amputation performed ? Dupuytren is in favour of immediately reducing the end of tho ulna, and making free incisions for tho relief of tho tension and strangulation likely to ensue, Ho would not saw off tho end of the ulna—much less would he ainputato. (Clin. Chir. t. iv. p, 510.) The free incisions, I think, would bo early enough when the confinement of the infiamed parts by the fascia had actually come on, and threatened mischievous consequences. Dislocations oi- the Wiust. Tho carpal bones aro usually described as being capable of being luxated from the lower end of tho radius forwards or l)ack wards, inwards or outwards. The case backwards, which has been stated to be