CATARACT dressing, is that formed of the meal of linseed ; it is made at once, and when applied it keeps always in one mass. " The kind of wound to which the above appli- cation is best adapted, is one made in a sound part, which we intend shall heal by granulation The same application is equally proper when parts are deprived of life, and consequently will slough. It is therefore the very best dressing for a gunshot wound, and probably for most lacerated ivounds ; for lint, applied to a part that is to throw off a slozic/h, will often be retained till that slough separated, which will be for eisht, ten, or "more days." CATAPLASMA PLUMBI DIACETATIS ^ Liquoris Plamhi Diacetatis, 5 j. Aqtim des iillatce, ^ xvj. Micce panis q. s. — Misce. Prac- titioners, who place much confidence in the virtues of lead, externally applied, often use this poultice either in a warm or cold state. [CATAPLASMA SODiE CPILORINAT/E. Tliis is an excellent stimulant and antiseptic poul tice for sloughing sores. It is ordered in the Ph. Lond. 1851, to be made as follows : Aquce fer reniis f ^ Pu^v. Lini, 3 ivss. Liquoris Sodce cMorinatce f. 3 'j- -A-dd the linseed gradually to the water, then mis in the chlorinated soda.] CATARACT. {Fmm KaTo-paffcrw, to confound or disturb ; because the disease confounds or destrojrs vision. Vhavic<au.a-ini6xvi-i-a.. Gutlaopaca. Stijrusio. Der Grcme Staar.) Is usually defined to be a dnlness or impediment of sight, produced by opacity of the crystalline lens or its capsule. A cataract is also described as a partial or general opacity of the crystalline lens, or of its capsule, with a corresponding diminution of sight. " The most striking circumstances ob- servable in cataract (says Mr. Lawrence), are an opaque body placed behind, or even filling up the pupil, and the impaired state of vision which is the result of that change. In both these respects it agrees, in its incipient stage, witli glaucoma and some forms of amaurosis; but as the treatment is essentially different in these several affections, it is necessarj' to discriminate them accurately. In incipient cataract, we can do little or nothing; we must wait until the opacity has become complete before we perform an operation ; but active mea- sures must be resorted to in the earliest stage of amaurosis: if we should leave the case to itself under the supposition of its being cataract, loss of sight would be inevitable and irremediable." (See Lawrence, On Dis. of the Eye, p. 397.) Hippocrates and the imcient Greeks described cataract as a disease of the crystalline lens, un- der the name of ^Acty/ctu/^o; but no sooner had Galen promulgated the doctrine of the lens being the immediate organ of sight, than the correct opinion of the ancient founder of medicine began to decline, and, for many years afterwards, had no in- fluence in practice. In fact, the seat of cataract was entirely forgotten till about 165U, when first Lnsnier, and, afterwards Borel, Bonctus, Bicgnj'-, Geoffroi, &c. revived the trutli, which had been so long extinct; and they and a few others believed that tlie disease was situated in the crystalline lens. The bulk of practitioners, however, remained ignorant of this fact even as late as the beginning of the eighteenth century, when the several publica- tions of Miiitre-,Ian, Biisseau, St. Ives, and Ileister, ombincd to render the truth universally known. In 1708, M. Mdry, who had hitherto joined in the belief that cataract was not a disease of the lens, communicated to the Academy of Sciences a memon-, in which he acknowledges the correct- ness of the statement made by Brisseau and Maitre- Jan, that vision can take place without the assist- ance of the crystalline lens ; and he recommended a clergyman who had a cataract to have the lens ex- tracted, which was successfully done by M. Petit. A cataract, even in its highest degree, does not produce complete blindness. For the most part, its formation takes place slowly; the cases in which^ it originates quickly being but few, and those in which it is suddenly produced in a com- plete form still more unusual. A well-marked case is, however, related by Dr. Wendelstrom, in the American Journal of Medical Science, Auffust 1829, p. 502. When a cataract is slowly formed : 1. All ob- jects, especially white ones, seem to the patient to be covered by a haze or cloud, which is generallj' perceived before any opacity is visible in the pupil. 2. The decline of vision bears an exact proportion to the increasing opacity distin- guishable behind the pupil. 3. In most cases, the opacity is first discerned behind the pupil, most plainly also at the central point; the instances in which it first presents itself at the edge of the pupil being less frequent. 4. In ej^es with a light- coloured iris, the greater progress a cataract makes the more clearly can one perceive at the edge of the pupil a blackish ring, which partly arises from the shadow of the iris falling on the cataract, but chiefly from the dark-coloured pupillary edge of the iris, which, in a clear pupil, cannot be seen, but now that a greyish surface lies behind it, is rendered very manifest. This blackish ring is per- fectly evident in cases of soft cataracts, and arises from the back of the pupillary edge of the iris being pushed forward by the size of the lens. But if the dilatation be increased to its full extent bj' the application of belladonna, an internal blacker circle will be seen to surround the turbid part behind the iris, and the patient sees better for a short time. {Gidhrie''s Operative Surgeri/ of the Eye, p. 197.) 5. As a cataract generally begins at the central point behind the pupil, such objects as are placed directly in front of the eye are worst seen, even in the early stage of the disease ; but those which are laterally placed, especially when the light is not too strong, and of course the pupil a good deal dilated, can yet be seen tolerably well. Hence, when the oiiacitj-, at the central point behind the pupil, is at all considerable, the patient s completel}' blind in a strong light, while, oa the contraiy, in a moderately dark room, a degree of aion is j-et enjoyed. When the opacity is not far advanced, the eyesight may be improved by the patient's turning his back to the light. Bella- donna, by increasing the size of the pupil, is of service, and by means of if, " the patient may be conducted, with comparative comfort, through that stage of the disease which intervenes between a oderate defect of vision and the period of the oper- ation. I know (contin\u-s Mr. ISIiddlemore) that some surgeons object to its continued use: they say, that ils prolonged employment induces a torpid state of the retina, the susceptibility of which be- comes permanently diminished under its influence; but although it has been used under my observ- ation in these and other cases very extensively