AMPUTATION. 124 On examining these statistics, the first striking fact is, that although the per centnge varies greatly ill different hospitals and in dill'erent localities, the mortality after all amputations, calculated from a total of more than 5000 cases, is as high as 33""25 per cent., or one in every three of the patients submitted to the operation. So fatal a result was scarcely suspected, till Mr. Benjamin Phillips drew the attention of the profession to the subject in 183fJ. The next fact clearly established, is the greater mortality after amputations performed for injury than after those performed for disease. This, also, would not at iirst sight appear probable ; the operations for injury being for the most part done on robust, healthy individ\ials, and those for disease on persons debilitated by long continued pain and suppuration. The difference appears to depend in a great measure on the shock which the injury has iullicted on the system, since the deaths which take place during the first three days after the operation are much more numerous in the am- putations for injury than in those for disease. But in addition to this cause, it has been found that the mortality fi'om secondary morbid processes, such as iiiflammation of internal organs, erysipelas, phlebitis, pyfemia, &c., is also greater in the one class than in the other. The occuirence of phle- bitis was found, by Mr. James, in the Devon and Exeter Hospital, to be confined almost entirely to the primary amputations for injury. The oc- currence of erysipelatous inflammations and of pyeemia will, no doubt, always vary greatly in different institutions ; it will be less frequent in hospitals situated in the agricultural districts than in the more crowded institutions and vitiated at- mosphere of a manufacturing town. Mr. James thinks that the nature of the injury will have a material influence on the result, and that those cases will be most fatal which involve the greatest degree of crush or laceration, and this more es- pecially in the lower extremities, partly from the larger mass disorganised, partly from the greater inability of the system to repair the injmy, the impression produced by which does not pass away even when the injured part is completely re- moved. (See Trans. o/Prov. Med. ^ss. vol. xvn. luoO, p. 8J.) The same author has pointed out that the mortality varies also in the operations for disease, being least in the chronic diseases of bones and joints, greatest in cases of old ulcers, in acute gangrene, and acute suppurative inflammations. (Op. cit. vol. xviii. 1851, p. 332.) Exhaustion and hectic, and the supervention of tubercular disease at a later period are, perhaps, the most frequent causes of death after amputations disease ; but these have but little share in mortality after amputations for injury. The next point is the comparison between primary and secondary operations for injury, the table which has been given, the advantage will be seen to be in favour of the former, to the amount of IG per cent.—the mortality being 30 per cent, in primary and 46 per cent, in secondary operations. This disproportion is, doubtless, partly owing to the circumstance that the intermediary or compulsory operations are in most instances recorded with the secondary, and the apparent mortality of these latter is thereby very considerably increased. If this source of fallacy were removed, there is reason to believe that in civil practice for the the In operations performed when the true secondary period has arrived (that is, when the inflammatory syratoms have subsided, and the suppurative stage is fully established,) are but little, if at all, more fatal than primary. Secondary amputations are seldom fatal from shock, and they are therefore found to be most successful, as compared with primarj', in the larger portions of the limbs, where tlie effects of the shock are found to operate most prejudicially in primary operations. In amputa- tions of the thigh, it will be seen that the pro- portion of mortality is reversed, and is considerably in favour of secondary instead of primary opera- ation. This remark applies to the military as well as to the civil cases. The success of secondary amputation, however, should not be considered as an argument in favour of delayed operation ; since, as has been before explained, many will die before the favourable period arrives, and many others will undergo am- putation as a matter of necessity in the inter- mediary period, and under the most unfavourable circumstances. The table, therefore, although it may exaggerate the mortality after secondary am- putations properly so called, most probably does not at all exaggerate the advanlayc to be gained from immediate operation in all cases where there is no hope for tlie ultimate preservation of the limb. Primary amputations, it will be observed, have been more successful in military than in civil practice : while oir the other hand, civil surgeons have succeeded somewhat better than military with their secondary operations. Some reasons for the greater success of primary amputation in militarj'- surgery have already been given (cinle p. 49); but another has been suggested by Mr. James, in the fact that a large number of the military operations are performed for " compound fractures from mus- ketry, ia which the injury is by no means equal in extent, and consequently in degree of shock to that which occurs in those accidents which in civil practice are more generally submitted to am- putation." On the other hand, the resources at the command of the military surgeon are often in- sufficient for the satisfactory treatment of compound fractures, and therefore when the secondary period arrives, the patients are in a less favourable con- dition for operation than those which have been treated in a civil hospital. The mortality increases in a nearly direct ratio with the bidk of the part removed—rising from 10 per cent, in the fore-arm to 41 per cent, in the thigh, and 65 per cent, at the hip-joint. It is to be regretted that suflicient data do not exist for estimating the mortality in the upper as compared with the lower third of the thigh, and of the upper with the lower third of the leg. Another circumstance deserving of attention is, that the disproportion in the mortality of amputations for iniury and those for disease is greater according to the size of the part removed. The advantage on the side of disease is as much as 30 per cent, m the thigh ; but is not more thmi 2 per cent, m the arm ; while in the fore-arm the proportion is reversed, and the advantage is slightly on the side of amputations for injury. By making a similai comparison of primary with secondary operations at different levels, it will be seen that the ad- vantage is greatly on the side of P""''"'^'" "f"f"" tion, in the case of the fore-arm and a^'/'f' difference becomes less striking m the loR, ana