CATARACT Tho adhesion of tlie capsule of the lens to the uvea (synechia posterior) is generally obvious enough ; lor the pupillary margin of the iris is not completely cuxular, and is more angular the stronger the light is. The cataract lies close to the uvea and IS very white. Th^otions of the iris are more or less obstructed, and when the adhesion is exten- sive are quite prevented. The perception of light js mdistinct, often very faint, and sometimes en- tirely lost, lor the preternatural adhesion is always the consequence of previous internal ophthalray which, besides occasioning opacity of the lens and Its capsule, readily produces other serious effects upon the retina, the choroid coat, and vitreous humour, perfectly adequate to account for the loss of sight, and the incapacity of distinguishing the rays of light. When the anterior layer of the capsule is adherent only at a single point to the uvea, the extent of the adhesion may be readily ascertained by artificially dilating the pupil, and the information thus obtained will have great weight in the selection of a method of operating. Some other local complications of cataract are so obvious that they cannot fail to be understood- as, for instance, its combination with an adhesion of the ins to the cornea {synechia anterior), with closure of the pupil, unattended by any adhesion of the uvea to the anterior capsule of the lens (s?/- mcha posterior); the complications with atrophy hydrophthalmia, cirsophthalmia specks and scars upon the cornea, pterygium, and various forms of ophthalmj% According to Beer, tie combination of cataract with glaucoma is also readily made out by any body who has once seen the case ; for the cataract always presents a greenish and sometimes quite a sea-green colour; it is of a prodigious size, so as to project through the pupil towards the cornea ; the colour of the iris is more or less changed, in the same manner as after iritis ; the iris is perfectly motionless ; the pupil very much expanded and drawn into angles, for the most part towards (he canthi; the lesser circle of the iris is nowhere visible, the light cannot be perceived, though the blinded patient is frequently conscious of false luminous appearances within the eye (photopsia) ; and lastly, the case is invariably accompanied with more or less of a varicose state of the blood-vessels of the eye. The origin of this sort of cataract is constantly attended with severe obstinate neuralgia of the brow and head. There are two other local complications which are much more difficult to learn before an operation. The first is a cataract combined with a dissolution of the vitreous humour {si/ncliysis), the diagnosis of which, indeed, when the affection prevails in a con- siderable degree, is tolerably easy, as the cataract trembles, and the iris always swings backwards and forwards upon the slightest motion of the eye- ball ; the globe itself is somewhat affected with atrophy ; the eye is quite spoiled, and feels flaccid and unresisting ; the sclerotica, immediately around the cornea, is bluish as in infants, and the per- ception of light is uncertain. On the other hand, when the synchysis is not far advanced, the only symptoms are a suspicious softness of the eyeball, and a vibration of the iris when the eye is suddenly or violently moved. v.J^i" <?"'7 <=°'npl''^fition of cataract, sometimes vcly difiicuU to detect previously to an operation, >s amaurosis. When, indeed, tho pupil s extra- ordinarily large, the iris nearly or quite motionless, and the patient cannot distinguish day from night and of course not the least glimmei of light, no , great powers of divination are required to nred t with certainty that no operation will restore the bnfft '"'"''^ "'^"^'^^'^^ '=«taract but by the existing amaurosis. On the other hand when the motions of the iris are nearly as free as m the natural state, the pupil as small as it usually IS in a given degree of light, the patient capable of judging accurately of the strength of the light, and yet the cataract conjoined with amaurosis, which with the exception of the faculty of perceiving the light, completely impedes vision, it is then only by a careful_ inquiry into the history of disease that certain circumstances attending the origin of the cataract, and indicating in some measure the preva- lence of amaurosis, can be traced. Sometimes, in consequence of one eye being affected with amau- rosis, and not with cataract, a reasonable suspicion may be entertained that the eye with cataract is also amaurotic ; yet, says Beer, in such a case, nothing certain can be known before an operation is done. Causes, Pkognosis, &c Old age may be regarded as one of the predis- posing causes of cataract, inasmuch as the disease is most frequent in advanced life. Of 500 ca- taract patients treated by Dr. Fabini, 2Ga were ' males and 232 females. The ages of these indi- viduals were as follows: — From 1 to 10 years 14 11 to 20 ]6 21 to 30 la 31 to 40 18 41 to SO 51 51 to 60 102 61 to 70 172 71 and upAvards. 109 500 (See Maclmnzie, On Bis. of ilio Eye, p. 679, and Gr'dfe u?id Walther's Journ. vol. xiv. p. 445. Berlin, 1830.) This table may afford a tolerably correct view of the comparative frequency of cataract at different ages. It was the doctrine of Wcnzel that persons, much exposed to strong fires, and above the age of forty, were more liable to catai-acts than other individuals. Beer assents to the general correctness of the opinion that old age is conducive to cat;iracts, since the disease is most frequently observed in old persons. Yet, says he, that age, nay, n very great age, cannot be deemed a regular cause of cataract, is clear- from the circiuustance of many very old, and even decrepit, individuals being able, with the aid of spectacles, to read the smallest print; and it would seem that other causes besides old age are essential to the production of cataracts; as, for instance, immoderate exertion of tho eye during youth, particularly in such employments as expose the organ to a strong reflected light, {Lchre von den Auffciib: b. ii. p. 325.) And, ac- cording to the same author, one of the most im- portant, though least noticed, causes promoting the formation of cataract, is allowing a strong light suddenly to enter the eyes of a ncn--born or very young delicate infant, the consequence of which is that cataracts form more or less quickly with 'nflamniation of the capsule and lens, or remain