280 ARSENIC. w.ithin the pericardium, where the vessel is only covered by a thin layer reflected from this mem- hranous hag. Walther has recorded one example of this kind, and Morgagni several others. A si- milar case is related by Scarpa. Several speci- mens are contained in the museums of the London Hospitals. (See Haller, Dispui. Chir. tome v. ; Ada Medic. Berlin, vol. viii. p. 86; Morqagni De Sed. ct Causis Morh. Epist. xxvi. art. 7, 1 7, 21; Epist xxvii. art. 28; Scat-pa, On Aneurism, transl. hy Wishart, p. 81. Also Hodgson, On the Diseases of Arteries and Veins.') Steatomatous Tumors op the Aorta, Two steatomatous tumors were noticed by Stenzel in the body of a male subject. They were situated in the substance of the membranes of the aorta, immediately below its arch. Not- withstanding these swellings had rendered the vessel almost impervious, the man had the appear- ance of strength, and cf having been well nourished. IIcBC corpora fire cor magnitudine acquabant ut omnem propemodum exeunti e sinisiri cordis ilialamo sanguini spatittm prcBcluderent. De Steatomatibus in principio arterife aortoe, &c. Wittemb. 1723. This is another striking fact, illustrating th-e great powerof the inosculations to carry on the circulation. Compression op the Aorta, In order to restrain haemorrhage from the inferior half of the body, more especially from the uterus, has been warmly advocated, and in thin persons seems calculated to be beneficial. (See Crosse, Pro- vincial Med. and Surgical Trans, vol. v.) I have mentioned the adoption of this plan by Sir Astley Cooper, in the case where he opened the aneurismal sac, previously to putting a ligature on the aorta. APHjERESIS (from a<paipit», to remove). A term formerly used in the schools of surgery to signify that part of surgery which relates to the removal of any portion of the body. APONEUROSIS. Matter often collects under aponeuroses, particularly under those which cover the muscles of the thigh, leg, and forearm. Ab- scesses are also sometimes met with under the tem- poral, the palmar, and the plantar fasciee; in the tendinous thecas, which include the flexor tendons of the fingers ; and, occasionally, also in the apo- neurotic sheath, in which the rectus abdominis muscle is situated. One particular effect of an aponeurosis, or fascia, lying between a collection of matter and the skin, is materially to retard the progress of the pus to- wards the surface of the body. Hence, if the case be allowed to take its own course, the quantity of matter increases; the pus spreads extensively under the aponeurosis in every possible direction ; sepa- rates the muscles from such fascia, and the mus- cles from each other ; and the abscess does not burst till a vast deal of mischief has been produced, together with more or less sloughing of the fascia, tendons, &c. These circumstances caimot happen without a considerable degree of constitutional disturbance, and a permanent loss of the use of certain muscles. Even when a spontaneous open- ing is formed, and some of the matter escapes, it is often only a very imperfect discharge ; for the aperture generally occurs, not in a depending situ- ation, nor over the main collection of pus, but at a part where the aponeurosis is thinnest, and con- sequently where the matter has the least resistance to overcome in getting to the surface of the body. In all such cases, the chief indication is to make an early and a depending opening with a lancet, so as to prevent the extension of the abscess, and to let the matter escape as fast as it is formed. If a spontaneous opening should have occurred in an unfavourable place, a new aperture must be made in a proper situation, or if the former should be sufficiently depending and near the principal accu- mulation of matter, but too small, it must be ren- dered larger with a curved histoury and a director. Whenever any black dead pieces of fascia, or tendons, present themselves at the opening, they must be taken hold of with a pair of forceps, and 6xtr3.ct6d> APPAR.^TUS MINOR ; APPARATUS MAJOR ; APPARATUS ALTUS. Three ways of cutting for the stone. (See Lithotomy.) AQUA PICIS LIQUIDiE. DM. Take of tar two pints ; water a gallon. Mix them with a wooden rod for a quarter of an hour, and after the tar has subsided, let the liquor be strained, and kept in well-corked bottles. This lotion is often used in porrigo, and ulcers surrounded with scor- butic redness. ARCHOPTOSIS. See Rectum, Prolapsus OF. ARGENTI NITRAS. {Nilraie of Silver, lunar caustic.) See Silver, Nitrate of. [ARNICA. The tincture of the flowers of this plant hns been thought to be efficacious in pro- moting absorption in bruises, sprains, and extrava- sations of blood. A lotion composed of two oimces of tincture of arnica to eight ounces of water may be emploj'ed for this purpose. Mr. Erichsen " en- tertains no doubt of its efficacy." He states that he has employed it largely in extensive extravasa- tions, and has rapidly promoted their absorption by its use. (See Science and Art of Surg. p. 83.)] ARSENIC was the chief ingredient in a secret remedy, which long obtained celebrity in Ireland for the'cure of cancer, and is now well known amongst surgeons by the name of Plunket's caustic. This application consists of the ranunculus acris, the greater crowfoot, the flammula vulgaris, and the lesser crowfoot, in the proportion of .an ounce of each, bruised and mixed with a drachm of the white oxide of arsenic, and five scruples of sulphur. The whole is to be beaten into a paste, formed into balls, and dried in the sun. When required for use, these balls are beaten up with yolk of egg, and spread upon a piece of pig's bladder. The use of the ranunculus is to destroy the cuticle, upon which the arsenic would have no effect ; for it is to be observed that Plunket's caustic was employed for the dispersion of tumors as well as for the relief of ulcerated cancers. The applica- tion is to remain on the part twenty-four hours, at the end of which the slough is to be dressed with any simple unirritating ointment. When arsenic was first recommended as an application for can- cer, it used generally to be blended with opium. Wiien Plunket's caustic is employed, so as to form an eschar over a scirrhous tumor, I conjecture that if it ever do good, it is not by any specific effect of this arsenical application, but simply by its producing a slough. It is highly probable also that the swellings which have been thus dispersed, have never been complicated with tio structure characteristic of true scirrhus. Willi respect to cancerous ulcers, Plunket's caustic some- times produces a .degree of amendment, which.