HERNIA. bed for another week or a fortnight, during whicli period the puncture must be daily dressed and a compress and band;ige applied, in order to secure adhesion of the sides of the sac and consolidation of the invaginated plug with the walls of the in- guinal canal. A light truss and a suspensory bandage should be worn for the next three months, and violent exercise refrained from. After this period the cure may be considered complete, the truss and suspensory bandage may be dispensed with, and the patient be permitted to undergo bodily exertion without restraint. In the after treatment, Rothmund endeavours to produce adhesion of the surfaces of the inverted skin, as well as of the sac, and for this purpose he smears the cylinder with unguentura cantharidis ; while Wiitzer is content to allow the invaginated skin to take its chance of adhesion, or otherwise, depending for the cure upon obliteration of the sac and its adhesion with its coverings to the interior of the inguinal canal. In t\\& Medico-Qdrurgical Transactions for 1854, in the Medical Times and Gazette for Jan. 23rd, 1858. and in the Dublin Quarterly Journal for May of the same year, will Ije found ample information on this subject, in communications by Mr. Spencer Weils. With regard to the statistics of Vfiitzer's operation, he states, at page 360 of the last-named journal, that it has been performed about fifty times by British surgeons, and that " of these there has not been a death or dangerous symptom in any one case." At page 362, op. cit. he continues : " I think I may say, therefore, that the experience of British surgeons, so far as it has gone, speaks strongly in favour of the operation ; and if we look to the continent we find a much larger score of re- corded experience. WUtzer, in a letter to me in 1853, says: " I am not able at present to give you the statistical results of all the cases upon which I have operated, as I have not time to col- late them. I can now only say that, since the autumn of 1838, I have frequently practised my operation in the Cliniques every session, before many witnesses, and that I have never seen severe peritonitis follow it, still less any fatal result. All those operated on have not been cured. In several, relapse followed : but this was traceable either to the patient leaving off the truss too soon, or under- taking very hard bodily labour soon after the operation." Professor Sigmund, of Vienna, in- formed me that he had performed the operation nineteen times in the great hospital of that city, with complete success in fifteen cases. No death happened, but in two cases there was some gan- grene of the integuments, and in two, relapse occurred. I have heard that death did follow in one case at Brussels, but that the operation was very unskilfully performed upon a patient suffering at the time from primary syphilis ; so that this misfortune is not to be attributed to the operation, but to the operator. " Last autumn I was in Munich, and I called on Professor Rothmund, who has a larger experience of the operation than any other surgeon. I saw him perform the operation in one case, and saw two men, upon whom he had operated, on one three days, and on the other ton days before. I had a long conversation both with the professor and Ins assistants. They said the increasing num- oer of patients coming for operation was the best Prool of Its safety and success. At lirst Rothmund found it difficult to induce ten patients to submit to it in a year ; now they apply every day. They are mostly working men, and one tells the other how he has been cured. On inquiry as to relapse, the answer confirmed my previous impressions* namely, that in cases where the canal is not larger than to admit the finger easily, the radical cure may be relied on with almost absolute certainty, and that the probability of relapse increases with the size of the canal and rings. When the rings are very large and the canal very short, the chief use of the operation is to make a truss effective. In these cases of widely dilated rings and short canal, my impression was that the operation might be hazardous; but the experience at Munich shows that this fear is unfounded, provided very large cylinders be used, so that the rings are well filled and descent of intestine by the side of the cylinder is impossible. Rothmund has done the operation about 400 times in the clinical hospital at Munich, and he told me that he had done it much more fre- quently in private practice, so that he felt con- vinced he must have operated a thousand times, and without one fatal result." Gerdy^s Method.—Invagination of the scrotum, to- gether with the hernial sac and coverings, originated with M. Gerdy. His plan was more simple than that of Wiitzer, requiring sutures only to maintain the invagination. Having invaginated thestructures above mentioned as far as possible bj'- the finger, he introduces along the latter a canula concealing a needle to the end of the inverted scrotum, he now presses on the needle, and transfixes the structures covering the extremity of his finger. Two points of suture being thus formed, a piece of bougie is fixed by the threads over the parts invaginated in the inguinal canal. By these means inflammation and adhesion of the inverted cutaneous surface, as well as of the other tissues occupying the canal, are sought to be effected. A compress and bandage should be methodically applied during the period required for the consolidations of the tissues impli- cated in the operation. M'6s7ier's Method. — Another ingenious plan for accomplishing the radical cure of a redu- cible hernia is that by seton combined with in- vagination, attributed to Mosner. The seton is passed, after temporary invBgination, through the summit of the invaginated structures. These are allowed at once to resume their natural po- sition, and when unfolded the seton will of course have its orifices widely separated; one will be in the skin of the scrotum, and the other in that of the inguinal region opposite the position of the in- ternal ring, while the seton itself will be lodged in the inguinal canal. The seton composed of a single or double thread is to remain for a fortnight or three weeks, during which period pressure by a compress and bandage is also to be applied. The resulting inflammation occupying the whole length of the inguinal canal, cannot fail to be ac-' • companied by the deposit of more or less of adhe- sive material and by suppuration. When the seton is withdrawn, and for some weeks afterwards mo- derate pressure is to be maintained with the hope of securing adhesion and consolidation of the parts forming the boundaries of the canal. The following table of the results of Wulzcr's and of Mosner's operation is given by Rothmund. {N&laton, Elemens dc Palhologio Chirtirgicalo, vol. iv. p. 223.)