CANCER. 388 Melanoid Variety. These growths may, with but very rare excep- tions, be considered as medullary cancers plus a certain amount of black pigment. This pigmenta- tion may occur in all degrees. Mr. Paget has the interesting remark that, even in cancers that look colourless to the naked eye, the microscope may detect single cells or nuclei having the true mela- notic characters. Of 25 cases noted by him, 17 were females, 8 males. "In 14 cases the pri- mary seat of the disease was in the skin or sub- cutaneous tissue; in 9, in the eye or orbit; in 1, in the testicle ; in 1, in the vagina." In 10 of the 25 cases the disease appeared before the age of thirty. The remarks which Mr. Paget makes respecting one curious point in the history of melanoid cancers, viz. their tendency to occur pri- marily in or beneath pigmentary moles, are worthy of special notice. He says : — " The fact, I sup- pose, is quite inexplicable; but it may be usefully suggestive. It seems a striking illustration of the weakness in resisting disease which belongs to parts congenitally abnormal. It seems also to be an evidence that a part may very long remain apt for the growth of cancer, and not become the seat of such a growth till the cancerous diathesis, the constitutional element of the disease, is esta- blished." I cannot adopt the opinion of this high authority to the effect that melanoid may be re- garded as a pigmental degeneration of medullary cancer. In a case which I examined latel}', the morbid growth showed no evidence of withering or degeneration ; the nuclei were large and vigor- ous looking. One would not think the black colour of the choroid, or of the hair, a sign of degenera- tion. The multiplicity of the melanotic tumors was well exemplified in the case I liave men- tioned, and which is recorded, by Dr. Sanderson, in the Path. Soc. Trans, for 1855. Cancerous growths pigmented in various degrees existed in the left lobe of the cerebellum, the posterior me- diastinum, the right lung, the left ventricle of the heart, the liver, the post-peritoneal cellular tissue, the pancreas, and the subcutaneous tissue of the thorax and abdomen, especially around the mam- mary glands. Hjematoid. — Fungus H^ematodes. Dr. Walshe applies the first of these names to unusually vascular encephaloid, the vessels, as in a case he refers to, forming a dense and somewhat spongy rete. The second he applies to sanguine- ous infiltration of an encephaloid mass, or to con- siderable extravasations into its substance, and especially to the case of a rapid development of fungating growths after perforation of the skin by ulceration. The terms have a practical use, in- dicating a cancer which has either a great tendency to bleed, or has already been the seat of bleeding, and therefore are worth retaining, but they imply no special peculiarity of the cancer substance. Villous Cancer. This variety is shortly described by Rokitansky as a medullary cancer, with a stroma vegetating den- dritically. Its chief seats arc the mucous surface of the urinary bladder, the stomach, the rectum, the gall-bladder, the interior of cystic cancers in the ovaries, the pcritonreum, the skin, the inner surface of the dura mater, the parenchymata of the brain, liver and uterus, and almost certainly in the bones. These parts are mentioned in the order of the frcfiuency of their affection. The colour of these growths is usually dark red while recent, by reason of their great vascu- larity. They may appear as pedicuiated, cauli- flower masses, sometimes crisp and tense, some- times more soft and lax. Often they are consti- tuted by an aggregate of delicate and slender, or pretty extensive spongy villous excrescences, branched at the free ends, and rising from a cir- cumscribed base. In some instances they appear over a largish patch, as a diffuse growth of nu- merous scattered villous tufts, or isolated ex- crescences. For some distance around them, the surface from which they spring has an areolated appearance. This depends on its being traversed by a very delicate or more developed fine-meshed trellis-work, from the trabeculfe of which fine vesicles or villi arise, giving the whole structure a tumid felt-like aspect. The dendritic stroma of vil- lous cancer is minutely described, and illustrated by Mr. Paget, after Rokitansky. Its varieties of form seem to depend chiefly on the length and breadth which the primary and secondary divisions attain before they break up into their terminal sprouts, which are flask-like, or clavate. In structure the stromal trabeculae consist either of a hyaline mem- brane containing only serous fluid ; or of more fibrous tissue. In both cases the cancerous cell- growth, in greater or less amount, may occupy the interior of the trabeculae, appearing in the dilated extremities as structureless, or concentrically lami- nated vesicles. The exterior of the stroma is covered by a mass or layer of medullary cancerous cell-substance, which invests it like an epithelium, and, according to its abundance, imparts a greater degree of fulness and tenseness to the whole formation. The vessels are large (" colossaland follow the ramification of the stroma, just as they do in the placenta, with the occasional curious pe- culiarity, mentioned by Mr. Paget, that in some of the terminal sprouts there is but a single vessel, which terminates by a rounded end. The stress of the circulation in the terminal loops often gives rise to considerable haemorrhages. Villous cancer may- exist as a secondary growth, together with a pri- mary one of medullary. Mr. Z. Lawrence doubts the cancerousness of this form of disease, or at least suspects that two distinct species of growths have been confounded under the one terra, the non- malignant one " containing little or no solid ma- terial in its construction, but consisting nearly entirely of vascular, villous, pencil-like processes." I should agree in this view so for as to regard the latter form as cancerous in a less degree than the former. It would rank as a transitional instance toward simple papillary or warty tumors. The same degenerations which befall the otiier cancers occur in this. It may wither, or slough, or de- generate fattilJ^ Osteoid Cancer Is more completely described by Mr. Paget than by any author tliat I have seen, and from his ac- count the following abstract is taken. Lebert. who cites MuUer's description at length, does not rank this form among cancers, although he is aware of its co-existence in the same tumor with encephaloid. The primary seat of osteoid cancer is usually some bone, but it is not limited to bones. It may occur in the intermuscular spaces, and ni