82 AMPUTATION. to reflect the bone. In such cases, after saving the requisite skin in the same way as recommended below for amputation in the articulations, the bone is divided either with a small saw or the cutting pliers. Amjmtation of the Distal and Middle Pha- langes.—The phalangeal articulations are but loosely supported in front by the anterior ligament, and beliind by the extensor tendon : at the sides, how- ever, they are much more closely held together by the lateral ligaments. Consequently, it is these ■which must be divided in order to open the joint freely. The line of the articular internal is nearly transverse. Between the first and second pha- lanx, it is on a level with the palmar cutaneous furrow; but, in the articulation of the second with the third phalanx, it is from half a line to a line below the palmar furrow. (See J. F. Malgaigne, Manuel, Sfc. p. 275.) In either of these joints the operation may be done, either with a single flap, taken from the palmar surface of the finger, or with two flaps, one formed from the palmar, and the other from the dorsal surface of the finger. Amputation by the single palmar flap is per- formed, according to Lisfranc, in the following manner. The surgeon, taking hold of the finger and placing it in the bent position, makes a semi- circular incision across the joint on the dorsal sur- face, half a line in front of the angle produced by flexion, cutting through the skin and opening the capsule by the same stroke ; he then proceeds to divide the lateral ligaments, one alter the other; and the knife being conveyed through the articu- lation, the operation is completed by the formation of the palmar flap, which is to be long enough to cover the entire surface of the stump. Another method, also ascribed to Lisfranc, consists in attacking the joint on its palmar side. All the fingers, except that which is about to be amputated, are bent and held out of the way by an assistant. The point of a narrow straight bistoury is intro- duced from half a line to a line beyond the palmar cutaneous wrinkle, if we are amputating the distal phalanx, and exactly at the base of this wrinkle if we are removing the middle phalanx. The knife is to pass through the finger from one side to the other, and close to the anterior surface of the bone, along which it should be carried to the extent of rather more than half an inch, and then brought out, so as to complete a semilunar flap. The knife is then carried again to the base of the flap to divide the anterior ligament. In this opera- tion the lateral ligaments scai-cely require a sepa- rate division, for the same stroke of the knife which cuts the anterior ligament usually cuts them also, making room for the knife to pass through the articulation, and to divide the textures on the dorsal aspect, without forming any posterior flap. By this method, a more regular and better nourished flap is produced, and the operation is more sure of being effected with precision; but the extensor tendon is apt to remain too long, in which event its projecting end should be cut off with scissors. {Malgaigne, Mid. Opcr. ed. 5, p. 277.) [7/ tivo flaps are to be made, that from the pal- mar surface may be cut by transfixion, in the manner described in the last operation, only it may, of course, be considerably shorter than is there recommended ; while that on the dorsum will be more conveniently made, not by transfixion, but by incision from without inwards, a few touches with the point of the knife enabling the surgeon it upwards to the level of the joint. Both flaps should be made before opening the articulation.] The cireular method of aniputating a finger is the oldest. The finger is put in an extended pos- ture; a circular incision is made three or four lines beyond the articular interspace, the situation of which is denoted by the position of the palmar cutaneous furrow. The skin is dissected up as far as necessary, and the joint opened either in front or behind, as in the flap operation already de- scribed. Or, if the disease or injury will admit of it, the integuments may be drawn up before the circular cut is made, and thus little or no dissection of them from the subjacent parts will be necessarj'. [A single flap from the dorsal surface may be thus formed. A semilunar incision should be made so as to furm a flap about three quarters of an inch in length, the angles of which should be placed on each side of the articulation opposite to the com- mencement of the palmar furrow. This flap is to be dissected up to the joint, which is next opened from its dorsal surface by division of the lateral ligaments and extensor tendon. The operation is completed by causing the knife to cut its way out straight through the remaining tissues, situated on the palmar surface. This latter operation is only applicable to the articulation between the first and second phalan-x. In the joint between the second and third, the proximity of the nail will prevent a flap being formed of sufficient size. In general, after amputation of the distal and middle phalanges, no ligature is required; the bleeding ceases as soon as the wound is brought together, which should be effected by means of one or two sutures and narrow strips of adhesive plaster. The operation by the single palmar flap, or by flaps cut partly from the palmar and partly from the dorsal surface, are those most commonly re- commended and practised. The circular incision has fallen almost entirely into disuse. The single flap from the dorsal surface is unnoticed by many writers; it has been mentioned, however, by Lis- franc, Delpech, Velpeau and others, and more recently by Mr. Skey. (O^j. Surg. p. 349.) It is applicable to those cases where the palmar surface of the finger has been injured, but it possesses also the advantage that the flap is composed of the skin of the knuckle, which falls conveniently, of its own accord, over the end of the phalanx ; and that the position of the cicatrix renders the loss of the finger less evident than when the flap has been cut from the palmar side. What is gained in ap- pearance, however, is, perhaps, lost in utility ; for the cicatrix though more out of sight, is more ex- posed to pressure from substances held in the hand.] Amputation at the Metac.viipo-phalangeal Articulations. Each of these joints is of the enarthrodial kind, and furnished only with loose ligaments. The articular prominence, seen when the phalanx is bent, is formed by the head of the metacarpal bone. The joint is from three quarters of an inch to an inch above the digital commissure. The operation may be performed by lateral flaps, or by an oval incision. „, , , , • 1st Method, bv Lateral F/a;w. —The hand benig placed in the prone position, and the other fingers held apart from the one about to be removed, the phalanx is to bo bent, as Lisfranc directs, to an