964 HERNIA. sure upwards and inwards, instead of upwards and outwards." (lb.) It is a case in which the intestine often continues reduction within the ring. Lancet, vol. ii. p. 142.) strangulated after the (See Sir A. Cooper ; Operatjon' for Strangulated Inguinal Hernia. Sir Astley Cooper particularly recommends operations for strangulated hernise to be performed before an}' peritoneal tenderness exists, which ren- ders the issue very doubtful, though the parts be liberated by the division of the stricture. Such tenderness is not to be confounded with the tension produced by the inflation of the intestines. {On Abdominal Hernia, part i, p, 36, ed. 2.) " The herniffi of the very young and the very old require the operation less frequently than those of the middle period of life, when the fibres are firmer and the muscular strength more robust. In the tenderness of youth and the relaxation of age, the reduction of the hernia by the taxis is almost always practicable ; and it is principally in old persons that much time elapses before the stran- gulation produces fatal effects; the period of their suiferings having been known to be protracted to twenty days." {Sir A. Cooper, op. cit. part i. p, 37, ed. 2.) The operation consists in dividing the integu- ments; dissecting down to the sac, and opening it; removing the stricture; and replacing the protruded viscera. The hair is first to be shaved from the pubes. The external incision should begin an inch above the outer angle of the external ring, and extend over the middle of the tumor to its lower part; except when the swelling is large, in which circumstance the cut need not extend so far down, as will be presently noticed. The advantage of beginning the wound so high, is to obtain convenient room for the division of the stricture. By the first inci- sion the external pudic branch of the femoral artery may be divided: it crosses the hernial sac near the abdominal ring, and sometimes bleeds so freely as to require to be immediately tied. In general, however, a ligature is unnecessary. When this incision is carried low down, the caution given by Camper should always be re- membered, viz. that there is a possibilitj' of divid- ing the spermatic vessels, should they happen to be situated, as t!icy sometimes are, in front of the hernia. And, in order to avoid such an accident, which is particularly apt to occur in cases of in- ternal inguinal or scrotal hernia, the incision through the skin should be made obliquely down- wards and inwards. {Hesselbacli, p. 46.) The division of the integuments brings into view the intercoliimnar fascia, which is sent off from the tendon of the external oblique muscle, and forms the most superficial covering of the hernia. This and the deeper coverings, cellular substance, &c., intervening between the skin and sac, should be carefully divided, one after another, at one point, with the knife and dissecting forceps; the edge of tlie former instrument being turned horizontally, lest the incisions be carried too oeeply at once, and the viscera contained in the sac wounded. 'V'*^''. '"diking a small opening through a part of ine lascia covering the sac, some practitioners in- "oauce a director, and divide this fascia upward and downward, as far as the tumor extends. The same manner thej' next pursue with regard to the cremaster muscle, and fascia transversalis. Thus the sac becomes completely exposed. When this method is followed. Sir A. Cooper advises the in- cisions not to be carried upward nearer than one inch to the abdominal ring, for reasons which will be presently explained. Hovvever, it may be rationally doubted whether there is any good in these formal and successive divisions of the whole length of the coverings of the sac, and it is certain that they protract the operation; for the manner in which the sac adheres to its super-imposed investment prevents the latter from being raised and cut without trouble and de- lay. As the grand object, after the skin has been divided is to make a small opening into the sac sufficient for the introduction of a director, dis- secting down at one particular place answers everj'- purpose, and enables us, in the end, to lay open the whole of the sac and its coverings in the shortest time. Let the operator onl\' take care to raise the successive layers of fibres with the forceps, and divide the apex of each elevated portion with the knife held horizontally. As there is commonly a quantity of fluid in the sac, and it gravitates to the lower part, to which the intestine seldom quite descends, this is certainly the safest situation for making the first opening into the sac. The ope- rator, however, should not rely upon the presence of such fluid, and cut too boldlj'; for sometimes it is absent, and the viscera may be in immediate contact with, nay, adherent to, the inner surface of the sac. The circular arrangement of the vessels of a piece of intestine, and its smooth polished surface, sufficiently distinguish it from the hernial sac, which has a rough cellular surface, and is alwaj's connected with the surrounding parts; although these adhesions, in a very recent case, may be but slight. {Lawrerice, On Ruptures, p. 232, ed. 4.) I have mentioned, that Sir A. Cooper, only ad- vises cutting the fascia, and other coverings of the sac, to within an inch of the abdominal ring; and, of course, he also recommends limiting the division of the sac itself to the same extent. His reasons for this practice are, to avoid making the closure of the wound more difficult, and to lessen the danger of peritoneal inflammation. Having laid open the hernial sac with a probe- pointed bistouiy, guided by a director, or the fore- finger introduced into the opening, made at the lower part of the sac, the next desideratum is to divide the stricture, unless the viscera admit of being easily reduced without such a division being made, as occasionally happens. According to Sir Astley Cooper, the external ab- dominal ring is the principal point of strangulation in old and large oblique hernia;; and, in other cases, tiie stricture is more commonly seated at the inter- nal ring, where the spermatic cord first quits the abdomen. " The strangulating pressure is here made by the internal oblique and transversalis muscle and its tendon, which pass over the hei'- ninl sac in a semi-circular direction, and by the fascia transversalis, arising from Poupart's liga- ment, the semi-circular border of which passes under the sac." (See Sir A. Cooper, On Hernia, part i. p. 29, ed. 2.) Dupuytren calculated, that in at least eight out of ery nine cases of strangulated oblique inguinrl every :