ECTROPION. 611 One case is produced by nn unnatural swelling of the lining of the eyelids, which not only pushes their edges from the e3'eball, but also presses them so forcibly, that they become everted: another, arises from a contraction of the skin of the eyelid, or its viciuit}', by which means the edge of the eyelid is first removed to some distance from the eye, and afterwards turned completely out, together with the whole of the affected eyelid. The morbid swelling of the lining of the eyelids, which causes the first species of ectropion (putting out of present consideration a similar affection in- cidental to old age), arises mostly from a congeni- tal laxity of this membrane, afterwards increased by obstinate chronic ophthalmia in relaxed, unhealthy subjects; or else the disease originates from purulent ophthalmia affecting the eyes. While the disease is confined to the lower eyelid, as it most commonly is, its lining may be observed rising in the form of a semilimar fold, of a pale red colour, like the fungims granulations of wounds, and intervening between the eye and eyelid, which latter it in some measiu'e everts. AYhen the swelling is occasioned by the lining of both the eyelids, the disease assiunes an annular shape, in the centre of which the eyeball seems sunk, while the circumference of the ring presses, and everts the edges of the two eyelids so as to cause both great uneasiness and deformity. In each of the above cases, on pressing the skin of the eyelids with the point of the finger, it becomes manifest that tliey are very capable of being elon- gated, and would readily j'ield, so as entirely to cover the eyeball, were they not prevented by the intervening swelling of their membranous lining. Besides the considerable deformity, which the disease produces, it occasions a continual dis- charge of tears over the cheek, and, what is worse, a dryness of the eyeball, frequent exasperated attacks of ophthalmia, incapacity to bear the light, and, lastly, opacity and ulceration of the cornea. The second species of ectropion, or that arising from a contraction of the integuments of the eye- lids, or neighbouring parts, is not unfrequently a consequence of puckered scars, produced by the confluent small-pox, deep burns, or the excision of cancerous or encysted tumours, without saving a sufficient quantity of skin; or, lastly, the dis- order is the effect of malignant carbuncles, or any kind of wound attended with much loss of substance. Each of these causes is quite enough to bring on such a contraction of the skin of the eyelids, as to draw these parts towards the arches of the orbits, so as to remove them from the eye- ball, and turn their edges outward. No sooner has tliis circumstance happened, than it is often followed by another one equally unple.asant, namely, a swelling of the internal membrane of the affected eyelids, which afterwards has a great share in completing the eversion. The lining of the eyelids, though trivially everted, being con- tinually exposed to the air, and to irritation from ex- traneous suljstances, soon swells, and rises up, like a fungus. One side of this fungus-like tumour covers a part of the eyeb.ill ; the other pushes the eyelid so considerably outward, that its edge is not unfrequently in contact with the margin of the orbit. The complaints, induced by this second species of ectropion, arc the same as those brought on by the first; and, in both cases, wiien the dis- ease is inveterate, the fungous swelling becomes hard and callous. In the first species of the disease, the skin of the eyelids and adjoining parts is not deformed with scars ; and by pressing the everted eyelid with the point of the finger, the part would with ease cover the eye, were it not for the intervening fungous swelling. But, in the second, besides the obvious cicatrix and contraction of the skin of the eyelids or adjacent parts, when an effort is made to cover the eye with the eyelid, by pressing upon the latter part with the point of the finger, it does not give way, so as completely to cover the globe, or it does not move in the least from its unnatural position, by reason of the integuments of the eye- lids having been so extensively destroyed, that their margin is adherent to the arch of the orbit. Mr. Guthrie instances a case, depending on chronic inflammation, accompanied with contraction of the integuments of the eyelid, but irithout any maniftsl cicairia:. It is described as usually taking place after a long continuance of lippitudo, and proceeding from the excoriation, contraction, and hardening of the skin, " the result of the passage of the vitiated secretions over it, and which, by dropping on it, increase the irritation." {Operative Surgery of the Eye, p. 50—55.) This form of the disease is rarely attended with such a thickening of the inner membrane of the eyelid, as to need removal with the knife or scissors ; for it subsides with the removal of the complaint. (P. 60.) According to Scarpa, the cure of ectropion can- not be accomplished with equal perfection in both its forms, the second species being, in some cases, absolutely incurable. For, as in the first species of ectropion, the disease only depends upon a morbid thickening of the internal membrane of the eyelids, and the treatment merely consists in re- moving the redundant portion, art possesses many efficacious means of accomplishing what is desired. But, in the second species, the chief cause of which arises from the loss of a portion of the skin of the eyelids or adjacent parts, which loss no known artifice can restore, surgery is not capable of effect- ing a perfect cure The treatment is confined to remedying, as much as possible,such complaints as result from this kind of eversion, and this can be done in a more or less satisfactory manner, accord- ing as the loss of skin is little or great. Cases in which so much skin is deficient that the edge of the eyelid is adherent to the margin of the orbit, Scarpa abandons as incurable. How far the case can be rectified, he thinks, may always be estimated by remarking to what point the eyelid admits of being replaced, on being gently pushed with the end of the finger, towards the globe of the eve both before and after the employment of such meiins as are calculated to effect an elongation of the skin of the eyelid; for it is to this point, and no further, that art can reduce the everted part, and perma- nently keep it so replaced. When the first species of ectropion is recent the fungous swelling of the lining of the eyelid not considerable, and, consequently, the edge of the eyelid not mucii turned out, and in young subjects (for in old ones the eyelids are so flaccid, that the disease is irremediable), Scarpa prefers destroying the fungous surface of the internal membrane of the eyelid by the repeated application of the nitrate of silver. Mr. Guthrie touches the luiigous portion of tho conjunctiva every four days,