824 Woiinds of the krynx are not uncommon, as might be expected from its size, prominence, and fiuperhcial position; more or less complete aphonia 3S a necessary consequence of such injury. This failure of the voice lasts for a considerable period, but IS eventually restored when the wound heals. A troublesome and continued cough very generally accompanies these wounds, often leading to maras- mus, and sj-mptoras closely allied to phthisis. In some instances an aggravated form of inflammation ensues, which spreads to the lungs and threatens the hie of the sufferer. Dyspncea is often very urgent, and renders the operation of tracheotomy absolutely necessary for its relief. Emphysema is not an uncommon attendant of wounds of this organ and the trachea. The cartilages sometimes become thickened and eroded, and portions exfo- iiate. All injuries involving tlie larynx and tra- chea must be looked upon as dangerous; they are attended with much suffering and distress to the patient, require much attention and careful treatment, and the cure is often tedious and prolonged.] The practice of Earon Larrey furnishes a curi- ous example, m which the epiglottis of a French soldier was shot off at the battle of Alexandria on the 21st of March 1801. The ball entered a.t the angle of the jaw, crossed the throat ob- liquelj', and came out at the opposite side of the neck. The base of the tongue was grazed, and the epiglottis shot away; the patient spat it up after the accident, and showed it to the surgeon •who first saw him. The patient was not in much pain; but his voice was hoarse, feeble, and scarcely audible. When he first attempted to swallow, he was seized with a convulsive suffocating cough, attended with vomiting. Annoyed by thirst, which the extreme heat of the weather and the irritation of the wound excited, he incessantly repeated his attempts to drink; but alwa3-3 with the same result. Four days were passed in this deplorable condition. He already experienced violent com- plaints in his stomach ; continued loss of sleep ; he had a small accelerated pulse ; and was begin- ning to look thin. If the patient had been abandoned to the re- sources of nature, he would have died in the course of a few days. The most urgent indication was to appease the hunger and thirst. An elastic gum tube was introduced into the pharynx, and by moans of it the patient was given some drink, which relieved him much, and afterwards some rich broth. The patient was fed in this manner for SIX weeks, at tlie end of which time he was able, without the assistance of the tube, to swallow thick panndo, and thickened rice, made into little balls. The power of speech and deglutition in time became more perfect, in consequence, as l^arrey imagines, of an enlargement of the arvte- noid cartilages, and an expansion of that part of the base of the tongue which lies next to the glottis having formed a sort of substitute for the —149 ""^ ■^'^'^''""'<^' P- The foregoing case illustrates the utility of n edirlr™!*"''" f""" =°"^-eyi'>g nourishment and of the t'h,. 7" «»°P''"g"« in some wounds the throat. All practitioners should be duly GUNSHOT Wounds. impressed with the necessity of having such in- struments always at hand. The patient, whose case IS above recited, owed his preservation alto- gether to this means, without which he must have been starved to death. In the 4th vol of the above work, p. 247 is recorded another case, in which a gunshot wound, that took away the epiglottis, and broke the os Hyoides, was successfully treated. _ [Wounds of the pharynx not unfrequently occur in common with the larynx; the same musket-ball passing through both structures. Many of these injuries are produced by a bullet entering some part ot the face and escaping at the neck. Diffi- cult deglutition is the most prominent symptom of this lesion. The cesophagus is much more rarely wounded, iiaron Larrey records only one example of this injury which fell imder his notice during an exten- sive experience of more than thirty years. The symptoms manifested in this lesion are an ardent and inextinguishable thirst, arising from injiu-y to the pneumogastric plexus of nerves, and the food or drink swallowed passing out of the wound. The patient therefore requires to be supported by liquid nourishment introduced through a flexible tube, and care should be emplo}'ed in doing this that the instrument does not pass through the wound, or re-open it if it is partially closed, Larrey recom- mends that the thirst should be allayed by lavements and slightly tepid baths, and the lips be con- stantly moistened. H:e narrates the case which fell under his care, a very interesting and instruct- ive one, though it terminated fatally; the wound having been unfortunately re-opened after closure, from the patient freely partaking of solid food and drink before the union was sufficiently established. Division or wounds of the carotid arteries mostly terminate fatally from haemorrhage on the field. Should surgical assistance be speedily at hand, the vessel must be temporarily compressed above and below the wound, and afterwards both ends of the divided artery secured by ligature. As a con- sequence-of the division or'injury of some one or more of the cervical nerves, partial or complete paralysis of the upper extremity may ensue; this occurrence follows immediately upon the infliction of the wound in some instances, but not till after the lapse of some daj's in others; in general such injuries arc accompanied with severe pain. The lodgment of balls deeply in the neck, near the large nerves, occasions, according to Baron Larrey, severe tetanic affections; sometimes, balls so lodge"d are observed occasionally to become encysted, but they are more generally followed by suppuration, and their removal becomes a matter of necessitjs if there is a possibility of its being accomplished; as a rule, whenever they can be reached, extraction should be attempted, as they are oftener than not followed by troublesome consequences. Wounds of the posterior region of the neck are unattended with danger unless they penetrate to the spinal canal, fracturing the vertebra-, or, what is still more serious, injuring the spinal marrow and leading to a fatal result. The treatment of these wounds generally shotiW " be antiphlogistic, especially where the larynx or trachea is concerned, and opiates should be pre- scribed to allay the frequent and harassing cough. For further information on this subject, a"'' f"' tile treatment, consult the article Wounds.]