ABSORPTION. 21 c 3 Exudations further may pcrisli, and pass into a state of degeneration, in which they iire quite harmless, and may exist during the whole of life in tlie interstices of tissues, but yet seem capable of very slow absorption, if any. For example, the common so-called " j'ellow cheesy tubercle " is a mass of decayed exudation, most generally of im- perfect fibroplastic matter and epithelium in the lungs, or of some unhealthy fibrinous matter in a lymphatic gland; it is perfectly dead, and in a state of fatty or earthy degeneration, consisting of amorphous granular matter, oil globules, choleste- rine, and earthj' matter. Masses of this sort may re- main harmlessly in the lymphatic glands for years. Portions of cancer or enchondroma, or of any other tumour may pass into the same state, undergoing the slowest possible absorption, first of the oil, then of the granular matter, and leaving a putty-like mass to the end of life. In the third place, the state of the parts in which an exudation is situated may be an obstacle to its removal. A slow circulation generally;and of that of action of the veins in particular; relaxation and want of tone in the skin, muscles, and areolar tissues, are common causes. In acute hydrocepha- lus, the difficulty or impossibility of causing ab- sorption of the efi^used serum are notorious; but death more probably results from the injury done to the structure of the brain, which renders absorp- tion of the serum impossible, than from the mere presence of the serum. There are many surfaces which seem to lose the power of absorbing serous liquid, although such liquids may be readily enough taken up by the areolar tissue, as in the case of ganglion and hydrocele. In the case of cystic tu- mours, the mere absorption of the fluid contents of the cysts, isbuta small partof tliemorbid conditions. It remains for us shortly to enumerate the reme- dies which in various modes influence absorption, and the principles of their operation. _ Air, abstinence, exercise, and purgative medi- cine may be said generally to promote absorption of the entire body. Copious libations of water, and diuretic medicines in general, especially the alkaline salts, have the same eifocts. It has been proved that both water and potass, in passing through the blood, cause an excess of solid matter to be excreted by the kidney. The solution of caustic potass is reputed to be of service in causing absorptive eff'ect. (See Tumours.) The tincture of cantharides, it is said, has succeeded in removing the fluid in hydrocephalus. Amongst purgatives, thfe compound jalap powder and elaterium have the greatest virtue in cases of serous exudation, since they rob the blood so suddenly of large quan- tities of watery 'fluid that it more readily imbibes any senim that may be extravasatod. Mercury, in its various preparations, is the medicine more uni- versally relied on than any other for the power of causing absorption. And here it may be useful to remark, that it may be employed in two dis- tinct modes, which should never be confounded. One is, when it is intended to abstract from the blood any redundant or morbid material, and to discharge it by means of abundant se- cretion from the liver. Another is, when it is intended to accumulate to a certain degree in the blood (the test of which is either slight ptyal- ism or dysentery), and to produce, as is believed, certain changes in the condition of an exudation which shall render it more easily absorbed. These two modes of operation, whicli ought always to be kept distinct in the mind of the practitioner, may yet to a certain degree be carried on together in some cases. The first, or evacuant operation, is to be effected by tolerably large doses, combined with drugs which shall cause purgation; and this is best adapted for early stages of disease, as a pre- ventive of exudation, or to remove it soon after it is deposited. The other, or mercurial impregnation of the blood, is supposed to exert a catalytic, or (if we may discard the absurd use of new Greek words, which explain no more than terms already employed) a dissolvent action over exudations which are already undergoing development. The cases in which this mercurial action is most beneficial are decidedly those in which there is a syphilitic taint; next, those of fibrinous interstitial deposit — thickenings of membranes, opacities of the cornea, and adhesions generally ; but for in- flammations of mucous membranes, erysipelatous, diphtheritic,and atonic exudations it is not adapted. (See Inplamm.ation.) Next to mercury, the iodide of potassium is the most universal absorbefacient, especially in cases of exudation, or of bony deposit connected either with syphilitic, gouty, or rheumatic taint. Colchicum, especially the acetic extract in small doses, has considerable power over gouty exudations; and antimony over acute exudations in the lungs. Blisters and counter-irritants generally may be supposed to rob the blood, or the tissues near enough to be influenced by them, of certain ele- ments which are abstracted from the seat of exuda- tion. Friction and cold affusion promote a more rapid circulation, and so hasten the disappearance of exudations after the inflammatory stage has passed. Pressure operates in two ways — by pre- venting stagnation in the veins, and supplying the place of skin or muscle which have lost their tone, and cease to give normal support to the vessels. The leg, the scrotum, and abdomen are the parts to which pressm'e may be applied most beneficially with this intention. But pressure may be applied for another purpose, namely, to starve a tumour by limiting the supply of blood to it. Illustrations of this purpose of using pressure will be found in the articles on Cancer, Tumours, and Ova- RTAN Dropsy. To carry out the same intention most effectually, the arteries supplj'ing a tumour are sometimes tied. The remedies we have hitherto spoken of act by abstraction for the most part. But in the case of exudations arising from tenuity of the blood, the proper remedies are substances which supply the wanting elements, or which act complementarily to elements in excess. Hence, wine, good diet, cod- liver oil, and bark are of service in atonic effusions —.and, above all, iron, which is almost a specific. The potassio-tartrate, and other combinations with diuretics, is of service at the close of inflammatory attacks that have left the lungs or other organs (Ede- matous; the tincture of the sesquichloride, in doses of ten minims, combined with one-sixteenth of a gram of corrosive sublimate, is of great service in atonic engorgements of the womb. The corrosive sublimate, with tincture of bark, is a well-known remedy of analogous virtues. There is one remaining mode of procuring ab- soi-ption, which was idealised by Hunter when he spoke of " an action excited by irritation being in- compatible with the natural actions and existence of