984 HERNIA ductor muscles, and is inserted into the pubes, in front of the origin of the former. It passes behind the femoral vessels, and is there continuous with the iliac fascia, while the external portion covers these vessels anteriorly, just below the crural arch, and the vessels themselves are consequently situated between these two divisions of the fascia." {On liupiures, p. 391, ed. 4.) Where the insertion of the fascia lata into Pou- part's ligament ends internally, it forms what Mr. Burns of Glasgow calls the falciform process, the upper part of which is attached to the above liga- ment, while the lower proceeds fai'ther down the thigh. The concavity of the falciform process is directed towards the pubes. This anatomical con- nection is one chief cause, why extending the thigh and rotating it outward, render the crural arch tense. The hernia being situated in front of the pec- tineus, must of course be exterior to the pubic portion of the fascia lata. This part of the sub- ject is rendered very clear in the works of Sir Astley Cooper, Lawrence, Hesselbacli, Langen- beck, and Jones Quain. Mr. Lawrence states, that " the upper end of the falciform process passes over the upper and outer part of the neck of the tumor; it is then folded under the crural arch, and continues into the thin posterior border. The iliac vein is placed on its outer side ; the pubes is directly behind it; and the upper and inner parts are bounded by the thin posterior edge of Poupart's ligament" {Gimlernat's ligament). "It is this part which forms the strangulation." {On Ruptures, p. 404, ed. 4.) While, however, the latter statement is made by this gentleman and others, Sir Astley Cooper as positively declares, that the stricture is never situated at Gimbernat's ligament, but at the crural arch, just where the viscera leave the abdomen. He also mentions, that he has known the stricture continue after the division of that ligament (Gim- bemat's) and the patient die. The view taken of this part of the subject, by Hesselbach and Lan- genbeck, I have already explained. The anterior and inner side of the crural canal, as already explained, is connected with the fascia of the transverse muscle. And, according to Langcnbeck, below the part of the fascia lata, which forms the external foramen for the femo- ral vessels, the front side of the crural canal is sometimes formed by a continuation of the fascia of the transverse muscle, as he found was the case in both groins of one female subject. In some subjects there is a good deal of fat be- tween the fascia lata, and the portion of the aponeurosis of the transverse muscle, and the two parts are easily separable. Langenbeck admits, however, that the same appearance may arise from a splitting of the layers of the fascia lata. Frequently the front side of tlie crural canal is so short that the opening cannot rightly be termed a canal, and it is always shorter tlian the posterior Bide. The outer side is extended across to join tlie inner over the space between the two horns, and is then connected with the aponeurosis of the pectineus muscle. In the anterior and inner sides of the crural canal, there arc some small openings { fascia cribriformis). Doubtless this Btructure io referred to by Hesselbach, when ho sa.vH, that 111 the male subject the outer opening for w,l ?\ f'"'"'"" by a net-like web of tendinous fasciculi. The posterior side of the crural canal is derived from the part of the fascia of the psoas which enters its inner opening, and joins the aponeurosis of the pectineus muscle. The outer side of the canal lies under the fascia lata, and joins the anterior and posterior sides, where the aponeuroses of the transverse and iliac muscles proceed to the outside of the femoral artery. Langenbeck thinks the opening, by which the vena sapliena passes over the lower horn of the falciform process of the fascia lata, might be named the loiver ape.Hure of the crural canal. (See Lan- genhech's Neue Bibl. 'fur die CMrurgie, b. ii p 126, 127, 8vo. Hanover, 1819.) According to Hesselbach, when femoral hernia exists, the two openings of the passage now termed the crural canal, are one half larger than natural. The outer portion of the inner of these apertures is propelled more outward, and with it the epigastric artery. The femoral vein no longer lies at the external side of this opening, but rather at the back of the canal or passage. The external semilunar edge (the falciform process) of the outer opening is carried more outward and up- ward, and is tightly applied over the distended hernial sac. In this state of the parts the outer opening forms an oval, firm tendinous ring, the long diameter of which, like that of the inner open- ing for the passage of the femoral vessels, is trans- verse. The neck of the hernial sac is that portion of it, which lies within the canal between the two openings. The posterior side of this canal, or passage, now frequently named the crural canal, is longer than the anterior. In one large hernia, Hesselbach found it an inch and a half in length, but the anterior side of the passage' more than one _ third shorter. The greatest diameter of the inner opening was one inch five lines, while that of the outer one was only one inch four lines. Most of the posterior part of the neck of the hernial sac, with the hinder side of the canal, lies upon the pectineus muscle, and towards the outer side upon the femoral vein. The neck of the hernial sac adheres more firmly to the anterior, than to the posterior side of the passage. At the outer opening of the passage, the neck terminates at almost aright angle forwards in the body of the sac, the upper portion of which lies upon Poupart's ligament, but the largest part of it is situated on the pectineal layer of the fascia lata. In the male subject, when the tendinous fibres, mixed with the cellular substance covering the outer opening of the passage {fascia cribriformis,) make great resistance at particular points, the hernial sac of a femoral hernia may be double, or even divided into several pouches, a preparation exhibiting which occurrence is in the anatomical museum at Wiirz- burg. {Hesselbach, p. 48.) Except in a few cases, in which the origin and course of the epigastric artery are unusual, this vessel runs very close to the external side of the neck of the hernial sac, much nearer than it does in an internal inguinal hernia. The sac of the femoral hernia is exceedingly nar- row at its neck; and, where its body begins, it becomes expanded in a globular form: the sac of an oblique inguinal hernia is generally of an oblong pyramidal shape. The bod}"- of the sac of the femoral hernia makes a right angle with the neck, by being thrown forward and upward, a circumstance verj' necessary to be known in trying to reduce the parts by the taxis. Thougli the tumor formed by the