246 ANTRUM liis parents gave themselves no concern about it. When he was about sixteen, however, the swelling began to increase, and to be somewhat painful. Before he was eighteen, its augmentation was so considerable, that the floor of the orbit was raised up by it ; the eye thrust upAvards, and nearly closed ; the arch of the palate pushed down in the form of a tumor ; and the nostril almost effaced. Below the orbit, the cheek made a considerable prominence ; while the nose was thrown towards the opposite side of the face, and the skin at the upper part of the tumor, below the lower eyelid, was of a purple red colour, and threatening to burst The upper lip was drawn upwards, and behind it; all the gums of the left side were ob- served to project much further than those on the opposite side of the face ; and, at this point alone, the thinness of the bony parietes of the antrum was perceptible. The patient spoke and breathed with great difficulty; he slept uneasily, and his mastication was painful. The case was at first supposed by Dubois, Sabatier, Pelletan, and Boyer, to be a fungus of the antrum, and an operation was considered advisable. In proceeding to this measure, the first thing, which attracted the notice of Dubois, was a sort of fluctation in the situation of the gum, behind the upper lip ; a circumstance which led him to give up the idea of the case being a fungus, though he expected that, on making an opening, merely a small quantity of ichorous matter would escape, affording no kind of informa- tion. In this place, however, he determined to make an incision along the alveolar process, whereby a large quantity of a glutinous substance like lymph, or what is found in cases of ranula, was discharged. A probe was now introduced, with which Dubois could feel a cavity equal in extent to the fore part of the tumor ; and in moving the instrument about, with the view of learning whether any fungus was present, it struck against a hard substance, which felt like one of the incisor teeth, near the opening that had been made. Five days after this first operation, Dubois extracted two incisors and one grinder, and then removed the corresponding part of the alveolar process. As the hemorrhage was profuse, the wound was now filled with dressings, which in two days came away, and enabled Dubois to see with facility all the interior of the cavity. At its upper part, he perceived a white speck, which he supposed was pus ; but, on touching it with a probe, it turned out to be a tooth, which was then extracted, in doing which some force was requisite. The rest of the treatment merely consisted in injecting lotions into the cavity, and applying common dressings. In about six weeks, all the hollow disappeared ; but the swelling of the cheek and palate, and the displacement of the nose, still continued. In the course of another year and a half, however, every vestige of deformity was entirely removed. (Dubois, Bulletin de la Faculte da Mid. an 13, No. 8.) In the case of the lady attended by Sir Ben- jamin Brodie, there was no distinct fluctuation, but a kind of crackling sensation communicated to the fingers, like what would be felt in pressing upon very thin horn, or parchment. {Med. Gaz loc. cit.) With respect to the treatment of collections of mvicua, or transparent albuminous fluid, in the antrum, by means of injections thrown into that cavity through the natural opening in it, while the head is inclined to the opposite side, for the purpose of facilitating the escape of the collected fluid, as proposed by Jourdain in 17G5 (Mem. de VAcad. de Chir. t. iv. p. 357), I fully agree with Deschamps and Boyer, that the method is a bad one ; because long before the disease forms an outward swelling, we may presume that the na- tural communication between the antrum and the nostril is closed, and will not readily admit of a tube being introduced into it. Some plan, more fraught with promptitude and efficiency, is here demanded. Hence, the practice of opening the tumor in an eligible place, and to an extent suf- ficient for the discharge of the mucus, and the pre- vention of another accumulation, is what all sur- geons of the present day recommend. (DescJiamps, Tmite des Maladies des Fosses N'asales, et de lew Sinus, p. 231, 8vo. Paris, 1804; Boyer, Traitedes Mai. Chir. t. vi. p. 146, 8vo. Paris, 1818. In- deed, that Jourdain's proposal was attended with too much difficulty for common practice, was the sentence long ago pronounced upon it by a com- mittee of the Royal Academy of Surgerj^ in France. If the case has not destroyed, or softened the front or lower portion of the bony texture of the antrum, and any bad tooth is situated under it, this should be extracted, and a perforation made into the antrum through the bottom of the socket. This aperture may be preserved as long as necessary, by the introduction of a piece of elastic gum catheter, which is to be fastened to the adjacent teeth, and through which the secretion in the antrum may escape, and lotions be injected. (See Deschamps, Traite des Mai. des Fosses Nasales, S,-c. p. 234.) However, as Hunter remarks, if the forepart of the bone has been destroyed, even though the case be merely a collection of mucus, or pus, an opening may be made on the inside of the lip : but, from a fear that there would be difficulty in maintaining such an aperture, he still inclines to the practice of drawing one of the teeth. {Natural History of (he Teeth, p. 176, ed. S.) In general, I believe that the extraction of one of the molar teeth will not prove very applicable to the present case ; first, because the thick albu- minous fluid requires a larger opening tlian can be thus obtained: and secondly, because when the surgeon is called upon to perforin an operation, the bony texture of the anirura is already very thin, much softened, or even partially absorbed above or behind the alveoli ; consequently, as soon as the surgeon has made an incision above the gum, or in the part of the swelling presenting itself on the roof of the mouth, he finds that a probe will immediately enter the antrum. All that he has to do, therefore, is to enlarge this opening with a small pair of bone-pliers, or a strong knife. Mr. Hunter's apprehension about the difliculty of maintaining the opening, and of the likelihood of a return of the accumulation, does not appear to bo confirmed by what liappened in the cases inider Dubois and Sir Benjamin Brodie. The alter informs us, that, "after dissecting the membrane of the cheek from the jaw, I took a curved scalpel, bent laterally, witli a strong sharp point, and m- trnduced the point into what seemed the thin bony paiietes, or boundary of the tumor. Immediately there escaped a large quantity of transparent tiuid, like very thin mucus, something like what we Imtt in cases of ranula. I then introduced a probe into