^'^^ HERNIA hernia. {AfcJ. Chir. Zciiimg, 1819, p. 110.) The muscle begin to be inserted on it; the lower, through the triangular ligament and conjoined tendon, close to the insertion of Girabeinat's and Poupart's ligaments into the pubis ; and both through the aponeurosis of the external oblique forming the inner pillar of the ring. The central loop passes through the centre of Poupart's liga- ment and the lower fibres of the internal oblique muscle arising from it. Thus, we leave in the canal two threads passing across the invaginated fascia, and, in large and old cases, across the sac, immediately above and in front of and investing the spermatic cord, and connecting the inferior and external boundary of the canal or Poupart's ligament with the superior internal and posterior boundaries formed by the fascia transversalis con- joined tendon and triangular ligament. A pad of boxwood, or what is still better, of glass or porce- lain, about two inches long and one inch wide, flattened so as to be oval in section, and with the ends rounded off, is next applied obliquely upon the skin, along the course of the inguinal canal, with the centre opposite the puncture. The two free ends of the ligature are drawn to the outer side, and the loop to the inner side of the pad, so as to cross beneath it. One end of the thread is then passed through the loop and tied in a loop knot to the other." Where operative procedure is undertaken for the radical cure of hernia, I am much inclined to recommend the more simple methods of Gerdy and of Mosner to the profession, for further trials, in preference to the more com- plicated proceedings of Wiitzer, Rothmund, and of Mr. Wood. I would venture also to suggest a combination of Gerdy's and Mr. Wood's opera- tion, in which the sutures might be applied to the boundaries of the inguinal canal as nearly as pos- sible according to Mr. Wood's directions, but passed through the invaginated skin, instead of subcuianeously, as above described. Lastly, it ap- pears to me that, to Mcisner's longitudinal seton, transverse ones might be advantageously added, or that Gerdy's operation with an upper, lower, and central suture instead of an upper one only, might be more effectual] CONGKNITAL HeKNU. Before the beginning of the sixth month of the foetal state, the testicle is situated just below the kidney, upon the psoas muscle, where it receives its arteries from the aorta, and sends its vein on the right side into the lower vena cava, and, on the left, into the corresponding renal vein; and where also it receives a covering from the peritoneum, just like the other abdominal viscera. From the lower part of the testicle and epidydimis proceeds a long fibrous substance, called the guhernaculum, and it lies in the track which that organ afterwards follows in its descent into the scrotum. The gu- beriiaculum is believed to have some influence in guidiiig the testicle in the right course to its final situation. Between the beginning of the sixtli month, and end of the seventh, the testicle has either descended as low as just above the abdominal ring, or else is passing through it, or arrived a little below it. (^Wrisbcrg. Comm. Reg. Societ. G'oitinq. When the testicle passes through the abdo- minal ring into the scrotum, it is received into a production of the peritoneum, wliich afterwards constitutes the tunica vaginalis reflexa; while that peritoneal investment, which was given to the tes- ticle in the loins, is closely adherent to the tunica albuginea. According to Sir Astley Cooper, it is in the eighth month, that the testis passes out of the abdominal ring, " bringing with it a portion of the peritoneum, which is previously somewhat looser at the lower part of the abdomen, than elsewhere, and which becomes afterwards the tunica vaginalis." {On Hernia, part i. p. 74, ed. 2.) After the descent of the testicle into the scro- tum, the communication, between the cavity of the tunica vaginalis and that of the abdomen, commonly becomes obliterated, which latter event is usually effected before birth, sometimes not till afterwards; and, in a few subjects, even as late as the adult state, or it may remain open throughout life. In congenital hernia, the protruded viscera are situated in the tunica vaginalis, in contact with_ the testicle ; having descended into this position before the closure of the communication with _ the abdomen. Of course, the timica va- ginalis itself is the hernial sac. The nature of this case was not understood, until it was elu- cidated by Plaller in 1755, and the two Hunters in 1762 and 1764. (See W. Hunter's Med. Com- ment. ; Holler's Opuscula Fatliolog. and Opera Minora, S.) Before the periods here specified, surgeons imputed the circumstance of the contents of the hernia and testicle being in contact, to the bowels having made their way, by laceration, through the tunica vaginalis, from the ordinary sac of an inguinal hernia. From the term congenital, we might suppose, that this hernia always existed at the time of birth. The protrusion, however, seldom occurs till after this period, on the operation of the usual exciting causes of herniag in general. It does not commonly happen till some months after birth; and, in certain instances, not till a late period. Mr. Hey relates a case, in which a hernia congenita was first formed in a young man, aged sixteen, whose right testis had, a little while before the attack of the disease, descended into the scrotum. In the generality of cases, wliich actually take place during the slow descent of the testicle towards the scrotum before birth, the event may be referred to that organ having contracted an adhesion to a piece of intestine, or omentum, in its passage to the ring. In an infant, which died a few hours after birth, Wrisberg found one testicle, which had not passed the ring, adhering, by means of a few slender filaments, to the omentum, just iihovo this aperture. Sometimes, adhesions of the testicle to the adjacent viscera, instead of leading to the formation of a congenital hernia, only pre- vent the descent of the former organ. Cloquet ex- j amined the body of an old man, in which the left testicle lay on the psoas and iliacus muscles, con iiected to the sigmoid flexure of the colon, whil an inguinal hernia existed on the same side. cherchcs, &c. p. 24.) Sometimes, no protrusion at all happens, even though the communication between the tunica vaginalis and abdomen con- tinue open in the adult subject, as is particularly exemplified in a case, recorded bj' Hessclbach, where such communication existed on each sida in a man, thirty-eight years of age, without any