^^^^ HYPOPIUM, in the eye, or an liypopiura, are the same as those which occunn the highest stage of acute ophthahnia: VIZ. prodigious tumefaction of the eyelids ; the same redness and swelling of the conjunctiva as in chemosis; burning heat and pain in the eye; pains in the eyebrow and nape of the neck; fever, restlessness, aversion to the faintest light, and a contracted state of the pupil. As soon as the hypopium begins to form, says Scarpa, a yellowish semilunar streak makes its appearance at the bottom of the anterior chamber, and, regularly, as the glutinous fluid is secreted from the inflamed internal raembrcanes of the eye, so as to pass through the pupil, and fall into the aqueous humour, it increases in all dimensions, and gradually obscures the iris; first at its inferior part, next where it forms the pupil, and lastly, the whole circumference of this membrane. So long as the inflammatory stage of violent ophthalmia lasts, the hypopium never fails to enlarge; but, immediately this stage ceases, and the ophthalmia enters its second period, or that dependent on local weak- ness, the quantity of coagulating lymph, forming the hypopium, leaves off increasing, and, from that moment, is disposed to diminish. Scarpa states, that persons, little versed in the treatment of diseases of the eyes, would fancy that the^ most expeditious and efficacious mode of curing an hypopium, after it has become stationary in the second stage of acute ophthalmia, would be that of opening the cornea at its most depending, part, in order to procure a speedy exit for the matter collected in the chambers of the aqueous humour; especially as this was once the common doctrine. But experience shows, that dividing the cornea, in such circumstances, is seldom suc- .cessful; and most frequently gives rise to evils worse than the hypopium itself, notwithstanding the modifications suggested by Richter ( Obs. Chir. fasc. i. chap. 12) not to evacuate the whole of the matter at once, nor to promote its discharge by repeated pressure and injections, but to allow it to flow slowly out of itself. The wound made at the lower part of the cornea for evacuating the matter of the hypopium, small as the incision may be, most commonly reproduces severe inflammation, and a greater effusion of coagulating lymph in the chamber of the aqueous humour. It might even convert the hypopium into an ulcer of the cornea, attended with prolapsus of the iris, and occasionally of the lens itself. There seems to Scarpa to be only one case, in which dividing the cornea is, not only useful, but indispensable; this is, when there is such an'im- mense quantity of coagulating lymph extravasated in the eye, that the excessive distension which it produces of all the coats of this organ occasions symptoms so vehement, as not only threaten ihe entire destruction of the eye, but even endanger the life of the patient. The dispersion of hypopium, by means of ab- sorption, forms the primary indication at whicli the surgeon should aim. In order to stop its progress the most efficacious method is to subdue the first violence of tlie inflammation, and to shorten its acute stage by the free employment of antiphlo- gistic treatment, and the use of emollient topical applications. In conjunction with these means me xmy should be exhibited, so as to nflect the mouth; a practice which arrn r "found many years ago, at the London Ophthalmic Infirmary, to be the most powerful means of checking effusion of lymph in the eye. (See Saunders's Work on tlu: Eye, ed. 2; and ^ Synopsis of ilie Diseases of lU Eye, by B. Travers, p. 135.) I observe, that in Ilufeland and Iliraley's Journal for October 1809, p. 93, there is an account of the treatment of an hypopium, or case of eflfused lymph m the cham- bers of the eye, by exhibiting from 12 to 18 grains of the chloride of mercury, in the space of 12 hours, and then giving bark; while as an external application, the tinct. opii crocat. was em- ployed. Thus we see, that the efficacy of mer- cury in checking the effusion of lymph in the eye, and promoting its absorption, has been known many years in Germany. The efficacy of this practice, combined with the external use of bella- donna to make the pupil expand, will be here- after noticed. (See Ophthalmia.) The acute stage having been checked, a seton, or a blister on the nape of the neck, as recommended by Scarpa, should be applied. [It is, however, only in the acute and inflam- matory stage, that advantage can be expected from mercurial treatment ; when suppuration has taken place, tonics will be more appropriate, and in many cases, the tonic and mercurial treatment may be advantageously combined.] Mr. Lawrence strongly disapproves of the prac- tice of puncturing the cornea in hypopium. " I lay it down (says he) as an invariable rule, not to puncture the cornea in hypopyon. Inflammation must be arrested by suitable means, and the eff'u- sion will be rapidly absorbed." {On Dis. of tlie Eye, p. 279.) The only exception made is, the case of general suppuration of the globe, where the eyesight is already lost, and refief of suffering may be obtained by giving exit to the matter. Mr. Middlemore takes a similar view, believing, that the treatment of hypopium should be directed against the inflammation, which is the cause of it. On the other hand, Dr. Mackenzie is partly in favour of the practice, which, in the hands of Dr. Monteith, was even repeated from time to time with advantage. In bad cases, hypopium may lead to ulceration, opacity, and bursting of the cornea. The ulce- ration takes place with great celerity, and as soon as an apertm'e has been formed, an abundance of coagulating lymph begins to escape, and a degree of relief is experienced. But, this is not of long continuance; for, scarcely is the glutinous fluid evacuated, that distended the whole eye, and espe- cially the cornea, when it is followed by a portion of the iris, which glides through the ulcerated aperture, and protrudes externally. (See Iris, Prolapsus or.) But if in such an emergency, the cornea, already ulcerated, opaque, and greatly deranged in its organisation, should not immedi- ately burst, the surgeon is then constrained by the violence of the symptoms, depending on the pro- digious distension of the eyeball, to make an open- ing in this membrane. Were tliere the least chance of restoring, in any degree, the transparency of the cornea, and the functions of the organ of vision, after opening the cornea, Scarpa acknowledges, that it would be more prudent to make the opening at the lower part of this membrane. But, in tlie case now con- sidered, in which tlie cornea is universally menaced with ulceration and opacity, and seems ready to slough, there can be no hope of its resuming its