pus essentinlly differ is not in the nature of the piirticles, but in the fluid secreted with them, !ind in which they float ; the liquor puris being al- buminous and coagulableby hont.theliquormucinot being atl'ected by it. Treated with acetic acid, the mucu3 particle exhibits internal nuclei similar to those seen in pus. {On Urimiri/ Deposits, p. 337.) The particles in mucus perhaps are not so uniform in size, or so granular- on the surface, and the nucleus may be more distinctly seen without the use of reagents. Mr. Coulson has drawn the fuUowing distinction:—" The characteristic nucleus of the pus globule is ordinarily tripartite, sometimes quadripartite, more rarely only bipartite ; each division of the nucleus is biconcave, and measures ^^0'." eooo of ^ inch in diameter. The only bodies with which the pus corpuscles are likely to be confounded are young epithelial scales. These, however, are readily distinguished by their solitary/ nucleus. As to the mucus corpuscle, its existence is totally unjnoved: under that name have been con- founded pus corpuscles seen without the use of re- agents ; the pyroid corpuscles of Lebert, really a variety of compound granular corpuscles ; young epithelial scales, and the nuclei of epithelial scales." {On Diseases of the Bladder, p. 145.) Fortunately, the "diagnosis between the pus and mucus par- ticle, about which so much has been written, though interesting pathologically, is not of any great practical importance. The following account of the appearances which the diseased parts exhibit on dissection is given by Sir B. Brodie. " The mucous membrane is of a dark red colour, in consequence of its numerous ves- sels ramifying on its surface injected with their own blood. As the disease proceeds, the discoloration becomes greater, until at last the mucous membrane appears almost black from the turgid state of the vessels, at the same time that it is somewiiat thick- ened and pulpy to the touch. The inflammation ex- tends up the membrane ofthe ureters; which in their turn assume much the same appearance with the bladder itself. The pelvis of each kidney, and the processes of the pelvis or infundibula become in- flamed also; and these, as well as the ureters, are generally diiati-d, so as to be more capacious than natural. This dilatation is greatest where there has been a long continued difficulty in expelling the urine from the bladder ; but it exists in other cases also, though in a less degree. In the ad- vanced stage of the disease, the inflammation is found to have extended to the glandular structure ofthe kidneys ; and these organs become not only more vascular than natural, but enlarged in size, and of a soft consistence, even approaching in ap- pearance to that of a medullary tumor. Collec- tions of muco-piirulent fluid, tinged brown with grumous blood, and otFunsive to the smell, arc sometimes found in the dilated infundibula ; at other times there are distinct abscesses in the glandular structure. In cases where the disease is still further advanced before the patient dies, we find that the inflammation has extended to the' muscular tunic of the bladder, and to the loose cellular membrane by which the bladder is sur- rounded. Then, coagulated albiuncn is deposited in the cellular texture ; not unfrequently small putrid abscesses are formed in it ; and sometimes after death it is found in a state of slough, or ap- proaching to it. Occasionally, but rarely, ulcera- tion takes place in tiic inner surface of the bladder 305 BLADDER. and sometimes to a very great extent." {On Dis- eases of the Urinary Organs, ed. 4, p. 106.) In one case, which is an exemplification of what is not un- li-equeiitly met with, " the mucous membrane was found destroyed everywhere, except a very small portion near the neck of the bladder. The mus- cular fibres were as distinctly exposed as they could have been by the most careful dissection." It would be erroneous, however, to infer, from the above description, that inflammation of the bladder is often per se a fatal disorder. On the contrary, when the cause which has produced it has been removed, it is ordinarily very amenable to treatment. Patients may die from inflammation of the bladder, and its extension to the kidneys, after lithothrity, in pro- static disease, or in severe cases of stricture; but it is to the maintenance and aggravation ofthe inflam- mation, through the persistence of its exciting cause, that we are indebted for so lamentable a result. InflammaiioH ofthe muscular coat ofthe bladder has been described by authors ; but it is very doubtful whether such an aifection, occurring pri- marily', has an independent existence. The only exception, perhaps, is one alluded to by Dr. Prout, of certain gouty and rheumatic inflammations of the bladder, in which he thinks it probable that the muscular and nervous structures and their append- ages may be the chief seat of the afl'ection. The late author of this Dictionary says, "as to the efl^ects of an inflammation of the detrusor urinaj, I know nothing of them from experience." Mr. Coulson's opinion is, that the muscular coat is seldom, perhaps never, exclusively the seat of inflammation, if we ex- cept those cases in which abscesses form between the serous and muscular coverings ; and then, perhaps. It would be more correct to regard the areolar tissue and not the muscular fibres, as the seat of inflamma- tion ; m short, to class the aflection as we should class an abscess occurring in any other situation. {On Dis 0/ the Bladder, p. 180.) Even the occur- rence ot an abscess, however, seems improbable excepting as the result of some irritation communi- cated from either the mucous or peritoneal surfaces The irritation of the bladder and the constant straining to pass water in urinary disease of Ion? standing, often lead to a chronic inflammation, or hypertrophy, of the muscular coat, which may be found after death to be half an inch, or even an inch, in thickness. Such a bladder is quite inca- pable of a proper amount of distension, and hence as soon as a small quantity of urine has collected' violent efforts are excited for its expulsion. ' The efforts to evacuate the urine may occasion a protrusion of the mucous coat through the inter Slices of the muscular fibres, and a sacculated Madder is the result. The existence of those saccuh will aggravate the mischief, for, as thevire uncovered by muscular fibres, they are not emptied by the usual elTorts of the patient, and the urine accuniulatos in them and undergoes decomposition. I his stagnation is favourable to the formation of uri- nary concretions, and calculi are not unfrequently found encysted m these cavities. (See Lithotomy ) rrea mcnt.~ihe first indication in the treat mont of mflamcd bladder is obviously the remov.1 of Its exciting cause. This having been done the principal diflicilty will have disappeared, and tl e patient will, i,, most caws, with appropriate manacc- luent, soon be restored to health and comfort, Hnt oven when the exciting cause does not admit of removal, much may be done to palliate his BuiToringg. X