EXOSTOSIS, subject to be attacked with caries, or ne- crosis. ' When an exostosis is hard, chronic, and free Irora pain and alteration of the structure of the bone, It is more common for it to cease to enlarge and remain stationary during life, without produc- ing inconvenience, provided it be so situated as not to impede the functions of any vital organ. But, in the cellular exostosis of Boyer, which I take to be the same disease as the fungous ex- ostosis of the medullary membrane of Sir Astlev Cooper, and which is of a malignant character, the acute and rapid progress of the disease indicates a deeper and more serious alteration of the texture of the bone. A part of the tumor usually consists ot a pultaceous, or gelatinous matter, and the rest, 8 ill endued with its natural organisation, though altered by the disease, soon presents one or several cavities, in which there is suppuration. At the and the bowels become extremely in-ecular At length the tubereles ulcerate ; the skin secrete pus; but, when the swelling itsLlf is exp "ed t Jis charges a bloody-coloured serum. A fungu's th n forms, which sometimes bleeds profusely, and after It has risen very high, sloughing occurs and con- Mderab e portions of the swelling are thrown' ff. th s process, Sir A. Cooper has never kno,Yn the disease cured by it; and, in the end, the patient is destroyed by the effects of the repe'ated bleeding mmense discharge, and constitutional irritation.- 1 this disease, as m common fungus haraatodes, tumoisof a similar nature are often formed in 0 her parts of the body, and, after the amputation of the affected bone, frequently make their appear- ance in organs of the greatest importance to life. Ihe s^ve!llng is described as originating from the medullary membrane, and as removing the mus- same time, the external soft ^aVts b n-- xce Is " ^^''^^'r '^'^ sively and rapidly distended.^nfl^me ulcerate £ inches, or more, from and eave exposed a more or le'ss extens ve porttn' over the tun or ^'^^^^Tr".'' ^''"^ ^^^'l '"''"'^ of the tumor, the disease nf xvh;,.h -J : ! . The blood-vessels and laree of the tumor, the disease of which has in manv cases been very wrongly supposed to be caries, it is not, observes Boyer, that the part of the swelling denuded by ulceration is not sometimes affected with caries; but then it exists as a com plication of the original disease, and as a particu- larity, by no means the result of the ulceration of the soft parts, and of the exposure of the diseased bone to the contact of the air. When the soft parts are thus ulcerated, the opening contracts to a certain point, and becomes fistulous. The suppur- ation IS always of bad quality, and in a quantity proportioned to the size of the cavity of the abscess and the strength of the patient. The fever, which commences at an early period of the disorder, as- sumes a slow type, and its continuance, together with the copiousness of the ichorous discharge, the irritation, &c. may bring on the patient's dissolu- tion. The following are the symptoms of what Sir Astley Cooper denominates th^ funqous exostosis of the medullary membrane. The disease begins with a general enlargement of the affected part of the limb, extending a considerable way around the seat of the exostosis itself. This form of the complaint mostly occurs in young persons, though Sir Astley Cooper has seen it in an individual fifty years old. " Its increase proceeds very graduallj" and even when it has acquired considerable magni tude, although it produces some diminution of mo- tion in the limb, it does not occasion pain, nor prevent the patient from using it, When any pain does arise, it is of an obtuse kin^, only being acute in the event of a nerve being stretched by the tumor. Thus an exostosis of the thigh-bone sometimes causes great agony, by pressing on the sciatic nerve. Paleness, debi'litj% and irregularity of the bowels are observed to attend the early stage of the disease; and afterwards the com- plexion becomes sallow. In the mean time, the diseased part of the lirnb attains an enormous size; but the skin retains its natural colour. At many points the swelling feels hard; at others, it is so elastic as to cause the presence of fluid to be suspected; but, if an opening be made, only blood 18 discharged. The surface of the tumor next becomes tiibereulated, and the prominences teu- °fr, and their surface is often slightly inflamed, •ine rest is now broken, the appetite impaired. nerves arc also similarly displaced. The tuber- culated appearance of the skin, which is itself sound, IS caused by projecting small masses on the surface of the tumor. Under the muscles is the periosteum, pushed to a considerable distance from the bone. A part of the swelling itself is yellow, lilce fat ; another portion resembles brain ; and a third IS composed of coagulated blood with inter- stices filled with serum. In some parts, the white substance is found nearly as firm as cartilage ; but m general it presents a more spongy appearance, and is interspersed with spicula of bone. The shell ot the bone itself is in part absorbed ; in some places It IS only thinner than usual; while in others it IS immensely expanded, so as to form a case like wire-work over the tumor. The fungous granu- lations, proceeding from the medullary membrane Itself, are exceedingly vascular, and often shoot Irom the cavity of the bone beyond the level of the integuments. Sir A. Cooper, Surgical Essays, part 1. p. 165—168.) One termination of exostosis, not sufBcientlv noticed by writers, but which has been observed', especially in the hard and stalactical exostosis, is that by necrosis. Tumors of this description, after acquiring a large size, have been attacked by necrosis, separated from the bone which served them as a base, and been surrounded ivith a reproduc- tion in every respect similar to that with which nature surrounds sequestra formed under any other circumstances. This termination is undoubtedly the most favourable of all, because nature proceeds in It slowly, without any violent disturbance ; but, unfortunately, it is the least common. Art can imitate it; but her means are very inferior to those of nature. {Boyer, Mai. Chir. t. ii"i. p. 547 — 5.50.) A few years ago a most interesting case of an enormous exostosis of the upper maxillary bone, which followed the preceding course, was under my notice. It was believed at first to be a malignant tumor of the antrum; but the bony formation, after e.xciting abscesses, was attacked with necrosis, and was ultimately thrown off by exfoliation. The hardest exostosis, which has grown slowly and without causing severe pain, is the least dan- gerous of all. After the disease has attained a cer- tain size, it may become stationary, .ind continue in this state, without inconvenience, during life. This is most frequently observed in the ivory ox-