4-46 CATHETER escape till tlio cntlietcr has passed completely through it. A catheter also has been known to penetrate deeply between the bladder and rectum, and admit of almost as extensive movements, as i it had entered the bladder. A mistake is still more likely to happen, when, in consequence of ulcer ation of the lower side of the nrothra^ an accidental pouch has been formed, in front of the rectum, and in the substance of the perineum, as M, Velpeau once noticed in a man who died in the hospital in 1825, and as M. Roux observed in several instances. In fact, such a pouch may be supposed to be a diseased bladder, and this the more readil}-, as the catheter, directly it passes into it, gives issue to a small quantity of urine. (See Velpeau, Nouv. Elem. de M&d. Oper. t. iii. p. fll7.) When the catheter is to be retained in the blad- der, according to the experience of Desault, the practice of gradually letting out a part of the urine is by no means advantageous. He also dis- approves of running into the opposite extreme, that is to say, of letting the urine flow out of the catheter as fast as it is secreted ; for, then, the bladder is kept constantly relaxed, and the detrusor muscle will not be likely to recover its tone. When tlie bladder is continually empty, it is liable to come into contact with the end of the catheter ; a cir- cumstance which has sometimes caused consider- able irritation, pain, and even ulceration of that viscus. Besides these inconveniences, there are Bome others ; the catheter is sooner obstructed with mucus, and lined with incrustations, than when it is closed with the stilet. The patients are like ■\yise obliged to remain in bed, where they are either wet with their urine, or compelled to have incessantly a vessel for its reception. The best prac- tice, therefore, seems, to be that of letting out all the lU'ine, as soon as the catheter is introduced, and then closing the instrument until the bladder has become moderately distended again ; for experi ence proves, that such moderate distension and relaxation of the muscular fibres of the bladder, alternately kept up, have the same good effects upon that organ, as moderate exercise has upon other parts of the body. When a catheter is to be left in the urethra, it should always be properly fixed, or else it is apt to slip out, or even pass too far into the passage. For this purpose, some surgeons use cotton thread, or a piece of narrow tape, which they fasten to the rings, or round the external end of the catheter. The two extremities of the thread or tape are then carried some way along the dorsum of the penis, ■when they are tied together, and afterwards con- veyed in opposite directions round the part, till they meet underneath it, where they are tied in a bow. When a silver catheter is employed, a tape, or narrow riband, is passed through each of the rings, and conveyed to each side of the pelvis, where it is fastened to a circular bandage. Mr. Hunter re- marks, that the common bag-truss for the scrotum answers extremely well, when two or three rings arc fixed on each side of it along the side of the scrotum, and the ring of the canula is fastened to siny of them with a piece of tape. (On the Venereal '^{TtV' ^' P- ' ^^•) '^"^ notices another metliod: When the catheter (says he) is fairly in the blad- der, the outer end is rather inclined downwards, nearly in a line with the body. To keep it in this position wo may take the connnon strap, or belt pnrt, of a bag-truss, with two thigh straps, cither fixed to it, or liooked to it, and coming round each thigh forwards by the side of the scrotum, to be fastened to the belt, where the ends of the bag are usually fixed. A small ring or two may bo fixed to each strap just where it passes the scrotum, or root of the penis ; and with a piece of small tape, the ends of the catheter may be fixed to those rings, which will keep it in the bladder. It seems Mr. Hunter did not, like Desault, disapprove of leaving the ca- theter unclosed, and he adds, therefore, a bit of rag, about four or five inches long, with a hole at the end of it, passed over the exterior end of the catheter, and the loose end allowed to hang in a basin, placed between the thighs, will catch the water, which cannot disengage itself from the catheter, and keep the patient dry: or, if another pipe is introduced into the catheter, it will answer the same purpose." (Op. cit. p. 191.) The following, which is the French method of retaining the catheter in the bladder, is the most convenient with which I am acquainted : — "A metallic ring, the circumference of which should be more than sufficient to encircle the penis, is to be covered with cloth, and four long pieces of tape, with the same number of short ones, attached to it, [or the ring may be made of wood and perforated at four separate points, for the reception of the tapes.] This ring, enclosing the penis, is fixed against the pubes by the long pieces of tape, which, surrounding the pelvis in different directions, meet and are tied posteriorly. One of the short pieces is carried through the rings or round the groove of the catheter, on each side ; and being tied to its fellow, fixes the instrument se- curely in the bladder." (See Averiirs Operative Surgery, p. 105.) But there are numerous modes of fixing a catheter, which need not be specified ; for although they are of importance, the principles which should be observed in adopting them are the main things to be understood. These are, first, never to fix a catheter in such a way, that too much of the instrument projects into the cavity of the bladder (^Lallemand, Perforation de la Vessic par les Sondes fixes; Revue Med. Nov. 1822, p. 299J; and, secondly, to be careful, that the thread, or tape, which is applied, will not irritate or make too much pressure upon the parts. Mr. Hej' has offered some good practical re- marks on the introduction of the catheter. If, says he, the point of the catheter be less turned up than the urethra, the point will be pushed against the posterior part of the passage, instead of follow- ing the course of the canal. The posterior part of the urethra has nothing contiguous to it which can support it; and a degree of force not very consi- derable may push the point of the catheter through that part between the bladder and the rectum. If this accident is avoided, still the point will be pushed against the prostate, and cannot enter the bladder. Mr. Hey tells us, that the truth of this is illustrated by the assistance which is derived, whenever the catheter stops at the prostate, from elevating the point of the instrument with a finger introduced in the rectum. He notices the impro- priety of pushing forwards the point of the catheter, before its handle is sufficiently depressed, as the point would move in a horizontal direction, and )e likely to rupture the posterior side of the urethra. Throughout the writings of Sir Benjamin Brodio on this subject, I find the same caution repeatedly given, not to let the catheter press too much upon