AMAUROSIS. 40 cured witliout tlie iris recovering any of its mo- bility, and the pupil remains dilated during the remainder of the patient's life. {Lehre von den Augenkr. b. ii. p. 458.) Richter also states that an amaurosis may be cured which is attended with a pupil extraordinarily dilated and entirely motionless ; and sometimes the disorder proves in- curable, notwithstanding the pupil is of its proper size and capable of motion. The pupil sometimes recovers its moveableness, in the course of the treatment, although nothing succeeds in restoring the eyesight. {Anfangsr. der Wundarzn. b. iii. p. 424, 8vo. Gott. 1795.) However, the continu- ance of the perfect mobility of the pupil is set down by Mr. Middleraore as a favourable symp- tom ; but he would not pronounce a case hopeless in which its mobility is entirely lost. (See J\Iid- dleniore on Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 262.) In some rare instances, amaurotic blindness has been cured by some apparently accidental, or in- deed morbid effect, without any assistance from art ; by liemorrhage from the nose, an intermit- tent fever, a blow on the head, &c. Beer oper- ated successfully upon both eyes of a patient with cataracts, which had been previously depressed too far against the retina, so that their pressure gave rise to amaurosis, which, after continuing eight years, was suddenly removed by the patient's ac- cidentally falling out of bed, and pitching upon the top of his head. {Lehre von den Augenkr. b. ii. p. 450.) The following observations, made by Beer re- specting the prognosis, cannot fail to prove inter- esting. There is a species of amaurosis which gradually diminishes of itself ; for instance, that which arises from hard drinking, or the effect of narcotic poisons, belladonna,opium, hyoscyaraus, &c. Sometimes imperfect amaurosis goes away with- out any assistance from art, in consequence of the accession of some other disease, as an eruption, a discharge of matter from the ear, bleeding from piles, return of the menses, &c. In most cases, when the surgeon is so fortunate as to cure amaurosis, there still continues, for life, a considerable degree of amblyopia, more especially if the amaurosis has been complete. Sometimes by successful treatment, vision is in a great measure, or even entirely, restored in one eye, yet the other remains completely blind ; or one eye sees again much sooner than its fellow, although they were both affected together with an equal degree of blindness. It often happens that, tliough a material degree of vision returns in the course of the treatment, the faculty is restricted to a circumscribed point of the retina, so that the patient is enabled to see objects plainly only when they are held in a particular direction before him ; while, in other directions, they are either quite invisible, or very indistinct. {Beer, Lchrc, von den Augenhr. b. ii. p. 459, 460.) Amaurosis, following an injury of the supra- orbitary nerve, ordinarily resists every endeavour made to relieve it, and this whether it come on directly after the blow, or some weeks subse- quently to the healing of the wo\md of the eye- brow • but it is not alwaj's incurable. One cure is recorded by Valsalva. (Dissert. 2, § 11.) Ad- ditional instances are reported by Hey {Med. Obs. and }m,. vol. v.); by Larrey {Mem. de Chii: Mi/!- taire, t. iv. p. 181.) Mr, Hennen and Mr. Wardrop Loth mention instances in which complete division of the trunk of the nerve on the side nearest to its origin has been followed, in some cases, by complete cure, and in others by a partial restoration of the sight. Perfect, inveterate amaurosis, attended with or- ganic injury of the substance constituting the im- mediate organ of sight, says Scarpa, is a disease absolutely incurable. Imperfeet, recent amaurosis, particularly that which is periodical, is usually curable; for it is mostly dependent upon causes which, though they affect the immediate organ of sight, are capable of being dispersed, without leaving any vestige of impaired organisation in the optic nerve or retina. When amaurosis has prevailed several years in persons of advanced age, whose e3-esight has been v/eak from their youth ; when it has come on slowlj', at first with a morbid irritability of the retina, and then with a gradual diminution of sense in this part, till total blindness was the con- sequence ; when the pupil is motionless, not circu- lar, and not much dilated; when it is widened in such a degree that the iris seems as if it were wanting, and the margin of this opening is irregu- lar and^ jagged ; and when the bottom of the eye, independently of any opacity of the crystalline lens, presents an unusual paleness, like that of horn, sometimes partaking of green, and reflected from the thickened retina, the disease may be generally set down as incurable. Kieser joins Scarpa in representing this alteration as an unfavourable omen, adding, that it only takes place in examples of long standing, and that, when it is considerable, the disease is incurable. Langenbeck differs, how- ever, from both these authors, and particularly from Kieser, assuring us, not only that he has often seen this discoloration of the bottom of the eye in the early stage of amaurosis, but seen patients in this state soon cured. The cases which he has published, in proof of this statement, I have read with care, and find them completely satisfac- tory. Langenbeck agrees with other writers in imputing the appearance to a morbid change of the retina, and the treatment which he prescribes consists in the internal exhibition of the o.xyrau- riate of mercury in small doses, and friction with mercurial ointment on the eyebrow and temple. (See Langenheclcs Neuo Bihl. fur die Chirurgie, b. i. p. 64—69, &c. Gottingen, 1815.) Cases, attended with pain all over the head, and a continual sensation of tightness in the eyeball ; or preceded by a violent, protracted excitement of the nervous system, and then by general debility, and languor of the constitution, as after masturba- tion, premature venery, and hard drinking ; or connected with epileptic fits, or frequent spasmodic hemicrania ; or which are the consequence of vio- lent, long-continued, internal ophthalmia, may be set down as incurable. Nor can any cure be ex- pected, when amaurosis proceeds from a direct blow on, or violent concussion of the eye ; foreign bodies in the eyeball, or exostoses about the orbit; or when it is conjoined with a manifest change in the figure and dimensions of the eyeball. The same judgment is applicable to complete amaurosis from long exposure of the eye to vivid light, or to causes which have been protracted m their injurious effects upon the retina. (Sec R. Middlcmore, vol. ii. p. 274.) Recent, sudden cases, in which the pupil is not