f*^^ HEAD, INJURIES OF THE injuries of the head, the surgeon cannot be too much on h,3 guard during the continuance of a constant localised pam in the head. If the effect of con- tusion in these cases is crafined to a slight extra- vasation of blood into the cellular structure of the pia mater, the blood may be absorbed without any permanent detriment to the functions of the brain; but, if the cerebral neurine is damaged, the pain iisuaJly goes on increasing in violence; a sensation of weight over the region of the forehead comes on, accompanied with dizziness, and restlessness with jactitation takes place; the pulse, at first slow, be- comes hard and frequent, the skin hot and dry, and the countenance flushed and excited; nausea and vomiting, succeeded by shivering, convulsions, and delirium, at once indicate a fatal attack of menin- gitis or phrenitis, and not unfrequently are the cer tain harbingers of suppuration of the brain. Treatment—Two points are especially indicated here, namely, to prevent inflammation, and to ob tam the re-absorption of the efliised blood. To effect these two desirable objects, strictly anti phlogistic treatment is requisite. A free general and local abstraction of blood, the application of ice to the head, drastic purges and enemata, blisters the desire obviously strong; pulse eighty, soft; tongue clean; bowels open; urine copious; the liver itself very prominent, and painful on pressure. " On examining the wound of the head I found an extensive radiating fracture occujjying almost the whole of the left parietal bone; at the centre there was a piece of bone, beat in through the membranes of the brain, and bedded in its sub- stance, but considerably more towards the frontal region than the occipital. The unequal pressure I found to proceed from a musket-ball which was wedged in between the displaced pieces of bone and the portion which though cracked preserved its situation. The separated piece was obviously much more extensive on its internal face than its outer, and could only be removed with the tre- phine. The leaden wedge and several splinters which jammed it in were easily removed; and on making one perforation with a large-sized trephine I removed the depressed portion of bone, which was forced into the brain nearly an inch and a half from the surface of the scalp. No relief followed the operation. He was bled during the night; his breathing became decidedly stertorous. He lay coiled up in the bottom of his bed, the right , , ' jr-'-e--ciicumm, uiisLKis iay cujieu up in lue Dottom ot nis bed, the right to tne nape of the neck, are to be employed with arm stretched out and occasionally convulsed. On energy, and the exhihitmn nf morm,-,, ^„ „„ L,-ij„„„„; t. j rr r . ,. .1 energy, and the exhibition of mercury so as to affect the gums should on no account be omitted. The prognosis in severe cases must be very un- favourable; but who can tell how many cases of simple bruise of the brain may have recovered ? If the contusion be of limited extent, the brain may recover itself, as after a slight apoplectic effusion. It IS very probable the cure may not be complete, and some imperfection of the intellectual faculties may remain, of which some instances have come under our notice, but the ordinary func- tions of life may remain unimpaired. We abstain from the enumeration of cases of recovery after contusion of the brain, because the diagnosis is not sufficiently clear to justify a positive opinion on the subject; but we suspect that a great many cases are clearly of this nature, where loss of memory of names or places, with loss of the power of speech, and other signs continue, which are believed to be the consequence of pressure. It will be suf- ficient to relate a single case, on the authority of Hennen, in which no doubt can be entertained that the surface of the brain had suffered severe contu sion, and in which recovery took place. A Captain B was wounded in the head by a musket-ball at the battle of Waterloo. On approaching the waggon in which he was laid, I was attracted to that part of it where he was stretched, by a low protracted moan, as of a person in pain, but very weak. On calling him by name ne sat up, caught me by the hand, and, pointing to a wound in the head, burst into tears. His countenance was pale and glassy, and his mouth somewhat distorted; his eye languid and suffused with blood; his pulse about ninety, soft and com- pressible. He had been bled previously. His pulse in the night had risen to about a hundred, was hard and bounding, and he was bled in con- sequence. ; A cruciform enlargement of the wound gave a view of an extensive fracture of the loft parietal bone. On my visit I found him with a pale countenance expressive of great pain, referable rold r""'' ^'odily suffering; mouth dis- power of articulating any distinct sound lost, but addressing him he made an effort to rouse himself, but almost immediately relapsed into his former state. A spontaneous bilious diarrhoea took place, and he became more sensible. He made an at- tempt to articulate, and pronounced audibly the letter i. The next morning, the fifth from the receipt of the wound, he was amazingly altered for the better; the diarrhoja continued, and his efforts to speak were continual. On the sixth day he uttered audibly, though with much labour, the monosyllable ' ther,' to which, in the course of tlie day, he added ' o,' and for the next three days, whenever addressed, he slowly, distinctlj-, and in a most pathetic tone, repeated the words ' o-ther,' ' o-ther,' as if to prove his powers of pronunciation. His general appearance amended considerably. I therefore resolved to write to liis family, and before doing so I printed in large cha- racters on a sheet of paper the following words :— ' Shall I write to your mother ?' — that being the wish he so long and ardently had laboured to utter. It is impossible to describe the illumina- tion of his countenance on reading these talis- manic words; he grasped and pressed my hands with warmth, burst into tears, and gave e\ery demonstration of having gained the boon which he bad endeavoured to solicit. " From this period his mental faculties gradually developed themselves; he regained a consciousness of the circumstances immediately preceding his wound, and, in succession, of those of a more re- mote period. The power of speech was the last which he perfectly regained, and for which he usually substituted his thoughts and wishes in writing. He returned to England nearly reco- vered on the ]03rd day from the wound." It may be truly said in reference to this case that the brain, independent of the contusion to wliich it must have been subject, had sufl'ered some degree of laceration from the introduction of the ppicula of bone removed by the trephine; but I notice it here as presenting one of the most marked symptoms of contusion, namely, the com- plete inability to speak, and this evidently not as the result of a want of consciousness, but in all