FnACTURE. Wlien tlie fracture is comminuted, sucli fragments as are perfectly detached, quite exposed, and near the surface, are to be extracted. The second indication is to bring the sides of the wound together, with an adhesive plaster, and after its edges have been approximated, the wound may be covered with wet lint; and if it unite, the com- pound fracture is at once converted into a simple one. With the view of keeping off inflammation, the bandages mny be wetted with cold water. In all leading points, the treatment of compound fractures is like that of simple, with the exception of measures called for by the wound itself; the higher degree of inflammation ; the abscesses; the detached pieces of bone; the splinters, or sequestra; and the more severe constitutional disturbance. The same attention to keeping the ends of the bone in their proper position, and completely at rest, is even more urgently necessary. As the presence of a suppurating wound, and the frequent formation of matter, render it indis- pensable to undo the bandage more frequently than in simple fractures, it should always be a maxim to employ such splints, bandage, or appa- ratus as will admit of this being done, as often as necessary, without any disturbance of the fracture. An apparatus which will allow the surgeon to get at almost any part of the circumference of the limb, is particularly advantageous. Hence the su- periority of M'Intyre's and Greenhow's apparatus, and the use of fractui-e-boxes. While inflammation prevails in a high degree in the early stage of the case, the splints should not be tightly applied, and cold evaporating lotions and leeches may be of great service. Venesection may occasionally be beneficial when the patient is strong and full of blood; and saline purgatives and opium should be given. One rale is to make early openings for the dis- charge of abscesses, and to let them be free and de- pending. Another maxim is to take away sequestra as soon as exfoliation is sufficiently advanced. In tedious severe cases, patients sometimes fall victims to sloughing over the sacrum or trochanters. In the suppurative stage, attended with hectic symptoms, there is an obvious necessity for sup- porting the constitution, by means of tonics, sul- phate of quinine especialh% and light nutritious food and wine. In this stage, opium, pure air, and cleanliness will be of vast importance. Op H.emorrhage in Compound Fractures. Profuse arterial bleeding is chiefly seen in com- pound fractures of the leg; but it may happen in those of the thigh or arm, If a wound of the anterior or posterior tibial artery be conjoined with a violent contusion and extensive laceration °f soft parts, comminution of bone, or long fis- sures of it extending into or near the joint, am- putation will generally be most prudent, In the opposite circumstances, the wound of the artery is not an adequate ground for removing the limb. In the treatment of such an accident, pressure and co?</applications are insufficient, and it is indispens- able to employ the ligature. Then the question is, whether the wounded part of the artery should be ex- posed and tied, or the femoral a.vic\y itself taken up. Dupuytren and Delpcch, instead of adding to the mechanical injury of textures already existin" in the fractured part of the limb, advocated and practised the latter measure with decided success. In this way the bleeding was commanded without any additional disturbance of the broken part of the limb. If we look over the particulars of cases where operations were practised to secure the an- tenor or posterior tibial artery, in compound frac- tures, we shall find that the result has commonly- been mortification of the limb, and the patient's death. However, if the anterior tibial artery were wounded in the lower third of the leg, where its place IS superficial, I think that the plan of secur- ing It here would then be preferable to that of taking up the femoral artery. Op the Formation op Callus, and the Consolidation op Fractures. In the treatment of fractures the whole business of the surgeon consists in putting the displaced ex- tremities of the bone into their natural situation again ;_in keeping them in this position by means of a suitable apparatus ; in endeavouring to avert unfavourable symptoms, and in adopting measures for their removal when they have actually occurred. The consolidation of a broken bou« is the work of nature, and is effected by a process to which a good constitution, with as little disturbance of it as pos- sible, is above all things propitious. The process alluded to is that by which the new bony deposition, or the calbis, as it is termed, which forms the uniting medium, is produced. Surgical writers have been absurdly anxious to specify a determinate space of time which should be allowed for the completion of this process, as if it always went on in different cases with the same uninterrupted regularity. Forty days- were often fixed iipon as necessary for the purpose. This doctrine is not only false, but dangerous, inasmuch as patients have been thereby induced to suppose themselves cured before they were so in reality, and have consequently moved about too boldl)-' and thus run the risk of occasioning deformity, or a new fracture. It is impossible to determine precisely, and in a general way, the period requisite for the cure, because it differs according to a variety of circumstances. 1. Age. Fractures are consolidated, eateris paribus, with more ease and quickness in young subjects than in adults or old persons. In ge- neral, also, the callus forms more speedily in pro- portion as the iiidividual approaches to infancv. In two children whose arms had been broken in difficult labours, De la Motte found the humerus united in twelve days, by a very simple apparatus. In fact, at this period of life every part has a ten- dency to grow and develope itself, and the vitality of the bones is more active, their vascularity greater, their animal matter more abundant. On the con- trary, in advanced age the parts have lost all dis- position to development, and (to use the expression of Boyer) their vitality is nearly annihilated under the mass of phosphate of lime which accumulates in them. 2. Coiislilutioii. A fracture is united much sooner in a strong healthy person than a weak un- iiealthy subject. Sometimes the consolidation is prevented by some inexplicable unknown cause, nothing wrong being remarkable either in the con- stitution or the part. 3. State of Health. Fractures unite with more quickness and facility when the patient enjoys good heahli. Scurvy has a manifest and powerful cifect in retarding the consolidation of i'racturcs,