ANEURISM. ■ ivicle, was that in which Mr. Listen was tho . porator, on the 3rd of April, 1820. The particu- lars of the case prove the risk there always is of tying one of the axillary nerves, instead of the ar- tery, unless great caution be employed ; and, in feet, Mr. Liston himself first passed the ligature under a nerve, and would have tied it, had he not wisely tried what effect constricting the included part would have upon the pulsation of the tumor; a criterion that was never neglected by Dupuy tren in operations for aneurism. As t"' subclavian artery seemed diseased at the point where it emerged from behind the anterior scalenus, Mr. Liston cautiously divided this muscle to about its middle, so as not to injure the phrenic nerve. At length, with the aid of an aneurism-needle, he passed a strong round silk ligature under the ar tery, and, laying hold of the loop with a small hook, withdrew the needle. In consequence of the great depth of the artery, the knot could not be made with ttie fingers; but, with the assistance of a kind of forceps, each extremity of which had i little notch in it, the business was accomplished (See Edin. Med. and Surgical Jourii. No. 64.) When the subclavian artery has emerged from behind the anterior scalenus muscle, it passes ob- liquely over the flat surface of the first rib, with which it is in immediate contact. The cervical nerves are situated above and a little behind the artery: the subclavian vein passes before it, and under- neath the clavicle. If the finger be passed down the acromial margin of the anterior scalenus muscle the artery will be found in the angle, formed by the origin of that muscle from the first rib. The shoulder being drawn down as much as possible, the skin is to be divided, immediately above the clavicle, from the external margin of the clavicular portion of the mastoid muscle to the margin of the clavicular insertion of the trapezius. I think, with Mr. Hodgson, that no advantage whatever can be gained by cutting the clavicular attachment of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus. The exposed fibres of the platysma myoides are now to be carefully divided, without wounding the external jugular vein, which lies immediately under them, near the middle of the incision, and should be detached, and drawn towards the shoulder with a blunt hook. The cellular membrane, in the middle of the incision, is then to be cut, or separated with the finger^ until the surgeon arrives at the acromial edge of the anterior scalenus. He passes his finger down the margin of this muscle, until he reaches the part where it arises from the first rib, and in the angle formed by the origin of the muscle from the rib he will feel the artery. The ligature is now to be conveyed under the vessel with an aneurism- needle, or that recommended by Dcsault. (Iludo- soH, On Diseases of Arteries, cjc. p. 37C, &c.) [The result of the ligature of the subclavian ar- tery in the third part of its course, for spontaneous Miliary aneurism, is as follows:—of 45 cases, there wfre 2.3 cures, and 22 deatlis. This result was N unfavourable, that I have analysed the causes of I' itli, and find them as follows : — Inflammation within the chest . . 9 Suppuration of sac 6 Hemorrhage 2 Gangrene of arm \ General gangrene ] Not stated .' .' 3 20i 22.1 In 181.0, Baron Dupuytren took Up tlie left subclavian artery in the second part of its course, tor the cure of an axillary aneurism, following a stab. This eminent surgeon used to consider this vessel as having three different portions ; the first, e.xtending from its origin from the aorta to the point where it passes between the scaleni ; the second, from its entrance between the scaleni to the point of its quitting the interspace between thern; the third, from the latter point to the upper surface of the first rib. This third portion of the course of the subclavian artery, which in individuals whose necks are long and slender, and whose shoulders are low and thin, is not far beneath its skin, is, on the other hand, very deeply- placed in persons whose necks are thick and short, and whose shoulders are covered with a good deal of flesh. In particular, this portion of the vessel IS also deeply seated, when the clavicle is pushed up by a tumor in the axilla. Dupuytren's patient was in these latter circumstances ; and besides the difficulty which they created to the ligature of this portion of the artery, Dupuytren reckoned that he should have had a good deal of trouble in separa- ting the artery from the brachial plexus of nerves, which, however, in this situation, in reality lie above the vessel, the lowermost one alone lying c ose above it. Now, Dupuytren conceived that the second part of the course of the artery pre- sented the advantage of the vessel passing alone between the scaleni, entirely separated from the subclavian vein, which ran in front of the anterior scalenus muscle, and also from the brachial plexus the nerves of which lay backwards and outwards • consequently, by taking the anterior scalenus musc e as a guide he judged that the artery might be tied, without risk of including any nerve in the ligature. Governed by these reflections, Dupuytren made an mcision on the left side, and at the lower part of the neck, from above downwards, and from within outwards By this the skin, platysma, and subcutaneous cellular tissue were divided, together with three small vessels, which were immediatelv secured. In the continuation of the operation the cellular tissue and absorbent glands contiguous to the artery and brachial plexus were arrived at The external border of the anterior scalenus was sought for, and this muscle completely cut throueh near its insertion, with the aid of a probe-bistoury 1 ho artery was now exposed, and its pulsation roadiiy stopped by the pressure of a finger passed to tlie bottom of the wound. A silver director bent 111 the form of a quarter of a circle, was passed under the artery; and an eye-probe,'armed w h a ligature composed of three silk threads, con- ducted along the groove of the director, and witi - dmwn from the opposite side. Care was now taken to ascertain that the ligature wa rJallv under the artery by pulling al each end of it^ and at he same time pkchig the forefinger on the vessel above it. I„ this manner it was found t m he pulsation of the artery was completely topS I his proceeding, repeated several iimes, was ob^ served not to give the least pain ; „ pi-o^f t at no nerve was included in the ligature. The arterv was now tied; the wound brought together; „nd .0 hmb placed on a pillow, and covered with bass . ed with warm sand This case proved success- liy the sixty-cighth day the tumor was re- duced to one-fifth of its original size. Tlie heat,