COMPLETION OF DR. TODD'S CYCLOP>EDIA OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOCY. Just published, Parts LI. and LIT. (a double part) price 10s. sewed; and Vol. V. (completion) with 487 Woodcuts, price 4:5s. cloth, THE CYCLOPJIDIA OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY Edited by ROBERT B. TODD, M.D. E.R.S. &c. Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians; Physician to King's College Hospital. ^= The Cyclopsedia of Anatomy and Physiology is now complete in five large volumes, pp. 5,350, illustrated with 2,853 Woodcuts. The Publishers of this important loork have decided on offering complete sets in 6 volumes (Voii. IV. heinff in two parts], hound in cloth, at the price of SIX GTJINB AS for the set. The separate parts will still he sold at 5*. each ; but subscribers are requested to perfect their sets without delay, as the Fnhlishers cannot he answerable, beyond a certain, time, for the supplying of separate parts. IN an age of unprecedented activity in the cultivation of the physical sciences the annornieeinent of the eompletion of so important a work as the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Phy- siology cannot fail to engage the interest of the literary and scientific world. Commenced twenty- fours ago, it has been found to have involved a far larger amount of research and rigid scrutiny, and hence to have rendered necessary a more ex- tensive publication, than was in the first instance contemplated. The Sciences of Anatomy and Physiology compre- hend no less wide a range than all the known facts and laws, of all organised structm'es—animal and vegetable; from those of the primary simple cell, to those of the highest and most complex of beings, Man;—not less extended is the scope of this work. So vast a disi rict of the realm of science cannot, it is obvious, be eflioiontly cvdtivated by any one indi- vidual, be his intellectual power never so great. By the co-operation of many labourers, each exploring his own favourite region, much that has heretofore been unknown is bro\ignt to light, much that has hitherto been obscure is made clear; fresh additions are continually accruing to our stock of knowledw, fresh discoveries constantly elucidating or modi- fying the theories of science. Favoured by such a division of labour, the editor has been enabled to bring successfully to a termination his long and difficult undertaking. In its execution the editor and bis fellow-labourers arc sensible that they have achieved a work which concerns not only one pro- fession, but which must affect the pursuits of all students of organisation —and which shall bo of service to all lovers of nature. Within the period that has elapsed since this work was commenced, eveiy animal and vegetable tissue has been scrutinised by the nncroscoiiist and the chemist; so great, indeed, arc the additions that have been nuvde to our stock of knowledge, tliat minute or microscopic anatomy, or IIistoloov, may be said to have been origiinited. So rapid have been the advances which physical science has made within the last r|uarter of a century, that most, if not all, the formerly received doctrines of pliysiology have reciuired revision, while its " estalilislied'' facts have demanded ro-investigation by original experiment. The result has been that through the medium thus afforded for publication, a series of monographs by contributors of the highest eminence is presented to the public It IS not too much to claim for this publication the formation of an epoch in the history of physio- logical science—by having brought to an exact point the latest advances of physiology, it has founded archives m wlilch ai'e deposited documents by which future inquirers may be guided,: A brief statement of the general scheme of this work will suffice to show its comprehensive charac- ter- It mcludes the descriptive anatomy of man, a sketch of every individual member and organ of the human body; the topograpliical or sm-gical anatomy of man, denoting the parts, boundaries, and relations ot those regions of the human body which most fre- quently become, through accident or disease, the seat of sm-gical operations: the department of anatomy termed general" or " physiological," in vvhich are examined the particular tissues by which individual members and organs are built up. It is 111 this department of anatomy that the greatest changes have been made through the comparatively modern use of the microscope, and through the iii- ycstigations of chemists. Not restricted, liowever to the anatomy of man, this work embraces also descriptions of the structure of the various classes of the animal kingdom ; of the several systems of organs traced throughout these classes, from the lowest to the highest, through all tlioir modifl- cations-constituting the scienco of " Comparativo Anatomy." Under the title of "Pliysiolo''v" this work oilers a series of elaborate essays" on the functions wliidi distinguish (n-ganisation, both in the animal and vegetable kingdoms — in which moreover, are taught the modes by which we live and move, and have our being. Lastly, an aooomit ol the chemical coinposition of animal and vegetable structures, together with the properties and attri- butes ol their varied constituents. As a giiaranteo of the accuracy and care with which each article has been prepared, as well as for lis intrinsic value it may be added that I he list of contributors to tins Cycloptedia includes the names o nearly all thq most distinguished cullivators of physiological Boicnco in the present age. London: LONaMAN, GREEN, and CO. Paternoster Row.