m thick tuft of red vessels ; these ulcers do notpcne- mte tlu-ongli the substance of the cornea, but they are very intractable, and indicate a strumous diatnesis. Another modification of this disease is the follownig:—A patch of red vessels is seen on the outer part of tlie eye, near the cornea ; it is elevated, of a deep red colour, and rather laro-e • it seems to have no tendency to form pustule, vesicle or nicer ; it .s apparently situated in the subconiunc- tiyal tissue, where a distinct plexus of capillary ves- sels may be noticed, organising a fibrinous deposit. Tlie conjunctival vessels over it are also enlarged ■ It does not involve contiguous tissues and prod^uces but little disturbance to the eye ; it is rather rare- It occurs between the age of thirty and forty, and seems to depend upon an asthenic condition of system. It is very persistenf and disobedient to treatment, and it is important to distinguish it trom_ the more common forms when givino- an opinion as to its probable duration. ° Mr. Dixon when speaking of the treatment of pustular op ithalmia, remarks:-" Independently of any medical meanswhich the patient's general health may require, the true pustular ophthalmia com- monly yields to very simple treatment. Aweak tepid lotion of acetate of lead, twice or thrice a day, and there be any intolerance of light, a small blister to the temple, comprise all that is usually requisite " (Consult also Slade, OpMhdmia, p. 23. London CONJUNCTIVITIS. 10 90 n ™, ' jj. i^o, xjunaon. 7V? 7;,^°'^'f""'' ^'■'^'i^ P^"losopMqua et Clinigue d Ophthahnologie, p. 275. Paris, 1844; D&smarres, Jratte Theouque et Pratique des Maladies des Yeux. 1855.) Cartarrhal Opltthalmia.—This is one of the most common diseases of the conjunctiva. It usually commences in the conjunctiva lining the lids, and gradually spreads to the ocular portion ; the mem- brane IS highly injected; the minute vessels and the secreting surface being involved in the iniSam- mation, so as to present a nearly uniform red colour. The arrangement of the blood vessels wherever it can be traced, is reticular. In severe cases you may observe small patches of "ecchj'- mosis," from the giving way of some little vessel, and also occasionally some swelling of the mem- brane round the margin of the cornea, from effu- sion benoHth, giving rise to that symptom called chemosis." The ordinary secretion is increased 111 quantity and altered in quality, becoming thick, glutinous and niuco-puruleiit. It collects round the lids and at the inner canthus, and causes the lids to adhere, particularly after sleep. There is a complete absence of intolerance of light, which forms a curious contrast with the severity of the other symptoms, and distinguishes this ifrom all other forms of ophthalmia. The cornea appears sometimes dull on the surface; this is occasioned by the smearing of the discharge, and not by any thange m the cornea itself; the eyelids also ap- pear rather red and swollen, particiilailv near the margin. These are the principal objective symp- toms Th(. patient at the same time complains of iiteclmg of .sand or grittiness in the eyes, together witli lioat and fulness ; these symptoms are always considerably aggravated towards night, and arc often -^ery distressing, giving the impression to the suflcrer 01 a much more formidable disease than really cvists llie sight IS sometimes rather dim, but this is en- tirely owing to the smearing of the thick mucn- pmulent di.scharge over the surface of the cornea This affection is very rarely attended with anv constitutional symptoms. • The causes of this afi-ection arc obscure - ex posure to damp and cold, and to a ^oZZ i\Z and even local injury, will sometiLs produ e a tiain of symptoms similar to those just described It IS very probable that it resembles other ept demics, in that it owes its origin to atmospher e least, to contagion. It has been observed that wnen he disease has been improperlv treated ind he course I have just described, the dischargt becomes aqueous, and it assumes all the dm^c- teristics of simple sub-acute ophthalmia. 1 his disease maybe cured rapidly and almost invariably by local stimuli; and oflhese bj fo the best IS a weak solution of the nitrate of silver in s rength about two grains to the ounce of dis- tilled water, gradually increased to si.-c grains If applied in the enrly stage, however sevei^ and well marked the disease may be, it will generally ubside m a few days, the time for cure required being pretty accurately measured by the interval between the first development of the disease and * the commencement of the remedy. As for ex- ample, if the treatment be commenced' on the third day it will be well by the sixth dav, and so on. The solution of nitrate of silver should be carefu ly dropped into the eye with a camel's hair brush or a quill, and may be repeated every three or four hours, in severe cases. It causes slight smarting at first, which rapidly subsides, and then the patient feels great relief. Mr. Dixon remarks, on tlie treatment of this disease :-« It is in this purely conjunctival form of catarrhal ophthalmia that the application of nitrate of silver is of such remarkable utilitv When the sclerotica is much injected, or there "is any rheumatism present, as evinced bv the pink zone around the cornea, tenderness of the globe pain about the orbit, and neuralgia throughout the branches of the fifth nerve, the nitr.-Tte of silver is contra-indicated, at least until the affec- tion of the fibrous tissues has been subdued by appropriate treatment. It is from a want of duly discriminating between the purely conjunctival form of catarrhal ophthalmia, and that i'n which the sclerotic and cornea are also affected, that manv surgeons have been disappointed at the effect of the treatment by nitrate of silver. As for consti- tutional treatment, the common sense of the sur- geon must teach him to keep his patients on the proper level in these matters, and not to stuff or starve them indiscrimiiiatelv, in accordance with any scientific theory of disease." Consult also lc/2)ea!t, Manuel Fnrfiguedes Mn/adicsdcs JW p. 180. Paris, 1040 ; Assulini, AFanualc di Chi'- rnryia, parte ii. p. 117. Milaiui, 1812; DavcHi;. Parisc, Hi/ffihieOculairr,p.]9. Pari.t,l823; Spain hjl Henrii D. Imjlis, vol ii. p. 223. Lomlo,,, 1837 ; BiMio/Iicque Ophlhulmologiqiic, t. i. p. 81. Paris, 1820 ; IMinhurgh Medical and Snrqical Journal] vol. ii. p. 411, 1816 ; also Medical'and P/n/sical Journal, vol. iv. p. 327. London, 1826. Purulent Ophthalmia.—Purulent and gonorrheal ophthalmia are grouped together, because there is no important practical distinction between the two, either as regards the symptoms or tlie treatment. The disease will be considered, in the first jilace, as it is found in adults, and, secondly, as it occurs in