wards, of which there is scarcely an example known without fracture of the fibula. In the dislocation outwards, however, M. Malgaigne foimd, that out of the twenty-two cases, as many as eight were unaccompanied by fracture of either bone ; while six were attended with fracture of both bones four with fracture of the fibula only ; and two with fracture of the tibia only ; one with fracture of the astragalus only ; and one with fracture of the tibia, astragalus, and os calcis, the fibula re- maining uninjured. The dislocation of the bones of the leg outwards is caused either by a forced inversion of the foot, or by external violence, such as a heavy weight falling upon the ancle, or the wheel of a carriage passing over it. When produced by inversion, the fibula is probably, as Dupuytren explained, first fractured, and then either the internal malleolus breaks also, or the internal lateral ligament is torn. According to Sir A. Cooper, "the internal malleolus is obliquely fractured and separated from the shaft of the bone. The fractured portion sometimes consists only of the malleolus, at others the fracture passes obliquely through the articular surface of the tibia, which is thrown forwards and outwards upon the astragalus, before the malleolus internus. The astragalus is sometimes fractured, and the lower extremity of the fibula is broken into several splinters." Sir A. Cooper does not seem to have been aware that BO large a proportion of these dislocations is unat- tended with any fracture whatever, or that not un- frequently the fibula is fractured alone. Two cases, however, are recorded by him of compound dislo- cation outwards without fracture of either bone. Another was observed by Mr. Listen, in University College Hospital. A similar case, unattended with woimd in the skin, has been recorded byM.Keisser. (See Malgaigne, Traili des Fract. ^c. t. ii. p. 1006.) With respect to the symptoms, " the foot is thrown inwards, and its outer edge rests upon the ground. The malleolus externus projects the integuments very much outwards, and forms so decided a prominence that the nature of the injury cannot be mistaken." (On Dislocations, p, 181, ed. 10.) In the compound dislocation, the fibula, and sometimes the tibia also, protrude through the skin on the outer side of the ancle. If the fibula is fractured, the upper fragment protrudes, together with the tibia, and the outer malleolus remains attached to the astragalus. This is the state of parts which Dupuytren and Boyer, and some modern writers have so strangely described as a dislocation of the foot outwards / although the fibula is invariably prominent exter- nally, and if the dislocation is compound, it is in- variably on the outer side that one or both bones of the leg are projected through the integuments.] Reduction.—The reduction is accomplished by relaxing the muscles of the calf, making extension in the axis of the leg, and pressing the lower end ol the tibia inwards towards the astragalus. When the dislocation is not compound, " the limb is to be laid on its outer side, resting upon a splint with a foot-piece, and a pad is to be placed upon the fibula just above the outer ancle, and extending a few inches upwards, so as in some measure to raise that portion of the leg, and prevent the tibia and fibula slipping from the astragalus, as well as lessen the pressure of the malleolus externus on the integuments." {Surg. .Essat/s, part ii. p. 113.) DISLOCATION. Sir A. Cooper also enjoins paying the strictest attention to hindering the foot from being twistetl inwards, or pointed downwards. [M'Intyre's apparatus is as applicable to this as to the dislocation of the tibia inwards, and the reader is referred to the remarks already made on the subject in treating of that dislocation. The reduction is sometimes attended with con- siderable difficult}'. Mr. Cock relates a case in which the foot was perfectly immoveable, and refused to yield to any extension in any direction whatever. The tendo Achillis was tense, and there was pain in the calf of the leg. Mr. Cock divided the tendo Achillis, after which the same manipulation was resorted to, and the foot soon yielded and became straight. It was impossible, however, quite to complete the reduction, as the malleolus externus could not be brought into accurate apposition withtheoutersideofthe astraga- lus. It was believed that the peronei tendons had been torn from their attachments to the lower extre- mity of the fibula, and had become placed on the inner side of the malleolus externus, so that they in- tervened betweenthetwobones,and prevented their approximation. The patient recovered the use of the foot, and left the hospital in about seven weeks. (See Guy's Hasp. Reports, 1855.)] 3. Dislocation of ilia tibia forivards, or of tlie foot backwards; usually accompanied by fracture of the fibula.—[The dislocation of the tibia forwards may be complete or incomplete. The latter is the more frequent of the two. " The accident," says Sir A. Cooper, " arises from a fall of the bodj-- back- wards whilst the foot is confined, or if a person jumps from a carriage in rapid motion, with the foot pointed forwards." M. Malgaigne thinks it probable that some lateral torsion of the foot, which facilitates the fracture of the fibula, may take place at the moment of, or immediately previous to, the dislocation.] According to Dupuytren a complete dislocation of the lower end of the tibia forwards cannot hap- pen without the fibula being first broken, and either the base of the malleolus internus fractured, or its point torn away. The foot being thus acted upon by the extensor and flexor muscles, and unretained by the malleoli and their ligaments, yields to the powerful operation of the muscles of the calf; the astragalus passing behind the tibia, while this pro- jects forwards under the tendons and skin of the instep. {Dupuytren, Aiinuairc Mid. Chir, p. 187, 4to. Paris, 1819.) ".The foot," says Sir A. Cooper, "is of course much shortened, the heel lengthened and firmly fixed, and the toes point downwards. The lower extremity of the tibia forms a hard projection upon the upper part of the middle of the tarsus, under the displaced tendons, and there is a depression be- neath the tendo Achillis. Upon dissection the tibia is found to rest upon the upper surface of the 03 naviculare and os cuneiforme internum, quitting all the articulatory surfnce of the astragalus, ex- cepting a small portion of its fore part, against which the tibia is applied. The fibula is broken about three inches above the ancle, and its frac- tured end advances with the tibia, and is placed by its side ; but its malleolus externus remains in its natural situation. The capsular ligament is torn through in its fore part. The deltoid ligament 3 only partially lacerated, and the three ligaments