302 CA-b line of demarcation." The first subvariety (a) Globular scirrhus, seldom is larger tlian a nut or hen's egg, it is continuous with the mammary gland, and as it grows involves the skin, which as- sumes a grej- or speckled aspect. It is pretty easy to ascertain its limits. (6) Ramose, or Arborescent scirrhus extends itself like roots amidst the neighbouring organs. The fibrous tissue, inter woven with and around the gland, seems to be indurated, and to have undergone the ligneous transformation. " Thence arises an irregu- lar, hard, ill-circumscribed tumor, which becomes lost insensibly towards the skin, or towards the circumference of the mamma, in the form of rays, bridles, irregular septa, or divergent cords." This species, with its central nucleus, from which the radii proceed, gave origin to the name cancer, the appearance presented being not unlike that of the bod}' of a crab and its claws. On a section being made, the mamma is found partitioned by hard laj'ers, lardaceous, and creaking under the knife. These often stretch far up into the axilla, or in other direc- tions ; they do not so much seem to result from a new growth as from a transformation of the normal elements of the part. Removal is very difficult. (c) Teyumeniary scirrhus, or in the form of a breast- plate (en euirasse). This subvariety sometimes occurs as a single disc, sometimes at various points of the skin, each tolerably distinct from the other. " In the first variety, the integuments are hard to the touch, roughened, stiff, thickened, of a reddish tint, and of a stencilled grey colour, which is alto- gether abnormal." They look as if tanned, or like a portion of stiff leather. In the second sub- variety, the plates are smaller, and disseminated, but of the same characters. On section it is easily seen that the skin is the exclusive seat of the disease, and that in degenerating it has (some- times doubled in thickness) acquired a density like the hide of a pig, or some large animal. The patches of disease, at first small in size, attract little attention ; afterwards, as they enlarge, they fuse together, " forming plates of larger and larger extent, and sometimes even a regular cuirass." After a time, pain and heat are felt in the diseased part, with general distress and anxiety; " and still later, the respiration becomes difficult, the move- ments of the chest are interfered with ; it appears as if surrounded with an iron girdle, which, becom- ing smaller and smaller, threatens to stifle the un- fortunate patient. Death, indeed, does sometimes occur in this way, the respiratory movements being no longer possible, but often also in the way of exhaustion from ulceration, with discharge taking place at various points. This peculiar form of cancer is seldom confined to the integuments throughout, it may even commence as such in the deeper parts. It is sometimes associated with one of the other forms. All surgical treatment is useless. (d) Ligneous scirrhus en masse.—A large portion on the whole of the mammary gland seems to be attacked at once ; the breast in the space of two months may acquire the density of cartilage, " with- out undergoing any marked change in form." The secreting tissue is always the primary seat of the disease. (e) Atrophic scirrhus forms a "tumor, some- times flattened and tolerably accurately limited, at others somewhat lobulated, or furnished with roots, presenting a depression towards the skin of greater or less extent, which proceeds to increase in size until it ulcerates, or becomes excoriated." The nipple becomes retracted, and the integuments mottled, and then buried in the tumor. It is often exceedingly chronic, lasting ten — twenty years, and almost invariably occurs at an advanced period of life. Ulceration is very gradual, and may be interrupted by temporary cicatrisation. (/) Tuberculous {pustule-like) scirrhus. — The size of the tubercles varies from that of a pin's head to that of a hazel-nut. Their number may be four or five, or as many hundred. They may have their seat on the surface of the skin, in its texture, in the subcutaneous tissue, or in the glandular parenchyma. They somewhat resemble the pustules of ecthyma, only that they have no tendency to softening or ulceration. (g) Scirrhus of the lactiferous duets.—The ex- istence of this form is not positively determined by M. Velpeau, but seems to be very probable. " Externally, as regards the integuments, it is not distinguishable from ordinary scirrhus." The cut surface of one is described as being covered with a large number of open orifices, which admitted a probe. Some of these were thus followed to the root of the nipple, so that M. Velpeau was con- vinced they were really the excretory ducts. All the other constituents of the part were indurated, changed in character, as in scirrhus, In this case, no recurrence had taken place at the end of a 3'ear; but in another similar one fresh cancerous forma- tion appeared around the cicatrix at the expiration of a few months. I have e.x-amined one instance of labial cancer in which gland tubes appe.ired to be distended by a cell growth containing numerous cancer nuclei. (II.) Lardaceous scirrhus appears " in the form of hemispherical tumors, somewhat irregular, or slightly lobulated on the surface. For a long time the tumor remains independent of the skin, and even of the subcutaneous structure; a large part of the mamma is usually at once affected, and the swelling is continuous, without anj' line of demar- cation whatever with the glandular parenchj-rna." The density is less than that of ligneous scirrhus, and there is at first no tendency to pucker or re- tract. On section, the part affected appears some- what marbled, and presents shades of a light brown, yellow, white, or reddish white. It is with some difliculty that a little "sue cancereux " can be expressed from it. Its progress is mpid ; it returns after removal with the greatest obsti- nacy, and is most certainly fatal, but does not at first affect the general health much. M. Velpeau concludes by remarking that the.=e difterent varieties of scirrhus are but slightly dis- tinguished from each other in their commencement and in their termination, as also in their intimate nature. In their middle period, however, they present well-marked difll'rential characters. The best account I have found of the ulcemtion occurring in scirrhus is that given by Mr, Paget, of which I subjoin an abridgment. There are two principal modes, " in one of these tiie ulceration begins superficiall)', and extends inwards; in the other, the changes leading to ulceration begin in the substance of the cancer, and thence make pro- gress outwards." In the first, as the skin becomes infiltrated by the cancer, it becomes highly con- gested, afterwards more and more thinned as the aincer gradually replaces it, until at last it is all