FR^NUM LlNGUiE. 7C3 with fracture of the astragalus or malleoli. M. Malgaigne mentions two cases in which both cal- c.iuea were simultaneously fractured. (See Traiti lies Frad. t. i. p. 831.) A case of fracture of the 03 calcis from a fall on the heel, which was under the care of Mr. Ure at St. Marj''s Hospital, has been recorded by Mr. Gascoyen, then one of the house-surgeons. The fracture was situated beneath the astragalus, at about the junction of I the posterior two-thirds with the anterior third of the bone. There was unnatural mobility of the heel, and crepitus was obtained by moving it Literally, and also by holding the heel and flexing the ankle. The parts were kept steady by paste- board splints, but he was unable to walk at all till more than six weeks after the accident, and it was not till the end of three months that the splints could be dispensed with. At that time firm union was found to have taken place, with a great deposit of callus below and in front of the malleoli, which somewhat interfered with the movements of the joint. Mr. Gascoyen mentions two other cases of fracture of the os calcis from falls on the heel treated at St. Mary's Hospital ; in one the fracture was situated at the junction of the posterior two- thirds with the anterior third of the bone, in the other the posterior and upper extremity was sepa rated from the rest of the bone. (See Med.-CMr Trans, vol. xxxix. p. 282, 1856.) In this form of fracture, the heel is not usually displaced by the action of the muscles of the calf; the apparatus, therefore, which has been recom^ mended fur the fracture by muscular action, is not required. It is sufficient to keep the foot quiet by means of lateral sphnts, or on a M'lntyre's apparatus, till the inflammation has'subsided, and then to encase it in pasteboard until consolidation has taken place. Some stiffness of the neighbour- ing joints will remain for a longer or shorter period.] [Fractures op the Metatarsal Bones, and of the phalanges of the toes.] [Fractures of the metatarsal bones are rare; they are usually produced by direct violence applied to tlie dorsum of the foot. They are often compound and comminuted, and the injury of the bones and soft parts may be such as to necessitate amputa- tion. There may be little or no displacement, especially if only one or two of tlie central bones are broken; but when it does take place the anterior fragments are usually depressed towards the sole of the foot. The foot should be kept at rest, and steadied by a splint of pasteboard or gutta-percha; if the dis placement just alluded to should be present, an attempt may be made to remedy it by making pressure with a compress on the sole of the foot. Fractures of the phalanges of the toes ure usually compound or comminuted, and require amputation In a simple fracture, a narrow bandage stilfenod with starch will answer every purpose. In compound fracture, when there is hope of saving the toe, it should be fixed tipon a narrovv splint of pasteboard or wood placed imder its plantar sur- face. Several writers have remarked that frae tares of the great toe are often followed by symptoms disproportionately severe, such as swell ing of the foot and leg, inllammation of the absor- bents, the formation of abscesses, &c.] James li. Lane, For Fractures of tlie Cranium, see Head, Injuries- of- For information on fractures grenerally, consult J. L. Petit, Traill des Maladies des Os, 8vo. Paris, 1723, et nouv. ed. par M. Louis, 2 t. 12rao. 1707. Du- verncy, Traits des Maladies des Os, 8vo. Paris, 1751. Jonathan Wathen, The Conductor and Containing Splints; or, a Description of two new-invented Instru- ments, for the more safe Conveyance, as well as the more easy and perfect Cure, of Fractures of the Leg-, 2d ed. 8vo. Lond. 1767. W. Sharp, in vol. Ivii. of the Philosopliical Trans, part ii. 1767. Pott,On Fractures and Dislocations, 2d ed. 1773. T. Kirkland, Obs. upon Pott's General Remarks on Fractures, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1770; also. Appendix to the same, 8vo. Lond. 1771. Cases in Surgery, by C. White, edit. 1770. J. Aitken, Essays on several Important Subjects in Sursrery, chiefly on the Nature of Fractures of the Lonff Bones of the Extremities, 8vo. 1771. Boyer, Traite des Mai. Chir. t. iii. CEuvres Chir. deDe^an/^, par Bichat, t. i. Parts of the Parisian Chir. Journal. Sir J. Earle, Obs. on Fractures of the Lower Limbs ; to which is added an Account of a Contrivance to administer Cleanli- ness and Comfort to the Bed-ridden, or Persons con- fined to Bed by Age, Accident, Sickness, or other Infirmity, 8vo. Lond. 1807. Assalini, Manuale di Cbir- urgia. parte prima, Milano, 1812. M. le Baron Duptiy- tren, Des Fractures ou Courhures des Os des Enfans, in Bulletin de la Faculty de M(5d. Paris, 1811. Idem, Sur la Fracture de I'Extr^mit^ inf^rieure du P^rond, les Luxations, et les Accidens qui en sont la suite, iu Annuaire M^d. Chir. de Paris, 4to. Paris, 1819. Also, On Fractures of Various Bones, in Le9ons Orales de Clin. 4 tomes, 8vo. Paris, 1832—1834. M. lloux, Ke- lation d'uu Voyage fait h Loudres en 1814, ou Paral- l&le de la Chir. Angloise avec la Chir. rran90ise, p. 173, &c. Paris, 1815. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. ii. p. 47, &c.; vol. V. p. 358, &c.; vol. vii. p. 103. Sketches of the Medical Schools of Paris, by J. G. Crosse, p. 87, &c. Sir Asilcy Cooper, On Dislocations and Frac- tures of the Joints, 4to. Lond. 1822; and Obs. on Fractures of the Neck of the Thigh-bone, 1823. H. Earle. Practical Obs. in Surgery, 8vo. 1823. W. Gib- son's Institutes and Practice of Surgery, 8vo. vol. i. Philadelphia, 1824. Sir C. Bell, On Injuries of the Spine and Thigh-bone, 4to. Lond. 1824. J. Ames- bury, On Fractures of the Upper Third of the Thigh- bone, and Fractures of long standing, ed. 2. 8vo. Lond. 1829. G. W.IIind, a Series of Plates, illus- trating the Causes of Displacement in the Various Fractures of tlie Bones of the Kxtreraities, fol. 1835. [Edward F. Lonsdale, Practical Treatise on Frac- tures, Lond. 1838. J. F. Malgaigne, Traits des Frac- tures et des Luxations, t. i. 1847, and t. ii. 1855, avec un Atlas de xxx. Planches. Chelitts, System of Sur- gery, translated by J. F. South, Lond. 1847. R. W. Smith, On Fractures and Dislocations, Dublin, 1847. F. II. Hamilton, Practical Treatise on Fractures and Dislocations, Philadelphia, I860.] FRiENUM LINGUiF.. In infants, the tongue is sometimes too closely tied down, by reason of the frcenum being extremely short, or continued too far forwards. In the latter case, the child will not be able to use its tongue with sufficient ease in the actions of sucking, swallowing, &c., in con- sequence of its piiint being confined at the bottom of the mouth. Though this affection is not unfrc- qnent, it is less common than is generally supposed by parents and nurses. When the child is small, and the nurse's nipple large, it is common for her to suppose the child to be tongue-tied, when, in fact, it is only the sniallness of the child's tongue that prevents it from surrounding the nipple, so as to enable it to suck with facility. Mothers also commonly suspect the existence of such an erro- neous formation whenever the child is long in be- ginning to talk. The reality of the case may always be easily ascertained by examining the child's mouth. In the natural state, the point of the tongue is always capable of being turned upward towards the palate, as the frajnum docs not reach within a quarter of an inch of the lower part of the tongue from the