, , , , CICATRISATION comp .shed by the exudation and development of yniph without inflammation, the process seem . Hn/of '•, ^^^y^' °f ly"'Ph dries into .1 iund of skin, or ci-ust, under which a succeeding layer developes itself into cuticle. The newlv formed cut.cle is succeeded by fresh formations from the vascu ar surface beneath it, that is to say, from the lymph which has formed a connective tissue uniting the deeper parts of the wound. When suf' licient cuticle has been fomed to admit of the na- timil process of exfoliation, the outside crust comes oiF, revealing a tender red surface or line, corre- sponding to the surface of the new reparative tissues. In the case of a wound or ulcer which has been the seat of inflammatory exudation, the process of cicatrisation is much slower. It consists n the gradual exudation of lymph, part of which becomes vascular and forms gmmlations, whilst part degenerates into pus; and when the granula- tions have increased to a certain extent, then their khealed™' '""^""^ ^""^ '° In order that this may be accomplished, several conditions are necessary. I„ the first place, all mflamraation must cease, and there must be no Iresh inflammatory exudation ; on the contrary, one of the earhest signs of the healing of a wound IS the decrease of swelling and the absorp- tion ot exudations in the surrounding parts, inso- much that the wound may be reduced to one half ot Its former size before one particle of new cicatrix be formed. It is evident that this must be the case so soon as the subcutaneous and other tissues are re leved of infiltration and swelling, and the skin allowed to recover its natural elasticity. _ In the next place, the lymph exuded and formed in 0 granulations, besides being in a state of vas- cular tranquillity, without hyper£emia and inflam- matory exudation, must be endowed witli the themical composition and "vital properties" re- quisite for the development into epithelium. If not the surgeon must make the requisite alteration in the condition of the blood by diet, iron, bark, and the other remedies spoken of in the article on Ul- cers Weak and Indolent, Scrofula, &c. Then, again, the granulating surface must not be subjected to local conditions which may irritate or poison, or disturb it. The pressure of the blood must be taken off if requisite by rest and an ele- vated posture, or must be counteracted by a band- iige. The local applications must be calculated to agree with" the surface; and it will be shown under the head of Wounds and Ulcers, how some granulations do best if absolutely not inter- fered with, whilst others will not cicatrise without the application of some mineral or vegetable astringent. _ So soon, however, as every requisite condition IS present the work of cicatrisation begins. The sore contracts ; the edge, instead of being abruptly flehned is smoothed off; it dips downwards, and is uiended as it were with the surface of the granula- tions ; and then begins a bluish white line, which fciaaually widensand extends from the circumference, over the surface of the sore, and which consists mZ .J ''"r and tender cuticle. As the to cftn'" ^T' °J g'-^ni'I'^'ions developes itself issl !^° connective c Hv 1 """^'-'''^'^ incessantly, so that the _ It is from the edge of the sore tliat the cicatris- ing process spreads, for it seems as if the ^ pulse n SrtSrtrTo'" "f"^'' by the'^k to countenance the idea that the centre of'a sorc' has the power of originating cuticle as well as the edges But in cases like these it is certain that the who e thickness of the cutis has not lee„ de- stroyed throughout, and any fragment that remains trisation ^""^^^ commencing the work of cica- Not only does cicatrisation seem to depend on he natm-al skm for its origin, but it also seems to advance to any distance from it with great slowness and difficulty. The last portions of surface are always more tedious in healing than the first. l<rom this It maybe understood how great an obstacle the size and shape of a sore may present to the healing process. As Sir A. Cooper remarked, a sore of circular form, cceteris paribus, will always be longer in healing than another of much greater length, but less diameter. It may be seen further how important it is to save plenty of skin in opera- tions, and not to leave more surface to be covered in by granulations than can possibly be helped Everything, too, which hinders that contraction wliich nature in her wise economy employs in order to abridge the cicatrising process, is equally a hindrance to the completion of the reparative process. Hence, recovery is notoriously tedious after burns, and after the destruction of large tracts of skin by nitric acid in the American cancer cure Because in these instances the subcutaneous areolar tissue has been destroyed, and so the cicatrix in- stead of resting on that natural basis, which allows of a ghding movement, and so permits the skm to be drawn together from every side, is, from the tirst, glued down to the surface of the fascia beneath, and is unable to move. The same thino- occurs when extensive portions of skin have been lost from over the shin, or from the scalp. Moreover, it is as Mr. Paget observes, an error to speak of the " filling up " of a chasm with gra- nulations ; for nature is as sparing in the depth as she IS in the breadth of cicatrices. "In the deepest open wounds," says Mr. Paget, "the granu- lation layer is but from one to three lines thick • and when such a wound grows shallower in heal- ing, it is not by the rising of the granulations, but by the lowering of its margins. The granulations and the scars of deep open wounds remain alike thin and depressed." ' A recently formed cicatrix is reddish, tender and covered with a delicate cuticle, and consists under the cuticle of connective or areolar tissue in an imperfect state of development. Even though a cicatrix of the skin only, it is more adherent than natural to the fascia beneath ; whilst, as before said, if the subcutaneous areolar tissue has been destroyed, it will be adherent to the bone or fascia beneath. But in the course of weeks, or months, or years, there ensues a process of shrinking, of accommoda- tion, and of perfecting of tissue. The scars become paler, then of a dense bloodless Avhite—a change which is but too familiar after small-pox. It ac- quires the characters of more perfect lihrous tissue, and the elastic fibres are developed in it; the cuticle becomes more perfect ; the subcutaneous portion looser, and more like natiiml areolar tissue