966 HERNIA. be two strictures, viz. one at each opening, (See Lawrence, On Ruptures, p. 183, edit, 3.) In the foregoing part of this article, I have briefly adverted to the doctrine that the upper part of the inguinal canal is endowed with muscu- larity, " The lower edge of the transversalis muscle (observes Sir Astley Cooper) has a very peculiar insertion, which 1 have hinted at in my work on hernia. It begins to be fixed into Poupart's ligament, almost immediately below the commencement of the internal ring, and it con- tinues to be inserted behind the spermatic cord into Poupart's ligament, as far as the attachment of the rectus [and into Gimbernat's ligament]. Thus the inguinal canal is endowed with mus- cular contraction, which, under the action of the abdominal muscles, serves to close it and lessen the propensity to hernia. Sometimes a portion of muscle descends from the tendon of the transver- salis, in the course of the linea semilunaris, to be inserted into the fascia transversalis behind the cord, and into Poupart's ligament. It is this cir- cular insertion of the transversalis which is the cause of stricture in inguinal hernia, in the course of the canal, and nearly at the upper ring, " Behind this insertion of the transversalis muscle the internal portion of the fascia transversalis ap- pears, adhering strongly to the tendon of that muscle at the back of the inguinal canal. " Thus the inguinal canal is, at its anterior part, formed by the tendon of the external oblique; at its posterior, by the tendon of the transversalis, and by its folded muscular fibres, behind which is the fascia transversalis, into which those fibres are also inserted," (See Obs. on the Structure and Diseases of the Testis, p, 35, 4to, Lond. 1830.) [The anterior boundary of the inguinal canal is formed for its lower two-thirds by the tendon of the external oblique alone, and for its upper third by the fleshy fibres of the internal oblique as well as the tendon of the external oblique; the pos- terior boundary is constituted for its upper two- thirds by the transversalis fascia only, but for the lower third by the conjoined tendons of the trans- Tersalis and internal oblique together with the transversalis fascia.] Mr. Guthrie also describes the internal ring, or superior opening of the inguinal canal, as mus- cular ; and he even supposed that " the opinion that this opening is in many instances a muscular one," was first advanced by himself in 1816. [Mr. Guthrie here means the upper part of the inguinal canal, not tiie opening in the transversalis fascia properly called the internal abdominal ring.] This claim cannot, however, be maintained against that of Sir Astley Cooper, who, in 1K04, made the fol- lowing observations with regard to the arrange- ment of the muscles at the internal ring :—"Hereby (says he) may be explained the opinion which some surgeons have entertained of the spasmndic nature of the stricture,—a state which it was diffi- cult to account for when the seat of strangulation was supposed to be confined to the external ring, as this tendinous aperture possesses no muscular action, and cannot assume the state of spasm " (p, 28, part i,) In another place, in noticing the means for reducing strangulated femoral hernia, Sir Astley Cooper remarks: "These means (to- bacco and opium, &c,) are less frequently elfectual here than in the inguinal hernia, which is pro- bably owing to two causes; namely, to the nature of the parts through which the hernia descends, and the smaUness of the aperture forming the mouth of the sac. In the inguinal hernia, the parts are so connected with muscles, that any re- laxation brought on in these aifects the aperture through which the hernia descends ; but, in crural hernia, the seat of the stricture is in parts less con- nected with the action of the muscles, and general relaxation has little effect on them." (Part ii, p. 9.) Mr. Swan, who attended Sir Astley Cooper's lec- tures in the winters of 1810-11 and 1812-13, heard him then explain that the lower part of the trans- versalis muscle was the cause of stricture in inguinal hernia. (See Mr. Aston Key's Remarks in Lond. Med. Gaz. 1833-34, p. 283.) As this gentleman observes, " if recent evidence be required, it may be found in Sir Astley Cooper's description of thecre- master in his work on the Testis. In plate 5, fig. 1, is a view of the muscular structure in the inguinal canal; and the explanation of the plate says, 'C. C. transversalis muscle, arising from Poupart's ligament, and passing around the spermatic cord at the internal ring, so that the fibres of this muscle appear behind as well as before the spermatic cord; and thus the inguinal canal is rendered a muscular canal.'" In explanation of plate 6, fig. I, there is also the following note :—" Muscular fibres are always found proceeding from the transversalis muscle upon that part of the fascia transversalis which forms the posterior surface of the inguinal canal." The love of truth, then, obliges me to assign to Sir Astley Cooper the merit of this, as well as of numerous other original observations on hernia. One question yet remains to be settled. Is the encircling of the spermatic cord by the fibres of the transversalis only an occasional variety, or is it the ordinary condition of it ? I know that several lecturers on anatomy take the former view. (See Lond. Med. Gaz. 1833-34, p. 399.) M, Cloquet had seen the lower margin of the transversalis at a very considerable distance above the ring. He liad also seen the spermatic cord enter the in- guinal canal, passing between the fibres of the same muscle, which were only separated, without accompanying the cord, as those from the in- ternal oblique do. These facts M. Cloquet mani- festly speaks of, as deviations from what is most usual. M. Cloquet likewise notices another variety in the anatomy of the parts. " In the majority of subjects (he observes) the spermatic cord passes underneath the lower border of the internal oblique, which it draws with it, to form the cremaster. In these cases, tlie anterior arches only exist, but in some individuals it evidently traverses the fibres of this muscle ; and these arches exist then not only in front, but also behind the testis and tunica vaginalis, which thus become everywhere sur- rounded by them." (See Jnlcs CloquefsDescription of ilia Parts concerned in Inguinal and Femoral f/ernicb, translated by A. M. M' H'hinnie, p. 13,) On the same subject, Scarpa says, The lower muscular fibres of the internal oblique separate from each other to allow the spermatic cord to pass between them." (On Jnguinal and Scrotal Hernia, p, 25, English ed,) The hernial sac descends through tlio external abdominal ring over the spermatic cord, and is covered by a fascia sent olF from the tendon of the external oblique muscle {inlcrcolumnar fascia). Beneath this fascia, the cremaster muscle is also situated over the sac, which, after it has descended