''^^ FRACTURE, and should be guarded against by moving the elbow gently and frequently when the consolidation is advanced to a certain point. Fractures of the forearm always require the part to be kept quietly in a sling. 2. [Fracture of the shaft of the radius may hap- pen at any puint from direct violence, or somewhere near the centre from a fall on the palm of the hand, though this latter cause most frequently produces a fracture near the lower extremity of the bone. Fractures of the shaft of the radius are pro- bably not more frequent, as M. Malgaigne observes, than those of the shaft of the ulna, the excess in the proportion of injuries to the former bone being caused by the frequency of fracture at its lower extremity.] When, after an accident of the kind above men- tioned, pain and difficulty of performing the mo- tions of pronation and supination supervene, the probability of a fracture of the radius is very strong. The truth is fully ascertained by pressing with the fingers along the external side of the forearm; also in endeavouring to perform supination or pro- nation of the hand, a crepitus and a motion of the broken portions will be perceived. When the fracture takes place in the upper third of the radius, the diagnosis is more difficult on account of the depth of soft parts over that part of the bone. In this case the thumb is to be placed under the external condyle of the os humeri, and on the superior extremity of the radius, and at the same time the hand is to be brought into the prone and supine positions. If in these trials, which are always painful, the head of the radius rests motion- less, there can be no doubt of the bone being frac- tured. The ulna serves as a splint in fractures of the radius, and the more effectually as the two bones are connected with one another throughout their whole length. [Shortening, therefore, is impossible, unless the ulna be at the same time dislocated, and if there is any displacement it must be in the direction either of the diameter or of the circumference of the bone. The pronator muscles will tend to draw the bone inwards towards the ulna, and so to diminish the interosseous space ; if the fracture be below the pronator teres, this muscle will influence the upper piece and the pro- nator quadratus the lower, but if the bone be broken above the point mentioned, both pronators will act on the lower piece, while the upper piece will be supinated by the supinator brevis and biceps, the latter muscle flexing or drawing it for- wards at the same time that it assists in the supina- tion. Such a displacement would implicate the bone both as regards its diameter and its circum- ference, and both these points should be well un- derstood, as they require to be carefully attended to in the treatment. In this, however, as in most other fractures, the original violence may modify or even supersede muscular action, and produce a dis- placement of one or both fragments either back- wards, forwards, or laterally.] Treatment.—In general, when the radius alone 13 fractured, no extension is requisite. Splints padded in the same way as for the fracture of both bones, should be applied on the anterior and pos- terior surfaces of the forearm, the same care being taken to press outwards the ends of the fracture and to preserve the interosseous space, the only aitference being that the hand should not bo kept in a Ime with the forearm, but sliould bo inclined towards the ulnar side, that it may act upon the lower portion of the fracture so as to draw it out- wards away from the ulna. During the treatment the elbow is to be bent, and the hand put in the mid-state between pronation and supination ; that is to say, the palm of the hand is to face the pa- tient's breast. [Mr. Lonsdale recommends the supine instead of thesemiprone positions in these fractures, for the same reasons as in the fractures of both bones, and which have been already stated. (Ante, p. 725.)] 3. Fracture of the inferior extremiti/ of the ?-arf««.—[This, although it is one of the most fre- quent of all fractures, was not well understood till within a comparatively recent period, but was very generally confounded with dislocation of the wrist. Mr. Colles of Dublin, in 1814, was the first to give an accurate description of the injury. (See Ed. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. x. p. 182.) Somewhat singularlj^, however, this memoir of Mr. Colles has not been much noticed by subsequent writers, and was not alluded to in former editions of this Dictionary, though the accident is often familarly spoken of as Colles' fracture of the radius. Dupuytren in 1820, and subsequeutlj-, paid great attention to the subject, and strongly insisted on the frequency of fracture, and the almost impossible occurrence of dislocation of the wrist. This ac- cident is almost constantly caused by a fall on the palm of the hand. The direction of the fracture, was stated by Dupuytren to be in general, oblique from above downwards, and from the dorsal to the palmar surface. (See Clin. Cldr. t. iv. p. 183.) Subsequent investigations have, however, shown that it is more commonly transverse, although the obliquity when present, most frequently takes the direction just mentioned. Its situation is from half an inch to an inch above the inferior extremity of the bone ; seldom so much as an inch and a half, as stated by Mr. Colles, who had not at that period had any opportunity of making post-mortem examinations of the injurj'. This is in reality the weakest part of the bone, notwithstanding its greater bulk, for it is com- posed entirely of light cancellated texture, only covered on the surface by an extremely thin layer of compact bone.] The consecutive displacement will have a greater resemblance to a dislocation, the nearer the frac- ture is to the wrist. Fractures of the lower end of the radius seem to occur at all ages ; for, in 11 e-xamples, alluded to by Dupuytren, the ages of the patients varied between 8 and 88 ; but, in young subjects, a separation of the epiphysis is more likely to occur than a fracture. Occasionally the lower fragment is split vertically in two or more pieces. In a few rare cases, besides a frac- ture of the radius, the ulna is dislocated, and pro- jects tlirough the skin. (Buput/fren, vol. cit. p. 190.) [Fracture of the styloid process of the ulna is a not unfrequent complication. The direction in which the force is applied, when a person falls on the palm of the hand, causes the upper portion of the radius to be displaced ■ forwards, and the lower fragment witli the carpus to project backwards, producing the appearances thus described by Mr. Colles :—" The posterior surface of the limb presents a considerable de- formity, for a depression is seen in the forearm, about "an inch and a half above the end of tho