3 s 4 wards its inner side. This species of hernia can only form an outward tumor, when very large. Garengeot, however, met with an instance, in which there was not only a swelling, but one at- tended with symptoms of strangulation: he reduced the hernia, which went up with a gurgling noise ; the symptoms were stopped, and stools soon folio wed. M. Jules Cloquet gives the particulars of a thj-roid hernia, met with in the dead body of a woman, aged about fifty. It formed a slight roundish tumor in the lower part of the left groin ; and the skin over it was of a purple colour. Ou opening the abdomen all the upper portion of the small intestines was inflamed, and enormously dis- tended with liquid fteces and gas. A noose of the bowel, which was strangulated in the thyroid fora- men, had given way at two points just above the stricture, and the intestinal matter had escaped freely into the cavity of the peritoneum. A piece of omentum also protruded at the upper part of the thyroid foramen, together with the intestine. On dissection, M. Cloquet found the hernia co- vered successively by the skin and superficial fascia, the fascia lata, and the middle adductor and pectineus muscles, which were raised up by the protrusion which had passed between the fibres of the adductor brevis. There were two saphenal veins, which, as well as the crural ves- sels, were somewhat displaced outwards by the tumor. The tumor was oblong, with an oblique direction, from above inwards, and it was divided by a constriction into two portion; the larger above, the smaller below. The upper portion ascended towards the spine of the pubes, m front of the obturator extemus, and behind some fibres of the adductor brevis. This part of the sac was higher up than the opening by which the hernia had escaped. The obturator vessels and nerve lay to the outer side and behind the neck of the sac, below which the artery di- vided into two branches. The lower of these passed behind the sac, to be distributed to the ob- turator extemus and adductor brevis ; while the other passed also behind the sac, and then turning round its inner side, on a level with the neck, pro- ceeded in front of it to the pectineus. The sac rested posteriorly on the obturator extemus muscle, which it had separated from the ligament. (See Jules Cloquet, Paihologie Cliir. p. 107.) [M. Vinson has collected fifteen cases of thyroid hernia, in which the position of the obturator vessels and nerve with regard to the neck of the sac had been determined. In six of these the vessels were situated on the inside of the neck of . the sac, and in six on the outside. In the remain- ing three the vessels were behind the sac. {Nelaion, Elemensdc Pailiolorjie Chirurgicale, t. iv. p. 403.)] Thyroid hernia, when reducible, must be replaced and kept up with a suitable truss; and if it were strangulated, and not capable of relief from the usual means, an operation would be requisite, though attended with difficulties. [In vol. xxxiv. of the Mcdico-Cliirwrgkal Transactions, p. 232, will bo found a case of obturator or thyroid liernia which had become strangulated, and was operated on by Mr. Obre. The patient, a female, was fifty-five years of age. She laboured under the ordinary symptoms of strangulated hernia, but no swelling could at first be discovered. On the third day, however, on comparing the two thighs, a greater fulness was -NIA. 999 noticed in Scarpa's triangle on the right side, and on using firm pressure with the fingers in this situation a distinct hardness could be felt. An incision was made so as to expose the saphenic open- ing of the fascia lata, and the finger then detected the hai-dened structure, which was exposed by dividing the fascia lata and some fibres of the pectineus muscle. The hernial sac now came dis- tinctly into view, an opening was made into it, and the stricture divided. The patient rapidly re- covered. Mr. Bransby Cooper also operated on a case of thyroid hernia, in Guy's Hospital, in 1853. The case in many respects resembled that of Mr. Obre. The pressure of the pectineua muscle on the hernia by displacing the sac ap- peared to cause the strangulation, for on dividing the fibres of this muscle transversely as they covered the sac, the hernia together with its sac slipped spontaneously into the abdominal cavity. The peritoneal sac therefore was not opened, nor was the strictui-e divided. The patient recovered completely from the operation, but died three weeks after in consequence of a severe attack of bron- chitis. (See Medkal Times, vol. i. 1853, p. 113, 142, 216.)] Cyslocele.—As Mr. Pott observes, "The uri- nary bladder is also liable to be thrust forth from its proper situation, either through the opening in the oblique muscle, like the inguinal hernia, or under Poupart's ligament, in the same manner as the femoral. " This is not a very frequent species of hernia, but does happen, and has as plain and determined a character as any other. " It has been mentioned by Bartholin, T. Dom. Sala, Platerus, Bonetus, Ruysch, Petit, Mery, Verdier, &c. In one of the histories given by the latter, the urachus, and impervious umbilical artery on the left side, were drawn through the tendon into the scrotum, with the bladder. In another he found four calculi. " Ruysch gives an account of one complicated with a mortified inguinal hernia. Petit says he felt several calculi in one, which were afterwards dis- charged through the urethra. (See also J. G. F. John de insoKta Calculi Ingentis per Scrotum ea- clusione. Wittenburg, 1750.) "Bartholin speaks of T. Dom. Sala as the first discoverer of the disease, and quotes a case from him, in which the patient had all the symp- toms of a stone in his bladder. The stone could never be felt by the sownrf, but was found in the bladder (which had passed into the groin) after death." (Pott.) According to Sir Astley Cooper, the increase or diminution of the size of the tumor is not much affected by the position of the patient's body, but depends more upon the accumulation or evjicua- tion of urine. " This variation of size, however, is not alwaj's observable, as the bladder does not always discharge the whole of its contents when the patient makes water; that part of the viscus within the pelvis completely emptying itself, while the portion within the scrotum remains distended, as before the attempt to void the urine. Persons, therefore, labouring under this complaint arc sometimes under the necessity of raising the scro- tum, and pressing upon it, in order to force its contents into the pelvic portion of the bladder, by which means the whole volume of water is discharged by the urethra." Another troublesome