AMAUROSIS in diseased iilteratioiis of the bones of the cranium, t!ic dura mater, and the brain. The morbid alterations of the bones of the skull mostly happen at its basis; and not only may caries take place, but still more frequently exostoses of various fonns, which are sometimes so small that they are first detected by the bone giving the feel of a rough grater. At the same time they are so sharp, that if the finger be passed rudely over them, it will be painfully hurt. In these cases, the bones of the cavity of the skull are always found extremely thin; the diploe is almost entirely wanting, and the parietes of the orbit are preter- iiaturally diaphanous, and, in some places, imper- fect. Beer speaks of a lady's skull, who had been completely blind, and, for some weeks previously to her death, insensible; in which instance scarcely any part of the cavity of the skull could be touched without risk of the fingers being hurt by spicula. Once, in an amaurotic boy, who, for a short time before his death, was so insane that he wssd to devour his own excrement, Beer found at the side of the sella turcica a long considerable spiculum, which passed directly through the optic nerves at the place of their decussation. A case of amau- rosis, produced by a spiculum of bone injuring the opposite side of the brain, is related by Anderson. (See Tra?is. o/lJie Society of Edinb. vol. ii.) Some- times the ethmoid bone has been found carious {Ballonius, ParmUffmata, No. 7); sometimes other parts of the cranium. {Mursinna, Beobaclit. b. i. No. 6; Schmiiclcer, Vermischte Schrift. b.ii. p. 12.) Fractures of the skull at the anterior part of its basis may cause pressure on one or both optic nerves, or on their union, or may otherwise injure them. (See Case in Sir B. Brodie's Paper on Inj. of the Brain, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiv.) These nerves may be variously affected by disease of the bone, or its membranous coverings, in the same situation ; or, in the orbit, such disease may have a venereal origin, and be indicated by the si- multaneous existence of other symptoms referrible to the same cause. (See Lawrence on Dis. of the Eye, ed. 3, p. 516; also Case hy Wilson, in Trans, of Soc.fur Improvement of Med. and Chir. Know- ledye, vol. iii.) Sometimes the medullary substance of the brain itself is quite soft, while the cortical substance is full of blood-vessels, and unusually firm, the convolutions being hardly distinguishable. Examples, in which the amaurotic blindness arose from abscesses in the brain, are reported by Ballonius {Paradiymata Hist. 7), by Pelargus {Med. Jahry. b. iii. p. 1.98), Peyronie [Mem. de I Acad. Royak de Chir. t. i. p. 212), Schaarachmid (ncrlin Nachrichle, 1740, No. 2f)), Langenbeck (IVeue Bibl. b. i. p. 01), and Mr. Travers {Synop- sis, p. 143.) The latter author has recorded an instance in which a firm lardaceous tumour, of the size of a garden bean, situated on the same side as the blindness, compressed the optic ganglion and nerve at its origin from it. (Synopsis, p. I,"-,!.) 1 have seen a case of amaurosis) in which a me- dullary tumor as large as a middling-sized apple was found in the anterior lobe of the brnin at- tended with protnisioh of the eye, and vast destruc- tion of the bones. I was consulted in 1('>35 for a case of amaurosis in a young lady, 14 years of age, the daughter of u surgeon. The pupils were remarkably large, and of a clear black colour. She died suddenly, and a tumor, formed in the ante- rior lobe of the brain, was found to have been the 37 cause of the blindness and of her death. Mr. Tra- vers has seen amaurosis produced by a medullary fungus of the brain. A c;ise, occasioned by disease of the thalamus, is related by Villeneuve (Journ. de Mid. continue, 181], Fe'vr. p. S8) ; another, of a tumor of the thalamus on the same side as the blindness, is recorded by Ford {Med. Covimun. vol. i. No. 4) ; and other swellings in various parts of the brain are described in Ephem. AkU. Cur. Dec. 3, Ann. 9, and 10, Obs. 253 ; De Haen's Ratio Medendi, P. 6, p. 271; Jotim. des Sava7is, 1697 ; Muzell's Wahrnehm. b. ii. No. 13 ; Plater, 04s. lib. i. p. 108 ; Thomann, Annalenfur 1800, p. 400, &c. ; Wardrop's Essays on the Mor- bid Anatomy of the Human Eye, vol. ii. p. 174, &c. Bonetus, in his Sepulchretmn Anatomictmi, lib. i. sect. 18, describes various cases which were quite incurable: after death the blindness in one instance was found to be occasioned by an encysted tumor, weighing fourteen drachms, situated in the substance of the cerebrum, and pressing on the optic nerves near their origin. In the second, the blindness was produced by a cyst, containing water, and lodged on the optic nerves, where they unite. In a third, it arose from a caries of the os frontis, and a consequent alteration in the figure of the optic foramina. In a fourth, the cause of the disease was a malformation of the optic nerves themselves. Mr. Lawrence refers to a specimen in Mr. Langstafl:"'s museum, exhibiting the eyes, optic nerves, and part of the basis, of the brain of a man, who had been amaurotic for twenty-eight years. The sclerotica, cornea, iris, pupil, choroid coat, and retina, are perfectly healthj-. The optic nerves in their whole extent, from the globes back- wards, are shrunk into white cords, not larger than a small crow-quill. At the point of union, they merely lie together without being joined, and each proceeds to its own side of the l)rain. Where they sweep round the crura cerebri, they are gra- dually confused and lost. (See Luwrenca on Dis. of the Eye, ed. 3, p. 518.) In some of the instances, in which no apparent alteration can be discovered in the optic nerve, the late Mr. Ware conjectured that a dilatation of the anterior portion of the circulus arteriosus of Willis may be the cause of the affection. The anterior part of the circulus arteriosus lies directly over, crosses, and is in contact with, the optic nerves • and just in the same way as the anterior part lies over the optic nerves, the posterior part lies over the nervi motores oculoruni. Hence Mr. Ware attempted to refer the amaurosis itself, and' the paralytic affection of the eyelids, and muscles of the eyes, sometimes attendant on the complaint to a dilatation of the anterior and posterior branches of the circulus arteriosus. The frequently diseased slate of the trunk, or small branches of the carotid arteries at the side of the sella turcica, is noticed by Ur Bailhe m liis useful work on xMorbid Anatomy, and he says the same sort of diseased structure is also found in the basilar artery and its branches, (bee Wares Chir. Obs. on the Eye.) On the authority of Ecker, one case is upon record, where the cause of amaurosis depended npon an aneurism of the central artery of the retina. {I'lncl, Nnsof/raphie Philos. t. ii. \). 122.) Many of the causes of amaurosis are of such a nature as to render the disease totally incurable. Of this description is fungus hiomatodes, in which the structuro of the retina and optic nerve is D 3