I I 3 CONTUSION. upon the whole, the most efficient p.illlative means n e possess, but in some cases it altogether fails, and « e may then try the effect of an extremely con- cave glass. In an ingenious monograph upon this subject, by Dr. Pickford, of Brighton, the writer stated, that he had foimd considerable advantage from the constant and prolonged use of emetics. Staplti/loma Gornece. — Mr. Bowman [Lectures on the Parts, &c. 1849, p. 40.) observes: I shall conclude the present lecture with a short de- scription of the structure, which replaces the cornea when wholl}'- or partially destroyed, and which is liable to become bulged, so as to constitute the state known as staphyloma cornece. Tlie whole thickness of the cornea, in a larger or smallei' ex- tent, having perished ii'om any cause, the iris is exposed, and occupies the breach, becoming ad- herent to the border of the gap formed by the removal of the lost part. If the contents of the globe do not further escape, and the eyeball conse- quently collapse, time is afforded for the reparative process to take place, by which the opening is filled with new material by granulation. At first this new material is soft, vascular, and nearly on a level with the surrounding parts; and, if nature is al- lowed to proceed with her operations undisturbed, it gradually acquires firmness, toughness, and con- siderable density, so as to appear not unlike the natural cornea, except that it is opaque. It becomes covered with an epithelium continuous with the conjunctival, just as an ulcer of the skin acquires an investment of cuticle as it heals. This process was first explained by Mr. Wharton Jones, in an able paper, published in the Medical Gazette, vol. xxi. p. 847. Now in some cases, from causes which it is unnecessary for me at present to spe- cify, this cicatrix contracts more or less, and con- tinues to retain the contents of the globe within their proper bounds, the'patient experiencing little inconvenience beyond the loss of vision ; but in other instances the new material begins after a time to evince its want of coherence and strength, by bulging slightly under the pressure occasioned by the accumulation of fluid behind it—that is of course behind the iris, in the posterior chamber of the eye. Should the projection increase beyond a certain size, it assumes an unsightly appearance, interferes with the movements of the lids, so as at last even to prevent their closure, and, in a word, grows into such a source of annoyance and irrita- tion, that it requires to be got rid of. This is usually done by the knife, and the lens being al- lowed to escape, the eyeball permanently shrinks to a small size. The whole substance of the cicatrix being shaved off from the front of the globe,^ailords us now and then the opportunity of examining its structure in the perfectly recent state, which we can seldom do with any other of the morbid tissues of which this organ is the seat. I had such an opportunity last summer in the case of a little girl; the following in few words is a dcscri|)tion of the structure of the tough opaque membrane, which occupied the place of the lost cornea. Its thickness was very un- equal; its posterior surface, to which portions of the iris adhered, being irregularly pitted, or as it were worm eaten ; its anterior surface was formed hy a thickish coating of epithelium, somewhat re- sembling cuticle, being composed of eight or ten layers of cells, the deep ones globular, the euper- 4!!S' ficial ones scaly, and more like epidermic cells than those of the healthy cornea. There was no anterior elastic lamina and no posterior elastic lamina. Tlie entire remaining portion of the thickness of the staphyloma consisted of a dense and most irregular interweaving of white and j'ellow fibrous tissue, with imperfectly developed nuclei intermingled, and the meshes of the tissues large, unequal, and open on all sides. In this condition we have an eminent example of those results of the reparative action, after loss of substance of the cornea, which we have already had occasion to notice as the con- sequence of ulcers or small sloughs, the chief dif- ference being that here the new material is derived, in a great measure or wholl}', from tlie vascular iris rather than from the cornea itself. "We see how far the reparative powers fall short of restoring the complex and elaborate structure of the cornea as it is originally laid down in the development of the ho&y. The thickness of the new cuticle is attribu- table in part to the constant friction of the lids. For injuries of the cornea see article " Eve, In- juries OF THE." Most of the above remarks on corneitis, and its consequences, &c., have been taken from Mr. Critchett's practical Lectures, which are published in the Lancet, 1854. For further information on this subject, and for numerous re- ferences, consult Bowman, Lectures on tlie Parts concerned in the Operations on the Eye, &c. 1849 ; Dixon, A Guide to the Prctciical Study of Diseases of the Eye, 1855 ; AfacJcenzie, On the Diseases of the Eye, ] 854, 4th edition ; Dr. Carl Stelbcag von Carion, Die Ophthalmoloffie, ^c. cj-c. Bd. i. 1853; Desmarres, Traite Theoriqius et Pratique des Mala- dies des Yeui; tome ii. edit. 2, 1855, pp. -226— 386; and Graefc, Archiv. fur Ophthalmologie, Bd. i. AbtheiL i. 1854, S. 297; Abtheil. ii. S. 306; Bd. ii. Abtheil. i. 1855, S. 206, Abtheil. ii. 1856, S. 151—157; Bd. iii. Abtheil. ii. S. 387.] a Bader. CONTUSED WOUNDS. (See Wounds.) CONTUSION (from contundo, to bruise). A bruise. Bruises, when slight, seldom meet with much attention ; but when they are severe, very bad con- sequences may ensue, and these are the more likely to occur when the accidents are not taken proper care of. In all severe bruises, besides the inflammation which the violence necessarily occasions, there is an instantaneous extravasation of blood into the cellular tissue, in consequence of the rupture of many of the small vessels of the part. In no other way can we account for those very consider- able tumours, which often arise immediately after injuries of this nature. The black and blue ap- pearance, instantly followiiig many bruises, can only be explained by tliere being an actual ef- fusion of blood from the small arteries and veins which have been ruptured. Even largish vessels are frequently burst in this manner, and consider, able collections of blood are the consoquonco. Blows on the head often cause a large clfusion of blood under the scalp, and sometimes a smaller extravasation under the aponeurosis of the occipito- frontalis n\uscle. I have attended cases in which more than a pint of blood was cll'used in the formr of these places. The most copious extravasations on the head, indeed, are generally directly under tlie scalp, where the larger branches of the tem- poral, occipital, and frontal lu'tcrics arc situated