108 AMPUTATION. incision in a line witli the loiver edge of tlie pa- tella, and had the integuments retracted before cutting into the joint above tliis bone." " The pos- terior flap must be made very long, indeed to the full extent of the gastrocnemius muscles; care being taken, however, to avoid preserving more than a moderate portion in regard to thickness." (See Ed. M. Journ. of Med. Science, May, 184.5, p. 537.) In the following year, however, Mr. Syme says: " As the soft parts required to form the stump in this situation are apt to be so deranged in their texture as to delay, though not prevent recovery, and thus in some measure counterbalance the ad- vantage of exposing cancellated instead of dense bone, together with the contents of its medullary cavitj'', I do not persist in advocating amputation at the knee now, when satisfied that the operation by circular incision, if performed with due care and on proper principles, may be employed in the lower third of the thigh safely and advantageously. (See JEd. M. Journ. Nov. 1846, p. 225.) In the same year, Mr. Fergusson performed a similar operation successfully in a case of diseased knee-joint. His mode of proceeding was, like Mr. Syme's, with a posterior flap; both are, in fact, equivalent to the original operation of Hoin, ex- cepting as regards the removal of the patella and of part of the femoral condyles. Mr. Fergusson has seen this patient repeatedly since. He has frequently ■walked forty miles in a day with a very indifferently- made artificial leg; and once accomplished 120 miles in three days without the slightest damage to the tissues! {Op. Surg. ed. 3, p. 603.) Mr. Fergusson says he has since frequently performed this opera- tion; but does not state how often. {Med. Times and Gaz. July 8, 1854, p. 26.) Mr. Jones, of Jersey, operated in 1853 in the same manner, and the result to the patient was a " most ser- viceable stump, upon which he could bear the weight of his trunk in progression." {Med. Times and Gaz. June, 1854, p. 570.) This was a se- condary amputation after compound fracture of the leg. A similar practice has been followed suc- cessfully by Mr. Potter, of Newcastle. (See Lancet, May 27, 1 854.) And also by Dr. Markoe. (See N. Y. Journ. of Med. Nov. 1856, p. 823.) This operation may be substituted with ad- vantage for amputation in the lower third of the thigh in some cases of diseased knee-joint, and also of compound fracture into the joint, from gunshot wounds, for example, when the condyles of the femur are only to a slight extent implicated. In either of these cases the removal of the lower end of the bone of course becomes a matter not of choice but of necessity. This kind of operation, however, is not likely to be very frequently re- quired; diseased knee-joints, which are not eligible for excision of the ends of the bones, will most probably be in a condition to compel the amputa- tion to be performed higher up; and the same may be said, as a general rule, of compound fractures in which the lower end of the femur is involved. When the end of the femur is sawn through, the operation with the posterior flap, as recommended by Hoin, may perhaps be found the best; the thick muscular cushion thus obtained will be less likely to suffer injury from the sharp edges of the sawn bone than an anterior flap, which must necessarily be composed of integument only. The large size of the flap, however, and, in diseased joints, its altered and deranged condition will probably, as Mr. Syme found, cause delay in the healing pro- cess; but when this disadvantage has been sur- mounted, tlie condition of the stump, in the cases recorded, appears to have been in every respect highly satisfactory.] Amputation of the Thigh, [Here, as in the arm, there is but one bone, and here, in like manner, the deep muscles are adherent to the bone, while the superficial ones pass from the pelvis to the leg without taking any attachment to this segment of the limb. There is no "/)/ac3 of eleclion " for the performance of amputation of the thigh; but the rule of operating as far as pos- sible from the trunk of the body should be invari- ably followed. By so doing, not only will the danger from the immediate shock of the operation be diminished, and the recovery be more rapid on account of the smaller extent of the wounded sur- face ; but the subsequent utility of the stump, from the power which the greater leverage thus obtained will enable it to exercise over the movements of the artificial limb, will be greatly increased. The pro- priety of this rule is now universally admitted, both by the surgeon, whose more immediate con- cern is in the recovery of the patient from the operation, and also by the mechanician, who is engaged afterwards in the adaptation of the arti- ficial limb.] Many writers, however, have disapproved of amputating too close to the knee {Graefe, op. cit. p. CO); Mr. Listen recommended that the bone should not be sawn very much lower than its middle, his opinion being that " a long stump here is equally inconvenient to a person in any walk of life" {Pract. Surg. p. 382, ed. 4); and Langenbeck urged one objection to it, not specified by any other author, viz. that if the operation be done lower down than two hands' breadths above the knee, the femoral artery shrinks into the apo- neurotic sheath which it here receives from the vastus internus and triceps, and cannot be drawn out with the forceps, so as to be separately tied, without first slitting up that sheath. Hence he recommended cutting through the muscles at the distance above the knee already mentioned. {Bihl. fur die Cidr. b. i. p. 571, 12mo. Gott. 1806.) But when I come to look at the breadth of two adult hands, and see how much of the limb would be sa- crificed, at all events only to save a little trouble, I cannot bring my mind to concur with Langen- beck — the remedy being worse than the alleged evil. In general, the disease obliges the surgeon to begin the incisions two or three inches above the patella, and, as Velpeau remarjcs, Langenbeck's direction is superfluous. {Nouv. Mem. de MCd. Oper. t. i. 504.) The patient is to be placed on a finn table, with his pelvis resting on its edge, and the limb project- ing beyond it. His back should be properly sup- ported by pillows and assistants, who are also to hold his hands, and keep him from moving too much during the operation. The ankle of the sound limb may be fastened, by means of a strong band or garter, to the nearest leg of the table. The next thing is the application of the tourni- quet. (See Tourniquet.) The pad should be placed exactly over the femoral artery, in as high a situation as can be conveniently done. ^V hen the thigh is to be amputated high up, it is better to let an assistjsnt compress the femoral artery in