by it (septum crurale). When this cellular tissue ia removed, the white glistening fascice are plainly seen passing through the same opening, and coming nearer together in a funnel-like man- ner. (See also Sir A. Cooper, On Hernia, p. 10, part, i.) Where the fascia of the transverse muscle forms the outer falciform edge of this aperture, and is passing over the arteria circum- Hexa. ilii to the psoas and iliac muscles, it sends oiF through the opening, a process which becomes connected with the outer side of the crural canal, or ring; while from the internal inguinal ligament which lies above this opening, and constitutes the upper edge of the inner aperture of the crural canal, a production is sent, which is connected with the anterior side of this canal. As for pos- terior and inner sides, they have a connection with the fascia covering the psoas muscle. When the groin is externally dissected, in order to have a view of the crural ring or canal, on the outside of the pelvis, the following appearances present themselves :—after the removal of the common integuments, one finds below Poupart's ligament, a quantity of fat, glands, lymphatics, veins, and arteries, which vessels come out through small openings in the fascia lata. As soon as the outer surface of the external oblique muscle is cleared, its aponeurosis is found to become stronger at the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and its fibres to collect together, and assume the form of a band, which is Poupart's ligament, called by Hesselbach the external inguinal liga- ment, and by Gimbernat, Cloquet, and others, the crural arch. This ligament, as is well known, passes obliquely, inwards and downwards, towards the OS pubis, and after forming the external pillar of the abdominal ring, is first closely inserted into the tuberosity of the os pubis, and then being continued inwards, or backwards, in the form of a firm fascia, is attached to the pectineal line on the horizontal ramus of that bone, making the anterior or outer face of GimljernaVs ligament, which is conse- quently produced by the junction of Poupart's with Hesselbach's internal inguinal ligament along the pecten of the os pubis. Thus, just as tlie internal inguinal ligament is a strengthened part of the fascia of the transverse muscle, the outer in guinal ligament (or, as it is here commonly called, Poupart's ligament) is produced by the strength- ened fibres of the lower portion of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, the fibres of it making the external pillar of the ring, being con- tinued towards the pecten of the pubes, in the form of the outer surface of Gimbcrnat's liga- ment. {Langenlieck, Neiie Bihl. b. ii. p. 120, 121.) Some Rnglisli surgeons mako the formation of Gimbernat's ligament moro simple ; thus Mr, Lawrence states, that when Poupart's ligament approaches the pubes, " it becomes suddenly broader; that it is fixed by this broad portion along the whole length of the angle and crista ' {tuberosity and pecten) " of the pubes ; that i has a rounded and strong anterior edge, a thin and sharp posterior margin ; and that the former of these is nearer to the surface, while tho hitto is comparatively deeply seated. The breadth of this part varips, in different subjects ; it generally from three quarters of an incli to an inch. Sometimes, as Oimbernat has stated, measures more than an inch. Dr. Monro has observed, that it is broader in the male than in HERNIA, 983 the female subject ; find, from this structure, he explains in part the more rare occurrence of this rupture in the male" (p. 368, ed. 3). The fascia lata, which is spread over the muscles of the thigh, proceeds downwards from Poupart's ligament, and is very closely attached to the muscles of the thigh, all the way from the anterior superior spinous process of the ium to the femoral artery, drawing, as it were, Poupart's ligament downwards and inwards, or backwards, towards the cavity of the pelvis, so as to give to its external edge a convex appear- ance, and shut up the outside of the pelvis, from the anterior superior spine of the ilium as far as the crural nerve and artery, so firmly, that the forma- tion of a femoral hernia at this part is all but impos- sible. And, if small apertures, filled with fat, be discernible in this portion of the fascia lata, still no hernia can here take place, because, as Langen- beck has already explained, here the interior of the pelvis is again shut up by fascite already de- scribed. Under the fascia lata are situated the anterior crural nerve, the vein, and artery. The vena sa- phena magna lies superficial to it, and passes through an opening in it into the femoral vein. This aperture in the fascia lata is at the inner side of the groin, opposite the internal opening of the crural canal. It is named by Hesselbach the ex- ternal aperture for tlie femoral vessels, and de- scribed by him as an oblique fissure about fifteen lines in length. He takes notice of its external semilunar edge, and two horns which are directed inwards; the parts first particularly described by Mr. -A. Bums, of Glasgow, under the name of the semilunar or falciform process of the fascia lata. The lower horn bends rather inwards and upwards, and terminates in the production of the fascia lata spread over the pectineus muscle. The upper horn, which is less curved, buries it- self under the external pillar of the abdominal ring. Over the lower horn of the opening, just now described, the vena saphena magna ascends into the femoral vein. Through the same aperture also pass nearly all the superficial lymphatics of the lower extremity. According to Cloquet, the fascia lata consists of two layers, of which the anterior superficial one is closely attached to the crural arch, extends over the ixjmoral vessels, and forms the anterior side of the crural canal. The other layer near the pubes, quits tho former, and, covering the pectineus muscle, constitutes the hinder side of that canal. Tho anterior layer of the fascia then forms an oval aperture, through which tho vena saphena passes, and which is considered by Cloquet as the luiocr opening of the crural canal. This opening called by Hesselbach the external foramen for the femoral vessels, is well delineated both in his excellent work, and in the twentj'-thircl plate of Langenbeck's book. {Da Structura Pe- ritoncvi, Tesiiculorum Tiiniois, ^-c, 8vo. GUtt 1017.) According to Mr. Lawrence, "at the upper and anterior part of the limb, the fascia lata con- sists of two portions, an external and an internal, with distinct insertions. The former, which is the thickest and strongest, covers tlie sartorius and rectus femoris, and is inserted into Poupart's liga- ment, from tlie anterior superior spine of tho iliiim to the inner edge of tho femoral vein. The latter thinner and weaker, covers the pectineus and nd- 3r 4