969 HERNIA. truded parts adhering to each other, or to the hernial sac. The intestines are not often very firmly adherent together. The omentum and inside of the sac are the parts which are most subject to become intimately connected by adhesions. The fingers will, commonly, serve for breaking any recent slight adhesions which may have taken place between the intestines and inside of the hernial sac. When those adhesions are firm, and of long standing thej' must be cautiously divided with the knife; an object which can be most easily and safely accomplished, in case they are long enough to permit the intestine to be elevated a little way from the surface of the sac. But, provided their firmness and shortness keep the external coat of the bowel and inner surface of the sac in close contact, the greatest care is requisite in separating the parts with a knife, so as to avoid wounding the intestine. In doing this, the most prudent and safe method, is not to cut too near the bowel, but rather to remove the adherent parts of the sac, and return them with the intestine into the abdo- men. Every preternatural connection should always be separated before the viscera are reduced. Sir A. Cooper mentions, that a fatal obstruction to the passage of the intestinal matter has arisen from the mere adhesion of the two sides of a fold of intestine together (p. 31). When the ad- hesions which prevent reduction are situated about the neck of the sac, and out of the operator's view, it is best to make the wound through the skin and abdominal ring somewhat larger, so as to be able to separate the adhesions with more safety. Having reduced the parts, the operator should introduce his finger for the purpose of being sure that they are fairly and freely returned into the abdomen, and no longer suffer constriction, either from the inner opening, from the external ring, or the parts just within the cavity of the peri- toneum. In strangulated enteroceles the peritoneal coat of the bowel is capable of bearing the pressure, longer than the mucous, which is soon cirtulaily divided by it. But, if the strangulation has lasted two or three days, the cellular tissue is cut through; and, in some instances, even the perito- neal coat itself. In operating upon such cases, the bowel should not be drawn out at all, before a free division of the stricture has been made, because it would occasion a risk of tearing one portion of the intestine from the other, and producing an extra- vasation in the abdomen. (See Dupuylren, Clin. C/tii: t. i. p. .569.) Sometimes a strangulated hernia is complicated with a hydrocele ; a circumstance which may render it necessary either to cut thro\igh the latter swelling, or to limit the incision into the hernial sac, according as the hydrocele happens to cover the whole of the front of the sac, as seen by M. Cloquet and by Mr. Stanley, or merely to advance in front of the lower pnrt of the rup- ture. (Lawrence, On Ruplures, p. 276, ed, 4.) See HvnnocEr.E. Treatment op the Omentum. In !m ontero-epiplocele, this part, if healthy and free from gangrene, is to bo reduced after the in- testine. When, however, it is much diseased, thickened, and indurated, as it, frequently is found to be, after remaining any considerable time in a hernial sac, the morbid part should be cut off. Its reduction in this circumstance would be highly improper, both because an immoderate enlargement of the wound would be necessar)', in order to be able to put the diseased mass back into the abdo- men, and because, when reduced, it would, in all probability, excite inflammation of the surrounding parts, and bring on dangerous symptoms. (See Hey, p. 17-2.) The diseased omentum should always be cut off with a knife; and if any of its arteries should bleed, they ought to be taken up with a tenaculum, and tied separately with a small ligature. An unreasonable apprehension of hiemorrhage from the cut end of the omentum has led many operators to put a ligature all round this part, just above the diseased portion which they were about to remove. This practice, cannot be reprobated in terms too severe; for a frequent effect of it is to bring on a fatal inflammation, and even mortification of the omentum, extending within the abdomen, as high as the stomach and transverse arch of the colon. Sir Astley Cooper has remarked with great truth, that it is surprising this custom should ever have prevailed. The very object of the operation is to extricate the omentum from its strangulated state, arising from the pressure of the surrounding tendon; and no sooner has this been done than the surgeon includes it in a ligature, which pro- duces a more perfect constriction than that which existed before the operation was undertaken. " When the omentum has suffered strangulation for a few days," says Mr. Lawrence, " it ofte/i be- comes of a dark red or livid colour; and there is an appearance, on cutting it, as if some blood were extravasated in its substance. This, I believe, is the state which surgeons have generally described under the term of gangrene " (p. 262). When cut in this state, it does not bleed. I need hardly observe that the dead part must be removed, and never reduced. Some have advised leaving the omentum in the wound, especially in cases of old hernite, in which it has been a long while protruded. Hey mentions cases, showing that granulations form very well, and that the wound becomes firmly healed when this plan is followed (p. 180, &c.) Every one, however, will acknowledge the truth of what Mr. Lawrence says on tliis sul)ject. The method " is attended with no particular advantage, but certainly exposes the patient to tho possibility of ill consequences. The omentum, left in the woinid, must be liable to injury, inflammation, or disease. Unnatural adhesions, formed by this part, have greatly im- paired the functions of the stomach. Some cases are recorded, whore the unfortunate patient has never been able to take more than a certain quan- tity of food without bringing on instant vomiting; and others where it has been necessary for all tho meals to be taken in the recumbent position, with the trunk curved and the thighs bent. (Giinz.) To avoid the possibility of such afflicting conse- quences, we should, after removing any diseased portion carefully replace the sound part of the omentum in the abdominal cavity." (On Ruplures p. 291,ed. 4.) ' Diipuytren objected to the plan of cutting away the omentum, on account of tho tediousness of the process of taking up the arteries, some of which may not after all be tied, and then hemor- rhage will take place. He also bears testimony to