^'^'^ GUNSHOT mation spreads witli rapidity, and attacks all the viscera, producing vast distension of the abdomen, fever, coma, and other bad symptoms, soon termi- nating in gangrene and deatli. {TMrrcij, Man. clc Chir. Mil. t. iv. p. 292, 293.) During the first four-and-twenty hours, very little urine escapes from gunshot wounds of the bladder, in consequence of the swelling which almost instantly affects the lips of the wound. When the bladder is full, this fluid is discharged only at the moment of the accident, and mostly only from the wound by which the ball has made its exit. An extravasation is prevented by the thick slough which fills all the track of the injury, and it is not till the deadened parts become loose that any effusion can happen. Hence it is of the highest importance to introduce an elastic gum cathi'ter into the bladder, where it should be kept, and the instrument should be large enough to fill exactly the urethra; for, according to Baron Lar- rey's observations, if, at the period when the sloughs are detached, the urine has not a ready passage outward, it passes through the wound, and is extravasated the more readil}', inasmuch as the separation of the sloughs has occasioned many openings, by which the fluid may insinuate itseif into the cellular membrane. Hence gangrenous mischief and death. On two points my own experience would not lead me to join in the sentiments of Larrey : first, in opposition to his statement, I am sure that there is risk of extravasation of urine earlier than the period which he specifies, having known this accident commence within a few hours after the receipt of the Avound ; and therefore I should not depend upon the sloughs being always at first a complete barrier to extravasation of urine (indeed, their formation throughout the whole track of a gunshot wound is by no means a regular occurrence), but invariably pass a catheter as soon as possible, for the more certain prevention of this dangerous consequence. Secondly, the period of the separation of sloughs may indeed often be contemporary with the first appearance of s,ym- ptoms of extravasation, particularly in cases where the employment of the catheter is for some time deferred, as in Baron Larrey's practice, because then a partial extravasation of the urine, soon after the injury, and previous to the introduction of the catheter, will cause rapid sloughing, and actually prevent the adhesive inflammation from closing up the cavities of the cellular membrane in time to prevent a fatal extension of that irritating fluid amongst the surrounding parts. Were it not for the partial early effusion of urine, no doubt, the adhesive inflammation would, in these cases, soon have the same effect, in obviating the danger of urinary extravasation, which it has after lithotomy, or paracentesis of the bladder. (See Bladder.) It is the practice of Baron Larrey to dilate the wounds, in order to facilitate the escape of the urine, which might otherwise lodge in the track of the ball ; and perhaps, here the method may fre- quently be right, though I should conceive its propriety must usually depend upon whether the "I'nie lias a tendency to continue to ilow out through the wounds or not, and upon the presence 01 obstruction or not. And, in confirmation of this pPinion, I may cite Dr. Ifennon's declaration, that, in these cases, he has very rarely found it neces- sary to enlarge the wound, when the catheter and WOUNDS. proper dressings have been employed. {On Mili tary Suroer;/, p. 421, ed. 3.) As soon as pos- sible, a large elastic gum catheter should be in- troduced, and left in the urethra, taking care to withdraw It, and pass in a clean one every two or three days, so that no incrustations may occur boraetmies, however, the passage of a catheter is veiy difficult, as is the case when there are splinters of bono in the urethra, or the parts about Uie neck of the bladder are inflamed. (Mem. de Uur. Mihlaire, t. iv. p. 294.) Emollient clysters, and acidulated demulcent drinks, are to be pre- scribed, and the patient is to be kept upon a /ery low regimen, and in the most quiet state. The dressings are to be light and simple, and cleanli- ness observed. (Op. cit. t. ii. p. 1 65—170.) In- stead ot camphorated embrocations to the abdomen, another means commended by Larrey, it appears to me that this author's directions would have been more complete and judicious had he advised in these cases bleeding, both topical and general. From the injury of arterial ramifications or varicose vessels, blood is sometimes extravasated within the wounded bladder, and causes deep- seated irritation. According to Baron Larrej-, the case is indicated by the symptoms of retention of urine, and those of inflammation, with a small pulse, pallor of the countenance, and drvness of the wounds. (T. iv. p. 295.) A more'decided criterion, I should think, would be the partial escape of urine mixed with blood, a symptom which could deceive only where the urethra itself had been injured. Larrey states, that blood, e.x- travasated in the bladder, rarelv coagulates, because blended with urine, and hence he advises its dis- charge to be facilitated by means of a catheter, and tepid, emollient, anodyne injections. (T iv p. 295.) [In reference to this point, Mr. Guthrie states that the blood coagulates with equal proportions of urine, and recommends the introduction of a silver catheter, to break up the clots, and this to be fol- lowed by the injection of warm water, to assist in its solution. {Commentai-ies, edit. (?. f. 604-5.)] Sometimes, balls carry before them into the bladdir, fragments of bone, portions of clothing, small coins, pieces of buttons, &c.; or bits ofbtdiets break off, and lodge in that viscus. When these extraneous bodies are not above a certain size, they are frequently voided through the urethra (see cases in Hennen's work, p. 419, 422, 424, &c. ed. 3.), and their evacuation may be materially facili- tated by the introduction of an elastic gum catheter, the size of which is to be increased gradually, until the largest can be passed, wlien the foreign substances will readily enter the tube, or pass out through the dilated urethra. In th is wav. Baron Larrey has saved patients from a vast" deal of sufllning. {Man de Chir. Mil. t. iv. p. 302.) In such cases, the urethral forceps, made by Mr. Weiss, might often be used with advantage. (See LiTHOTOAiv.) When the ball is too large to bo taken out in this mnnilor, the lateral opcntion is to be performed, and it ought to be done before the bladder falls into an ulcerated or gangrenous state, from the pressure and irritation of the foreign bod}'. However, as wounds of this organ fre- quently give rise to dangerous iufl.iiiiniation, Larrey recommends this operation to be done either before its attack, or after its subsidence. (Vol. cit. p. 309.) In fact, almost all the opera-