1 , HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. On referring to these for fui'ther evidence on this nteresting subject, I find that the cases in which siippmation takes place when the scalp is entire, have been comparatively rare, bearing a very small proportion indeed to those cases in which suppura- tion has followed a fracture complicated with wound. Such is the result of my own experience during a considerable period of time, and which I am enabled to give, not merely from a general re- collection of what I have seen, but on the authority of written notes, made at the bed-side of the pa- tients, and for the most part before the question they illustrate had ever presented itself to my mind. " Taking all these facts into consideration, and endeavouring to give its proper value to what may be urged on either side of the question, I cannot but acknowledge, whatever may have been my first impression on the subject, that it appears to me at this moment that Sir Astley Cooper's views are well founded ; and that in those cases in which a depression of bone exists without any symptoms, or with only trifling symptoms arising from it, the surgeon can follow no better general rule tlian this: if the depression be exposed in consequence of a wound of the scalp, let him apply the trephine and elevate the depressed bone; but if there is a de- pression, without a wound of the scalp, in conse- quence of the accident, let him not make such a wound by an operation." Drs. Lawrie and King, surgeons of the Glasgow Infirmary (London and Edinburgh Journal, 1844), on the subject of trephining in compound depressed' fracture, accompanied by comminution, with cerebral symptoms as nearly as possible absent, say:—"A reference to these cases will show that this descrip- tion of injury is exceedingly dangerous, that of the cases recorded not a single case recovered without operative interference, and that of the eleven operated on, three recovered and eight died. These facts, whilst they are not much in favour of operation, are still less in favour of non-interfer- ence. At the same time it must be granted that, as the majority of those admitted with extensively depressed and comminuted bone were operated on and died, non-interference cannot be fairly judged of, because the operation may have had an injurious effect in some instances, and if all had been left without operation, the result might have been more favourable. On this account we by no means aiErm that these cases decide the question, but so lar as they go are in favour of interference in cases of comminution and depression, irrespective of ce- rebral symptoms. We wish to be clearly under- stood, as recommending the operation in this class of cases only where the bone is comminuted or deeply depressed. In addition to the reason for this advice, based on the above statistics, it must be borne in mind that the portions of the bone driven down and shattered can rarely be expected to live, and they are exceedingly apt to cause suppuration, and after the formation of pus, their removal as a general rule (to which we are aware there are ex- ceptions) does no good." Out of seventy-seven cases of compound fracture, tvventy-nine recovered and forty-eight proved latal : twenty-six were not interfered with surgi- caUy, of these eighteen recovered and eight died; nity-one were operated on, and of these eleven re- covered and forty died. T)ofr?t""/^^f excellent translation of Hip- Pocrates (p. 432, &c. Sydent^am Society's edition), says: This practice (of non-interference) was sanc- tioned by a 1 the best army and navy surgeons, from about the beginning of the present century down to a very recent period. What then, it will be asked, have been the results? Has experience confirmed the safety of this rule of practice, or has it not ^ To enable us to solve these queries, we and trustworthy statistics, pub ished by Dr. Lawrie. It deserves to be re- marked that Dr. Lavvrie's ample experience has . i^r'^l f J";' decidedly the rule of practice, established by Mr. Abernethy, namely, that in cases of depression, the symptoms of compression should be our guide to the employment of the tre- phine. He adds, 'However well this rule may sound when delivered ex catliedra, it will be found of very little practical utility, for this reason, that if we limit interference to cases exhibiting urgent .symptoms of compression, we had much better not interfere at all, inasmuch as such cases prove almost invariably fatal. Such at least has been the ex- perience of the Glasgow Hospital; for out of fifty- six cases operated on, including, in point of time, a period little short of fifty years, there does not ap- pear in our records a simple unequivocal instance of profound insensibilitjr, in which the mere opera- tion of trepanning removed the coma and paralysis, or m any way conduced to the recovery of the patient. We wish to be clearly understood as speaking of the trephine used in reference to the state of the bone in cases of profound insensibility, not employed to remove extravasated blood; nor does the cause of our want of success appear at all obscure. We believe that in practice cases of ur- gent compression dependent on depressed bone alone are very few indeed. From what we have said, it will appear that we coincide with those who, in using the trephine in cases of compound fracture of the skull, look more to the state of the bone than to the general symptoms, and who em- ploy it more as a preventive of inflammation and its consequences than as a cure for urgent symp- toms, the immediate result of the accident. The details are by no means favourable to the trephine. Of fifty-six cases operated on, eleven recovered and forty-five died.'" From the experience the writer has had in a lar^e metropolitan hospital, the conclusion he has come 1o is, that as a rule it is far better to leave the bone alone altogether in compound depressed fracture xuiihout symptoms, than to attempt to raise it by the elevator or the trephine. He would say that th is is the general rule, and that cases which re- quire an opposite mode of treatment are exceptions to this rule, and the exceptions are e.xceedin!;ly numerous. This question should be regarded^s one of vital importance; indeed, there is none re- lating to injuries of the head of such serious mo- ment. It can only be decided by experience, ami that of a most extensive character. The danger of suppuration in compound fractures is probably not in the least degree enhanced where the bone is allowed to. remain depressed beneath its natural level; and there is great increase in tlie risk of producing inflammation by attempting a for- cible elevation of the bone. Dr. J. C. Hall {Med. Gazette, Nov. 27, 1840) published a num- ber of very interesting cases which bear very strongly on this point: they present every phase of compound depressed fracture. In no single in- stance was any attempt made to elevate the bone,