200 ANEURISM, p. 350.) With reference to this operation, Ro- seniiuiller's Chir. Aiiat. PLates, part ii. tab. 11.; Scarpa's plates; Tieilmann's beautiful engravings of the arteries; Manec, De la Ligature des A rteres, pi. vi.; and Camparis Demonsli: Anut. Pathol. lib. i. are worth consulting. From observations made by Mr. Harrison, a doubt may be entertained, whether, even in tliese circumstances, the adoption of the foregoing plan is always necessary. Indeed, he distinctly de- clares, that" in no case of diffused or circumscribed aneurism at the bend of the elbow have I seen it necessary to open the sac, or the artery below the tumor." " Brachial aneurism," says he, " which commences at the bend of the elbow, in conse- quence of a wound, is not always circumscribed. Sometimes the tumor extends up the arm between the biceps and triceps muscles, the fascia of the arm preventing its increase in a lateral dn-ection. In one instance I saw the disease extend from the elbow nearly to the axilla. In this diffused aneu- rism, the surgeon must tie the brachial artery m the upper part of its course, and apply moderate compression along the aneurismal sac. This plan succeeded in the case to which I have alluded, and in which the operation was performed by Mr. Wilmot, in Jervis Street Infirmary; and a per- severance in moderate compression for some weeks, caused the total disappearance of the disease.' (See Harrisons Stcrgical Anat. of the Arteries, vol. i. p. 169, ed. 2.) Still, exceptions to the pre- ceding advice may present themselves. Thus the brachial artery has been wounded in venesection precisely at its bifurcation into the radial and ulnar branches. The brachial artery was tied close to the wounded part; but as the bleeding returned, it was secured a little higher up. Amputation was performed, and the patient lost his life. Here it was ascertained that a ligature could scarcely have been applied below the opening in the vessel, so near was this to the bifurcation; and perhaps the radial and ulnar arteries should have been secured (See Guthrie, On Dis. of Arteries, vol. i. p. 332.) While Baron Dupuytren expresses himself in favour of the preference which should generally be given to a single ligature above the tumor in aneurism at the bend of the arm, he admits the possibility of this method failing, the pulsations being only temporarily suspended by it. In simple aneurism it will answer; in what he terms the arterioso-venous aneurism, or varicous aneurism, it will not stop the throbbings. (See Clinique Chir t. i. p. 274.) , . „ A high division of the brachial artery is well known to be a frequent occurrence. If, m con- sequence of this, two arteries should be exposed in the operation (see J. G. Crosse in Prov. Med. and Surg. Trans, vol. v.), the surgeon should en- deavour to ascertain by pressure, which vessel com- municates with the wound, or sac, and apply the ligature accordingly ; but, if the pulsation, or bleed- ing, cease only when both vessels are compressed, he will be justified in tying both. (See Harrison's Surijieal Anat. of the Arteries, \o]. i. p. 166, ed. 2.) [^Spontafieous aneurisms of the arteries of the fore- arm are of extremely rare occurrence. When met with they require to be diagnosed from pulsating encephaloid tumors, which are not very unfrc (luently met with in this situation. Tlieir treat ment consists in the application of a ligature to the brachial.] AxiLLAiiY Aneurisms. I Aneurisms occasionally take place in the axillaj and make it necessary to tie the subclavian artery. A question, here naturally presenting itself, is, whether the surgeon should attempt the operation in the early period of the disease, or wait till cir- cumstances are urgent—the aneurism large and far advanced ; the arm osdematous and insupportably painful, from the stretching of the axillary plexus of vessels ; the patient worn out by suffering and loss of rest; and the tumor in danger of bursting ? In all cases of aneurism, unquestionably, there is a certain chance of the disease getting well spon- taneously ; and one axillary aneurism, in a man in St. Bartholomew's Hospital a few years ago, had certainly disappeared of itself, as was proved by the account which the patient while living gave of his case, and by the obliteration of the artery, found on inspection after death. We may also find a few instances of subclavian aneurism being cured by Valsalva's treatment. (See PelUtan, Clin. Cliir. t. i. p. 77 ; Cloquet in Archives, 1834, t. vi. p. 511.) I believe, however, we ought not to suffer our conduct to be too much influenced by the hope of events which are so unfrequent; and, from the observations which I have made on this subject, it is my decided opinion that the operation should never be delayed so as to allow the tumor to acquire an immoderate size. The operation is always difficult; but the difficulty is seriously in- creased when the swelling has extended far towards the breast, and has become so large as to push the clavicle considerably upwards. The several examples in which the subclavian artery has now been successfully tied furnish abundant proof that the anastomoses are fully competent to the supply of the limb with blood. The plan, therefore, of delaying the operation long, with the view of al- lowing the inosculating arteries to enlarge, must be as questionable here as in some other cases of aneurism, and at all events the maxim may be safely advanced, that, previously to the operation, the tumor should never be suffered to acquire an enormous size. , That the limb would receive an adequate supply of blood was well proved, even without the per- formance of the operation, by cases in which the axillary and subclavian arteries had been rendered impervious by disease; as, for instance, by the pressure of an aneurism of the aorta, (tor an account of such facts, the reader is particularly referred to Hodgson's treatise on the Diseases of Arteries, p. Ill ; JoM-n. de Medceine, by Corvisart, Lerouiv, and Boyer, t. ii. p. 29 ; Conisart, Essat sur les Maladies du Cmur, p. 215.) " In these cases," savs Mr. Hodgson, the only unusual circumstance which was observed during the life of the patients, was the deficiency of the pulse at the wrist. Tlie limbs were well nou- rished, although a considerable extent of the mam artery (the subclavian) was obliterated even before it had given off any branches." (P. 47.) _ This vessel was tied by Mr. Hall, ,n Cheshire, when it had been wounded witli a scythe, and its ends exposed; the arm was preserved, tho.igh it remained somewhat weakened, which "I'ghtJ^e owing to the division of some lai|e ^'^^^- J^f^^ J Bell, On Wounds, p. CO, ed. 3 ; and Scaipa, p 37-3 ) m. A^'hite, of Manchester, relates an-