'254 ANUS, " Sometimes, instead of either of the preceding appearances, a gangrenous suppuration takes place, and the cellular tissue is affected in the same man- ner as it is in a carbuncle." "In this case, the skin is of a dusky red or pur- ple colour; and, although harder than in a natu- ral state, it has by no means that degree of ten- sion or resistance which it has either in phlegmon or in erysipelas. The patient has generally at first, a hard, full, jarring pulse, with great thirst and restlessness. If the progress of the disease be not stopped, or the patient relieved by medicine, the pulse soon changes into an unequal, low, faltering one ; and the strength and the spirits sink in such a manner as to imply great and imme- diately impending mischief. The matter formed under the skin, so altered, is small in quantity and bad in quality, and the adipose membrane is gangrenous and sloughy throughout the extent of the discoloration." Sometimes the disease makes its first appear- ance in the induration of the skin, near to the verge of the anus, but without paiu or alteration of colour ; which hardness gradually softens and suppurates. The matter, when let out in this case, is small in quantity, good in quality; and the sore is superficial, clean, and well-conditioned. On the contrary, it now and then happens, that although the pain is but little, and the inflammation appa- rently slight, yet the matter is large in quantity bad in quality, extremely offensive, and proceeds from a deep crude hollow."— [Pott, On Fistula in Alio, Lond. 1765, p. 7—10.) Abscesses near the rectum happen with par- ticular frequency in persons who are habitually costive, and, according to Sir Benjamin Brodie, in those also who have been troubled with piles. His observations confirm the truth of some cases on record, where abscesses of the rectum are stated to have been produced by foreign bodies penetrating through the raucous membrane of the bowel and sphincter muscle, into the cellular tissue. " I was sent for (he informs us) to a gentleman, who had a very uneasy feeling in the rectum. I thought he laboured under internal piles, and prescribed for him something, which, however, did not relieve him. The next day, as he was no better, I ex- amined the rectum, and found a hard substance sticking in the mucous membrane : with some difficulty I extracted it, and found it to be part of the core of an apple, which the patient had eaten." If this had not been extracted, no doubt an abscess might have been produced by the side of the gut. Sir Benjamin Brodie was sent for to another patient, who had an abscess near the rectum; and, after he had opened it, he detected a long fish-bone sticking across it, which was extracted. The bone had evidently penetrated the mucous membrane of the bowel ; and, in all probability, some feeculent matter had passed by the side of it, so as to ac- count for the remarkable putridity of the matter. (See Lond. Med. Gas. for 1835, 183G, p, 27.) The experience of Sir Benjamin Brodie likewise agrees with the remark made by the greater num- ber of writers on this subject, respecting the occa- sional formation of abscesses near the rectum in persons otherwise healthy, though tliey take place far more commonly in unliealihy individuiila. "The place where the abscess points," observed Mr. Pott, " and where the matter, if let alone, would burst its way out, is various and uncertain. Sometimes it is in the buttock, at a distance from the anus ; at other times near its verge, or in the perineum ; and this discharge is made sometimes from one orifice only, sometimes from several. In some cases tliere is not only an opening through the skin, externally, but another through the in- testine into its cavity; in others, there is only one orifice, and that eitlier external or internal. " Sometimes the matter is formed at a consider- able distance from the rectum, which is not even l;;id bare by it ; at others, it is laid bare also, and not perforated : it is also sometimes not only denuded, but pierced; and that in more places than one." " All consideration of preventing suppuration is generally out of the question : and our business, if called at the beghming, must he to moderate the symptoms ; to forward the suppuration ; when the matter is formed, to let it out; and to treat the sore in such a manner as shall be most likely to produce a speedy and lasting cure." " When no symptoms require particular atten- tion, and all that we have to do is to assist the maturation of the tumor, a soft poultice is the best application." When the disease was of the phlegmonous kind, Mr. Pott preferred letting the skin become very thin before an opening was made in it; but, at the present day, abscesses near the anus and rectum are commonly opened directly the matter has formed. " This kind of tumor is ge- nerally found in people of full sanguine habits : and who, therefore, if the pain be great, and the fever high, will bear evacuation, both by phlebotomy and gentle cathartics." " When the inflammation is erysipelatous, the quantity of matter formed is small, compared with the size and extent of the tumor ; the disease is rather a slougliy, putrid state of the cellular mem- brane, than a single abscess, and therefore the sooner it is opened the better ; if we wait for the matter to point, we shall wait for what will not happen; at least not till after a considerable length of time, during which the disease will extend itself." " When, instead of either of the preceding ap- pearances, the skin wears a dusky purplish-red colour; has a doughy, unresisting fee), and very little sensibility: when these circumstances aie joined with an unequal faltering kind of pulse, irregular' shiverings, a great failure of strength and spirits, and inclination to doze, the case is formid- able, and the event generally fatal," " The habit, in these circumstances, is always bad ; sometimes from nature, but mtich more fre- quently from gluttony and intemperance. What assistance art can lend must be administered spee- dily ; for if the disease be not stopped, the patient will sink. Here is no need for evacuation of any kind; recourse must be immediately had to medi- cal assistance ; the part afiected should be fre- (Lucntly fomented ; a large and deep incision should be made into the diseased part, and the applica- tions made to it should be of the warmest, most antiseptic kind." . " Strangury, dysurj', and even total retention of urine, arc no very uncommon attendants upon ab- scesses in the neighbourhood of the rectum ami bladder ; more especially if the seat of them 1 near the neck of the latter organ. They sonir times continue from the first attack of the inliaiii- mation until the matter is formed, and has made its way outward, and sometimes last a few liours only." {Pott, op. cit. p. 11—22.)