HEAD, INJURIES OF THE, interference may be delayed for a time, as it is for probable that these symptoms may altogether di„ appear. We allude to such signs as stupor, somno- lencj', slowness of pulse, and general insensibility, as they probably depend more on the concussion the brain has sustained than on pressure from de- pressed bone, and under suitable treatment will altogether disappear. On this point, however, it is impossible to lay down any rule as to the period to which delay niaj' be fairly advocated; experience leads us to regard the absence of dilated pupil and hemiplegia a most important element in forming our opinion. If, therefore, it is resolved to wait and see what nature will effect towards the resto- ration of the cerebral faculties, the state of the pulse, the respiratory system, and the condition "of the pupils, must be most carefully watched, and a due attention must be paid to the state of the in- tellect; and if any amendment occurs, as evinced by a return of the general sensibility, delay is fully justified, as a further gradual improvement may be expected imder such simple and appropriate treat- ment as has been recommended in cases of fracture without depression. What are the exceptions to the rule here re commended ? They are very few : the extent of the depressed bone will not afford an infallible cvi terion, for the greater the superficial extent of tlie depression, the less Avill be the risk of ulterior mis chief to the brain. This remark applies especially to young subjects; but in cases where the bone is forcibly driven down on to the dura mater to such a depth and in such a manner as to justify a well grounded suspicion that ulceration of this mem brane will probably result, it is better to cut down and raise the bone by the elevator or the tre phine, than leave the patient to the imminent risk of destructive inflammation of the brain and its membranes. In a person of advanced age, if one piece of bone is thrust completely under the edge of another, threatening mischief to the dura mater, it should be elevated; such a condition, however, could scarcely be recognised without a wound of the scalp, when the case, becoming compound, should be subjected to the treatment advised for compound fractures. In young subjects, the de- pressed bone should be left to nature, and all sur- gical interference by operation should be avoided in the absence of symptoms of pressure, If, in a case of depressed fracture, s)'raptoms of pressure are fully developed, the trephine should be applied at once, especially where hemiplegia on the side opposite the seat of injury is present; and even if there has been any delay in the use of the instrument, it may still be employed with suc- cess after an almost indefinite period, and after all inflammatory symptoms have been subdued by bleeding, &c. No prudent surgeon would counsel delay under such circumstances; but there are cases nevertheless where some doubt may be reasonably entertained as to the true interpretation of the ex- isting signs; and it is satisfactory to .know that, after all other means have failed to relieve the brain from pressure, the trephine can be used with a fair prospect of success. It is important to re- member that a piece of bone may be depressed and exert no deleterious influence upon the cerebral sys- tem for a considerable period, and that symptoms ot cerebral irritation may manifest themselves, long atter,and lead to the necessity of trephining; and in otaer cases, symptoms of pressure may continue even for many months, and may eventually be effectually relieved by the operation. A well-known case of the latter description, presenting circumstances of great mterest, is given by Sir Astley Cooper as havnig occurred in the practice of the late iilr Chne. « A man was pressed on board one of His Majesty's ships, early in the late revolutionary war. Whilst on board this vessel in the Medi- terranean, he received a fall from the yard-arm, and when ho was picked up he was found to be insen- sible. The vessel soon after making Gibraltar he was deposited in an hospital in that place, where he remained for some months, still insensible; and some time after he was brought from Gibraltar, on board the Dolphin frigate, to a depot for sailors at Deptford. While he was there he was visited by Mr. Davy, who found him insensible, lying on his back, with very few signs of life, and apparently deprived of all powers of mind, volition, and sen- sation. Mr. Davy examined the case, and foimd that there was a slight depression on one side of the head. Being informed of the accident which occasioned the depression, he recommended the man to be sent to St. Thomas's Hospital. He was placed under the care of Mr. Cline; and, when he was first admitted into this hospital, I saw him ^Miig on his back, breathing without any great difficulty, his pulse regular, his arms extended, and his fingers moving to and fro to the motion of his eart, so that you could count his pulse by this motion of his fingers. If he wanted food, he had the power of moving his lips and tongue; and this action of his mouth was the signal to his at- tendants for supplying this want. "_Mr. Cline, on examining his head, foiuid an obvious depression; and thirteen months and a few days after the accident, he was carried into the operating theatre, and there trephined. The de- pressed bone was elevated from the skull. While he was lying on the table, the motion of his fingers went on during the operation; but no sooner was the portion of bone raised than it ceased. The operation was performed at one o'clock in the after- noon, and at four o'clock, as I was walking through the wards, I went up to the man's bedside, and was surprised to see him sitting up in his bed. He had raised himself on his pillow. I asked him if he felt any pain, and he iininediatelj' put his hand to his head. This showed that volition and sensation were i-eturning. In four days from that time the man was able to get out of bed, and be- gcin to converse; and in a few days more he w;is able to tell us where he came from. He recollected the cireuinstance of his having been pressed, a-.:d carried down to Plymouth or Falmouth; but from that moment up to the time when the operation was performed, his mind remained in a state of perfect oblivion. He had drunk, as it were, the cup of Letlie; he had suffered a complete death, as far as regarded his mental, and almost his bodily powers; but by removing a small portion of bone with the saw, he was at once restored to all the functions of his mind, and almost all the powers of his bodj'." (Sir A. Cooper s Lectures.) The same surgeon has mentioned a case where, in a fracture attended with depression, a small spiculum of bone projected into the brain, so as to produce and support epileptic symptoms. A negro had a fracture from a blow on the head, and a portion of bone was depressed. Shortly after, he was seized witli epilepsj', which continued for