BLOOD, COAGULATION OF, DURING LIFE. 326 ing life, and of the deposit of fibrin, nrc in some instances sufficiently manifest, and in others in- volved in considerable obscurity. Retardation or stagnation of the current will operate as a cause, independent of any morbid quality, and in any condition of the system or of the vessels, pro- vided the blood has not lost its coagulating power. Thus, in divided vessels, stagnation leads to obli- teration by the combined effect of the coagulation of tlie blood, and tlie contraction of their parietes. In sacculated aneurisms retardation or stagnation results in the deposit of fibrin in layers, the quantity being greatest, in aneurismal pouches generally, at the point where the current is most feeble. Protracted syncope may lay the foundation for cardiac concretions and clots in the vessels, even in persons previously quite healthy. In suspended animation and in various exhausting diseases, and at the close of many fatal diseases, where the blood has not lost its fibrin, and the patient is a long time sinking," the languor of the circulation promotes coagulation in the heart and large vessels. A clearly ascertained cause of a deposit of fibrin, acting me- chanically, is the presence of foreign substances, whether dead or living, as the spicula of bone- earth, or the development of some product, acci- dentally, in the heart or vessels ; as a deposit of lymph, forming a projection from an inflamed lining membrane, or an organised substance. Such substances become nuclei for the formation of clots as the " living and actively moving " blood passes over them ; and it very often happens that vessels containing clots exhibit signs of inflammation of the parietes. Inflammation of the blood-vessels promotes the coagulation of the blood they contain. Pus, and tuberculous and cancerous deposits, have also been detected in the vessels in connection with clots, under circumstances which leave no doubt that they have been the causes of coagulation. Impressions conveyed to the blood through the nervous system appear also, under circumstances, to have a direct efl^ect in producing coagulation. Schroeder Van der Kolk found, on breaking down the substance of the brain and spinal marrow, while the blood was still moving in the vessels, that clots were present a few minutes after the experiment'; thus, whether the result of retardation of the blood's current, or of an electrical, or a direct nervous influence, exhibiting to the sui-geon one of the effects of shock on the system. Morbid conditions of the blood itself also lead to the same result in many surgical diseases. Of these a state of intense molecular activity, to which some writers have applied the term "inflamma- tion," where there is a great excess of fibrin, is one of the most frequent, particularly if the rapidity of the current should not be maintained, in which case the process is identical with coagulation and the formation of a buft'y coat out of the body. In conditions of tlie blood where the fibrin is rela- tively increased, owing to a diminution of the watery element, coagulation is very liable to occur, as in the profuse perspirations of phthisis, or after colliquative diarrhoaa, or in cholera where the blood is inspissated. In the latter disease clots occur ill tho heart, pulmonary arteiy, aorta, iliac, tibial, axillary, and gastric veins of the same sub- ject, and the writer lias drawn a clot from tho brachial vein before deatii. To these causes may be added the development of acid and otlior animal products, or the retention of effete materials, or the introduction of various foreign substances and poisons into the blood, cither acting, as before described, mechanically, so as to excite fibrillation, or producing diseases, the results of poisoning of the blood. All the circumstances of disease by which the circulation is materially retarded, promote these effects and the morbid states of-the blood pro- duced by poison. Fatal coagulation may occur during protractedfsyncope !md in debilitated states of the constitution, even when the proportion of fibrin is reduced, or its contractile power dimi- nished, and this would probably happen more con- stantly in diseases of extreme debility if it were not that the blood is itself more essentially dis- eased, and loses the whole or nearly the whole of its coagulating power before death. (See Blood, Pathology of. Spanjsmia. ToxicoHiEJiiA.) Clots and concretions may occur in any part of the vascular system. From physical causes the heart is the most frequent site. One cavity, as the right auricle, may be completely filled with a con- cretion, and contain very little trace of fluid blood, or a clot may extend from the auricle to the cor- responding ventricle, preventing the action of the tricuspid valve, or into the pulmonary artery forming a plug ; or it may form in the ventricle or the pulmonary artery alone. Sometimes the smaller pulmonary vessels contain long filaments. The deposition of fibrin may commence in the extreme capillaries, just as in the case of an artery tied by a ligatiu'e, and it may be limited to these vessels without any clot being formed in the larger vessels or in the ventricle. Concretions occur iu the same manner on the left side of the heart attached to the walls or valves, but not quite so frequently in the left auricle. In the arch of the aorta they are almost always hollow cylinders, sometimes extend- ing from the ventricle a considerable way down the aorta, and into the vessels .arising from its arch ; or they may commence above the aortic valves, and may fill up nearly the whole of the thoracic and abdominal aorta. Concretions thus situated, if formed during life, are often the imme- diate cause of death, but they occur also in the more distant parts of the vascular system, as the basilar, brachial or femoral arteries, plugging up the main trunks, or closing up vessels at their origin. The whole of the arteries in the inferior half of the body have been found choked with fibrinous masses. {Fuller, Lond. Med. Gax. \8-l7.) They occur also in the vena cava, iliac veins, cmul- gent veins, and tho venous system generally, .and of late pathologists have recognised similar con- cretions in the vessels of the vital organs. Masses of yellow fibrinous substiinco often obstruct those of tho kidneys, spleen, and brain : they are re- garded- by many as deposits of fibrin from the blood, giving rise to tho pathological condition known as " capillary phlebitis." Even petecliise and ecchymosed nnd congested spots of small size occurring in various jwrts of the body, wliicii, on minute inspection, arc found to have a yellowish central point, are regarded in tho same point of view. It will thus be apparent that coagulation during life, does not, in a large proportion of cases, dojiend upon any structural lesion of the heart or blood- vessels, and there are many cases on record in which it lias occurred, both in children and .ndults, as a primary disease of the blood without any complication. (Mcd.-C/iinufl. lievtew, vol.