681 FRACTURE. The displacement is principally owing to such muscles as arc affixed to the lowet fragment, or part with which this fragment is articulated. Suppose the humerus to be broken between its upper end aud the insertion of the great pectoral. This muscle, aided by the latissimus dorsi and teres major, will draw the lower fragment inward, and displace it by drawing it to the inner side of the upper fragment, which remains motionless. In fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, the npper fragment, included within the capsular liga- ment, affords attachment to no muscle ; but all those which are affixed to the lower fragment tend to draw it upward and backward. In all cases, the lower fragment follows every movement made by the part of the limb with which it is articulated, and, consequently, the muscles attached to the bones of this last part of the limb become a powerful cause of displacement. Thus, in a frac- ture of the thigh-bone, the biceps, semi-tendinosus, and aemi-membranosus, draw the leg, and with it the lower fragment, upward, inward, and back- ward, so as to make the lower end of the fracture ascend at the inside of, and rather behind, the upper one, the extremity of which then projects forward and outward. In a fracture of the leg, the gastrocnemius, soleus, and peronei muscles, acting upon the foot, draw the lower fragments of the tibia and fibula to the outer and posterior side of the upper fragments. For here, as well as everywhere else, the strongest muscles, in pro- ducing the displacement, draw towards their own side the end of the fracture on which they operate. And as the posterior muscles of the leg are far more numerous and powerful than the anterior, while those on its outside are not antagonised by any others, the displacement must liappen in the direction backward and outward. Whenever, therefore, a bone is fractured at a given point, the knowledge of the muscles will enable a surgeon to determine a priori in what direction the displace- ment is disposed to happen. Lastly, the muscles attached only to the upper fragment may contribute to the displacement. In a fracture of the thigh, situated immediately below the lesser trochanter, the psoas and iliacus muscles carry forward the extremity of the upper fragment, which elevates the integuments, and forms a more or less considerable projection near the fold of the groin. But the displacement of the upper frag- ment is generally less considerable and important than that of the lower. The manner in which the displacement of fractures is effected by the action of muscles ex- plains one circumstance which frequently attends these cases, especially fractures of the thigh, cla- vicle, and leg. This is a rising, a projection, of the upper fragment, or that which is nearest the trunk. One might believe, at first sight, that such projection is formed hy the upper fragment quitting its natural situation, and rising over the lower one. But, on the least reflection, it becomes manifest that the upper end of the fracture projects only because the lower one is displaced, and drawn towards that side on which the strongest muscles are situated. Thug, in practice, in order to make the risimj end of the hone (as it was termed) dis- appear, it is only necessary to reduce the lower fragment. If, instead of doing this, pressure be made on the projecting part, the design fails; and if the plan bo still more forcibly pursued and con- tinued, inflammation, ulceration, and sloughing, and ■the conversion of the case into a compound fracture, are likely to be the consequences. 5. In respect to circunisiances with tvhich frac- turcs are accompanied. The most important divi- sion of fractures is into simple and compound. By simple fracture, surgeons mean a suddenly formed breach in the continuity of one, or more bones, without any external wound, communicating in- ternally with the fracture. By a compouiid frac- ture they signify the same sort of injury of a bone, or bones, attended by a wound of the soft parts leading down to the fracture, which wound may be produced by the protrusion of one or both ends of the fracture through the skin, or b}' a ball, or other bod}^, which enters, or otherwise wounds, the soft parts, at the same moment that it breaks the bone. Fractures are said to be complicated when at- tended with diseases, or accidents, which render the indications in the treatment more numerous, and require the emplo3'ment of different remedies, or the practice of sundry operations, for the accom- plishment of the cure. Thus, fractures may be complicated with severe degrees of contusion, wounds of the soft parts, in- jury of blood-vessels, a dislocation, or diseases and particular states of the constitution, as the scurvy, rickets, syphilis, cancer, pregnancy, &c. The complication of fracture with dislocation is frequent in the ancle and vertebral column. In the first case, the dislocation usually precedes the fracture; but, in the second, the fracture of the body or bodies of the vertebrte, precedes the dis- location, which otherwise is exceedingly rare. Under the head of differences in fractures may be fitly introduced that injury to the bones of children, which is denominated a handing of them from fiills, blows, and external violence, since this injury requires the same treatment as fractures, although crepitus and separation of the fragments do not attend it. In 1821, Dr. J. R. Barton, of Philadelphia, published a valuable paper on the subject, including also remarks on another injury to the bones of children, which he calls a partial or incomplete fracture of a single bone, or both bones. These cases had been previously noticed by Un- derwood and Boyer, and perhaps by them alone. Dr. Barton has illustrated his paper by very ac- curate drawings of the deformity resulting from both of tliese accidents, {^ea Amer. Med. Recorder for 1821 and Reese's Anier. ed. of this Dictionari/.) In the course of three years, Mr. Hart, of Dublin met with five cases of partial fracture of long bones: one of the humerus; two of the radius- and two of the femur. " The diagnostic symptoms of this affection (he observes) are pain and a bent state of the bone injured, without absolute shorten- ing of the limb. On the contrary, it is lennthoned ou tlie side to which the ends of the fractured bone project." ( See Duhlin Journ. of Med. Science vol, i. art. i. 8vo. DJ3-2.) ' [A l)onding or partial fracture of the bones of children is now well known to be of not uncom- mon occurrence. It happens more frequently in the forearm than in any other part of the body but it has l)oen also observed in the humerus' fonnir, tibia, fib\tla, aud clavicle. The fracture, of course, occupies tlio side of the bone whicli cor- responds to the convexity of the bend, and extends to a variable distance through its substance. In