^08 FRACTURE, fl?rh.lt"'-T"T'' ''^'"^ ^ considemble lon ei part of the ueck, or in the neighbouring part 01 the back, of such a nature as to paralyse all the imiscies of respiration excepting the diaphragm, the patient rarely lives to the end of the fourth or ntth day, and mostly dies still earlier. (See Med Clur. Tmns. vol. xx. p. 156.) Fractures of the cervical vertebra below the origin of the phrenic nerve occasion paralysis of the arms, though it is seldom complete. Sometimes, when the fracture IS oblique, one arm is more affected than the other As the intercostal muscles are paralytic, great diffi- culty of i-espiration prevails. The abdomen is also considerably inflated. Death generally follows in from three to seven days. Sir Benjamin Brodie has never known priapism occur from injury of the spinal cord, except in combination with paralysis. It " may take place (he observes) whether the patient suffers from the ettects of simple concussion of the spinal cord, or Horn those of pressure. It seems to be connected with injuries of the upper, rather than with those of the lower portion of the cord, at least I am Eot aware that I have met with it where the seat ot injury has been below the sixth dorsal vertebra. It IS for the most part an early symptom, showing Itself m the course of the second or third day, and it seldom continues after the first fortnight. It occurs even where the sensibility of the parts is totally destroyed, and may be induced by the me- chanical irritation caused by the introduction of the catheter, where the patient is entirely uncon- scious of the operation. This circumstance was pointed out to me, many years ago, by Professor Macartney, of Trinity College, Dublin, and I Jiave had many opportunities of verifying the cor- rectriess of the observation." {Sir B. Brodie, in Med. Chir Trans, vol. xx. p. 140.) In University College Hospital, one case occurred under Mr. Listen, in which priapism accompanied a fracture ot tlie lumbar vertebra, and Sir Benjamin Brodie informs me that he has lately heard of another similar case. _ We had also in University College Hospital an instance where priapism was one of the symptoms following a violent blow on the occiput. Sir Astley Cooper notices the following as the appearances found in post-mortem examinations. The spinous process of the displaced vertebra is depressed ; the articular processes are fractured ; the body of the vertebra is broken through, the' separarion rarely liappening in tJie intervertebral substance. The body of the vertebra usually pro- jects forward half an inch, or an inch. Between the vertebra and the sheath of the spinal marrow, blood is extravasated, and frequently on the spinal cord itself. Wlicn the displacement is slight, the spinal marrow is compressed and bruised. When greater, it is torn through by the bony arch of the spinous process, and a bulb is formed at each end, but tlie dura mater continues whole. (See •iH-^. C'oopec, On DishccUiojis, ^-c. p. 554, &c.) Fractures of the spinous processes, witiiout other serious mischief, tue not dan..erou3. It has usually tJeen thought that, even when a fittcti.re of the lo Zn' '>''«Pl=>'^e'«'-'"t, any attempt Z I twgments into a better position would have w"^''"''' S"'"" P-'actitioners "'vve however ventured upon it. Mr. Dariow. ofWrittle, did so, and though no harm resulted from the experiment, it cannot be said that anv permanent good was derived from it, for, wh4 the patient died some months afterwards, the fectu e had united s 111 m a displaced condition. It was performed by persons pulling at the superior and inferior extremities, which had the desired effect • tor the angular projection was greatly lessened and the patient did not seem to experience any pain during the extension." The following par- ticulars show, however, that the displacement was far from being obviated. The case was a trans- verse fracture of the first lumbar vertebra, extend- ing obliquely downwards and forwards, through the upper portion of its body. " The upper part of the vertebral column, together with the upper fragment of the fractured vertebra, had been thrown torwards, the superior fragment resting on the fore and upper part of the inferior fragment, to which It was connected by callus. The corresponding articular process of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra had been dislocated ; those of the former having been thrown upwards and forwards. On the right side the inferior articular processes of the last dorsal vertebra was separated from the cor- responding process of the first lumbar to the extent of a third of an inch, while their surfaces were rounded and neariy obliterated. On the left side the processes were about the same distance from each other, but connected by an intermediate por- tion of new bone. The foramen between the roots of the spinous processes was more than twice Its natural dimensions. The ligamenta subflava must have been ruptured. The vertebral canal, immediately behind the line of fracture, was dimi- T. 'f''^?"'' calibre." (W. R. Barloiv, in Med. Clur. Trans, vol. xvii. p. 115.) The following is the view adopted by one hi<th authority : " Dislocations and fractures, with dTs- placement of the cervical vertebra;, are not always immediately fatal ; and I cannot say that no cir- cumstances can exist wliich would justify the attempt to effect reduction in such cases; but it ■ is evident that if the attempt be made at all, it must be with the greatest caution, and Boyer describes a case in which a child died under it. There can be no doubt, however, that when the injury is in the lower part of the spine, the attempt to effect reduction may be not only made with ini- punitj', but that it may be successful. In proof of this assertion, I may refer to a case wliich occurred in the practice of Mr. Hardwicke, of Epsom ; the patient being afterwards admitted into St. Geace's Hospital, labouring under paralysis of the lower limbs." Sir Benjamin Brodie likewise refers to another case under his care in the same hospital; a fracture, with great displacement of the third and fourth lumbar vertebra;. By fixing the thorax, and cautiously extending the pelvis, he endea- voured to restore the vertebra; to their proper place. " The attempt was in some degree success- ful, no ill effects of any kind resulted from it.'' (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol xx. p. 158.) In the Instances seen by Mr. Crosse, in which a fracture of the sjiiiial coliinni was attended with displacement, producing pressure on tiie medulla and panipligin, the compressing portion of tlio bono was tiiinost universally the body of a verte- bra, so generally broken, and not the arch. (See Trans, of I'rov. Me.d. Assoc. vol. v.) I.M. Malgnignc incnticns n case of fracture in the