'^'^^ FRACTURE portant circumstance in wliich a fracture on the outside of the capsule differe from one within it, is in Its readily admitting of bony union, which it is much more difficult to accomplish in the latter case. (See Str A. Cooper, On Dislocations, <5-c. p. ] 85, &c.) ' Many years ago it was supposed that fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone could not be cured without some shortening of the limb, and lameness. Ludwig, Sabatier, and Louis, broached this doc- trine, and imputed tlie circumstance to the de- struction of the neck of the bone. That this com- monly happens, has been well ascertained. In several specimens which Mr. Crosse examined in different museums at Paris, whether imperfect u .ion, or no union at all, had followed the frac- ture, this absorption of the neck of the bone had taken place to a great extent, and in some to so great an extent, that the articulating surface of the bone which plays in the acetabulum, rested be- tween the trochanters consolidated to the body of the bone by ligamentous union, and the thicken- ing of the surrounding parts, whilst all the inter- vening neck of the bone v/as absorbed. (See h/tetcJuis of the Medical Schools of Paris hy J. G Crosse, p. 90.) M. Roux has also nearly always found the neck of the femur shortened and de- formed after its reunion. {Parallele de la Chir Angloise avec la Chir. Framboise, p. 178.) The specimens in the museum of University College exhibit the usual disappearance of more or less of the same part. Desault, however, in his prac- tice, is said to have rarely met with instances of Jameness from such a cause. A question formerly much agitated (see EarWs Practical Ohs. in Surgery, Lond. 1823 ; and Ameshurys Ohs. on the Nature and Treatment of Fractures of tU Upper Third of the Thigh-bone, ^c. Lond. 1829, ed. 2) was, whether reunion by bone ever follows cases in which the fracture ts entirely within the capsule, and the head of the bone insulated, except at its attachment to the acetabulum by the round ligament? Many years ago the decision of the French surgeons was in the affirmative, and they believed the fact to be actually demonstrated by preparations in their museums. M. Roux sent a specimen to Sir A. Cooper, with the hope of producing conviction; but this eminent surgeon was not satisfied with the evidence, because the traces of reunion in that preparation appeared to him to indicate a sort of fracture, where the internal fragment still re- tained some connexion with the capsular ligament, {Rojuc, Parallele de la Chirurgie Angloise, ^c. p. 179, 180.) In fact, it was a case in which the fracture happened at the junction of the cer- vix with the trochanter. Sir A. Cooper never denied the possibility of what M. Roux and others alleged, but only stated, that in all the ex- aminations which he had then made of transverse f ractures of the cervix fimoris, ivithin the capsular ligament, he had never met with a bony union, or with any tvhich did md adm it of motion of one hone upon the other. (Surgical Essays, part'ii. p. 39.) bince that period, however. Sir Astley Cooper has satisfied himself that osseous union sometiincs takes place, and he has in his own collection a kind «P<^""i«n of it, which he was Kind enough to sho^v to me about two years ago. acknolTl f ''^ univorsali; acknowledgrd ; but the cure in this way is far less frequent than that by means of a ligamentous connexion. Sir Astley Cooper ascribes the com- mon want of bony union to the fragments not being in contact, and duly pressed against each other, and to the liitlc action in the head of the bone separated from the cervix, "its life being supported solely by the ligamentum teres, which has sonie few vessels ramifying from it to the head ot the bone. These vessels, though neitlier large nor numerous, may yet, according to Amesbury and Uiipuytren, be adequate to the nutrition of the upper fragment. Bisides, it is observed by Du- puytren that the synovial membrane, which in- vests the cartilage, forms a little cul-de-sac at its base, and is distinctly covered by portions of red- dish cellular tissue, in which there are many vessels. (See Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 118.) Mr. Mayo gives two cases exemplifying the appear- ances usually found on dissection; and observes " there are features in them which make it suf- ficiently clear that the absence of bony union does not result from imperfect nutrition, or inad- equate supply of blood to the separated portion." {Outlines of Human Pathology, p. fl.) This gentleman concurs with Dupiiytren, Cruveilhier, and others, that in the union of the shafts of long bones, the surrounding tissues take a prominent part in the act of reparation. But in the fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone within the capsule, these tissues are excluded by the un- torn synovial and capsular membranes from cora^ municating with the fracture. " They are some- times, indeed, seen to make the ordinary effort towards reparation of the adjacent fracture. Thus, a portion of an ossified provisional callus is often met with external to the attachment of the cap- sular membrane to the neck of the femur. But the effort is ineffectual; the callus cannot reach the fractui-e, whether it remains entirely disunited or is glued together by an exudation from the ends of the broken bone. In the cases in which union takes place (continues Mr. Mayo), I believe the process of ossification to be extremely slow. Such instances occur in those only who are not greatly advanced in life at the time of the fracture ; and in whom, through the care with which the joint is kept at rest, direct union by soft substance takes place between the separated portions." {Mayo, ib.) [The impossibility of keeping the part at rest has probably much more to do with causing the non-union than the exclusion of the surrounding tissues. If the ends of the fracture could be main- tained in continued and immoveable contact, they would, except in the very old and feeble, possess in themselves sufficient vitality for their re-union; and probably the only cases in which union has been effected, are those in which this contact has been secured, either by impaction or by the non-laceration of the fibrous covering of the neck.] For the particular appearances found in the dissection of many of these cases, I must refer to the statements of Dr. Colles {Dublin riospital Reports, vol. ii.), and to Sir Asth'y Cooper's own account, from which it seems that in most instances " where no ossilic union is pro- duced, nature makes slight attempts for its produc- tion upon the neck of the bone, and upon the tro- chanter major, but scarcelj' any upon the head of the bone; and that, if any union is produced, it is by ligament only." (Vol. cit. p. 46. Also, Maya's Outlines of Human Pathology,^. 9.) Mr. Wilson's