I against a post, which he did not see. The conse- quence was the rupture of the bladder. The otlier specimen was taken from a fine young man, a patient of my own ; the injury having occurred \viiile the bladder was very full of urine, as he was wrestling with another person, whose knee in the fall made violent pressure on the abdomen, just above the pubes. Also the accident has sometimes been caused by a general concussion of the whole frame, such as a fall from a height, without any direct force acting on the vesical region itself. (See Cusaclcs case in Dtihlin Hos. Rep. vol. ii.) Again, the bladder may be ruptured by violent exertion, and repeated straining to empty it when over-distended, in consequence of some obstruction to the flow of urine, or during the violent efforts of parturition. Lastly, it sometimes gives way from gangrene, when it has been long in a state of forced distension, or when, being in a state of plenitude, it is subjected to the long-continued pressure of the uterus during a protracted labour, or, in the earlier periods of utero-gestation, to the pressure on it caused by a retroversion of the womb, as exemplitied in the cases recorded by Dr. William Hunter. {Med. Obs. and Inq. vol. iv. and V. Lond. 1771; Harrison, in Dublin Journ. of Med. Science, vol. ix. p. ,S52.) In retention of urine, a rupture of the bladder from straining to empty it is not a common event. One instance of it is mentioned by Sir Benjamin Brodie {Oa Dis. of the Urinary Organs, p. 12), and anotiier by Sir Everard Home {On Strictures, vol. ii. p. 240). But, as Dr. Harrison observes, it is doubtful, whether, in the latter case, the opening in the bladder was the effect of a sudden lacer- ation caused by muscular exertion, or of some preceding ulcerative or gangrenous affection at the particular point where the organ gave way. Generally, however, in retention of urine from stricture, when the urine becomes effused, it is not from a rupture of the bladder, but from that of the urethra behind the stricture, or in the imme- diate vicinity of the prostate gland. {Harrison, in Dub. .Journ. Med. Science, vol. ix. p. 352.) It would appear from Dr. Harrison's investiga- tions, that when the distended bladder in the male lias been ruptured by a fall or blow on the hypo- gastric region, or by a general concussion, that portion of it which is covered by the peritoneum has very generally been the seat of rupture ; the urine has conse<juently been effused in the abdo- men, and the patient has been destroyed by peri- tonitis. The following is the explanation offered by Dr. Harrison of the fact, that, when the bladder is ruptured by a blow, or general concussion, the laceration is almost always found in that part of the organ which is covered by the serous mem- brane. " Tlie several tunics of the bladder allow of considerable distension, but least of all the peritoneal: when, tlicrefore, the bladder becomes fully distended, and is then subjected to any sndden, or violent, compressing force, this tunic, which is then tense, and comparatively unyield- ing, will crack, while the subjacent tunics, which are connected to it, will be torn along with it; whereas, in other situations, where cellular tissue occupies th-! pl;ice of the senius mcMihrane, the coats of the bladder will yield considerably be- fore they give way, or admit of laceration." (See Da/j, Journ. of Med. Science, vol. ix. p. 37],) 315 13LADDER. The bladder being pressed forcibly against the promontory of the sacrum in the male, seems to Dr. Harrison also to account for the rent being usually in the posterior region of that viscus. The rarity of the accident in females is ascribed by him to the greater size of the pelvis, the cavity of which is not so extensively occupied by the bladder when this is full of urine. " Nor (says he) does the bladder incline so much backwards as in the male ; on the contrary, it inclines more forwards, and enlarges more in the transverse direction ; while the uterus and its lateral broad folds, may assist to break the shock of any ex- ternal violence applied to the hypogastric region, and so prevent the direct concussion of the bladder against the sacral promontory." (Vol. cit. p. 372.) The comparative infrequency of a rupture of the bladder in children and boys is referred to their rarely suffering the bladder to become much dis- tended with urine, and, in part, to the smaller size of the sacral promontory, and to the bladder, when full, lying in early life more in the abdomen. [The investigations of M. Houel, who has lately inquired into this subject, do not corroborate Dr. Harrison's statement that the rupture is almost exclusively at the posterior part of the bladder. M. Houel has collected thirtj--seven observations of rupture of the bladder from external violence. Of these, fifteen only were at the posterior part • all, or nearly all, communicating with the perito- neal cavity. Twelve were on the anterior aspect, and without laceration of the peritoneum. Three were placed laterally, one with, two without, peri- toneal communication. Two were at the summit ot the bladder. In two the seat of the rupture was not stated, but it communicated with the peritoneal cavity. Three were double. The rup- ture, therefore, is neariy as frequent on the anterior as on the posterior aspect. Those on the posterior aspect are almost always accompanied by laceration ot the peritoneum, and effusion of urine into the serous cavity : those on the anterior aspect ordi- narily leave the peritoneum uninjured, and the fluid IS effused mto the cellular tissue of the pelvis In the latter case, if the opening is large, the effusion IS rapid and abundant, and the urine spreads widely beneath the peritoneum, It may reach posterioriy to the kidneys, anterioriy to the umbilicus. It has even been known to extend into the thigh, by passing through the obturator fora- men. In neariy all such cases, peritonitis is rapidlv developed, and the cellular tissue becomes ex tensively gangrenous. (See Houiil, Des Plaies et das liupltiresdela Vessie, T/the dc Conconrs, 1057 and Nc/uton, El&m. de Pathol. Chir. t. v. 1850 p 160) Sometimes, when the rupture is small' or when there is any impediment to the free effusion of urine so that It escapes but slowly, the areolar tis ue' instead of being dillusely infiltrated, may become com eiised into a sort of cyst containing tife effS i ll 1, and connnunicating with the awity of the bladder. In this case also, if the urine cannot eadily re urn nito the bladder so as to be drawn off through the catheter, it gives rise to indainmluio wlHch soon becomes propagated to the peritoneum! (See A'cfate, loc. at. p. ]0'4.) M. Houel in .addition to the thirty-scven cases from external violence, already allude.l to collected seven instances of spontaneous rupture, that is to say, ruptuio from over-distension of the bladder when there was some mechanical impediment to