603 EAR. was so considerably thickened, tliat there was no chance of restoring it to a healthy state, Portal questioned whether it might not be advisable to make a small opening in it? (Precis de C/iir. Pratique, t. ii. p. 430.) This operation, which is said to have been first suggested by Cheselden, will be considered in the ensuing section. Moi-gagni found the cavity of the tympanum intersected by numerous membranes, which im- peded the movements of the ossicula. {Epist. an. vi. § 4.) Meckel does not mention any example of a de- ficiency of all the ossicula. (Ilandb. des Pathol. Amt. b. i. p. 402.) Mersanni, however, found the incus wanting. (BonetSepulch. t. i. sect. 19, obs. 4, § 1.) Caldani, the malleus and incus. (Epist.ad Halter, t. vi. p. 142.) The latter case was unat- tended with any bad effect on the hearing ; the first with deafness. In a deaf child, three years of age, Bailly found the ossicula of only ^ their proper size. (Bonet Sepuloh. t. i. sect. 19, obs. 4, § 3.) In an example, where the fenestra rotunda was obstructed, Cotunnius found the ossicula twice as large as natural. {De Lahyrinthi Auris con- tcntis, § 72, and MeckeVs Handh. des. Pathol. Anat. b. i. p. 402.) A case, in which all the ossicula were wanting, is on record. (See Diet, des Sciences Mid. t. xx.xviii. p. 114.) [Of the causes of deafness alluded to in this sec- tion— "affections of the tympanum"—the most common are : 1st. Myringitis, or inflammation of the membrana tympani, which most frequently commences in a subacute form, affording but little other indication of the disease beyond the resulting deafness, until it be examined in.a good light. It may commence in the acute or chronic condition, then exhibiting the appropriate symptoms of severity or slowTiess ; in the former case the cardinal signs of inflammation are very marked and prominent, yet unaccompanied by deafness until a change in the or- ganisation of the membrane is effected beyond the mere increased vascularity. In the latter state effusion of fibrine takes place between the layers of the membrane, thickening its structure, and giving rise to a veiy marked deafness. Acute myringitis, when uncomplicated, most frequently subsides upon appropriate treatment ; but it may terminate in ulceration, either through the mem- brane, or confined to the surface, or an aphthous appearance of the cuticular coverings may result: granulations from these ulcerated surfaces may oc- cur, producing the vegetations to which allusions have already l)een made. 2nd. Tympanitis, or inflammation of the mucous membrane lining the cavity of the tympanum. This alTection may be simply of the catarrhal character, producing an accumulation of mucus, and of course corresponding deafness, resulting from the impossi- bilit}-of the vibrations of themenil)rane or the oscilla- tions of the bones being maintained ; a condition wiiich generally subsides as the cause passes away, the nuicus either escaping through the Eustachian tube or becoming absorbed. The tympanitis often extends to the sulimucous ti3Sue,to the proper textures of the membrana tympani, nccnsioningmyringo tym- panitis, and terminating in thickening of the whole structures, or in the formation of bands of librinc ankyhising the ossicles together and to the fenes- tra ovalis, and thus not infrequently producing per- manent deafness. These cireimistances ought to direct the surgeon's careful attention to the _trcat- ment of such cases in their early and incipient form. Acute tympanitis also terminates in sup- puration of the cavity of the tympanum, which Ii.ip- pily usually extends through the membrane,and thus the pus finds its customary discharge; it sometimes, more happily still, finds an escape through the Eustachian tube; which, liowever, in these severe cases is generally nearly closed towards the tympa- nic cavity: suppuration also extends backwards into the mastoid process, diseasing tho.se cells. Disease of these cells not at all infrequently extends out- wards through the bony parietes, forming external abscess, which is most constantly seated between the periosteum and the bone. Severe cases of tympanitis will ulcerate the parietes of the tympanum, and thus extend the disease through the walls to the dura mater and to the brain; it most frequently finds its way through the superior surface, but the inflammation of the bone is often traceable through the posterior as well as the anterior wall. This most severe form of t3mipanitis is constantly the result of malignant scarlet fever, as has been already observed. Further, it not infrequently happens that suppurations of the tympanum extend to the aqueduct of Faliopius, paralj'sing the portio dura, either by directly implicating that nerve in the disease, or by simple pressure of the pus upon its structure. The treatment in these various forms of inflammation must be for the most part strictly antiphlogistic, and conducted upon the ordinary principles of surgery. Catheterism of tlie Eustachian tube is often a most valuable adjunct in accumu- lations of mucus in the cavity of the tympanum.] 12. Obstruction of the Eustachian Tube. This is often the cause of a considerable degree of deafness, because it is necessary for perfect hear- ing, that air shoidd be conveyed from the mouth through this passage into the cavity of the tym- panum, which now can no longer happen. A degree of deafness generally attends a severe cold, which is accounted for by the Eustachian tube being obstructed with thickened mucus. Mr. Saunders tells us, that the obstruction most frequintly arises from syphilitic ulcers in the throat, or sloughing in the cynanche maligna. The deafness comes on when such sores are healed, that is, when the obstruction is complete. The descent of a nasal polypus into the pharyn.\-, and enlarged tonsils, have also been known to close the tube. (P. 42.) When the Eustachian tube is obstructed, the patient cannot feel the membrana tympani crackle as it were, in his ear, on blowing forcibly with his nose and mouth stopped. A history of previous ulceration, or disease, of the throat will sometimes facilitate the diagnosis. When the Eustachian tube is obstructed with mucus, it has been proposed to employ injections, which are to be thrown, by means of a syringe and catheter, into tlio guttural orifice of that canal. This operation will be presently described. [True stricture of the Eustachian tube is of rare occur- rence, though it has been frequently described.] Sir A. Cooper had noticed, that hearing was only impaired, not lost, when suppuration ?n the tympanum had injured, and even destroyed tho membrana tympani, and that tho degree "of deaf- ness by no means equalled what resulted from an obstruction of the Eustachian tube. Ileiicc, when the tube was permanently obliterated, he conceived,