DISLOCATION, twenty-seven days, were ineffectual. The first patient died of rupture of the axillary artery, The second and third were seized immediately after the operation with palsy of the arm, from which the former scarcely recovered at all, and the latter but very imperfectly ; consequently, the brachial nerves must have been injured. The fourth was attacked with palsy of the entire side, and died of inflammation and softening of the spinal cord in the neck produced by the four lowest branches of nerves, which form the brachial plexus, being torn out of the spinal cord by the roots. And the fifth suffered laceration of all the soft parts around the elbow joint, and probably of the arteries also, and lost entirely the use of the forearm. (See Flaubert, m Repertoire Gintral, 4'c. t. iii.) One instance, in which a woman died from the violence used in at- tempting to reduce a dislocated shoulder, is recorded by Sir A. Cooper. (On Dislocations, p. 422.) Professor Gibson has met with two instances, in which the axillary artery, which had become firmly adherent to the head of the bone, was torn across, and the patients lost their lives. One of the dislocations had existed nine weeks ; the re- duction took up an hour and three quarters ; and, on the following day, a swelling of an aneurismal character was noticed. The subclavian artery was taken up ; but the patient died. (See Amer. Journ. of Med. Science, No. 3, and A7ner. Ed. of this Diet, hxj Dr. Reese.) [Dr. Warren, of Boston, U.S., has recorded a case in which, after the reduction of a dislocated shoulder, the arm became greatly swollen, and a tumor formed in the axilla, which burst at the end of thirty-eight days, and gave rise to an alarming hsemorrhage. _ The subclavian artery was ligatured above the clavicle, and the patient recovered. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxix. p. 25, 1846.) Many other instances of serious and fatal mischiefs result- ing from attempts to reduce dislocations might with out difficulty be adduced. Suppuration in and around the joint, and even gangrene of the limb, have been known occasionally to occur. (See Mai gaigne, Traite. des Fract. S^'c. vol. ii. p. 143.)] The experience of Dupuytren proves, after all, however, that old dislocations may frequently be reduced at so late a period as eighty-two days, and even more ; that this may generally be accom- plished without much torture to the patient; and that with proper precautionary measures, none of the serious accidents occur which M. Flaubert met with. In seven of Diipuytren's cases, the dislocation had existed only for a week or less. In five, it had continued fifteen or eighteen daj's. In three, be- tween twenty-one and twenty-six days. In three, between thirty-one and thirty-seven days. In five, between forty-one and fifty-two days. In four, between sixty and eighty-two days. In two, for three months ; and in two, for two years. In one of the last, reduction was not attempted ; and, in another of seventy-six days' standing, three at- tempts were unsuccessfully made to reduce a dis- location of the elbow ; but, in all the rest the operation was completely successful. (See M. Manv, in Repertoire Gin. d'Anat. Sic 1829 ; also, Dupuytren, Vlin. Chir. t. i. p. 121, &c.) It deserves notice, that Dnpuvtren's own success- im cases were twenty-three ; that he never em- ployed pulleys ; and that, in attempting to reduce olcl dislocations of the shoulder, he made the ex- tension considerably upwards, as first recommend. 1 by Charles White of Manchester, afterwards b M. Mothe, and of late years by M. Malgai(?ne. He always availed himself of as long a lever as he could obtain by applying the extending means as far from the dislocated joint as was practicable. Ihus, in dislocations of the shoulder, the extension was made at the wrist; in those of the hip, it was made just above the ankle. [Prolonged extension has sometimesbeen attended with advantage in old dislocations. In a disloca- tion of the elbow of six months' standing, Mr. Darke kept up extension with the pulleys for eight hours and a half, at the end of which time he was rewarded by the return of the bones to their proper situation. {Prov. Med. Journ. Dec. 1842, p. 250.) A dislocation of the shoulder was reduced by Mr. Mash in'the Northampton Infirmary after exten- sion at intervals with the pulleys for a period of eight hours. [Laiicet, Sept. 1844, p. 773.) A less powerful, but frequently repeated, extension has also been practised. In this waj^ Dr. Stark suc- ceeded in reducing a dislocation of the head of the radius forwards of twentj'-five months' duration, in a child nine years old. He repeated the ex- tension daily for twenty-two days consecutivelj', and the fibrous adhesions became gradually elon- gated, until at length, by pressure and flexion of the joint, the head of the bone could be restored to its place. {Ed. Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. Ixix. 1848, p. 77.) Subcutaneous section of resisting tendons, or of the new fibrous formations, has been practised to facilitate the reduction of old dislocations. Dieffen- bach succeeded by this means in reducing a dis- located shoulder of two j'ears' standing, (see Dislo- cations OP Shoqldeii Joint,) and the practice hag also been followed by success in other cases and especially in old dislocations of the elbow! Sir Charles Bell advised the division of one of the lateral ligaments, in recentdislocationsof the thumb. In one case of dislocation of the elbow, when all means, including the division of the muscles and ligaments, had proved unavailing, M. Blumhardt made a longitudinal incision on each side of the articulation, opened the capsule, freely divided the fibrous adhesions, and replaced the" bones. The limb is said to have recovered its natural mobilitj', and the patient was able to resume his occupation as a carpenter. {Gaz. Med. 1847, p. 238.) Of late years, the ordinary extension and counter- extension has in some cases been dispensed with altogether, and reduction has been effected by manipulating the dislocated limb in different direc- tions. This plan has been especially successful in dislocations of the hip joint, in many instances of which the reduction has been effected with astonish- ing facility by the unaided efforts of the surgeon. For a description of the mode of proceeding, the •eader is referred to the portion of this article do- oted to dislocations of the hip joint. It was in the first instance especially advocated and success- fully practised hy the surgeons of Guy's Hospital.] The reduction of a dislocation is known by the imb recovering its natural length, shape, and direction, and being able to perform certain motions, not possible wliile the bone was out of its place. The patient experiences a great and sudden diminution of pain ; and, very often, the head of the bone makes a noise at the moment when it returns into the cavity of the joint.