491 DIPLOPIA, tbe retina ; which is tlie effect of the first class of causes. Or, the object miiy be depicted in one eye differently from what it is in the other, in regard to size, position, distance, clearness, &c. : this is the effect of the second class of causes. Or, the object mny appear to one eye to be in a different place from that which it seems to the other to occupy ; the effect of the third class of causes. Or, lastly, the sensibility of the optic nerves is defective, so that the image of an object, though it may appear single to one eye as well as the other, yet, in one identical situation will seem double to both of them. AVheu the complaint originates from causes of the first and fourth class, the pa- tient sees things double, whether he is using only one, or both eyes ; but, when it proceeds from the second and third classes of causes, the patient sees objects double only when he is looking at them with both eyes, and no sooner does he shut one, than objects put on their natural single appear- ance. The following are the chief causes of the first class, of a single object being depicted upon the retina as if double :—1. An unevenness of the cornea, which is divided into two or more convex STirfaces. {Haller, Element. Physiol, t. v. p. i35.) According to Beer, this conformation of the cornea is mostly a result of several preceding ulcers of that membrane, in which circumstance the patient sees with the affected eye not merely double, but treble, and quadruple, of which facts Beer has met with some examples. {LehrevondenAugenlcr.h.ii.^. 31.) However, in a far greater number of instances, such unevenness of the cornea, though equally considerable, does not occasion this defect of sight. We have principally an opportunity of observing cases of this sort after tiie operation of extracting cataract. Hence it would seem, that the ine- qualities must be of very particular shape to pro- duce double vision. The diagnosis of this cause is easy enough ; but the removal of it is imprac- ticable ; for, how is it possible to restore the original shape of the cornea ? On this case, however, Beer delivers a more favourable prognosis than Richter ; for he states, that, when the patient is not decrepit, the double vision, from altered shape of the cornea, will gradually disappear of itself, when proper care is taken of the constitution, and in particular of the eye. (B. ii. p. 32.) 2. An inequality of the an- terior surface of the crystalline lens, whereby the same is divided into several distinct surfaces, it is suspected may be one cause of diplopia. M. Prc'vost has given the history of his own case of double vision with a single eye, which he conceives may arise from such a cause. (See Annates de Chiinie, &c. t. 51, p. 210. Paris. 1032.) An in- structive case of irregular refraction from some defect in the lens, is that of Professor Airy, who derived vast assistance from a lens, the spherical surface of which was 3^ inches, and the cylindrical 4^ inches. Vision was most distinct when the cylindrical surface was turned from the eye, find the glass close to the organ. (See Trans, of Cam- bridge Phil. Soc.) A double aperture in the iris, or, as the case is termed, a double pupil, and a deviation of the pupil from its natural position, have been enumerated as causes of diplopia. (^Baumer, in Act. Soc. I/assiac, t. i. No. 27.) However, Ilichter deems the reality of the first of these causes doubtful ; for cases have been noticed where double vision was not the effect of there being two openings in the iris. (Janin, Mem. sur I'CEU.) But, were the disorder actually to origi- nate in this way, the experiment might be made of converting the two apertures into one. The causes of the second class, by the effect of which the object is represented, in regard to its size, position, distance, &c. differently in one eye from what it is in the other, are for the most part rather possible, than such as have been actually observed. The causes which make objects assume an appearance contrary to the real one, may some- times be confined to one eye, to which things are depicted diversely from what they are to the other healthy eye, so that the patient sees, as it were, double. Thus, for example, there may be a stronger refraction of the rays of light in one eye than the other ; the patient may be myopic with one eye, and presbyopic with the other; and then the object will seem to one eye large, to the other small ; to one eye distant, to the other plainly near. This state of the sight, indeed, is said to have occurred after operating upon a cataract in one eye. {Heiiermann.) However, that this is not always the consequence of operating upon a cata- ract in one eye, while the other is perfect, is suffi- ciently clear. (See Cataract.) In particular examples, perpendicular objects seem to have a sloping posture. When it is considered that only one eye is thus affected, and that to it things will appear sloping, and to the other straight, double vision must be the effect. (See Sight, defects OF.) When both eyes are so directed to an object that it becomes situated in the axis of vision of each of these organs, such object is represented in both at the same place, that is, it is depicted upon that part of the retina on which the axis of sight falls. Thus, the object seems to both eyes to be in the same place, and though the two organs discern the thing, it only communicates a single appearance. But when one eye is turned to any object in such a way that the object is situated in the axis of vision of this eye while the opposite eye is so turned that the same object is placed on one side of its axis of vision ; in other words, when a person squints ; the object is depicted in one eye upon a different part of the retina from what it is in the other; conse- quently, the object appears to the two respective organs to be differently situated, and the patient is affected with diplopia. This is the third species of this disorder, which arises from strabismus as a third kind of occasional cause. Such patients na- turally see objects double only when they behold them with both eyes. A lady, whom I know, is much annoyed with diplopia, the effect of deep- seated disease in the orbit, whereby the eye is forced out of its natural position. See Strabismus, A person who squints usually has one eye stronger than the other, and the weakness of one of those organs is the common cause of the strabis- mus. Such a person does not see objects double, because he only sees with one eye well, and with the other so faintly and imperfectly, that scarcely any impression is made. Hence, every case of strabismus is not necessarily combined with diplo- pia ; indeed, the common kind of squinting is not joined with it. A person affected with strabismus, only sees double when tlie sight of each eye is equally strong, and when the squinting does not depend upon any weakness of one of the eyes, but upon some other occasional causes. The principal