3 1 3 H.EMORIU-IAGE. the wound towards the heart, must check the effusion of blood. The current of blood in the veins, running in the opposite direction, requires tlie pressure to be applied to that side of the wound which is most remote from the heart. However, on account of the freedom and facility with which the blood is transmitted through tlie anastomosing branches, from the portion of the artery above the point of pressure into the branches of the lower continuation of the artery, such pressure will often only check, and not effectually stop the bleeding, unless the part of the vessel directly below the wound be also compressed or secured. As pressure is the most rational means of impeding haemorrhage, so it is the most effectual; and almost all the plans employed for this purpose are only modifications of it. The tourniquet, the ligature, the application of a roller and compresses, even agaric itself, only become useful in the suppression of haemorrhage, on the principle of pressure: the cautery, caustics, and styptics, however, have a different mode of opera- tion. In order to prevent a wounded person from dying of haemorrhage, Celsus advised the wound to be filled with dry lint, over which was laid a sponge dipped in cold water, and pressed on the part with the hand. If, notwithstanding these means, the hstmorrhage should continue, he recom- mends repeatedly applying fresh lint, wet with vinegar; but he is against the use of corroding escharotic applications, on account of the inflamma- tion which they produce, or only sanctions the employment of the mildest ones. When the haemorrhage resists these methods, he advises two Ucjalures to be applied to the luounded part of the vessel, and tlien dividing the portion situated between them :—" Quod si ilia quoqiie prqfluvio vincuntur, vence, qU(B sanguinem fundunt, apprehendendce, circar/ite id, quiid icium est, duobus lucis deliganda, intercidendceqne sunt, ut et in se ipsm coeant, et niliilominus ora prceehtsa habeanty (Lib. v. cap. 26.) When the ligature was impracticiible, the wound bled dangerously, and no large nerves, nor muscles, were situated in the bleeding part, Celsus proposed the actual cautery. Galen also mentions tying the vessels for the purpose of stopping haemorrhage ; and there are some traces of the same information in other authors who lived before him, as Arcliigenes and Kufus. Probably, however, the ligature was lit- tle used at these early periods, as may be inferred from the multitude of astringents, caustics, and other applications, which were advised for stopping Heeding, and in which less confidence would have been put, had the use of the ligature been familiarly known. No one can doubt that, if the old sur- geons had had many opportunities of seeing the advantages of the ligature, they would soon have used it after amputations; but so far were they from adopting such practice, that Albucasis, a long ■while afterwards, refused to amputate at the wrist, lest he should see his patient bleed lo death. I'artf is considered as the first who regularly employed the ligature after amputation. His method having been attacked, he modestly defeiuls it in the part of his works entitled Apologie, where he takes great care to impute the origin of it to the ancients; and cites many of them, who had made mention of it. However, he thinks its utility in amputations of sucli consequence, that he ascribes 8j3 his first adoption of this practice to inspiration of the Deity. The method, in which the ancients placed most confidence, for stopping haamorrhage after the am- putation of a limb, was the cauterisation of the cut vessel and surrounding flesh. The parts thus affected by the heat, formed an eschar of greater or less thickness, which blocked up the opening of the vessel, and hindered the blood from escaping. The separation of the eschar, however, which frequently took place too soon, occasioned a return of hcemorrhage, and rendered it the more dangerous, as its suppression was now more difficult than before the cautery had been applied. Sometimes the instrument, being too inucli heated, immediately brought away with it the eschar. At the present time, the cautery is never emplo3'ed as a means of suppressing haemorrhage, or, at most, only in a few very unusual cases, in which neither compression nor the ligature can be made use of. In Great Britain, the cautery is never employed, except in circumstances of this description; but in France, the best hospital surgeons now and then employ it to stop bleedings from the anus, antrum, and mouth. The old surgeons very commonly applied to bleeding parts pledgets, dipped in boiling turpen- tine,—a practice that has long been most justly- abandoned. Astringents, Styptics, &c. Le Dran says, that a button of vitriol, or alum, applied and properly confined on the extremity of the vessel, is sufficient to stop the haemorrhage in ampiitations. Heister recommends the application of vitriol, in preference to the ligature, in the amputation of the fore-arm. Great praises have also been conferred on agaric, and sponge, for their styptic properties. Solutions of iron, and all the mineral acids in various forms, have been re- commended to the public, as remedies of the same kind, and possessing great efficacy. The ancients, centuries ago, left no application of this nature untried, and the pretended discoveries of new and more effectual styptics in later times, may almost all be met with in their writings. This fact merits particular notice, because the little success attending their practice, especially when bleeding from a considerable artery was to be suppressed, clearly proves what little reliance ought to be placed on means of this description. (MJnei/elopedie Metho- dique, Parlie Ckir.) The most which styptics can do, is to stop haemorrhages from small arteries- but they ought never to be trusted when large vessels are concerned. [Perhaps the most efficient styptic ie a saturated solution of the perchloride of iron, applied to and gently pressed upon the bleeding surface by means of a small piece of sponge or lint. This soluticni acts by promoting coagulation of the blood, as well as by inducing contraction of the blood-vessels. With this view it has been used as an injection in nsevi and in varicose veins. (See N^vus, Varicose Veins, &c.)] There is no doubt tliat cold air has a styptic property ; by which expression, I mean that it promotes the contraction of the vessels. We frequently tie on the surface of a wound every artery that betrays the least disposition to bleed, HO long as the wound continues exposed to the air! We bring the opposite sides of this wound into