162 ANEURISM. — ought to be coiisidered as more likely to do liarm than benefit. In cases of a completely' opposite description, bandages have produced, and may pro- duce, a radical cure, and should not be entirely disused. {Scarpa, On Aneurism, ed. 2, p. 221.) Guattani first employed compression systema- tically for the cure of aneurisms ; and out of four- teen cases in which he adopted the plan, foiu- were cured by it. Be it remarked, that tliis distin- guished surgeon applied, first charpie and com- presses over the tumor, and then a roller, with only moderate tightness, from the lower part of the swelling to the upper part of the limb. _ The bandage, which was kept wet with an astringent refrigerant lotion, was changed about once in three weeks. The patient was kept on a very low diet, perfectly quiet in bed, and a few general bleedmgs were practised. Mr. Freer details some other ex- amples of success, and so does Lisfranc (Op. cit. p. 29); but, in general, pressure has hitherto been applied to the tumor itself,— a method less likely to answer than that of making pressure on a sound part of the artery. Mr. Freer recommends the employment of Sennfio's instrument, or the following method :—First place a bandage, mode- rately tight, from one extremity of the limb to the other ; then put a pad upon the artery, a few inches above the tumor ; next, surrounding the limb with a tourniquet, let the screw be fixed upon the pad, having previously secured the whole limb from the action of the instrument by a piece of board, wider than the limb itself by which means the artery only will be compressed, when the screw is tightened. The tourniquet should now be twisted till the pulsation in the tumor ceases. In a few hours the limb will become oedematous and swelled, when the tourniquet may be removed, and the pressure of a pad and roller will afterwards be enou<rh. In experiments which this gentleman made on the radial arteries of horses, these vessels were found to become inflamed, and to be ren- dered impervious, by such a process. (Freer, p. 112.) Dubois is stated to have cured an aneu- rism of the thigh by steady pressure on the vessel for twenty-four hours. {Med. CMr. Trans, vol. iv. p. 437.) , ,. r Sir A. Cooper describes another machine lor compressing the femoral artery, in cases of pop- liteal aneurism : it was used by Sir W. Blizard —"The points of support for this instrument were the outer part of the knee and the great trochanter, a piece of steel passing from one to the other ; and to the middle of this a semicii^ cular piece of iron was fixed, which projected over the femoral artery, having a pad at its end, moved by a screw, by turning which the artery was readily compressed, and the pulsation in the aneurism stopped, without any interruption to the circulation in the smaller vessels." But although the patient on whom it was tried possessed un- usual fortitude, he was incapable of supporting tlie pressure of the instrument longer than nine hours. {Med. and Pbjs. Journal, vol. viii.) Mr. White, of the Westminster Hospital, tried pressure, by means of a newly invented spring, supposed to possess peculiar advantages. " The woman bore the pain heroically for five days, but the parts compressed sloughed deeply. The cure was com- pleted ; but (says Mr. Guthrie), the pain danger, and risk incurred, were infinitely greater han any which could have been sustained from the usual operation." {On Dis. of Arteries, p. 142.) Few patients, indeed, can endure the pressure of such instruments a quarter of this time, when they are put on sufficiently tight to afford any chance of obliterating the artery ; and, on account of tho suffering which they produce, they are rarely used by modern surgeons. THE TKEATMENT OP ANEURISM 3Y COMPRESSION. [In consequence of the dangers and difficulties attendant upon the use of the ligature, surgeons have for many years past endeavoured to treat aneurism by compression. The employment of direct pressure on the aneurism was almost na- turally suggested as a means to counteract the ex- tension of the disease by the pressure of the blood from within, and has, consequently, been applied from a very early period in the treatment of the affection. This plan of treatment was first em- ployed by Bourdelot, at the close of the seventeenth century ; afterwards by Genga, Heister, Guattani, and others. These surgeons made the pressure directly upon the sac; and Guattani and Flajani relate several cures that they effected in this way ; but the method was so uncertain in its results, and so dangerous, from irritating and inflaming the sac, that it fell into disuse. The French surgeons in- troduced a modification of the pressure plan, by laying open the sac, clearing out its contents, and applying the pressure directly over the ends of the vessel. Deschamps exposed the artery leading to the sac, and compressed this with an instrument he termed the " presse artere." These barbarous modes of treatment, however, were entirely set aside by the facility and comparative success of the Hunterian operation, and compression in aneurism was rarely practised by surgeons after the great step made by John Hunter in the treatment of this disease. Yet we find that John Hunter him- self, Blizard, and Freer attempted, though with but little success, to cure this disease by pressure on the artery leading to the sac. Pelletan and Dubois appear to have been the first who employed the pressure upon the artery above the sac, instead of upon the aneurism itself: this was in I»1U. Since this period various attempts were made methodically to treat aneurisms in this way; but the merit of having introduced the practice of com- pression in the treatment of aneurism into modern surgery, of having given it a definite place in our art and of having established the true principles on which it acts, incontestably belongs to the Dublin surgeons; amongst whom, the names ot Hutton, Bellinghara, Tufnell, and Cai-te deserve especial mention. In the early trials of the cure of aneurism by compressing the artery on the car- diac side of the tumor, the surgeons who employed this method acted on an erroneous theory, and tlie principle not being understood, the practice .^^s bad. It was supposed that it was necessaiy foi the cure to take place, that the ^ol>o e flow of blood through tho artery should be entirely arrested, that i flanimation of the vessel at the V^f^^^^}^^^ should be set up, and that the consohdaUon of e aneurism depended upon the o^^truct on of vessel consequent upon this >"fl'!>"7'^ led to compression l^ci"g.'>-^'='-"^^'^.„, ^.l^he ar with the view of exciting i»fl'™"«t'°" .":ff terv that the patient could seldom beai Jt tor a S'cient length of time to effect a cure, Blough.ng