shall see that Jones's experiments show the same thing, and the pai ticuhir circumstances in ' which it may happen. But the occurrence is rare, and Scarp a says that it can hardly be called a vcidiccil cure, as the cicatrix is always found in a state ready to burst and break, if the arm be, by any accident, violently stretched or struck wliere the wound was situated. In the spontaneous cure of aneurisms, arising from arteries of inferior size to that of the aorta, repeated examinations have proved, that the deposition of coagulum does not merely fill up the sac, but obliterates the tube of the artery, above and below the disease to the next important ramifications. Yet, even here, exceptions probably take place; for Mr. Hodgson has brought forward one instance, in which a small sac, which originated from the anterior artery of the cerebrum, was completely filled with firm coagulum, which did not extend into the cavity of the vessel. (On Diseases of Arteries, p. 132.) And he reports the particulars of a ince femoral aneurism, counnu- nicated to him by Sir A. Cooper, in which, after the patient's death, the femoral artery was found dilated into a sac, which was lined on all sides with 7ery firm layers of coagulum, in the centre of which was an irregular canal, through which the circulation was continued. As the inside of this canal presented a membranous appearance, it was inferred that the aneurism had been cured. (Op. cit. p. 134.) Here I may be permitted to remark, that, if this case be correctly reported, viz. if it were a true aneurism by dilatation of all the arte- rial coats, and the inside of it was evert/ trhcro lined by firm layers of coagulum, it amounts to a proof that such a deposition is not entirely confined to aneurisms by rupture, as Scarpa supposes. And, in addition to this fact, I may mention, as referring to the same question, a case of aneurism from dilatation of the arterial coats, observed by Guattani, where the same process took place. " Arterize iliacEe ovalem banc partem aneurysraa- ticam polyposa substantia variae densitatis adeo infarctam esse denotebam, ut tunicarura ejusdem forma penitus destructa in uniformem massam, spongiae cera imbutfe similem, transformata vide- retur. (Hist. xvii. Colled. Lauth. p. 1S8.) Whenever the ulcerated, lacerated, or wounded artery is accurately compressed against a hard body, like the bones, it ceases to pour blood into the surrounding cellular sheath, because its sides being kept in firm contact, for a certain extent above and below the breach of continuity, become united by the adhesive inflammation, and con- verted into a solid ligamentous cylinder. Moli- nelli, Guattani, and White give examples and plates illustrative of this fact. When aneurisms get well spontaneously, the same fact is observed after death, as Valsalva, Ford, &c. have demon- strated, I have myself seen, in St. Bartholomew's HospiUil, an instance in which a man had had a spontaneous cure of an aneurism in the left axilla, but afterwards died of hemorrhage from another aneurismal swelling under the right clavicle : the artery on the left side was found completely impervious. Dr. Albert had under his care, in the York Hospital, Chelsea, a dragoon, who recovered spdutaneously of a very large aneurism of the external iliac artery : the tumor sloughed, lischarged about two quarts of coagulated blood' md then granulated, and finally healed up'. ANEURISM. Paoli relates n similar termination of a popliteal aneurism, and Moinichen and Guattani give other examples. Hunter found the femoral artery quite impervious, and obliterated, at the place where a ligature had been applied fifteen months before. Boyer noticed the same fact in a subject, eight years after the operation. Petit describes the spontaneous cure of an aneurism at the bilurcation of the right carotid : the subject having afterwards died of apoplexy, the vessel, on dissection, was found closed up and obliterated from the bifur- cation as far as the right subclavian artery. Desault had an oppurtunity of opening a patient, in whom a spontaneous cure of a popliteal aneurism was just beginning: he found a very hard, bloody thrombus, extending for three finger-breadths into the tube of the artery, above the sac, and so firm, that it resisted an injection, and made it pass into the collateral branches. Both the spontaneous and surgical cures of aneurisms have generally two stages : in the first, the entrance of the blood into the aneurismal sac is interrupted ; in the second the parietes of the artery approach each other, and, becoming agglu- tinated, the vessel is converted into a solid cylinder. This doctrine is corroborated by the tumor first losing its pulsation, and then gradually diminishing and disappearing. In order that compression may make the op- posite sides of an artery mrite, and thus produce a radical cure of an aneurism, Scarpa says, the degree of pressure must be such as to place these opposite sides in firm and complete contact, and such as to excite the adhesive inflamraatiou in the coats of the artery. The point of compression must also fall above the laceration or wound of the artery ; for when it operates below, it hastens the enlargement of the tumor ; and Scarpa adds, that, in practice, bandages which are e.xpulsive' and compressive, are more useful for makin- pressure than any tourniquets or instruments! many of which are contrived to operate, without retarding the return of blood through the veins. In order that pressure may succeed, the coats of the vessel, at the place where it is made, must be sufficiently free from disease to be susceptible of the adhesive inflammation. When the arterial coats, round the root of the' aneurism, are much diseased, Scarpa considers them as insusceptible of the .adhesive inflammation, although compressed togetlier in the most scientific manner, and even wlien tied with a ligature, which only ,ncts by making circular pressure o;i the vessel. Some .advise trying compression in every case of aneurism, whether small, circumscribed soft flexible, indolent, or elevated, difi-used, hard, and painful. But, in the latter case, Scarpa represents compression .is decidedly hurtlul. He s.ays also ^hat every band.aac which compres'ses the alieurism! and also circulariy constricts the affected part is .ahv.ays injurious. The bandage, likewise, which compresses only the aneurism, and directs the point of pressure below the rupture in the vessel • that which, on .-iccouiit of the great size, exquisite sensibility, depth of the root of the aiiet'rism and fleshy state ol the surrounding parts, cannot cfl'ect- "ally compress the artery against the bones, so as to bring the opposite sides of the vessel into con- tact ; and, lastly, the compression applied to a spontaneous aneurism, attended with a steatoma- tous, ulcerated, earthy disease of the arterial coats • M '