62 AMPUTATION. drevv each bleeding artery gently out with the tenaculum, and tied it as nakedly as possible, with a common slender ligature. When the large ves- sels had been tied, the tourniquet was immediately slackened, and the wound well cleaned, in order to detect any vessel that might otherwise have remained concealed with its orifice blocked up with coagulated blood ; and before the wound was dressed, its whole surface was examined with the greatest accuracy ; by which means Mr. Alanson frequentlj' observed a pulsation, where no hemor- rhage previously appeared, and turned out a small clot of blood from within the orifice of a consider- able artery. He is very particular in recommending every vessel to be secured that is likely to bleed on the attack of the symptomatic fever ; for, besides the fatigue and pain, to which such an accident immediately exposes the patient, it seriously inter- rupts the desired union of the wound. He used always to cleanse the whole surface of the wound well with a sponge and warm water, as he rightly thought that the lodgment of any coagulated blood would be a considerable obstruction to the quick union of the parts. The skin and muscles were now gently brought forwards : a flannel roller was put around the body, and carried two or three times rather tightly round the upper part of the^thigh, as at this point it was intended to form what Mr. Alanson called a suffi- cient basis, which materially added to the support of the skin and muscles. The roller was then car- ried down in a circular direction to the extremity of the stump, not so tight as to press rudely or forcibly, but so as to give an easy support to the parts, The skin and muscles were now placed over the bone in such a direction that the wound ap- peared only as a line across the face of the stump, with the angles at each side ; from which points the ligatures were left out, as their vicinity to either angle might direct. The skin was easily secured in this posture by long slips of linen or lint of the breadth of about two fingers, spread with cerate, or any cooling ointment. If the skin did not easily meet, strips of sticking-plaster were preferred. These were applied from below up- wards, across the face of the stump, and over them a soft tow-pledget and compress of linen ; the whole being retained with the many-tailed bandage, and two tails placed perpendicularly, in order to retain the dressings upon the face of the stump. Mr. Alanson censured the plan of raising the end of the stump far from the surface of the bed with pillows, as the posterior muscles were re- tracted by it; and he considered it best to raise the stump only about a half hand's breadth from the surface of the bed, by which means the mus- cles were put in an easy relaxed position. The many-tailed bandage Mr. Alanson found much more convenient than the woollen cap, frequently used in former times to support the dressings ; iind he observes, that, though this seems well cal- culated to answer that purpose, yet if it bo not put on with particular care, the skin is liable to be drawn backwards from the face of the stump ; nor can the wound be dressed without first lifting up the stump to remove the cap. (Se(! Alunnoii s Practical Ohs.on Anqmtalion, fivo. Lond. 1779.) The chief peculiarity in Alanson's method of operating, namely, the mode in which he recom- mends the oblique division of the muscles to be performed, did not, however, meet with universal approbation ; and his extensive dissection of the skin from the muscles was complained of, as ex- cessively painful. The formation of a conical wound, by following Alanson's directions, was re- garded by several as impracticable. (See Martetis Paradoorieen, b. i. s. 88 ; Loeffler, Beyf.rage, i. No. 7 ; Wardenhurg. Briefe eines Arztes, 2 b. p. 20 ; Ricliier, Anfangsgr. vol. vii. ; Chaefe, Normen, S{c. p. 8; Hey, Pract. Obs.) In my opinion, there can be no doubt of the truth of some of the criticisms made by these, and some other writers, on the impossibility of making a wound, with a regular conical cavity, by observing the directions given by Alanson ; for if the knife be carried round the member with its edge turned obliquely upwards towards the bone, it will pass spirally, and, of coiu"se, the end of the incision will be considerably higher than the beginning. But, though Alanson probably never did himself exactly what he has stated, I am sure that his pro- position of making an oblique division of the mus- cles all round the member has been the source of great improvement in amputations in general. It is true that surgeons do not actually perform the oblioue incision all round the limb by one stroke, or revolution of the knife round the bone, as Alan- son says that he did ; but they accomplish their purpose by repeated, distinct, and suitable appli- cations of the edge of the instrument turned ob- liquely upwards towards the bone or bones. Amongst others, Mynors found fault with some of Alanson's instructions, and thought every de- sideratum might be more certainly attained by saving skin enough, and then cutting through the muscles. The first incision, however, he directed obliquely upwards through the integuments, while they were drawn up by an assistant, and he then cut down to the bone. (Pract. ThougUs on Am- putation, 8vo. Birming. 1783.) The removal of limbs without bloodshed, pro- posed by Guide di Cauliaco in the 14th century, met with modern defenders in J. Wrabetz and W. G. Plouquet. J. Wrabetz, with a ligature which was daily made tighter, took off an arm above the elbow. Into the fissure he sprinkled a styptic powder. On the fourth day the flesh was severed down to the bone, which Wiis sawn through. {GeschiclUe eincs oline Messer ahgcselzcn Ober- arms, 8vo. Freyb. 1782.) Plouquet thought the plan suited to emaciated timid subjects ; but not well adapted to the leg or fore-arm. {Von der Uubliitigen Abnehinuvg der Glieder, 8vo. Tub. 1786.) The only exemplification of the practice of taking off limbs without bloodshed in modern practice, is sometimes afforded in chronic mortifi- cation, where, after the separation of the dead from the living parts down to the bone by Nature her- self, the surgeon saws through the exposed bone. In the North London Hospital, an upper cxtremitj-, attacked with chronic mortification, was thus re- moved by Mr. Listen, a little below the axilla, and the patient, a very old woman, recovered. Some modes of performing flap-amputations, and, in particular, the suggestions and improve- ments made by Hey, Chopart, Dupuytren, Larrey, Lisfinnc, Listen, and other modern practitioners, will be noticed in the description of the amputation of particular members. In the mean time, I .shall conclude this section with mentioning the laudable