believes that,in consequence of the integrity of this portion of the capsule, the rotation inwards becomes more considerable according as the head of the bone is further removed from the cavity. Accord- ing to him it is not, as Sir A. Cooper bclievqd, the position of the head of the bone on the ilium or in the ischiatic notch which causes the degree of the rotation to vnry, but the variation depends rather upon the e.ileitt of the dislocation: when it is " in- complete," there is less rotation, and the groat toe may point towards the opposite toe; when "com- plete," the rotation is greater and causes the toe to point towards the opposite metatarsus, the tarsus, or even the heel, according as the head of the femur is removed to a distance from the cavity. M. Malgaigne thinks the degree of rotation a valuable symptom in distinguishing the complete from what he calls the incomplete dislocation. In estimating the rotation, and also the shortening of .the limb, attention must be paid to the position of the pelvis, for if the injured side of the pelvis is carried more forwards than the sound side, the rota- tion is apparently increased; and in like manner, if the injured side of the pelvis is drawn upwards, the shortening becomes apparently greater. The real shortening depends of course upon the ascent of the femur, and is therefore greater when the bone takes a more upward than when it takes a more backward direction. It is seldom? however, so great as the maximum, mentioned by Sir A. Cooper, of two inches and a half. It may perhaps reach an inch and a half when the dislocation is upwards, but rarely exceeds half an inch, and may often be scarcely appreciable in the dislocation opposite the notch. Proportionate to the ascent of the femur, an elevation of the cutaneous fold of the nates has also been noticed. The loss of prominence of the tro- chanter and flattening of the hip, mentioned by Sir A. Cooper, are not always well marked; indeed, Beyer and many others have noticed an increased prominence in this region. The increased promi- nence may arise partly from inflammatory effusions, and partly from the bulging of the muscles, caused by the approximation of their attachments. The sinking of the trochanter is proportionate to the ro- tation inwards of the limb. Another symptom worthy of notice is the depression which may be felt below Poupart's ligament, in consequence of the absence of the head of the femur from its proper situation.] Mr. C. H. Todd had an opportunity of dissecting the hip joint of a man after the femur had been dislocated on the dorsum of the ilium, the patient having died on the day after the accident from an injury of the head. The luxation had been re- duced. " On raising the gluteus maximus, a large cavity, filled with coagulated blood, was found be- tween that muscle and the posterior part of the gluteus mediiis. This wns tlie situation, which had been occupied by the dislocated extremity of tlie femur. The gluteus mediiis and minimus were uninjured. Tlie pyriformis, gemolli, obturatorcs, and (juadratus, were completely torn across. Some fibres of liio pectincus were also torn. The iliacus, psoas, and adductors were uninjured. The capsu- lar ligament was entire at the superior and anterior part only, and it was irregularly lacerated throiigli- out the remainder of its extent. Tlic intcr-articular ligament was torn out of the depression on the licad of the femur. The bones had not sustained any injury,'' Mr Todd conceives that, wiien this dis- DISLOCATION. ' SS3 location takes place, the force is applied to the in- ferior and external part of the limb, the thigh being at the time in the state of demiflexion; tlie Iiead is thus pushed through the posterior and upper part of tlie orbicular ligament, passes under tlie posterior edge of the gluteus minimus, separating it from the pyriformis, and forms a cavity for itself under the gluteus maximus, or between the gluteus medius and minimus."' (See Dublin Hospital Re- port, vol. iii. p. 396—401.) In an old unreduced partial dislocation on the dorsum of the ilium, dissected by Mr Wallace, and of which he has published many interesting particulars, the posterior edge of the gluteus me-' dins ran exactly over the head of the femur. The case had been attended with a fracture of the su- perior edge of the acetabulum. In consequence of the interruption of the natural movements of the limb, its muscles had become generally wasted, especially the rotators of it outwards, and the ob- turator internus had been transformed into a pecu- liar substance, resembling a mixture of fat and fibro-cartilage. It appeared to Mr. Wallace from what was noticed in this instance, that "nature does not appear to possess the power of forming articular cartilage in those accidental joints, whicK result from unreduced dislocations. The new ar- ticular surfaces are always covered by a lamina of bone, which resembles in appearance that ivory- like substance sometimes found on natural articular surfaces. As a cartilaginous surface cannot play easily on a bony surface, the original cartilage, which may have covered the head of the dislocated bone, becomes absorbed, and its situation occupied by the same kind of tissue as that which forms the new surface, upon which the head of the bone may be applied. In accidental joints, the result of dis- united fracture, the ends of the bones appear to be covered by an articular cartilage of original form- ation; it corresponds in its character to the tem- porary cartilage of bones, or, more properly speak- ing, it is bone in a state of imperfect formation," ()V. Wallace, in Trans, of King's and Queeiis Colleye, Ireland, vol, v. p. 250.) The usu;d change in the shape of the unreduced head of the femur is noticed by this gentleman: in the case adduced by him, one remarkable circumstance was the con- siderable elevation of the pelvis on the injured side; a fact which seems not to agree with a common description of the cause of the opposite kind of obliquity in the position of the pelvis in disease of the hip. With respect to the changes which take place in the head of a dislocated bone, and the kind of accidental joint which often follows, Sir Astley Cooper has adverted to certain dilferences depending on the texture, whether muscular or osseous, on which the head of the bone is lodged. Dr. .Tames Scott had an opportunity of dissecting a hip, in an example of dislocation of the fL'inur liackwards and upwards, where the patient had died, in consequence of a laceration of the intestines, fortj'-eight hours after the accident, and forty hours after the reduction. Amongst other particulars, the following are recorded;—"The gluteus maximus being raised from its origin, a considerable extrava- sation was found in the loose cellular tissue under the gluteus medius. A cavity, capable of containing a pullet's egg, was also brought into view. This cavity was situated directly where the great is- chiatic nerve passes under the pyriforin muscle ; it contained fluid blood ; its boundaries were, the