67 AMPUTATION. similar cases, I. e. aj'lcr amputalion : but how very wide of the truth Mr. John Bell's recent account of this matter is, will appear to every person who will inquire into the fiicts themselves ; for not only were ligatures and needles in use among the an- cients, but likewise the tenaculum, or hook, to lay hold of the Weeding vessels, when they had buried themselves in the ranscles. We refer our inquisi- tive readers to Avicenna, iEtius, Albucasis, Brnnus, Theodoric, Guido di Caulico, John de Vigo, L. Bertapailia, Tagaultius, Petrus Argillata, An- dreas ii Cruce, &C.&C., where they will find enough to satisfy them on this head." {Rees's OydopiBdia, art. Amputation.) I shall not here expatiate upon the ill-treatment which Par^ experienced from the base and igno- rant Gonrmelin ; nor upon the slowness and re- luctance with which the generality of surgeons renounced the cautery for the ligature. These circumstances may be conceived from what has been already stated. Almost ] 00 years after Pare', a button of vitriol was ordinarily employed in the Hotel Dieu at Paris for the stoppage of hemor- rhage after amputations ; and Dionis was the first French surgeon who taught and recommended Pare"3 method. This happened towards the close of the 17th century, while Pare'lived towards the end of the 16th. {Dionis, Cows d'Operat. Paris, 1707.) As Pare', like the rest of the old surgeons, used to cut directly down to the bone, many of the stumps, which he made, must have been badly covered with flesh, and ill fitted for bearing pres- sure. But all that I have read on the subject of amputation, impresses me with a strong conviction, that, in former times, the projection of the end of the bone, the sugar-loaf form of the stump, the frequent exfoliations, and the difficulty in healing the part, and keeping it healed, were as much owing to the mischief done with the cauter}', the rude way of dressing the stump, and ignorance of the method of promoting union hy the first inten- tion, as to the mode of operating, or any other circumstance. What, asks Briinninghausen, was the reason why the ligature of the arteries, which is now re- garded by the surgeons of all civilised rations as the best, easiest, and safest method of stopping he- morrhage after amputation should so long have remained unadopted ? Besides the prejudice for the opinions of the ancients already mentioned, another cause was, undoubtedly, the imperfect knowledge of the circulation of the blood, — a cor- rect description of which was first delivered by the immortal Harvey early in the 17th century. (Krercitatio Anal, de Mctii Cordis et Sanrjuinis in Animalibus. Francof. 1C28.) For some time, this grand discovery met with violent opposition ; but, after it had been acknowledged as an eternal truth, a happy application of it was made to sur- gery by a French surgeon, named Morell, who, at the siege of Besanfon, in 1 674, invented the field tourniquet, by means of which more certain pressure was made on the trunk of the artery. JJy this simple invention, founded, however, on a knowledge of the circulation, the surgeon could at option let the blood of the stump spirt out, or stop its jet entirely ; and now, both during and after the operation, lie was first enabled to command the hemorrhage, and cooliy and judiciously employ whatever measures wore indicated ; for the most powerful bandages and pressure, previously in use, either stopped the circulation in the whole limb, or could not bo made to have the right effect with sufficient quickness. {Brunninghauscn, Erfahr. S(C. iihcr die Amp. p. 36.) Morell's tourniquet, however, was very imperfect ; and it was not till the year 1718, that J. L. Petit, whose name shines so brightly in the history of surgery, invented the kind of tourniquet now employed. Richard Wiseman, who is justly considered as the father of good English surgery, saw the neces- sity of making the incision in the sound parts, because gangrene does not always spread evenly, but frequently extends much higher up one side of the limb than the other. Pie deemed the actual cautery objectionable, as the sloughs were so long in being thrown off. He applied a ligature rottnd the limb, two inches above the limits of the mor- tification, and, drawing up the muscles, made the incision with a large curved knife, with the back of which he scraped off the periosteum. The bag, or sort of retractor, employed by Fabricius Hil- danus, Wiseman thought unnecessary, as the mus- cles spontaneously drew themselves up as soon as divided. He tied the blood-vessels after the man- ner of Pare, and deprecated all burning of the stump. After the operation, he drew the flaps over the bone, and either fastened them in this position with stitches, or a tight bandage; though he gene- rally preferred the former, as the surest means of keeping the end of the bone from protruding. Across the stump he laid a pledget of wax-cerate, and over this a thick layer of Armenian bole and other styptics, and the whole was covered with a bullock's bladder, and a roller applied spirally from the upper part of the remaining portion of the limb, down to the extremity of the stump. On the third day, the dressings were taken off, and a digestive ointment applied. {Cliirurg. Treatises, voL ii. p. 220, 8vo. Lend. 1690.) From this time, amputation may be considered as being an infinitely safer proceeding than it used to be ; for, as we have explained, the ligature of the arteries was now practised and commended m Germany by F. Hildanus, in England by Wise- man, and in France by Dionis. Much, however remained to be done. The wound was large and suppurated long and profusely ; the healing' was slow ; the ends of the bones perished, and, pro- jecting far beyond the soft parts, retarded the cure so long that the patient was not unfrequently worn out. Hence the best surgeons began seriously- to consider what further could be done with a view of lessening the exposed surface' of the wound, and maknig a better covering of flesh for the ends of the bones. . According to Sprengel, most of the old sur geons preserved a flap of flesh, and he is therefore by no means disposed to regard our countryman Lowdham, as the inventor of this method, though t ,s acknowledged that the latter surgeon's prac- tice was novel inasmuch as the flap was formed by making an oblique incision through the integu- ments from below upwards. (See James Yonac's Currus 7rmn,phalis c Terehintlio, 8vo. Lond. i')79; and SprcngeVs Geschichte der Chirurnie, b. 1. p. 408.) Here, if Sprengel means that many ot the old surgeons endeavoured to preserve a partial covering of flesh for the bono, there can bo no doubt of its correctness, because we find that they drew back the flesh before they divided