AMA for amaurosis. It seems to Mr. Middleraore that it3 use should be confined to cases in which the retina is in a state of atony from some cause acting directly upon its texture, or upon its texture through the medium of the general debility of the system. At all events, he is of opinion, that it should not be resorted to when there is much vascular fulness either of the system, or tlie retina, or a tendency to inflammation. Its effects are like- wise to be most carefully watched. An atonic state of the retina, or of some part of the nervous apparatus of the eye, productive of amaurosis, when unconnected with a full plethoric habit of body, determination of blood to the head, or any tendency to apoplexy, or any structural change either in the retina, or its immediate nervous rela- tions, may be treated by means of strychnia, parti- cularly if tonics and general stimulants have been already unsuccessfully tried. The bowels are to be first freely opened, and aperient medicine occasionally given during the use of strychnia. Mr. Middlemore puts a narrow blister above the eyebrow of the affected eye, or above each eye- brow, if both eyes are involved ; and after the cuticle and serum have been removed, sprinkles a small quantity of strychnia upon the raw surface, commencing with the fourth of a grain upon each side. If vision be not improved, this quantity may be gradually increased to two grains ; the part is also dressed-with savine cerate. The strychnia is applied only once in twenty-four hours, and the eyebrow is preferred as the place for its action, on account of the probable special effect of the strj'chnia upon the supra-orbitary nerve, in addition to its other more general influence. If strychnia excite great local uneasiness, it may be blended with a little flour, or powdered opium. Mr. Middlemore observes, that if the patient should become sensible of occasional flashes of light before the eye, soon after the commencement of this treatment, there would be great encouragement to persevere ; but that if vision should be not at all influenced, or improved, after the strychnia had been tried a fortnight in sufficiently powerful but not imprudent quantities, it ought to be discontinued. Strychnia appears to him to be well adapted to the case of miners, whose e3'e3 are affected with incom- plete amaurosis, and who have been accustomed to follow their employment by means of a very feeble light; and also to cases of impaired sensi- bility of the retina, occasioned by too great a delay in cnring congenital cataract. (See Middlemore on Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 282.) Strychnia has also been prescribed as an internal remedy for amaurosis. A more extended experience has not shown that strychnine deserves to occupy any very prominent place as a remedy for amaurosis ; Mr. Tyrrell says that he has frequently tried it in the cases that appeared to him most appropriate, but that he had not seen one single instance of benefit from its employment, although he had persevered till alarm- ing muscular contractions were produced. He considers further that serious mischief has resulted from its indiscriminate use. And Mr. Lawrence states that his opinion coincides with that of Mr. Tyrrell, with reference not only to strychnia, but also to veratria, which ho has found eqiuilly inef- ficacious. {On Dis. of the Eye, ed. p. 565.) Dr. Mackenzie, after mentioning that it has been given, as well as a host of other drugs of similar AMB 4S properties, in the hope that they might produce some stimulating effect on the nerves of sense, states his opinion that it is extremely doubtful if they have ever been productive of the least good effect {On Dis. of tU Eye, ed. 4, p. 1053), and Mr. Dixon says that " its action appears to be so precisely limited to the motory iibres of the nervous system, that to expect it to influence a nerve of special sense, is to confound all our notions of nervous physiology." In no case of impaired or lost vision has he seen it effect the slightest im- provement. {Practical Study of Dis. of the Em, 1855, p. 109.) Trinhn de Krxowitz, Historia Amauroseos, 8vo. Vin- dob. 1781. W. Hey, in Practical Obs. in Surg-ery and Med. Ohs. and Inquiries, vol. v. Sckmucker's Walirnehmunsren, b. i. p. 273. Ricliter's Anfangs- ffriinde der Wundarzneykunst, b. iii. De Wenzel Manuel de I'Oculiste, ou Dictionnaire Ophthalmolo- gique, 8vo. Paris, 1S08. Vermischte Chirurglsche Schriften, von J. L. Schmucker, b. ii. Berlin ed 2 1786. D. G. Kieser, Ueber die Natur, Ursachen', Kennzeichen und Heilung; des schwarze Staars, 8vo Gott. 1811. Langenhech, Neue Bibl. fur die Clii- rurgie, b. i. Hanover, 1815. J. Beer, Lehre von den Augenkrankheiten, b. ii. 8vo. Wien, 1817. .Tames Wardrop, Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, vol. ii. 8vo. Lond. 1818. Remarks on Ophthalmy, &c. by James Ware. Inquiry into the Causes preventing: Success in the Extraction of the M A. Scarpa, Osservazioni suite Malattie desrli Occhi, Venez. 1802. Frick on the Diseases of the Eye, by Welbank, 8vo. Lond ed 2 1826. Some scattered remarks in the posthumous work on the Diseases of the Eye of the late ./ C Saunders, &c. .T. Stevenson on the Nature, &c of the different Species of Amaurosis, 8vo. 1821 ' JB Travers's Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, &c" 8vo. Lond. 1820. Lawrence on Diseases of the Eve' ed. 3, 18W. Middlemore on Diseases of the Eve' vol. li. p. 242, &c. 8V0. Lond. 1835. Dr. Jacob, iA Cyclop, of Pract. Med. part i. Fosbroke's Treatment ot Deafness and Amaurosis by Strychnia applied to a blistered Surface behind the Ear, Lancet, 1831-35 ^- J^'^'"" on the same subject, in Med. Gazette, vol. v. p. 541, and 575. Mackenzie on Diseases of the Eye, ed. 4, Lond. 1854. DalrympWs Pathology of the Human Eye. Lond. 1852. IF/,2<e Vision, ed. 2, Lond. 1853. Dixon on Diseases of the Eye, Lond. 1855. See also articles Cataract, Diplopia, Fungus Hamatodes, Hemeralopia, Hemiopia, Nucta- lopia, Sight, Defects of, ffc. ' u AMBE (from S.ugr;, the projecting edge of a rock). Aw old chirurgical machine for reducing dislocations of the shoulder, and so called because its extremity projected like the prominence of a rock. Its invention is referred to Hippocrates. The ambe is the most ancient mechanical con- trivance for the above purpose ; but it is not at present employed. Indeed, it is scarcely to be met with in the richest cabinets of surgical appa- ratus. It is composed of a piece of wood, risin-r vertically li-om a pedestal. With the vertical piece 18 articulated, after the manner of a hiiitre a horizontal piece, with a gutter formed in it,"in which tho luxated limb is laid and secured with straps. The patient places himself on one side of the machine ; Ins arm is extended in the gutter, and secured ; tho angle, formed by the union of he ascending piece, and by the horizontal branch, 3 lodged 111 the armpit, and then tlio horizontal Drancli n depressed. In this way extension is made, whilst the vertical part makes couiiter-ex- tonsioii and its superior part tends to force tho load of tho humerus into the articular cavity. JJut there is nothing to fix the scapula, and the ennipressiim made by the superior porlion of the