432 CAT^ stood when this operation is considered. As ex- amples of this kind, Beer specifies an extensive adhesion of the iris to the cornea ; a very flat cornea, and of course so small an anterior cham- ber, that an incision of proper size in the cornea cannot be made; a broad arcus senilis; an habi- tually contracted pupil (incapable of being artifi- cially dilated) ; an eye much sunk in the orbit, with a small fissure between the eyelids ; eyes affected with incessant convulsive motions; a partial adhesion of the cataract to the uvea; un- appeasable timidity in the patient; and an im- possibility of managing him during and after the operation, in consequence of his childhood or stu- piditj^ Amongst the circumstances enumerated by Mr. Middlemore as rendering the operation of depression or reclination more advantageous than extraction, is an emaciated feeble condition of the patient, which, if the latter operation were performed, might interfere with the union of the wound in the cornea, and be followed by ulcera- tion, sloughing, and staphyloma of that texture. (See Middlemore, On Bis. oftheEye, vol. ii. p. 111.) The same gentleman also expresses his opinion, that in certain examples of hard cataract, where extraction cannot be performed with propriety, reclination is generally preferable to depression, because not so likely to be followed by a rising of the lens again, or to cause pressure on the retina. He adds, indeed, direct depression of the lens be- neath the pupil is very seldom practised now, as it is in a great measure superseded by extraction and reclination (p. 112). Tlie manner of operating with the needle upon the congenital cataracts of children will be here- after explained. [Until recently we have not been in possession of accurate information as to the statistics of cata- ract in the East Indies. Tliis want has been sup- plied by Mr. W. Martin, Superintendent of the Calcutta Eye Infirmary, who has published a Re- turn of the Principal Operations on the Eye per- formed in that Infirmary between the years 1848 and 1851. {Indian Annals of Medical Science, No. 1.) From this interesting report we learn that the number of cataract operations was 586, comprising lenticular cataracts 373, capsulo-lenti- cular 164, capsular 49. Of these 25 were hard, 116 soft, 24 fluid, 372 mixed, and 49 capsular. The operations were, extraction 14, depression 194, solution 88, drilling 1, laceration of capsule 49. The remainder of the operations were combinations of the above. Mr. Martin states, that extraction is not an operation suited to the Bengalee. The prominent brow, small sunken eye, with a proportionally large lens, render the performance of the operation very difficult ; whilst the feeble constitution ren- ders the union of the section uncertain and rare compared with the same in the European patient. By far the largest proportion of operations found necessary with the natives of India arc depression and depression with division.] The operation most frequently performed in the United States, is that of passing the needle of Adams, Scarpa, Saunders, or Hey, through the sclerotica, immediately behind the" iris, and then lacerating the capsule, or the lens itself, and per- muting the aqueous liumour to act upon it, either hy pressing the fragments of the lens througii the pupil into the interior chamber, or, where this is impracticable, leaving them in situ. One of the most successful operators in the United States, ii Dr. John Harper of B.-jhimore, and he seldom adopts any other operation than this, which he repeats, as often as necessary, on the same eye. In the case of a young lady, Dr, Reese performed It on both eyes at once, and to promote absorption gave her the blue pill ; in three weeks her vision was restored, although she had been blind twelve years. Depression seems to have but few advo- cates in the United States; nor is extraction often preferred there even for hard cataracts. (See Reese, in Amer. ed. of this Diet.) E.XTUACTION OF TliE CaTAR.-ICT. From some passages in the works of Rhazes, Hal}', and Avicenna, specified by Mr. Guthrie, it is sufficiently clear that the practice of opening the cornea for the removal of cataracts was not unknown to the ancients. Rhazes says that about the end of the first century, Antyllus opened the cornea, and drew the cataract out of the eye with a fine needle, in which practice he was fol- lowed by Lathyrion. However, while doubts were entertained respecting the true seat of the cataract, it is hardly to be supposed that this mode of treatment could have been frequently adopted ; but as soon as it was fully proved that the true cataract was an opacity of the crystalline lens; that the loss of sight would not be occasioned by the removal of this body; that the cornea might be divided without danger; and that the aqueous humour would be quickly regenerated; the mode of cure, hy extracting the cataract out of the eye, would naturally present itself. (Wcixel.) Freytag is perhaps the first in modem times who made an attempt to extract the cataract; this was about the close of the 17th century. After him, Lotterius of Turin performed the operation. But nobody has so strong a claim as M. Daviel to the honour of bringing the merits of the practice before the public; and he not onh- adopted it him- self, but published the first good description of it. (Siir une Nonvdle Mithode da guirir la Calaracle 2xir I'Exiraciion dii Cristallin, 1747. Also Me- moires de I'Acad. Royale de Cldrurgic, t. ii. 4to. 1753.) Two cases in which the cataract had ac- cidentally slipped through the pupil into the an- terior chamber, whence they were extracted in the years 1707 and 1708 by ilerj- and Petit, as related by St. Ives, seem to have had con- siderable influence in bringing about the regular performance of this method of removing the cata- ract; for they served as an encouragement to Daviel, by whom the practice was completely established. The operation was afterwards brought considerabl}' nearer to perfection by the ingenuity and industry of Wenzol. {liramhilla lustrumcnt- arium Chir. Aitstriacum, 1782, p. 71.) The extraction of the cataract may now be re- garded as brought to the highest state of improve- ment. It admits of division into three stages, the first of which, as in depression and reclination, is the most important; because, unless it be per- formed exactly as it ought to be, the operation would be very liable to foil, and it is exceedingly difficult to make amends for any fault committed in this early part of the proceedings. The first stage consists in making an cflectual opening in the cornea with a suitable knife. The second, in