GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 805 reached the hospital, he was in a dying state. {Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 464.) [Cannon-balls, and even bullets, sometimes pro- duce severe internal lesions without occasioning a breach of continuity in the integument. These in- juries before the time of Ambrose Pare' (who was the first to explain correctly the manner of their production) were termed wind contusions. The muscles, bones, or solid viscera may be bruised, broken, or crushed by these missiles, or hollow vis- cera may be ruptured without leaving any appear- ance of injury on the surface of the skin, sometimes not even discoloration.] Such cases were for a long while imputed to the violent motion supposed to be communicated to the air by the ball itself. It was imagined that this elastic fluid, being rapidly displaced by the shock of the projectile, was capable of making such pres- sure on surrounding bodies as to destroy their tex- ture. [Some experiments have been recently made by M. Pelikan to determine the influence which a cannon-ball produces on the surrounding atmo- sphere in its rapid flight through it. He had a machine constructed for measuring the force exerted by the wind of balls passing at various distances. At three inches from it, the passing ball produced not the slightest efi'ect; after repeated experiments the results attained were constantly the same. His conclusions are : 1. That a projectile passing very close to any object exercises only an insigni- ficant influence upon it. 2. That which is called the wind of a ball, even with a full charge of pow- der, has so trifling a force, as to be incapable of determining any lesion, even with pieces of large calibre.] The mischief, formerly imputed to the air, is occasioned by the ball itself. Its producing a violent contusion, without tearing the skin and entering the limb, is to be ascribed to the oblique direction in which it strikes the part, or, in other instances, to the feebleness with which the ball strikes the surface of the body, in consequence of its having lost the greater part of its momentum, and acting principally by its weight, being, in short, what is called a spent ball. Daily observation evinces that balls which strike a surface obliquely, do not penetrate, but are reflected, though they may be impelled with the greatest force, and the body struck may be as soft and yielding as water. This alteration in the course of the ball, not only happens on the surface of the human body, but also in the substance of a limb which it has entered. Thus a bone, a tendon, &c. may change the direction of a ball which touches them at all obliquely. Hence, the track of a gunshot wound is not always straight, and balls eoniotimes run under the integuments nearly all round the body or limb. A ball, when it strikes a part of the body, may cause several kinds of injury. 1. It may only occasion a contusion without penetrating the part, on account of its being too much spent, or of the oblique way in which it strikes the surface. 2. It may enter and lodge in the substance of a part; in which case the wound has onl}'one aperture. .1. It may pierce through and through ; and then there are two openings, one at the entrance, the other at the exit of the ball. At the entrance there is commonly more contusion and ccchymosis than at the exit of the ball. The former opening is gene- rally narrower; the latter wider and more irregular. especially when the ball has been flattened by its having struck a bone. The aperture made by the ball in the clothes is always much narrower than that occasioned in the corresponding integuments. 4. A cannon-ball, or large fragment of shell, may tear off a whole limb. As is observed by a most eminent practitioner, the effects of gunshot wounds depend very much upon the manner in which the gun has been loaded, and the distance at which it has been dis- charged. If a fowling-piece is merely loaded with powder, without any wad, and tired off very near the person who receives injury, the integuments are violently contused. But, if the same charge be rammed down, the effects will differ according to the degree of resistance and the distance of the wounded party. The following case occurred in the practice of Dupuytren. Two persons quarrelled; and one of them discharged a fowling-piece, loaded only with powder, at the abdomen of his adversary, who instantly fell dead. The mouth of the gun had been not more than a foot or two from hira. Dupuytren, having been juridically required to ascertain the cause of death, found the clothes torn, a hole in the parietes of the abdomen more than an inch in diameter, the intestine wounded, and the wad in the middle of the abdomen. Parties attempting suicide sometimes, in their confusion, forget to put the ball into the pistol. The explo- sion occasions a violent distension of the parietes of the mouth; and though the vertebral colunm is not injured, the soft palate is lacerated, and some- times the lov/er jaw fractured, {Dupuytren, in Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 419.) . The many accidents which occur in the shooting season, should lead every surgeon to remember that small shot acts in two ways : it either strikes in a mass, " il/ait balk" as the French term it, which depends upon the goodness of the fowling-piece and its nearness to the wounded person, or else it is scattered, and each shot hits separately. In the first case its effects are generally more formidable than those of a single bullet. (See Dupuytren, ib.) I lately visited, with Mr. Broxholin of Sunbury, a young man wlm, in taking a fowling-piece out of a cart, received its contents at the inner and upper part of the arm, the mouth of the gun being at the moment close to the limb. Theshots inamasspassed obliquely through it, on the outer side of the hu- merus, occasioning an opening at their entrance not more than an inch and a half in diameter, but one at their exit much larger, and of an irregular tri- angular shape. This case was not followed by any very severe consequences ; a circumstance to be ascribed partly to the patient's good constitution, and partly to the fortunate circumstances of the bone, as well as other important parts having escaped injury, and no foreign body having lodged in the part. The wound was, however, attended with more laceration than one caused by a single bullet would have been. Angular, uneven bodies, such as pieces of iron, hammered leaden bullets, cut lead, fragments of shells, &c., produce far more dangerous wounds than round smooth balls. Several persons were wounded at Pilris, in the late disturbances, by ir- regular pieces of balls, which had been broken by striking first against iron bars. (Clin. Chir. t ii p. 429.) In sieges, many severe injuries are produced by fragments of stones and brickwork being driven 3 F 3