ANEURISM. sensibility, and muscular powers of the limb were entirely re-established. In it, as in all limbs whose principal artery has been tied, the arteries did not pulsate, though blood circulated freely through them. This fluid in passing through nu- merous and minute anastomoses, from the upper to the lower portion of the limb, seemed to Du- puytren to be no longer within reach of the power of the heart. Between two and three years after the operation, an abscess formed in the axilla and burst. Dupuytren enlarged its opening, and a great deal of pus, blended with old coagula, was discharged. This was soon followed by a perfect cure. (See Leqons Orales de Cliniq. Chir. t. iv. p. 524—535.) The reasons assigned by Dupuy- tren for choosing this method of operating, appear to me not so good as one which, I believe, is the only valid ground for taking up the subclavian in the second part of its course, viz. the extension of the tumor too far inwards to admit of the ligature being applied at the point where the artery emerges from behind the anterior scalenus, close behind the tubercle of the first rib. This point can always be reached with facility, by tracing the outer edge of that muscle downwards, whatever may be the conformation of the neck or the height of the shoulder. The phrenic nerve, be it remembered, would also be considerably exposed to injury in Dupuytren's method, which therefore seems to me eligible only under the circumstances already specified. With respect to tying the subclavian artery on the tracheal side of the scalenus, I have stated that it was performed by Dr. Colles, and the event fatal. Descriptions of the operation may be found in Mr. Hodgson's work, p. 382. When I con- sider the manner in which the subclavian artery, before it passes behind the anterior scalenus, is surrounded by parts of great importance, I can scarcely bring my mind to think that the measures requisite for taking up the vessel in this situation will ever leave the patient much chance of re- covery. " Between the aorta and scaleni muscles (says Mr. A. Burns), the subclavian arteries are connected with several important vessels and nerves. They are in the vicinity of the nervus vagus, of the recurrent laryngeal nerve, of the sympathetic nerve, of the phrenic nerve, and the subclavian vein ; and, on the left side, the subcla- vian artery is intimately connected with the ter- mination of the thoracic duct. These parts are all grouped together in a very narrow space, and tlie perplexity of their dissection is further mcreased by the interlacement of the different nerves with one another. The natural connections of these parts are best shown by merely raising the external extremity of the sterno-mastoid muscle. If this be done, the nervus vagus will be brought into view, lying on the forepart of the subclavian artery, almost directly behind the sternal end of the clavicle; and exactly opposite to the nervus vagus, but behind the artery, the \o\v&v cervical ganglion of the sympathetic nerve will be brought into view. The recurrent nerve, on the right side, hooks round the subclavian arterj', and, in its course towards the larynx, ascends along the tracheal side of the sympathetic nerve. On the left side, it twines round the arch of the aorta, and, in mounting upward, is interposed between the subclavian artery and (Esophagus. The sub- clavian vein lies anterior to the nrtoiy, and, in the collapsed state, sinks nearer to the thorax;" but, when distended in the living body, it overlaps the arterj'. The thoracic duct enters the subclavian vein about the eighth of an inch nearer to the acromion than the point where the internal jugular vein empties itself into the subclavian vein. The termination of the thoracic duct is situated between the sternal and clavicular portions of the sterno- mastoid muscle. {A. Burns, On the Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, p. 28.) [The subclavian has been ligatured on the tracheal side of the scalenus in seven cases, and all have proved fatal. In six from hemorrhage, and in one from diffuse inflammation within the chest. The accompanying table includes all the cases in which this operation has been performed. Surgeon. Sex. A.QE. Date of Death. Cause of Death. Colles. m. 33 4th dav. Hemorrhage. MOTT. f. 21 18 th „' Hayden. f. 57 12 th „ O'Reilly. ra. 39 13th „ Partridge, m. 38 4th „ Pericarditis and pleurisy. LiSTON. m. 13th „ Hemorrhage. LiSTON. m. 36th „ The great danger in these cases is from hemor- rhage, depending as this does on the anatomical relations and connections of the artery, which no skill on the part of the operator can in any way lessen. This operation ought, in my opinion, to be banished from surgical practice.] Axillary aneurisms are sometimes attended with fluctuation, in consequence of the blood becoming effused in the cellular tissue, and the pulsation in the deeper part of the swelling is then con- cealed. In such a case, Dupuytren once suspected the disease to be a chronic abscess, and made an exploratory puncture into the swelling; but a gush of blood made him promptly withdraw the knife and close the wound. The puncture healed up. Dupuytren wished to have tied the subclavian ar- tery, but he was opposed by one of his colleagues; and, in the end, a point of the skin sloughed, he- morrhage took place, and the patient died. (C/m. Chir. t. iv. p. 620.) A case, in which an axillary aneurism, unat- tended with pulsation, was punctured, and the child bled to death, is recorded. (See Med. Chr. Journ. vol. iv. p. 78.) . Mr. Guthrie observes, whenever an aneurismal tumor in the neck is accompanied by an alter, ation of the sterno-clavicular articulation, the case is clearly unfit for any operation, except that sug- gested by Brasdor, even if any operation at ail be admissible. (See Guthrie, On the Arierws, p. 39/.) The same, he adds, may be said of any case of aneurismal swelling, either interna or external to that articulation, in which the stethoscope, applied on the sternum in the course of the artena innomi- nata, or the arch of the aorta, indicates disease. A swelling at the root of the carotid is more likely to be an aneurism of the arch of innominata, than of the carotid itself, and the ste thoscope will remove all doubt. In one case ot subclavian aneurism, where the tumor left no room