AORTA. T 3 Umd, Tmiie des Mai. du Coeur et des Gros Vais- seati.v ; Reynaud, in Jouni. Hebdom. de Med. t. i. &c.) Gangirena senilis is sometimes connected with disease nnj morbid deposits within the aorta. (See Curswctl's IllustnUions of lU Elem. Forms 0/ Dis. fasc. 7, pi. 3, fig. 2.) See Mortification. Obliteration of the Cavity op the Aorta. It is observed by Professor Scarpa, that the whole body may be regarded as an anastomosis of vessels, a vascular circle ; and he contends that this remark is so true, that even an obliteration of the aorta itself, immediately below its arch, may take place, without the general circulation of the blood in the body being stopped. Such a disease of the aorta was seen by M. Paris in the body of a woman. While she lived, the blood, which was expelled from the heart, was tiansmitted into the trunk of the aorta, below the constriction ; and it got there by passing, through the subclavian, axil Jary, and cervical arteries, into the mammary intercostal, diaphragmatic, and epigastric arteries. From these latter arteries, the blood passed into the vessels of the thoracic and abdominal visceia, and into those of the lower extremities. (See De'saidt Journal, t. ii. p. 107; Brasdor, in Rectieil Phil diqm de la Soc. de Med. t. iii. No. 18.) Another instance of complete obstruction of the aorta was met with by Monro. (See Obs. on Anew, oj Aorta, p. 5.) Dr. Graham, of Glasgow, published another example, in which the aorta was com- pletely obstructed just below the canalis arteriosus. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. v. p. 287.) Dr. Goodison, of Wicklow, 'in examining the dead body of a woman, in the Hospice de la Pitie' at Paris, and endeavouring to trace the origin of the inferior mesenteric artery, discovered a hard tumor placed upon the aorta, and accompanied with an obliteration of that vessel from the origin of the inferior mesenteric artery downwards the reraamder of its length ; the left iliac being also rendered impervious down to its bifurcation, and the right for more than one half of its length. The corpora sesamoida of the semilunar valves of the aorta were considerably enlarged, and the mitral and tricuspid valves presented the appearances termed by Corvisart " vegetations." The arch of the aorta was greatly enlarged, and internally was studded with patches of bone. The vessels given off from the aorta, and especially the lumbar arteries, were all noticed to be considerably in- creased in size. At the obliterated part of the abdominal aorta, there was a firm bony sheath covering the vessel for about two inches, and filled with a hard fleshy substance, which extended fur- ther upwards, and was firmly adherent to the coat of the artery. It was the inner coat itself which was ossified. For a particular account of the vessels which were chiefly enlarged for the pur- pose of continuing the circulation, I must refer to Dr. Goodison 8 description. The general appear- ance of the body was not unhealthy ; and the lower extremities, which were not emaciated, must have been well supplied with blood. The history of the case could not be traced. Mr. Crampton, having carefully compared Dr. Ooodison's nar- rative with the preparation taken from this siilijcct, refers the obliteration of the aorta to the effects of the process by which an aneurism had been spon- taneously cured ; in which particular, this case is quite different from those reported hy M Paris and Dr. Graham. (See Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. II. p. 193, &c. 8vo. 1813.) The foregoing cases proved that the obliteration of the canal of the aorta, at any one part, is not incompatible with the continuance of life ; and suggested the possibility of the application of a ligature to it being the means of sometimes saving the patient from the doom of certain death. The next case which I shall notice, is one of the most memorable in the annals of surgery, since it was nothing less than an operation in which a ligature was applied, for the first time, to the aorta ot a living subject, under circumstances which, at a time when the successful repetition of Brasdor's operation had not been made (see Wardrop, On A7ieurism, 182&), perhaps warranted even this desperate attempt to preserve life. Sir Astley Cooper had often placed ligatures round the aorta in dogs, and found that the blood was readily car- ried by the anastomoses to their posterior extremi- ties (see Med. Chir. Trans, vol. ii. p. 158) ; and he came to the Goiiclusion, that if the aortic plexus be tied with the artery, the lower extremities are rendered paralytic, and the animal ultimately dies • but if care be taken to include only the vessel' m the ligature, these consequences do not take place. (See La7icet, vol. ii. p. 47.) A porter, aged thirty-eight, was admitted into Guy 3 Hospital, April 9, 1817, fo, an aneurism in the left groin, situated partly above, and partly below Poupart's ligament. The swelling was con- siderably diffused, and pressure upon it gave a great deal of pain. On the third day from his entrance into the hospital, the tumor increased to double Its former size, and the pulsation became less distinct. The blood could be felt in a fluid state within the sac, which was so large that no operation was practicable without opening the pe- ritoneum Sir Astley Cooper therefore waited, in order to let the man have a chance of a sponta neous cure. Notwithstanding the practice of venesection and compression, the swelling con- tinued to increase, and on the 20th of June a bleeding took place from a point of the tumor where a slough had formed. The bleeding re- curred from time to time ; and on the 25th he was so much exhausted by loss of blood that his fajces passed involuntarily, and his immediate death was only prevented by pressure on the opening At nine o clock m the evening, this e.vperienced surgeon made a small incision ii^o the sac above D .,1- uie sac anove Pouparts ligament, and introducing his finger ried 1 It were practicable to pass a ligature round he external iliac artery within the cavity ; but be per'ceiv d^ \fT ^'"'"''^ '""''I oe perceived. At the moment of withdrawiuLr tho he'^le'and'tf "'^ ■"'"P^'^^^^^ ^^^^ tsTot 'li?closed w'ith a "i. oir A. Cooper now determ nod tn apply a ligature to the norta'itself. "I n Sus he) an incision, three inches long, intoX a ba, giving It a slight cm-ve to avoid the u ibilie is Sri'i;):''^'^^ theremalS U a probe-pointed bistoury, enlarged'the „ "igm the peritoneum to nearly the same evto f as that of the external wound. NeithorThe omen!