^^■2 HERNIA, noticed: after the removal of the peritoneum from the abdominal muscles, and from the psoas, iliacus internus, and the great vessels, the inner surface of the transversalis still has an investment, which Sir Astley Cooper first described and named fasoia transversalis, and which is always a white glistening aponeurosis. From the place where the femoral artery lies under Poupart's ligament, to the ante- rior superior spine of the ilium, the preceding fascia is extended in a strong fibrous form behind the inner surface of Poupart's ligament, and a strong continuation of it is extended over the iliacus in- ternus and psoas muscles, where it is called by Sir A. Cooper and Cloquet, the fascia iliaca. In this situation the fascia of the transverse muscle closes .the belly behind Poupart's ligament as completely as the peritoneum does, so that between the femoral artery and the anterior superior spine of the ilium none of the bowels can protrude, which occurrence is still farther prevented by the fascia lata, which, below Poupart's ligament, is closely attached to the muscles of the thigh. By the pelvis being thus shut up, the origin of a crural hernia on the outside of the femoral vessels is rendered quite impossible. (See Lan- genheclc, Neue Bibl. b. ii. p. 112, &c.) This part of the explanation very nearly resembles that delivered by Sir A. Cooper, except that the latter describes the iliac fascia, and not what Cloquet calls the transverse fascia, as closing the pelvis from the spine of the ilium to the crural vessels. But this difference is easily accounted for, by the cir- cumstance of Sir A. Cooper extending the name fascia iliaca beyond the limits given it by Cloquet and Langenbeck. " From that part of the crural arch extending from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, to the outer edge of the external iliac artery (says Sir Astley Cooper) a strong fascia will be found to arise, extending upwards over the iliacus and psoas muscles. It may be traced inwards be- hind the femoral vessels, as far as the linea ileo- pectinea, being attached at that line to the liga- ment of the pubes, and to the tendon of the psoas parvus, when that muscle is present. This fascia has been particularly described by Gimbernat, and should be called fascia iliaca. If the fascia iliaca be carefully traced, it will be found to arise from the outer half of the crural arch, in conjunction with the outer portion of the fascia transversalis; the latter ascending before the peritoneum, wliile the former passes up behind that membrane ; tliey unite at the outer side of the transversalis muscle, and appear as one continuous production. By the union of these two fasciae at Poupart's lig.inient, and their separation to enclose the viscera, the con- tents of the abdomen are thus received into a blind funiiel, and are prevented descending on the outer side of the iliac vessels. If the latter vessels be raised, the fascia iliaca will be seen descending be- hind them, as far down the thigli as the origin of the profunda, thus forming the posterior part of the sheath. Thus a sheath is formed, enveloping the femoral artery, vein, and absorbent vessels, ante- riorly by the descent of the fascia tranvcrsalis, posteriorly by a similar process from the fascia Iliaca ; and by the union of these at the inner and Back part of the sheath, the bag is rendered com- plete At the upper part the slioatli is broad, but, the fpt'""? """"^ closely applied to the femoral vem and artery, giving it the appeai-- ance of a funnel. It is at the upper and inner part of this funnel, that the absorbent vessels enter the sheath, giving it, as has been already remarked a cribriform appearance. This part of the sheath IS much looser in its texture than the portion in- vesting the artery and vein which is firm and un- yielding on the fore part of the sheath, where the latter is united to Poupart's ligament. " If the sheath be opened, the contents will be found separated by two membranous septa; one passing between the artery and vein, and a se- cond, equally distinct, between the vein and the absorbents. The septum is formed by a process from the fascia tranversalis passing backwards to attach itself to the fascia iliaca." Sir Astley Cooper then proceeds to explain, that the artery and vein completely fill up the space in the sheath allotted to them, while the absorbents are loosely connected. (See Sir A. Cooper, On Hernia, p. 10, part i. ed. 2.) Near the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, Langenbeck remarks, that the fascia of the transverse muscle has some strong fibres, which proceed inwards under the internal opening of the inguinal canal, of which they form, as it were, the bottom, and are named by Hesselbach, the internal inguinal ligament. They go over the femoral artery and vein, are connected above with the fascia of the transverse muscle, and below are continued into the fascia of the psoas and iliac muscles. Where these fibres pass over the femo- ral vessels, they expand into a firm aponeurosis, which, passing downwards, is intimately attached at the inner side of the femoral vein to the horizon- tal branch of the os pubis, close to the symphysis, and then joins the aponeurosis of the recti muscles. The expanded portion of the foregoing tendinous fibres, thus continued along the crista (pecten) of the OS pubis to the sheath of the rectus, forms the inner surface of Gimhei-nafs, or the femoral or c^-ural ligament. The outer edge of this ligament is fal- ciform and concave, the concavity being turned towards the femoral vein. Now where the fascia of the transverse muscle extends downwards, on the outer side of the crural arteiy, to the fascia of the psoas and iliac muscles, so as to close the pelvis between that vessel and the anterior supe- rior spinous process of the ilium, it also forms, like Gimbernat's ligament, a falciform edge, the con- cavity of which lies close over the external con- vexity of the crural arterj'. Thus, partly by the concave edge of Gimbemat's ligament, directed towards the crural vein, and partly by the concave edge of the extension of the fascia of the transverse muscle to the fascia iliaca, which edge is turned towards the crural artery, an aperture is produced, through which the femoral vessels pass out of the pelvis. This opening is named by Cloquet the upper opening of the crural canal, or, as many English surgeons would say, of the crural or femoral ring. By Hesselbach, it is called the iniernal opening for tJw femoral vessels. How- ever, as these vessels do not lie loosely and uncon- nectedly in this aperture, the opening itself is shut up as it were, and cannot be seen without dissection. On the above described fascia;, there is a con- siderable quantity of cellular tissue which covers the vessels in the pelvis, forms a sort of sheath for the crural artery and vein, and accompanies these vessels through the inner opening of the ciur.nl canal, or ring, which is itself accurately shut up