HERNIA. of the optic nerves, concluded that the disorder might depend upon injury of one of the thalarai, occasioning insensibility of the right or left halves of the retina.', according to tlie nervous filaments implicated. (See Phil. Trans, for 1824, p. 224.) Dr. Mackenzie, however, in reasoning on Dr. Wollaston's theory, thinks that by far the greater mass of facts in pathological anatomy, touching this question, go to prove, that injuries and diseases affecting one side of the brain, instead of hemiopia in both eyes, produce amaurosis only in the op- posite eye. (Vide Machenxie on Dis. oj tlie Eye, ed. 4, p. 1001, where other arguments against the li3T)othesi3 of Dr. Wollaston may also be met with.) 041 HERNIA (from epvos, a branch, from Its pro- trading forward). A protrusion of any viscus from its proper cavity is called a hernia; and the term, of course, comprises that very frequent case in which a tumor is formed by the protrusion of some of the viscera of the abdomen out of that cavity into a kind of sac composed of a portion of perito- neum which ia pushed before them. With respect to abdominal hernias, however, some cases will not be embraced by this definition, either because the parts are not protruded at all, or because they have no hernial sac. Yet it is only in rare cases that the sac is wanting; as, for example, when the hernia has been produced by the operation of great vio- lence, or has been preceded by a wound of the abdo- minal parietes. A hernial sac is sometimes burst by a blow. " When this happens (as Sir Astley Cooper has observed) its contents escape out of the sac, and become placed under tlie contiguous skin, 80 that the viscera require to be returned into the sac before they can pass into the abdomen." He .attended a case of inguinal hernia in which these circumstances were exemplified. (^On Abdo- minal Hernia, ed. 2. by C. Asloji Key, part i.) Some viscera, which occasionally protrude, are not entirely surrounded by the peritoneum, as the blad- der and Ccecum; under these circumstances, when the viscera are considerably displaced, and if the parts destitute of peritoneal covering present them- selves at any of the natural outlets and protrude, a hernia without a sac will result. These hernite with- out a sac, if they continue to protrude, draw after them the portion of peritoneum connected with them, which forms a sac into which other bowels may fall, so that the surgeon when operating may first come upon the bowel without opening a hernial sac, then higher up he may find a sac containing other viscera. Lastly, there may be no sac, when a hernia arises from malformation of the muscles, attended witli abdominal openings in them ; for these are not always closed by peritoneum. (Sir Astley Cooper, op. cit.) " The brilliant progress which surgery has made in modern times (says Scarpa) is, properly speak- ing, only the result of pathological anatomy; that is to say, of exact comparisons of the natural state of our organs with their different diseases, which may depend upon an alteration of tcxttno, a de- rangement of functions, a solution of continuity, or .1 change of situation. " There are, indeed, a certain number of surgi- cal operations, for the prompt and safe execution of ■which mere anatomical knowledge will sufiice; but, in many others, the surgeon cannot promise himself success, even though he be well acquainted with anatomy, unless he haa 'particularly studied the numerous changes of position and alterations of texture of which the parts upon which he is about to operate are susceptible. If he has not the re- quisite information upon all these points, false ap- pearances may deceive his judgment, and make him commit mistakes, sometimes of a very serious and irreparable kind. " In order to havea convincing proof ofthis truth, it will be sufiicient to take a view of the diflferent species of hernice, and their numerous complications. Assuredly, no anatomist would believe that the caecum, naturally fixed in the right iliac fossa, and the urinary bladder, situated at the bot- tom of the pelvis, could undergo, without being torn, so considerable a displacement as to protrude through the abdominal ring, and descend even into the scrotum; that the same intestine, the caecum, could pass from the right iliac region to the umbili- cus, protrude at this opening, and form an um- bilical hernia; that the right colon could have been found protruded from the abdomen at the left abdo- minal ring, and the left colon through the right one; that the liver, spleen, and ovary could some- times form the contents of umbilical, inguinal, and femoral hemiffi; that the ctecum could engage itself within the colon, and even protrude at the anus ; that the stomach could be forced through the diaphragm, and form a hernia within the chest; that the omentum, or intestine, or both these parts together, could sometimes escape from the belly through the foramen ovale, or sacro-ischiatic notch of the pelvis." (See-Scaj-pa, Traiti des Hernies, Frif.) The parts of the body where herniEe most fre- quently make their appearance, are the groin, the scrotum, the labia pudendi, the navel, and the upper and fore part of the thigh : they may occur at any point of the anterior part of the abdomen; and, in less common instances, at the foramen ovale,' in the perinaum, in the vagina, at the ischiatic notch, &c. The parts which, by being thrust forth from the cavity in which they ought naturally to remain, mostly produce hernia, are either a portion of the omentum, or a part of the intestinal canal, or both together. But the stomach, the liver, spleen, ute- rus, ovaries, bladder, &c. have been known to form the contents of some hernial tumors. Indeed as Sir Astley Cooper remarks, there is no part of the abdomen at which a hernia may not occur, except- ing where it is bounded by bone; and, if the muscles be imperfectly formed, even tlie kidney may protrude in the loins. The small intestine is more frequently protruded than the large, and the ileum more frequently than the jejunum, in conse- quence of its greater proximity to the ring and crural arch. A part only of the diameter of the tube is sometimes included in a hernia : any larger quantity may descend, Irom a single fold to the whole movable portion of the canal. (See Law- rence, On Ruptures, p. 5, cd. 4.) The viscera more frequently met with than any others, in a hernia lire the omentum and the ileum; the next in fre- quency is the colon; then the ca;cum; and, lastly the jejunum. Sometimes the appendix cajci is the' only part found in the hernial sac, (Sir Astley Cooper on Abdominal Hernia, ed. 2.) A hernia is referred to by Mr. Crosse, which consisted solely of the appendix vermiformis; this was enlarged to four times its natural size, and produced most of the usual symptoms of strangulation, so that the