HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. strong mercurial ointment. The mischief was speedily and eiTectually arrested by these moans. The convulsions which had come on in paroxysms did not return after the bleeding. The left arm and leg remained totally powerless for forty-eight hours, and he recovered slowly but completely." Mr. Guthrie says, in summing up his observa tions on the subject of compound fracture of the skull with depression: " The result of my experi ence. has rendered it imperative in ray mind to remove at once all portions of bone or foreign sub- stances which may have, or may be supposed to have, penetrated the dura mater in adults, although no symptoms of compression should be observed; and generally in children, whenever it can be done without difficult}', and especially when,symptoms of compression are present. If the wound in the dura mater should not be sufficiently large to clllow the offending body to be extracted through it, the opening must be increased to enable it to be withdrawn witliout further laceration; and all sub- stances which are irritating, or are likely to irri- tate, the brain, should be removed in the [first instance, unless the attempt should be forbidden by the occurrence of convulsions, by the inability of the surgeon to seize the extraneous body, or by the evidence of great suffering which it occasions." And Baron Larrey thus expresses his opinion upon the same subject: "On ne doit non plus appliquer le trepan a I'occasion des plaies de tSte avec fracture des os du crane, quellesque soient Tetendue de la fracture et la multiplicite des rayons qui en partent, si des pieces osseuses ne sont pas enfoncees et s'il n'y a ni corps e'tranger ni symptomes de compression bien evidens." In compound fracture, where the inner table is alone depressed, if the case can be acciu'ately made out, the trephine should be employed, although there be no symptoms of pressure, and the reason for its adoption arises from the irritation of the brain and its membranes which must almost inevitably result from such an injury. On this subject we prefer quoting the observations of Mr. Guthrie, who has entered fully into tlie subject. He says : " The establishment of principles \vihich ought to regulate the practice of surgery in cases of fracture and depression of the inner table of the skull is of the greatest importance, and it is on this account that I have quoted so many authorities on the subject. The principle being laid down that it is right and proper to examine all such wounds with a blunt flat probe, in order to ascer- tain, if possible, whether tlie inner table is de- pressed and broken, the question necessarily arises, what is to be done when such depression and breaking down of the inner table is ascertained to have taken place ? There can be no hesitation in answering that in all such cases the trephine should be applied, although no symptoms should exist, witli a view of anticipating them. The old doc- trine, it may be said, in regard to fractures gene- rally, is revived in these cases, but on a principle Willi which our predecessors were not acquainted. A patient very often survives a mere depression of tiie skull: he may, and occasionally does survive a greater depression of the inner than of the outer table, but I do not believe that lie ever does sur- vive and remain in tolerable health after a depres- sion with fracture of the inner table, when portions ol It have been driven into the dura mater. If cases could be advancL-d of complete recovery after such injuries, T should not consider them as superseding the practice recommended, unless they were bo nu- merous as to establish the fact that wounds of the dura mater and brain by pieces of bone are not ex- tremely dangerous. If one trephine will suffice, the central point being applied close to the edge of the middle of the wound in the bone, it should be applied there; but if the cut be longer, and the spicula of bone extend upwards and downwards in its length, a small trephine should be applied as near each end as may be judged advisable, and one edge of the cut bone removed by the straight saw. By these means sufficient room will be ob- tained to remove the broken portions of bone which are irritating the dura mater and brain. I am sa- tisfied that the danger resulting from the application of the trephine in such cases, bears no proportion to the risk incm-red by leaving the broken portions of bone as a constant cause of irritation." (Guthrie, op. cit. p. 93).] Concussion op the Brain. [In the consideration of injuries of the brain, as concussion, compression, contusion, and laceration, it is important to bear in mind the extreme delicacy of the cerebral tissue and the peculiarity of the ce- rebral circulation, as well as the general sympathy which exists between this organ and the other parts of the body through the medium of the cere- bro-spinal system of nerves. In describing the symptoms of concussion and compression it will be found that the outlines of these diseases are so in- distinctly marked, and the shades of each are so imperceptibly blended, that it is frequently quite impossible, eyen with the most careful examination, to come to an accurate conclusion as to the precise nature of the case. This point will be further dis- cussed when we consider the i>athology of concus- sion, a subject of extreme interest. The most simple form of cerebral injury, resulting from the di- rect or indirect application of violence to the skull, is concussion or commotion, and a patient is said to be stunned who labours under this affection in its mildest form. Concussion is commonly indicated by the following symptoms :—The patient is at once deprived of sense and the power of motion. This sudden loss of sensibility is frequently pai-tial, oc- casionally complete; it often lasts but for a short time, although it may endure for an indefinite period ; generally in simple cases a slight degree of sensibility soon returns, and the patient, if a question is loudly asked, replies briefly and in- distinctly and abruptly. So also the power of motion is either totally annihilated or to a great extent enfeebled ; yet volition frequent!}' speedily returns, and the patient staggers like a drunken man, or if placed in bed he exerts a certjiin amount of volition and carefully folds himself in the bed- clothes, as if aifected by cold and disposed to sleep. The pulse is weak, but regular, and generally in- creased in frequency ; the temperature of the skin sinks below the natural standard, the breathing is regular and quite tranquil, and performed with scarcely any apparent movement of the parietcs of the chest. The eyelids are closed and the p"- pils sometimes dilated, more commonly contr.acted. Frequently at the onset a general but feebly con- vulsive movement is felt in all the voluntary mus- cles. This is indicated by shuddering or n slight degree of shivering us if from the effects of cola;