''^^ FRACTURE, allowed to make free use of his limb as Boon as the fracture has united. In fractures of the lower extremity he ought to use crutches, and only let the weight of the trunk by degrees bear upon the injured limb. From neglect of this precaution the callus has been known to be absorbed, the limb to be shortened, and the patient become a cripple. An accidental slip may also produce the fracture again; for the provisional callus, so far from being firmer than the rest of the bone, is at first considerably weaker. That the state of the constitution has vast influence over the process by which broken bones are reunited, is unquestionable. Schmucker found the formation of callus, even in the most simple fractures, sometimes delayed eight months, and in one example, more than a year; but all the patients were unhealthy. (VermiscAte Chir Solirifien, b. i, p. 26.) _ There are certain indescribable constitutions, in which bones, particularly the humerus, will not unite again after being broken. These temper- aments are also exceedingly various; at least, I infer so from two subjects, to whom I paid particular attention. One was a strong robust man, whose chief peculiarity seemed to be his indifference to pain : the ends of his broken humerus were cut down to, turned out, and sawn off by Mr. Long, m St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and the limb was afterwards put in splints, and taken the greatest care of; but no union followed. The other case was a broken tibia and fibula, which remained disunited for about four months, but afterwards grew together. The latter subject was a complete instance of hypochondriasis. I afterwards saw a woman, under Sir James Earle, in the above hos- pital, whose humerus did not unite, though it had been broken several months. Every attempt to move the bone occasioned excruciating torture. The woman died of some illness in the hospital, and on dissecting the arm, the cause of the frac- ture not having united was found to arise from the upper sharp-pointed extremity of the lower portion of the broken bone having been forcibly drawn up by the muscles, and penetrated the sub- stance of the biceps, in which it still remained. 1 am indebted to Mr. Earle for the description of the appearance in the dissection, and I do not know that this kind of impediment to the union of a fracture has been noticed by any earlier writer than Mr. Charles White, who appears to have conceived the possibility of the occurrence. {Cases in Surgery, p. 70, edit. 1770.) Sir Benjamin Brodie attributes the want of union mostly to the state of the constitution. " A gentleman (says he), was growing fat, and not liking to do so, he placed himself on a very spare diet, though accustomed to good living previously. After six months of starvation, he broke his arm, and the bone would not unite. I saw him many months afterwards, and there was scarcely any union even by soft substance. Another patient, about whom I was consulted, a lady, was growing lat, and thought slie would also prevent it by pur- suing a similar system of diet. Some months atterwaids she broke her arm, and union did not t.>l<e place. A man broke his thigh and ro- mamed ton days without any action of the bowels : tLn":"","^ the fracture ensued. The same die- ungu shed surgeon adverts to other facts, which tcna to prove, that tiglit bandaging and other cir- cumstances, unfavourable to a free circulation in the limb, may prevent union. (See Lond Med Gaz. for 1833-34, p. 57.) It is observed by Larrey that the gmishot wounds of the extremities, complicated with frac- ture especially with that of the humerus, received by the soldiers of the French army in Syria, were almost aU followed by the formation of accidental joints. The two fragments of the broken bone contmued moveable, their asperities and projecting angles havmg been destroyed by friction, and their ends being rounded and covered with a cartila- ginous substance, so as to facilitate the motions which the patients executed in various directions, in an imperfect manner and without pain. Lar- rey acquaints us that many invalids were sent back to France with such infirmity, "I ascribe," he says, "the causes of these accidental articulations: "1. To the continual motion, to which the wounded soldiers were exposed after their de- ■ parture from Syria till their arrival in Egypt, in consequence of their having ,been obliged either to walk this journey on foot, or to be carried on beasts. " 2. To the bad quality of the food, and the bracldsh water, which the men were under the necessity of drmking in this painful journey. " 3. To the state of the atmosphere of Syria, almost entirely destitute of vital air, and im- pregnated with pernicious gases, issuing from the numerous marshes, near which we were a Ion" while stationed. ° "All these causes may have prevented the formation of callus, either by diminishing the quantity of the phosphate of lime, or moving the bones out of that state of coaptation in which they should constantly lie in order to unite. " Bandages, embrocations, rest, and regimen proved quite ineffectual." {Larrey, Menu de Cldr. Mil. t. ii. p. 131, 182. Langenbeck, N. Bibl. i. p. 81.) The presence of an ulcer, a sinus, loose splmters of bone, a necrosis, or other suppurating disease, near a fracture, is a circumstance that often se- riously retards or completely prevents the for- mation of callus. How frequently have I noticed in compound fractures, that, while the wound suppurates largely, and while there are spicula and dead portions of bone unextracted, no solid union takes place ; but that as soon as the wound, ulcer, or sinus admits of being healed and the suppuration ceases, ossification goes on m the most favourable manner. _With respect to the union of broken bones being prevented by disease, Sir Benjamin Brodie believes that this may be the case where there is an abscess in the bone, a necrosis, or some other conditions. " I know, however," he observes, " that the rule is not absolute; for, in a great many instances, where the bone is diseased, it will unite perfectly. I had a patient, who had disease of the bones, whether it arose from syphilis, mer- cury, or a cachectic state of the constitution, I cannot sa}'; however, some of the bones had nodes upon them, and were very much enlarged. Tiie principal enlargement was in one of the cla- vicles. There was a portion of this bone en- larged, and much diseased besides. This man, in using his arm, broke the collar-bone, the fracture going tlirougli the diseased part. I bound up his