ERYSIPELAS, patient, and the period of the complaint. "When the affection occurs in old and debilitated subjects, the powers of life are soon seriously impaired, and our efforts must be directed rather towards sup- porting them, than combating the local affection. I have often seen such subjects, labouring under erysipelas of the face in its advanced stage, with rapid and feeble pulse, dry and brown tongue, re- covered, under circumstances apparently desperate, by the free use of bark and wine." The same writer deems local bleeding sufficient in the milder cases of erysipelas, and often necessary in the more severe ones, as an auxiliary measure. Cupping, when practicable, he sets down as more efficacious than leeches, though objectionable on account of the painful state of the skin. Leeches, he remarks, ■when applied to the sound skin of some individuals produce an effect analogous to erysipelas, but they exert no such influence over the inflamed skin, to ■which they may be applied freely and safely. In order to produce any decided benefit, he thinks they should be applied in large numbers. Mr. Lawrence adds, that after the inflammation has been checked, the surgeon should not be in too great a hurry to prescribe tonics, stimulants, and a full diet. "Medical practitioners in general (says Mr. Lawrence) are anxious to begin the strengthen- ing plan ; they seem to have the fear of debility con- stantly before their eyes, and lose no time in directing the employment of bark, and recommending animal food, with beer or wine. In this way relapses are frequently produced ; the inflammation and fever are renewed ; further local mischief is. caused, and re- covery is retarded." When it is doubtful whether stimuli should be employed or not, he deems sub- carbonate of ammonia the best medicine. Bark coraesnext in order to it, and the sulphate of quinine is the most eligible preparation. Wine is sometimes necessary ; but Mr. Lawrence thinks it should be given sparingly. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiv.) [The reviser of this article thinks it right to repeat these portions of the former edition, inas much as thej' contain the materials for a history of opinion and practice in medicine. But it is necessary to add, that the illustrious surgeon re ferred to does not now hold the antiphlogistic doctrine here described. Not indeed that he is likely ever to have bled, where bark and wine ought to have been given; but in an interview with which he favoured the reviser, he stated as liis pre- sent opinion that treatment should, as a general rule, be decidedly tonic and supporting. The full force of the antiphlogistic treatment, employed, as it vifas at a time when all humoral pa- thology was in abeyance, and inflammation and in- creased action were the popular bugbears, is exhi- bited in the series of cases which we have abridged from Dr. Butter. How remarkable it seems that patient after patient should have been submitted to exactly the same treatment : bleeding as long as blood would flow ; purgation till blood passed from the irritated bowels ; and wine only when subsultus tendinum announced the near approach of death. For example, in Case 5, after leeches, cathartics, tartar emetic, and bleeding; here is an extract. "Eight o'clock, P.M. Fever again increasing ; ery- ' sipelas extended even to the knee ; the integuments over the tibia looked mottled or variegated, like the colours of a rainbow ; red lines and patches were also seen to run up the limb to the groin. 639 Tension very great. Delirium. Vcnsesectio ad 3 xvi. Ten o'clock, p.m. Not relieved ; headache most severe. Rep. V. S. ad 5 xxiv." It must be remarked, tliat Dr. Butter, throughout his work, shows the most advanced and sound views, and re- pudiates all this cruel practice, of which he shows the bad results.] In bilious erysipelas, or that originating with strongly marked gastric disorder, Desault gave, in the first instance, a grain of tartarised antimony dissolved in a considerable quantity of fluid. He had seen the symptoms entirely subside, although the medicine produced no other sensible alteration in the animal economy than an increase of the insensible perspiration and urine. When the symptoms resisted these evacuations, he was obliged to have recourse once or twice, or even more frequently, to the emetic mixture. When the erysipelas was cured, and the bitterness in the mouth and fever had subsided, two or three purges of cassia and manna, with a grain of emetic tartar, were exhibited. As soon as the symptoms were mitigated, the diet of the patient was allowed to be more generous. In bilious er}-sipelas, Desault observed, that the cases of the patients who had been bled previously to their admission into the hospital, were invariably the most obstinate. When the tongue, without being red at its point and margins, was furred, and marks of gastric disorder prevailed, unattended with ten- derness of the epigastrium, Dupuytren found emetics useful. {Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 320.) In cases of Inlious erysipelas, many modern practitioners, says Mr. S. Cooper, would be bolder with antiraonials than Desault, first, by imitating Richter, and giving an emetic at the commence- ment of the attack, and then by exhibiting more freely either antimonial powder, or tartarised antimony, with a dose or two of calomel. In pMegmonoics erysipelas, Desault was an advocate for bleeding in the beginning of the disorder, and this practice he followed up by the administration of tartarised antimony and evacuants. In the beginning of phlegmonous erysipelas, Dupuytren likewise had recoMse to general and local bleeding, emollient applications,'or, what he considered still more efficacious, cold sedative lotions. If inflammation of the cellular texture had_ begun, he not only practised these antiphlo- gistic measures, but repeated them. But if there was a narrow wound, seemingly attended with strangulation of the parts, he made a simple or crucial incision without delaj'. (See Clin Chir t. ii. p. 320.) [But side by side with the extreme antiphlo- gistic school of the last century there was one which saw in erysipelas and its allies the charac- ters of putridity or malignity only, and which repudiated evacuants, and employed tonics and antiseptics.] Dr. George Fordyco declared that he always found bleeding and evacuations hurt- ful, and Peruvian bark the best remedy. It should be exhibited (he says) in substance, if the patient's stomach will bear it, and in this disease it will almost always bear it, and in IS great a quantity as the patient's stomach will bear, which is commonly to the quantity of a drachm every hour !" (Trans, of a Society for the Improvement of Chir. Kttoivkdye, vol. i, p'. 293.)