HEMERALOPIA sion of the brain at the seat of injury, by which the disposition to fungate would be obviated; and he suggests a similar mode of treatment after the protrusion of the tumor. He says, " II suit de la que la meilleure maniere de pre'venir ou de faire disparaitre iin pareil accident, n'est pas d'exciser Texube'rance ce're'brale h mesure qu'elle fait saillie, ni de la comprimer; mais bien de chercher a ob- tenir une ouverture plus grande que moindre, et de combattre I'irritation ou I'afflux des liquides dans le crane par tons les moyens possibles." Flourens also, in his memoir on the trephine (Archives Generales, t. xxv.), advises the enlarge- ment of the opening of the cranium, by which he supposes all the symptoms would disappear. And, upon this point, we may refer to the observations of Mr. Abernethy on the treatment of that form of fungus cerebri which arises from effusion of blood into the substance of the brain. After advising that the tumor should be pared off with a knife, he says : " But if the tumor continues to in- crease, and if the patient suffers a train of bad symptoms, apparently arising from irritation and pressure made on the brain, some further attempt to relieve him seems to be required. Under these circumstances we have reason to suspect that the coagulum, from want of room to protrude, is en- larged internally, or that by plugging up the orifice in the bone it prevents the escape of some fluid collected within the cranium. The obvious mode pf relief here appears to be to enlarge the openinn- in the bone in proportion to the extent and in- crease of the tumor. Many surgeons have ob- jected to the removal of much of the cranium lest protrusions of this kind should ensue; but it is evident that these tumors arise from an injury and consequent disease of a part of the brain, the event of which must be more fatal if the bone were en- tire. A large removal of bone was formerly a fre- quent event, but a protrusion of this kind very seldom took place." The object is to allow a free escape of the effused blood, so as to obviate the effects of pressure upon the brain, and to arrest the further effusion by the exposure of the bleed- ing surface. We have great confidence in this mode of practice. As to the application of styptics and escharoticsfor the suppression of hfemorrhage or the removal of fungus cerebri, we have not much confi- dence in their employment. The depth to which their influence extends Ciinnot be limited in a man- ner which is desirable. It is possible, as Mr. Abernethy says, that being dissolved in the dis- charge they may insinuate themselves between the tumor and edges of the skull, so as to get into con- tact with the sensible parts within. The occa- sional use of the nitrate of silver is free from the ob- jections mentioned, and as an auxiliary means may be advantageously employed, if used with proper precautions; but we should not rely upon it alone. After the slicing off of the tumor very dilute nitric acid has been employed, and without any injurious effccf; but it is doubtful whether any decided advantage has been gained by it. We should restrict our local means of treatment therefore to the use of the most simple dressings, of which none is better than lint moistened with warm water; and, if pressure be advisable, a pledget of the same, with strips of unirritating adhesive plaster, affords the safest and best possible application. It fortunately happens occasionally, in very un- promising cases, that under a very mild treatment 037 the tendency to protrude altogether ceases, and the protruded brain either recedes within the cavity of the skull or disappears by gradual shrinking. Under these circumstances the lost brain must be supplied by some other constituent, and from the dissection of a case recently under our own imme- diate care we suspect that a large collection of fluid in the lateral ventricle of the corresponding hemi- phere supplies the place of the lost cerebral matter.] John Adams. Hippocrates, De Capitis Vulneribus, 12mo. Lutetia;, 1578. Jac. Berengarius, De Fracturi Cranii; Bologna, 1513. James Yonge, Wounds of the Brain proved curable, not only by the Opinion and Experience of many of the best Authors, but the remarkable History of a Child cured of two very largfe Depressions, with the Loss of a great part of the Skull; a portion the Bram also issuing through a penetrating Wound of the Dura and Pia Mater, 12mo. Lend. 1682. J. J. Wepfer, Observationes Medico-practicje de Affectibns Capitis internis et externis; Scaphusii, 1727. Murray, An post gravem ab ictu vel casu capitis percussionem, non juvante etiam iterata terebratione dura meninx lucisione aperienda? Lutet. Paris. 1736. (Haller, Disp. Chir. vol. i. p. 97.) R. C. Wagner, De Contra- fissura, Jens, 1708. (Haller, Disp. Chir. vol. i. p. 15.) /. C. Teubeler, De Vulneribus Cerebri non semper lethahbus, Hala:, 1760. /. C/ir. Camerarhis, Diss. Inaug. exhibens rarissimam Sanationem Cerebri quassati cum notabili Substantia; Deperdltione, Tu- bing. 1719. Alex. Camerarhis, et Th. Fr. Faber, De ApostematePiiE Matris, Tubinpr. 1722. J. A. Conradi, De Vulnere Fronti inflicto, Lugd. 1722. M. E. Bore- tuts, et J. G. Arnoldt, De Epilepsia ex Depresso Cranio, Regiomont. 1724. G. A. Langgulh, Program- ma de Sinus Frontalis Vulnere sine Terebratione curando, Wittemb. 1758. Chopart, M^moire sur les Lesions delaT6te par Contrecoup, 8vo. Paris, 1771. J. La Fosse, De Cerebri Affectibus a Causis externis eyidentibus, Monsp. 1763. A. J. Van Hulst, De Cerebri ejusque Membranarum Inflammatione et Sud- puratione occulta, Ghidleuop, 1784. P. J. Primelius, Ue Utihtate lucisionis integumentorum Capiti.s in Lffisiombus Capitis, &c. Aelthre, 1788. Bordenave, in T. nn/. de Chirur-ie, t. ii. Le Bran, Traits des Operations de Chirurgie. J. L. Petit, Tr4itd des Mai. Chir t. 1. Z)ease^ Obs. on Wounds of the Head, 8vo. Loud. 1776.. Pott On Injuries of the Head from External Violence. Hill'i Cases in Sureei v O'Halloranpa the different Disorders arising from External Injuries of the Head, 8vo. Dublin 1793 home cases in DesauWs Parisian Chirureical Joiirn-.r M^moire sur les Plaies de T6te, in ffiS CMr de Desault, par Bichat, t. ii. Lassus, Patholoeie Chirur- gicale, t. li. p. 252, &c. edit. 1809. Schmuckcr's Wahniehmungen, b. i. ; and Vermischte Chir Schriften, b. i. and iii. 8vo. Berlin, 1785. Richerund' Nosographie Chir. t. ii. p. 230, et seq. <;dit. 4 / Abernethy on Injuries of the Head, in his Surcicai Works, vol. ii. ed. 1811. Lnrrey, in M^m. de Chir Militaire, t. li. iii. etiv. 8vo. Paris, 1812—1817 l)r' Heiinen, Principles of Military Surgery, ed. 2 8vo' Edin. 1820. Dr. .A Thomson's Report of Observa lions made in the Military Hospitals in Belgium Edin. 1816. Sir Astley Cooper, Lectures on the Principles, &c. of Surgery, vol. i. 1824. Sir B C lirodie, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiv. 1828 z/j/ji' polytc Larrey, Hist. Chir. du iMge de la Citiiriwin d'Anvers, p. 80, Svo. Paris, 1833. A. A. M. Velmut,, »c I'Opdratioii du Trypan, Svo. Paris, mi ii r'c IJaron Dupuytren, in Le90us Orales deClin Chir' t ii. p. 190, 8vo Paris, 1832. Dudley, m Transylvania Journ. ot Medicine, No. I, as quoted by Dr Reese in Amer. ed. of this Dictionary. [Chelius, System of .Surgery, 'Iranslated by .f. F. South, Lend 1847 Erichscn, Science and Art of Surgery, ed. 3. London 1861. Nilaton, Elem. do Pathol Chir. t. ii {"„)»' !?'^-, r/''!'y"'J..U'"^'^"< I-'Pctures on Injuries of the Mend, Medical 'limes and Gazette, vol. ii. 1855, and Med, Chir. Trans, vol. xxxvi. 1853.] See Trkphine. HEMERALOPIA [(from 7}p.4pa day, and ^ the eye) visus diarniis, or nir/ht-blindncss. Much confusion has arisen in consequence of some writers, ancient as well as modern, having cm- ployed this term to signify the opposite condition.]