ABSCESS. 1-: may be best adapted to the circumstances of the Cease. He must further bear in mind the duty of looking for local disease, especially of bone, to which the origin of tlie abscess may probably be traced ; and likewise the dangers which arise from the fact of the existence of a large abscess, no matter what its cause may be. Speaking generally, Ave may say that in all cases, the sooner an abscess is opened the better. Many remedies, local and constitutional, are spoken of as capable of producing absorption, but the less the practitioner trusts to them, the less he will be disappointed. Galbanum plaster, iodine paint, and the like do little good. So soon as the diagnosis is certain, especially if the tumour is enlarging, and has become adherent to the skin, and certainly before the skin is in- flamed or rendered liable to ulcerate, an opening should be made. If the abscess be superficial and small, not con- nected with deep-seated disease, it should be opened freely, so that it may be thoroughly emp- tied, and pressure be kept upon the sac by com- presses, strips of plaster or bandages. The wound, after a day or two, may be bathed with zinc lotion, and the cavity be injected with it, if the discharge continues thin and copious ; or a solution of nitrate of silver or of iodine, may be employed for the same purpose, to destroy the lining of the sac, and create fresh exudation and granulation with vigour. If the discharge continues to get less and less, and there is no particular inconvenience, the cavity may be left to shrink under the influence of moderate pressm-e. There is an untoward event which sometimes occurs to chronic abscesses of scrofulous origin, and that is the deposit of additional scrofulous exuda- tion outside the abscess, the ulceration of the orifice, and conversion of it into a scrofulous ulcer, which is alwavs a most tedious affair. If the abscess has already become perilously laro-e, the great point is to make it smaller before it becomes permanently open, and to avoid the dangers of inflammation of the cyst, and absorption of putrid matter. For this purpose a small open- ing should be made with a trocar or bistoury : the greatest care should be taken to keep up gentle pressure during the operation, so as to keep out the air ; a bandage should be put on so as to main- tain equal pressure on the cyst, and the wound should be most accurately closed by plaster or collodion, or bloody lint moistened with a little perchloride of iron, and be made to heal. After a few days, another opening should be made with the same precautions, and it should be repeated at such times as will not allow the cyst to return to anything like a state of distention. By this pro- cess, it may be hoped that the sac will gradually contract, so that at last if a permanent sinus be established, it may do no harm. If putrefaction of the contents of the sac should take place, not a moment should be lost in making free openings, so that there may be no retention, and in syringing out the cavity with weak solution of chloride of lime, and adopting every means of keepin" the veins full of good wine and soup, so that absorption of the putrid matter may do less harm Treatment of the Diffused Mseess.—Fov tho details of treatment we must refer to the Articles which wc have referred to for details of symptoms. Hole we may say briefly, that early and free mci- sion into the infiltrated tissues, !ind the use of tonics and abundant diet with stimulants, and of small doses of mercury to provoke the eliminative organs (not to affect the mouth) in cases in which there is infection of the blood, are the leading mea- sures. The following aphorisms from the earlier edition of this dictionary, well deserve the attention of the surgeon. Op the time when Abscesses should be OPENED. The following are generally regarded as cases in which an opening should be made, as soon as the slightest degree of fluctuation is perceptible, or sometimes even sooner. 1. Abscesses arising from extravasation or ef- fusion of irritating fluids or matters into the cellu- lar tissue. To this class especially belong urin- ary and f£ecal abscesses. Here the incision is necessary, not only for the discharge of pus, but of the effused matter, or fluid, which is the cause of irritation and suppuration. I may add, that, under such circumstances, a very free incision is required to fulfil these two important indications. 2. Abscesses preceded by intense inflamma- tion, and situated in parts abounding in adipose cellular tissue ; as, for instance, the verge of the anus, the neighbourhood of the rectum, the sides of the neck, and the axillarj', inguinal, and pop- liteal regions. In such cases, if an early opening be not made, the purulent matter spreads to a great extent in the cellular tissue, and an enormous denudation of parts, or separation of them from one another, is apt to ensue. 3. Daily experience teaches the surgeon, that abscesses are seriously retarded in their progress to the surface of the body by the intervention of a fascia, or an aponeurosis. These are cases, there- fore, requiring an early opening to be made, in order to prevent the matter from spreading widely in the interstices of the muscles, from detaching the vessels and nerves from their connexions, and from forming numerous and extensive sinuses in vari- ous directions. Abscesses under the fascia; of the thigh, arm, forearm, and leg, come under the rule here specified, as well as collections of matter under the palmar and plantar fascia;, and in the sheaths of tendons. Here, as Dupuytren observes, the prac- tice of an incision is warranted as soon as the practitioner perceives oedema of the parts, a broad and undefined swelling of them, the phenomena attending the progress of internal abscesses, and a deep obscure fluctuation, following the ordinary symptoms of inflammation. 4 Abscesses in the parietes of the chest, or abdomen, in the vicinity of a serous membrane, should be opened without delay, in order to pre- vent with certainty the eftusion of pus inwardly, an occurrence which, though rare, has sometimes happened. Certain abscesses of the neck, formed under the sterno-cleido mastoid muscle, call for an early opening; because they not only cause a considemble and very painful swelling, but the matter may easily descend towards the clavicle and chest, in the course of the vessels and nerves. 5 Abscesses in parts abundantly supplied with nerves and capillary blood-vessels, and which, when inflamed, are accompanied by e.xcessive pain or close confinement or strangidation of the textures, as whitlows, large painful boils, carbuncles, &c.