HEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS. for 1836, mentions the case of a man wlio died of urethral hseraorrhage, and six of his children from bleeding from casual wounds. In one family. Dr. Otto states, "So assured are its members of the terrible consequences of the slightest wound, that they will not suffer themselves to be bled on any cousideration." The blood proceeds from the capillaries or the minutest ramifications of the arte- ries, no branch of any importance being involved. This disease frequently exists without mani- festing itself by any symptoms ; and it is not until some accident occurs, or some operation has been performed, that the condition of the blood and. 'blood-vessels becomes known. At other times a certain delicacy of constitution exists, by which, with the hereditary tendency, it may be predicated. In the more severe and fatal cases, apart from the accidental occurrence of hsemor- rhage, there is a tendency to dropsical effusions. Ecchymoses also take place on the slightest pres- sure, or even spontaneously, and disappear slowly, leaving a yellow tint. Bullae frequently occur filled with blood. There is a liability also to attacks of pain and swelling of the wrists, ankles, and knee-joints, attended with fever, which have been attributed to rheumatism, but can have no real analogy to that disease, in which the blood is essentially hyperinotic. The subjects of this dis- ease are also more especially liable to epistaxis, hasmatemesis, hfemoptysis from the slightest cough, melsena, hsematuria, and other haemor- rhages. A febrile paroxysm usually attends when the haemorrhage sets in ; but the symptoms of loss of blood rapidly supervene. The blood, at first of the usual colour and feebly coagulable, becomes gradually paler, and ultimately nearly colourless and incoagulable, the fibrine becoming exhausted, and the red corpuscles, which at first existed in something approaching their normal proportions, being also greatly diminished. There is loss of appetite; sometimes, but not always, thirst ; the urine becomes gradually more and more limpid, and smaller in quantity, until it ultimately ceases to be secreted ; the lips become dry; the breathing slow, with frequent sighing, and the action of the heart irregular, intermit- tent, and indistinct, and ultimately it ceases. The theory has been advanced that this disease is the result of excessive htematosis, in relation to the strength and calibre of the vessels ; the febrile and reactionary symptoms recurring periodically being the result of a certain degree of relative pletliora ; since even wounds are not followed by excessive hiemorrhage during the intervals. Tlie hjcmorrhage also is of rare occurrence in men af- fected with hajmorrhoids and in women during the 'menstrual period of life, and, as will be seen under the head of " treatment," it is often pre- vented by circumstances which diminish the quan- tity of the blood in the vessels, as purging and other depleting measures. Schreyer states of a boy five years and another fifteen months okl : "Both present,at variable in- tervals, on their legs and thighs, a number of blue spots wliich swell to the size of a pigeon's egg and then assume a yellowish green sliade ; they do not bleed, unless when opened artificially, but the haimorrhage continues until tlie patient falls into a swoon, and his body becomes pale as death. The blood is at first red, and subsequently re- sembles water in which raw meat has been V>65. steeped; and at this period of the hajmorrhage the blue colour of the spots disappears. The fur- ther progress of the bleeding is arrested by the pressure of the finger on the orifice, which it is generally necessary to continue for twenty-four hours. The orifice is never closed by a well- formed coagulum. The children slowly recover, and continue to all appearance healthy until the next renewal of the hsemorrhage." (Andral, Paili. Anaiomy, hy Toimsmid and West, vol. i. p. 418.) The causes of this disease are involved in ob- scurity. Mr. Millar remarks that it bears an analogy, in some respects, to tuberculosis (scro- fula), and in others to scorbutus. Virchow, on the principle that every dyscrasia is dependent upon a permanent supply of noxious ingredients from certain sources (Cellular Palholo(/y, transl. hy Dr. Cliance, p. 132), points to the spleen or liver as being obviously associated with its production in many instances ; but he admits that from our want of knowledge of the influence exerted by these organs over the special composition of the blood, it is impossible to determine how they pro- duce such an effect. Leukfemia, in its advance towards its usually fatal termination, developes this haemorrhagic state of the blood. In this disease, the spleen and lymphatic glands are the organs most frequently affected, (See LEUKiEMlA.) On the post-mortem examination of a boy a^ed between three and four years, who died from bitmg his tongue, Mr. "Wilson records that " the coats of the vessels of the arterial system were not more than half their usual thickness," and he attributed the haemorrhagic tendency to a deficiency of the contractile power in the arteries. (Lane, lib. cit. p. 187.)] In the last edition of this Dictionary Mr. Cooper remarks : Sometimes this extraordinary disposi- tion to heemorrhage is owing to an accidental cause little suspected. Thus, in an example which happened in the practice of M. Dupuvtren a tumor was found in the right auricle, completely blocking up and greatly dilating the superior vena cava, and extending into the jugular vein up the lower third of the neck: it also filled up the right subclavian vein. The patient, a young woman, lost fatal quantities of blood from the wound of the skin in venesection, and from the socket of a tooth. The actual cautery and all other means were tried in vain. (See Sanson, Des Hanorrhagies Traumatiques p. 21.) A mechanical obstacle to the circulation' situated either in the heart or blood-vessels is noticed by Dr. Carswell, as one of the causes of hajmorrhage; and, besides solutions of continuity he likewise enumerates as causes a modification of the functions of the capillaries, as evinced in vica- rious hemorrhage, and tliat from erectile tissue. Nor does he omit a diseased state of the blood as exemplified in scurvy, and some forms of purpura and typhus fever. (See CarswcWs Illusfratioiis of the Elcmcniary Forms of Disease, fasc. (i.) [In illustration of the impropriety of the perform- ance of surgical operations on the subjects of this disease. Dr. Millar has the following quotation :— " In a patient of a ha;morrhagic tendency, afiec'ted with white swelling of tlie knee-joint, a puncture of the tumor with a lancet was followed by the most alarming bleeding; yet a surgeon was found bold enough to propose amputation, wliich accord- ingly was performed in opposition to the opinion of n more cautious practitioner. The principal 3 K