CONJUi> in the very acute form. The main point to attend to is the state of the system ; and wherever we can trace the train of symptoms I have been describing, however severe and threatening the local symptoms may be, the treatment must consist of the free exhibition of tonics, together with a generous and even stimulating diet. After prolonged lactation, a very severe a,nd obstinate ophthalmia of this type comes on, which requires the same plan of treatment, and, of course, immediate weaning of the child ; but the system is often so disturbed, and the powers are so completely undermined by this continuous drain, that the symptoms may remain in full force long after the exciting cause has been removed. In some few cases of ophthalmia, there is a remarkable ten- dency to relapse or to recur at short intervals, without any obvious cause. Such instances are very distressing to the patient, and embarrassing to the surgeon. Where all our ammunition has been exhausted in vain, and no obvious cause of failure can be detected, an entire change of air, or what is still better, a sea voyage, is the most likely means of accomplishing a permanent cure. Ophthalmia sometimes assumes an irritable type. The vessels are but slightly injected ; light is annoying, and distress is especially experienced when the eye is used even to a moderate extent ; there is a frequent and rapid movement of the lids ; some tendency to lachrymation ; and what is peculiarly indicative of this state of things, if you examine the ocular margins of the lids and the inner canthus, you find a fine fringe of froth. This must be carefully distinguished from mucus or pus ; it evidently arises from the ordinary secre- tions, slightly altered in character, and filled with minute air-bubbles by the rapid and constant fric- tion of the lids. This state is irksome and obsti- nate ; it requires that the eyes should be kept at rest, and protected from the stimulus of strong light by means of a shade or of neutral tint glasses. Soothing applications usually give temporary relief, but that which I have found most decidedly bene- ficial in this class of disease is the wine of opium, dropped into the eye two or three times a day. It is rather painful at first, and must act primarily as a stimulant ; but this effect soon passes away, and the soothing influence of the opium is then felt. Counter-irritation and careful constitutional treat- ment may in some cases be required. Simple ophthnlmia has a tendency, more particularly at an advanced period of life, and in a feeble state of system, to pass into a chronic form, and sometimes takes on that form from the commencement of the at- tack. The symptomsare mild but protracted. There is a sensation of pricking and uneasiness in the eye, particularly towards night, and a tendency to water, when used upon small or bright objects. A few large and tortuous vessels may be seen coursing over the globe, and the inner surfiice of the lids is preternaturally red, and two or three of the little chalky deposits we have already alluded to may bo observed in the conjunctiva. The lids are often thickened, and the roots of the lashes inflamed. The treatment of such cases is unsatisfactory, and temporary relief is more probable than per- manent cure. Astringents and stimuli are the most likely means, but they require to bo varied in strength and altered from time to time as their effects become worn otit. Alum, zinc, and lead in solutions, are useful in different cases, and must be CTIVITIS. 471 empirically applied and varied. The sulphate ot copper rubbed over the inner surface of the lid is sometimes a valuable application. Ointments com- posed of the nitrate of mercury or the nitric oxyde and lard, and applied to the lids, are often useful. The frequent and free application of cold water, by immersioji of the face, or by a continuous stream by means of a little fountain, strengthens the en- larged vessels, and gives great comfort. Pustular Ophtliabnia.—The essential distinction between this affection and simple ophthalmia, lies in the tendency of the vessels to arrange them- selves in groups and patches aroimd the margin of the cornea. Sometimes there is a single group, sometimes there are three or four, and sometimes an elevated fringe of vessels surrounding the cornea. Usually the remainder of the conjunctiva is in a normal state ; sometimes it is found uniformly red and inflamed. In this latter case, pustular ophthal- mia is superadded to and engrafted upon either the simple or catarrhal form. On examining these cases more minutely, we find some modifications. There may be merely an elevated thickened spot, covered with bright red capillaries, and with three or four long vessels leading to it. This may become arrested at this stage and subside, or a little vesicle may form, or a small pustule; these, at a latter stage, may open and form a little aphthous ulcer. All these constitute varieties with some authors, but such distinctions are not of much practical value. This disease is almost invariably due to some irritation of the mucous membrane of the ali- mentary canal, and is the result of some error of diet, or arrested cutaneous action, or weak digestion with acrid secretions. The treatment must be chiefly directed to this point. The disease usually subsides quickly on the restoration of a healthy state of these organs. Active aperients, a com- bination of calomel and rhubarb or jalap with an alkali, are given, at the same time the skin is acted upon by means of mild antimonials and a warm bath. After this, when the tongue is clean and the skin moist, a tonic combined with an alkali is sometimes useful. Great attention must at the same time be paid to the diet, some error in which has probably been at the root of the mischief; all stimuli, sweets, acids and rich dishes are especially to be avoided. The local treatment should be mild and southing ; usually, warm appli- cations are most agreeable and beneficial. These may be combined with opiates, as the ordinary poppy fomentation ; when there is much feeling of irritation and distress in the eye, stimuli are almost invariably injin-ious, except iu the very chronic stage and in the aphthous form, where one frequently finds advantage from touching the sur- face of the aphthous ulcer with the solid nitrate of silver, at the pametime protecting the rest of the eye with glycerine. It sometimes happens, that when the disease has been neglected or mismanaged in the early stage, it is rather obstinate, and continues after the constitutional derangement,upon which it originally depended, has subsided. Counter-irri- tation and the cautious use of mild stimulating collyria may be useful. There is a modification of this disease, in which the vesicle or pustule encroaches upon the margin of the cornea, and, after breaking, gives rise to a troublesome little ulcer of the cornea, which undermines its edge, and en- croaches upon its substance ; it is surrounded by a H U i