300 BAND, AGE. contact with each other, and prevent any strain upon tlie sutures witii which the parts are ininie- diately joined ; and we often unite parts by the bandage alone. But, it is particularly to be ob- served, that, in gnu-shot wounds, and otiier bruised wounds, thougli it would be imprudent to sew the parts, since it is impossible that they should al- together unite, yet the gentle and general support which we give by a compress and bandage, pre- vents them from separating far from each other, unites the deep parts early, and lessens the extent of that surface which must naturally fall into sup- puration." " In the h£Emorrhagy of wounds, we cannot always find the artery ; we dare not always cut parts for fear of greater dangers ; we are often alarmed with bleedings from uncertain vessels, or from veins as well as arteries: these hcBmorrbages are to be suppressed by the compress ; which com- press, or even the sponge itself, is but an instru- ment of compression, serving to give the bandage its perfect effect. Frequently, in bleedings near the groin, or the armpit, or the angle of the jaw, —wherever the bleeding is rapid, the vessels un- certain, the cavity deep, and the blood not to be commanded by a tourniquet, and where the circum- stances forbid a deliberate and sure operation, we trust to compress and bandage alone." " Bandage is very powerful in suppressing bleeding. At one period of surgery, it took place of every other method, &c. If a compress be neatly put upon the bleeding arteries, if there be a bone to resist the compress, or even if tlie soft parts be firm below, and the bandage be well rolled, the patient is almost secure. But such a roller must be applied smoothly from the very extremity of the fingers or toes ; the members must be tho- roughly supported in all its lower parts, that it may bear the pressure above. It is partial stricture alone that does harm, creates intolerable pain and anxiety, or brings on gangrene. Haemorrhagy requires a very powerful compression, which must therefore be very general, &c. It must not be made only over the bleeding arteries, which is all that the surgeon thinlcs of in general, &c." " In abscesses, where matter is working down- wards along the limb, seeking out, as it were, the weak parts, undermining the skin, and wasting it, insulating and surrounding the muscles, and pe- netrating to the bones, the bandage does every thing. The expelling bandage, the propelling bandage, the defensive bandage, were among the names which the older surgeons gave to the roller, when it was applied for these particular purposes ; and these are properties of the roller which should not be forgotten." (See Principles of Surgery, vol. i.) Soon after this description, in which the ad- vantages of the roller in gun-shot wounds and hajmorrhage are rather exaggerated, Mr. John Bell proceeds to explain in wiuit manner this most simple of all bandages may be put on a limb. " Practice will convince you, that the firmness and neatness of a bandage depend altogether upon these two points ; First, upon the turns succeeding each other in a regular proportion ; and, Secondlj', upon making reverses, wherever you find any slackness likely to arise from the varying form of the limb. Thus, in rolling from the foot to the ankle, leg, and knee, you must take care, first, that the turns, or, as the French call \him,doloircs. of the roller lie over one another by just one third of the breadth of the bandage ; and, secondly, that, at every difficult part, as over a joint, you turn the roller upon the limb, with the opposite flat side towards it: you must turn the bandage so as to reverse it, making what the French call a re7i- versee of the roller at the ankle, at the calf of the leg, and at the knee. You must be careful to roll your bandage from below upwards, and support the whole limb by a general pressure. That you may be able to support the diseased part with a particular pressure, you must lay compresses upon the hollows and upon the bed of each particular abscess, and change the place of these compresses from time to time, so as now to prevent matter sinking into a particular hollow, now to press it out from a place where it is already lodged, and again to reunite the surface of an abscess alreadj' com- pletely formed, from which the matter has been discharged." {Principles of Surgery, vol. i.) In applying a roller to the leg, as Dr. Cutler ob- serves, the turns cannot be laid down flatly, as the upper border will compress the salient part of the limb, while the lower one hangs loose. This in- convenience is obviated by reversing it at every turn, so that the inferior becomes the superior, and the external face the internal. The hand should press lightly over each reverse, so as to flatten it. Ivto things are to be observed in apply- ing this reversed bandage ; one is not to unroll, in making the angle, more of the band than is abso- lutely necessary; the other, to carry the angles upwards, in a perpendicular line, and always far from the part affected. (See Cutler's Surgeon's Pracl. Guide i?i Dressing, &c. p. 18.) When we make use of a single-headed roller, merely as a retentive bandage, we should remem- ber always to begin the application of it on the side opposite the wound. The obvious reason for so doing is to prevent a further separation of the lips of the wound, as the contrary manner of ap- plying the roller would tend directly to divide tliem. (Gooch, vol. i. p. 143.) The intention of the e.rpellent bandage is to keep the discharge sufficiently near the orifice of the wound to prevent the formation of sinuses. In general a compress of unequal thickness is neces- sary ; the thinner part of the compress being placed next, and immediately contiguous to, the orifice of tlie wound ; the thicker part over the hollow in which the matter would become collected. Before the bandage is applied, the pus nuist be completely pressed out, and the rolling beijin with two or three circular turns on the lower part of the compress. The bandage must then be carried spirally up- wards, but not quite so tightly as below. It is afterwards to be rolled downward to the place where it began. A bandage is termed compound, wlien several pieces of linen, cotton,or flannel, are sewed together in diiferent directions, or when the bandage is torn or cut, so as to have several tails. Such are the T bandage, the suspensory bandage, the capistruni, &c. Tlie eigliteen-lailfd bandage is one of the most compound. This is in connnon use for fractures of the leg and thigh ; sometimes, but not often, for those of the fore-arm, and freciuently for parti- cular wounds. Its great recommendation is the facility with which it can be undone, so as to allow the parts to be examined, and its not creating, on such an occasion, the smallest disturbance ol the