ANHURISM. iinpi'ess over tli« tumor, wltli rest, cold appli- iiis, iuul moderate diet." Those means had desiied etFect; and the patient did not complain Hack of those pains which so freciuently remain .Iter the operation for aneurism. According t.) Mr. Liston, these pains are in g>'- leral distinctly rcferrible to the sacro-ischiatic lerve and its branches, and are explained by the state of tlie vessels in the substance of the nerve. In the natural state, the neurilemal vessels, when injected, are not larger than sewing threads ; but, when the enlargement of the collateral branches is requisite, owing to the obstruction of the trunk, they also are called on to contribute their share in tlie new circulation ; and they become enormously distended. In one remarkable specimen, in which the limb was injected and examined fifteen years after the superficial femoral artery had been se- cured for aneurism in the ham, the vessels in the sacro-ischiatic nerve had attained the size of crow- quills, and were convoluted in an extraordinary manner. The pains in the limb, noticed by Mr. Listen as occurring after the operation, he acknow- ledges, however, are by no means so severe as those experienced previously, and which are pro- duced by the compression and stretching of the nerves by the sac. {Edinb.Med.Journ. No. 90, p.2.) [The ligature of the femoral artery for popliteal aneurism is, on the whole, a very successful opera- tion. Of 110 cases recorded by Dr. Crisp, only 12 proved fatal ; of these 4 died of secondary hemorrhage, and 3 of gangrene of the limb.] When tiie operation succeeds, a considerable portion of the artery above the aneurismal tumor is rendered impervious, the vessel indeed being sometimes converted into a solid cord from the origin of the profunda to that of the tibial arteries. (4. Cooper, Med. Chii: Trans, vol. ii. p. 254.) In general, however, the obliteration of the artery is less extensive ; a fact, particularly noticed in one of Mr. Hunter's cases (Trans, of a Soo. for tlie Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, vol. i. p. 153), and vainly urged by Deschanips, as a proof of ttie insufficiency of the new method. (See Obs. el Reflexions sur la Liyalure des prin- cipales Arteres lilessees, el parliculierement sur VAneurisme de l^Artire poplitec, p. 76. Paris, 1797.) It appears from the observations of Mr. Hodgson, tiiat the artery generally becomes im- pervious, for the space of three or four finger- breadths, at the place where the ligature is ap- plied ; below which part its tube is free, and con- tinues so for some distance, when the obliteration again commences, and descends along a consider- able extent of the popliteal artery to the origin of the inferior articiilar or tibial arteries. Tluis, says this author, an insulated portion of the femoral artery preserves its cavity, from each extremity of which considerable anastomosing branches arise ; the upper branches convey blood into the vessel, ajid the lower transmit it into anastomosing chan- nels, that originate below the knee. (On Diseases (f Arteries, ^-c. p. 278. (Now, as Mr. Hodgson is unacquainted with any case, except that recorded l)y Sir Astley Cooper, where, after the modern operation, the artery was obliterated from the scat <if disease in the ham to the part at which the liga- ture was applied, he thinks it ])robable that, in most instances, a double collateral circulation ex- ists in the limb, after this method of cure. A preparation in the Museum of St. Mary's Hos- pital, admirably bears out the view here taken by Mr. Hodgson. It was obtained from a patient aged twenty-five, who died of an internal aneurism six months after the ligature had been applied to the femoral artery for the cure of apopliteal aneurism. In consequence of the motion of the blood being more or less impeded in the aneurismal sac by the application of the ligature to the femoral artery, the aneurismal cavity soon becomes completely filled with coagula, which even block up the ad- joining portion of the arterial tube. The coagu- lated blood in the sac is afterwards absorbed; and a gradual diminution, and final disappearance of the aneurism in the ham ensue ; with the excep- tion of a slight induration, which sometimes re- mains, composed of a remnant of the sac itself, or of the fibrous parts of the blood. This slight hard- ness in the cavity of the ham occasions no incon- venience, and dues not hinder the patient from, performing the motions of the knee and leg with quickness and safety, (iicarpa, p. 257, edit. 2.) After the operation, the circulation is carried on principally by the arleria profunda, whose branches communicate with the articular arteries of the popliteal, and with arteries sent to the knee by the anterior and posterior tibial. Large branches in the sciatic nerve, sent olf by the arteria profunda, communicate very freely with the popliteal artery, the articular, and branches of the posterior tibial. As Sir Astley Cooper has further explained, the freedom of anastomosis sometimes leads to a re- production of an aneurism. The femoral artery was tied by Mr. Key, and the patient, after being discharged cured, returned with a painful | tumor in the ham, attended with an obscure pulsation. The limb was amputated, and a large artery, pass- ing to the tumor, and situated nearly in the usual place of the femoral, required a ligature. {Lec- tures, cj-c. vol. ii. p, 60.) 1 shall now advert to a few facts in the history of surgery, which eventually led to the bold and successful operations performed at the present day, for the cure of aneurisms of the femoral and pop- liteal arteries. The earliest case, of which the particulars are recorded, amounting to a satisfac- tory proof that the lower extremity might be duly supplied with blood, notwithstanding the femoral artery had been tied high up in the thigh, is the example, related by M. A. Severinus, of a false aneurism of the thigh, about eight finger-breadths below the groin, caused by a musket-ball wound. In this instance, Severinus tied the femoral artery above and below the aperture in it, and not only was the patient's life saved, but the use of the limb also preserved. (Chirurr/icB Ejficacis, p. 2, Enar- ratoria.) The next authentic case of the ligature of the femoral artery, is that reported by Saviard where liottentnit, in 1688, tied this artery on ac- count of a false aneurism, the result of a sword wound, at the inner and upper part of the thigh. Tlie surgeons, called into consultation, were im- mediately convinced that the only thing to be done was to take up the femoral artery ; but they were fearful lost the jiatient should perish (if lilcediiig ore the opening in tiie vessel could be found ; and, in case the artery wore secured, they apprehended that tlie obstruction of the circulation would be follow(!d by mortification of the limb. The patient was therefore first prepared for his fate by tiie administration of the sacrament. A band was then applied round the upper part of tlio