9 420 108 118 1 \ GUNSHOT ■ when it is lodged in tlie thoracic cavity itself, it descends by its weight, and sometimes excites considerable irritation, suppuration, sinuses, and hectic symptoms; in this case, if its situation can be ascertained. Baron Larrey recommends an attempt to extract it. In an early stage of the case, he says, that the intercostal space will often be wide enough to let the ball pass through it; but that, at a later period, this space becomes too narrow, and it will be necessary to cut away a portion of the upper edge of the rib with a lenti- cular knife, which is to be preferred to a trephine, or saw. This advice is supported by some in' teresting cases. (See Mim. de Cliir. Mil. t. iv. p. 253.) Frequently the ball fractures the ribj and, with the aid of dilatation, sufficient room for its extraction may be made ; but the possibility and propriety of removing it through the original opening will, of course, depend upon the situation of the foreign body, and the urgency of the symptoms. A case is recorded in which a ball weighing three ounces and a half was thus removed. (JS/Ied. and Surg. Journ. vol. iii. p. 353.) [Balls have been kno\vn to lodge for a'time in a rib, costo-stemal cartilage, or body of a vertebra and fall afterwards into the cavity of the pleura, causing inflammation of that membrane, or pleuro- pneumonia, from which the patient perishes, or may gravitate into the costo-diaphragmatic angle of the pleural cavity, and become enveloped in a false membrane, producing no further mischief. (Baii- dens, Clinique.) _ Hernia of the lung is one of the rare complica- tions of penetrating wounds of the chest. The protruded lung is sometimes strangulated, and from exposure to the air becomes dry and livid, and ap- pears gangrenous. In such a state it has been re- turned to its natural cavity, and has recovered its functions. If it be torn, contused, or gangrenous, Baudens recommends it to be excised or cauterised. Mr. Guthrie is of opinion, when it is not strangu- lated, that it should be allowed to remain, or be so WOUNDS, far returned as to rest just withm the edges of the divided pleura, so as to fill up the gap made by the wound, and the integuments accurately drawn over it and retained. {Commentaries, edit, b', fol. 499 ) Emplyscma of the areolar tissue, formerly so much dreaded by army surgeons, is a rare occur- rence to any extent, and it may always be pre- vented by enlarging the external wound, for it happens m oblique wounds, where the opening in the cavity and the external wound are not oppo- site; by making them so, and and exerting a little pressure, if necessary, its recurrence may be pre- vented. Baron Larrey gives a plate of the appear- ance of a patient in the advanced stage of general emphysema. (See Emphysema.) Gunshot wounds of the diaphragm are nearly always mortal. Mr. Guthrie states that wounds of this muscle never unite, whether they occur in the muscular or tendinous part. Should the pa- tient recover, he is liable to a protrusion of some of the contents of the abdomen into the cavity of the chest. These wounds are followed by intense in- flammation, hiccough, spasmodic or jerking breath- ing, pain on the top of the shoulder, loss of power of the arm, excessive thirst, and vomiting. {Com- mentaries of Surgery, edit. 5, fol. 500, et seq.) Bullets sometimes lodge in the sternum; for their removal it may be necessary to resort to the appli- cation of a trephine, as they become so securely wedged in the spongy structure of that bone. If the bone is fractured and the ball can be detected lying beneath in the anterior mediastinum, the broken fragments should be removed, if loose ; if not, a sufficient portion should be divided by the small saw or trephine, and then elevated so as to allow of the extraction of the bullet. Appended are Tables, showing the number and results of all the cases of gunshot wounds of the chest coming under treatment before Sebastopol, from 1st April 1855, to the end of the war, in Commissioned Officers, Non-commissioned Officers, and Privates.] [Non-commissioned Officers and Pnvaies.} DIED. Total treated. In the regimen- tal hospitals. In the secondary hospitals. Of other disease while under treatment. ■d ■■B "3 •a u to ■r Invalided or transferred. 1. Simple flesh contusions and r slight . . 2. With injury of bone or cartilage, with- \ out known lesion of contents, and [ not opening the cavity ' 3. With lesion of contents, but not open. \ 4. Penetrating the cavity, and missile i lodged, or apparently lodged . . ■> 5. Perforating, or apparently r superficially perforating the cavity , 1 deeply . . 143 112 24 16 33 9 38 0 1 0 9 28 2 08 0 1 1 0 3 1 3 0 1 0 0 0 f 0 0 0 3 1 9 31 3 71 135 77 11 3 0 0 0 8 32 12 4 o 6 13 • Total 226 1 76