304 CANCER. sule )3 formed around an encephaloid tumor, and it may be either adherent or not to the surrounding tissues. When compressed a milky fluid oozes out from these tumors, the so-called "cancer juice," which is the best rough test of their nature, if the attention be confined to inspection of the dead mass, and not extended to its vital actions. The firm medullary cancers, as Paget describes them, are tense, compact, and moderately tough, and "merge into exact likeness to the less hard and more elastic scirrhous cancers." They sometimes present a strongly marked grain as if from fibres, but usually tear or split, as very firm coagulated albu- men might. Some of them are uniform, others lobed, even to the degree of presenting the conglomerate appearance like a salivary gland (pancreatic sar- coma ?) In some instances the characteristic can- cer juice cannot be obtained on pressure, " the firmest tumors may give only a thin turbid fluid." Rokitansky notices as extreme conditions some growths which are loose, pulpx', and diffluent, and others which in density and resistance approximate to scirrhus. This difference, he says, depends as well on the quantity and density of the fibrous stroma, as also on the relative quantity of the nuclei and cells and fluid intercellular substance consti- tuting the cancer juice in the meshes of the stroma. He thus describes the varieties of the cancer cell-growih, and of the stroma, (a) Cells, equal- ling or exceeding the l-30th millim. {-^^ in.) in size, round, or oval, angular, with processes, polyhedric, like ganglion globules, or various epithelial cells, and provided with one or several nuclei; sometimes cells containing an endogenous growth. (6) Club, spindle-shaped, caudate cells, (c) Naked round or oval nuclei, of ordinary or larger size, elongated like a staff'or spindle. Seve- ral of these elements occur very often together, one or other usually predominating. (rf) The nuclei, whether in cells or free, grow on very often far beyond the normal size into round, oval, struc- tureless vesicles, around which fibrously elongated cells and nuclei arrange themselves concentrically so as to form alveoli. Rokitansky considers that tumors such as these are often identical with Le- bert's " fibro-plastic." (e) The structureless vesi- cles may throw out pouch, or tube-like, processes. The stroma may consist of an exceedingl}' deli- cate areolated tissue, with wide meshes. This condition (as I have myself noticed) ma)' prevail at the periphery of a growth, while at its base the trabecule and lamellfe are very much stronger, and the meshes smaller. The delicate stroma may itself be altogether absent, so that the cancer consists of a mere cell-mass; in this state it occurs as an infil- tration of spongy osseous tissue. The loculi enclosed by strong trabeculae may be as large as a bean or millet seed, or more. They may form tubes, with terminal dilatations. The trabeculre may assume a dendritic arrangement, as in the villous cancer to be presently described. Sometimes the stroma is osseous. Growths in and on bones are penetrated by thorn-like, or lamellar osteophytes springing from the bone, and produced also by partial ossification of tlie stronger portions of the fibrous stroma. Sometimes such bony skeletons present a meshed or tubular arrangement. Tliey are quite independent of the osseous shell formed in some cases by the growth of an expanding tumor within the bone. Ossified trabeculae and lamellte occur not uncom- monly in encephaloid cancers of soft parts, Miiller's malignant osteoid seems tobe an encephaloid growth with a bony skeleton. The supply of blood-vessels to encephaloid tumors is sometimes very great. They do not diff'er from those of normal tissues except in being more delicate and lacenible. Some growths resemble erectile tumors in the number of large vessels they contain, and vary in size accord- ing to the repletion of the latter with blood. " When the blood-vessels are chiefly arterial, the whole mass of the tumor may have a soft full pulsa- tion— a condition which seems peculiarly apt to occur when tiie tumor is in part imbedded in or supported by bone, and in part held down by fibrous tissue, such as that of the periosteum." (Paget.) Extravasations of blood are apt to take place into the substance of these tumors, and if wounded, they may bleed almost as if a vessel had been opened. (a) The female sej; does not so powerfully favour the production of medullary as it does that of scir- rhous cancer. (6) Early age is far more liable to its occurrence than it is to that of scirrhus. Out of 171 cases, 25 occurred before the tenth year, and 79 before the thirtieth. Paget and Lebert agree that the eyes, the testicles, and the bones, are the situations most often affected at the earliest age. (c) The influence of hereditary tendency is probably about the same in medullary as in scirrhous cancer. {d) An injury to a part seems not unfrequently to act as the determining cause of the production of cancer of this kind in it. (e) The Uglit-com- plexioned appear far more liable to be the subjects of encephaloid ; the darker, of scirrhus. Indica- tions of failing health occur more often at the com- mencement of the former than of the latter. The rate of growth of encephaloid may be very rapid. Mr. Paget has known it to exceed a pound per month. " In general, the more rapid the growth, the less is the firmness, and the less perfect the development of nuclei and cells." The growth in other cases may be ver}' gradual, and this in one tumor while others are increasing rapidlj'. The ulceration which takes place over encephaloid growths is not such as is occasioned by scirrhus ; " it is only such as may ensue over any quickly growing tumor." The skin and covering parts become stretched and tliinned, at last inflame and ulcerate ; and so an opening is formed, out of which the growth protrudes and fungates luxuriantly. Encephaloid cancers, though themselves diseases, have their normal mode of life, and also their ab- normal deviations, or their own diseases. They may simply degenerate, by a kind of shrivelling or condensation, gradually decrease, and at last dis- appear ; or they may undergo fatty metamorphosis, or calcareous, just as the scirrhous cancers. They are prone to be the seat of haemorrhage, especially when they protrude, and also of apoplectic extra- vasations into their substance, by the changes in wliich they may come to present various colours. "The extreme examples of such bleeding cancers constitute the fnngiis hcemalodes." " Acute in- flammation, also, is" frequent, especially in such as are exposed through ulcers. It may produce, not only enlargement of the blood-vessels and swelling of the tumor, but softening, suppuration, and I believe, other of its ordinary efl'ects. The soften- ing is often attended with a rapid fatty degenera- tion or disintt'gration of the cancer structures. " By slougliing, also, a medullary cancer may be wholly ejected ; and this event is more likely to