4.0« DISLOC This is frequently exemplified in luxations of the shoulder and thigh. It may be said, however, of the luxations of enarthrodial joints, that although their reduction may require considerable efforts, yet it can be ac- complished, and that the accident leaves no ill effects. On the contrary, in dislocations of gin- glymoid joints, the same reason which renders them more unfrequent, makes them also more serious. The solidity of these joints prevents the uniting means from being destroyed, except by great vio- lence ; and the extent of the articular surfaces does not permit a considerable displacement, espe- cially a complete one, without extensive injury of the ligaments and surrounding soft parts. It is for these reasons, no doubt, that compound luxa- tions and protrusion of the ends of the bones are most ;^commonly seen in ginglymoid articula- tions. The more recent a luxation is, the more easy it is to reduce, and therefore, cceteris jKirihus, the less grave is the injury. In this point of view, dis- locations of ginglymoid joints are the most serious, because they sooner become irreducible than those of enarthrodial articulations. Simple dislocations are much less dangerous than those which are complicated with contusion, injury of a large nerve or blood-vessel, inflam- matory swelling, fracture, wound, and, especially, a protrusion of the end of the bone. (Boyer, Ma- ladies Chir, t. iv. p. 55, 56.) Dislocations from disease of the parts of bones entering into the formation of the joints, termed spontaneous or consecutive luxations, cannot admit of reduction: when they arise from the hip- disease, it is not merely in consequence of the ligaments being destroyed, but because parts of the acetabulum itself are more or less absorbed. However, there are other spontaneous dislocations from preternatural looseness of the ligaments, where reduction may be accomplished with the greatest facility ; though the displacement generally recurs from slight causes. Mr. Wallace has made some interesting patho- logical remarks on dislocations, deduced from the dissection of an unreduced dislocation of the head of the femur on the dorsum ilii, accompanied by a fracture of the superior edge of the acetabulum, which formed part of the new articular surface. The case confirmed one point, which indeed was previously well known ; namely, that when a bone is allowed to remain unreduced, and in such a situation that the natural movements of the limb are prevented or restricted, its muscles become diminished in size, or wasted. Mr. Wallace's case demonstrated further, however, that such atrophy affects the external rotator muscles in a greater degree than others, in consequence of their action having been rendered almost impossible by the ex- istence of check-ligaments extended from the ilio- pubic symphysis to the lesser trochanter. Mr. Wallace likewise notices the fact, that if, at the time of dislocation, a tendon be torn across at its junction with the muscle, the detaclied ends of the miiscuhir fibres become connected with those parts witii which they may be brought in contact. In the case adverted to tliis had liappened to the pyriforniis. Mr. Wallace next explains, that, if the fleshy fibres of a muscle be torn through, they reunite by a tendinous tissue. This fact was exemplified in the gemelli and quadiatus. If a muscle be bo torn or injured as to render its reunion by tendon im- practicable, its entire texture becomes changed, or rather the muscle is absorbed, and " there is de- posited in its place a substance of a peculiar texture, resembling a mixture of adeps and fibro-cartilage." In the case referred to this had happened to the obturator internus. Another circumstance exemplified in this in- stance was, that when the distance between the points of attachment of a muscle is either increased or diminished, the muscular fibre has the power of undergoing such changes of shortening or elongation as may be necessary to adapt itself to its new state. " The triceps femoris, and some others, were in this case shortened ; and the quadratus and gemelli were elongated." " When any of the ligaments of a joint have been torn during the ant of dislocation, if the bone be allowed to remain in such a situation that the torn ligaments can no longer serve any useful pur- pose, they are completely absorbed, and disappear, or they are converted into cellular tissue, and become confounded with the surrounding parts. Thus, in the present case, there were not the slightest remains of the round ligament. " In all complete dislocations of the enarthrodial joints, the capsular ligament must necessarily be ruptured. If the bone be returned into its natural situation, the laceration is quickly repaired ; but if the displacement be allowed to continue, a perfect capsule will be formed round the new joint, and the original lacerated capsule will contribute to form a greater or a smaller portion of this new capsule, according to the situation of the parts." Mr. Wallace deems it probable that, in his case, the capsule was lacerated, although the dislocation was only partial, in consequence of a part of the acetabulum having been broken off. " Yet (says he) of this laceration there was not any appearance. The new capsule was remarkable for its great thickness ; but it was not formed of those regular fibres which enter into the formation of the original capsule ;" and, " although its inner surface had the power of secreting synovia, it did not exhibit the smooth, shining aspect of synovial membrane." According to Mr. Wallace's investigations, na- ture does not possess the power of forming articular cartilage in those accidental joints which result from unreduced dislocations. " The new articular surfaces are always covered by a lamina of bone, which resembles in appearance that ivorj--like sub- stance sometimes found on natural articulating surfaces. As a cartilaginous surface cannot play easily on a bony surface, the original cartilage, which may have covered the head of the disloc.ited bone, becomes absorbed, and its situation occupied by the same kind of tissue as that which forms the new surface, upon which the head of the bone may be applied." Another thing noticed by Mr. Wal- lace is, the alteration of the articular cavity, in consequence of the removal of the head of the bone. It becomes contracted in size and altered in form ; and "the cartilage, which formerly covered its surface, disappears, being replaced by ligamentous fibres, which grow at right angles from tiie surface of the bone, and these, extending outwards, become confounded with the surrounding parts." Mr. Wallace finally adverts to the wonderful facility with which the osseous tissue, apparently unyielding as it is, adopts itself to varied sUites.