714 side. The motion of the pieces of bone on one another may be felt, as well as the projection of tlieend oi the internal portion. When the shoulder IS moved, a crepitus may also be perceived ; but this is productive of great pain, and the diagnosis 13 so obvious, that it is quite unnecessary. [Occasionally, the fractured ends remain in con- tact, either wholly or partially, and then the deformity will not be so evident, but movement of the shoulder will generally produce a crepitus. Sometimes, without being completely separated, they become so placed as to form an angle with each other. In very rare cases, and when the fracture has been oblique from below upwards and inwards, the external piece has been found to ride over the inter- nal, the directionof the obliquity having, no doubt, occasioned the unusual displacement. Both clavicles are occasionally broken. Malgaigne records si.x: examples of this double accident, and what IS somewhat singular, in three out of the six, the fractures remained ununited. (See Traite. de's FracUires, p. 494.) Fracture of the clavicle is often met with in young children. It is, in fact, more frequent in them than fracture of any other bone.] For the reduction, the two indications are, to push outwards and backwards the scapular fragment, and to bring it to the level of the sternal part. The ancients and many moderns, have supposed that, in order to set a fracture of the clavicle, the shoulder should be drawn back, and fixed in that position. The patient was placed on a low stool, so that an assistant might put his knee between the shoulders, which he drew back at the same time with both hands, while the surgeon applied the bandage which was to keep the parts in this position. But when the shoulders are thus drawn towards one another, the scapula is obviously pushed towards the sternum, and with it the ex- ternal portion of the clavicle, which passes imder the internal fragment. The figure of 8 bandage has commonly been used for maintaining the parts in this position. AVhile the assistant keeps back the shoulders, as above described, the surgeon is to apply one end of a roller to the armpit on the side affected, and then make it cross obliquely to the opposite shoulder, round which it is to pass, and from this to the other shoulder, about which it is to be applied in the same manner, and afterwards repeatedly crossed before and behind. The tightness with which it is necessary to apply this bandage, produces ex- coriation about the armpits, and the effect is to make the ends of the fracture overlap each other ; the very thing which it is wished to avoid. As Boyer remarks, many of the instruments which have been contrived, are only modifications of the figure of 0 bandage, and are not at all better. Deaault advised extension to be made by means of the limb which is articulated with the fractured bone. This is done by converting the humerus into a lever, by carrying its lower end forward, in- ward, and upward, pushing the shoulder backward, npward, and outward, and putting a cushion in the armpit to serve as a fulcrum. iJesault used to put in the armpit a hair or flock cushion, five or six inches long, and thieo inches and .a quarter thick at its base. Two strings are Httaclied to tlio corners of the base, which is placed upward : they cross the back and breast, and aro »cd on the shoulder of the other arm. The cushion FRACTURE. bemg thus placed m the armpit, and the fore-arm bent, Desault used to take hold of the patient's elbo^y, and carry it forward, upward, and inward pressing it forcibly against the breast. By this' mancBuvre, the humerus carries the shoulder out- ward, the ends of the fracture become situated on- posite each other, and all deformity is removed An assistant is to support the arm in this position' Willie the surgeon is to place one end of a roller nine yards long, in the armpit of the opposite side' and then apply the bandage over the upper part of the arm, and across the back to the same situation. 1 fie arm and trunk are to be covered with circles ot the roller, as far down as the elbow, drawing the bandage more tightly, the lower it descends. Compresses, dipped in camphorated spirit, having been placed along the fractured bone, Desault took a second roller of the same length as the first, and put one end of it under the opposite armpit, whence it was carried across the breast over the compress and fracture, then down behind the shoulder and arm, and after having passed under the elbow, upwai-d on the breast. Desault next brought it across to the sound shoulder, under and round which he passed it, for the purpose of fixing the first turn. He then conveyed the roller across the back, brought it over the compresses, carried it down in front of the shoulder and arm, under the elbow, and obliquely behind the back to the armpit, where the application began. The same plan was repeated, until all the roller was spent. The apparatus was secured by pins, and the hand kept in a sling. Beyer's apparatus for fractured clavicles is more simple than that of Desault. The cushion is to be applied under the arm. The apparatus consists of a girdle of linen cloth, which passes round the trunk on a level with the elbow. It is fixed on by means of three straps and as many buckles. At an equal distance from its extremities are placed externally on each side two buckles, two before and two behind the arm. On the lower part of the arm is to be laced a piece of quilted cloth, five or six fingers broad. Foiur straps are attached to it which correspond to the buckles on the outside of the girdle, and serve both to keep the arm close to the trunk, and from moving either backward or forward. The principles of treatment inculcated by Desault are excellent; but his manner of band- aging the arm and shoulder is rather complicated, and in women, particularly inconvenient. We learn from Dr. Reese, that in the United States, till very latelj-, fractured clavicles were almost universally treated on Desault's plan, "When the bandage was properly applied, it was found, indeed, adequate to fulfil all the necessary indications ; but its complexity, its liability to be deranged, and the pressure it made upon the mamma: in female patients, rendered a substitute for it in many cases desirable. In 1816, Dr. S, H. Coale, of Baltimore, therefore invented an ap- paratus which, in his hands, was entirely success- ful in bad cases of oblique fracture of the clavicle. It was made of leathern straps and buckles, per- forming tlie triple purposes for which 'Desault s bandage was adapted ; "and its simplicity as well as permanence, together with its adaptJition to female patients, has brought it into general use in the southern states of the Union. An improvement Desault's mode of applying the bandage has on