214 the carotid was tied, the truth of the explanation seems doubtful. The palsy afterwards nearly sub- sided. This case did not terminate, however, in a cure ; for he led a very irregular life, and the tumor, ■which had been stationary, began to increase, and another tumor made its appearance on the other side of the sternum. " If I were to hazard an ' opinion (says Mr. Evans), I should be disposed to affirm, that the operation succeeded in arresting the disease for a time, and that, under more fa- vourable circumstances, that time might have been prolonged : but the patient's return to his usual irregular habits, and the fatigue and exercise his avocations necessarily led him into, excited the disease in the lower portion of the mnommata, or, perhaps, in the aorta itself ; for the original tumor is yet easily distinguished from the later enlarge- ments." Of course, until the time for a i»si mo>- iem examination arrives, this case must be attended with obscurity. The following are some of the particulars of the case, in which Dr. Mott, of New York, tied the carotid artery for an aneurism ot the innominata. The patient, Moses R. Gardner, aged fifty-one, a farmer of sound constitution and good habits of life, about three years before he con- sulted this gentleman, while occupied ui removing a building, was attacked with pain m the upper and back part of the neck. This afterwards ex- tended to the right shoidder and arm, but, m time, partially subsided, and his voice became hoarse. About eighteen months before he consulted Mr. Mott, he discovered a small swelling at the upper part of the breast-bone, but did not at first remark any throbbing in it. Dr. Mott found above the sternum, a pulsating tumor, about the size o a Diaeon's egg, spreading some distance under the clavicular aSd sternal portions of the right sterno- mastoideus, in the course of the subclavian artery, and extending as low down as the second rib, compressing the bronchial tubes, and producing, on the least coughing or exercise, a wheezing, not unlike that of asthma. The patient shrunk from the least pressure upon it, complaining of impeded respiration, followed by pain ; its pulsations were synchronous with those of the heart, and decidedly aneurismal. ,. ,1. x „f 1,:= After fully explaining to him the nature of his disease and its probable fatal termination should it be left to itself, Dr. Mott advised him to return to his home, to avoid all exertion, to be occa- sionally bled, and to confine himself principally to a vegetablediet; but, should he observe the least increase, either in the tumor or any of his symp- toms, to apply again. In a few months he again came to New York. Dr. Mott now found that the tumor above the sternum had much increased and, upon a careful application of the stethoscope, that it had evidently encroached more upon t le chest. The brtiit de souffict could be heard ; the thoracic viscera were sound, and the respiratory murmur distinct. In either speaking, walking, or coughing, respiration was very much impeded, and almost entirely suspended by the least pressure upon the tumor. The action of the right carotid was more feeble than that of the left, and no pul sation could be felt in its branches; the riglit sub- clavian external to the scaleni muscles, was natural, while the axillary and brachial arteries could hardly be felt; and at the wrist no pulse could be distinguished; but the pulsations of the arteries of the left side were natural. The general health was good. ANEURISM. Dr. Mott was persuaded the aneurism was one of the arteria innominata, involving the subclavian and the root of the carotid, and he considered it a proper case for the operation proposed and suc- cessfully performed by Mr. Wardrop. From the evident interruption of the circulation in the right arm, and the apparent efforts of nature to effect a • spontaneous cure, he determined to tie the carotid first, and afterwards the subclavian, should it be required. " On the 20th Sept. the artery was taken up in the usual manner. 27th, 9 a.m. Slept well, and feels refreshed ; thinks there is more room, as he expresses it, in breathing; complains of a little soreness of the tonsils ; pulse 58, regular and tran- quil ; the skin natural; pulsation and size of the tumor evidently diminished. 9 p.m. Much more restless; pulse 68, and tense; in other respects the same as in the morning; being habituated to lau- danum, was permitted to take a teaspoonful. 28th, 9 A.M. Slept well; breathes more easily; feels less of the pulsation in the tumor ; pulse 63, and not so tense ; skin natural, and cough less. Or- dered a dose of magnesia and Epsom salts. 9 p.m. Has passed a comfortable day. His wife, who arrived from the country since the morning, ex- pressed her surprise at the improvement in his voice and breathing, as well as at the difference in the beating. Pulse of the right radial artery very distinct, but intermitting fi-'om ten to fifteen beats; in the left arm 80, and stronger ; coughs frequently, and expectorates freely ; skin natural ; tongue a little white; salts have not operated. Ordered the dose to be repeated ; and if restless after its operation, to take his usual anodyne, 29th. Saluted Dr. Mott this morning with a full and fine voice, and said he was well enough to call on him. His cough and expectoration much less. Dr. Mott found him lying down, and breathing quietly ; pulse 71, and regular. The radial artery of the right arm beating as last evening, with fewer intermissions, but of longer continuance; skin over the tumor more wrinkled ; pulsation less and weaker. The ligature came away on the night of the 15 th, and the Umior above the slenitnn, and ptdsation, entinhj had disappeared; the cough and breathing better ; voice nearly natural; pulse 60, with now and then a very faint pulsation of the right radial artery ; right hand a ittle swelled, and numbed. 22nd. Wound has just healed ; weakness of the arm considerable; fingers very thick and clumsy; whole arm swelled, and pus upon pres- sure • no pulse in the right radial artery; breath- ing easy; cough and expectoration much less; can sleep easy in any position, which he has not f been able to do for many months. 26th Left town , for his residence in New Jersey." Ihis patient i) died seven months after the operation, [Three distinct modifications of the distal opera- tion have been practised for the cure of aneurism f the innominita. 1. The ligature of Ae sub- clavian only. 2. The ligature of the carotid on i- 3. Of both vessels, with an interval of greater* °'¥lTe"gates of the subclavian o,,ly,in.the third pan of its course, for the cure of aneurism . of the'innominata, has been Fact.sed m thr^ es^ only. Of these, two proved fatal, ^" j"";" ™ was partially successful, owing, probably, to the carotid being occluded by disease. The ligature of the carotid only has been prac tiscd in eight cases, and in one instance only does