ANEURISM Ii aneurisms, when produced Ly a wound or punc- ture, are of course from the first attended with a division of all the coats of the vessel. This form of the disease is often seen at the bend of the arm, where the artery is exposed to injury in venesec- tion. (See Hemokrhage.) In this circumstance, ns soon as the puncture is made, the blood gushes ont with unusual force, and in a bright scar- let, irregular, interrupted current; flowing out, however, in an even, and less rapid stream, when pressure is applied higher up than the wound. These last are the most decisive marks of the artery being opened; for blood may issue from a vein with great rapid itj-, and in a broken current, when the vessel is turgid, and situated immediately over the artery, which imparts its motion to it. The surgeon endeavours precipitately to stop the hemorrhage by pressure, and in general a diftised false aneurism is the result. The external wound in the skin is closed, so that the blood cannot escape; but this does not hinder it from passing into the cellular substance. The swelling, thus produced, is uneven, often knott_v, and extends upward and downward along the track of the vessel. Tlie pulsation is more feeble than that of a true aneurism, and is sooner lost. The skin Js also usually of a dark purple colour. The swelling increases, as long as the internal he- morrhage continues ; and if this should proceed beyond certain bounds, mortification of the limb ensues. Such is tlie diffused false anetirism from a wound ; a case which Lisfranc regards only as an extravasation of arterial blood, and rehictantly classes with aneurism at all. {De I'ObUieration des Arlh-es dans le Traitement dcs Aneurismes, p. 6.) The circumseribed false aneurism, from a wound or puncture, arises in the following manner. When proper pressure has been made in the first instance, so as to suppress the hemorrhage, but the bandage has afterwards been removed too soon, or before the artery has healed, the blood passes through the unclosed wound, or that which It has burst open again, into the cellular substance. As this has now become agglutinated by the pre- ceding pressure, the blood cannot diffuse itself into Its cells, and, consequently, a mass of it col- lects in the vicinity of the aperture of the arterv, and distends the cellular substance in the form of a sac. Sometimes, though not often, the cir- cumscribed false aneurism originates immediately after the opening is made in the artery. This chiefly happens when the aperture in the vessel is exceedingly small, and, consequently, when the hemorrhage takes place so slowly that the blood, which IS first eftused, coagulates, and prevents the entrance of that which follows into the cavities of the cellular substance, and, of course, its diffusion. A traumatic false aneurism differs materially from one which has taken place spontaneously, or as a consequence of disease; for, in the latter, the artery is generally unsound for some distance above and below the tumor. In the aneurism from a wound, the artery is perfectly sound, except inasmuch as the injury is concerned, and no effort is yet made by nature to obliterate the artery below or beyond the aneurism, which frequently takes place, when an aneurism occurs from disease. There are also other important differences in relation to the collateral circulation aiid the requisite surgical operation. (See O'ul/irie, On lite Diseases of Arteries, p. n2.) 145 In aneurism, the separation of the external from the middle coat of an artery is generally effected with difficulty; the external coat be- comes stretched and distended, and an aneurismal tumor is formed. To this, however, there are a few uncommon exceptions ; for the blood may be forced along the artery, separating the external and middle coats from each other, and forming a pouch several inches in length, which may or may not completely surround the vessel. In one case, reported by Mr. Guthrie, it formed a pouch on the anterior part of the descending aorta, about six inches in length, extending to the sides, and in one place nearly surrounding it. A horizontal fissure, about half an inch in extent, near the upper part of the swelling, allowed the blood to pass through the inner and middle coats, and to effect this separation, xcMch, as Mr. Guthrie ob- serves, cotild only have arisen from disease pre- viously existing in the part. (See Guthrie, On Bis. of Arteries, ]). 40.) Laeiinec gave an account of a very similar, but of a more extensive case of this kind, in a person who was not suspected during life to have disease of the heart or arteries. (Be fAuscult. t. ii. p. 700.) Mr. Guthrie also met with a third example, which is the preparation No. 368 A. in the Museum of the College of Surgeons. Just below the point where the innominata is given off, the inner and middle coats are ruptured alon<r half the circle of the aorta, as cleanly as if cut vvith a knife. The effused blood has separated the outer from the fibrous coat down to the orin-in of the aorta. The separation is also continued alo'no- the descending aorta for an inch beyond the left subclavian, and the interval filled with blood. Ihe arteria innominata had in the front half of It another transverse rent in all its coats, where the hemorrhage took place which killed the patient. The descending portion of the aorta, and the roots of the great vessels, are covered with atheromatous patches and in part with bony scales. The coats were al easily separable, and softer and more rea^d^ly broken than natural. (^Guthrie, op. cit. Cases of the foregoing description are sometimes termed dissecting aneurisms (vide ante, p 149) of which the late Mr. Sliekelton described one modi- fication, not previously noticed by any other pa- thologist, and the peculiarity of which was tint after the blood had forced its way through the inner and middle coats of the vessel, it not onlv detached the middle from the outer coat to the extent of four inches, but then forced its way into the canal of the artery again, through the middle and inner coats: thus two channels existed for the passage of the blood In the end, the form- ation of the new passage led to the obliteration of the original one, or corresponding portion of th^ arternil tube. (See Dublin 4,^.^X4 Fon,MATiON or ANEunisMs. If the doctrines of Scarpa, published in 1004 had proved correct, the grand distinction of a "t' rmn nno true nnd false must have been ih 1 as erroneous : "for," says he. after a ve,w c the"! '- '""r'^''[ '"[-'iK'^'-"'' instituted on the bodies of those who have died of intern-.] 01- external aneurisms, I have ascertained, in the most certain and unequivocal manner, that there I' oily one kind or form of this disease, vi/,. that