52 AMPUTATION and, indeed, in many others, shall be wounded, or cut across, and the local inflammation be so slight as to obtain little attention. On the third or fourth day, the patient shows his toes dis- coloured, and complains of pain and coldness in the limb below the wound, the constitution begins to sympathise with the injury, and the surgeon probably thinks the case extraordinary. Perhaps he suspects the real state of the injury ; but is surprised that a wound of the femoral or popliteal artery, with so little attendant injury, could cause mortification, &c. He is anxious to do something; but mortification, or at least gangrene, having commenced, he must, according to general rule, await the formation of the line of separation. The temperature of the leg, a little above the gangrene, is good, perhaps higher than natural; he hopes it will not extend farther, and it probably does re- main stationary for a little time. At last, the parts originally afi'ected—the toes—become sphacelated, and gangrene quickly spreads up the leg as far as the wounded artery, by which time the patient dies." For the purpose of preventing such a disaster, where the artery, or artery and vein, have been di- vided, Mr. Guthrie recommends the performance of amputation as soon as the gangrene is perceived to extend beyond the toes : and the swelling and slight attendant inflammation, which is marked more by the tumefaction than the redness of the part, has passed higher up than the ankle. (See Gullirie on Gunshot Wounds, p. GO, 61.) Mortification of a limb, after operation for aneu- rism, is another exception to the general rule of not amputating till the mortification has stopped. Where also grangrene arises from the obstruction of the circulation, by an aneurism bursting, and its blood passing copiously into the cellular tissue of the limb, amputation should be performed without delay, though the mortification may not have stop- ped. An example of the success of this practice, I have laid before the profession. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvi.) 5. Diseased Joints. Excluding from present consideration the pro- posal to undertake the excision of some joints which are in particular states of injury, or disease, I may observe, that scrofulous joints, with diseased bones, and distempered ligaments and cartilages, is an- other case in whicli amputation may become ab- solutely necessary. As Mr. Pott remarks, there is one circumstance attending this complaint, often rendering it particularly unpleasant, which is, tliat the subjects are most frequently young children, so as to be incapable of determining for themselves : which inflicts a distressing task on their nearest re- lations. All the efforts of physic and surgery often prove absolutely ineffectual, not only to cure, but even to retard the disease in question. Not- withstanding many cases admit of cure, numerous others do not. The disease often begins in the very inmost recesses of the celhilar texture of the heads of the bones forming the large articulations, such as the hip, knee, ankle, and elljow ; the bones become diseased in a manner which will be ex- plained in the article Joints, sometimes with great pain and symptomatic fever ; sometimes with little of either, at least in the beginning. The cartilages covering the ends of these bones, and designed lor the mobility of these joints, are totally destroyed ; the epiphyses in young subjects are either partially, or totally separated from the said bones ; the liga- ments of the joints are sj thickened and spoiled bj' the distemper, as to lose all natural appearance, and become quite unfit for all the purposes for which they were intended : the parts appointed for the secretion of the synovia, become distempered in like manner. All these together furnish a large quantity of stinking sanious matter, which is dis- charged either through artificial openings, made for the purpose, or through small ulcerated ones. These openings commonly lead to bones which are diseased through their whole texture. When the disease has got into this state, the constant pain, irritation, and discharge bring on hectic symptoms of the most destructive kind, such as total loss of appetite, rest, and strength, profuse night sweats, and as profuse purgings, which foil all the efforts of medicine, and bring the patient to the brink of destruction. (See Pott on Amputation.) In these cases, amputation is attended with more success when performed late, than when under- taken at an early period, before the disease has made great advances. This is fortunate, as it aff'ords time for a fair trial of such remedies as are best calculated to check the progress of the dis- order. (See Joints.) Whenever the disease of a joint is likely to ter- minate in anchylosis, amputation should not be re- sorted to, as a cure will be eifected without it (See Anchylosis.) In deciding to amputate, or not, a great deal 'will depend upon the state of the patient's health, and his kind of constitution, as well as upon the condition of the joint itself. [The treatment of diseased joints by excision of the articular extremities of the bones, has of late years been adopted with signal success in many cases in which formerly the entire limb would have been sacrificed, and the number of amputations performed for this class of diseases has in conse- quence materially diminished. Nevertheless, there will always remain cases to which excision is in- applicable, and in which amputation may become absolutely necessary. When the disease com- mences in the bones, and when these are aftected for some distance from the articulation, so as to render it impossible to excise the whole disease without removing more than the articular ex- tremities of the bones ; when, also, the soft parts are extensively disorganised, and there are ab- cesses and sinuses extending upwards and down- wards along the limb ; when it is not probable that the patient will have sufficient strength to support him through the protracted effort of repair that excision will demand from him ; or when the constitutional symptoms are such as to render it necessary to remove speedily and completely the source of irritation by whicli his life is endangered, in all such cases, amputation is the alternative which must still be resorted to, and the injudicious employment of excision would only serve to bring undeserved discredit on one of the most valuable improvements which have been introduced into modern surgery.] G. Necrosis. Another distemper, sometimes producing a ne- cessity for amputation, is necrosis, or the deatli oi the whole, or of a considerable part, of the bones of the extremities, accompanied with such exten- sive abscesses, sucli disease of the soft parts, sucli