318 BLADDER The symptoms resemble somewhat those difficult. of calculus: there is irritability of the bladder ; pain in passing water ; sometimes complete reten- tion from the tumor obstructing the urethral orilice ; after a time inflammation of the bladder and in- creased mucous secretion, and occasional hcematuria. These symptoms will generally lead to the intro- duction of a sound, when perhaps the tumor may be felt, and some idea may perhaps be formed from ma- nipulation with the sound of its size, situation, and consistence. The softness would usually serve to distinguish it from stone ; tumors of the bladder, however, have been observed to become incrusted with urinary deposits ; and in such a case, it seems almost impossible to avoid falling into error. The possible co-existence of calculus with a tumor in the bladder also deserves to be remem- bered. Desault once, after the extraction of a stone, recognised in the bladder a pediculated tumor, and extracted it with the forceps. The patient recovered. A distinction between innocent and malignant tumors must often be impossible. Malignancy may be inferred if the bleeding is copious and frequent ; if the tumor increases rapidly in size, and if the patient's health rapidly suifers. Such a suspicion would be confirmed, if, on examining the urine, some of the ddbris of the tumor con- taining the cells peculiar to the cancerous tissue could be discovered. The treatment of tumors of the bladder can seldom be more than palliative. Any attempt at extir- pation is seldom advisable, even in non-malignant tumors; while, in malignant ones, it would be worse than useless. Instances, however, are not alto- gether wanting in which non-malignant tumors have been successfully attacked by surgical treatment.] Mr. Warner has recorded a case, in which an excrescence growing from the inside of a young woman's bladder was successfully removed. Mr. Warner, upon examining the parts with his forefinger, introduced into the meatus urinarius, discovered a considerable tumor, which seemed to be of a fleshy substance, and took its rise from the lower part of the bladder, near its neck. When the patient strained to make water, and the blad- der was full, the excrescence protruded a little way out of the meatus urinarius ; but, upon ceasing to strain, it presently returned. He then hindered it from returning into the bladder by passing a liga- ture through it, and endeavoured to draw it fur- ther out, which was found impracticable. Seeing this, Mr. Warner dilated the meatus urinarius on the right side, by cutting it upwards, about half way towards the neck of the bladder, when, by pulling the swelling forwards, he was enabled to tie its base, which was very broad. For three days a good deal of pain was felt in the abdomen. On the sixth day, the tumor dropped off. From the first da)% the urine came away without assist- ance, and the patient perfectly recovered. The tumor resembled a turkey's egg in shape and size. ( yVar}ier''s Cases in Surgery, edit. 4, p. 303.) [M. Civiale seized a polypoid tumor of the bladder between the blades of a lithotrite. The instrument was closed, and the tumor broken down. This operation was not attended with much pain ; there was a slight flow of blood, and during the day the tumor, in a state of disintegration, escaped with the urine. But another tumor of the same nature was discovered : this was seized in the same manner ; it remained in the gripe of the in- strument and was brought away with it. This patient recovered. (See Civiale, Traili ties Mala- dies (les Orgaiios Genilo-Urmaires, Paris, 1851, tom. iii. p. 171.)] For a further account of tumors of the bladder, the reader is referred to J. Ilowsliip, On Complaints affecting the Secretion and Excretion of Urine, 8vo. Loud. 1823 ; Coulson, On the Diseases of tlie Bladder and Prostate Gland, London, 1852 ; Ci- viale, Traite. des Maladies dcs Organes Genito- Urinaires, Paris, 1851 ; Nelaton,Elem. de Pathol. Clur. t. V. Paris, 1858. Bladder, Wound.s op. Sword wounds, and those made by a bayonet or lance, may injure some part of the bladder, or even pass through both sides of this organ. In the latter case, the injury is usually fatal, as tlie urine escapes from the inner wound into the abdomen, and immediately excites mortal inflam- mation. Baron Larrey dressed on the field of battle several soldiers whose bladders were thus completely transfixed, and who all perished of in- flammation and gangrene within thefirst fortj^-eight hours. However, he observes, that if the weapon enter the bladder at that part of its fundus which is not covered by the peritoneum, the case is curable, unless complicated with too much in- ternal hemorrhage. The surest criterion of these cases is the escape of the urine from the external wound ;' and its discharge may be either momentary'-, occasional, or continual ; differences to be accounted for by the situation of the wound, and the changes which happen in the bladder. When the bladder is full, and its upper part is pierced, the urine will issue only just at the moment of the accident, and as soon as it is discharged the edges of the wound will come together, and may permanently close ; especially if the urine can pass freely through the natural channel. But when this favourable condition is absent, the bladder becomes enor- mously distended again, the wound is opened anew, and the urine -discharged once more from the external opening. The same things might happen if one were to withdraw too soon the elastic gum catheter which has been introduced, and by intro- ducing the instrument again the urine might be diverted from the wound, and its natural course re established. Lastly, Larrey observes, that, when the wound is situated at one of the lowest points of the bladder, the discharge of urine may be incessant, and be of more or less duration. When the tract of these punctured wounds is extensive and not direct, .abscesses form at dill'erent points where the urine passes. These abscesses Larrey directs to be immediately opened, and their recurrence prevented by the introduction of an elastic gum catheter through the urethra; one of the chief means of relief in all wounds of the bladder. Together with this treatment, he re- commended frequent clysters, and sometimes cup- ping in the vicinity of the wound, or bleedmg. (See Mem. de Chir. Mil. t iv. p. 28G, 287.) The subject of wounds of the bladder is further discussed in the article Gunshot WouND.e. [The bladder is not unfrequently wounded by spicula of bone in eases of fractured pelvis Such an accident is more serious than a wound ot the bladder from without. In fact, there being