5-2S DISLOCATION, bone is necessarily moved in the opposite direction, tou-iirds the glenoid cavity, into vi'liich it slips witli more or less facility. Thus operated the machine, so celebrated among the ancients and moderns, imder the name of the amhe of Hippocrates ; whe- ther used exactly in the form described by him, or with the modifications devised by Paul of ^!{ina, Ambrose Pare, Duverney, Freke, &c. Extension removes the bone from its unnatural situation, and has been executed in different ways. Sometimes, the weight of the body on one side, and the dragging of the end of the dislocated bone on the other, tend to produce this effect. Such was the action of the ladder, door, &c. described in Hippocrates's Treatise on Fractures, and re- peated in modern viiorks. Sometimes, the trunk is fixed in an unchangeable manner, while the arm is extended, as is practised in employing the machine of Oribasius, one of the methods formerly adopted in public places, where wrestlers com- bated. Sometimes no extension is sensibly exe- cuted ; and while the end of the humerus is pushed outward by a body placed under the axilla, the surgeon pushes it upward into the glenoid cavity. The following are the objections common to all these contrivances:—However well covered the body placed under the axilla may be, to serve as a fulcrum, there is always a more or less incon- venient chafing, frequently dreadful stretching and laceration of parts, in consequence of its applica- tion, when the trunk is suspended upon it, as in the instance of the door, &c. In this way. Petit saw a fracture of the neck of the humerus pro- duced, and even a laceration and aneurism of the axillary artery. Desault often employed the following method : — While the patient was seated upon a chair of moderate height, he took hold of the hand on the affected side, placed it between his knees, which he moved downvvard and backward, in order to make the extension and disengage the head of the bone, while an assistant held back the trunk to effect the counter-extension. This was sometimes executed by the weight of the body, and effort of tlie patient. At the same time, the surgeon's hands were applied to the arm, in such a way, that the four fingers of each were put in the hollow of the axilla, and the thumbs on the outer part of the arm, which being pushed upward, and a little outward, the head of the humerus usually returned with ease into its natural cavity. Petit describes this plan, but combined with tlie use of a napkin, passed under the patient's axilla, and over the surgeon's neck, who raises the dis- located end of the bone, by extending his head. When the luxation downward was very recent, Desault occasionally reduced it by a still more simple process ; namely, by placing his left hand under the axilla, to serve as a fulcrum, while with the right, applied to tlie lower and outer part of the arm, he depressed the humerus towards the trunk, and at the same time raised the upper part of the bone. The head of the humerus, directed upward and outward by this double motion, re- turned into the glenoid cavity without the least resistance. Reduction, by means of the surgeon's heel in the patient's axilhi, is commended by Sir Astlcy Cooper as tlie best in three-fourths of recent dis- locations. The patient (he oliserves) should bo placed in the recumbent posture, upon a table, or a sofa, and near its edge. "The surgeon then binds a wetted roller round the aim, immediately above the elbow, upon which he ties a handker- cliief. Then, with one foot resting on tlie floor he separates the patient's elbow from his side, and places the heel of his other foot in the axilla, receiving the head of the humerus upon it, whilst he himself is in the sitting posture by the pa- tient's side." The arm is then steadily drawn with the handkerchief for three or four minutes, at the end of which the bone in common cases is easily replaced. If more force be required, a long towel can be used, which several persons may pull. Sir Astley Cooper generally bends the fore- arm nearly to a right angle with the os humeri, because this position relaxes the biceps, and lessens its resistance: in many cases, however, he makes the extension at the wrist ; a plan, in which he finds more force requisite, but the bandage is less apt to slip. [Mr. Skey thus explains the mechanism of the reduction by means of the heel in the axilla. " It should be constantly kept in mind," he ob- serves, " that the shoulder-joint has this peculiarity in its construction, viz. that it is composed of two bones, each of which is movable on the trunk, and that, in the act of extension, we not only affect the position of the bone we are extending, but, through the agency of the muscles connecting them, we also affect the relations of the bone we are extending from; and in the case of the hu- merus and scapula, that the agents of extension do affect both bones, cannot be doubted.'" Fixing the scapula he considers useless and objectionable, since by doing so, " we retain the glenoid cavity in a direction looking straight outwards from the trunk ; but if we leave the scapula untouched, then by the act of drawing down the humerus, we depress at the same time the acromion, by means of the deltoid which is attached to both. The consequence is, that in depressing the acromion, we direct the soekel of the hone towards the dislocated Itead, and readily get rid of the obstacle, which is often immediately caused by the rim of the glenoid cavity alone, and we bring the two surfaces of bone within the range of what I may call their na- tural affinity, and by the agency of which they immediately coalesce. With the heel in the axilla, we make a simple extension of the arm from the wrist ; we leave the scapula unfettered, to assume its own direction ; and by the extending force, slightly as it is applied by one person only, the scapula is made to revolve on its centre throutjh the leverage exercised on the acromion hy the deltoid; and the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, being this relaxed, exercise no prejudicial influence on the movements of the humerus. I have seen the protracted efforts of pulleys, drawing outwards, fail again and again, with the utmost effort, when the head of the bone has been restored to the glenoid cavity, by the single agency of one person subse- quently placing his heel in the axilla." {Skei/, Op. Sun/, p. 80.)] _ 1 • 1 o- Another simple mode of reduction, which Sir Astley Cooper considers proper for recent dis- locations, delicate females, and very old, relaxed, emaciated persons, is that by means of the sur- geon's knee, as a fulcrum, in the patient's axilla. The patient is placed on a low chair, on the side of which the surgeon rests his foot, while lie takes hold of the os humeri just above the condyles,