AMPUTATION. 74 be left hanging out at the two extremities of the wound. But when a ligature is situated in the centre of the wound, it is best to bring it out be- tween tlie sutures, at the nearest part of the sur- face ; otherwise its running across one half the wound to get at either angle would create a great deal of unnecessary irritation and suppuration. Baron Dupuytren, and M. Roux declare their preference to the method of bringing out all the ligatures at the lower angle of the wound; the benefit of having them brought out thus low, so as to keep up a drain for any pus that may form, being in their opinion greater than that of arrang- ing them at the points of the wound nearest to them. {Mem. sur la Reunion de la Plaie apres I'Amp. p. 12.) Dupuytren, who only approved of endeavouring to procure union by the first inten- tion at every point, when amputation had been performed without delay, for a gunshot wound or other bad accident, on a person otherwise health}', used in all cases to leave the lower part of the wound unclosed. Here he brought out the ends of the ligatures well twisted together into a single cord; and, for the purpose of still farther insuring an outlet for the pus, if the cord was small, he oc- casionally introduced a small cylinder of charpie into the posterior angle of the incision; for as it was his custom, after circular amputation of the thigh, to bring the sides of the wound partly to- gether (see Lefons Orales, S,'o. p. 416), so as to render the line of it transverse, I infer that he se- lected the inner angle of the incision as the outlet for the discharge and the place for the cord of liga- tures. As Dr. Hennen observes, the reducing the im- moderate size of ligatures, the separating the threads of which they were composed, and placing them at convenient points along the face of the stump, or wound, and the actual removal of one half of each ligature, were amendments very slowly made; "but," says he, "an improvement which appears to me of great consec[uence was the last of introduction, and is now the slowest of adoption, although, the artery once secured and the value of adhesion duly acknowledged, it is the most obvious of all. I allude to the plan of removing the ends of the ligature altogether, and thus leaving to an extensive wound the greatest possible chance of immediate union." The first printed mention of this practice, as far as Dr. Hennen's investigations have discovered, was in a letter written by Mr. Haire, dated Southminster, Essex, Nov. 1786. "The ligatures," says this gentleman, "some- times became troublesome, and retarded the cure. An intimate friend of mine, a surgeon of great abilities, proposed to cut the ends of them off close to the knot, and thus leave them to themselves. By fullowincj this plan, we have seen stumps healed in the course of ten days. 2'lie short ligature, thus left in, commonly made its ivay out by a sjmill op)ening in a short time, without any trouble, or the patient being sensible of pain. (See Land. Med. Jotim. vol. vii.) Certainly, considering the thick- ness of the ligatures in use at the above period, this testimony of the success of the method, as Dr. Hennen remarks, is very satisfactory. {Principles of MiUiary Surgery, p. 101, ed. 2.) In a letter received by me from Mr. Dunn, surgeon at Scar- borough, and dated June 3, 1819, he tells me, "My predecessor, Mr. J. Wilson, the late partner of Mr. Travis, amputated a limb in 1792 or 1793, and cut off the ligatures close to tlie arteries, and no trouble ensued. He did this at the recommend- ation of Dr. Balcombe, of York, who had seen the method practised on the Continent." In Septem- ber, 1813, Dr. Hennen, who was serving with the array in Spain, began the adoption of this plan, which, he expected, would not only prove useful in promoting immediate union, but in ob- viating any accidental violence to the ligatures, and the wrong interference of the younger dressers in trying to pull them away. Between September and January, thirty-four cases were treated in this way without any inconvenience following, or the small particles of silk left behind giving rise to any apparent irritation. Dr. Hennen also pre- sented to Sir J. M'Grigor some of the small circles of silk, a part of which had come away with the dressings, while others had floated out on opening the little pustules, which formed over the face of the stump at the points where the arteries had been tied. Some few of the ligatures never made their appearance, and the patients complained of no uneasiness whatever. Convinced of the utility of the method. Dr. Hennen afterwards published an account of it. (See Lond. Med. Repository, vol. iii. p. 177, and vol. v. p. 221.) This gentle- man subsequently found that Dr. Maxwell, of Dumfries, had adopted the plan as far back as 1798; and Dr. Ferguson, who was at Stockholm during the peace of Amiens, saw it also then fol- lowed by some of the surgeons of that city, with- out any ill effects. {He?inen^s Military Surgery, p. 175—178. ed. 2.) In July, 1814, Mr. Law- rence communicated to the Medical and Chirur- gical Society of London, some cases and observa- tions highly in favour of the practice ; and the particularity which he lays much stress upon, is using for the purpose minute firm ligatures, com- posed of what is called dentist's silk ; a material which has been previously recommended by Dr. M'Sweeney in one of the volumes of the Edi7i. Med. and Surgical Journ. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vi. p. 156.) In a paper of later date, he says, his further experience had confirmed the usefulness of the method ; " that this plan, by diminishing irritation and inflammation, and sim- plifying the process of dressing, materially promotes the comfort of the patient, and the convenience of the surgeon, while it has not produced ill conse- quences, or any unpleasant effect, in the cases which have come under his own observation." According to Mr. Lawrence, the small knots of silk generally separate eai'l)', and come away \yith the discharge ; where the integuments have united by the first intention, the ligatures often come out rather later, with very trifling suppuration; and, in some instances, they remain quietly in the part. (Op. cit. vol. viii. p. 490.) When this plan is tried, single strong threads and silk, or rather the kind of ligature which will he described in another place (see Ligature), should be employed : for, otherwise, the knots would be large, and likely to create suppuration and future trouble. The practice was tried by Delpech at Montpellier ; but it is not explained whether he used single threads, or silk, or whether any inconveniences resulted from the method. (See Relation d'un Voyage fait a Londrcs en 1814, oit Para/lelo de la Chirurgic Angtaisc <"•<'<'• '« Chirurgic Franqaisc, par P. J. Rou.r, 8vo. 1815.) Yet candour requires me to state that the method