some contrivance to protect them from external in- jury. {Si/slem. Chir. Ilodieriice, \o\. ii. p. 513, 514, ed. IfiOO.) When the ossificntlon of the sutures in children is late, tlie cerebellum, as well as the cerebrum, is liable to protrusion. In 1!!13, two such cases occurred at Paris.. In one, Professor Lallement mistook the disease for a common tumor, and commenced an operation for its removal, when, after making some of the necessary incisions, his proceedings were stopped by his seeing the white silvery colour of the dura mater, and that the swelling came out of an aperture in the occipital bone. The day after the operation the child was seized with violent pain in the head, had a hard pulse, prostration of strength, vomiting, &c., and died in the course of a week. On dissection, a part of the tentorium, and an elongation of the two lobes of the cerebellum, about as large as a nut, were found in the protruded sac of the dura mater. Several abscesses were also discovered in the substance of the cerebellum. The other ex- ample fell under the observation of M. Balfos: upon the death of the child, the dissection evinced similar appearances. (JRicherand, Nosot/rapMe Chir.t ii. p. 319, ed. 4.) Such facts should teach the surgeon to be par- ticularly cautious in ascertaining the nature of tumors about the back part of the head, before he ventures to attempt their removal. The second kind of congenital encephalocele is that in which not only large portions of the cranium, but also more or less of the integuments of the head, are deficient. It is rather to be re- garded as a malformation than a disease; and, in- deed, in most instances, the infants are still-born. The case sometimes consists of the protrusion of most of the brain through the inferior and poste- rior fontanelliB, so that the child is born with a largish bag, on the back of its head, hanging down over the posterior part of the neck. Several speciroens of these malformations, taken from in- fants born in the Hospice de la Maternite, are preserved in the museum of the Faculte de Me'- decine at Paris. (Rioherand, Nosogr. Chir. t. ii. p. 316, ed. 4.) In the year 1810, a remarkable case of this last description of congenital hernia cerebri was published by Dr. Burrows. " The whole of the forehead, summit, and a great part of the occiput, were deficient; and in lieu of them a substance projected of a light mulberry colour, and of the mushroom form, except that it was proportionably broader. From the deficiency of bone, the eyes appeared to project much more than usual. Tlie cliild lived six days without either taking sustenance, or having any evacuation." On dissection, the scalp, the os frontis, the parietal, and a great part of the occipital bones, were want- ing. Through the parts, at which these bones were deficient, the cerebrum projected, exhibiting ■ its usual convolutions. It was covered with the pia mater; was of a mulberry colour; appeared to be more vascular than the pia mater usually is ; and the edge of the licalp adhered to the nock of the tumor. The cerebellum was not more than one-fourth of its usual size, for the posterior part of the OS occipitis was much nearer to tlie sella turcica than natural. The child was destitute of the power of voluntary motion, and all the secre- tions appeared to be stopped. (See Rhd, Chir. Trans, vol. ii. p. 62.) mEUSIS. 1005 HERNIA HUMORALIS. Orchilis. In- flammation of the testicle, especially when pro- duced by irritation in the urethra, gonorrhcea, the use of bougies, &c. As the term is founded upon the exploded doctrine of the translation of humours from one part to another, the sooner its employ- ment is abandoned the better. The case is con- sidered under the word Testicle. HERPES. (From 'ipira, to creep.) The appel- lation, herpes, is limited " to a non-contagious vesicular disease, which, in most of its forms, passes through a regular course of increase, matu- ration, and decline, and terminates in about ten, twelve, or fourteen days. (See Skin,Diseases of.) [HETEROCHYMEUSIS. (From erepoy and X'Jl-i-iv(ns.) A foreign substance in the blood, or an excess of one or more of its normal constituents; This term is employed by F. Simon to designate morbidT conditions, in which materials, not belong- ing to the class of poisons, as sugar, oil, biliary pigment, blood pigment, amylaceous matter, and the like, are present in the blood, such substances being absent, or occurring in inappreciable or very minute quantities in health. {Animal Chemislry.) The term includes many of those diseases referred - by the elder humoral pathologists to an acrimonj' in the blood. Heterochj-meusis may arise — 1. From the in- gestion of substances foreign to the nutrition of the bod}% or of an excess of assimilable materials. In this case, for the most part, only minute portions, or only a small quantity in excess, is absorbed; the greater part being carried off by the intestinal canal. 2. From substances developed during pri- mary or secondary digestion, assimilation, and dis- integration. Many pathologists believe that sugar in glucohsemia is produced in the alimentary canal. Suits of lime are furnished to the blood in excess in caries. 3. From substances engendered in the blood itself, or in the blood-forming and transposing organs. Blood pigment, bile pigment in excess, and excess of white corpuscles have this origin. Thus acrimonies in the blood may be de- rived either from within or from without the body. The portions received into the blood are in some in- stances wholly or in part assimilated, neutralised, or oxidised, or they percolate in solution through the secreting organs. Totally unassimilable co- louring and odorous principles of numerous articles of food and of beverages, and various medicines, percolate the kidneys, skin, and lungs, and are rapidly removed without producing anj' injurious eff'ects. Grape sugar and glucose aie destro3-ed in the blood, unless in excess, when they are elimi- nated by the kidneys; cane sugar, on the other hand, is never destroj^ed, but always elimi- nated. When from any cause such substances are neither eliminated nor destroyed, they re- main as acrimonies, their cfi^ect on the organi- sation and functions of life depending on their mechanical and chemical qualities, and their re- lations to the vital fluids and structures. " The continuous ingestion of injurious articles of diet, or persistent diseases in definite organs, pro- duce permanent faulty conditions of the blood." ( Vivchow.) Such conditions maj affect the mor- phological elements, as where the red corpuscles are broken up and tlie pigment dillusid, or thoy may aflect the liquor sanguinis chcniically. In ilhistration.of the surgical importance of those acrimonies in the blood, numerous examples might