EAR. COS tion of the auditorj' nerve, they are moitly buried in great obscurity, and some of them probably depend upon con<;onital imperfection of the nerve, or brain itself. It seems, however, tliat a part of the causes to which we allude, act mechaniciilly, as an extravasation of blood, a steatoraa, or an exostosis; while others operate on the ear by sj'm- pathy, as is the case when deafness is produced by the presence of worms in the bowels. Mr. Saunders remarks, that all the diseases of the internal ear may be denominated nervous deafness; the term, in this sense, embracing every disease, the seat of which is in the nerve, or parts containing the nerve. Nervous deafness is attended with various complaints in different cases, noises in the head of sundry kinds, the murmuring of water, the hissing of a boiling kettle, rustling of leaves, blowing of wind, &c. Other patients speak of a beating noise corresponding with the pulse, and increased by bodily exertion, in the same degree as the action'of the heart, {Saunders, p. 47.) [This is a circumstance of very common occurrence, and is evidently produced by the pulsa- tions of the internal carotid artery being heard by the excited or erethistic auditory nerve.] According to tliis author, there is a syphilitic species of nervous deafness, attended with a sens- ation of some of the above peculiar noises; and one case is related, in which the hearing was com- pletely restored, in five weeks, by a mercurial course. Mr. Saunders relieved several cases of nervous deafness by confining patients to low diet, giving them calomel freely, repeated doses of sulphate of soda, or magnesia, sometimes twice, sometimes thrice, a week, or according to circumstances, and applying blisters behind the ears at intervals of a week. The plan requires perseverance. [Many cases of ankylosis of the stapes described by Mr. Toynbee have doubtless been confounded with those of nervous deafness.] Electricity has been highly recommended for the cure of nervous deafness, though the prospect of benefit from it must entirely depend upon the nature of the cause of the infirmity. It is allowed to be sometimes useful in cases of incomplete paralysis of the auditory nerve; but it cannot be of any service where the Eustachian tube, the cavity of the tympanum, or the mastoid cells, are obstructed. It is set down as hurtful, when the patients are very irritable, and subject to vertigo, bleeding from the nose, great determination of blood to the head, &c. {Diet, des Scicyices Med. t. xxxviii. p. 124.) The evidence in favour of the efficacy of galvanism, is still more scanty and questionable. [Electricity, in the modified forms of electro-galvanism, niagnetico-galvanism has been administered, and invariably with- out success when applied in the usual manner upon the surface of the neighbourhood of the ear. The writer has been in the habit of administering it through the Eustachian tube, using the catheter as one conductor, and applying the other in the external auditory canal, thus allowing but little more than the tympanum to intervene between the two conductors: and in a small minority of cases the practice appears to have l)i'cn attended with ad- vantage. Kramer has introduced the vapour of acetic ether in such cases, and he states with won- derful .success, though in the later editions of his work he aj)pears to have urged the practice less forcibly; many of his supposed instances of crethialic or excited auditory nerve were most probably cases ofmyringo-tj^mpanitis, or chronic affections of the nervous membrane itself. The writer not infre- quently injects a minute quantity of acetic ether, very largely diluted, into the cavity of the tym- panum, with, however, doubtful benefit.] Whether, in certain cases of deafness from torpor of the auditory nerve, the introduction of tonic injections into the cavity of the tympanum, through the Eustachian tube, will answer in the manner stated by a late writer, future experience must determine. {Diet, des Sciences Med. t. xxxviii. p. 120, 121.) The tincture of iodine, blisters, niercurj', and the external use of strychnia, are means often deserving a fair trial. This article, I think, may be usefully concluded with a few general, but sensible, observations on the various kinds of deafness, made hj a modern writer. According to Professor Rosenthal, all the disorders of the sense of hearing may be comprised under three principal forms. 1. Deafness (Surditas, CopJtosis), in which the faculty of hearing articulated sounds is completely annihilated. 2. Hardness of hearing {Dysoecia), in which this faculty is so diminished, that articulated sounds cannot be heard, without the assistance of a parti- cular apparatus. 3. Alteration, or diminution of hearing {Para- cusis), in which the faculty of hearing articulated sounds, in the natural way, is imperfect for want of precision. 1. Deafiiess, Rosenthal distinguishes into two degrees; the first of which is marked by an abso- lute impossibility of hearing at all; the second, by a power of still distinguishing certain sounds, as whistling, the vowels, &c. The first is usually congenital, and a cause of dumbness. ■ The discrimination of these two degrees, Rosen- thal considers of great importance in practice, and especially in institutions for the deaf and dumb; because the exceedingl)' fine sense of touch, with which dumb persons are sometimes gifted, is apt to be mistaken for the faculty of hearing. This fact is illustrated by some interesting experiments made by Pfingsten on deaf and dumb persons. ( Viclj'dhrii/e ErfaJmuHi iibcr die Gehoerfelder der Tanbslummeii, Kiel, 1802, p. 32.) A deaf and dumb girl, who was at needlework in a room near the house door, regularly gave notice whenever it was opened or shut. As the door was furnished with a little bell, which rang loud enouL'h when- ever the door moved to be plainly heard in the neighbouring room, and with the exception of this noise, no other impulse nor shock cnuld be distin- guished, Pfingsten was surprised at the circum- stance. Desirous of ascertaining how the girl really knew about the movements of the door, he caused the bell to be rung with great force without the door being opened: the child was perfectly unconscious of the noise. The bell was afterwards kept still, while a person opened and slnit the door so softly, that Pfingsten himself could not hear it; yet, the child instantly gave warning that some- body had entered. The inference was, that the chair, on which she sat, conmuuiicated to her legs and back a certain impulse, which made her con- scions of the motion of the door. The dissection of tlie cars of deaf and dumb per- sons has brought to light some facts, explanatory of