HEAD, INJURIES OF THE, puration; there was an extensive fracture through the orbital plates of the frontal bone, and it is not unlikely the brain may have been damaged at the time of the accident. With regard to the situation of abscess in the brain there is frequently much uncertainty ; most commonly the matter is found close to the original seat of injury, but in some cases it is much deeper than this, and it is occasionally found diametrically opposite to the part on which the blow was in- flicted. These circumstances, added to the obscii- nty frequently attending their formation, enhance materially the difficulty of diagnosing cerebral ab- scesses. As the signs of abscess, therefore, are by no means unerring, it would be rash to institute an exploring operation except in unequivocal cases especially as the matter may be accumulated at a very considerable distance from the surface of the brain, (Quesnay, Manoire de VAcadtmie de CMr V. 11. p. US.) The prognosis of cerebral abscesses the result of Jnjury must, from the nature of the organ aflfected be exceedingly unfavourable, and when they hap- pen from internal causes they are almost of necessity fatal. The cases, however, recorded by Petit, i^ouis, Quesnay, and others, offer abundant evi- dence that if a free outlet is given to the matter by the removal of bone, there may be ground for expecting a favourable termination. In some instances abscesses have been known to burst into the lateral ventricles, and under such circumstances death occurs at once. An in- stance of this has been already mentioned; and in the Journal de Medecinefoi 1830 Lallemnnd, Lerminier, and others record instances which illus- trate the same point. The tendency of matter in the brain is generally towards the surface as in other parts of the body (this IS often witnessed after the removal of bone by the trephine) : the unyielding dura mater pre- venting Its escape is therefore pushed up through the opening m the bone; the arachnoid cavity is shut out by a barrier of lymph, and if the dura mater is not punctured it becomes sloughy in appearance, and the matter escapes by small openings m the membrane. The surgeon should anticipate or at any rate favour the eiforts of nature, and by a free incision permit the ready exit of the matter. Unfortunately cerebral ab- scesses frequently co-exist with suppuration in the arachnoid cavity and purulent deposits in other parts of the body, so that but little success attends '"s."' treatment. Quesnay relates an instance in which Petit relieved a case of cerebral abscess by Ireely puncturing the dura mater after trephining, i be treatment was eventually successful, although the symptoms did not immediately subside, owing to the confinement of matter, which afterwards escaped. Two very similar cases occurred to Roux, ^Arc/nvcs Gen&rales, vol. xxiv. p. 81.) In the first the ordinary signs of suppuration of the brain had existed,and the trephine had been applied overa dis- easett piece of bone; the dura mater was punctured, ^nLflT f^T'^''^'^ = ^""'^ ^vas dissuaded from puncturing the brain. After death a large abscess was discovered ,„ the hemisphere. In L second case there had been a fistulous opening in the skull m the centre of the left parietal bone, by which a large quantity of sanies continued to escape; whenever this was stopped the patient ,„„„ • J V . -"t-i--" •.iiK piuienc questionable wnetner tuis conaition can uc x>.v-"o was seized with coma, but when the discharge re-1 nised during life as a distinct affection. So far as our curred his symptoms were immediately relieved. M. Roux removed a piece of bone with the tre- phine, and detected a fistulous orifice in the dura mater. He increased the opening in the mem- brane, and immediately a large quantity of matter escaped. As the abscess discharged its contents, the brain appeared depressed at this point; but in a few days the space became filled up, and the discharge gradually decreased in quantity. No hernia cerebri ■occurred, and the patient was eventually cured. But the abscess does not always reach the surface, and the surgeon may hesitate before he punctures the brain itself to give exit to matter, vvhich after all may be deep in the substance of the organ, and even in the opposite hemisphere : the urgency of the symptoms must be held as af- fording a justification for puncturing the brain m cases of doubt. Quesnay relates an interesting case of^ this description which occurred to De la Peyronie. A child had met with an injury to the head requiring the trepan; a considerable quantity of blood escaped which had been efl'used on the surface of the dura mater; the membrane was healthy, and the case was proceeding favourably until the twenty-eighth day, when convulsions and partial paralysis of the right side supervened, accompanied by stupor and loss of consciousness. The surgeon suspecting abscess made an opening in the dura mater, but discovered nothing beneath the membrane. The symptoms increasing, he was disposed to puncture the brain, but his opinion was overruled. The child died in a fit of convulsions, and on opening the head he discovered an abscess in the substance of the brain about three or four lines from the surface. A remarkable instance is recorded by Duduj'- tren {Lancette Franfaise, Oct. 14, 1830) of abscess in the brain consequent on a wound of the skull j by the point of a knife received some years beforei A sudden attack of stupor induced the friends to bring the patient to the Hotel-Dieu. Dupuytreri- incised the cicatrix and removed the point of the! knife; after this the trephine was applied, buti without any good effect. Dupuytren opened thel dura mater, and plunged a lancet into the henii-| sphere to the depth of an inch, and in this mannerf evacuated a large quantity of matter. He was led I to this somewhat bold procedure in consequence o{| the persistence of hemiplegia on the opposite side] of the body. In the evening tlie symptoms sub-l sided, the patient's speech and intelligence re- turned, and he eventually recovered. The advice given by Velpeau in doubtful cases j is judicious, and may be followed with advantage, namely, to wait where no matter is found after the I trephine has been used, if the symptoms are not j very urgent; the cyst then distended with pus,! and freed from all compression, Avould be pushed ] towards the opening by the expansion of the brain. The abscess could then be easily opened, and some advantage would be gained by the opportunity thus alTorded for adhesions to form between the opposed arachnoid surfaces, by which the tendency to meningitis would be obviated. (Velpeau, Do VOperation du Trepan, p. ST.)] Contusion op the Br-^in. [In all severe cases of concussion it is very prO" bable that the brain is bruised, but it is very questionable whether this condition can be recog- «: ^1 .3;.i:r» «A*.^..f;.^n finfarasour