the parts in contact, ensures a partial continuity upon the separation of the sphacelated part. The line of separation is the line of stricture. It com- mences on that side of the gut which is in direct contact with the stricture. As the separation ad- vances, the opposite adhering sides may perhaps recede somewhat, and a little enlarge the angle of union. But, it is ever afterwards an angle ; and where the peritoneum is deficient, the canal is simply covered in by granulations from the cellular membrane of the parietes, coalescing with those of the external or cellular surface of the perito- neum." (On the Process of Nature in repairing Injuries of the Intestines, p. 360.) It must be confessed, that few surgeons have entertained suffi- ciently accurate ideas of the changes which happen around the wounded or mortified portion of intes- tine, when an artificial anus is produced ; and though Desault's account was excellent, so far as it went, it was not until the year 1809, when Scarpa published his valuable work on Hernia, that the whole process of nature on such occa- sions was completely elucidated. The hernial sac (says he) does not always partake of gangrene with the viscera contained in a hernia ; and even when it does slough, since the separation of the dead parts happens on the outside of the abdo- minal ring, there almost always remains in this situation a portion of the neck of the hernial sac perfectly sound. It may be said, therefore, that, in all cases, immediately after the detachment of the mortified intestine, whether it happen within, or on the outside of the ring, the two orifices of the gut are enveloped in the neck of the hernial sac, which soon becoming adherent to them by the effect of inflammation, serves for a certain time to direct the fteces towards the external wound, and to prevent their effusion into the ab- domen. In proportion as the outer wound di- minishes, the external portion of the neck of the hernial sac also contracts ; but that part, which embraces tlie orifices of the intestine, gradually becomes larger, and at length forms a kind of 7nem- branous, funnel-shaped, intermediate cavity, which mikes the eommunication hetiueen the two parts of the boivel. However, according to Scarpa's inves- tigations, this adhesion of the neck of the hernial sac round the two orifices of the gut, does not hinder the latter from gradually quitting the ring, and becoming more and more deeply placed in the cavity of the abdomen. The base of the above- described funnel-shaped membranous cavity corre- sponds to the bowel, and its apex tends towards the wound, or fistula. But, in relation to this part of the subject, there are some other circumstances which every surgeon should well understand. I allude to tlie exact position of the two portions of the bowel, with respect to each other, the direction of their orifices, the angle or ridge between them, and the differ- ence in their diameters. The first of these circum- stances, viz, the position of the two parts of tlie bowel, was correctly described by Saviard, Moraud, and Desault; and, as we have seen, is pointed out by Mr. Travers, who represents them as occupying a position nearly parallel, and cites an interesting observation recorded by I'ipelet. The patient was a woman fifty-six years old ; the loop of spoiled gut was from five to six inciics long : the contents of the bowel were discharged through tlie wound for a considerable time, and an artificial anus was rUS. 267 established. Some accidental obstruction occurred ; a purgative was given, which operated in the natm'al way, and in fifteen days the wound was healed. She lived in perfect health to the age of eighty-two, when she died of a disease not con- nected with this malady. Pipelet examined the body, and has given a figure representing the union. The line of the intestine formed an acute angle, where it adhered to the peritoneum, opposite to the crural arch. The cylinder is evidently much contracted. Pipelet particularly dwells upon the angular position, and constriction of the tube at the point of union. The lower continuation of the intestinal tube was also remarked to be more con- tracted than the upper portion ; a circumstance correctly referred, by Mr. Travers, to the undilated state of the bowels, situated between the artificial and the natural anus. (See Mem. de I'Acad, de CItir. t. iv. p. 164 ; and Travers, On Injtiries of tlu: Intestines, p. 364.) The two ends of the bowel, as Scarpa has observed, are found lying in a more or less parallel manner by the side of each other ; the upper with its orifice open, and directed to- wards the external wound by the fasces, which issue from it ; while the lower, which gives passage to nothing, becomes less capacious, and is re- tracted further into the abdomen ; or, as Dupuy- tren observes, the two terminating portions of bowel pass into the abdomen, sometimes crossing, sometimes coiling over one another; in other instances, running parallel ; but most frequently diverging at a more or less acute angle. (See Dupuytren, Ciinique CIdr. t. ii. p. 202.) According to Scarpa, the breach in the intestinal canal is never repaired by the orifices of the upper and lower portions of the bowels reimiting, coalescing, and running as it were into each other. Indeed, they meet at a very acute angle ; the axis of one does not correspond to that of the other ; and their orifices never lie exactly opposite each other. It is, in short, by means of the funnel-shaped cavity formed by the remains of the hernial sac, that the two parts of the bowel communicate ; and the fteces, in order to get from the upper into the lower continuation of the intestine, must first pass in a semicircular track through that funnel-shaped cavity, there being between the orifices of the bowel, a considerable projection, or jutting anr/le forming a material additional obstacle to the direct passage of the fcBces from tlie upper i?ito the lower portion of the intestinal tube, {iicarpa suW Ernie Memoria, Nat. Chirurgischc, Milano, 1809.) This promontorio, as it was called by Scarpa or (?peron, as it is named by the French, was men- tioned both by Saviard and Morand. It consists in fact, of the part of the bowel which has beeii spared by gangrene, or a wound, in the direction towards the mesentery; and it advances more or less towards the skin, in proportion as the bowel has experienced a greater or lesser loss of sub- stance, or a greater or lesser change of direction. When the bowel has only been wounded, or the seat of a small slough, and it pursues its natural course, the projection is trivial and concealed • but very large, reaching the level of the skin, when the wiiolu circuml'dieiice of the bowel has been destroyed ; and, in consequence of tiic loss of sub- stance, its two ends meet at an acute angle, or run parallel to one another. In the first case, there is between the two orifices of tlie bowel a cylindrical channel, more or less deep, which may still con-