629 ERYSIPELAS. s s 3 Whatever it is, It may be considered in some of its effects to be in direct opposition to the adhesive and the suppurative iuflanmuitions ; for where the adhesive most readily produces adhesions, tliere tlie erysipelatous does not, as in the common cellular membrane ; and where the adhesive seldom takes place, excepting from extreme violence, then this inflammation, if erysipelatous, has a tendency to produce adhesions, as in canals or outlets." "What- ever the inflammation may be, it is certainly attended with nearly the same kind of constitu- tional affection. The fever in both appears to be the same; viz. accompanied with debility, languor, &c. The extravasation, in consecjuence of the ery- sipelatous inflammation, is not so great as in either the adhesive or the cedematous, nor is it of that kind ■which produces adhesions between the parts in- flamed, which in this inflammation would commonly be unnecessary, as it seldom produces suppuration, but is attended with very bad consequences when it does. It appears to support itself by continued sympathy, for it commonly begins at a point and spreads, while it shall be getting well where it first began." Hunter says, in a note : "But the inflam- mation may be such as to contaminate while it spreads." {Hunter, On the Blood, Palmer's ed., vol. iii. p. 314, part ii. ch. ii. sect. 70.) [Cullen "supposed the erysipelas to depend on a matter generated in the body, and which, analo- gous to the other cases of exanthemata, is in consequence of fever thrown out upon the surface of the body. I own it may be difficult to apply this to every particular case of erysipelas ; but I take the case in which it is generally supposed to apply—that of erysipelas of the face." "The disease is not commonly contagious, but as it may arise from an aci'id matter externally applied, so it is possible that the disease may be sometimes com- municated from one person to another. Persons who have once laboured under this disease are liable to returns of it." {First Lines, loc. cit.) It will be seen, as we more fully show in art. Inflamimation, that ifunter's philosophy is a pure soUdisin, based upon the supposition of peculiar modes of action of the living parts, and not upon the notion of a change of composition. He treats of inflammation, and of each variety of it, as a specific action, or mode of action, working in the parts concerned, with results influenced partly by the kind of action, partly by the structure of the parts and their powers. The abuse of this doctrine, and neglect of the ancient humoralisra, led to the extravagant notions of inflammation as a process of increased action and power, which are not extinct even in our own day.] Dr. Carmichael Smith, for example, contended that erysipelas was an inflammation of the skin, and that all its phenomena and peculiarities arise entirely from the structure involved. Mr. Lawrence, at one time, was supposed to ad- vocate most .strongly the doctrinej of the simple inflammatory or phlcymonic, in contradistinction to the specific nature of erysipelas. He observes, that "a consideration of the origin, development, and effects of erysipelas, whether local or general, leads us irresistibly to the conclusion, that the nature of the afTection is inflammatory. In its four leading characters of redness, swelling, heat, and pain, and in its effects of efl^iision, suppuration, and sloughing, it agrees with what is called common or phlegmo- nous inflammation ; while the general disturbance. preceding and accompanying the local affection, ia often exactly alike in the two cases. Erysipelas then is merely a particular modification of cutaneous, or cutaneous and cellular inflammation. If we were to class these according to their natural affinities, we should place erysipelas between the exanthe- mata and phlegmon. It is less diffused than the former, not so circumscribed as the latter. Tiie exanthemata are confined to the skin ; erysipelas affects both skin and cellular structure ; while phlegmon has its original seat in the latter, the skin being secondarily involved." Yet he continues: "The difference between ery- sipelas and phlegmon, however, is not merely in the original seat, or degree of the disturbance: there is also a difference in kind. We may indeed say, generally, that phlegmon is a more violent inflam- mation than erysipelas, but sloughing of the cellular substance is more frequent in the latter than the former. The most striking and important distinc- tion between the two afteotions is, that inflammation is confined to one spot in phlegmon, and is dis- tinctly circumscribed in its seat, while it is diffused in erysipelas, and spreads without limit. This dif- ference seems to depend on the adhesive character of the inflammatory process in the former ; the substance called coagulating, coagulable, or organ- isable lymph, eftused around the inflamed part, forms a boundary between it and the sound por- tion, which is altogether wanting in erysipelas. In the latter, the effusion is serous; hence, when matter is formed, it is not confined to one spot, but becomes extensively difi'used in the cellular tissue." {Med. CMr. Trans, vol. xiv. p. 17., &c.) [Mr. Nunneley, whose most able monograph on erysipelas is the standard work on the subject, treats of it as a type and example of a class of affections which ought to be separated in idea from true phlegmonous inflammation. He speaks of two local and constitutional conditions respectively ; to one of which he gives—after j\Ir. Travers—the name irritation and irritative fever; to the other, inflam- mation. " These two conditions of constitution are, when clearly exhibited, widely diflferent from each other, and may be regarded as the two extremes of a scale between which there is everv conceivable grade. In the one case, we shall have much vascular excitement, with correspond- ing power in the nervous energjr, and if the disturbance be occasioned by an external injury, there will be a great tendency to limit the mis- chief by the effusion of coagulable lymph "or if the disturbance depend upon some more general cause, and the action be exhibited upon one of the continuous membranes, it is also marked by the effusion of plastic lymph, which is capable of becoming organised." " In the opposite condition, whether the effect bo from external injury, or constitutional cause, there is no such effort made to limit the action by the effusion of plastic lymph ; on the contrary, there is considerable tendency for the mischief to spread extensively and if lymph be efl'used it is not of the organis- able kind," "and is accompanied by much serum." "Tiiore is great vascular excitement without corresponding nervous energy ; hence the pulse IS always very quick, seldom full or hard, but often jerking and easily compressed." To the former of these conditions the epithet jiMnpnonoid diallifsis, to the latter cri/sipelaloid dialliesis mav lied. ^ he !i