CATARACT, each case theash was composed of chloride of sodium with traces of sulphate and phosphate of soda, of lime, and of oxide of iron. Treated by steam the crystal line took up 88-437 per cent., the cataracts only 64-927 per cent. Alcohol displayed in each chloresterine, fatty fluid, crystals of fatty acid' and traces of urea. (See Heller's ArcUv f. physiol. u pathol Chemie, 1853. For full .information on the histology of cataract, the reader is referred to the researches of C. Robin ; Sichd, IconographicB Ophlhalmologique; Desmarres, Trail6 des Maladies des leux, t. Hi. 2° ed.; and Arclnves d'OpMhalmo- logie, t.v.; Testelin, Ann. d'OcuUstique, 1855 and 1856, and Lolmieyer, Zeitschrifi fur rationelle Mcdecm, nouv. sir. t. v. 1854. . Valuable statisti- cal notes are given by Stellivag Von Carion, Zft der Wie?i. Aerxle, 1852.) Cataracts are said to have been cured in venereal patients while under a course of mercury. Pro- bably, however, many such cases might have been mere opacities of the cornea, or, at most, only tran- sient opacities of the capsule, or depositions of Ij'iuph in the posterior chamber, the consequence ot existing or previous inflammation. Wenzel placed no reliance whatever on the power of any remedies to dissipate a cataract, and as he had re- marked their inefficiency in numerous instances, he ielt authorised m declaring that internal remedies either of the mercurial or any other kind, are in- adequate to the cure of this disorder ; and equally so whether the opacity be in the cr3'stalline lens or in the capsule, whether incipient or advanced. Ware, who at one time supposed that incipient cataracts might be cured by spirituous applications, and particularly the sulphuric ather, latterly abandoned the opinion. In short, the operation is now regarded as the only means afi'ording any rational hope of restoring the eyesight of patients afflicted with cataracts. Speaking of genuine ca- taracts, Mr. Lawrence delivers his belief that no external nor internal medicines with which we are at present acquainted can alter the condition of the opaque lens and capsule. General or local measures may occasionally alleviate particular symptoms, or remove concomitant affections; but they have absolutely no influence on the cataract. (On Dis. of ihe Eye, p. 411.) Another experi- enced and well-informed writer on this subject joins ill the belief that most of the alleged cures have in all probability been either instances of mere fibrinous efliisions on the surface of the cap- sule, or else cases of ruptured capsule, in which the removal of the opaque lens has been effected by the solvent power of the aqueous humour; "while, on other occasions, it is scarcely to be doubted that no affection of the lens or its capsule existed; but, that glaucoma, with incipient amau- rosis, was mistaken for cataract, .and submitted to certain modes of treatment, which not unfrequently prove eflicacious in restoring to a certain degree the sensibility of the retina. (See A/ac/cenzie, On ^'s. of the Eye, p. 698, ed. 2.) The late JMr. ■ VVare has been the only practitioner who has at- tempted the cure of cataract by local stimulants. M. Gondret employs eloctricitj'-, galvanism, and ammoniacal coUyria, and cauterisation of the ioreliead cither with the actual cautery, or an ointment composed of a highly-concentratcd solu- tion of ammonia. M. MageiKlie regards the iiiiity of this practice as depending upon its stimu- lating the fifth nerve, the influence of which is so essentially concerned in the nutrition of the eve, that, when divided, tlie cornea becomes opaque ™ 'r transformed into a substance esembling curd Cataract being often suspected 0 ause from defective nutrition of the lens, some imperfection of the nerve, it is conceived, mav be concerned. Here the question arises, were M Gondret s cases true or spurious cataracts » Dr Mackenzie expresses his suspicion, that most of them were of the latter kind. (Op. cit. p. 699 ) Notwithstanding the perfection to which the operation, with all its different modifications, really has been brought, its performance will not always re-establish vision ; and even in favour- able cases, the result is exposed to many contin- gencies. A surgeon should be able to distinguish, first, the cases of cataract in which an operation may be done with the best chance of success ; secondl}', the examples in which the prognosis is more or less doubtful; and lastly, the cases in which there is a great probability, or an absolute cer- tainty, of the operation failing, in which last cir- cumstance the practice is prohibited. According to Beer, the result of an operation will probably be favourable:—1. When the cata- ract is a genuine local complaint, perfectly free from every species of complication. 2. When the conformation of the eye and surrounding parts is such, as to allow whatever method of operating may be most advantageous for the particular case to be done without diflicultj-. 3. When the pa- tient is intelligent enough to behave himself in a manner which will not disturb the precision and safety of the requisite proceedings in the operation or the subsequent treatment. 4. When the oper- ator not only possesses all requisite medical and surgical knowledge in general, but is capable of judging correctly what method of operating suits the particular case ; and when besides he has de- rived from nature and acquirement such mental and corporeal qualities as are essential to a skilful operator on the eye; viz. an acute ej-esight, a steady, but light, skilful hand, excellently qualified for mechanical artifice in general; long pliant fingers; a delicate touch; a certain tenderness in the scientific treatment of this particular organ ; complete fearlessness; invincible presence of mind; and proper circumspection. 5. When the requisite instruments are not too complicated ; but well adapted to the purpose, and in right order. 6. When the domestic condition of the patient is such as not to occasion any particular disadvan- tages during or after the operation. Yet, says Beer, even with this fortunate combination of cir- cumstances, uniform success must not be expected ; for a patient, whose sight is quite prevented by this disease, and who, previously to its origin, was already far-sighted, will be still more so after the removal of the diseased lens, and, in order to sec distinctly the most common objects which are near, he will be obliged constantly to employ suitable glasses. An individual of this description, though the operation be done with great success, is apt not to be satisfied. ■ But such patients as were short-sighted previously to the formation of tlieir cataracts, are more pleased with the restoration of vision, as before the operation their eyesight was much less than what it is now, and in general they can lay aside the glasses wliicli they formerlj'-made use of without having occasion for any others.