1 amologwulJmilomy,lvni\shlcd by Rusk, p. \2Ci'.) ^/laU Hall, M.D. On Prone and Postural Respira- tion in Dromiiny and other forms of Apnoea or Suspended Respiration. Lond. 1857.) ATHEROMA (from a.er]pa, pap). An en- cysted tumor, so named from its contents being of the consistence of pap. (See Tumors, En- cysted.) For the so-called atheromatous deposits in the coats of arteries, see Arteritis and Aneurism. ATROPHY (from a privative, and rpo(p^, nutrition). A deficiency in the nutritive powers of a part, in consequence of which its natural dimen- sions are reduced, and tiie number of its con- stituent molecules diminished. (Toionsend, in Cyclop, of Prac. Med. art. Atrophy.) According to another pathologist, atrophy is degeneration of growth, deficiency in tlie size and weight of a part, and commonly of one or more of its usual con- stituents in particular. {Maijo, Outlines of Human Pathology, p. 16.) When the functions of organs cease, or are long suspended, an atrophy of them usually follows. Thus in a limb, kept for a long while unexercised in consequence of disease, the bones suffer atroph}^ as well as the soft parts. But certain states of disease and injury, frequently lead to atrophy of various organs and textures. This fact is often exemplified, in the testicle. Wounds of the occiput and back of the neck were remarked by Larrey, in Egypt, to be often fol- lowed by atrophy of this organ. The want of a free supply of blood and nervous energy, leads necessarily to weakness and atrophy of parts. In old age, various parts undergo what is termed senile atrophy. Thus, in advanced life, the ovaries and mammary glands are reduced to mere rudiments. According to Dr. Carswell, atrophy "is the modification of bulk, which takes place in conse- quence of a diminution in the quantity of the solid materials which enter into the healthy composition of organs and tissues." This diminution of bulk, which constitutes the essential physical character of atrophy, is described by him as depending upon diminished exercise of the nutritive functions. (See C'arsivell's Illustrations of the Elementary Forms of Disease, p. 10.) In this valuable work, one of the most correct ever published on this interesting branch of pathology, notice is taken of certain forms of congenital atrophy, as exemplified in monstrosities, and occurring as the consequences of the formative process having been arrested at certain periods of the evolution of particular organs. Dr. Carswell next adverts to the atrophy, or even total disappearance of organs, soon after birth, which performed fimctions essential to the existence of the foetus, but which are now no longer necessary to the maintenance of life ; as the ductus arteriosus, umbilical arteries, the thymus gland, supra-renal capsules, &c. Different "from these two forms nf atrophy is that which, as Dr. Carswell observes, takes place in advanced life, "as the fulfilment of a general law of nature, so conspicuously manifested in the limited duration of all organised beings, which, having attained the maximum of their development, decline, afier a variable period of time, and tend gradually towards decay." Senile atrophy, as Dr. Carswell terms it, IS carried to a great extent in the vasiciilar struc- ture of the lungs, the spongy structure of the penis, the teste.", the lymphatic and mammary glands, the uterus, and ovaries. The bones in general lose much of their weight ; and, as every surgeon of 297 ATROPHY. experience knows, fracture of the neck of the thighbone is rendered common in old persons, in consequence of the effects of senile atrophy. After seventy, the brain is diminished from to Jjj of its average weight, and becomes specifically 'lighter, and the trunks and branches of the nerves are reduced in size. The muscles, e.<;pecially those of voluntary motion, participate likewise in the ge- neral decay : and so do the blood-vessels, which always bear a relation to the increased or reduced size of the organs to which they are distributed. This fact is exemplified in the size of the large, or the number of small arteries being lessened. The general interstitial absorption of John Hunter, the atrophy of the whole body, or the marasmus and emaciation from disease deranging the im- portant functions of digestion, respiration, and the qualities of the blood, from fevers, profusi' suppura- tion, and various severe and organic diseases, I need not consider in this place. But, besides these forms of atrophy affecting the whole body, there are others which are local, and divided by Professor Carswell into three classes. 1. Atrophy from a diminished supply of blood. 2. From diminished exercise of the function of innervation. 3. From diminished exercise of the functions of the organ. For numerous original, philosophical, and prac- tical remarks on these heads, I refer to CursweWs Illustrations of the Elementary Forms of Disease f'asc. 10. ^ J , [Mr. Paget ranges atr^hy under two heads, one in which a part simply wastes, or is reduced in size, with little or no change of texture ; the other in which it gradually and regularly degenerates. He says :—" There are two modes of atrophy, the one with simple decrease, the other with degenera- tion of tissue. In both, there is a loss of func- tional power in the part ; but in one this loss is due to deficient quantity, in the other to the de- teriorated quality of the tissue." Farther on he remarks, in reference to senile atrophy :—" All the expressions usually employed about these changes imply that they are not regarded as the results of disease: nor should they be ; they are, or may be, completely normal ; and were it not that the forces which are efficient in degeneration are, probabl}-, very different from those which actuated the formative processes, we might justly call the degeneration of advanced age another normal method of nutrition. For to degenerate and die, ia as normal as to bo developed and live ; the ex- pansion of growth, and the full strength of man- hood, are not more natural than the decay and feebleness of old age ; not more natural, because not more in accordance with constant laws, as ob- fiorved inordinary conditions. As the development ol the whole being, and of every element of its tissues, IS according to certain laws, so is the whole process regulated by which all that has life will as of Its own workings cease to live." In addition' to the mere wasting or emaciation of tissues, under the head ol degenerations, he mentions the fiittv ihe earthy, the pigmental, and the thickening of primary membrane. {PayeCs Lectures on Surgical I ulhology.) Wedl observes, « There are two principal causes by which atrophy is induced, first, an atrophic con- dition of the blood as a nutritive fluid; secondly defective circulation of the blood (imperfect loco- inotion of the nutritive iWnX.)" ~ ( Rudiments of