HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. 90 3 SI 3 in his 3rd vol. (p. 82), gives us another case, in •which a ball pierced the left parietal bone, and lodged near the lanibdoidnl suture. Its situation was detected with the aid of an elastic gum catheter, and partly in consequence of there being a slight ecchymosis over the part. Here a crucial incision was made through the scalp, and a small fissure discovered. As the symptoms of compression increased, the trepan was applied, so as to include the fissure. A half of the ball, flattened, was found directly under the perforation, and a good deal of blood was voided from the two openings in the cranium. For a fortnight the case went on favour- ably; but the patient was thenattacked with what Larrey terms hospital fever, but which, in all pro- bability, was inflammation and suppuration of the membranes of the brain, and died. Tlie records of surgery furnish numerous in- stances, in which the patients lived a considerable time with balls lodged in the cavity of the cra- nium. Thus, one is related by Paroisse, where the patient soon recovered his senses after the injury, and, at the end of six months, felt no in- convenience, except a difficulty of opening the mouth. (Opuscules de Chir. Obs. i. 8vo. Paris, 1806.) Ramdohr published another case, where a soldier was shot through the frontal sinus, and the ball was found after death in the medidlary substance of the left hemisphere of the brain, half an inch above the ventricle ; yet this patient lived four months after the injury, and soon recovered his senses after its occurrence. For a considerable part of this time, he was also free from any bad symptoms. At last, he was affected with a kind of stupor, and an inability to open his left eye, and fell into a lethargic and convulsed state. {Schmicker, Vermischie Chir. Schrifteii, b. i. p. 277.) A French soldier, at the battle of Wa- terloo, was woimded with a musket-ball, which- entered at the anterior portion of the squamous suture, lodged in the substance of the brain, and on the fifth da}', after an enlargement of the wound, and the removal of several fragments of bone, was extracted from the posterior lobe of the right hemisphere of the brain, where it was found resting on the tentorium. Yet, daring the several previous days, the man, with the exception of a slight headache, and partial deafness of the right ear, seemed to enjoy perfect health. The case ended well. (See Hemien's Mil. Surg, p., 289, ed. 2.) M. Velpeau cites a case, where several small shots lodged for many years on the dura mater, and were the cause of epileptic attacks. (2>e I'Opcr. du Trepan, p. 44.) He saw a soldier at the Invalides, with a ball that had remained fixed for many years in the opening which it had produced in the skull, the man having refused to permit its extraction to be attempted ; from the account, however, I infer, that it lay partly in the frontal sinus, and that the inner table was iiot injured. The same surgeon also quotes a case from Schmucker {Dilil. du Nord, t. i.), where a wounded person remained senseless for six days, with a piece of the barrel of a gun within the skull: four perforations were made with the tre- pan, and a recovery took place. In the Med. Chir. Trans, are the particulars of a case, in which the linch-pin of a gun was driven into the os frontis, and penetrated the brain, so as to bo concealed, and its presence not suspected, till the twenty- seventh day after the accident, when it was detected and taken out. The boy walked some distance directly after the accident, and then fell down senseless and convulsed. By means of antiphlogistic treatment, he regained his mental faculties the next day, and finally recovered, with the exception of amaurosis of one eye. Notwith- standing the instances on record of balls and other foreign bodies having lodged in the brain without proving fatal, (see Ramdohr, op. cit. p. 81, and La Martiniere, as refeiTed to by Velpeau}, the rule in surgery is always to extract them when practicable. In a case, mentioned by Quesnay (p. 23), the patient, who was supposed to be en- tirely out of danger, died a year afterwards, and the ball was found in the brain at the depth of two inches. The example, published by Anel {Acad, de Chir. t. i. p. 236), terminated in the patient's sudden death, and the ball was found on the pineal gland. Many other interesting observations on this subject have been collected by M. Velpeau. (De I'Oper. du Trepan, p. 48.) All foreign bodies, occasioning irritation or laceration of the brain, seem to M. Velpeau formally to require the perforation of the cranium ; but the chances of a favourable result are less than in a simple depres- sion of the bone, on account of the risk of^ inflam- mation of the brain being greater. (Op. cit. p. 122.) Remarkable instances of the duration of life, and even of the absence of very serious symptoms, after great and serious wounds of the brain, and the lodgment of balls, are recorded in the Essay of M. Quesnay. (iV/em. de I'Acad. de Chir. vol. i. 4to.) Professor Sewall, of Washington, has re- ported two cases of fracture of the cranium, ivith loss of a portion of the substance of the brain. In one of them the injury was inflicted with a spade, which penetrated through the dura mater and into the medullary substance of the brain. The anti- phlogistic treatment was relied upon from the commencement, and during the suppuration which followed some of the brain itself protruded and sloughed away, and subsequently portions of it were removed with a spatula. Nevertheless, in six weeks, the patient completely recovered. (See Amer. Journ. of the Med. and Phys. Sciences, No. iii. ; and Reese's Amer. ed. of this Diet.) Twenty-two French soldiers, whose vertices, with more or less of the brain, had been cut off by sabre-strokes, had, at first, not a single bad symptom, and all performed a journey of thirty leagues after being wounded, and one-half of this distance on foot. Ten of them died. (See Parowsf! Opuscules de Chir. p. 41, &c.) Several cases ex- emplifying the absence of bad symptoms in' the first stage of a wound of the brain, and yet termi- nating fatally, I have seen in the army, ns well as at St. Bartholomew's and University College Hospitals. A case is recorded by Fardeau (Soc d'Emul. t. viii. p. 399), of a bayonet penetrating one temple and coming out below the cheek of the opposite side : the eff'orts of a strong man were required to get it out again: the patient recovered. Whether the brain was pierced in this example may, I think, admit of doubt. [The necessary inference from these rcmarlcs is, that la cases of simple depressed fracture without symptoms of compression, as a general rule, it is better to abstain from using the trephine to'raise the bone; and further, in cases of this description where doubtful signs of compression exist, in coml bination with symptoms of concussion, operative