913 HEAD, INJURIES OP THE. 3 N pfesent day ; but, although in a great measure the practice is obsolete, it is not altogether to be disregarded, as a very important agent in the treat- ment to prevent inflammation of the brain or its membranes after concussion. A cautious exhibi- •tion of mercury in the form of calomel is advi- sable, even to the productioh of slight ptyalism, when insensibility is prolonged. It will be foimd most useful in relieving that congested state of the vessels of the brain so common after concus- sion. Even mercurial inunction may be used in extreme cases. During its exhibition the pulse must be watched with the greatest care, and if it flags strong broths, beef-tea, and even wine may be administered with advantage whilst the mer- cury is used. We cannot speak too strongly against the use of emetics in concussion. The practice is to be con- demned, as likely to lead to rupture of the cerebral vessels durin? the act of vomitinij. In persons of a nervous temperament, and espe- cially if a depletory plan of treatment has been pursued to any extent, an irritable state of system becomes developed, which persists for a lengthened period after the signs of concussion have passed away. This state, more frequent in delicate fe- males, is to be relieved by gentle purges and slight stimuli, with small doses of ammonia and cam- phor; and opium even may be most advantageously employed. The condition may be generally re- cognised by a pallid countenance, a blanched scle- rotic with a wild expression of the eye, a weak irritable pulse, throbbing of the temporal arteries, a moist skin and furred tongue, restlessness, a dis- position to faintness, and occasionally partial or com- plete amaurosis. I have seen this condition occa- sionally in persons habituated to the use of ardent spirits, in whom no depletion had been used in the treatment of concussion. Such are the cases, in fact, which would probably end in delirium tre- mens. A full dose of opium often aUays the symptoms at once, and the patient from that mo- ment makes a satisfactory recovery. The cautious use of opium in injuries of the head was recom- mended by Bromfield, and since his time has been advocated by Guthrie and most writers on this subject. As there is necessarily a tendency to in- flammation of the brain and its membranes after severe concussion, the after-treatment is of the utmost consequence. In most cases all stimuli are to be avoided so long as any pain in the head re- mains and there is the slightest tendency to re- lapse into a state of insensibility. Country air and moderate exercise, tranquillity of mind, with a mildly nutritious diet, and careful attention to the bowels, will do more to complete the restoration of the patient than the use of medicine. The paralysing influence of concussion is felt, as we have already shown, according to its degree, on the different nervous centres. Thus in man its first effect, in its simplest form, is upon the cere- brum, properly so called; and it is only in its highest degree that the other subordinate parts of the nervous system become aft'ccted, as is shown in the dilated condition of the pupil, in the ster- torous breathing, and in loss of control over the sphincter ani. From these circumstances wo draw the legitimate inference that the lesion in function of the organic system of nerves implies an extent of injury far higher than is indicated by the mere cessation of sense and the power of motion. These may be called subordinate parts of the nervous sys- tem. Let us not, however, be misunderstood upon this subject, for it is, of course, not disputed that they are the most essential, if we regard man as a mere animal. The term is only used as expressive of the idea of their inferiority as compared with the in- tellect of man. The different forms of insanity, from simple dementia to violent mania, may be mentioned in the category of the occasional consequences of concussion. The condition may be temporary, or it may continue through life. Of the latter Guthrie (loc. cit.) mentions two instances : they were both followed by a fatal result. This obviously depends upon the extent of injury the brain has sustained, for" it is evident that if severe organic lesion has happened, or effusion of blood has taken place into the arachnoid cavity to any great extent, permanent recovery cannot occur. Hewett (loc. cit.) gives a good illustration of this in the case of " a man, aet. fifty-three, who was ad- mitted, under Mr. Cutler, into St. George's Hos- pital, twelve hours after having fallen down a flight of stairs when drunk. His case was thought to be one of severe concussion of the brain. He re- mained in a state of insensibility for two days, passing his water and his motions under him. But by the third day he was able to answer questions put to him, and henceforward he gradually im- proved until he became quite collected. His face was at one time drawn to the left side, and there was also ptosis of the right eyelid; but within a month these symptoms had passed away and he was allowed to get up and go about the ward. At times he was, however, flighty in his manner, with partial loss of memory. An attack of erysipelas carried him off just two months after the accident. The brain-substance was perfectly healthy, but within the cavity of the arachnoid there were the remains of an extensive extravasation of blood, \yhich, membrane-like, was adherent to the pa- rietal layer of the serous membrane corresponding to the upper surface of both hemispheres." It is remarkable, but a few cases are on record of the fact, that a rather severe concussion of the brain has been followed by some benefit to the patient. Thus a restoration to reason, after deme7i(ia,occiirredL in a case mentioned by Desault. Mr. Listen {Ele- rnenis of Surgery) mentions the case of an old nurse " who had sustained a fracture of the vertex, with slight depression of the broken part. Stupor, with other symptoms of concussion, was the immediate effect of the injury, but disappeared in a few days. Her hearing, which previous to the injury had long been so obtuse as to render it necessary for her to discontinue her employment, became so in- tensely acute that the most trifling noise became a source of pain, She gave immediate orders for the clock to be stopped, the ticking of which annoyed her greatly. In this case," says Liston, " there can be little doubt that restoration of a sense which had long remained dormant arose entirely from cerebral commotion, as no discharge of blood or other fluid occurred from the cars by which ceru- men accumulated in these organs might have been displaced." Mr. Hyslop {MSS. on Injuries of tlie Head, Library of the College of Surgeons) relates the case of a boy who had been deaf from infancy, and who completely and permanently obtained his hearing after a severe concussion of the brain. We forbear