FRACTURE. or other mischief of the spinal cord ; from wliich more perilous consequences arc to be apprehended than from the injury of the bones, abstractedly considered. The displaced pieces of bone may press on the spinal cord, or even wound it, so as to occasion a paralytic affection of all the parts, which derive their nerves from the continuation of it below the fracture. There may be fractures of the vertebra without displacement ; or fractures complicated with dislo- cation, or extravasation of blood on the'membranes of the spinal cord, of which last occurrence several specimens are preserved in University College Museum. Sir Benjamin Brodie has noticed that, in consequence of external violence, a narrow clot of blood may be extravasated within the substance of the spinal cord, and that from its peculiar situ- ation it may be productive of the most dangerous symptoms. With respect to laceration of the cord and its membranes, he observes that it may be torn completely through, or lacerated in one part and not in another; and he refers to a case described by M. Ollivier, in which the attachments of the nerves on one side were destroyed and not on the other. As for the concussion, the minute organisation of the spinal cord may be injured by it, even when there is neither fracture nor dislocation, and the investing membranes exhibit no effects of the in- jury. " In such cases, if there be an opportunity of examining the spinal cord at a very early period after the accident, the central part of it is found to be softer than natural, its fibrous appearance being lost in that of a semifluid substance. If the patient survives for a longer period, the alteration of struc- ture is perceptible in the whole diameter of the cord, and occupies from one to two inches, or even more of its length; and at a still later period, it has often proceeded so far as to terminate in its complete dissolution." (Sh- B. Brodie in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xx. p. 121, 122.) Sir Astley Cooper divides fractures of the bodies of the vertebra with displacement into two classes: first, those whicli occur above the third cervical vertebra ; and, secondly, others which happen below that bone. The first cases, he says, are almost always immediately fatal, if the displacement be to the usual extent. In the second description of cases, death takes place at various periods .after tlie injury. The reason of this difference is ascribed to the circumstance of the phrenic nerve originating from the third and fourth cervical pairs, whence in the first class of cases death is immediately produced by paralysis of tlie diaphragm, and the stoppage of respiration. (0« Dislocations, p. 552.) Sir Benjamin Brodie correctly refers tlie symp- toms which arise as an immediate consequence of injuries of the spine ; Ist, To concussion of the spinal cord ; 2nd, To laceration, or division of its substance; 3rd, To pressure made on it, either by displacement of bone, or by extravasated blood. Afterwards inflammation of the membranes of the cord may take place, and other organs may be secondarily affected, giving rise to another order of symptoms which did not exist in the beginning. Ho adds that, when the symptoms arc viewed generally, they vary : 1st, according to the part of tne spinal cord on which the injury has been iu- llicted ; 2iid, according to tlio kind and degree of "ijury wliich the cord lias sustained ; 3rd, according as, from accidental circumstances, tlie life of the patient is prolonged for a longer or shorter period, or ultimately preserved. (See Brodie in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xx. p 127 ) These facts deserve to be particularly remembered for without the recollection of them the practi.! tioner would be extremely perplexed in his en- deavours to explain the great differences in the symptoms and results of different cases. As the mere concussion of the spine may occasion symptoms which resemble those usually occurring when the vertebra are fractured, the diagnosis h generally obscure. An inequality in the line of the spinous processes, and a crepitus, may sometimes be distinctly felt. The lower extremities, and the rectum and bladder, are generally paralytic- the patient being afflicted with retention of urine and involuntary discharge of the faces. According to Sir Benjamin Brodie's obs«rvations, the patient is generally imconscious of the bladder being distended; but occasionally he suffers aa from an ordinary retention of urine, though in a less degree. "The incapability of voiding the urine is usually an early symptom, and in° fatal cases it continues to the last. When a complete or partial recovery takes place, the power of emptying the bladder is restored sooner than that of using the muscles of the lower limbs. In cases in which the catheter is not employed, the urine flows involuntarily, as in most other cases of over- distended bladder where the urethra is free." "At other times there is a constant dribbling of urine, although the bladder is in a contracted state, so that, on the introduction of the catheter, no urine flows." {Sir B. Brodie, in Med. Qiir. Trans, vol. XX. p. 141.) With respect to paralysis of tic vohmtary muscles. Sir Benjamin Brodie remarks, that,-if the spinal cord be divided through its whole substance, or extensively lacerated, or subjected to any consi- derable pressure, the paralysis is immediate and complete. But if the injury be painial, certain muscles maybe paralysed, while others retain their power of voluntary motion. He notices also the well-known fact, that paralysis of the lower limbs is more common than tliat of the upper. " In some cases, in which the injury has affected the spinal cord in the lower part of the neck, the lower limbs are rendered paralytic, while there is either no paralysis, or a less degree of it, in the upper limbs. The reason of this is sufliciently obvious to any one who considers what are the origins of the nerves which form the axillary plexus, some of tliem being probably above the part which is injured. But tlie circumstance is still remarkable in this respect, that it is contrary to what liappens, when the functions of the spinal cord are interrupted in consequence of caries of the cervical vertebra;. In these last cases the paralj'sis is often complete in the upper limbs for many weeks, or even for montiis, before it extends to the lower. I have met with on\y a single case in which, after an injury of the cervical portion of the spine, there was almost complete paralysis of the muscles of the upper extremities, and none whatever of tliose of the lower." {Sir B. Brodie, .. in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xx. p. 12,0.) I tliir.k we must agree with the same experienced surgeon that, when paralysis of the upper and lower limbs (bllows a fracture of the lumbar vertebrnj, an in- stance of which is recorded by Mr. Stafford, or when it follows a concussion of the loins, as once