ANEURISM. 169 of his positions, " that non-pulsation of the sac is a sign auspicious, or otiicrwise, simply as it stands connected with increase or diminution of bulk, and pain." {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. ix. p. 415.) The first question is, how are we to account for the sudden accession of pain, the absence of pulsa- tion, the increase of the swelling, and the other changes which happened on the 10th of Januaiy? Judging from the particulars given, T should sa}', that at this period, the aneurisnval sac gave waj', and the disease changed from the circumscribed into the diffused form ; an alteration which would account for the pulsation being entirelj' lost, the increase of pain, and the extension of the swell- ing, &c. Now, although the circumstance of the sac giving way, or the increase of pain, swell- ing, &c. on the 10 th of January, may be taken as an argument, that the application of the liga- ture for tweidy-seveii hours, had failed in pro- ducing obstruction enough in the vessel to retard the progress of the disease, we ought to remem- ber, that at the time when these changes hap- pened, a trial of pressure was making, to which one might impute the change of the aneurism from the circumscribed to the diffused form, with quite as much probability, as to the enlargement of the sac by blood sent into it through the im- perfectly obliterated artery. However this may be, certain it is, that the second operation was done, when no pulsation existed in the swelling; and, perhaps, therefore, the case would have been doubly interesting, had the artery not been tied a second time, until circumstances had unequi- vocally proved, that this cessation of pulsation, attended as it was with an inflammatory state of the tumor, would not ultimately have ended in the cure of the disease. Here, however, I may be speaking rather in the spirit of an experimenter, whose curiosity has not been fully satisfied, than as a surgeon, who should always be governed by the paramount consideration of extricating his patient from dan- ger; and tills will appear the more likely, when I add, that my mind has long been made up about the inexpediency of the temporary ligature, as an innovation in siu-gery. The last case in- duced Mr. Travers to relinquish the temporary ligature; and, amongst other reflections, which inclined him to give up the practice, he candidly states, " that the adhesive union is prevented by the enclosure of a foreign body in the wonnd, long before suppuration has commenced. Sup- puration is as certain to take place, though the ligature be removed after a few hours, as if it were left to be cast ofl'; and the granulating pro- cess is more languidly performed, after an inter- ruption, in its eaily stage, for the purpose of removing the obstacle to union, than where no such interruption has been given, and the ob- stacle has been mmoved by nature's own means. Hence, it follows, that the theory, which, in re- moving the ligature within a given time, proposed the double advantage of a quicker, as well as a surer process, fails in both points, when brought to the test of practice upon the human subject." (See Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. ix. p. 410', 417.) Wc have seen, that when a temporary liga- ture, which had been applied to the brachial artery Ji//i/ hours, was withdrawn by Mr. 'J'ra- viTs, pulsation in the aneurismai tumor at the bend of the elbow did not return, and the disease was cured; but that, in another instance, where the ligature had been allowed to remain on the femoral artery only twenty-seven hours, a feeble pulsation was renewed a few hours afterwards in a popliteal aneurism, and as the swelling became painful and more diH'used, some weeks after this experiment, though no pulsation could then be per- ceived, the femoral artery was tied a second time, and the ligature left to separate in the usual manner. But, from a case more recently published, it would seem, that the employment of a temporary ligature for only twenty-four hours on the fe- moral artery, niay^ obliterate the vessel, and ac- complish tlie cure of a popliteal aneurism. The patient was a sea-faring man, aged tliirty-two; and the operator, Mr. Roberts of Carnarvon ; Mr. Evans and Mr. Carrey, other surgeons of that town, being present at the application, and also at the removal of the ligature. No pulsation recurred in the tumor; the edges of the wound were brought together with adhesive plaster ; and in eleven days the part was quite healed. {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi. p. 100.) This is the strong- est case, I believe, which has been adduced in support of the use of the temporary ligature, whether we consider the short time fgr which it was applied, the permanent cessation of all pulsation, the quickness with which the wound healed, or the complete recovery of the use of the limb; for when the patient was met six months after the operation, " he could go to the mast-head with as great facility as at any period of his life." This fact proves, also, that there is a degree of irregu- larity in the period when the temporary ligature may be removed, without the pulsation in the tumor below the constricted part ever returning. Whether the variety is to be referred to temper- ament, the kind of ligature used, its greater tight- ness in one case than another, or other circum- stances, is not at present determined. The greatest advocate, which this practice has gamed, is Scarpa, whose sentiments, however about the most advantageous form of ligatures) and mode of applying them in cases of aneurism, are at variance with what is inculcated by the best and most experienced surgeons in this coun- try. Instead of using a fine ligature, composed of a single piece of thread, twine, or silk, he employs a cord consisting of from four to six threads ac- cording to the size of the artery which is to be tied; and, instead of aiming expressly at the di- vision of the internal coats of the vessel with his ligature, as the generality of English surgeons do lor reasons explained in another part of this' work (see IlEMoaiiHAOE), he prefers a largish ligature, and interposes, between the artery and the knot, a small cylinder of linen spread with ointment, with the view of preventing the inner coats of the vessel from being divided. His rea- sons lor this practice may be explained in a few words: he admits, that whenever there is a con- currence of all the circumstances, capable of in- dncing, ,„ the tied artery, the proper degree of adhesive iiiflamniatioii, above and below the place where a single circular ligature has been api'lied this method IS adequate to produce a speedy and steady closure of the arterial'tube. 13ut, says he It sometimes happens, at least in man, that the' pressure made by the circular ligature produces the ulcerative process more ([uickly in the artery than the adhesive inllammatioii. In fact, the cirl