the lymphatic glands. Its most frequent site, how- ever, by far, is the lower part of the femur, where it forms an elongated swelling, with smooth surface, incompressible and painful. Tlie periosteum usually is continued over the surface, but is scarcely sepa- rable from it. "A section generally shows that the exterior of the growth is composed of a very firm, but not osseous substance ; while its interior part is partially or wholly osseous. The two substances are closely interblended where they meet, and their relative proportions differ much in different specimens, according to the progress already made by ossification. The unossitied part of the tumor is usually exceedinnly dense, firm, and tough, and may be incompressibly hard." Its cut surface is pale, greyish, or with a slight yellow, or pnik tint, marked with irregular short bars of a clearer white. The homjpart of the tumor, when cleaned by maceration, has characters altogether peculiar. In the central parts it is (in the best marked specimens) extremely compact, scarcely showing even any pores, white and dry. To cut It IS nearly as hard as ivory, yet, like hard chalk. It may be rubbed or scraped into fine dry powder. At its periphery, it is arranged in a tuberous form, and 13 very brittle, flaky, and pulverulent. " In the osteoid cancers of the lymphatic glands, and other soft parts, the bone is finely porous, spongy, or reticulated, or it may be finely lamellar, and look fibrous on its surface. It is always soft and brittle, and often it has in these parts no re- gular plan, but is placed in small close set grains, or spicules, which fall apart in maceration." The interstices are filled with cancer-substance. The unossified part of the tumor is made up of fibrous tissue of a peculiar kind, the fibres being short and imperfect, but densely matted together. Cancer cells like those of scirrhus my be imbedded in the interstices of the fibres, together with glo- meruli and minute oil molecules. They and their nuclei may, however, be entirely absent, as in a case recorded by Mr. Laurence, Assoc. Journal, Aug. 23, 1856. Acetic acid renders the fibrous tissue more translucent, .and brings into view numerous oval well defined nuclei. " The microscopic characters of the ossified part of the cancer are those of true bone, but rarely of well formed bone. In some parts—especially in the secondary cancers—that which appears to be bone is only an amorphous granular deposit of lime salts, like those in ordinary calcareous degenera- tions. In other parts the lacunfe of true bone are distinct, but they are small and their canaliculi are few, and short, and without order. Haversian canals also exist with these, but they have not a large series of concentric lamellre like those in normal bone." In some instances bone of a very fairly peifect structure is found, and this not ex- clusively in primary cancers, or near the natural bone on which the mass grows ; but it may be found also in the secondary growths in the glands, and elsewhere. Between such osteoid cancers as have been now described, and enccplialoid growths penetrated by foliaceous osteophytes springing from the bono on which they are seated, there is much apparent dif- ference, but not any absolute and essential ; a greater ossifying tendency would convert the latter into the former. But between the osteoid cancer and exostoses, and such growths from bone as are of innocent nature, there ia a very wide difference 389 CANCER. The visible structural distinctions between the two are stated at length by Mr. Paget (p. 246, vol. ii.) ; but the dynamic characteristics are more decisive.' After removal the osteoid cancers recur either in the original or in the encephaloid form ; in the ad- jacent lymphatic glands, or in internal organs. They grow rapidly, cause much pain, and are at- tended with cachexia sometimes early and intense. The habits of exostoses are very different. Of 20 cases of this form of cancer, 15 occiirred in the male and 5 in the female sex. Of 19 patients, 5 were between 10 and 20 years old; 9 between 20 and 30 ; 4 between 30 and 40 ; 1 between 40 and 50. Carcinoma Fasciculatum sive Hyalinum Requires a brief notice as a variety, although rather a rare one. It forms sometimes a consider- able tumor as a single mass, or a conglomerate of smaller ones, which partly are separated from each other by investments of connective tissue, partly are fused together. Its cut surface has a uniform aspect, varies from translucency to a whitish opa- city, and is more or less firm and consistent. It splits on pressure, so as to give the idea of a fibrous structure, the fibres being arranged into bundles. A sticky clear fluid, coagulable by acetic acid, is diffused through its substance. The microscope shows that the mass is made up of nuclei or cells, more or less and variously elongated, in fact, m various stages of transformation into fibre These lie Closely together, packed in bundles, which run parallel or interlace variously with each other. This kind of tumor occurs mostly in the female breast, also in the ovary, rectum, subcuta- neous tissue, and internal organs. It returns (when in the breast) after removal with great rapidity in the cicatrix and vicinity. Respecting Its vital aotions and tendencies we have no further account from Rokitansky. It seems to me difficult to forbear the suspicion that there is no material difference between the above variety of cancer and the group of formations to which Mr. Paget has given the name of malignant fibrous tumor which behave as cancers, though their structure is identical with that of simple, innocent growths The recurring fibroid seems also to be a variety of tumor structurally much like the fasciculate cancer, but deficient in some of the main tendencies of cancer life. Chemistry op Cancer. Our knowledge on this head is very imperfect and there seems to be very small prospect at pre- sent of Its being otherwise. The minuter differ- ences of chemical composition escape the efforts of the analyst, and the constitution of organic sub stances is so varying and uncertain that one can hardly feel any confidence as to whether the d.fteriMg results of several analyses depend on some slight error ni manipulation, or on an actual difference in the composition of the specimens Leinnann alhrms that the blood-albumen of dif^ lerent individuals, and even the albumen of different albuminous fluids in tha same individual docs not exhibit quite the same reactions. As a liasis for a chemical theory of cancer it would be needful to prove that some special material or mmiificntion of it, was found in cancer constantlv which by Its presence in the blood might be re- garded as aflbrding a stimulus to the development c c 3