(Lawrence, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xlii. p. 406.) These spontaneous displacements of the atlas may depend upon caries and scrofulous disease of its articular surfaces, or upon an exostosis of its trans- verse process, or a similar tumour growing from tlie neighbouring portion of the os occipitis, or petrous portion of the temporal bone. By these causes, the anterior, or posterior arch, or one of the sides of the atlas, has been made to intercept a third, the half, and even two-thirds, of the diameter of the foramen magnum. Notwithstanding these changes, life may be carried on, and the nutritive functions per- formed sufficiently well to afford time enough either for the exostoses to attain a large size, or for the ankylosis, binding together the head and most of the cervical vertebraj, to acquire great solidity. The size of the foramen magnum, and the dimen- sions of the vertebral canal iii the neck, are con- siderably beyond what would be necessary for simply containing the spinal marrow, so that the free lateral movements of the head and atlas can be executed without any risk of pressure on that im- portant part. Hence spontaneous displacement can occur in these cases to a considerable degree, with- out impairing the functions of the spinal cord. (Lcnvi-eiice, in Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xiii. p. 411.) According to Boyer, the atlas is never found free and distinct, when thus displaced ; butis confounded at least with the os occipitis, and mostly with five or six of the subjacent vertebra. And, another interesting fact is, that, in cases of this description, the joint between the atlas and occiput is never the only one which is displaced and deformed, unless the disease be very slightly advanced; for, the arti- culation of the processus dentatus with the atlas, and sometimes that of the point of the same process with the occiput, are considerably affected. Some- times the processus dentatus and the occiput retain their natural position with respect to each other, and the atlas alone seems to be displaced between them. Sometimes the second vertebra is out of its place with respect to the os occipitis, in the same direction as the atlas, but not in quite so great a degree. Lastly, in some other instances, the two vertebraj are twisted in opposite directions ; as, for instance, one to the left, the other to the right ; or vice versa. In one of the cases, recorded by Sandi- fort, this kind of lateral displacement in opposite directions was so extensive, that an interspace, only six lines in breadth, was left between their ap- proximated annular margins. An instance was seen by Duverney, where the displacement of the two vertebra was from before backw.ard, and where the processus dentatus was approximated to the posterior arch of the atlas to the extent of two- thirds of the annular opening in this vertebra. Iji these cases, nothing can be more obvious, than that there must be a destruction, or, at all events, a thoroughly diseased state of the ligaments between the atlas and dentata, and of those connecting the dental process to the occiput. {liitye.r. vol. cit. p. 105.) As for the treatment of the preceding forma of dise.ise, experience has hitherto furnished little satisfactory knowledge. But, as an analogy is seen between these cases and the scrofulous and carious affections of other joints, blisters, sotons, and issues, have been proposed and tried. Rust found these remedies only capable of retarding the progress of the disease, and of producing an abatement of the symptoms. The pain often reaching from the back DISLOCATION. 50.9 of the head to the forehead, was rendered less severe ; and the difliculty of swallowing was con- siderably lessened. But the means here specified were not found adequate to arrest the morbid change in the bones. However, Rust thinks that greater benefit might be expected, if a case were to present itself arising altogether from a local cause, without its origin being connected with constitu- tional disease. {Salzburger, Med. Chir. Zeitung, jahrgang, 1813, b. ii. p. 108.) In a later work, he adverts to some examples, in which a cure was effected by nature. Indeed, the occasional termi- nation of the disease by ankylosis is a full proof of this fact. {Arllirokakologie, % 118.) 2. Dislocation of the first cervical vertebra from the second. — The rotatory motion of the head is chiefly performed by the first vertebra moving on the second. AVhen this motion is forced beyond its proper limits, the ligaments which tie the processus dentatus to the edge of the foramen magnum are torn ; and, supposing the head to be forced from the left to tlie right, the left side of the body of the second vertebra is car- ried before its corresponding articulating surface, while the right side falls behind its corresponding surface. Sometimes the processus dentatus, whose ligaments are ruptured, quits the foramen formed for it by the transverse ligament and the anterior arch of the first vertebra, and presses on the medulla oblongata. But, according to Boyer, the processus dentatus may be displaced in two ways : 1st, It may be carried directly backwards, the transverse and other ligaments being broken. This mode of displacement Boyer considers as the most difficult and uncommon, as it can hardly take place except from a fall from a great height upon the back of the head, while the spine is bent forwards. (Traiie desMal. Chir. t. iv. p. 109.) However, the acci- dent may happen in another manner, as in Sir C. Bell's instance, where it occurred from the chin striking against a curb-stone. {Surg. Obs. vol. i. p. 150.) •2ndly, In a violent rotation, in which the face is carried sideways beyond the proper limits, the lateral and accessory ligaments of the processus dentatus may be stretched and twisted spirally round this process. The force operates entirely upon them, and not at all upon the transverse liga- ment. Now when the lateral and accessory liga- ments of the processus dentatus have given way, and an effort to incline the head to one side is kept up, one of the sides of the space, bounded by the transverse ligament, may present itself near the point of the processus dentatus, which may then pass below the transverse ligament without ruptur- ing it. In cliildren, whore the processus dentatus is not fully developed, and the ligaments are weaker than in the adult, a perpendicular impulse may break the lateral and accessory ligaments, and then force the processus dentatus under the transverse liga- ment, without rupturing this latter part ; as Boyer conceives must have been the case in the child which J. L. Petit mentions as having been instan- taneously killed by being lifted up by the head. [M. Malgaigno mentions a case "in which the odontoid process was displaced behind the trans- verse ligament, although only one of the odontoid liganu!nts had given way A man, a!t. CO, fell from a considerable height upon his head. The fall cause J symptoms of .severe "cerebral commotion,"