won of these effects is, the compression of the heart and lungs. (See Laeniiee, On Diseases of the Chest, hy Forbes, p. fa'70", ed. 2.) Amongst its worst eifects are those which it produces on the trachea and bronchi ; for though the pressure be slight, it often suffices, in consequence of the great irritabilitj' of these parts, to produce considerable dyspnoja. It must not be imagined, however, that ' dilatation is an unimportant ail'ection ; for, when complicated with hypertrophy of the heart, it is one of the most formidable diseases of the organs of the circulation. {^eQ Hope, u\ Cyclop, of Pract, Med. art. Aorta.) The onlj' unequivocal general sign of an aneurism of the thoracic aorta, is a tumor presenting itself externally, and attended with an expansive heaving pulsation synchronous with the action of the heart. Many of the other general signs are acknowledged to be like those of organic disease of the heart; viz. palpitation, dyspncea, cough, tendency to syncope, terrific dreams, starting from sleep, haaraoptysis, livid complexion, cetebral or hepatic congestions, serous infiltration, &c. The identity of the general signs arises, as Dr. Hope explains, from an identity of cause ; namely, an obstacle to the circulation, which depends cither upon the aneurism alone, or conjointly upon it and a disease of the heart, to which sooner or later the aneurism almost in- variably gives birth. When, however, the general signs coincide with those learned by auscultation, they lose their ambiguit}'. (See Hope, in Cyclop, of Pract. Med. art. Aorta.) In aneurism of the aorta forming a defined tumor, violent and irregular tlirobbings frequently occur between the fourth and fifth true ribs of the left side ; the same irregularity of the pulse prevails ;is often proceeds from organic affections of the heart; sometimes a dissimilarity of the pulses in the two wrists, an effect depending upon obstruction, or obliteration of the arteria innominata or left subcla- vian ; tlie respiration is exceedingly obstructed; the voice altered ; and in a more advanced period of the malady, the patient is at times almost sufibcated, or actually perishes from thiscause. Thepressure of the internal swelling on the trachea, bronchi, and lungs, is sufficient to account for this difficulty of breathing. When the trachea, or primary bronchial divisions, are compressed by an aneurismal tumor, a harsh, wheezing, or sibiloiis sound characterises respira- tion ; and when the heart is simultaneously dis- eased, dyspnoea sometimes occurs in most severe paroxysms, threatening suffocation. (See Hojie, op. cit.) In many instances, the irritation and compression produced by the tumor occasion atrophy of the greater part of the lungs, and ab- scesses and induration throughout the portion which remains. The function of deglutition suflers inter- ruption, in consequence of the pressure made on the oesophagus, which may even be in a state of ul- ceration. Thus, in one example, " the cavity of the windpipe was nearly obliterated from the pressure of the aneurism ; and the extrcniitios of four of its cartilages lay in the fnsophagus, having entered that canal through an ulcer in its coats." {Trans, for the Improvcmcul of A fed. and Chir. Knowlcdye, vol. iii. p. fia.) After what has been stated, it cannot be surprising, that ere the disease manifests itself externally, affection of the lungs, or strictures of the oesophagus, should often be suspected. {Hodysou, p. 91 ; Porter, \n Duhl. .Jnurn. of Med. Science, vol. iv. p. 207.) On the Bupposition of a ANEURISM. 217 stricture in the cesophagus, probangs have frc- quentlj' been used. Tiie greater weakness of one radial pulse than the other, or its total extinction, may proceed from a variety of causes, independent of aneurism of the aorta, as contraction of the origin of either of the subclavian arteries from calcareous, cartilaginous, steatomatous, or other depositions; obstructions in the course of the artery produced by tumors, wounds, or subclavian aneurism, or from an ir- regular subdivision of the radial or brachial arterj-. (See Hope, in Cyclop, of Fracl. Med. art. Aorta.) An aneurism of the arteria innominata, not dis- covered till after the patient had died of suffocation, gave rise to great difficulty of drawing air into the chest, without any other symptom calculated to throw light on the nature of the disease. The aneuiismal swelling was situated behind the first bone of the sternum, and pressed upon the trachea. The front of this tube was pushed in by the tumor, so as to present a convex prominence on the inner surface, which, however, diminished its area in a very slight degree. Mr. Lawrence adduces this fact to prove that spasm of the air-cells may be the cause of great distress in breathing. "The termination of this case (says he) is °the more remarkable, inasmuch as in another patient an aneurism rising out of the arch of the aorta, and pressing on the corresponding part of the trachea, so as to produce ulceration of the internal mem- brane, under which there was a slight appearance of coagulated blood, caused no affection of the breath at all. The person died of a different com- plamt, and the discovery of the aneurismal tumor which was very small, and filled with firm lami- nated coagula, was quite accidental." (Med Chir Trans, vol. vi. p. 227.) Thus, we find in thoracic aneurisms, at least previously to their attainment of a certain size that no regularity prevails even w th regard to difficulty of breathing, the symptom, which, aprwri, one might suppose would invari- ably be present. One of the least equivocal signs of an aneurism of the thoracic aorta, is a pulsation felt under the sternum, or ribs, at the upper part of the chest iJut a positive opinion is not to be formed from this symptom alone, which has been known to be occasioned by some other kind of tumor behind the sternum, by adhesion of the pericardium to the lieart, by fluid in the cavity of this membrane, and by hypertrophy of the heart. {BaiUio's Mor- bid Anat.; and Hope, in Cyclop, of Pract. Med tivt. Aorta.) _ Then another symptom of aneurism ot the thoracic aorta, is pulsation above the sternum or clavicles. B.t this may also proceed from enlarged glands in the course of the subclavian artery, and rece.vnig its pulsation; by variv of the jugular vein at its junction with the subclavian Mr^;].ud'^So" iT""™'"- ,^ eentlenian uu'd"; /vii. M.UII, ot Southampton, atelv conmili,.,! ,„„ for a considerable throbLg felt a£rt ' 'toL n "'Hi clavicles, and which had been susnert., n l^te on the left sule a subclavian ■adial pulse in the left arm was rather weaker than the nglit. But the carotids also puis d it mmstu. force a good way up the necic; and ev ^ ttle exertmn brought on powerful beating of the cut. In a consultation with Sir Astlov Cooper these circumstances led us to set down the casi a one of d.latatmn of the groat arteries at the source ot the circulation, with an imperfect state of the