487 CORNS. I 1 4 Urinary Diseases, p. 204.) Pain in the loins, and other signs of renal irritation, are sometimes occa- sioned by copaiba, and render it necessary to dis- continue its use. In some persons it exerts a purgative action on the intestinal mucous mem- brane, and cannot be taken except in combination with small doses of opium to counteract this effect. In others, but this is more rare, it produces a red patchy eruption on the skin, of the nature of urti- caria. This eruption sometimes breaks out almost simultaneously over the v.'hole surface of the body aud limbs, causing great irritation and annoyance, and some constitutional disturbance. It subsides, however, rapidly, as soon as the medicine is dis- continued.] The common dose is from ten drops to half a drachm, two or three times a day. Mr. Brande gives the following formula:—9" ^^ueil. Acacice 3s3, Copaibee 53s tere .simul et adde gradatim, Aq. Menth. vir. 3j. Tincl. Capsici nxv.—M.ft. Haustus bis vel ter quotidie sumendus. (See Mcumal of Pharmacy, p. 70.) Copaiba may also be given in a solid form. For this purpose it may be com- bined with an alkali to form a soap, which can be made into pills, the dose being from gr, xii. to 9j. (See A, T. Thomson's Mat. Med. and Therapeutics, p. 859, ed. 2.) [The nauseating effect of copaiba may often be prevented b}' adding ten or fifteen minims of dilute sulphuric acid to each dose. In private practice, however, the most convenient mode of giving it is in gelatine capsules. The capsule is swallowed, and the gelatine becoming dissolved in the stomach, the liquid balsam escapes. The nauseous odour and taste are thus altogether avoided. Ten or twelve minims of copaiba are usually contained in each capsule. Two or three, therefore, are re- quired for a dose. A very thin membrane has also been employed as the investing substance. Cap- sules thus made," capsules organiques,''' are perhaps even still more effectual in concealing the unplea- sant flavour.] COPPER. The diacetate and sulphate are used in surgery. The former, often called lerugo or prepared verdigris, is employed as an escharotic. Mixed with an equal quantity of powdered can- tharides, it is soraeiimes applied for the removal of warts and other excrescences. [The latter, which is known by the name of blue vitriol, is used in substance as a mild and safe escharotic. In solution it also forms an useful astringent and slightly stimulating lotion to indolent ulcers. In- jections for leucorrhoea, for gonorrhcea, both in the male and female, and collyria for the eye, ore not unfrequently composed of the sulphate of copper. The strengtii adapted for these purposes is from one to five grains, or more, to the ounce of distilled water.] CORNS. Clavi. Spincti pedum. Calli. Condy- lomata, &c. A corn, technically called clavuii, from its fancied resemblance to the head of a nail, is a brawn-like hardness of the skin, with a kind of root sometimes extending deeply into the sub- jacent cellular tissue. When this is the case, the indurated part is fixed ; but while the hardness is more superficial, it is moveable. Some corns rise above the level of the skin, in the manner of a flat wart. They arc hard, dry, and insensible, just like the thickened cuticle which is formed on the soles of the feet, or on the hands of labouring people. In the first instance, a corn is n thickening of the cuticle, which is secreted by the cutis in a redundant horny form, from the influence of pres- sure. But, every thickening of the cuticle is not a corn, which term seems to Sir Benjamin Brodie only applicable where the cuticle is thickened on a a projecting portion of bone, on which the pressure is concentrated. A complete corn, he observes, is combined with the formation of a small bursa between the cuticle and the cutis. The thickened cuticle of corns, situated externally, becomes dry, hard, and horny; while that of corns placed be- tween the toes, remains soft, and in some degree moist: and hence the distinction into to-rf and so/l corns. {See Brodie in Land. Med. Gaz. iov 1835, 1836, p. 776.) Corns are entirely owing to repeated and long- continued pressure. Hence, they are most fre- quent in situations exposed to pressure, and where the skin is near bones, as on the toes, soles of the feet, &c. However, corns have occasionally been seen over the crista of the ilium, from the pressure of stays, and even on the ears, from the pressure of heavy ear-rings. Corns of the feet are usually owing to tight shoes, and, consequently, are more common in the higher classes, and in women, than other sub- jects. In females, indeed, the old ridiculous fashion of wearing high-heeled shoes was verjr conducive to corns. In shoes thus made, the weight of the body falls principally on the toes, which become wedged and compressed. Though some persons who have corns suffer little, others occasionally endure such torture from them, that they are quite incapable of standing or walking. Doubtless the great pain proceeds from the irritation of the hard corn on the tender cutis beneath, which is frequently very much inflamed in consequence of the pressure. Everything which accelerates the motion of the blood, which heats the feet, which increases the pressure of the corn on the subjacent parts, or the determination of blood to the feet, or which promotes its accu- mulation in them, exasperates the pain. Hence, the bad effects of warm stockings, tight shoes, exer- cise, long standing, drinking, &c. The pain in warm weather is always more annoying than in winter. If a person merely seeks temporary relief, it may be obtained b}-- pulling off his tight shoes, sit- ting down, placing his feet in a horizontal posture, and becoming a little cool; the prominent portion of the corn should be cut olf, as far as it can be done, without exciting pain or bleeding, and the feet should be bathed in warm water. When the bursa, under the horny cuticle, in consequence of inflammation, becomes distended with fluid, or suppurates, the pain and soreness are excessive, and the slightest pressure cannot be endured. Here the removal of the hard cuticle and letting out the confined fluid, small as it may bo in quantity, give prompt relief. (Sec Brodie, in Loud. Med. Gax. for 1!!35, 1(536, p. 9!)!).) The radical cure essentially requires tlie avoid- ance of all the above causes, and, particularly, of much walking or standing. Wide, soft shoes, should be worn. Such means arc not only re- quisite for a radical cure, but they alone very often effect it. How many wonuui become spon- taneousyl free from corns in childbed, and other confinements! Though the radical cure is so easy, few obtain it, because their perseverance ceases as soon as thev experience the wishcd-for relief,