for although it appears to have sometimes succeeded when given with this view, it not only does not always do so, but it has been known to cause an opposite efFect, sometimes producing great scalding in voiding the urine, and pains like those of labour. iMed. Trans, vol. i. p. 470.) In chordee, its utility is generally acknowledged. Persons who cannot procure rest unless they take very large doses of opium, sometimes find smaller ones answer if com- bined with two or three grains of camphor. (See Brande's Manual of Pliurmacy, p. 46.) CANCER. (Derived from the Latin cancer, a crab, to which a breast affected with this disease, and surrounded by varicose veins, was anciently fancied to have a resemblance.) Also Carcinoma, from the Greek xapx'""?. Although the terms cancer and carcinoma, considered with reference to their etymology, seem decidedly to possess little recommendation, the moderns employ them with a far more precise and settled meaning than the an- cients, unenlightened as they were by pathological anatomy. Still our knowledge of cancer is not even now sufficiently advanced to enable us to an- swer, conclusively, various questions respecting it. (See Begin, in Diet, et Med. ei de Chir. Pratiques, t. iv. p. 425.) Formerly, a vast number of morbid alterations of structure, entirely difi'erent from one another, were confounded together under the name of cancer. The French ascribe to Laennec the merit of having first demonstrated the elementary texture of true cancer, and thus freed the subject from a great deal of confusion, I believe, however, that Home, Baillie, Hay, and Abernethy, had all promulgated their observations on cancer when Laennec pub- lished. According to the latter distinguished pa- thologist, the human body is liable to two classes of accidental productions, or new formations : to the first belong certain abnormal textures, to which some of the natural tissues are more or less analo- gous : to the second appertain other abnormal tex- tures, which have nothing analogous to them in any of the primitive tissues of the body. Amongst the productions of the latter kind, Laennec arranged tubercles, scirrhus, the encephaloid, cerebriform, or (as we more frequently call it) the medullary tumor, and melanosis. Notwithstanding all or several of these abnormal elementary modifications of disease may exist in tumors vaguely called cancerous, yet, as M. B^gin well observes, and M. Laennec admits it himself, it is particularly to scirrhus and cerebriform, or medullary formations, thiit the terra cancer is applied. h\ this article, I shall exclude from consideration tubercles, which British pathologists never regard as cancerous, but generally as a form of scrofulous disease. Neither shall I enter, at present, into the subject of me- lanosis, which, though sometimes regarded as a species of cancer ; as, for instance, by M. Alibert, who terms it cancer melane (see Nusolmjie Nat. t. i. 1817, 4to.), will admit very advantageously of separate consideration. (See Melanosis.) Ac- cording to Professor Carswell, carcinoma does not admit of a precise definition, but it may be said to consist in the formation or deposition of a peculiar substance which presents a great variety of con- sistence, form, and colour ; frequently assumes a definite arrangement, and possesses a vascular or- organisalion of its own ; gives rise to the gradual destruction or transformation of the tissues in which it is situated; affects simultaneously or successively CANCER. a greater or lesser number of organs; and has a remarkable reproductive tendency. Both scirrhous and medullary cancer, have long been looked upon as malignant diseases, though not with that discri- mination and precision of meaning, which the valu- able remarks of Mr. Travers are fikely to establish. This gentleman considers carcinoma as a genus of the order "malignant diseases;" and agrees with Laennec, Carswell, and other eminent modem pathologists, in enumerating two species of it; the schirrous and medullary. It is to incurableness from causes not local, and consequently the dispo- sition to appear in more than one part at the same time, or to reappear when the first affected part has been freely removed, that Mr. Travers applies the term malignity. But if, from any local cause, a sore will not heal, or becomes gangrenous ; if, by the extension of the ulcerative process, blood-ves- sels are opened, and fatal hemorrhage ensues; if, by the profuseness of a secretion, the patient dies exhausted : if, by the incessant irritation of the nervous system, or the morbid actions set up in vital organs under a protracted symptomatic fever, life is extinguished; the circumstances of the dis- ease, viewed with reference to the above defini- tion of malignity, would not imply that its nature was malignant. (Seeil/erf. Chir. Trans, vol. xv. p. 198.) [Rokitansky enumerates the following characters of malignancy: (1) Heteroplastic structure, constituent elements being unlike those of the naturally existing tissues; (2) Infiltrating property, the morbid mass spreading to and involving all, even the most various tissues; (3) A remarkable tendency to break up and decay by saniation, not suppuration. To these Mr. Paget adds the fol- lowmg; (4) Eodension of ulceration by continual increase, and succeeding decay of the growth ■ [b) Dissemination, the original growth reproducing Itself in many difi'erent parts and tissues ; (6) Indiscriminate invasion of all tissues. Now with regard to all these, it is to be remarked that none singly are pathognomonic of cancer, " each of them may be absent in tumors having all the other fea- tures of malignancy, and certain of them may be observed occasionally in tumors that in other respects appear non-malignant." Taking, however, all these together, there is no question that where all or most of them concur, there the stamp of malig- nancy is unequivocally manifest, The term is indeed, not a scientific one, not capable of exact definition, and the features above indicated must be regarded as belonging to the most typical and marked state. In proportion as one or more of them are dimmed or effaced, so does the mali<Tnant character become diminished. It must, therd'orc be clear that the question as to whether a .Wvcn tumor IS malignant or innocent, cancerous or non- cancerous, 18 not by any moans i.lwavs to be answered by a yes or a no. If a typically malig- nant instance be represented by 10, then ,r may bo malignant as 6, 5, or 'i. ^ Considering cancerous formations as constitutinir tigenus, we may enumerate the following specie^ 1^(2) Encephaloid, (;i) CoUoid, U\ hpithehal. These seem to possess sufficicntlv strong differential characters to warrant their sepa ration from each other, and this the more especi- ally as It Boenis tolerably well established that no transformation of one species into another occurs Ul two striking peculiarities of cancerous growths B B 4