596 EA Tumors.) Lastly, the external ear is frequently the seat of scrofulous and other ill-conditioned ulcers. These cases generally require cleanliness, alterative medicines, and to be dressed with the ung. zinci, or the ung. hydrarg. nitrat., or a solution of the nitrate of silver; and sometimes, when the sores resist for a long time the effects of medicine and the usual dressings, they will soon heal up, if the treatment be assisted with a blister, or seton, kept open on the nape of the neck. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. t. xxxviii. pp. 28, 29.) [The auricle is expecially prone to attacks of exanthematous disease, both acute and chronic, and more particu- larly to the eruptions of scarlet fever and small pox, and to herpes and psoriasis; all of which are liable to extend along the auditory canal, and to implicate the membrana tympaui.] 2. 0/ the Meatus Auditorius, and its Imper- fections. This is the passage, which leads from the cavity of the external ear, called the concha, down to the membrane of the tympanum. It is partly carti- laginous and partly bony, and has an oblique and curved direction, so that its whole extent cannot be easily seen. There are circumstances, however, in which it is proper to look as far as possible into the passage. Such is the case, when the surgeon is to extract any foreign body, to remove an ex- crescence, or to detect any other occasion of deaf- ness ; [but above all, to ascertain the condition of the membrane of the tjTnpanum, and of the cavity itself when the membrane is ulcerated.] Fabricius Hildanus gives a piece of advice upon this sub- ject, not to be despised; namely, to expose the ear to the rays of the sun, in order to be enabled to see the very bottom of the passage. [As sunlight cannot always be obtained it is desirable to use artificial light. For this purpose the portable lamp made by Miller, or the gas lamp made by Weiss, may be used. For the purpose of straightening the external meatus, and of conduct- ing inwards the rays of light, a speculum must be used. The most efficient is the tubular ear specu- lum, oval at its small extremity.] The surgical operations practised on the meatus auditorius, are confined to opening it, when preter- naturally closed, extracting foreign bodies, washing the passage out v/ith injections, removing excres- cences, opening abscesses, &c. &c. The case which we shall next treat of, is the imperforation of the meatus auditorius externus, a defect with which some children are born. When the malformation exists in both ears, it generally renders tlie subject dumb, as well as deaf, for, as he is incapable of imitating sounds, which he does not hear, he cannot of course leain to speak, although the organs of speech may be perfect, and in every respect rightly disposed. In this case, the surgeon has to rectify the error of nature, and (to use the language of Leschevin) he has to give, by a double miracle, hearing and speech to an animated being, who, deprived of these two faculties, can scarcely be regarded in society as one of the human race. How highly must such an operation raise the utility and ex- cellence of surgery in the estimation of the world ! When the meatus auditorius externus is merely closed by an external membrane, the nature of the case is evident, and the mode of relief equally easy. But, when the membrane is more deeply situated in the passage, near the tympanum, the diagnosis 18 attended with increased difficulty, and the treat- ment with greater trouble. If the preternatural membrane be external, or only a little way within the passage, it is to be divided with a bistoury ; the small flaps are to be cut away; a tent, of a suitable size, is to be introduced into the opening; and the wound is to be healed secundum ariem, care being taken to keep it constantly dilated, until the cicatrisation is completed. When the obstruction is deeply situated, we must first be sure of its existence, which is never ascertained, or even suspected, till after a long while. It is not till after children are past tiie age at which they usually begin to talk, that any defect is suspected in the organ of hearing, because, until this period, little notice is taken, whether they hear or not. As soon as it is clear that this sense is deficient, the ears should alwa3-s be examined with great attention, in order to dis- cover, if possible, the cause of deafness. Some- times, the infirmity depends upon a malformation of the internal ear, and the cause does not then admit of detection. The most convenient method of making the examination is to expose the ear, which is about to be examined, to the light of the sun. In this situation, the surgeon will be able to see beyond the middle of the bony part of the meatus, if he places his eye opposite the orifice of the passage, and takes care to efface the curvature of the cartilaginous portion of the canal, by draw, ing upward the external ear. If the passage has been carefully cleansed before the examination, the skin forming the obstruction, may now be seen, unless it be immediately adherent to the membrana tj^mpani. Wlien the preternatural septum is not closely united to the tympanum, its destruction should be attempted, and hopes of effecting the object, either suddenly or gradually, may reasonably be enter- tained. According to Leschevin, the pai-ticular situation of the obstruction is the circumstance, by which the surgeon ought to be guided in making a choice of the means for this operation. If the membranous partition is so far from the tympanum, that it can be pierced without danger of wounding the latter part, there can be no hesita- tion in choosing the plan to be adopted. In the contrary state of things, Leschevin is an advocate for the employment of caustic, not only on account of the risk of injuring the tympanum with a cutting instrument, but, also because, if the puncture were ever so well executed, a tent could not be intro- duced into it, so as to prevent it from closing again. In the first case, a very narrow sharp-pointed bistoury should be used : after its blade lias been wrapped round with a bit of tape to within a line of the point, it is to be passed perpendicularly down to the preternatnial membrane, which is to be cut through its whole diameter. The instru- ment being then directed first towards one side, then the other, the crucial incision is to be com- pleted. As the flaps, which are small and deeply situated, cannot be removed, the surgeon must be content with keeping them separated by means of a blunt tent. Tlie wound will heal just as favour- ably as that occasioned in removing the imperfor- ation of the cone ha, or outer p rt of the meatus auditorius. {Prix dcVAcad. dcCldr. pp. I-2-i—126,