479 CORNEA. gas, &c., and is in its course and process of repair similar to that of other tissues. Cleanliness, pressure on the globe, and general tonic treatment will be required. The above remarks have chiefly been taken from the Ophthalmology of Dr. Carl Slellwag von Carion, vol. i. 1853. (fi.) Injuries of the cornea. Abrasion of epi- thelium. " A sliglit scratch on the surface of the cornea will sometimes scrape off a portion of its epithelial covering, and give rise to acute suffering. A minute flap of epithelium may be found doubled down, or the surface of the cornea at one small spot appears roughened. The motion of the lids causes a sudden dart of pain, and there is sometimes a considerable amount of zonular redness in the sclerotic. Instantaneous relief is caused by a drop of perfectly fresh castor oil being dropped upon the surface of the cornea. The eye should then be closed with a suitable bandage, whicb should only be removed after a lapse of several hours, for a re-application of the oil. In cases of extreme irritability, it is well to bandage both eyes for twenty-four hours, to ensure perfect repose of the injured one. As soon as a fresh layer of epi- thelium has been formed, all pain ceases, and the sclerotic redness soon subsides." (See James Dixon''s Guide to the Practical Study of Diseases of the Eye, 1855.) Foreign bodies in the cornea.—Mr. Bowman, in his Lectures on the parts concerned in the opera- tions on the eye, says:—" The existence of the anterior elastic lamina will help to explain the tenacity with which small particles of steel or other sharp angular fragments stick in the front of the cornea, only just within the surface. These will remain for many days, or even weeks, and prove the cause of much inflammation, and yet still be found difficult of extraction, which could hardly be the case if the larnellated tissue and the con- junctival epithelium were the only textures in which such particles could be imbedded.'' Mr. Dixon remarks :—" If any foreign body is seen or suspected to be fixed on or in the cornea, a careful examination of the corneal surface should be made, whatever may be the amount of irrita- tion of the eye. The surgeon commands the movements of the patient's eye by placing the point of one finger on the sclerotic, just above the cornea, and the other against the inner side of the globe; he then tilts out the foreign body, by insert- ing beneath it the thinned rounded extremity of a spatula. Bathing with warm water and resting the eye for a day or so are usually all that is required by way of after-treatment. If a sharp little fragment of metal be driven straight into the cornea, so that one end projects above the surface, it may be drawn out with a forceps. If the frag- ment strikes the eye in a slanting direction, and buries itself completely among the fibres of the cornea, a little cut must be very carefully made with a cataract-knife, through the superficial fibres of the cornea, to the extent of the whole length of the fragment, which may then be tilted out with the spatula. " If one end of the fragment extends backwards into the aqueous chamber, the other being at the same time too deeply buried in the cornea to allow of its seizure with the forceps, a broad cutting- needle is first thrust through the margin of the cornea, and then carried onwards until its anterior flat surface is brought into contact with and pressed against the point of the foreign body, which is now to be tilted out with the spatula, held in the other hand. " Bodies which are laying loose in the aqueous chambers may sometimes be got rid of by simply making an incision through the cornea sufficiently large to allow of their escaping with the aqueous humor; others may require, in addition, the aid of some forceps." Penetrating ivounds of the cornea.—" Within a few hours, the edges of a clean cut of the cornea become hazy, and the wound is at once traceable as a whitish line; but if the wound is seen while- its edges are still transparent, it may require the closest scrutiny to detect it. If the aqueous humor has drained away, the obliteration of the anterior chamber, caused by the falling forwards of the iris against the cornea, will aid the detection of the wound. We often find wounds of the cornea from blows with a stick or whip, quite indistinguishable from those done with the sharpest instruments. Wounds from blows are attended with a considerable shock to the whole eyeball, and we must be extremely guarded in our prognosis. " Treatment: Foreign bodies must be removed, and anything that can hinder the perfect adaptation of the cut surfaces ; and then absolute rest and a due performance of the nutritive functions are the main requisites. When the foreign body has gone into the eye and it can be seen, an attempt should be made to extract it ; if the iris protrudes it should be replaced with the spatula. " When a fragment of stone or metal strikes the cornea and bruises without rupturing it, very serious consequences often ensue, especially in old or enfeebled persons. Suppuration within the substance of the cornea quickly sets in ; the softening and breaking down of the corneal tissue rapidly extends, until the whole is reduced, except perhaps the extreme margin, to a greyish or buff- coloured mass. As soon as the aqueous humor escapes, the pain, which had previously been severe, subsides, and the case terminates in sta- phyloma. By supporting the patient's feeble powers with ammonia and bark, good diet, and suitable stimulants, and, if necessary, soothing pain by the use of narcotics, some check may occasionally be put to the destructive process. Whenever the cornea has been perforated, there is a likelihood of the lens having been injured, and the pupil should therefore be carefully explored. Sometimes the lens does not show any opacity until several hours after it has been wounded. The foreign body should carefully be looked for and extracted." (See James Dixo7i's Guide to the Practical Study of Diseases of the Eye, 1855.) Boiling water, when touching the 'cornea coagulates its tissue ; burning charcoal, hot metal' &c., produce an eschar. Much depends upon the duration of the contact of such substances ; the contact of the flame of a fire with the cornea is singularly dangerous to the existence of the eye ; an apparently superficial eschar of cornea and con- junctiva may be followed by suppuration of the globe. The contact of many clieniical substances render the cornea opaque ; it becomes white when alcohol, vinegar, quicklime, &c., yellow when nitric acid, and brownish-black when nitrate of silver act upon it, A long-continued contact or