ELAS. 6"30 ERYSIP Further, it is Mr. Nunneley's opinion, that those two diatheses ma}' be exhibited pure, or in every degree of intermixture, " as the limited ad- hesive type prevails it will be phlegmonoid, as the diffuseunadhesive type, erysipeloid.'' {Nunneley, On Eiysipelas. Lond. 1841.) It will be evident from this catena of opinions, that erysipelas, as a specific inflammation of the skin, has been known from the earliest times ; and not only so, but that it lias been taken as a type or specimen of a particular sort of inflamma- tion, to which the name erysipelatous was given. Further, it has always been taken for a constitu- tional, and not for a mere local malady ; it is treated as a fever, with local accidents ; and of the conditions giving rise to it, all opinion down to the antiphlogistic school of Cullen and Hunter pointed to hile, that is, to an impure state of blood caused bj' disorder of the digestive organs.] [Divisions.—The divisions of erysipelas have been numberless, according to its severity, and the depth of tissues involved, and other attendant cir- cumstances. Thus there is the erysipelas simp/ex, vel siqxrficiale, vel cuianeian, the redness moderate, of a yellow colour ; swelling slight. Erysipelas oedemaiosum, whose name declares its character. E. pMegmonoidcs, attended with great exudation into the subcutaneous tissue, and tending to wide suppuration. E. biliosum, erraticum, gangrenosum, and others, whose names require no commentary. Fenger, in his elaborate Thesis {De Erysipelate Amhulardi, Havnise, 1853) endeavours to establish a marked distinction between erysipelas ainhidans and erji-sipelas vulgaris; the former he believes to be a true exanthema, the latter simple inflammation of the skin; the former has a distinct raised mar- gin, the characteristic of specific eruptions; the fever severe, the mortality one in eight, the duration at least eleven days; the eruption tends to be sym- metrical and marches regularly, just as a liquid does when imbibed by blotting-paper. The erysipelas vulgaris, on the contrary, has but an ephemeral fever; themortalitj' one per cent.; half the cases convalescent on the fourth day; the edge of the inflamed part diffused, and gradually lost; and that it does not march regularly. Hence that the erysipelas am' bulans is a specific exanthema; the erysipelas vul- garis mere common inflammation of a patch of skin. Our own opinion is, that this division is arbitrary; and like all divisions founded on degree, is essen tially unphilosophical. How many species of scarlet fever would there be, if the cases were classified on the like basis ? It must be borne in mind, that dis- eases, as described in books, are ideas or ahstruc- lions, not separate entities limited by matter; and that it is impossible to select any cases to be in- cluded under any given name, of many of which it may not fairly be doubted whether they are fairly included or not. There are slight cases of erysipelas, as of typhoid, scarlatina, and the like, of which the nature is to be decided by analogy more than by physical proof. There seems no absolute line of demarcation between erysipelas, and unhealthy or low diffused inflammation of skin. For our purposes it will suffice if we treat of the subject under the heads of (1) the simple or cutaneous ; (2) the phlegmonous, or cellulo-cuta- neous of Nunneley; and (3) the subcutaneous erysi- pelas, or diffuse inflammation of the areolar tissue. ''Symptoms.— Simple or cutaneous erysipelas generally attacks the face and scalp, particularly if idiopathic. We may accordingly select this as a typical case for description. For a variable number of days, the patient complains of general indisposition, loss of appetite, \yeakness, and dejection ; violent headache, soire- tiraes well marked sour and bilious vomiting, and shiverings of greater or less violence. Some degree of redness, puffiness, and tenderness is then usually noticed on the nose, or low down on the forehead. Sleep is excessively disturbed by dreams, or broken, or altogether lost, or is mixed with a considerable amount of deliriiun. Soon the swelling extends over the whole face and scalp. The skin is puffed and shining, its colour varying from the palest to the most vivid redness, or again to a dusky purple, or to a decided yel- lowish cast. The redness disappears immediately on pressure with the finger, and as speedily re- turns when the pressure is discontinued. It is circumscribed by a line usually irregular. The swelling may be very slight, yet still so that some difference is felt by the finger in passing from the sound to the inflamed parts. Again, the swelling may be very considerable on the third or fourth day, from cederaatous exudation into the areolar tissue, so as to close the eyelids, and render the features indistinguishable. Some of the lympha- tics at the back of the neck may be enlarged and inflamed. The heat felt is often very great, and accompanied with vivid arterial redness ; but in this and other symptoms denoting sthenic inten- sity, there may be the greatest differences. The heat in an oedematous swelling may be scarcely above the natural. The patient feels a severe stinging, itching, smarting sensation, with intense tenderness to the touch. The whole skin is hot and dry, the pulse is frequent, the tongue white or yellowish and dirty, and the other signs of fever are present, especially headache and delirium. Then comes the event. In one case, after the face and scalp shall have been involved,— rarely in less than five or seven days (that is, about the tenth from the commencement),—the nightly headache and the fever abate, the pulse becomes slower, and the skin cool, the swelling gradually subsides, and the only vestige of the malady is a reddened or purplish colom-, with ex- foliation of the cuticle in branny scales, and usually a falling off of the hair. The cjises in which this favourable termination b}' resolution is most likely to occur, are those in which biliary disorder has preceded the attack, and has been treated by an effective course of purgatives. In a second case (and, in fact, in the majority), vesications occur, particularly about the eyelids. Serous effusion takes place from the iniiamed surface, elevating the cuticle into smaller or larger vesicles, or into bulla; like those produced by blisters ; or raising it by a soft, yellow, jelly-like deposit, which remains slightly adherent to both the cutis and cuticle. The contents of the vesicles or bulla; are transparent, sometimes nearly colour- less, but more commonly yellowish ; sometimes they consist of a thin pus ; or they maj^ exhibit a bloody or livid discolouration. The fluid loses its clearness, becoming thicker, opaque, and whitish, or yellowish. The cuticle gives way ; the fluid escapes, and incrustations form, which soon fall off", leaving the skin sound ; or they may load to superficial ulcerations. It is not often that bulla; form except on the face.