336 BLOOD, PATHOLOGY OP. in cancer, (See Cancer, Pyemia, Tubercu- losis. ) 6. The presence of materials foreign io iJie animal ecOnonri/.—These may be organic or inorganic sub- stances, introduced into the blood by absorption or otherwise. Many poisons, and a great variety of medicines, some of which are also virulent poisons, are absorbed, and may be detected in the blood or the secretions, either in their original state, or after having entered into new chemical combinations. These foreign agents may increase or diminish the molecular activity of the blood, or may modify the proportions of its constituent parts, and pro- duce complicated morbid processes in the blood it- self ; or, without any appreciable change in the blood, may be conveyed to all parts of the economy. Alcohol, chloroform, prussic acid, for instance, and most mineral and many vegetable substances, are thus detectable in the blood. A very large pro- portion of the diseases affecting the animal economy is produced by poisons in the blood. This subject, with the laws which regulate the action of poisons, is of the highest interest to the surgeon, and is treated of fully in the Art. Toxicohjemia. These morbid conditions of the blood constitute prominent features in many of the maladies, acute and chronic, to which the animal economy is liable. In some cases they are the conseq^uences of accidents and diseases, occurring locally, or originating in vital organs, or in the nervous system ; in others, they are primarily and essentially related to the proximate cause of the disease. An excess of ma- terials in direct relation to the secreting functions of particular organs, or essential to the nutrition of particular tissues, becomes a cause of hypersecretion or hypernutrition, 'and of diseases of the organs of secretion and nutrition ; an increase of salts produces diarrhoea or diabetes ; a continuous in- crease of urea produces hypertrophy of the kidney, as shown by the fact that when one kidney is de- stroyed, the renal cells of the other are augmented in number, and the organ enlarges ; an increase of hydrocarbonaceous material leads to an increased formation of adipose tissue; and an increase of the proteine compounds to hypertrophy of muscular organs. A deficiency in some essential constituent of the blood is one of the most usual causes of debility. When this deficiency is of a nature to disturb the nutrition of the nerves or the muscles, it impairs their functions, and thus causes debility. In the debility of fevers and of chronic diseases of the blood, the nutritive materials become ex- hausted. In like manner a diminution, either of the quantity of blood or in the proportion of its nutritive or eliminatory materials, produces deficiency or suppression of secretion or of nu- trition, and local or general atrophy, or degenera- tion of tissue; the particular kind of degenera- tion, as that which developes fat, depending upon the predominating constituents of the morbid blood. So also exudations depend on morbid conditions of the blood. They are fluids which separate from the mass of blood, and transude through the vessels, in disease, and are contra- distinguished from the blastemata of healthy blood ; .and although they depend, in part, upon the state of the capillary vessels through which tliey exude, whether dilated or contracted, elongated or relaxed, modifying the flow of blood tlirough their channels and upon the state of the pores in their parietes, and although they may also be influenced by nervous impressions and electrical agencies, and also by the cheniico-vital qualities of the parenchyma in which they occur, they are also very materially dependent on the actual state of the blood. These exudations are of the most variable nature ; they either become solid, or remain fluid in the tissues, and may or may not be organisable ; they comprise a liquor puris, a liquor canceris, a liquor tuberculosis, and they form the nidus or basis of morbid deposits, accumulations, and growths, as pus, molecular fibres, fibrous layers, granules, tubercle, cancer, fatty collections, parasitic vegetations, black pig- ment constituting an element of melanosis, glutinous masses constituting colloid cancer, accumulations of margarine or cholesterine, masses of mineral matter, calcareous masses, phosphate of lime. The whole of these depend on the inherent composition of the exudation, and this again on the state of the blood. When blood, otherwise healthy, becomes inflamed and stagnates in a part, the exudation developes itself into healthy pus, which differs somewhat ac- cording to the tissue and seat of the exudation ; in a tuberculous state of the blood, the exudation de- velopes imperfect pus, the pus corpuscles are ir- regular and misshapen ; and cancerous blood leads to exudations in which cancer cells are developed. Diseased blood, by attenuating the blood-vessels, or producing a morbid condition or degeneration of their coats, and rendering them weak or brittle, lays the foundation for aneurism. So also morbid states of the blood exhibit themselves in the most marked manner in pathological processes set up as the consequences of injuries, determining their na- ture and results, whether the adhesive or suppura- tive process set in, the character of the pus, the nature of an abscess or of an ulcer, and the tendency to healthy nutrition or to gangrene,—the whole depending mainly on the state of the blood. In like manner, morbid conditions of the blood act as predisposing causes of manj' local diseases. The vital fluid, deviating from its normal state, or containing foreign substances, may, mider ordinary circumstances, circulate through the organs, often for a considerable time, without deranging their functions or disorganising their structures, although liable to operate as a predisposing cause of nume- rous local afi'ections. When the blood is healthy, the nervous powers and the vigour of the organic functions enable the system to resist the effects of the ordinary existing causes of disease, such as changes of temperature, exposure to excessive heat or cold, damp, draughts of air, or the effects of the depressing passions, and the like; when, on the contrary, blood contains an excess or deficiency of its elementary or proximate principles, or has been rendered impure by foreign materials, such in- fluences become the true exciting causes of nume- rous diseases of particular structures or organs. It is thus that one person is morbidly susceptible of the influences in question, and others invariably resist them. Many individuals are habitually liable to "take cold," on exposure of the surface ; when the blood is thrown upon intonial parts, if both blood and structure be health)-, the vital dynamics are suflicient to avert any ill conse- quences ; if either be in an unhealthy state, some morbid action is liable to be set up. Ilencc, if the blood be too saline, or too viscid, or too fibnnous, or contain alcohol, or lactic acid, or other stimulat- ing or irritating particles, congestion, irritation, or inflammation of the mucous or fibrous membranes, or