ANEURISM. 23? diiiary orange. The Uimor had been daily in- creasing ; and wlien Mr. Wardrop saw it, ten days after birth, the skin had given way, and a profuse hemorrhage had talcen place. The swelling was so soft and compressible, that when squeezed in the hand it yielded like a sponge, and was reducible to one third of its original size. On removing the pressure, however, the tumor rapidly filled again, and the skin resumed its purple colour. " Con- ceiving the immediate extirpation of the tumor the only chance of saving the infant (says Mr. Wardrop), I removed it as expeditiously as pos- sible, and made the incision of the integuments beyond the boundary of the tumor ; aware of the danger of hemorrhage where such tumours are cut into. So profuse, however, was the bleeding, that, though the whole mass was easily removed by a few incisions, the child expired. " The tumor having been injected, by throwing coloured size into a few of the larger vessels, its intimate structure could be accurately e.xamined. Several of the vessels, which, from the thinness of their coats, appeared to be veins, were of a large size, and there was one sufficiently big to admit a full-sized bougie." This vessel was quite as large as the carotid artery of an infant. The boundaries of the tumor appeared distinct, some healthy cellular membrane, traversed by the blood vessels, surrounding it. On tracing these vessels to the diseased mass, they penetrated into a spongj"^ struc- ture, composed of numerous cells and canals, of a variety of forms and sizes, all of which were filled with the injection, and communicated di- rectly with the ramifications of the vessels. These cells and canals had a smooth and polished surface, and in some parts, resembled very much the cavities of the heart, fibres crossing tliem in various directions, like the chordae tendineas. The open- ing in the skin, through which the blood had escaped during life, communicated directly with one of the large cells, into which the largest vessel also passed. {Wardrop, in Afed. C/iir. Trans. vol. ix. p. 203.) This case furnishes an instructive warning to us not to attempt to cut out an aneurism by anasto- mosis, where the size of it, and the age or weak- ness of the individual, render it probable that he will not bear the Joss of blood. I lately saw a child with Messrs. Gilchrist, of Sunbury, aged about two years, with a tumor over the base of the scapula, the nature of which seemed obscure. I made an exploratory puncture in it, meaning to remove it at once, if composed of fat. But the profuse gush of blood which followed the lancet, and the pulsations felt in the swelling during the child's agitation, left no doubt about the case being an aneurism by anastomosis. As the tumor was as large as half an orange, and the cliild so young, I refrained from the attempt to cut it away, fear- ful that the bleeding might be more profuse than the little patient would bear. Mr. Lawrence, who has since been consulted, docs not recommend the operation. In tiie Section on Carotid Aneurisms, 1 have mentioned the cases, in which Mr. Travers and Mr. Dairyniple cured aneurisms by anastomosis in the orbit, by tying the common carotid artery ; a practice which has been repeated with success yery lately by Mr. Busk, surgeon to the ])rca(l- nonglit hospital sliip at Deptford. (Sec Loud. Me./. Gaz. Feh. 27, 103G.) Profes3or Pattison cured an immense finnstomosing aneurism of the cheek and side of the face by taking up the carotid artery. (See Med. and Phys. Jotirn. vol. xlviii. Jidy, 1822.) These facts prove, that aneurism by anastomosis, like many other diseases, sometimes admits of being cured, on the principle of cutting off, or lessening, the supply of blood to the part affected. However, surgeons must not be too confident of being always able to cure the disease, by tying the main artery, from which the swelling receives its supply of blood ; and the great cause of failure is the impossibility of preventing in some situations the transmission of a considerable quantity of blood into the tumor, through the anastomosing vessels. A case is recorded by Maunoir, in which he ap- plied a ligature for three days to the carotid artery, and obliterated it ; yet the benefit effected seemed to be only temporary, as, in a short time, the tumor was as large as before. (See Med. and Phys. Journ. vol. xlviii.) In fact, every vessel, artery, and vein, around the disease, seems to be enlarged and turgid ; and the inosculations are so infinite, that no point of the circumference of the swelling can be imagined which is free from them. Etienue Dumand was born with two small red marks on the antihelix of the right ear. Until the age of twelve years, the chief inconveniences were a sensation of itching about the part, occasional bleeding from it, and the greater size of this than of the other ear. The disease now extended itself over the whole antihelix, and to the helix and con- cha ; and the upper part of the ear became twice as large as natural. Slight alternate dilatations and contractions began to be perceptible in the tumor, which was of a violet colour, and covered by very thin skin. Soon afterwai-ds any accidental motion of the patient's hat was sufficient to excite copious hemorrhages, which were difficult to sup- press, and, at the same time that they produced great weakness, caused a temporary diminution of the tumor and its pulsations. At length the dis- ease began to raise up the scalp for the distance of an inch around the meatus auditorius, and the hemorrhages to be more frequent and alarm- ing. Pressure was applied to the temporal, auri- cular, and occipital arteries; but, as the patient could not endure it, the first two of these vessels were tied, the only benefit from which was a slight diminution in the pulsation and bulk of the swell- ing. This treatment did not prevent the return of hemorrhage, and therefore forty-tliree days after the first operation, a ligature was applied to the occipital artery. As the disease still continued to m.ike progress, the patient entered the IlStel Dieu, where on the 8th of April, 1818, Unpuytren tried what effect tying the trunk of the carotid artery would produce on the swelling. As soon as the ligature had been applied, the throbbings ceased, and the tumor underwent a considerable dimniution. On the eighteenth d.-iy, slight o\-pan. sions and contractions of tius diseased part of the ear were again perceptible, though the swelling had dnninished one third, and no throbbing could be distinguished in tlio nciglibniiriiig arteries. The ear was now kept compressed between two masses of charpie. On the forty-sixtli day Dnpuytreii tried what bciicHt would result from pressing the blood out of the tumor, and then covering it with jilaster of Paris. This, however, soon cracked in various places, and could not be kept on the