1083 HYPOPIUM. tected, either by physical observation or chemical research. Fibriiie was foxind to be deiicient con- stantly, by Andral, in the premonitory stage of fever; being sometimes reduced as low as 1'6, and recovery having talcen place after its reduction to 0-9 in 1000 parts of blood. During the period of excitement or reaction, however, there is always a tendency to hyperinosis, hence, it would appear, that while the mnteries morborum, in such cases, lead to the dissolution or deterioration of the fibrine, thej', at the same time, excite the molecular actions upon which the reproduction of this vital proximate constituent depends. In typhoid fevers, for in- stance, the period of increased temperature is marked by a great increase of the urea excreted, and the increase of the urea being in proportion to the temperature, to the progress of the emacia- tion, and to the rapidity of the pulse. {Dr. Warncke, lib. cit.) It is important, also, to bear in mind that the inflammation or "commotion" of the blood, which often obtains at the com- mencement of fevers, has a direct tendency to deteriorate and exhaust the blood, first of its red corpuscles, and ultimately of the fibrine; hyper- inosis, in proportion to its intensity, the more certainly and rapidly passing into a state of hyp- inosis. (See art. Hyperinosis.) Hypinosis occurs in its extreme degree in the hsemorrhagic diathesis, and in typhus and typhoid fevers, and occasionally in the exanthemata. The fibrine decreases in proportion, as the worst forms of malignant diseases progress. It occurs con- secutively to numerous affections of the solid parts, as organic diseases of the heart, apoplexy, and diseases of the nervous centres, and diseases of the lungs, liver, spleen, and kidneys. It has been shown by Dr. Hood, that there exists a marked state of hypinosia in acute mania during the period of excitement, and a correction of this state during convalescence; analysis shows that there are other radical disturbances in the composition of the blood in mania, but that a deficiency of fibrine is the most constant. {Med. CJtir. Trans. 1860, p. 159.) This is the habitual state of the blood in gout, and has been observed also in chronic rheumatism; rickets; mollitiesossium; cancer; teta- nus; chronic mental aberration; hypochondriasis; hydrophobia; chronic metallic poisoning, especially with lead; narcotism; exhaustion from excessive fatigue5 starvation; atrophy from acute diseases; Asiatic cholera; and suffocative death seizures. Hypinotic blood is liable to various complications. It may be rendered relatively and temporarily hyperinotic by inflammatory attacks in gouty subjects during the paroxysm, in the different stages of many of the above affections, and during the complications which arise; considerable changes taking place in the condition of the blood, so that it can no longer be considered simply as hypinotic. In many cases, hydrajmia constitutes one of the most important complications of qualities, the proportion of water increasing, and the albumen becoming deficient, a condition which is often pro- moted by extensive exudation; or, if the water of tlie blood is at the same time profusely effused, a tar-like inspissation may occur, with antcmia, as in cholera or profuse diarrhoea; or the salts, car- bonic acid, corpuscles, and solid constituents may decrease to such a degree, as to produce an ex- treme state of poverty or dissolution of th« blood. Hypinosis may also result from an acrimony, or a poison in the blood, and is also often associated with an oily condition and fatty degeneration of the tissues. These conditions are treated of under their respective heads. (Vide Blood-anhydrous; HETEROCHYMEasIS ; Hydr.I:MIA ; NECRiEMIA; OLjEMIA; SpANJEMIA; ToXiEMIA.) Thus, a deficiency and degeneracy of the fibrine accompanies some of the most severe and compli- cated blood affections. It constitutes one of the most fatal qualities of the blood in such cases. It has accordingly a very marked influence over many surgical diseases. As already intimated, the fibrinous defect of the liquor sanguinis predomi- nating, it is, perhaps, in all cases accompanied by other more or less obvious pathological blood- changes; but the defect in the power of fibrillation of itself appears to diminish the solidifying qualities of the blood, and the natural control over haamor- rhage. Wounds, in this state of blood, are apt to heal without inflammation, the lymph organising rapidly, and in this respect contrasting with inflam- matory blood. The newly organised parts are very weak, and apt to give way, and to degenerate. The perfect adhesion of incised wounds is prevented, for although a common cut surface will often adhere without any inflammation, it will as speedily give wa3', and is thenfoUowed by suppuration, ulceration, and haemorrhage. Exudations are distinguished by an excess of albumen, diminished coagulability and an indisposition to become organised; but they rapidly corpusculate and form pus in purulent fluids. Where fibrine occurs as a pathological exu- dation, it coagulates into a " yellowish, opaque, soft, succulent, or almost creamy clot; " or it may be a fluid containing disintegrated fibrine, in the form of films or molecular fragments; in serous mem- brane, it appears as an aplastic lymph; the clots found in the heart and blood-vessels after death exhibit the same character. {Gttlliver, Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xxii. p. 136.) This state of the blood, in a moderate degree, par- ticularly when accompanied by increased secretions, is favourable to the degeneration, liquefaction, and absorption of coagulable lymph, and of fibrinous exudations; thus the absorption of the exudations in iritis and orchitis, is promoted by a tendency to hypinosis being superinduced by mercury and bleeding. Hypinosis in a severe degree can last only for a short period; the.blood must soon either begin to recover its diminished vitality and return to its nor- mal conditions, or its vital properties become still further deteriorated, and it assumes those characters which belong to the most malignant forms of spansemia. When, in fever, symptoms of conva- lescence set in, the fibrine increases, and this occurs before any improvement of the diet to account for it, and continues during the progress of the conva- lescence. Where the red corpuscles have been in excess, they simultaneously decrease in proportion.] ITcmy Anctll. HYPOPIUM, or HYPOPYON, (from inh under; and irhov, pus.) An accumulation of a glutinous, yellowish fluid, like pus, in the anterior chamber of the aqueous lumiour, and frequently also in the posterior one. Tiiis viscid matter of hypopium, though commonly called pus, is found to be coagulating lymph, or fibrine, secreted cither by the iris or the ciliary processes. (See ATaclccnxie, On Bis. of ilia Eye, p. 572, ed. 2.) Tho symptoms portending such nn extravasation