626 ENCAI a considerable eversion of the lower eyelid. (Vol. cit. p. 189.) Fortunatelj', the truly cancerous encanthis is uncommon ; Mr. Guthrie has not seen it ; {Oporative Stirgcry of the Eye, p. 117), and Mr. Travers, who was surgeon to the London Eye Infirmary several years, never met with an instance of it. {Synopsis of Diseases of the Eye, p. 103.) The benign encanthis, how large soever it may be, is always curable by extirpation. Those in- stances, which are small, incipient, and granulated, like a mulberry, or of a fringed structure, which originate either from the caruncula lachr3'malis, or the semilunar fold of the conjunctiva, or from both these parts together, and even in part from the in- ternal commissure of the eyelids, may be raised by means of a pair of hook forceps, and cut oif from the whole of their origin, closely to their base, with the curved scissors with convex edges. In cutting out an encanthis of small size, care should be taken not to remove, together with that portion of the excrescence which originates from the caruncula lachrymalis, any more of this latter body than is absolutely necessary for the precise eradication of the disease, in order that no irremediable weeping may be occasioned. When the little excrescence has been detached from all its roots, says Scarpa, the eye must be washed several times with cold water, in order to cleanse it from the blood, and then it is to be covered with a piece of fine linen, and a retentive bandage. On the 5tb, 6th, or 7th day the inflam- mation arising from the operation entirely ceases, and the suppuration from the wound is accom- panied with the mucous appearance already de- scribed. The little wounds are then to be touched with a piece of alum, scraped to a point like a crayon, and the zinc collyrium is to be injected into the aflfected eye several times a day. If these means should not bring about the wished-for cica- trisation, but, on the contrary, the small wounds situated on the caruncula and internal commissure of the eyelids should become stationary and co- vered with proud flesh, the nitrate of silver ought to be applied to them. Excision is equally applicable to the inveterate encanthis, which is of considerable size, and broken dov^n at its body, or which forms a prominence, as large as a nut, or chestnut, with two fleshy ap- pendages extending along the inner surface of one or both eyelids. The application of a ligature to such an excrescence ought never to be regarded as a method of cure ; for the large, inveterate en- canthis never has a sufficiently narrovv neck to ad- mit of being tied. On the contrary, when the tumour is voluminous, its roots invariably extend to the caruncula lachrymalis, the semilunar fold, and the conjunctiva covering of the eyeball, often- times nearly as far as the cornea. In this state, also, the encanthis has one or two fleshy appendages, which reach along the membranous lining of one or both eyelids. Hence, though the ligature were to produce a separation of the body of the encanthis, one or both the appendages would still remain to be extirpated. The second operation could only be accomplished with the knife. In this disease, there is no foundation for the fear of hajmorrhage, to which the advocates for the ligature attach so much importance ; for, cases are recorded of considerable, inveterate encanthes being removed, without the least untoward occurrence from loss of blood. To these, Scarpa observes, he could add a great num- ber of his own, so that no doubt can now be enter- tained on this point. When the encanthis is large, and inveterate, with two extensive fleshy elongations, one on the inside of the upper eyelid, and the other on that of the lower one, we are to proceed in the following manner. The patient being seated, an assistant is to turn out the inside of the upper ej-elid, so as to make one of the appendages of the encanthis project outward. By means of a small bistoury, a deep incision is next to be made into the elonga- tion, in the direction of the margin of the ej'elid ; and then having taken hold of, and drawn it for- wards with a pair of forceps, we are to separate it, throughout its whole length, from the inside of the upper eyelid, proceeding from the external towards tlie internal angle of the eye, as far as the body, or middle of the encanthis. We are then to do the same to the liporaatous appendage on the inside of the lower eyelid. Afterwards the body of the en- canthis is to be elevated, if possible, with a pair of forceps ; but when this instrument will not answer the purpose, a double hook must be employed. This middle portion is now to be detached, partly with the bistoury, and partly with the curved scis- sors, from the subjacent conjunctiva, on the globe of the eye, from the semilunar fold, and from the caruncula lachrymalis ; dividing the substance of this last part more or less deeply, according to the depth and hardness of the large inveterate encanthis. Here it is proper to state distinctly, that when we have to deal with an old, large tumour of this nature,deeply rooted in the caruncula lachrymalis, it is not generallj' in our power to pre- serve a sufficient quantity of the substance of this part, to prevent the tears from dropping over the cheek, after the wound is healed. After the operation the eye is to be repeatedly washed with cold water. The rest of the treatment, consequent to the extirpation of a large encanthis, is almost the same as that explained in speaking of the small incipient case. Bathing the eye very frequently in the lotion of mallows, and employing anodyne, detergent collyria, are tlie best local means, until the mucous appearance, preceding suppuration, has taken place on the surface of the wound. Tiien we may have recourse to mild astringent ointments and collyria. The mildest topical applications are generally the best, both in the first stage of suppu- ration, as well as afterwards, particularly, when, together with the encanthis, a considerable piece of the conjimctiva, covering the eyeball towards the nose, and intimately connected with the body of the excrescence, has been removed. One enlargement of the lachrymal caranclc ad- mits of cure by the application of leeches, repeated scarifications, and the nitrate of silver. (See Mid- dlemore, On Diseases of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 546.) {C. Dado:) Consult Scarpa, sulle Malattie desU Occlii, ed. 5. en p. 12. Jlic/itcr, Anfangs^r. der AYundarzn. band. 2. p. 473, &c. edit. 1802. G. J. Beer, Lehre von den Auirenkr. b. ii. p. 187. 8vo. Wien, 1817. B. Travers, A Synoiisis of the Dis. of the Eye, p. 103, &c. G. J. Giit/irie, Lectures on the Operative Surgery of the Eye, 8vo: Lond. 1823. p. 117, &c. R. Middlcmore, On Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 545. 8vo. Lond. 1835. Wm. Mackenzie, On Dis. of the Eye, cd. ii. p. 254. 8vo. Lond. 1835. Carron dcPillards, Guide Pratique; tonic i. p. 454. Paris 1838. For cases of extirpation, see Piirmmin's Chirurjficn curiosn, trnnslated by fi!/vrengell, p. 59. Loniion 1700. Boueliacourt, Revue M6dicale, Avril 1842, p. 6.