AMAUROSIS. 39 advances, the brighter and more visible is the bottom of tlic eye, the paler is the colour of the iris (a tiling very conspicuous in darked-eyed per- sons) ; and when once the amaurosis is complete, so that no susceptibility of the impression of light is left, then, upon an attentive examination of the eye, one can mostly perceive, at the troubled deeper part of the eye, a slender vascular plexus, which merely consists of the ordinary ramifications of the central artery and vein. In a half-darkened place, such an eye presents a shining yellowish or reddish appearance, but only in certain posi- tions of the eyeball ; and in this respect, it is somewhat similar to the eye of a cat, whence Beer chooses to terra the complaint cat-eye amau- rosis. The disorder is also not accompanied with any other essential morbid appearances, except the decline of vision, or complete blindness. {LeJire von dai Aicgenkr. b. ii. p. 496.) Beer, in fig. 1. tab. 4. of his second vol. has given, from nature, an admirable representation of this remarkable species of amaurosis. The differences in the ap- pearances at the bottom of the eye, in this case, from those presented in the early stage of fungus haematodes of that organ, will be best understood by referring to the article Fungus H^matodes, On this point, however, I may here briefly state, that, in cat-eye amaurosis, there is no projection, but, on the contrary, a concave depression in Jhe axis of vision. Cat-eye amaurosis may be known from incipient cataract, by the opacity being more deeply situated, and having a shining pearly lustre. (See Journ. of Foreign Med. vol. iv. p. 168.) Beer observes, that the causes of this species of amaurosis are so obscure, that whatever is offered upon the subject can be received only as con- jecture. A suspicion is sometimes entertained, that a deficiency of the pigmentura nigrum, and of the tapetum of the uvea, is concerned in the pro- duction of this form of blindness. The prognosis cannot but be very unfavourable ; for, as the surgeon is ignorant of causes, he cannot know what means ought to be adopted for their removal. It is fortunate, however, that this amau- rosis rarely attains its highest degree, but almost constantly remains in the form of a more or less considerable amblyopia. Just as little is yet known respecting any well- regulated mode of treatment; but the disease may sometimes be kept from getting worse, by the care- ful employment of such general remedies, regimen, and diet, as are calculated to improve the health. However, in the most fortunately managed cases, Beer never knew a step made towards the removal of the disease. {Lehrc von den Amenkr. b. ii. p. 497, 498.) Prognosis of Amauroshs. In general, every amaurotic weakness of sight, and every completely formed amaurosis, are at- tended with the greatest probability of cure, where they began suddenly and were quickly developed. (Beer, Lehre von den Augenkr. b. ii. p. 454—4S6.) This observation perfectly coincides with the ac- count given by Schmuckcr, who says that many of these suddenly formed cases fell under his notice, and were more easy of cure than when the dis- order had come on in a more gradmil way. (See Vrrmisc/Un Chir. ScJiri/lon, b. ii.) It also agrees with what Mr. Travera has stated, namely, that slow and steadily progressive cases of amaurosis are more to be apprehended in the result, that is, are less tractable, than either the sudden, or the rapidly advancing disease, supposing all to be alike free from unequivocal signs of organic change. (Si/nopsis, p. 298.) Respecting suddenly produced cases, Mr. Law- rence holds out less encouragement than the pre- ceding authorities. The prognosis, he says, is doubtful, and rather unfavourable than otherwise, as to the complete recovery of vision, if the af- fection, even in its most recent state, should have produced complete insensibility of the retina. He thinks we should speak doubtfully of the result in the case of complete insensibility to strong light, even if it had only lasted twenty-four hours. He considers it difficult to say in what number of days, or weeks, we should give up all hopes of re- covery. In the supposed case of total insensi- bility, or even of a near approximation to it, there would be more ground for apprehension than hope, at the end of a week, though sight is some- times restored under these circumstances; but the lapse of a few weeks, without improvement, makes the case hopeless. If amaurosis be partial, and the case seen early, Mr. Lawrence says a complete cure may be ex- pected. He thinks favourably of the event when amaurosis takes place in conjunction with chronic internal inflammation, or when it is evidently caused by active congestion in the head or eye ; for that can be removed by suitable treatment. A similar judgment is delivered by Mr. Middle- more : when the case is recent, takes place in young persons, and is evidently produced by vas- cular plethora, he says the prognosis is favourable, because the remaining degree of vision proves that no important structural change has yet oc- curred, and the plethoric state of the system can be removed. (See R. Middlemore on Dis. of iJie Eye, vol. ii. p. 273.) _ Dr. Mackenzie says, that " there is scarcely any disease in which the prognosis is, on the whole, so unfavourable as in amaurosis. It is only when the disease is not yet complicated with any mate- rial disorganisation, that amaurosis yields to trea^ ment. But in the cases which do yield, the degree of the disease is not always slight, but often serious, and the attack is not always recent but often of considerable standing. It is chiefly in cases of an inflammatory or congestive nature that the disease is overcome. (On Dis. of the Eve. ed 4 p. 1030.) ^ » • > When one eye has been completely bereft o£ sight by amaurosis, and the surgeon can find outs little or no cause for the infirmitj', there is strong reason for apprehending that the other eye will, sooner or later, become blind. To this fact the exceptions are rare. According to Beer, the idea entertained by some writers is not built upon e.xperience, that amaurotic patients, in whom the iris is still move- able, and the pupil not much dilated, are more easily and frequently cured than others in whom the ins IS perfectly motionless and the pupil ex- ceedingly dilated. For sometimes, during the treatment, or even spontaneously, the iris, after being quite immoveable, recovers its powers of motion, yet the patient may not, at the s.-ime time, regain the slightest degree of vision ; and, on the othor hand, many cases of perfect amaurosis are I) 4