994 dry gangrene, such as that which affects the cord itself, will supervene. The principle upon which the treatment should he conducted is, to reduce the displaced -piscera; to approximate the margins of the deficiency in the abdominal wall; and to endeavour to eifect successfully the sloughing and separation of the hernial sac; which it will be re- membered is formed of the covering of the cord and its vessels. Whether metallic sutures, hare-hp pins, quill sutures, or simply methodically ar- ranged compresses and bandage are to be had recourse to, in order to effect these desirable ob- jects, must be left to the judgment and ingenuity of the surgeon, in each individual case.] Umbilical Hernia in Children. The umbilical hernia, which is sometimes formed in the foetus as above described, takes place, in other instances, at the moment of delivery ; and then, as Sabatier remarks, should it be tied by mis take, with the funis, death would be the conse- quence. Most frequently, however, it is not till the second, third, or fourth month after birth that the disease occurs; and the numerous cases, collected by Desault, prove that, of ten infants at- tacked with this hernia, nine become afflicted at the periods here specified. The umbilicus, still open, now begins to con tract, so as to close the cicatrix, which soon forms an obstacle capable of preventing a protrusion of the viscera. Sometimes, however, the repeated crying of the child propels the viscera through the opening, and thus the closure of the cicatrix of the navel is prevented. By degrees, the umbilical ring becomes more and more dilated, the quantity of protruded bowel increases, and thus a tumor arises, which, from being of trivial size at.first, at length attains the size of an egg, or large walnut, and presents itself with all the characteristic marks of a hernia. The presence of a piece of intestine and omentum in the tumor keeps the umbilicus open, and op- poses the continual tendency which it has to close. Such tendency, however, being sometimes superior to the resistance of the protruded parts, forces them back into the abdomen, obliterates the opening through which they passed, and thus the sponta- neous cure of the umbilical hernia in children is accomplished. Two cases illustrative of this fact are related by Bichat. {CEuvres C/iir. de Desault, t.ii. p. 318.) Nature, however, does not effect many such cures; and when the case is left to her alone, she not only fails in bringing about a radical cure, but gradually renders it impossible. In short, the pro- pensity of the opening to close diminishes, and is lost, as the subject grows older. Thus, the umbilical hernia of children seems to be essentially different from that of adults, in the tendency of the aperture to contract. Hence the ease of effecting a radical cure in children, and the almost utter impossibility of doing so in adults. In the former, it is enough to keep the intestines from protruding, and the opening becomes of itself obliterated; in the latter, the opening always re- mains, whether the bowels continue in it or not. This indisposition of the aperture to contract in the adult, also frequently depends upon the protrusion not being through the umbilical ring itself, but through a fissure in the vicinity of it, not endued with the same natural tendency to close, which the HERNIA. umbilicus possesses in young subjects. In fact, t would appear from the observations of Scarpa, that, unless a grown up person has had the pro- trusion from infancy, it never occurs exactly through the umbilical ring itself. The means of curing the umbilical hernia of children, are compression, and the ligature. The former is the most modem; the latter the most ancient treatment, being mentioned by Celsus. The design of both is the same, viz. to prevent the lodgement of the protruded viscera in the opening of the umbilicus, and thus facilitate the approxima- tion of its sides. To accomplish this end, the liga- • ture retrenches the hernial sac, and skin pushed before it; and, by the union of the cut parts, a cicatrix is produced, which hinders the protrusion of the viscera. At the same time the sides of the opening, obeying their natural tendency, compres- sion closes the defirfency, or opening, in the parietes of the abdomen, hinders the protrusion of the bowels, and keeps these parts from resisting the contraction of the sac. Desault's method, which much resembled that of Saviard, is described by Bichat. The child must be placed on its back, with its thighs a little bent, and its head inclined towards the chest. The surgeon is to reduce the protruded parts, and to hold them so with his finger, at the same time that he raises the hernial sac, and rubs its sides between his fingers, so as to be sure that there is nothing contained in it. Being certain, that the parts, which he lifts up, are only the skin and sac, he is to direct an assistant to surround their base several times with a waxed ligature, of middling size, each turn being tied with a double knot, in such a manner as only to occasion little pain. The tumor, thus tied, is to be covered with lint, which is to be supported with one or two compresses, and a circular bandage, secured with a scapular}'. By the following day, a slight swelling has commonly taken place in the con- stricted parts. On the second, or third day, the parts shrink, and then the ligature becomes loose, so that a fresh one must now be applied in the same manner as the first, taking care to draw it a little more tightly. The sensibility of the parts, increased by the inflammation, which the con- striction of the ligature has already produced, usually renders this second ligature more pamful. After the operation, the same dressings as at first are to be applied. The tumor soon becomes dis- coloured, livid, and smaUer. A thu-d ligature, put on in the same way as the preceding ones, entirely obstructs the circulation in it. The part turns black and flaccid, and commonly falls off on the eighth or tenth day. A small ulcer is left, which, being properly dressed, very soon heals, and leaves a cicatrix sufficiently strong to resist the impulse occasioned by coughing, or other efforts of the abdominal muscles. For two or three months, however, after the operation, the child should wear a circular bandage, in order to prevent, with still greater certainty, the viscera from being propelled against the cicatrix, so as to interrupt tne process of nature, which is now producing a gradual closure of the umbilical opening. Mr. Pott notices the plan of curing the exom- phalos with the ligature, and expresses himseii strongly against the practice in general. -L o sa"'" the plan is not applicable. Mr. Pott was de- cidedly in favour of compression ; and he observes, that in young subjects, and small hemu-e, a uanu-