ARTERIES. 284 perfect nor so permanent, !is at tlie upper end ; and that the internal coaguliim (see H-TiMoa- khage) is in many instances altogether wanting, or very defective in its formation (p. 251). In this work Mr. Guthrie censures the common fear about cutting muscular fibres, in operations to secure wounded arties ; and, in support of his own view, points out the inconveniences at- tending the plan of taking up the posterior tibial artery, as described by Mr. Harrison (see Sur- gkalAnai. of the Arteries, p. 177, vol. ii. ed. 2). Instead of this, he is an advocate for dividing mus- cles entirel}', or the fibres of a muscle, by an ex- tensive transverse incision, if likely to facilitate the application of the ligature to a wounded artery (p. 261). This last maxim, however, is not en- tirely new, Desault having long ago recommended cutting the sartorius across to get at the femoral artery ; Scarpa, the pectoralis major, to get at the wounded axillary artery; and Dupuytren, the an- terior scalenus, to reach a particular point of the subclavian. Mr. Guthrie disapproves of the direc- tions given in some of the latest works for the ligature of the wounded posterior tibial and axillary arteries, and makes some remarks on " the manner of securing the ulnar artery, when wounded a little below its origin, and whilst covered by the pronator teres, and the superficial flexors of the forearm ; viz. the flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor digitorura sublimis. Here, instead of regarding the operation as impracticable on account of the intervention of these muscles, or tying the brachial artery, he is an advocate for making a clean incision down to the artery, through all the muscular fibres interposed between it and the surface, avoiding the median nerve, which runs between the two origins of the pro- nator teres, and placing a ligature above and below the wound in the artery" (p. 271). "It is necessary to be attentive to the course of the great vessels and nerves, but not to the safety of muscu- lar fibres, the division of which leads to no per- manent injury" (p. 319). Mr. Guthrie also strongly protests against Dupuytren's practice of tying an artery injured by gun-shot, or a fractured bone" above the place of injury, instead of exposing the vessel at the wounded point, and applying a ligature above and below the opening in it ; a subject which I shall notice in subsequent articles. (See Fracture and Gun-skot Wounds.) The principle, respecting the application of a ligature to each end of every large divided artery, is to be extended also to punctured arteries, one ligature being placed above, and the other below the opening in the vessel.. When an artery is merely cut or torn, but not completely divided, it seems to Mr. Guthrie to be in the same state, with regard to hamorrhage, as if it had given way by ulceration. It can neither retract nor contract; and unless pressure be ac- curately applied and maintained, will continue to bleed until the patient is destroyed. " The practice to be pursued (says he), is to divide the vessel, if it be a small one, such as the temporal artery, when it will be enabled to retract and contract, and the bleeding will soon cease. If an artery of larger dimensions be wounded, a ligature should be applied above and below the wound ; and tile vessel may, or may not, be divided between them, at the pleasure of the surgeon, {On Dis. and of Arteries, p. 2.5.').) From some observations in the article Aneu- rism, it will be seen, that when the impulse of the circulation has been lessened by the ligature of the main trunk of an arterj', some distance above the wound, the hemorrhage from the more remote portion of the vessel may sometimes be efifectually restrained by pressure, which, previ- ously to the stoppage of one great current of blood to the part, had proved unavailing. This fact is worth remembering in cases in which the arteries of tile hand or foot are wounded. Mortification is observed to be more frequent after the ligature of an artery for a wound than for an aneurism. In wounds Mr. Hodgson, very correctly, I think, refers the difference to the fre- quent injury of the surrounding parts, and parti- cularly of the veins and nerves, and to the loss of blood, and want of quietude, and proper care, after tlie accident. The principal anastomising vessels are also sometimes divided (p. 479). In the article Aneurism, I noticed the questions about the propriety and safety of tying both caro- tids, and whether this could be done without extra- ordinary risk, when no interval was left between the two operations. With respect to these points, I find that M. Manec is decidedly of opinion, that both the common carotid arteries may be tied at once in the same individual, without any marked or lasting derangement in the functions of diflterent parts of the head. He believes that the numerous anastomoses which exist in the interior of the skull, between the terminating branches of the vertebral arteries and those of the internal carotid, are more than sufficient for the ready conveyance of blood from the former into the latter, and for the prevention of the brain from being sensibly affected by the obliteration of the two common carotids. Externally, the numerous communica- tions between the branches of the external carotids, and those of the two subclavian arteries, more particularly the free anastomosis of the lower thyroid with the superior thyroid arteries, and those of the ascending cervical with the occipital arteries, leave no doubt in M. Manec's mind re- specting the correctness of the opinion which he has advanced. He has frequently tied both the common carotids in animals, without the slightest impairment of tiieir intelligence, or of their general health. At the period wlien*e was recording his views of this subject, tiiere was in the dissecting- room of the hospital a large strong healthy dog, on which he had performed this operation four years previously; and whose intelligence continued per- fectly undiminished. So fully convinced is M. Manec of the safety with which it may also be practised on the human subject, that he wished to undertake it on a young man who had an extensive tumor of erectile tissue on the face, but who would not submit to the proposal. (Sec Manec, Traiie, ^'c. de la Lig. des Arleres, pi. iv.) Having explained in the article Aneurism the plans adopted by some of the most celebrated operators, in cutting down to and tyuig many of the principal arteries, I will now introduce some ad- ditional instruction on this very important subject. Perhaps, in no operation of tying an arterj-, is the exclusion of tlie vein and nerves of so much consequence as it is in that of applying a ligature to the common carotid artery. As Dupuytren remarks, this fact depends upon the importance ot the organs to which the adjacent nerves are dis-