however, and more correct infoniiation, respecting the kind of displacement, are to lie obtained, by attentively examining the changes of position, which certain processes, or prominent points of the dislocated bone, or bones, have undergone, and which are the more obvioii? in these joints, inasmuch as they give attachment to the principal muscles. Tlie natural relations of these pro- cesses being known, the least error of situation ought to strike the well-informed practitioner. Thus, in the elbow-joint, a considerable differ- ence in the respective height, and in the distances between the olecranon and internal and external condyles, can be easily distinguished. But the thing is less easy when the surrounding parts are so swelled and tense as to make the bony pro- jections deeper fi-om the surface, and less obvious to examination. Even then, however, a good surgeon will at least find something to make him suspect the dislocation, and the suspicion will be confirmed when he again examines the part after the swelling has begun to subside. It is of the utmost consequence to make out what the case is as early as possible ; for the unnatural state in which the soft parts are placed, keeps up the swelling a long while ; and if the surgeon wait till this has entirely subsided before he ascertains that the bones are luxated, he may have waited till it is too late to succeed in reducing them, and the patient may remain for ever afterwards de- prived of the free use of his limb. {Boyer, Traite cles Maladies Chir. t. v. p. 45, &c.) It is not only the inflammatory swelling which may tend to conceal the ends of the bone ; sometimes a quicker tumor arises from the effusion of blood in the cellular tissue, and causes an equal difficult}'- of feeling the exact position of the heads of the bones. (See iSi'r A. Cooper, On Didocaiions, p. 5.) Dislocations are sometimes attended with parti- cular symptoms, arising altogether from the pres- sure caused by the head of the luxated bone on certain important organs. Thus, the sternal end of the clavicle may compress the trachea, and impede respiration ; the head of the humerus may press upon the axillary plexus of nerves, and pro- duce a paralytic alToction of the whole arm. In one instance, cited by Sir A. Cooper, a dislocated clavicle pressed upon the oesophagus and endan- gered life. {Surff. Essays, part i. p. 4.) As Kirkland has observed, some luxations are worse injuries than fractures : of this description, are dislocations of the vertebra;, cases which seldom happen without fracture, and are mostly fatal ; dislocations of tlie long bones, attended with protrusion of their ends through the skin, and even a comminution of them, which may be followed by severe inflammation, extensive ab- scesses, necrosis, and not unfrequontly gangrene. According to Sir A. Cooper, young persons are rarely the subjects of dislocations from violence ; but, he admit?, that they do sometimes experience them, and relates an instance, which happened in a child seven years of age. In general, in them the bones break, or the epiphyses give way, much more frequently than the articular surfaces arc displaced. (Aov/. Essays, part i, p. Ki ; and Treatise, ^x. p. 2.3.) Suspected luxations of the hip in children commonly turn out to be disease of the joint, one instance of whicli is given by the preceding author. For such examples I have also been sometimes consulted, Also, when a dis- ::ATI0N. 497 location of the elbow is suspected in a child, because the bone appears readily to return into its place, but directlj' to slip out of it again, the case is always found to be an oblique fracture of the condyles of the humerus. Old persons are less liable to dislocation than individuals of middle age ; a fact which is accounted for by the extrem- ities of bones in old subjects being so softened, that the violence sooner breaks than luxates them. {Sir Astley Cooper, On Disloc. 4'c. p. 23.) [This statement of Sir A. Cooper lias been called in question byM.Malgaigne,-who has shown, on the contrarj', that beyond the age of 65, if due regard is paid to tlie population, the proportion of dislocations, instead of diminishing, becomes con- siderably greater than in adult age. He has also shown that beyond 60 years, the proportion of fractures, the comparison being made with refer- ence to the population, does twi iiicrease, but tends rather to diminish ; and his investigations led him to the unexpected result, that the tendency to fractures, as compared with dislocations, is even less in old age than at other periods of life. {Traite. des Fract. ^c. t. ii. p. 5 ; and Eludes Statistiques stir les Luxations, Ann. de Chir. 1841, p. 149.] Prognosis. In general, every unreduced dislocation must deprive the patient more or less of the use of the limb or part; for nature cannot re-establish the natural relations which are lost. There is indeed an effort made to restore some of the motions, and the use of the limb in a certain degree ; but it is always imperfectly accomplished, and, in the best cases, only a confined degree of motion is recovered. Nature cannot in any way alter the lengthened or shortened state of the limb ; and she can only correct, in a very imperfect manner, its faulty direction. There are even some cases, in which little or no amendment can be effected. Generally, however, after a time, some degree of motion is' regained, and the limb, or part, becomes to a certain extent more useful than at first, This statement .applies even to dislocations of the hip, shoulder, lower jaw, elbow, thumb, &c. If there are any exceptions to these observations, they are in young subjects, or in arthrodial joints, which are seldom extensively displaced ; and a?, in the natural state, their motions are but limited, the loss of tliese motions, in consequence of the natur.al relations not having been restored, is of less importance. Thus, the bones of the carpus, those of the tarsus, .and the acromial end of the clavicle, may be dislocated, and be reduced either imperfectly, or not at .all, without the functions of the limb Ijeing materially impaired. {Boycr, Ma- ladies Ckir. t. iv. p, 54.) Dislocations of eiiarthrodial, are generally less dangerous than those of ginglymoid joints ; for the .action of the muscles has some share in pro- ducing them ; the violence done to the external parts is less ; and the injury of the soft parts is not so considerable. Even in the same kind of joints, the seriousness of the case materially depends on the extent of the articular surfaces, "and tlio num- ber and strength of the muscles and ligaments. Dislocations of ginglymoid, however, are more easily reduced than those of enarthrodial joints, the muscles of which are powerful, and capable of making great resistance to the efforts of tlio surgeon. \\ K