508 EAK, casionally met with in tlie osseous part of the canal, arising from enlargements from the bono; these, liowever, are growths occurring at any interval after birth; they may he one or several from opposite siuCices of the meatus auditorius, more or less near to, or even in contact with the mem- brane; but the writer has not yet positively known them to encroach upon the cavity of the tympanum. The skin covering them is bright, polisiied, vascular, and dry, the result of dis- tention. The interspace between these exostoses usually admits the sonorous waves, and then the sense of hearing is little or not at all impeded; but the small aperture is so likely to be occupied by cerumen and other secretions from the canal, that deafness is a frequent result; further, the bony growths may become so firmly approximated as to totally close the tube. These tumors may be diminished by the use of iodine locally and gene- rally, and no operation for their removal must be attempted.] 3. Unusual Smallness of the Meatus Audito7-ius Exlernus. Imperforation is not the only congenital imper- fection of the meatus auditorius; this passage is occasionally too narrow for the admission of a due quantity of the sonorous undulations, and the sense is of course weakened. Leschevin mentions that M, de la Metrie found this canal so narrow in a young person, that it could hardly admit a probe. What has bren observed concerning the imper- foration, is also applicable to this case. If it depends upon malformation of the bone, it is manifestly incurable ; but, if it is owing to a thickening of the soft parts within the meatus, hopes may be indulged of doing good by gradually dilating the passage with tents, which should be increased in size from time to time, and, lastly, making the patient wear, for a considerable time, a tube, adapted to the part in shape. {Leschevin, 111 Prix de I'A cad. de Chirurgie, t. ix. p. 1 32.) Mr. Earle has published a case, in which the diameter of the meatus auditorius was considerably lessened by a thickening of the surrounding parts, and especially of the cuticle, attended with a dis- charge from the passage, and great impairment of hearing. A cure was effected by injecting into the passage a very strong solution of the nitrate of silver, which, in a few days, was followed by a detachment of the thickened portions of cuticle. This evacuation was assisted by throwing warm water into the passage. (See Med. Chis: Trans. vol. X. p. 41 ], &c.) Boyer was consulted for a deafness, arising from a malformation, which con- sisted of a flattening of the meatus, its opposite sides being for some extent in contact. The patient was advised to wear in the ear a gold tube of suitable shape, by which means he was enabled to hear perfectly well. [It must be confessed that such congenital defects rarely fall under treatment, but acquired narrowness of the canal, that conse- quent upon chronic inflaTumation, of various cha- racters, is not at all infrequent; but the hearing power is not diminished thereby.] 4. Fatdty Shape of the Meatus Auditorius Hxternus. Anatomy informs us, that this passage is natu- rally oblique, and somewhat winding; and natunil philosophy teaches ua the necessity of such obli- quity, which multiplies the reflections of tiie sonor- ous waves, and thereby strengthens the sense. This theory, says Leschevin, is confirmed by experience ; for, there are persons, in whom the meatus auditorius is almost straight, and they are found to be hard of hearing. If there is any means of correcting this defect, it must be that of" substi- tuting, for the natural curvature of the passage, a curved and conical tube, which must be placed at • the outside of the organ, just like a hearing trumpet. The acoustic instrument, invented by Deckers, which is much more convenient, might also prove useful. (Op. cit, p. 133.) [Experience readily teaches us, however, that such defects occur without producing inconvenience, at least that is to be appreciated ; it most probably happens that the deficiency in hearing is supplied by an exaltation in function of the auditory nerve, occurring at an age before the defect is perceived.] 5. Extraneous Suhstances, Insects, 8,-c., in the Meatus Auditorius Exiernus. Foreign bodies met with in this situation are inert substances, which have been introduced by some external force ; insects, which have insinuated themselves into the passage ; or the cenimen itself, hardened in such a degree, as to obstruct the trans- mission of the sonorous undulations. Worms, which make their appearance in the meatus audi- torius, are always produced subsequently to ulce- rations in the passage, or in the interior of the tympanum, and very often such insects are quite unsuspected causes of particular symptoms. In the cases of surgery, published in 1778, by Acrel, there is an instance confirming the statement just offered. It is the case of a woman, who, having been long afflicted with a hardness of hearing, was suddenly seized with violent convulsions, without any ap- parent cause, and soon afterwards complained of an acute pain in the ear. This affection was followed by a recurrence of convulsions, which were still more vehement. A small tent of fine linen, moistened with a mixture of oil and laudanum, was introduced into the meatus auditorius, and, on removing it the next day, several small round worms were observed upon it, and from that period all the sj-mptoms disappeared. To this case, we shall add another from Morgagni:—A .young woman consulted Val- salva, and told him, that when she was a girl, a worm had been discharged from her left ear ; that another one, about six months ago, had also been discharged, very much like a small silkworm in shape. This event took place afier very acute pain in the same ear, the forehead and temples. She added, that since this, she had been tormented with the same pains, at different intervals, and so severely, that she often swooned awaj' for two hours together. On recovering from this state, a small worm was discharged, of the same shape as, but much smaller than, the preceding one, and she was now afflicted with deafness and insensibility on the same side. After hearing this relation, Valsalva no longer entertained any doubt of the membrane of the tymp.anum being ulcerated. He proposed the employment of an injection, in order to destroy such worms as yet remained. For this purpose, distilled water of St. .John's wort, in which mercury had been agitated, was used. In order to prevent an occurrence of tiie inconvenience, JMor- gagni recommends the aft'ected ear to he closed up when the patient goes to sleep, in autumn and