812 , ,. , GUNSHOT WOtJNDS Sli'^TiV-ll ^- p. 185)/l an, disposed to bel.eve that whenever the situation of the ball ,s such that it can be removed at once irom a bone with tolerable certainty, and without too much irritation, the practice is commendable. As soon as the requisite incisions have been made, and foreign bodies extracted, the prime objects in the treatment of gunshot wounds are accomplished; and the rest is, in reality, not dif- ferent from the surgery of other wounds. _ With regard to probing gunshot wounds, when itis evidentthatthe shot has passed out, and no particular object can be fulfilled with the probe, it is ofcen better to dispense with such examination, at least till suppuration has come on. The needless use oi a probe causes unnecessary pain and irrita- tion. But when the ball, or any other extraneous substance, has lodged in the wound, and its situa- tion is not immediately evident, it will often be advisable to search for it at once, in order that it may be extracted, if its situation will allow, before inflammation begins. The surgeon, therefore, con- sidering all the circumstances which can assist him in forming a reasonable conjecture of the course 01 the wound, must give to a probe that curvature, or form, which he thinks most likely to pass readily along It, and must then proceed to make the ex- amination. But when this is very painful, and the course of the wound obscure, it ivill often be better to desist, and renew the search when suppura- tion has taken place, in which stage it can be un- dertaken with more ease, and a greater prospect of success. When gunshot wounds are inflamed, the tenderness and swelling of the parts are peculiarly strong reasons against painful probings, or efforts to extract foreign bodies, as long as this state lasts. {See C/ievaliei- on Gunshot Wounds, p. 67, 68. ed. 3.) [The external means of treatment applied to gun- shot wounds in the present day are as simple as possible. A piece of linen or lint moistened with warm or cold water, and covered witli oil silk or gutta percha tissue, and retained on the part by a fold or two of linen bandage lightly applied, is all that is necessary. I never used any other in any of the cases that I had occasion to treat before Sebastopol, and I never had any reason to regret the practice. Ointments, pledgets of lint, adhesive plasters, are all generally unnecessary. When suppuration has been established, a bread poultice may be then usefully substituted, and should the discharge be fetid and the surface of the wound or stump foul, pulverised charcoal sliould be sprinkled oyer it. A yeast or carrot poultice is a good ap- plication in such condition of wounds; but these cannot be always obtained on the field. The poultices should be frequently renewed. When the discharge has diminished, and the surface of the wound or stump has assumed a liealtliy cha- racter, the cold water dressing is to be re-applied and the poultice discontinued. One has rarely to have recourse to strong antiphlogistic measures in these injuries ; but they must be resorted to if necessary, as in other wounds. Care, however, Sliould bo taken that the patient's strength is not too much reduced, lest it be inadequate to support le very frequently copious and long-continued suppura ion which often ensues upon these wounds.] esncci'Illv ' T"""?'' "'"'^^"^ ""''""■y l>03pitals, low d nf ""^T ^^"y established in unhealthy 'OH, (lamp situations, and due attention is not paid to ventilation and cleanliness, are liable to beat- tacked by hospital gangrene, a most serious and dan- gerous complication. (See Hospital Gangrene.) Another formidable and generally fatal complica- lon IS traumatic tetanus. (See Tetanus.) A larly the phlegmonous kind. . f For a few days, the matter seldom assumes a healthy appearance; but as soon as the sloughs separate, it then becomes of a proper quality, and IS to be treated as an ordinary wound. As Du puytren remarks, when the patient has got through all the dangers of the earlier stages of gunshot ^younds, hemorrhage, gangrene, phlegmonous ery- sipelas, etanus, and other perils, stiil await him. 1 he fractured bones unite with difficulty; sinuses and deep abscesses form in the limb : the peri- osteum becomes detached ; the bones denuded- and attacked by necrosis. Nor is this all the mis- chiel: fractures of bones abounding in spongy texture are liable to be complicated with inflam- mation of the cellulo-vascular membrane, invest- ing the areola of that texture, and its numerous veins. This inflammation, which is always fol- lowed by necrosis, sometimes extends a great dis- tance, and this more especially in cases where the ball has occasioned a violent concussion of the bone. Sometimes the healing process does not com- mence, though suppuration has prevailed a con- siderable time. On the contrary, notwithstanding the exhibition of tonics, and a generous diet, the suppuration ceases to proceed favourablj-, and the wound becomes unhealthy and the matter thin. Ihe bones show no disposition to unite, and the patient, reduced by hectic symptoms, is rapidlv approachmg dissolution. In this state, life may sometimes be preserved by amputation. Op Amputation in Gunshot Wounds. The second edition of this Dictionary, published in 1813, contained all the valuable observations of Baron Larrey in favour of immediate amputa- tion, in every instance in which the operation is considered indispensable. Since then, the public have been favoured with several good prac- tical books, in which the propriety and necessity of early or immediate amputation in such cases are urgently inculcated, and the truth of the doctrine is illustrated by additional facts. It is to be observed, however, that for tlie last two hundred years, there have always been some advo- cates for this judicious practice. "Du Chesne (snys Dr. J. Thomson) is the first writer on inilita'rv surgery in whose works I have found the reconi- mendation to amputate in the severer injuries of the extremities ; and it is worthy of remark, that he directs Ihe operation to he performed before in- Jlammation and other constitutional st/mpto/ns shall have supervened," (See Traite dc la Cure ghit- ralo ct particuliere des Arcbusadcs, par Jos. Du Chesne, Paris, 1624, p. 143; and 77iomson's Re- port, ^x., p. 160.) Wiseman not only recom- mended and practised immediate .amputation, but the same thing was not unfrequently done by the military surgeons of his time. {Chirurgical Trea- tises, by R. Wiseman, 3d ed. Loud. 1696, p. 410.) The celebrated Le Dran, in his excellent little manual of military surger}', declared himself an advocate for immediate amputation, in all cases in which that operation from the first appears to be indispensable. Le Dran has, at the same time