914 to speculate on the probable change wliich may have happened to the brain under such extra- ordinary circumstances as these just related; but they are by no means devoid of interest to the practical surgeon, as well as to the psychologist.] Compression of the Brain. [In severe cases of concussion of the brain slight effusions of blood take place frequently on the sur- face of this organ, or into its texture ; and I have no doubt that when the symptoms of concussion continue for any length of time the veins of the brain are in a high state of congestion from the re mora of the blood arising from a paralysed state of the capillaries, or that a slight effusion of blood has happened. But it cannot be said that cases of this description are cases of compression, as the characteristic signs of pressure are either absent or are so obscure as not to be recognised. Compression of the brain may arise from the following causes :—First, depressed bone ; se- condly, effusion of blood ; thirdly, suppuration on the dura mater ; and fourthly, from the introduc- tion of foreign bodies, as bullets, &c., which, lodging under the bones of the skull, occasionally give rise to-pressure on the brain. These are all the result of accidental violence; but the brain may be compressed by abscess in its interior as well as by the growth of various tumors. Depression of bone may happen in any part of the skull: the vault of the cranium is the most common seat of such depression; but pieces of the base may by extraordinary violence be forced in upon the brain and thus give rise to pressure. Such cases have been alluded to. We have seen the broken orbital plate of the frontal bone pressing upon the under surface of the anterior lobes. The inner table may press upon the brain, whilst the outer table is intact. A spiculum of bone connected witli the inner table may become the cause of se condary pressure by lacerating the vessels of the surface of the cerebral hemispheres or one of the sinuses of the dura mater. It is absurd to sup- pose that the brain cannot be compressed. Of course the unyielding cranium cannot contain absolutely more than its original contents ; but the contents of the skull are various, and as the brain is surrounded by fluid and contains much blood in its interior, the cerebral fibre, surrounded as it is by blood in its capillaries, must under pressure be de- prived of its due supply of blood. The immediate and efficient causes of pressure upon the brain may be referred to one of five general heads:—First, to the unequal and unnatural compression of the cerebral fibre, by which the proper relation of its constitu- ent molecules is changed; secondly, to the arrest of a due supply of oxygenated blood from the pressure on the arterial circle at the base; thirdly, to the necessary retardation of the flow of blood through the veins, and the consequent contiimal contact of dark venous blood with the delicate neu- rine ; fourthly, to the presence of effused blood ■within the arachnoid cavity; and lastly, to in- jury of the medulla oblongata, the great centre of the respiratory system of nerves, whereby, the pneumogastric nerves being paralysed, the due oxy- genation of the blood is seriously interrupted. When the cranium is examined after death from pressure on the brain, whether from depressed bone or from effused blood, its contents will be 1 iound to have widergone the following changes:— HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. The convolutions of the brain are flattened in the vicinity of the effusion; the cerebral substance is either blanched at this part or very much con- gested ; the remaining portion of the organ is in a state of high congestion, the veins and sinuses being gorged with blood; and the arterial circle at the base is empty. The ventricles contain little or no fluid; indeed, the whole cerebro-spinal fluid appears to have been squeezed out of the cranium into the spinal canal. The effects of pressure on the brain may be observed during life when bone is removed by the trephine, for the up-heaving and subsiding of the brain, which are characteristic of its healthy function, have either entirely ceased, or are so indistinct as scarcely to be recognised. The consequences of pressure, if of moderate extent, and if it implicate ouly the white fibres of the brain, are perceived upon those parts which are in connection through the medium of the nerves with the part of the brain the seat of pressure, and hence the explanation of those partial paralyses which are of such frequent occurrence as the re- sult of slight pressure ; but if the effusion be ex- tensive so as to interfere with the general circula- tion of the brain, and thus to place it in the condi- tion that none but a dark venous blood comes in contact with its tissue, the effect becomes general, as is exemplified in the disturbance of the intellec- tual functions, coma, &c. But that the general effect is not always proportioned to the quantity of blood effused is well known. The seat of the effu- sion has a marked influence in this respect, effu- sions at the base being generally attended svith much more formidable symptoms than those occur- ring in other parts of the brain ; and when the brain itself is lacerated the contact of the effused blood with the delicate tissue of the brain gives rise to a train of most serious symptoms diftering in some respects from those of pressure. Pressure from effused blood may arise from a rupture of one of the arteries of the dura mater, from the lace- ration of one of the sinuses, from an effusion be- neath the arachnoid into the cells of the pia mater on the surface, or between the convolutions, or into the substance of the brain itself, or it may^ depend on effusion into the ventricles of the brarii. AVhen hfemorrhage results from rupture of one of the ar- teries of the dura mater, the blood is almost inva- riably found between the bone and this membrane; but if the dura mater is much lacerated it may es- cape into the arachnoid cavity and become diffused over the general surface of the brain. The blood which is poured out from the laceration of a sinus may escape by an external wound or through the ear, or it may pass into the arachnoid cavity; but it rarely gives rise to positive signs of pressure. When pressure arises from matter, the pus will be found either on the surface of the dura mater or in the arachnoid cavity, or in the substance of the brain in the form of abscess. Efi"usion of blood as a cause of pressure may take place instantaneously on the receipt of the injur)-, as in the case of a ruptured sinus, or it may happen at a period more or less remote. The first may be denominated primitive, the second consectUivc. Consecutive ha}morrhage may occur at a consider- able interval from the time of the accident. Of this a good illustration is given by Sir Beiijamin Brodie :—" A man thirty-five years of age, ni the afternoon of the 8th of November, fell from a cart and struck his Lead against the pavement. He