ANUS, 265 camila. The communication with the vagina will then gradually close. For the most part, the intestine has but one opening in the vagina. In this circumstance, the surgeon should make an incision in the place which the anus ought to occupj-. The natural channel of the fa;ces being thus opened, less excrement will pass out of the vagina; ajid hy the introduction of a tube into the new anus, the communication be- tween the rectnm and vagina will be obliterated and a perfect cure accomplished; an instance of which is recorded by M. Le'pine. (See Diet, de Mid. etde Cldr.Prat. t. iii. p. ] 21.) The opening between the intestine and vagina is sometimes too small for the due evacuation of the faces, and the infant is then exposed to the same sort of dangerous symptoms as if the rectum had no opening at all. In male infants, the rectum sometimes opens into the bladder; and, in these circumstances there is generally no anus. The case is easily known, by the meconinm being blended with the urine, which acquires a thick greenish appearance, and is voided almost continually, though in small quantities. Only the most fluid part of the meconium is thus discharged. The thicker part, not getting from the rectum into the bladder, nor from the bladder into the urethra, greatly distends the intestines and irritates the bladder, producing in the end fatal symptoms. For a few days, however, the meco- nium may be diluted, and voided with the urine. An infant, whose meconium came away through the urethra, seen by M. Velpeau, lived nearly a week. {Nouv. Elem. de Med. Oper. t. iii. p. 977.) In all such cases one thing is certain, viz. that without the speedy interference of art to form an anus, capable of serving as an outlet to the faces, with which the urinary organs cannot remain ob- structed, the infant will inevitably die. This case must, therefore, be treated on the same principles which apply to the foregoing examples. Though we can hardly hope to prevent altogether the in- conveniences resulting from the rectum opening into the bladder, since even a new passage will not completely hinder the faces from following the other course; yet we shall thus afford the child the only chance of preservation which its condition will allow. Instances are also upon record, where the rectum opened into the urethra {Brcsl. SammL 1718, p. 7Q'2; Ilisl. de I'Acad. Roijale des Sciences, 1752, p. 113; ITnchsteller, in Med. Wochenhktil, 1780, No. 18; 1783, No. 19; Krctschmar, in Ilorn^s Archiv. b. i. p. 350.) [These cases may perhaps be distinguished from each other by the fact that, when the opening is urethral, a small jet of meconium will generally precede the passage of the urine, whereas when it is vesical, the meconium and urine will be mixed. (Bushe, On Dis. of the liectum, p. 42.) iVIr. Fergusson operated successfully on a casein which the rectum terminated in the mombranous part of the urethra. The child lived till he was six years old, when he died of disease of the Iuurs. Occasionally when his bowels were loose, a few drops of faces would come by the urethra, and he was wont also to discharge part of his urine by the artificial opening into the rectum. In the opera- tion, the rectum wr.s first sought for in its natiu'al situation, but without success. Some meconium being then observed to escape by the urethra, it was thought that the rectum terminated in the bladder, and an incision was made, as it was be- lieved at the time, in the neck of the bladder, through which the meconium escaped. On exami- nation of the parts, after death, however, this was found not to have been the case, but the bowel terminated in the membranous portion of the ure- thra by an aperture about the size of a lancet puncture. (See Ed. Med. and Surg. Jcurnal, vol, xxxvi. p. 363, and Op. Sicrg. ed. 3, p. 740.] Cruveilhier saw an infant in which the rectum opened under the glans penis, through a canal formed in the substance of the raphe of the scro- tum. {Anat. Pathol, pi. vi. Ire livr.) [Mr. South met with a somewhat similar case. There was no anal orifice in the usual situation, but in front of the scrotum, and in the track of the raphe, there was a small opening, just large enough to admit a probe, and through this, when the child cried, a small quantity of meconium passed. There was a slight protrusion in the natural position of the anus when the child cried ; Mr. South therefore made an incision at this part, and succeeded in finding the rectum at the depth of an inch from the surface. The child recovered from the operation, and lived till adult age, but the uimatural canal under the penis always re- mained pervious, and small quantities of stool occasionally escaped from it. (See Sozitli's Trans, of Chelius, vol. ii. p. 329.) There are no satisfactory data to enable us to estimate the proportion of mortality in cases of im- perforate anus, but it is unquestionably very great; probably of the whole number of children bom with this malformation the survivors do not amount to more than one tenth.] In cases in which an outlet for the ffeoes cannot be procured by any of the methods pointed out above, Littre proposed, in 1720, to make an opening in the sigmoid flexure of the colon, above the left groin, and thus form an artificial anus. In 1788, Dumas tried the plan on an infant, which died on the tenth day. In 1793, it was practised with complete success, by M. Duret, of Brest; and M. Pilore, of Rouen, had an equally fortunate' case.^ But the infant, on whom Desault operated in 1794, lived but four days afterwards. M. Ou- vrard, of Angers, and M. Roux, of Paris, lost also the two children on whom they made the experi- ment. {Velpeau, Nouv. Elem. de Mtd. Opcr. t. iii. p. 983.) M. Duret cut into the abdomen at the lower part of the left iliac region : and, having opened the sigmoid flexure of the colon, he fixed it near the wound. The child was saved by the formation of an artificial anus ; but at the age of twcntj'-five months, it continued to be troubled with a prolapsus of the lining of the bowel. (See Recueil Pcriodiqiie de hi Snc. de Med. t. iv. No. 19 • and Sabu/ier, Med. Opcraiove, t. iii. p. 83(), ed 2 )' Calliseu conceived, that the descending colon might bo most easily got at by making an incision 111 the left lumbar region, along the edge of the quadratus lumborum muscle, and oponlnir that intestine between the two layers of peritoneum, which fix It in its situation. Thus he calculated that all necessity for cutting into the cavity of the pcntoncum itself would be obviated. (S,/'!f Chir Uodienm', t. ii. p. 688, 6fi9, ed. 1800.) The opcr' ation was tried in one case by M. Roux, but in two liotirs the infant perished. (See Velpeau, Nouv Elc.ni. de Med. Opu: f. iii, p, !)84.) [Callisen's proceeding hnsbecninodified by Amus-