]4 ABSORPTION. foreign matter is extremely extensive, for, besides its salutary effects, it is often the cause of a thousand diseases, especially from poisons. " In the second of these views we are to consider them as removing parts of the body itself, in which they may be viewed in two lights. The first is, where only a wasting is produced in the whole machine or part, such as the wasting of the whole body from an atrophy ; or of a part, as the wasting of the muscles of the leg, &c. from severe injury done to some nerve, tendinous part, or joint, all of which I call interstitial absorption, because it is removing parts of the body out of the interstices of the part which remains, leaving the part still as a perfect whole. But this mode is often carried farther than simply wasting of the part; it is often continued till not a vestige is left, such as the total decay of a testicle, so that the interstitial absorp- tion might be understood in two senses. " The second is, where they are removing whole parts of the body. This may be divided into the natural and the diseased. In the natural, they are to be considered as the modellers of the original construction of the body; and if we were to con- sider them fully in this view we should find that no alteration can take place in the original forma- tion of many of the parts, either in the natural growth, or that formation arising from disease, in which the absorbents are not in action and take not a considerable part; this absorption I shall call modelling absorption. If I were to consider their powers in this light, it would lead me into a vast variety of effects, as extensive as any principle m the animal economy, for a bone cannot be formed without it, nor probably many other parts. A part which was of use in one stage of life, but which becomes entirely useless in another, is thus removed. This is evident in many animals ; the thymus gland is removed, the ductus arteriosus and the membrana papillaris are removed. " Absorption, in consequence of disease, is the power of removing complete parts of the body, and is in its operation somewhat similar to the first of this division, or modelling process, but very dif- ferent in the interstitial, and therefore in its ultimate efifects. This process of removing whole parts in consequence of disease, in some cases produces effects which are not similar to one another; one of these is a sore or ulcer, and I therefore call it ulcerative ; in other cases, no ulcer is produced, whole parts are removed, and for this I have not been able to find a term; biit both may be deno- minated progressive absorption. " This process of the removal of a whole solid part of the body, or that power which the animal economy has of taking part of itself into the cir- culation, by means of the absorbing vessels, when- ever it was necessary, is a fact that has not in the leiist been attended to, nor was it even supposed ; and, having now been noticed, I mean to give a general idea of it. I may just be allowed once more to observe, that the oil or fat of animals, and the earth of bones, have always been considered as liable to absorption ; and some other parts of the body being liable to wasting have been supposed to suffer this by absorption ; but that any solid part should totally be absorbed is a new doctrine This use of the absorbents I have long been uhl to demonstrate; and the first hints I received ol it were in the waste of the sockets of the teeth, as also in the fangs of the shedding teeth. It may be difficult at first to conceive how a part of the body can be removed by itself, but it is just as difficult to conceive how a body can form itself, which we see daily taking place; they are both equally facts, and the knowledge of their mode of action would answer perhaps very little purpose ; but this I may assert, that whenever any solid part of our bodies undergoes a diminu- tion, or is broken in upon, in consequence of any disease, it is the absorbing system which does it." Thus, according to the views of Hunter, all absorption whatever, and all processes of diminution of bulk or loss of substance, are due to the action of the mouths of lymphatic or absorbent vessels. They were believed to absorb chyle for nourish- ment, as well as poisons and medicines; they were the causes of emaciation of the whole body under illness, and of wasting of any part of the body from disease ; they acted as the pruning knife, to check exuberance of growth; they were the means through which bones or other parts were wasted before an encroaching aneurism or tumor, and by means of which abscesses were brought to the surface ; lastly, they were the agents by which ulceration was pro- duced ; " a process which," says Hunter, " answers very material purposes in the machine, without which many local diseases could not be removed, and which, if allowed to remain, would destroy the person. It may be called in such cases iJie natural suiyeon. " It is by the progressive absorption that matter, or pus, and extraneous bodies of all kinds what- ever, in consequence of or producing inflammation and suppuration, are brought to the external sur- face ; it is by means of this that bones exfoliate; it is this operation which separates sloughs; it is the absorbents which are removing whole bones, wliile the arteries are supplying new ones ; and although, in these last cases of bones, it aiises from disease, yet it is somewhat similar to the modelling process of this system in the natural formation of bone ; it is this operation that removes useless parts, as the alveolar processes when the teeth depart or when they are removed by art, as also the fangs of the shedding teeth, which allow them to drop oft'j and it is by these means ulcers are formed." {Hunter on the Blood, chap. vi.; Palmer's edition, vol. iii. p. 463.) ^ , tt In order to make our account of the Hunterian doctrhie complete, we must add a few lines on his doctrine of the causes of absorption and disposition thereto. • ■ i The final cause or purpose of absorption is, lie says, the removal of that which is useless or inju- rious • anything therefore which renders parts use- less, or which so disturbs the vitality of parts as to render them unable to support themselves, are effi- cient or remote causes. " The most simple object or intention of nature seems to be the removal of a useless part, as the thymus gland, membrana pupillaris, ductus arte- riosus, the alveoli when the teeth drop; as the crystalline humour after couching, and probably the wasting of the body from fever, either acute or hectic. These parts are removed by the ab- sorbents, either as useless parts or (m the latter case) in consequence of strength being unnecessary while under disease, or such as not to accord with disease. . , .u " It might be asked, as a question, whether the waste of the constitution in disease arises from the