/. M. G. Hard, Traits des Maladies de I'Oreille, et de l'Audition,2 torn. 8vo. Paris, 1821. 7'. Buc/uinan, An Engraved Representation of tlio Anatomy of the Human Ear, fol. Hull, 1823. Also Ulustratinns of Acoustic Surgery, 8vo. 1625. Malison's filed. Re- searches on Iodine, 8vo. Lond. IS^'S. For an account of malformations of the organ, see Meckel's \:\&nA- buch der Pathol. Anat. b. i. p. 400. &c. 8vo. Leipz. 1813. Ph. F. Dlandin, in Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Pratiques, t. xii. art. Oreille. L. Ch. Roche, Op. vol. cit. art. Otitis. Deleau, Mem. sur la Perforation du Tympan, 8vo. Paris, 1822. Id. I'Art. de Sonder la Trompe d'Eustasche, 8vo. Paris, 1826. Edward Cock, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. x\k. p. 152. J. Thiiniam, Examination of the Organs of Hearing in a Case of congenital Deafness, vol. cit. p. 163. Todd, in Anat. of Organs of Hearing. WillielmKrame}%T)\&Er- kenntniss und Heilung der Ohrenkrankheiten, 8vo. Berlin, 1836. A. W. Webster, Onthe Structure of the Ear and Deafness, 12mo. Lond. 1836. [See also an en- larged editionof Kramer's\Nor\s.,\SVj. Dr.C.G.Lincke, of Leipziir, 3 vols. Dr. B. Schmalz, of Dresden. Dr. Martell Fremk, of Wiirtzburg. Mr. Pitcher's I'rize Essay on the Structure, Economy,and Diseases of the Ear, upon some points in the Physiology of the Tym- p.'inum,and on the consequences of ScarletFever on the Ear. Dr. ,T. Williams' Prize Essay, a Treatise on the Ear, including its Anatomy, Physiology, and Patho- logy. Mr. Wharton Jones, Ear and Hearnig, Dis- eases of, in the Cyclopaedia of Practical Surgery. Mr. Toynbee's work on the Diseases of the Ear, and liis valuable papers in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, the Medical Times and Gazette, and other periodicals.] ECCHYMOSIS (from f/cx"", to pour out). A swelling, attended with a livid or blue colour of the skin, and produced by blood extravasated in the cellular tissue. The causes of ecchymosis are falls, blows, sprains, &c. which occasion a rupture of the small vessels on the surface of the body, and a consequent effusion of blood, even without any external breach of continuity. Ecchymosis is one of the symptoms of a contusion. (See Contu.sion.) A considerable ecchymosis may originate from a very slight bruise, when the ruptured vessels are capable of pouring out a large quantity of blood, and particularly when the parts contain an abun- dance of loose cellular substance. In general, ecchymosis does not make its appearance immedi- ately after the blow or sprain, and sometimes not till several hours after the application of the violence; at least, it is not till this time that the black, blue, and livid colour of the skin is most conspicuous. A black ej-e, which is only an ecchymosis, is always more disfigured six or eight hours after the receipt of the blow, than at an earlier period. 'A common ecchymosis will generally yield to discutient lotions, and purgatives. The best topi- cal applications are vinegar, the lotio amnioniie hydro-chloratis; spirit, vin. camph. and the liquor animon. acet. The object is to prevent inflammation, and to promote the absorption of the extravasated fluid. I have seen such success attend the practice of di.ipersing collections of extravasated blood by means of absorption, that I consider the plan of evacuating it by an incision seldom necessary. When an opening is made, and air is admitted, the portion of blood, which cannot be pressed out, Biion putrefuta, and extensive iiiflammatior) and suppuration are the frequent consequences. A man, in going down one of the staircases at the King's Bench, fell, and suffered a contusion over the sacrum, whore a tumour, from effused blood, soon formed, almost os largo as his head. The A.SEUR. 6Q9 blood was completely absorbed in a few weeks, without any suppuration having taken place. Mild antiphlogistic treatment, cold evaporating lotions and purgatives, were the only means em- ployed. A man was brought into the University College Hospital, Oct. 1, 1836, with a lacerated wound of the scrotum, protrusion of both testes, a fracture of the right femur in its upper third, and a copious extravasation of blood from external violi-nce applied to the left hip. The quantity of blood, effused after a time, was calculated to be not less tlian three or four quarts. I scarcely ex- pected to succeed in dispersing the whole of it; yet, in about two mouths, every particle of it was absorbed. The quick and powerful action of the absorbent vessels in removing extravasations of blood, can now be no longer called in question, when we daily see it proved hi modern practice, that the largest aneurismal swellings are thus speedily diminished and removed, after the operation of tying the arteries, from which such tumours arise. I wish, however, the preceding observations merely to convey a general condemnation of the practice of opening swellings containing extrava- sated blood; for no surgeon is more assured than I am, that there are particular exceptions, in which the plan is highly proper and necessary. Tims, whenever a case of extensive ecchymosis, or a large tumour of extravasated blood, either excites suppuration, or creates excessive pain from disten- sion, it is better to practise a free opening. So it sometimes happens, in aneurism, that the skin gives way over the tumour after the artery has been tied, ;md some of the blood escapes; but the remainder putrefies, and soon becomes blended with purulent matter in the sac. Here the making of a free incision into the swelling for the dis- charge of its irritating contents, with due attention to every caution delivered in the article Aneurism, will often be followed by beneficial effects. [ECRASEUR. This instrument consists of a handle and steel canula, in the interior of which are two grooves opposite each other, for the passage of a jointed chain somewhat resembling a chain- saw, but without teeth, the edge being blunted but not serrated. From the extremity of the canula a loop of the chain as long as may be required pro- jects, which is passed around the tumour or other body to be removed, and is gradually tightened by the drawing in of the links by means of a rack and pinion. A modification of the instrument has been constructed, having a handle and steel cylinder along the side of which there is an opening, and at the extremity a flattened ring through which a loop of the chain before described passes, one end of it being attached to the top of the cylinder, the other to a piece of metal projecting through the opening at the side of the instrument. At the liaiuUe, there is a wheel attached to a long screw which passes into the interior of the cylinder, and l)y its revolutions acts upon the piece of steel to which the chain is attached. The advantage of the latter instrument is that the pressure upon the tumour is gradual, instead of being in jerks as with the rack and pinion movement; and also the chain being external to the cylinder, the instru- ment is not so liable to become clogged by matter getting into the interior. Charricro has combined the advantage of a Ntraight and curved instrument by making several extremities screw on to one R R