504 DISLOCATION many cases, injuries of this description are followed by v.olen and extensive inflammation, abscesses mortihcation, fever, delirium, and death en the pat.ent is advanced in years, much debilitated, or of an unhealthy irritable constitution, a com- pound luxation, especially if attended with severe contusion and other injury of the soft parts, often has a fatal termination. A man, above^he age of ^ven y, and much addicted to drinking, %as brought into University, College Hospital with a "ZIT tI Tr phalanLof his right thumb. The dislocation was reduced ; but consi derable swelling and a livid redness of the hand ensued with a small irregular pulse; and death occurred in about a week from the time of the ac- cident. This however, is not the general event of compound dislocations ; and whatever may have happened in former times, u-e now know, that, in the present improved state of surgery, and in mo- derately good constitutions, these accidents mostly admit of cure. This statement may be made without any censure being cast upon every in stance of amputation performed in such cases. ] know that this operation is sometimes indispen- sable directly after the accident, and I am equally aware, that it may become necessary in a future stage when extensive abscesses, or sloughing joined with threatening constitutional symptoms mTnd thr "'r- ""'^ "^^^'Sn is to r'ecom: mend the endeavour to cure the generality of compound luxations. But, if a case were to ^pre- sent Itself, attended with serious contusion and lacei-ation of the soft parts, I should be as earnest an advocate for amputation as any surgeon Sir Stephen Love Hammick, in speaking of compound dislocations of the ankle, advises ampu- tation, where the lower heads of the tibia and fibula are very much shattered ; where, together with the compound dislocations of these bones some of the tarsal bones are displaced and injured • where any large vessels are divided, and cannot be secured without extensive enlargement of the wound, and disturbance of the soft parts • where the common integuments, with the neigh'bourin.. tendons and muscles, are considerably torn • where the protruded tibia cannot by any means' be re- duced ; and where the constitution is enfeebled at the time of the accident, and not likely to endure pain, ^discharge, and length of confinement." (A. Cooper's Surgical jS'soa^s,'part ii. p. 146) Perhaps, as general remarks, these may not be in- accurate ; but there are exceptions to them. Thus we find in Sir A. Cooper's publication, several cases, 111 whicli compound dislocations of the ankle terminated well, notwithstanding the displacement and removal of the astragalus, other instances of which kind of success are to be found in the records of surgery. (See Laumcnier, in Fourcroy Med Ji^dmrea; Percij, in Journ. de Med. coniinui, Nov. J!>n, p. 34« ; Professor Stevens, of New York, see JJeeses American ed. of this Did.) However, if the ends of the tibia and tarsal bones, especially tlie astragalus and os calcis.are broken, the opc- lation of amputation is recommended on high au- thorrty iSir A. Cooper's Surg. Essays, ptrt ii. blon^ 2 .'J'^y '° '•^'^ division of large It .; onT ' ^""P"" ''''''' ^v-ould « Th! ! f°"f. tV""P"''"'"'^ tli^'t account. V Mr' r] ^'T'^^f^^^^"'•^-ter, sent me yMr. Garden, clearly shows, tliat the division of the anterior tibial artery does not, if it be wel" secured, prevent the patient's recovery. I also once saw a compound fracture, close to he ank e- joint, accompanied by a division nf i\.lT I and, although the pat'ient wa^ in th ZlTZl a brewer's servant, who possessed the worst con stitution to struggle against severe injuries^^t this man recovered w thout amputation.'' Nor't S A. Cooper s opinion, would all hope be precluded even if the posterior tibial artery werfin ured Vol. cit. p. 186.) For the metLd of s S these vessels, see Arteries securing A r!fon!"r'1^ <='^"™^tances, which Sir t^ufT « the necessity for amputation in compound dislocations of the ankle i. J.he advanced age of the'patient. 2. A verv extensive lacerated wound. 3. Difficulty of re- ducing the ends of the bones he considers rlther L a reason for sawing them off, than for amputation. 4. The extremely shattered state of the bones. 5. l>isloca ions of the tibia outwards cause greater injury of the bones and soft parts, than those in- wards, and more frequently require amputation. 0. Sometimes the bone cannot be kept reduced 0 wmg to the tibia in the dislocation outwards beine obliquely fractured. 7. Division of a large blood- vessel, attended with extensive wound of the soft parts 8. Mortification. 9. Excessive contusion. 10. Lxtensive suppuration. 11. Necrosis, where tlie sequestra do not admit of removal. 12 Very great and permanent deformity of the foot. 13 When tetanus comes on, Sir A. Cooper does not approve of the operation. 14. A very irritable state of constitution, such as is often met with in very lat subjects, who talce no exercise. (On Dislocations, S;c. p. 332, &c.) The treatment of a compound dislocation re- quires the reduction to be effected without delay '''"wu ^'"^'^ disturbance as pes' sible._ When the extremity of the bone protrudes and IS smeared with sand or dirt, as frequently happens from ifs having touched the ground, " it should be washed with warm water, as the least extraneous matter admitted into the joint will pro- duce and support a suppurative process, and the utmost care should be taken to remove every por- tion of It adhering to the end of the bone. If the bone be shattered, the finger is to be passed into the joint, and the detached pieces are to be re- moved, but this is to be done in the most gentle ina,nner possible, so as not to occasion unnecessary irritation; and if the wound be so small as to admit the finger with difficulty, and small loose pieces of bone can be felt, the integuments should be divided with a scalpel, to allow of such portions being removed without violence." (Sir A.Cooper On Dislocations, p. 2o4.) If any difficulty of re- duction should arise from the bone being girt by the integumeutf, the opening in them should be dilated with a scalpel, and the limb is then to be placed in splints, with the necessary pads, eighteen- tailed bandage, &c. Sir A. Cooper judiciously recommends the portions of this bandage not to be sewn together, " but passed under the leg, so that one piece may be removed when it becomes stiff;" and by fixing another to its end, before it is withdrawn, the fresh piece may be applied, without any disturbance to the limb. {Surg. Essays, part ii. p. 120.) Or the limb m.iy be hiid on jM'Intyre's apparatus, with which a coiniiion 11 Tl ...11. ..... roller will answer oven better than the eighteeu- taiied bandage. The wound is to be freed from