AMPUTATION, disorder of the constitution, nnd prostration of strength, th.it every hope of a cure being ell'ected by a natural process must be renounced. By necrosis, is here meant, not merely some disease which destroys the surface of a bono, but one which extends its depredations to the whole of the internal substance, and that from end to end. Portions of the bones die from a variety of causes, such as struma, lues venerea, deep-seated abscesses, pressure, &c. ; and bones in this state, when pro- perly treated, often exfoliate and cast off their dead parts. But, when the whole substance of a bone becomes diseased, from end to end, frequently no means will avail. Nevertheless, I would not positively affirm, as Mr. Pott has done, that every extensive necrosis, affecting a bone nearly its whole length, must inevitably require amputation. The power of nature in restoring the bones is sometimes wonderful. (See Necrosis.) When, however, in a case of necrosis, the limb hreaks in the midst of the diseased part of it, fol- lowed by vast deformity, profuse suppuration, and urgent constitutional derangement, amputation is indicated. (See Dupuytren, Clin. Cltir. t. iv. p. 260.) 7. Cancerous and other inveterate Diseases, Cancerous diseases, and malignant incurable ulcers on the limbs, sometimes render amputation a matter of necessit}'. In treating of cancer, we shall remark, that little or no confidence can be placed either in internal or any kind of topical remedies, and that there is nothing except the total separation of the part affected, upon which any rational hopes of cure can be built' Cancer, of the scirrhus variety, is not frequently seen on the extremities. Every m.an of experience, however, must occasionally have seen, in this situa- tion, if not scirrhoma, as it is termed by Dr. Cars well (see his Illustrations of the Elementary Forms of Disease, Fasc. 1 et 2), medullary tumors, and other diseases quite as intractable, and which cannot be cured, except by removing the affected part. This may often be accomplished without cutting off the whole limb: but when the disease has spread beyond certain bounds, amputation, above the part affected, is the only thing to which recourse can be had with any hope of success. In a few cases of medullary tumor, the operation has succeeded; and even after the disease had reap- peared, a cure has now and then been achieved by another excision of the diseased parts. Yet, from what I have seen of fungus hsematodes, I should much doubt, whether the benefit obtained by am- putation would frequently be lasting, as when this disease shows itself only externally, internal organs are mostly at the same time similarly affected. (See Fungus HiEMATouEs.) Besides cancerous, there are other ulcers, which may render amputation indispensable. Thus, when nn extensive ulcer, of any sort whatsoever, is. evi- dently impairing the health ; when, instead of yielding to remedies, it becomes larger and more inveterate ; when, in short, it puts life in imminent danger ; amputation should be advised. 8. Various Tumors, Tumors commencing in tho soft parts, if we except those of malignant nature, may generally S3 be removed without sacrificing the limb ; but it is otherwise with those which originate in the osseous tissue, as the enchondromatous and other tumors of bone. Occasionally, perhaps, when the tumor grows from the surface of a bone and has not a very extended basis of attachment, excision of the tumor only may bo successfully practised, but in the majority of cases, the whole thickness of the bone is implicated to a greater or less extent, and in these, since their dispersion is out of the ques- tion, amputation of the limb is the only resource. Exostosis may render amputation necessary, when the tumor becomes hurtful to the health, or insupportable, on account of its weight, or other circumstances, and cannot be removed by any of the plans specified in the article Exostosis. Before the late facts and improvements relative to the treatment of aneurisms on the extremities, these cases were generally set down as requiring amputation. Even Pott, and J. L. Petit, wrote in recommendation of such practice, and their obser- vations on this subject are among the few parts of their writings which the enlargement of surgical knowledge, since their time, has rendered objec- tionable. The surgeon, to whom the honour of first correcting this erroneous doctrine belongs, is A. N. Guenault, who opposed the advice delivered by Petit. {Holler, Disp. Chir. vol. v. p. 155.) I shall conclude these remarks on the cases re- quiring amputation, with advising surgeonsnever to undertake this serious operation without consulting the opinions of other professional men, whenever their advice can be obtained. The best operators are often deficient in that invaluable kind of judg- ment, by which the cases, absolutely demanding amputation, are discriminated from others, in which the operation may be wisely postponed, and a chance taken of preserving the limb. Surgeons should generally refuse to amputate limbs merely affected with stiffness or deformity. Operations under such circumstances, termed by the French operations de comp)laisance, are more frequently followed by ftital consequences than amputations in more urgent cases, (See Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 271.) The History of Amputation Evinces, that the steps of surgery to perfection are slow, and that they even sometimes deviate from the straight path, though, upon all essential points, no retrogradation has ever taken place. Here nature has acted as the guide, and the surgeon's chief merit has consisted in obeying the hints which she ^herself has thrown out. As already mentioned, the following natural occurrence, no doubt, was one of the circumstances which first led to the bold practice of amputation ; in conse- quence of disease, and grievous local injuries, whole limbs were sometimes seized with mortification. In the majority of cases tliis was attended with so much constitutional disturbance, that the patients died ; but, in other instances, the mortification was confined to tho part ; suppuration was esta- blished between the dead and living parts ; the whole of the mortified limbs fell off; the suppurat- ing surfaces healed up ; and thus, by the powers of nature, the patients were restored to health. Hera was clearly proved the possibility of recovery, notwithstanding tho loss of a limb. Tho surgeon, as Brlinninghausen remarks, viewed with surprise this course of nature, and hardly ventured to pro- K 3