thickest, and the prolongations of the areolar 3d 4 tissue most developed. p i i • Young persons, and especiall.v those of plethoric habits, are most subject to boils. The disease occurs with most frequoncj' in the spring. {Lassus, Patholoyie Chir. t. i. p. 16.) It is sometimes accompanied by a disordered state of the gastric organs. {Nosograplde Chir. t. i. p. 12-1, edit. 2.) Frequently boils arise without any evident cause, and apparently in healthy constitutions. At other times they follow eruptive diseases and typhus. \w. Gihso'ii, Institutes, SyC. of Surgary, p. 48, vol. i.) In many cases several boils present them- selves, either at once, or in succession, on various parts of the body. The suppuration attending a boil is never per- fect, and the matter which forms is frequently tinged with blood. The central portion of dead celfular tissue, or the core, is mostly detached about the tenth or twelfth day, leaving an open cylindrical cavity, extending from the apex to the base of the tumor. The pain now ceases; the skin contracts ; the cavity becomes obliterated; and the cure is completed in about a fortnight. (See Rayer, Mai. de la Peau, t. ii. p. 547.) The experiments of Dumeril and Bretonneau prove that a boil may sometimes be stopped by an early application of caustic; a plan, however, rarely tried. In a veiy few cases, perhaps, it may be proper to try to resolve boils, by means of gentle evacu- ations, low diet, and cold applications. In tlie generality of instances, suppuration must be pro- moted by the use of emollient poultices. The tumor, when allowed to burst, generally does so at its apex. However, as the opening is long in formin-r, and too small to allow the sloughy cellular substance to be discharged, it is best, as soon as matter is known to exist in the tumor, to make a free opening with a lancet, and immediately after- wards to press out the matter and dead cellular tissue. This having been accomplished, healthy pus will be secreted, and the part will granulate and heal. . , For the purpose of stimulating the cavity, and causing it to fill up. Professor Gibson, of Phihi- delphia, has sometimes employed a lotion of nitrate of silver. Where there is reason to suppose the gastric GANGLION. '^''^ organs to be in a disordered state, an emetic should be^ given in the early part of the treatment, and afterwards small repeated doses of any of the mild pursing salts. _ When an indolent hardness continues after the inflammatory and suppurative state of boils has been removed, the part should be rubbed with camphorated mercurial ointment. Besides the above acuta bnil, authors describe a chronic one, which frequently occurs in subjects who have suffered severely from the small-pox, measles, lues venerea, scrofula, and in constitu- tions injured by the use of mercury. The chroiiia boil is commonly situated upon the extremities, is of the same size as the acute one, has a hard base, is not attended with much pain, nor any consider- able discoloration of the skin, until suppuration is far advanced, and the matter is seldom quite formed before the end of three or four weeks. Sometimes several boils of the chronic kind occur together, or follow one another in the same patient. The discharge is always thinner than good pus, and when the boil is large, and has been long in sup- purating, a great deal of sloughy cellular tissue must be cast off before the sore will heal. The principal thing requisite in the local treat- ment of all furunculous and carbuncular tumors is to make an early free opening into them, and to press out the matter and sloughs, employing emol- lient poultices, til! all the mortified parts are de- tached and removed, and afterwards simple, or more or less stimulating dressings. [Nelaton objects to incisions in the treatment of carbuncles and boils. He does not admit that the core is a portion of dead cellular tissue, but consi- siders it a deposit or secretion resulting from an inflammatory action of a peculiar character, and compares it to the plastic membranous produc- tions found in inflammations of serous membranes. For a more detailed account of M. Ne'laton's views, see Carbuncle.] See Pearson's Principles of Surgery. Ricliter, An- fanifssriinde der Wundarzn. b. 1. Lassvs, Patbolosie Cliir. t. i. p. 15. W. Gibson's Institutes of Sursery, vol. i. Philadelphia, C. J. M. Langcnbeck, Nosologie, &c. b. i. p. 357. Gott. 1822. M.J. C/iclius, llandb. der Chir. b. i. p. 7+. lleidelb. 1826. Dupw/- Ireii, Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 110. Rayer, Maladies de la Peau, t. ii. p. 546. 8vo. Paris, 1820. [Gall bladder.—The surgeon may be called upon to puncture the gall-bladder in cases of obstruction of the biliary ducts. Thus Frerichs mentions the case of a lady whoso gall-bladder reached downwards to an inch and a half below the crest of the ilium, and elevated the abdominal wall in the form of a pear-shaped tumor. Owing to the great tension and pain it occasioned it became necessary to puncture it, and from the presence of adhesions there was no danger in effect- ing this. About ten ounces of bile flowed out. The proper instrument for such an operation is a hydrocele trocar.] H- ^'"ce«- GANGLION. (rci77Aioi'.) In surgery, an encysted tumor, formed in the course of a tendon, or its fibrous sheath. It is, as I have said, an encysted, circumscribed swelling, commonly free tVoiii pain, causing no alteration in the colour of the skin, and formed upon tendons in different parts of the body, but most frequently upon the hand or wrist. A French gentleman consullcd me, who had one upon the upper part of his foot, which created a considerable weakness in the mo- lion of the ankle. A ganglion has been met with over the tendon of the trochlcaris, and also that of the external head of the gastrocnemius. {Aslon Key, in Guy's Ilospitul Jicports, vol. i. p. 410", 417.) An example is recorded in which a gan- glion, situated exactly over the arteria radialis and the arteria superficialis voIjc, was at first supposed to be an aneurism. (See Edin, Med, ami Sitrg. Journ.for April, 1821.)