of the coats of an artery, or by a combination of both circumstances, the dilatation liavin^ preceded the rupture. (On the Dis. of Ailcries, &c. 8vo. Lond. 18J5.) In trutii, this admission of aneurism by dilat- ation, and of aneurism by rupture of the coats of an artery, together with the frequent combination of both circumstances, became the prevailing un disturbed doctrine of every surgical school, until Professor Scarpa, inclining to the tenets of Syl y&ilcns {De A7ietcri/smale Tract. Venetiis, 16'00, 4to.), ventured to question the correctness of the common opinion about the dilatation of all the arte- rial coats. However, after the very clear and satis- factory elucidation of this disputed point by my friend Mr. Hodgson and others, as well as by seve- ral preparations in the Hunterian collection (see Guthrie, On Dis. of Arteries), the accurate views of the subject, first taken by Morgagni and the other eminent writers specified above, may be regarded as established beyond the possibility of dispute. At the same time, it is not to be supposed that Scarpa means to say, that the arteries are not subject to a morbid dilatation; on the contrary, he gives a particular description of this affection, which lie carefully discriminates from aneurism. Previously to offering a more particular account of the doctrine taught by Scarpa, respecting the formation of aneurism, as well as of the chief facts which may be adduced against a part of such doc- trine, it seems proper to make the reader acquainted with the various forms of the disease, their ordinary symptoms, and a few pathological facts. When an artery becomes dilated spontaneously (attended with particular circumstances marking its difference from another form of dilatation, which, as I shall explain, perhaps ought not to be set down as aneurismal), the swelling is commonly named a true or genuine aneurism. In such cases, the artery is either enlarged at only a small part of its track, and the tumor has a determinate border, or the vessel is dilated for a considerable length ; in which circumstance the swelling is oblong, and' loses itself so gradually in the surrounding parts, that its margin cannot be exactly ascertained. The first case, which is the most common, is termed the circumscriled true aneurism; the last, tlie diffused true aneurism ; a case, liowever, which would be looked upon by Scarpa only as a speci- men of dilatation, different in several particulars from aneurism, as will be hereafter noticed. When blood escapes from the wound or rupture of an artery into the adjoining cellular substance, the opening in the skin having closed, the swelling is denominated a spurious or false aneurism. In this instance, the blood either collects in one mass, dis- tends the cellular substance, and condenses it into a cyst, so as to form a distinctly circumscribed tumor; or it is injected into all the adjacent cellular substance, and extends along the course of the great vessels, from one end of the limb to the other, thus producing an irregular oblong swelling. The first case is named a a circumscribed false aneurism ; the second, a diffused false aneurism. {Richler's Anfangspr. b. i.) When an aneurismal sac is formed upon a dilated artery, the walls of the vessel are some- times thinner than usual ; and some parts of them may become expanded into pouches, or even en- grafted upon the original swelling, the prominent points being always the thinnest. This kind of ANEURISM. case is sometimes termed a saeculaied Miewism, of which there is a good specimen in the Hunterian collection, remarkable also as exhibiting an aneu- rism opening by ulceration into the pulmo- nary artery. (See Guthrie, On Dis. of Arteries, p. 59.) Aneurism by dilatation is distinguished by Breschet mto four varieties, the names of which are determined by the differences in the shape of the expansion of the arterial tube. For instance, 1. True sacciform aneurism : 2. True fusiform aneurism : 3. True c^Kwrfroj'rf aneurism, subdivided into that of the large arteries, and into that of the small arteries, or the aneurism by anastomosis of John Bell, and the erectile tumors of Dupuytren : 4. True varix-like aneurism, or aneurisma cirsoi- deiim. In sacci/bm aneurism, the vessel has at one point of its circumference a small sac, con- sisting of an expansion of the arterial timics. This variety is most frequent in the aorta, but sometimes on the carotid and iliac arteries, and even on those of the limbs. In this aneurism, all the arterial timics are simultaneously dilated ; but as the internal and middle ones have but a limited degree of extensibility, the sacciform aneurism does not generally exceed the size of a filbert, though Breschet has noticed some on the aorta as large as a hen's egg. (See Breschet, Sur Dijerentes Espices d Aneurismes, p. 12, &c.) In the true fusiform aneurism, the dilatation extends over the whole circumference of the vessel • all the coats participate in it. The calibre of the artery, after becoming wider and wider gradually for a certain portion of the track of the vessels' then lessens m a manner equally gradual, tiU it has resumed its natural diameter. The cylindroid aneurism of Breschet mirrht be regarded only as a variety of the fusiform, inasmuch as an abrupt transition from a given calibre to a much more capacious one is never observed Yet, accordmg to the investigations of Breschet cases present themselves in which the arterv is uniformly dilated through a track of one or two feet, the cylindrical form being here strictly pre- ■ed. ibis pathological fact has been noticed by Breschet in the arteries of the limbs, and in those of the brain, and of the splanchnic cavities (Op. cit. p. 25.) In the true varix-likR aneurism, the artery is described by Breschet as being not only drlated but tortuous, and occasionally studded With small sacciform tumors. The parietes of the vessel are thin and collapsed ; while, in the other case thev .nre rather thickened. [This is the condition termed cu-soul in which the coats of the vessel are thinned and the artery itself elongated and tortuous.] Such IS Breschefs classification of true aneurism • classification which, embracing, as it does aneurism by anastomosis and erectile f.miors, and t e " differen kinds, presents a good deal of novel ' [Aneurisms may more conveniently be .arranged into the the sacculated, and'the By the fusiform or tubular aneurism is mean that form of the disease in which all the coatTo the .artery are equally expanded throughou the whole circumrerence of the vessel. The arterv is always elongated as well as dilated. These uni' lorm dilatations are chiefly seated in the back of the aorta, and may attain a very great magnitude. JSy the siicculuted aneurism is meant a tumor that springs from the side of an artery, or of a