CO AMPUTATION. was directed with necrosis, Bngieu ventured to amputate a second time, and urged a variety of arguments in defence of the practice. (Mem. de l^lcad. de Chir. t. ii. p. 274.) He coincided with Le Dran and Bromfield, however, about the propriety of restricting amputation to few cases ; and has related numerous examples of limbs being saved, which, according to the doctrines then in vogue, ought to have been cut off. {Deux Leltres d'un Chir. de VArmee, 12mo. Paris, 1750.) M. Louis, a French surgeon of extraordinary talents, introduced the plan of dividing the loose muscles first ; and lastly, those which are closely connected with the bone. He noticed, that the muscles of the thigh, after being divided, were re- tracted in an uneq^ual degree. He observed, that the superficial ones extending along the limb, more or less obliquely, without being attached to the bone, were drawn up with greater force, and in a greater degree, than others, which are deeply situated, in some measure parallel to the axis of the femur, and fixed to this bone throughout their whole length. The retraction begins the very instant when the muscles are cut, and is not com- pleted till a short time has elapsed. Hence the effect should be promoted, and be as perfect as possible, before the bone is sawn. In amputa- tion of the thigh, M. Louis was always desirous of letting the muscles contract as far as they could : and, for this reason, he was rather averse to using the tourniquet, as the circular pressure of this in- strument in some measure counteracted what he wished to take place, and hence, at one time, he preferred letting an assistant make pressure on the artery; though he subsequently expressed his ap- probation of the tourniquet proposed by M. Pipelet for compressing the femoral artery. (Mem. de VAcad. de Chir. vol. iv. p. 60, 4to.) _ Actuated by such principles, Louis practised a kind of double incision different from that of Cheselden and Petit, and different also from Alanson's method, which I shall hereafter notice. By the first stroke, he cut, at the fame time, both the integuments and tlie loose superficial muscles ; by the second he divided those muscles which are deep, and closely adherent to the femur. On the first, deep, circular cut being completed, Louis used to remove a band, which was placed round the limb, above the track of the knife. This was taken off, in order to allow the divided muscles to become retracted without any impediment. He next cut the deep adherent muscles, on a level with the surfaces of those loose ones, which had been divided in the first incision, and which had now attained their utmost state of retraction. In this way, he could evidently saw the bone high up, and the painful dissection of the skin from the muscles was avoided. Louis was conscious that there was more necessity for saving muscle than skin ; and he knew that, when an in- cision was made at once down to the bone, the retraction of the divided muscles always left the edge of the skin projecting a considerable way beyond them. Hence he deemed the plan of first saving a portion of skin, by dissecting it from the muscles, and turning it up, quite unnecessary. As the bone should always be sawn ratlier higher than the division of the soft parts, Louis, like J. L. Petit, and most other judicious surgeons, iiigldy approved of the employment of a retractor, Ile was likewise the author of some valuable instructions for pre- venting the protrusion of the bone after the oper- ation. (See Mem. de I'Acwl. de Chir. t. ii. p. 200 —410, &c. 4to.) The impartial reader, who takes the trouble to read the remarks on amputation published by this greatest of all the French surgeons of the last century, with the exception perhaps of J. L. Petit and Desault, will be impressed at once with the force and perspicuity of his matter, and with the evident propriety of a good deal of the practice inculcated. Dupuytren often followed the maxim of dividing the skin and loose superficial muscles together. In England, Cheselden, and not J. L. Petit, is regarded as the surgeon who revived Celsus's method, by having recourse to a double incision — that is, by cutting the skin and cellular substance first, and then, by dividing the muscles down to the bone, on a level with the edge of the skin, so that the bone might be sawn higher up, and its end be more completely covered with skin. Whether Cheselden had the priority in this improvement, I cannot presume to say ; but he gave an account of it in Gataker s translation of Le Dran's treatise on the operations as early as 1749, which was long prior to the appearance of Petit's posthumous writings ; and Cheselden further mentions, that, during his apprenticeship to Mr. Feni, he had com- municated to that gentleman his sentiments about the double incision. In order to hinder the stump from assuming a pyramidal, or sugar-loaf shape, which sometimes happened, notwithstanding every improvement hitherto mentioned, a circular bandage was em- ployed, which acted by supporting the skin and muscles, and preventing their retraction. This bandage, when properly applied, from the upper part of the limb downward, fulfilled in a certain measure the end proposed, though many stumps yet turned out very bad ones. Mr. Sharp was induced, therefore, to revive the ancient plan of bringing the edges of the skin together with sutures ; but the pain and other inconveniences of this method were such, that it was never extensively adopted and Mr. Sharp himself ultimately abandoned it. The cross bandage, however, which he used to put over the end of the stump, remains partially in fashion even at the present daj^ (Treatise on the Oper. p. 216 ; Critical Jnqttinj, p. 268.) Since the introduction of an.xsthesia, and its almost universal employment in surgical operations, the principal objection to the use of sutures, namely, the pain which they occasion, has been removed, and they are now again extensively employed, not only in the union of wounds after amputiition, but also after most other surgical operations whore accurate .npposition and union by the first intention are desired. The inefficiency of the method of Louis for hindering the protrusion of the bone was asserted by Valentin, who thought the object might be better attained by dividing the parts while they were in a state of tension ; for which purpose he recommended changing the posture of the limb, according to the parts which he was about to cut. (Rccherches Critiques sur la Chiruryic Modcrnc, 8vo. Amst. 1772.) Valentin's proposal seems never to have excited much attention ; whether on account of its inconvenience, or inefficacy, I know not; certain it is, many cases present tliemsclvps, in which the posture of a limb abso- lutely cannot be changed during the operation.