which was undoubtedly caused hy a blow, is grow- ing on the metacarpal bone of the little finger. {Loo. cit.) Mr. Abernethj' used to mention in his Lec- tures, the case of a boy, from Cornwall, who was so excessively afflicted with an apparent predispo- sition to exostoses, or an exuberant deposition of bony matter, that a very trifling blow would occa- sion a bony swelling on any bono of his body. His ligamentum nuchas was ossified, and prevented the motion of his neck ; the margins of his axillas were also ossified, so that he was, as it were, com- pletely pinioned. Besides all tliis, tlie subject in question had numerous other exostoses on various parts of his body. Mr. Abernethy gave, in this case, muriatic and acetic acids, with the view of dis- solving the lime, which it was conceived might be too abundant in the system; but, even if this theory had been correct, and the acids capable of the che- mical action intended, after passing into the circu- lation, Iiow could they be expected to dissolve only the redundant depositions of phosphate of lime, and at the same time leave the skeleton itself undissolved ? When an exostosis depends upon lues venerea, it is almost always preceded by an acute pain, which in the beginning extends to nearly the whole of the affected bone, but afterwards becomes fixed to the point where the exostosis forms, and it is most severe in the night-time. When an exostosis is caused by scrofula, says Boyer, the pain is duller, or rather it is quite inconsiderable. It is the same with the exostosis which succeeds a blow, or con- tusion, without any manifest general cause. In the latter example, the pain, immediately excited by the accident, subsides in a few days, and the swelling occurs so slowly, that no notice is taken of it till it has attained some magnitude. {Mai. Cliir. t. iii. p. 545.) The disposition to the formation of osslfic tu- mors may prevail throughout the system, and display itself in other textures besides the bones. Thus, Mr. Mayo refers to a specimen of ossification of the lungs, taken from a patient, who died of pulmonary disease after amputation of the leg for ivory exostosis. (See Outlines of Human Patho- logy, p. 14.) The alliance between the ossifica- tion of ligament, muscle, tendon, and exostoses, is well illustrated in Jeflf's skeleton in the Hunte- rian Museum, In this remarkable instance, some of the ossifications form exostoses, while others pass from one part of the skeleton to another. The first prevail especially in places where muscles are inserted. The second have generally followed the course of the larger muscles, and may be seen on the right side, joining the clavicle and acromion to the humerus, in the situation of the supra spin- atus, and passing from the lower angle of the scapula to the humerus in the course of the teres major and latissimus dorsi. On the back more extensive ossifications appear, which aflix the sca- pula; to the sacrum and ilium, and to the spines of the lumbar and dorsal vertebra;. From the pelvis, ossifications extend in the direction of the glutniiis maximus, biceps, and triceps. Ossifications of the tendinous and ligamentous parts are still more common, producing ankylosis of the vertebra;, left elbow, tibia and fibula, and of the bones of the tarsus to one another, (bee Museum Catalogue oj the College of Surgeons.) Hydatids are occasionally found within exos- toses, in which circumstance the former are sup- "OSIS. 661 posed to be the cause of the enlargement of the bone. A remarkable specimen of such a disease in the tibia is mentioned by Sir Astley Cooper, (Surgical Essays, part i. p. 163.) He refers also to a humerus, in the museum of St. Thomas's Hospi- tal, where the shell of the bone is considerably ex- panded, the periosteum over it thickened, and in the seat of the cancellated structure are several hyda- tids, supposed to have been the cause of the enlarge- ment of the exterior surface of the bone, as well as of the increase of its cavity, (Vol. cit. p. 161.) A most interesting case of a bony tumor on the forehead, containing hydatids, was published by Mr. R, Keate, {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. x. p. 278.) An exostosis constantly feels hard ; but its size is various, and it may be indolent or painful. By these signs, and its firm adhesion to the bones, it may be always distinguished from other tumors. Some exostoses cannot be ascertained before death. Such was the case in which the parietal bone was found, after death, to be three times thicker than natural. Such also was the example, related in the memoirs of the Academy at Dijon, in which a person died from an exostosis on the internal side of the OS pubis, the tumor having prevented the discharge of the urine, and the introduction of a catheter, by its pressure on the neck of the bladder. Exostoses may be either acute, or chronic, in their progress. In the first case, which, according to Boyer, happens most commonly in the cellular or malignant exostosis, the appearance and forma- tion of the tumor are quick; the swelling rapidly acquires a considerable size ; and it is always preceded by, and accompanied with, continual vio- lent pain, which the external and internal use of opium has little effect upon, and the intensity of which is not increased by pressure. The pain is sometimes so severe that it occasions a good deal of symptomatic fever. Boyer, who seems not to be aware of the origin of what he terms the cellular, and what Sir Astley Cooper has named fungous exostosis, from the medullary membrane, finds difficulty in accounting for the rapid growth and great sensibility of the tumor, considering the natural density of the bones, and the little energy of their vital properties. In the hardest kinds of exostosis the tumor is preceded by no pain, or, if any, it is very slight; the tumor grows slowly; and although it some- times attains a considerable size, its increase is attended with no particular sensibility, and no dis- turbance of the animal economy. {Boyer, op. cit. t. iii. p. 546.) Oiu- ignorance of the pathology of exostoses, particularly their causes, accounts for the imper- fection of our treatment of them. With the ex- ception of the venereal exostosis or node, there is no species of this ail'ection for which it can be said that we have any medicine of efiicacy, Boyer advances it as a principle that the reso- lution of exostoses hardly ever happens, and that the greater part of the examples recorded in proof of the occurrence were nothing more than peri- ostnses (p. 647). However, a young woman was in the Middlesex Hospital with an exostosis of the humerus. It was sawn off, but grow again. A rubefacient plaster was applied, an abscess followed, and the new bono was absorbed. (See Mayors Human Pathology, p. 13.) When abscesses form, exostoses are very