328 BLOOD, PATHOLOGY OF. organs. The clot, however, as we have seen, is subject both to meclianical disintegration and che- mical decomposition, and the latter may result in deleterious or poisonous compounds. Thus, when, from any cause whatever, blood coagulates in the vessels, as it does after parturition, and in low states of the system, or may be excited to do by various stimuli, coagula may develope poisons ca- pable of producing effects on distant organs, or of generating fever, or erysipelas, or of determining the gangrene of a part. In forming an opinion whether the blood has a tendency to coagulate in any particular case, the surgeon has to consider its actual condition, more especially as respects an absolute or relative ex- cess of fibrin, the state of its circulation, and the absence or presence of substances calculated to excite coagulation. In many instances the act of coagulation is the result of combined agencies, as the absorption of a poison into blood with a languid circulation generally, or a total stagnation in any particular part; or the arrest of a secretion, and the accumulation of effete matter, as of urea, with a general excitation of the molecular actions in the blood and congestion in a part; or a relative excess of fibrin with debility, exhaustion, and sinking ; or a morbid condition of blood, or retarded circulation, supervening on disease of a vessel. The occurrence is incidental to so many diseases that no uniform plan of treatment can be laid down for its cure or pre- vention, but it may be stated generally, that re- medies which maintain the current of the blood in its fuU force throughout all the organs, and those which prevent remora, or congestion or stagnation in parts, are calculated to prevent this serious pathological condition, and that alkalies and many saline medicines have a similar effect. It is not certain whether any medicines are capable of dissolving coagula when once formed, but this effect has beeu attributed to alkaline medicines generally. A' knowledge of this tendency of the blood to coagulate and form concretions in the heart and vessels, during life, is of the utmost importance in the prognosis of surgical diseases, and it should in- fluence the treatment in many important respects. Owing to the modifications which loss of blood produces in the blood remaining in the system, bleeding, indicated in the earlier stages of inflam- matory diseases with en tonic action and absolute excess of fibrin, is contraindicated in the latter stages with exhausted vital power and only rela- tive excess of fibrin. In the first instance, it is calculated to prevent fibrinous deposits and their fatal results, and in the latter to promote them. Dr. Richardson has well remarked, that in croup, for instance, death may result from either of two causes. Where the symptoms are clearly those of asphyxia, dependent on obstruction of the air passages, the operation of tracheotomy may be ad- visible, but if the air enters the lungs with mode- rate freedom at each inspiration, and indications of emphysema are present with symptoms of ob- struction at the heart, the operation would be use- less and unwarrantable. In another class of cases, where a deposit of fibrin may take place from waste of the fluid constituent of the blood, as from profuse perspirations, colliquative diarrhoea, and ■ ' ' increasing relatively tlie proportion of tlie like. fibrin and producing weakness and languor of cir- culation, as in cholera, consumption, and other diseases, the use of appropriate diluents, as whey, IS indicated, and the avoidance of further depletion by bleeding, purgatives, and other remedies. To consider the actual condition of the blood as respects Its tendency to coagulate, the influences which pro- mote or retard that effect, and the results of its coagulation during life, may be laid down as an aphorism in the treatment of all surgical diseases. {For the Bibliography, vide art. Blood, Patho- logy of.)] Henry AncM. [BLOOD, CRYSTALLISATION QY.—H<k- matoidin in ilte blood.] — [ Virchow first described crystals in extravasated blood, of a rhomboidal or oblong rectangular figure, yellowish-red, or of a pink or ruby colour, sometimes verging to black. They have been observed in the coagula of aneurismal dila- tations and obliterated vessels, in abscesses, in extra- vasations in the brain, and the skin, in the blood of the spleen, and in the GraafEan vesicles. They may form within, or external to, the vessels, and' within, or external to, the red corpuscles, and are regarded as a proteine compound in connection with haematin. This tendencyof theorganicconstituentsof theblood to crystallise during life appears to be associated with some pathological condition of the blood, but we are unable at present to define its nature. The crystals often occur in connection with fat, and may be suspected where we find fatty matter punctated with blood. Tetrahedral colourless crystals have also been observed by Robin and Verdeil in the serum of blood.] Henry Ancell. [BLOOD, PATHOLOGY OF.] [Physical de- viations from the healthy state exhibited by the blood were recognised by the best observers from the earliest periods, and although about the commencement of the present century, and for some time subsequently, it was denied that the fluids can be the seat of disease, yet, by the aid of chemical and microscopical investigations, a modi- fied humoral doctrine is now firmly established. The morbid affections of the blood, either as respects its material constitution, or the molecular actions and changes to which it is subject, can onl\' be under- stood in their relations to its variable conditions in health, but it does not come within the scope of this work to enter into the phj'sologic<il details. It has been truly remarked, that in the zoological series, the chemical and vital composition of the free fluids and fixed solids of the living organism stand in direct and intimate relation to each other, the liquid and solid parts being " invariably and necessarily linked into union by an inherent agree- ment of general properties." The organic mate- rials engaged in the fabrication of the solids are produced, or prepared in the fluids, and " what is not or has not been present in the iluids can never constitute an integral part of the solids." (7V/c Blood, ils Chemistry, Physiohqy and Pathology, by T. Williams, M.D. Brit.'and For. Rev.) So also, as a general proposition, before the materies mor- borum of whatever nature, can produce their effects on the solids, they must be dissolved in the fluids. The nutritive fluids and more stationary solids ex- ist in their simplest state in the lowest extreme of the animal scale, increasing in complexity as that scale ascends, and the red blood of the mammal is not only the most complex of these fluids, but of all organic substances. This is shown by the variety of its proximate principles, the number of elements of which they are composed, and their high com- bining equivalents. Chemically considered, blood