is lacerated, and the hernia passes out, under that of the internal oblique. The fascia transversalis also may be completely lacerated, or it may be dilated into another investment. We maj' say, then, that the direct hernia is at all events seldom covered by the cremaster, but that it may have one covering which the oblique hernia has not; namely, that which is formed by a weak and dilated portion of the tendon of the transversalis muscle. In other respects, the coverings of the two hernias are alike. The earlier dissections made by Hesselbach, led him to suppose, that the opening, through which the protrusion happens, is always annular, and the swelling in front of the ring globular; but subse- quent cases, which he has met with, have informed him, that the opening is frequently sloping and longish; in which circumstance, the resemblance of the tumor to that of the external hernia with a shortened neck, is such, that the only mark of distinction between the two cases is the position of the spermatic cord. In females, even this cri- terion is of course deficient. {Hesselbach, p. ,57.) Though individuals of almost every age are subject to internal hernia, they are much less com- mon, than external cases. According to Hessel- bach, they may be known by the following cha- racters;—1. The swelling, formed by the body of the hernial sac, immediately in front of the abdo- minal ring. 2. The situation of the spermatic cord. 3. That of the epigastric artery. 1. The neck of the hernial sac, besides being very short, does not, like that of an external in- guinal hernia, take an oblique direction, but ad- vances straight from behind forwards, through the abdominal ring ; and, as the body of the sac lies directly over the neck, none of the swelling formed by the distension of the latter part can be felt; nor does any other tumour, produced by the body of a hernial sac, ever cause a circular spherical swelling directly before the abdominal ring. The situation of the neck of this kind of hernia must already apprise us, that it is nearer than the ex- ternal to the symphysis of the puhes; or, as Sir Astley Cooper states, the tumor below the ab- dominal ring is situated nearer the penis, than the swelling caused by an external or oblique inguinal hernia. {On Abdominal Hernia, part i. p. 67, ed. 2.) In women, the shape of the tumor is the only character by which the case can be distinguished. {Hesselbach, p. 43.) Above the abdominal ring, as Sir Astley Cooper has explained, " the sac passes directly upwards, so that no part of it takes the usual oblique direction towards the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, but rather the contrary direction towards the linea alba." 2. The spcnnatic cord passes on the outer side of the direct inguinal hernia, instead of behind it, as in oblique cases, particularly at and above the abdominal ring. (See Sir A. Cooper, op. cit. part i. p. 67, ed. 2.) Hesselbach describes the cord as lying either upon the outer side, or outer half of the fore part of the upper portion of the hernial sac, the blood-vessels forwards, and the vas de- ferens backwards. When the sac is adherent to the whole length of the cord, below the external ring the testis is not situated under the fundus of the sac, as in the oblique scrotal hernia, but cither .at the fore part or outer side of the body of the sac. The hernial sac, as far as the abdominal ring, is excluded from any of the coverings of the INIA. 963 spermatic cord [but, at this opening, it descends between the cremasteric covering of the cord and the external spermatic fascia], 3. The epigastric artery always ascends oblique- ly inwards at the outer side of the neck of" the hernial sac. Hesselbach has never seen but one case of internal inguinal hernia, in which there was a deviation from this rule. The example has been already mentioned; and was one in which the epigastric artery arose from the obturatrix about an inch from the origin of this last vessel. The viscera, usually contained in an internal ingui- nal or scrotal hernia, on the right side, are the lower part of the small intestines, and sometimes omentum; on the left, a part of the small intes- tines, frequently omentum, and, when the tumor is large, the colon may also protrude. A pro- trusion of the bladder may accompany the dis- ease, but that organ is of course always excluded from the cavity of the hernial sac. When the remains of the umbilical artery are situated more outward than usual, and lie over the centre of the space, at which the protrusion happens, an internal inguinal hernia may be double, the prolap- sus happening on each side of that ligamentous substance, which is itself also pushed outwards. In consequence of the accidental presence of some very strong tendinous fibres at the centre of the fascia, called by Hesselbach the internal inguinal ligament, there may also be two distinct protru- sions, with separate hernial sacs (p. 46). When the surgeon, by a due consideration of the foregoing circumstances, has formed a judgment resfiecting the nature of the hernia, he will be better qualified to regulate the treatment of the case. Tlius, in the external or oblique inguinal hernia, he will know that the pressure employed for the reduction of the bowels should be made in the direction of the neck of the hernial sac, viz. obliquely upwards and outwards, towards the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium; but that when the neck of the satne kind of hernia is very short, and the posterior side of the inguinal canal has been removed by the approximation of the internal to the external ring, the pressure should be made nearly in a straight line from before backwards. For what Hesselbach terms the long-necked external inguinal hernia, the pad of a truss should be so constructed as not merely to press upon the external abdominal ring, but also upon the neck of the sac and the inner opening of the inguinal canal. But, when the neck of the hernia is very short, the pad should be nearly of the same form as that required for an internal inguinal hernia. {Hesselbach, p. 38; and Brunnin()hausen, Oemcinnu/zi(/er Unlerricht uber die Britches &o' Wlirzb. 1811.) For this last case, or the direct inguinal hernia, Sir Astley Cooper recommends the truss to be longer than for an oblique bubonocele, because the hole, through which the sac emerges from the abdomen, is one inch and a half farther inwards towards the pubcs. (Op. cit. part. i. p. 67.) In attempting the reduction of an internal inguinal hernia, the pressure should bo directed nearly straight backwards; and the pad of the truss should only act upon the external abdominal ring. (^Hesselbach, p. 46.) The direction given by Sir Astley Cooper is, that the tumor should be grasped with one hand, " but the fingers of the other are to bo placed at the external abdominal ring to knead the hernia at that part, directing the pres- 3Q2