138 ANESTHESIA. ing point, but containing very little vapour. By using a copious bath of cold water to supply the caloric carried oiY by the evaporation of the ether, the writer was able to make every patient insen- sible with this agent, and generally in the space of four minutes. The recovery from the ett'ects of ether is generally slower than from tliose of chlo- roform, and the patient often remains in a state of inebriation for about half an hour after it. Sul- phui-ic ether has, perhaps, but one advantage over chloroform, which is, however, an important one— it is its great safety. There is reason to conclude from experiments on annuals, that tliis agent is altogether incapable of causing sudden accidents, such as those which have happened in tlie employ- ment of chloroform. Only two deaths are known to have occurred during "tlie inhalation of ether. They both took place in France. In one case the patient appeared to die slowly from want of air, owing to the faulty construction of the inhaler. The other death occurred suddenly, during the removal of a tumor of the upper jaw, in a very unfavourable subject, and was probably caused by loss of blood. The writer of this article has employed amylene in between two and three hundred operations, but has discontinued it on account of two accidents which he met with. Amylene was discovered by M. Balard in 1844. It is made by distilling amy- lic alcohol, i. e. purified fusel oil, with chloride of zinc. It is a colourless and very mobile liquid, only two thirds as heavy as water, and less than half the weight of chloroform. It is composed of ten atoms carbon, and ten atoms hydrogen. It boils at 102^ Fahr., and the specific gravity of its vapour is 2*45. Its solubility in water is curiously slight, as it requires about 10,000 parts of water for its solution. It has an odour somewhat re- sembling that of naphtha, not so strong or permanent as that of sulphuric ether, but stronger and more permanent than that of chloroform. It is almost without taste or pungency. The amount of amy lene used in making an adult patient insensible is about half a fluid ounce, and is, consequently, in- termediate between those of chloroform and ether In a long operation, indeed, the amylene has to be repeated so frequently that a larger quantity_ is used than in the case of sulphuric ether. With the exception of the accidents alluded to above, the action of amylene was extremely favourable, and it appeared to possess certain advantages over chloroform in the following circumstances :—first, its vapour being almost altogether without pun gency, it was easier to breathe ; second, the opera tion could be performed with a less amount of narcotism of the brain than in the case of chloro- form or ether. In the operations under amylene the patient was usually in an apparently waking state, though really unconscious of what was oc- curring around, and occupied with his dreams. In a few cases he was conscious, and even talked to his surgeon during the operation. Third, the re covery was more prompt even than after chloro form ; and foui'th, sickness was extremely rare after amylene. Amylene does not cause insensibility unless the air which the patient breathes contains as much as fifteen per cent, of the vapom-, and judging from ex- periments on animals, the vapour may be increased 10 thirty per cent, without danger. When ad- ministered on a handkerchief or sponge, it is pro- bably attended with as little or even less danger than undiluted chloroform. It has been largely used in Paris, Strasbourg, Berlin, and Lyons, without any accidents from its use being recorded. In the two cases in which death occurred during its use, the heart suddenly ceased to beat when the patients were not very insensible. The breath- ing continued in one case for ten minutes afterwards, and in the other case for even a much longer period. The means which the writer employed for the ex- hibition of amylene were the same which he has found so successful in the employment of chloro- foiTO. If he should use amylene again, he would be inclined to give it from a large bladder or bag, so that the quantity of vapour in the air might be under complete control. Several agents have been inhaled with success, in a few cases, for preventing the pain of opera- tions, besides those treated of above, but as they have not come into general use, it is unnecessary to enumerate them in a work on surger)'. The process of administering an anaesthetic va- pour is so much the same in every case where severe pain is to be prevented, that very little requires to be said respecting particular operations. It is desirable, as a general rule, that the patient should be placed, before inhaling, in the position in which the operation will be performed, so that the surgeon will be able to commence without delay, as soon as insensibility is induced. In opera- tions on the back, however, the patient should inhale first, and be turned over afterwards ; and in cases where moving him causes great pain, he may inhale in bed, and be moved when insensible. In lithotomy the patient should be placed on the table, with a pillow under his head, and inhale till he is insensible. The sound may then be intro- duced, and afterwards the bandages should be applied, and the patient be drawn down to the foot of the operating table, a little more vapour being administered whilst this is done, to keep up the insensibility. In lithotomy in children, the feet and hands are sometimes not bandaged, but in this case the person administering the ansesthetic should hold the head or shoulders of the child with one hand, whilst the surgeon makes his first incision, otherwise the child may push its body away at this moment, unless the insensibility is deeper than is necessary ; for the assistants who hold the legs, and think they are doing great service, make a fulcrum which enables the child to do this. In amputations, the tourniquet may with advantage be adjusted whilst the patient is inhaling, and tight- ened as soon as he is insensible. Operations on the anus and rectum obviously cannot be performed under chloroform or ether, whilst the patient is on his feet, and leaning over a bed or table ; he must be placed either on his side with the knees drawn up, or else in the lithotomy position. Some pa- tients have a great tendency to straighten out the leirs during operations on the anus, unless they are made very deeply insensible, and in the cases ot strong muscular men, it is desirable for the surgeon to have two assistants, as the great muscles of the lower extremities are with difliculty restrained, even if they retain but a third of their ordinary '"'TnOTeat operations on the face, such as the re- moval of tumors of the maxillary bones, there a often considerable difficulty in keepmg up ue insensibility during the operation; but by having