_ This complication may be known, if no adhe- hernia may protrude for the first time in an adult. (See Case bt/ Sir A.Cooper, On Hernia, part i. p. 75, ed. 2.) The appearance of a hernia in very early in- fancy, Mr. Pott observes, -will always make it probable that it is of this kind; but, he was not correct in asserting that, in an adult, there is no reason for supposing rupture to be of this sort, but the patient having been afflicted with it from his infancy; and that there is no external mark or character, whereby it can be certainly distinguished from one contained in a common hernial sac. This statement is erroneous, inasmuch as the hernia congenita, while the bowels are down, is attended with difficulty or impossibility of feeling the testis, which part in the common scrotal hernia is always distinguishable under the fundus of the ; hernial sac. Mr. Pott notices that " in very young chil- I dren a piece of intestine, or omentum, may get pretty low down in the sac, while the testicle is still in the groin, or even within the abdomen. In this case the application of a truss would be highly improper; for, in the latter, it might pre- vent the descent of the testicle froiji the belly into the scrotum ; in the former, it must neces- sarily bruise and injure it, give a great deal of unnecessary pain, and can prove of no real use. ■ Such bandage, therefore, ought never to be ap- plied on a rupture in an infant, unless the tes- . tide can be fairly felt in the scrotum, after the gut or caul is replaced ; and when it can be so felt, a truss can never be put on too soon." This is also the advice delivered by Sir A. Cooper. As Mr. Pott has explained, an old rupture, originally congenital, is subject to a stricture made by the sac itself, as well as to that produced by the abdominal ring, or, as might have been added, to that caused by the superior opening of the ingui- nal canal. The fact he noticed several times, both in the dead and in the living. " I have seen (says he) such stricture made by the sac of one of these herniee as produced all those bad symp- toms which render the operation necessary ; and I have met with two different strictures, at near an inch distance from each other, in the body of a dead boy, about fourteen, one of which begirt the in- ■- testine so tight that I could not disengage it with- out dividing the sac. " In this kind of hernia I have also more fre- quently found connections and adhesions of the parts to each other than in the common one; (see also Sir A. Cooper., op. cit. part i. p. 70.) but tiiere is one kind of connection sometimes met with in the congenital hernia, which can never be found in a common hernial sac, and which rnay require all the dexterity of an operator to set free; I mean that of the intestine with the testicle. " If a large quantity of fluid should be col- lected in the sac of a congenital hernia, and, by adhesions and connections of the parts within, the entrance into it from the abdomen should be totally closed (a case which I have twice seen), the tightness of the tumor, the difficulty of dis- tinguishing the testicle, and the fluctuation of the fluid, may occasion it to be mistaken for a common hydrocele; and if, without attending to other circumstance.% but trusting merely to the feel and look of the scrotum, a puncture bo hastily HERNIA 977 sions have taken place, by returning all the con- tents of the tumor into the abdomen, while the patient is in the horizontal posture. " Then, by putting the finger against the abdominal ring, the water will slip by it, and fall down into the scro- tum, producing a transparent tumor, or true hy- drocele ; after which, if the pressure of the finger is a little lessened at- the ring, and the patient is desired to cough, the intestine and omentum will be felt falling down into their former situation." (See Sir A. Cooper, On Hernia, part i. p. 75, ed. 2.) Mr. Pott also believed that common ruptures, or those in a peritoneal sac, are generally gradu- ally formed, that is, they are first inguinal, and by degrees become scrotal; but that the congenital are seldom remembered by the patient to have been in the groin only. As the tunica vaginalis is thicker than the peritoneum, the contents of a congenital hernia are not so easily felt as those of a common rupture. In children the hernia generally contains intestine only, the omentum not being in them sufficiently long commonly to pro- trude. The sac of a congenital hernia, especially when the case is strangulated, is everywhere equally tense (Hesselbach, p. 36), and below it the testis cannot be felt. The reader must not conclude, however, from the above account that every rupture in children is congenital. Mr. Lawrence has related a case of strangulated inguinal hernia not congenital, which took place in an infant only fourteen months old (p. 65, ed. 3). The common inguinal hernia, which first pro- trudes at the inner opening of the inguinal canal, and which has the epigastric artery on the inner side of its neck, as already explained, has been named by Hesselbach eaiernal; while the less common in- stance, in which the viscera burst directly through the aponeuroses of the transverse and internal oblique muscles, and pass directly out of the ab- dominal ring, leaving the epigastric artery on the outer side of the neck of the sac, is distinguished by the epithet internal. (Atiat. Chir. Abhandlung ubc.r den Ursprtmg der Leistenbriichc; Wiirzb. 1806.) "The inguinal congenital hernia (says Scarpa) cannot be divided into external and ik- ternal. It is evident that it must always be external, since the neck of the tunica vaginalis invariably corresponds to the point at which the spermatic cord passes under the margin of the transverse muscle. As for other circumstances the tunica vaginalis lies in its whole course in the same manner as the sac of a common ingui- nal hernia. Like this, it passes completely through the inguinal canal from one end to the other, resting upon the anterior surface of the spermatic cord. Consequently, it passes between the separation of the inferior fibres of the obliquus internus and the principal origin of the cremaster muscle. (See Wrisbcrg. Si/llog. Comment. Anat. p. 20.) After coming out of the ring, as it is always united to the spermatic cord, it is enclosed in the muscular and aponeurotic sheath of the cremaster muscle which accompanies it to the bottom of the scrotum! Since the tunica vaginalis, including the displaced viscera, enters the inguinal canal on the outside made, it may create a great deal of trouble, and of the point, at which the spermatic cord crosses possibly do fatal mischief." (Works vol. ii.) I the epigastric artery, it is manifest that, as it fol ' 3 R