CATARACT. Effectual relief cannot be obtained unless tlie tumor be removed with Daviel's scissors, as close as possible to the wound ; the dressings skilfully arranged : and the eye kept closed and quiet for eight days or a fortnight. In such a case, a whitish scar is always permanently left. (Beer. b. ii. p. 393.) ^ Beer observes, that when the pupil contracts very considerably after the incision in the cornea has been made, and the cataract at the same time remains at some distance from the uvea, too small an opening has generally been formed, and it ought to be enlarged. But if the cataract cannot be forced through the pupil, without making pressure on the lower part of tlie eyeball, and the closure of the pupil should still continue, the circumstance pro- ceeds from the loss of the aqueous humour, and the second stage of extraction must be deferred a little while, until the pupil dilates again, and the oper- ation must then be finished in a very moderate light. (Also GutJirte's Operative Surqeni of tie Eye, p. 305.) ^ ./ ^ _ Beer notices the occasional protrusion of the ins, in the third stage of the operation, more or less between the edges of the incision in the cornea, immediately after the exit of the cataract. Here, says Beer, the iris should be reduced without the least delay ; and the pupil, which is completely oval, made round again ; a thing, which the oper- ator may easily perform by applying his hand flat upon the patient's forehead, letting the latter shut his eye, rubbing the upper eyelid quickly, yet gently, with the thumb, and then suddenlv openino- the eye. by which means a moderate light will at once strike it, and produce an expansion of the iris. As Beer observes, if the patient be verv restless, make frequent attempts to open his eyes in the least, and partly lie upon the eye, or if in changing the compresses the greatest caution be not used, the eye will perhaps be roughly pressed upon, and the ins protrude between the displaced and half- opened edues of the incision in the cornea, to which it will become adherent during a slow and seldom very violent inflammation. From the moment when the iris thus interprises itself between the sides of the wound, the aqueous humour begins to collect, and at length pushes the iris considerably forwards. In this case, Beer recommends carefully opening the eye in a very moderate light, and adopting the expedients formerly mentioned for the purpose of making the iris recede. The dres- sings should be re-applied, and the eye kept closed and very quiet for at least eight or ton days, so as to hinder a recurrence cff this disagreeable accident. But, if the iris should be already adherent to the edges of the wound in the cornea, the eye incapable of bearing light, and the aqueous humour more or less accumulated in the anterior chamber, Beer says everything must be loft to time, while the eye is kept lightly covered for about a fortnight, and the existing inflammation [iroperly treated. Then, if the protrusion, or staphyloma of the iris should not be diminished by the means calculated for lessening the inflammation, caustic or the knife must be employed. {Beer, b. ii. p. 391.) The same causes, which have been .-ibove specified, as conducive to a protrusion of the iris, may also pro- duce a discharge of the vitreous luimour. In all patients who have bi^en operated upon for cataracts, the edges of the eyelids become glued together with mucus on the first night after the operation : yet according to Beer, in individuals particularly subject to copious secretions of mucus, It IS not imusual for the puncta lachrymalia and lachrymal ducts to be blocked up with thickened mucus, whereby the tears are prevented from duly passing down into the nose, so that from time to time they are discharged from the inner angle of tlie eye, and collect under the eyelids. In this case, the patient soon begins to complain of a vio- lent, continual, and increasing sense of pressure on the eye, and the upper eyelid swells, unattended \vith any redness. Irritable persons also expe- nence a stupifying dull headach. These incon- veniences may be immediately removed by clear- ing away the mucus with a little lukewarm milk from the inner canthus, and letting a stream of clean water fall over the cheek. Care must also be taken to hinder a recurrence of the circumstance, and to remove it, if it should happen. After extraction, the loss of the lens must be supplied by proper spectacles, which should not however be fitted to the eyes for several weeks after the cure has been accomplished, in order to let the eye recover first as much power as possible, without artificial aid. The power of adjustment will necessarily be lost, and two pairs of spectacles be required ; one for near, the other, for distant objects. Of Keratonyxis. Gleize, having commenced an operation by extraction, was prevented from completing it by a sudden movement of the patient's head ; "instead of enlarging the opening in the cornea with scissors, he introduced a needle through it, and depressed the lens. This case led to the invention of the new method of operating by Iceratonyxis, as it is now termed, a description of which Gleize published in 1786. Gleize's method was sim- plified by Conradi, who merely opened the cornea and capsule of the lens with a lance-shaped knife, and left the removal of the cataract to be effected by the absiirbeiits. Several improvements were sniisequeiitly made in this method by Dr. H. Buchhorn, who first gave it the name of Kcra- tonyjcis, and adopted the practice of dividing the lens, as well as the capsule, and of bringing the fragments forward into the anterior chamber. About the same time, Mr. Saunders, in England, perfected a similar operation, and applied it par- ticularly to congenital cataracts. (See Guthrie's Operative Surgery of the. Eye, pp. 331, 332.) This operation requires tlie pupil to be first arti- ficially dilated. The belladonna should be applied the day before, and on the morning of the operation, in order that the pupil may be completely dilated ; and a few drops of a solution of belladonna, or of atropine, shoidd be dropped into the eye, half an hour before its commencement, so as to prevent a contraction of the pupil during the operation. In the absence ofcliloroform thebost method of keeping very young patients suliiciently steady dnringtlie perform- ance of keratonyxis, is to bind their arms firmly to their side with a broad roller or folded sheet. They arc then to be placed on a table in the recumbent position, and the head prevented fioni moving by an assistant pressing his hands firmly upon the temples. Keratonyxis admits of being divided into two stages : first, the introduction of the needle through the cornea and pupil as far as the cata-