rity of the cases in which it has been emploj'ed death has resulted. To distinguish between ordi- nary haemorrhage of local origin, and that pro- ceeding from a constitulional vice, is thus of the greatest importance, " seeing that in the one the cautery may be demanded, and its use prove pro- fitable ; while in the other it will not only fail, but injure." Deligation of the principal arterial trunk, which has occasionallj' been resorted to, is equally condemned by the eminent surgeon from whose paper we have so largely quoted. In Mr. Blag- den's case of haemorrhage after extraction of a tooth, quoted at large in former editions of this Dictionary, after the failui-e of a variety of re- medies, including the cautery, Sir B. Brodie tied the carotid ; but the case proved fatal. After tying a principal vessel, the flow of blood is quickly re- sumed on the distal side (see Hemorrhage), and the capillary heemorrhage can be but little, if at all, affected. Even should the original haemor- rhage be arrested, the patient's life will be com- promised by bleeding from the recent wound. In a case of Mr. Wardrop's, in which the haemorrhage was induced by the insertion of a seton, this gen- tleman secured no less than nine vessels ; blood continued to ooze from innumerable small orifices over the whole surface of the wound, which every mode of treatment usually resorted to failed to arrest, and the patient died. {On Bleeding, p. 14.) M. Rous tied the radial and ulnar on account of bleeding from the palm ; his patient died in the course of the evening ; the blood oozed not only from the palm of the hand, but also from the two incisions of the fore-arm." For analogous reasons, general inclusion of the bleeding surface by ligature is equally inappropriate. Stt/ptics, by their local and astringent effects upon the capillaries, are useful in this, as in ordinary haemorrhage ; but the remedy most to be relied on is pressure. Creosote, perchloride of iron, or nitrate of silver, by forming a coagulum, may act powerfully for a short time as hcemostatica, and fulfil the impor- tant indication of obtaining a dry bed for a compress of lint or cotton ; but their continued use being inconsistent with pressure, and far less important when this can be applied, they must be abandoned if they do not quickly take effect. Mr. Millar gives conclusive evidenci^, from numerous cases, of its beneficial results, and states his belief that, in every successful case, pressure, early and judi- ciously employed, has been found one of the most important agents of the cure. A lacerated wound has been known to cease to bleed by con- verting it into an incised wound. All other remedies failing, the operation of transfusion has been resorted to. Mr. Lano had a successful case, the progress of which the writer of this article watched. The patient was a lad eleven years old, who had exhibited tho haemor- rhagic tendency on former occasions. He had bled for six days from a wound made in tho operation for strabismus, and was reduced to tho most ex- treme state of spanffimia, tlireatening immediate dissolution, and ns a last resource, when all hope had vanished, was saved by transfusion from the vein of a " stout healthy young woman." " Tho wound at the bend of the aim healed in about ten days, and the boy, after being wheeled out in a hand-carriage in the open air, soon recovered his appetite and strength, and in about three weeks H.aEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS. 867 went into the country, whence he returned in a few days perfectly well." {Lancet, vol. i. 1840, p. 185.) It is worthy of record that this lad died of con- sumption a few years afterwards. Mr. Millar remarks on this operation :—"There is a risk of bleeding continuing to a dangerous extent from the wound made to reach the vein; but experience is not so very unfavourable on this point." " Wounds of the larger blood-vessels, such as that in venesection, are usually found to heal as readily in haemorrhagic individuals as in any other set of patients. This, however, is not always the case." {Med. Cliir. Rev. vol. xxix. p. 228.) " Haemorrhagic patients have perished by the venesection wound. Such risks vvill justly deter us from having recourse to transfusion until other means have been tried and failed. But when in extremis, we ought surely to afford the patient the chance, and that no improbable one, to be derived from this dernier ressort, the more especially as we have at least one good fact in its favour afforded by Mr. Lane." {On the Treatment of the Hcemorrlirigic Diathesis, by James Millar, Esq., F.H.S.E. ^c. London and Edin. Monthly Journal, 1842, p. 567. This paper contains refe- rences to numerous cases and to the literature of the subject generally.)] Henry Ancell. BiBLioG. —J. C. Otto, Lend. Med. and Surgical Journ. vol. XX. 1808. Idem, 1811. Dr. J. Hay, Lond. Med. and Sarg. Journ. 1815. Blagden, Lond. Med. Chir. Trans. 1816. Primer, Versuclie einer Physiolosr. des Blutz, p. 318, Leipzig, 1823. Journal des ProgrSs pour 1828, vol. ii. Schreyer, Bulletin des Sc. M^di- cales, Avnl 1828. AndraVs Patliolog:ical Anatomy, translated by Townsend and West, 1829. Archives Wnerales, Oct. 1833. Revue Mddicale, Oct. 1835. Wardrop, On Blood-letting, 1835. Sanson, Des H^- morrliaffies Traumatiques, 1836. Johnson's Med. July. 1838. Ancell, On the Blood. Chir. Rev. ^<!V?."''^^^?'^^*'''P-^^3- Liston, Lancet, April 20,' isd9. /S. tiane, On the Haimorrhagic Diathesis, Lancet, vol. i 1840, p. 185. Du Bois, Brit, and For Rev. Jan. 1840 p 247. KeHdrick, Med. Gaz. vol. v. David Hay, M.D Quadrat, J. Allan, M.D., J. Mil- lar, J. H. Bennett, M.D., Lond. and Edinb. Monthly Journ. 1842. Clutterhuck, Lancet, No. 138 x> 99 Gazette Mdd. de Paris, Feb. 1842. Diet, des Sciences Med., art. Cas. Rarcs. London Med. Repository, vol. ni. p. 60. C. 0. T. Wac/ismut/i, Die Bluter- krankheit, 1849. Grandidier, Die H'amophilie Oder die Bluterkrankheit, 1855. A System of Sureerv edited by T. Holmes, vol. i. 1860. H.ffiMORRHOrDS (from aXfia, blood, and ^60), to flow). See Pilks. H.ai;MOSTATICS. Substances which arrest haemorrhage. Of these the coagulum of blood is the most important. The greater the proportion of fibrine in the blood, and the more dense the clot the greater its power as a htemostatic. (See H/EMORnHAGE, II/EMORRHAGIC DiATHBSI.S.) HARE-LIP. {Labium Leporinu7n, hat.; Bee de Lidvro, Fr.; Ilasenscharte, Lippenspalt, Ger.) A fissure or perpendicular division of one or both lips. The term has arisen from the fancied re- semblance of the part to the upper lip of a hare. Occasionally tho fissure is more or less oblique; it may be directly below the septum of the nose, or correspond to one of the nostrils. Tho two por- tions of tho lip are generally movable, and not adherent to the alvenlary process ; in some cases they are closely attached to it. Children are frequently born with this kind of malformation, which is called a natural hare-lip, while that which is produced by a wound is named 3 K 2