DISLOCATION new proposal. " Compound luxations» (says this autlior) are of a more dangerous nature than compound fractures, for very plain reasons; but It a surgeon should judge it advisable to attempt saving a limb under such threatening circum- stances, / am incUncd to think, from what I have observed, he tviU be more lilcely to succeed by saioinq off- the head of the bone, especially if it has /onn been quite out, and exposed to the air." Mr. Gooch afterwards takes notice of a case in which Mr. Cooper of Bungay sawed off the ends of the tibia and fibula, and preserved the limb the patient being able to walk and work for his bread for many years afterwards. Other examples are also briefly mentioned, in which the lower end of the radius was sawn oft; and the head of the second bone of the thumb. The late Mr. Hey of Leeds was induced to make trial of this plan in a compound luxation of the ankle. The example, however, which he pub- lished, is decidedly unfavourable to the practice, as the following passage will show: — "I was in hopes that this patient would have been able to walk stoutlj', but in this I was disappointed. He walked indeed without a crutch; but his gait was slow, his leg remaining weak, and hif toes turning outwards, which rather surprised me, as his \e<r was very straight when I ceased attending him. ° Mr. Hey did not recite this case with the view of recommending a similar practice in all cases of this accident; for he had not always adopted it, nor was he of opinion that the same mode of treatment, whether by replacing the bones, sawing off their extremities, or amputating the limb, ought to be universally practised. When the laceration of the capsular ligament and integuments is not greater than is sufficient to permit the end of the tibia to_ pass through them; and when, at the same time, the joint or contiguous parts have suffered no other injury, Mr. Hey recommends the replacing of the bone, and a union of the integuments by suture, with the treatment adapted to wounds of the joints. {Practical Obs. in Sjir- gery, chap. xi. ed. 2.) The most ingenious arguments, which have yet been urged in behalf of the practice of sawing off^ the ends of the bones, in compound dislo- cations of the ankle, are those recently published by Sir A. Cooper. However, he does not advise the plan without restrictions. If the dislocation (says he) can be easily reduced, without sawing off the end of the bone; if it be not too obliquely broken to remain firmly upon the astragalus after being reduced; if the end of the bone be not shattered, for then the small loose pieces of bone should be removed, and the surface of the bone be smoothed by the saw ; if the patient be not excessively irritable, %nd the muscles affected with violent spasms, impeding reduction, and causing a displacement of the bones after they have been reduced; he advises the immediate reduction of the parts, and uniting the wound by adhesion. In the opposite circumstances, rather than am- putate the limb, be would saw off the ends of the bones. {Sunjical Essays, part i. p. 154 ; and Treatises, p. 302.) M. RoLix gives much praise to the English sur- geons for the judicious boldness which they have evinced in cases of this description. Although i^abncius Hildanus, Ferrand, Desault, Laumonier, and several other French surgeons, have, like Z f), 1 P .r'''"*"'"'"' '«"tured to remo.. SLTv iLf h f'"ealus, when this bone was, totally separated from the scaphoid, and pro- truded m compound luxations; yet M Roux Ic knowledges, that the bold practL oTsawTng off the lower end of the humerus, the lower end of the radius, the lower end of the tibia, and also of the fibula at the same time, originated with, and was first executed by, English surgeons. {Paraime, de la Chirurgie Anglaise avec la Chirurqie Fran- ^atse, p. 208, 209.) ^ The foregoing general observations will now enable us to enter upon the dislocations of each i particular joint. Dislocations of thk lower Jaw. The lower jaw can only be luxated forward, and either one or both of its condyles may become displaced in this direction. [The dislocation of both condyles together is more frequent than that ot one condyle singly; out of seventy-six cases collected by Malgaigne, he found that in filty- lourbotn condyles were implicated. (Traile des Fraot. Sfc. t. ii. p. 288.)] Every dislocation, except that forward, is ren- dered impossible by the formation of the parts. [One exception only has been recorded, in which the_ condyle was dislocated oiitivards, and rested against the external surface of the zygomatic pro- cess, but in this case there was also a fracture of the bone a little anterior to its ramus. (See Robert, Jotcrn. de Our. 1844, p. 265, Malgaigne, loc, cit. p. 317.)J The lower jaw cannot even be dislocated forward, unless the mouth, just before the occurrence of the accident, be very much open. Whenever the chm is considerably depressed, the condyles slide from behind forward, under the transverse root of the zygomatic processes. The cartilaginous caps which envelop the condyles, and follow them in all their motions, still afford them an ai-ticular ca- vity; but, the depression of the bone continuing, the ligaments give way, the condyles glide before the emittenticB articulares, and slip under the zygo- matic arches. Hence a dislocation mostly happens while the patient is laughing, gaping, &c. A blow on the jaw, a spasm, or any irregular action of the muscles, when the mouth is wide open, may easily cause the accident. It has occasionally arisen from the exercise of great force in drawing out the teeth. Sir Astley Cooper has known a lu,xation of both condyles, produced by a boy sud- denly putting an apple into his mouth, to keep it from the reach of a playfellow. (On Dislocations, p. 389.) Whenever the jaw has once been dislo- cated, the same causes more easily reproduce the occurrence. In certain individuals, the ligaments are so loose, that a dislocation is produced by any slight attempt to j-awn, laugh, or (as Lamotte has observed) to bite any substance which is rather large. (Leveille, Nouvcllc Doctrine Chir. t. ii. p. 54.) There have been persons, who could scared}- ever laugh heartily, without thoir lower jaws being luxated. But, of all the causes of this occurrence, yawning alone, even without the combination of any external force, is by far the most common. When the jaw is depressed, if the muscles con- tract, the anterior fibres of the massetor tend to bring the condyles under the zygoma. The exter- nal pterygoid muscle will also contribute to pro- duce the same effect.