302 BELLADONNA After the outer corners of this bandage have been tied under the chin; after the inner corners have been drawn out and carried round the occiput; and after the border has been turned back and pinned ; the doubling of the handkerchief over each side of the neck hangs in a loose, awkward manner. It remains, then-fore, to pin this part of the handker- chief up above the ear, as neatly as can be contrived. (See J. Ball's Principles.) The grand couvre-chef has certainly nothing to recommend it, either in point of utility or elegance. A common nightcap must always be infinitely preferable to it. In the event, however, of a cap not being at hand, it is proper that the surgeon should know what contrivances may be substituted to fulfil the objects in view. Having, in numerous articles of this Dic- tionary, noticed the mode of applying bandages in particular cases, and allotted a few separate de- scriptions for such bandages as are not here mentioned, but which are often spoken of in books, we shall conclude for the present with referring the reader for further information to Recs's CydopcEdia ; John BeWs Principles of Surgery, vol. i.; Diet, des Sciences Med. art. Bandage. Galen and Vidus Vidius are reckoned the best of the old writers on the subject; M. Sue, Thillaye, Heister, Juville, Lombard, Bernstein, J. Bell, and Cutler, of the modern ones. The Treatise of the latter is entitled The Surgeons Practical Guide in Dressing and in the Methodic Application of Bandages, ]2mo. Lond. 1834. Illustrated by numerous engravings. The mode of applying the starched bandage will be con- sidered in the article Fracture. BARK, PERUVIAN. (See Cinchona.) BELL.-^iDONNA. (Atropa Belladonna, Deadly Nightshade.) A powerful sedative and narcotic. The leaves were first used externally for discussing scirrhous swellings, and they have been subse- quently given internally, in scirrhous and cancerous diseases, amaurosis, &c. Five grains of them dried are reckoned a powerful dose ; one is enough to begin with. At present, the extract, in doses of half a grain, gradually increased to three, is more commonly prescribed. [No reliance is now placed in this drug for the dispersion of scirrhous tumors. If employed at all, it is solely for the purpose of relieving pain by its sedative influence.] It is said that the recent leaves powdered, and made into an ointment with an equal weight of lard, more eff^ectuallv prevent priapism, and relieve chordee, when rubbed on the penis, than any other application. (Paris's Pharmacologia, vol. u. p. 110, ed. 5.) In neuralgia of the testicle, breast, and other parts, the use of the extract of belladonna, in the form of a plaister is well known. From the power which belladonna is known to possess, of lowering the action of the whole arterial system, it seems to be a fit medicine in many surgical cases, where that object is desirable, particularly in examples of aneuri.sni. An ointment, composed of one drachm of the extract, and seven drachms of lard, and rubbed on the perineum, affords great relief in haBmorrhoids, and chordee. (See A. T. Thomson's Mat. Med. ^c p. 433, ed. 2.) It may also be applied directly on the tumors, or the induration itself. Belladonna has the power of producing a dilata- tion of the pupil, when applied to the eyebrow and eyelids. The late Mr. Saunders, a little while be- fore undertaking the operation for congenital ca- taract, was accustomed to introduce some dissolved extract of belladonna between the eyelids, or rub the eyebrow and skin about the eye freely with the same application. The consequence was, that, if there were no adhesions of the iris to other parts, a full dilatation of the pupil was produced in less than an hour, and the whole of the ca- taract was distinctly brought into view. This was unquestionably a considerable improvement in practice, as the iris was kept out of danger, and the operation materially facilitated. I allude here more particularly to Mr. Saunders's own method, in which he introduced the needle through the cornea, in front of the iris, and then conveyed it to the cataract through the enlarged pupil. Bella- donna was also externally applied by Mr. Saunders, after the operation, with the view of preventing the edge of the iris from becoming adherent to the edges of the torn capsule. The influence of belladonna on the iris led also Professor Reimarus to propose its use for facilitating the extraction of the cataract. In iritis, the same plan is an important part of the treatment. It must, however, be admitted, that the iris, when much altered by inflammation, is not affected by belladonna ; but, even under such circumstances, its use is not attended with any disadvantage. But it is not from its effects on the pupil alone, that the extract of belladonna should be applied. Very decided relief is ob- tained from its application in cases where there is a deep-seated pain, extending from the eyeball to the temple, and especially in rheumatic inflamma- tion. It may be used as recommended by Beer, in the form of ointment, rubbed in upon the temple (half a drachm of the extract, with an equal quantity of mercurial ointment every night), or the extract alone, softened with water and daubed over the lids and brow, and kept moist for one or two hours, with a light fold of old linen, wetted every ten minutes, may be preferred. (See^ucoi in Trans, of Assoc. of Physicians of Coll. Ireland, vol. v. p. 476.) Whenever the state of the eye, behind the pupil, requires to be minutely examined, the plan of dilating this aperture by means of belladonna, very materially facilitates the examin- ation. Stramonium is found to have the same eftoct upon the iris as belladonna. Some experiments, m which this fact is clearly proved, were detailed many years ago, by a namesake of my own in the United States. (See A Diss, on the Properties and Ejects of the Datura Stramonium, 4-c. iy Samuel Cooper, Philadelphia, 1797. C. Himly, De la Pamlyste de riris par une application locale de Jusquiame. §;c. •2nd ed. 12mo. Altoiia, 1805. J. Bailey, Obs. relative to tlie use of Belladonna in painfiU disorders of the Head and Face, 8vo. Lond. 1818.) [Belladonna causes dilatation of the pupil by pa- ralysing the ciliary nerves, which supply the mus- cular fibres of the iris. This effect is produced both when it is taken internally and when it is used as a local application. In the former c.ise, he poison is absorbed into the blood, and reaches he ciliary nerves through the central organ of the nervous system, both eyes being influenced alike. in the latter case, it acts upon these nerves by direct imbibition, the paralysing i"fl"«"^f tirely a local one, and the pupil of the othei ejo is unaffected. (See Muller's Physiology, translated by Baly, vol. i. p. 630.)