343 BONES, EXCISION OP z 4 long abductor, whicU is inserted into the metacar- pal bone, and then carries tho knife completely through the joint. He now tries to dislocate the bone outwards, and to pass the Icnife along its inner side, so as to efYect its total detachment from the muscles. Lastlj', the articulation with the first phalanx is opened by cutting in succession the internal and external lateral, and the anterior, ligaments. The radial artery may be avoided; but, were it wounded, the application of a ligature to it would be attended with no difficulty. The wound is to be brought together, and the thumb supported in its natural position with soft pads placed in the palm. (See Malyaigiie, op. cit.) Excision of the anterior portion of the first metatarsal bone, seems to M. Blandin advantageous, because, when the rest of it can be saved, tlie foot remains with a more solid support. A flap is formed at the inner side of the bone, with the base backward. The bone is exposed to the point where it is in- tended to divide it; sawn perpendicularly to its axis; then detached from ils connections, from behind forwards ; and finally disarticulated from the phalanx. With respect to the phalanges of the other four toes, amputation is commonly pre- ferred to excision of them: and so it is to excision of the heads of their metatarsal bones. {Mal- (jaigne, op. cit. p. 242.) Although, the excision of tlie metacarpal hone of the indem and tittle fingers may easily be performed by cutting along the outer margin of it, M. Malgaigne is probably correct in stating, that such an operation, in consequence of the subsequent shortening of the finger, would leave after it as much deformity as amputation would produce, and even greater weakness of the hand. This observation is not applicable, however, to the excision of the metacarpal bones of the viiddle and ring fingers, which will still retain their connection with the contiguous ones, and the strength of the hand be preserved. An incision is made along the dorsal aspect of the bone, by the side of the ex- tensor tendon, which should not on any account be divided, and the disarticulation is to be begun at the knuckle. (See Malgaigne, Man. de Med. Oper. p. 233.) [It is desirable to avoid opening the carpo-nietacarpal joints of the fingers as they generally communicate with other synovial sur- faces. When, therefore, the entire disease can be removed by cutting through the metacarpal bone close to the joint, this latter operation should be preferred. The metacarpal bone having been com- pletely exposed and the soft parts detached from it, the cutting pliers should be used to divide the bor.e; it should then be disarticulated at its pha- langean extremity.] The removal of dead, or softened and carious portions of the carpal and tarsal bones, Mr. Lis- ton admits, is sometimes successful; but opera- tive interference with these, or with more extensive nnd formidable articulations, is not advisable, unless the soft parts be not largely involved, and the general health tolerably good. If the ligaments, bursa;, and cellular tissue arc much affected, Mr. Liston considers the chance of the discharge ceasing, and of the return of health, entirely hopeless. Amputation above the diseased parts will still be indispensable; and, in conse- quence of tho more reduced and deranged state of the constitution, this second operation is less likely to answer than if it had been undertaken earlier. (See Liston's Elcm. part iii. 398.) It is right to mention, however, that after necrosis of the first phalanx of the thumb, and the extraction of the fragments, M. Velpean has known the part regain its motion. If an incision were necessary for the removal of this phalanx, it should be made along the radial side of the thumb, and the metacarpal articulation, which is the looser one, being opened first, the phiilanx should then be luxated outwards, and dissected out. (See Malgaigne, Man. de Med. Oph: p. 231.) In a few cases, Mr. Liston has removed several of the tarsal and carpal bo?ies; as practised by Mr. Dunn of Scarborough (see Am- putation), in others, one, or a portion of one, with success. In one instance, the greater part of the astragalus luas taken away along with the ends of the tibia and fibula. There remained a large opening across the joint, through which a seton was passed to promote the gradual and piecemeal discharge of the remaining portions of diseased bone, The articulation could be seen through. The seton was gradually diminished, and the aperture closed. The foot was preserved, and the leg was somewhat shortened ; but the limb proved extremely useful, though the ankle retained little power of motion. Mr. Liston, as well as many other surgeons, has also trephined the os calois, and removed large portions of it. He has likewise taken away the ciiioid hone, along tvith the bone of the metatarsal bone or bones, in connection with it. In some of these cases an excellent cure followed; in others, amputation of the foot was afterwards necessary. (Vol. cit. p. 400.) Examples of the removal of ext-iiisive portions of the os calois are reported by Hey, Moreau, and M. Roux. In University College Hospital, there was a young woman, in 1835, from the outer part of whose os calcis Mr. Liston removed a considerable piece \yith a trephine. The case was a scrofulous caries. Some amendment followed ; but the caries pene- trated too far to admit of complete removal in this manner. A fine specimen of the same thing was lately put into my hands by Mr. Morton, of Uni- versity College, the part having been finally ampu- tated in the Newcastle Hospitiil. In one case, where the scaphoid Jonaof the carpus was d islocated by an inj ury, occasioned by machinery, Sir Astley Cooper successfully removed that bone! The rule proposed by him for any analogous case,' 18 to take away one, or even two, of the carpal bones, if displaced ; but, if the mischief is greater, to amputate. Excision of the luhole of the fibula with the exception of its head, was performed by M. The particulars are contained in M. i3eutni. Malgaigne's Manual. Many arteries required ligature, and nniongst them the posterior tibial. Tho external popliteal nerve was also divided As the tibia was slightly affected, the cautery was applied to It. In two months the wound was healed and in four, tho patient could bear nearly as well on this leg as on the other. I am not disposed to bestow much commenda- tion on such nn operation as the excision of the ribs notwithstanding the high nnd respectable authori- ties which may bo quoted in sanction of it, with the exception of its performance in cases where n sequestrum is nearly or entirely loose. Tho most remarkable excision of the ribs yet recorded is that performed by M. lliclierand in 1810, on a medical officer, who was afflicted with cancer of the Ihornx, The middle portion of four ribs was