856 thi3 Circumstance he sanctions tying tiie arterial tiunk above tl.e point at which the amputation is f P^^'^"™^'^- (See Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 302, <5»o.) I would ask, however, should this measure be preliminary, or ought it not ratiier to be deferred till the failure of the ligature on the face of the stump has been proved ? The performance of two severe operations, instead of one, must never be undertaken without a positive necessity. Most of the preliminary operations on the trunks of arteries, hitherto performed for the prevention of htemor- rhage during amputations, and in the removal of the upper or lower jaw, are now considered to have been unnecessary. In England, we should never amputate in parts known beforehand to be so disorganised, that ligatures would have no chance of securing the vessels on the face of the stump. When haemorrhage takes place from a large artery in one of the limbs, where the vessel can be conveniently compressed above the wound, a tourniquet, judiciously applied, never ftiils to put an immediate stop to the bleeding. Until the in- vention of this instrument, which did not take place till the latter part of the 17th century, and until It was known that a very moderate degree of well-directed pressure on an artery would stop profuse bleeding, surgery was really a very defect- ive art. No important operation could be under- taken on the extremities, without placing the patient in the most imminent peril; and many wounds were mortal, which, with the aid of these simple expedients, would not have been attended with the least danger. The first invention of the tourniquet has been claimed by different surgeons, and even different nations. But, whoever was the inventor, it was first presented to the public iu a form so exceed- ingly simple, that it seems extraordinary its inven- tion did not happen sooner. A small pad being placed on the principal artery of a limb, a band was applied over it, so as to encircle the limb twice. Then a stick was introduced between the two cir- cles of the band, which was twisted; thus the pad was made to stop the flow of blood into tiie lower part of the vessel. Although in the Armamentarium Chirurgicum of Scultetus, there is a plate of a machine invented by this author for compressing the radial artery by means of a screw, J. L. Petit is universally al- lowed to be the first who brought the tourniquet to perfection, by combining the circular band with a screw, so that the greatest pressure may operate on the principal artery. The advantages of the modern tourniquet are, that its pressure can be regulated with the utmost exactness; that it operates chiefly on the point where the pad is placed, and where the main ar- tery lies; that it does not require the aid of an assistant to keep it tense ; that it completely commands the flow of blood into a limb; that it can be relaxed or tightened in a moment; and that, when there is reason to fear a sudden renewal of hamiorrhage, it can be left slackly round the limb, and, in case of need, be tightened in an instant, its utility, however, is confined to the limbs; and, as the pressure, necessary to stop the flow of blood tnrough the principal artery, completely prevents the return of blood through the veins, iU applica- mollification. It is of use also in putting a s„d- H/EMORRHAGE. den stop to profuse haemorrhages for a time that IS, until the surgeon has put in practice some other means, the effect of which is more permanent will"l,l f «l'ser;ations will be found on the advantages and disadvantages of tourniquets in that operation. M. Dnpuvtreii sometimes employed, instead of a common'tomni- quet, what he terms a compressor, which makes pressure only on two opposite points of the limb- but, as he acknowledges, it would not be sufficient If It were necessary, as in a case of extreme de- bility, to arrest the blood in all the arteries of the limb. (See Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 386 ) The compressor is an old instrument, consistin.^ of a segment of a circle of steel, and the pressure of which IS regulated by a screw. It has often been tried in England for the cure of popliteal aneurism It IS an instrument which I think ought always to be kept ready in hospitals, where many cases present themselves, especially of secondary heemor- rhage from stumps, tiie palmar arches, &c., where its application might be of important use. Professor Kegnoli, of Pisa, in a case of aneurism, where se- condary haemorrhage took place from the femoral artery, high up the limb, and where, in conse- quence of disease, another ligature would probably liave failed, applied Dupuytren's compressor, and thus made moderate pressure on the bleeding point with complete success. (See Amputation and lOURNlQUET.) Ligature. The ancients were quite unacquainted with the use of the tourniquet; and though some of their writers have made mention of the ligature, they do not seem to have known how to make prop r use of It, nor to have possessed any other certain means of suppressing liEemorrhage from wounds fn modern times, it is easily comprehensible, that when any great operation was undertaken will e surgery was so imperfect, there was more likehhood of the patient's life being shortened than lengthened by what was attempted. Und.T these circumstances, it is not surprising that the old practitioners should have taken immense pains to invent a great many topical astringents. But now that the ligature is known to be a means which is saferand less painful than former methods no longer search need be made for specifics against hasmorihage. It may, indeed, be set down as a rule in surger)-, that whenever large arteries are wounded no styp- tic application should ever be employed; but im- mediate recourse had to the ligature, as being, when properly applied, the most simple and safe of all methods. In Older to qualify the reader to judge of the best mode of applying ligatures to arteries, I shall first explain to him their effects on these vessels, as related by Dr. Jones. This gentleman learned from Dr. J. Thomson, of Edinburgh, that in every instance in which a liffa- ture is applied around an artery, without includinc; the surrounding parts, the iiiteriial coat of the vessel is torn through by it; and that this fact had been originally noticed by Desault. Dr. Thomson even demonstrated to Dr. Jones, on a portion of artery taken from the human subject, that the in- ternal and middle coats are divided by the ligature. {Jones, p. 126.) This led Dr. Jones to make some experi- ments on the arteries of dogs and horses, tending