229 ANEURISM. year 1769, and his book was not published until the year 1772. " Does it ever happen in surgery," says Dr. Hunter, " that when an artery is opened through a vein, a connnunication, or anastomosis, is after- wards kept up between these two vessels ? It is easy to conceive this case ; and it is not long since I was consulted about one that had all the symptoms that might be expected, supposing such a thing to have actually happened, and such symptoms as otherwise must_be allowed to be very unaccountable. It arose'from bleeding; and was ol" some years' standing when I saw it, about two years ago, and I understand very little alter- ation has happened to it since that time. The veins at the bending of the arm, and especially the basalic, which was the vein that had been opened, were there prodigiously enlarged, and came gradually to their natural size, at about two inches above, and as ranch below the elbow. Wheri emptied by pressure, they filled again al- most instantaneously ; and this happened even wlien a ligature was applied tight round the fore- arm, immediately below the affected part. Both when the ligature was made tight and when it was removed they shrunk, and remained of a small size, while the finger was kept tight upon the artery, at the part where the vein had been opened in bleeding. There was a general swell- ing in the place and in the direction of the artery, which seemed larger and beat stronger than what is natural ; and there was a tremulous jarring motion in the vein, which was strongest at the part which had been punctured, and became insensible at some distance, both upwards and downwards." {Med. Qbs. and Inq. vol. i.) In the second vol. of the same work, Dr. Hunter adds some further remarks :—" In the operation of bleeding, the lancet is plunged into the artery through both sides of the vein; and there will be three wounds made in these vessels, viz. two in the vein and one in the arter}', and these will be nearly opposite to one another and to the woimd in the skin. This is what all surgeons know has often happened in bleeding, and the injury done the ar- tery is commonly known by the jerking impetu- osity of the stream whilst it flows from the vein, and by the difliculty of stopping it when a suf- ficient quantity is drawn. " In the next place, we must suppose that the wound of the skin and of the adjacent or upper side of the vein heal up as usual ; but that the wound of the artery and of the adjacent, or under side of the vein, remain open (as the wound of the artery does in the spurious aneurism), and by that means the blood is thrown from the trunk of the artery directly into the trunk of the vein. Extraordinary as this supposition may appear, in reality it differs from the common spurious aneu- risms in one circumstance only ; viz. the wound remaining open in the side of the vein as well as in the side of the arter}'. But this one circum- stance will occasion a great deal of dilFerenco in the symptoms, in the tendency of the complaint, and in the proper method of treating it: upon which account the knowledge of such a case will bo of importance in surger)-. It will differ in its symptoms from the common spurious anourism, principally thus :—The vein will bo dilated, or become varicose, and it will have a pulsating jar- ring motion, on account of the stream from tho artery. It will make a hissing noise, which will be found to correspond with the pulse for the same reason. The blood of the tumor will be altoge- ther or almost entirely fluid, because kept in con- stant motion. The artery, I apprehend, will become larger in the arm and smaller at the wrist than it was in the natural state ; which will be found out by comparing the size and tho pulse of the artery, in both arms, at these different places, the reason of which I will speak of hereafter ; and the effects of ligatures, and of pressure upon the vessels above the elbow and below it will be what eveiy person may readily conceive who under- stands any thing of the nature of arteries and veins in the living body. " The natural tendency of such a complaint will be very different from that of the spurious anem'ism. The one is growing worse every hour, because of the resistance to the arterial blood, and if not remedied by surgery must at last burst. The other, in a short time, comes to a nearly per- manent state ; and, if not disturbed, produces no mischief, because there is no considerable resist- ance to the blood that is forced out of the artery. " The proper treatment must, therefore, be very different in these two cases; the spurious aneu- rism requiring chirurgical assistance, as much, perhaps, as any disease whatever ; whereas, in the other case, I presume it will be best to do nothing. " If such cases do happen, they will no doubt be found to differ among themselves in many little circumstances, and particularly in the shape, &c. of the tumefied parts. Thus the dilatation of the veins may be in one only, or in several, and may extend lower or higher in one case than in another, &c., according to the manner of branchino-, and to the state of the valves in different arms. And the dilatation of the veins may also vary, on account of the size of the artery that is wounded, and of the size of the orifice in the artery and in the vein. " Another difference in such cases will arise from the different manner in which the orifice of the^ artery may be united, or continued with the orifice of the vein. In one case, the trunk of the vein may keep close to the trunk of the artery, and the very thin stratum of areolar tissue between them niaj% by means of a little inflammation and coagulation of the blood among its filaments, as it were, solder the two orifices of these vessels together, so that there shall be nothing like a canal going from one to the other • and then the whole tumefaction will be more re- gular, and more evidently a dilatation of the veins onl3'. In other instances, the blood that rushes from the wounded artery, meeting with some difficulty of admission and passage throuMi the vein, may dilate the cellular membrane between the artery and vein into a bag, as in a connnon spurious aneurism, and so make a sort of canal between these two vessels. Tho trunk of the vein will then be removed to some distance from the trunk of the artery, and tho bag will be situ- ated chiefly upon the nmlersidc of the vein. The bag may take on an irregular form, from the areolar tissue being more loose and yielding at one iilace than at another, and from being un- eijually bound down by tho fascia of the biceps muscli-. And if the hag be very large, especially if it be of nn irregular figure, no doubt coagu- Q 3