ANEURISM Hrab, and tightened by means of a stick, with which It was twisted, a piece of pasteboard being put under the knot, in order to render the con- striction less painful. The tumor was then opened, the clotted blood extracted, and the opening in the artery detected by slackening the tourniquet. A curved needle, armed with a double ligature, was then introduced imder the femoral artery, and one of the cords was tied above, and the other below, the wound in the vessel. Then follows a curious passage, showing the operator's judgment at that time, respecting the impropriety of interposing any c3'linder of linen between the knot of the ligature and the artery, as some of the old surgeons at that time used to do, as well as a few of the moderns. " On ne mit point de peiites compresses sur le corps de Vartere au-dessus du nceud, commefont quelques-tms, parce que I'onjugea qu il etoit d'une grande consequence de Her tres- etroitement tme artcre si considerable, ce que Van rCauroit pas etc sur de faire en interposant la petite compresse" Sec. For greater security, assistants, who relieved each other in turn, kept up constant • pressure on the tied part of the vessel for twentj^- four hours. In six weeks the patient recovered, and afterwards enjoyed such good health that he went through several campaigns. (Saviard, JVou- veau Recueil d'Observations CIdr. Obs. 63. 12mo Paris, 1702.) Now, with respect to these two cases, it merits attention, that, though Heister, Morgagni, and others,_ endeavoured to explain the success, by supposing that each of the patients in question must have had a double superficial femoral artery in the limb operated upon, both Severinus and Saviard were wise enough to avoid making any such erroneous inference themselves. At a later period, Guattani laid bare the femoral artery, as it passed under Poupart's ligament; compressed it against the ramus of the pubes, by means of gra- duated compresses, retained with a firm roller ; and thus obtained the speedy obliteration of the vessel, and cured an aneurism which had been first in- judiciously opened. {De Externis Aneurysmatihtis Hist. 15, 4to. Romte, 1772.) In the same book is given the case of an inguinal aneurism, which, when it had continued three months, and become equal in size to a large fist, was attacked with gangrene, whereby the aneurismal sac was quickly destroyed, and the femoral artery obliterated for a considerable extent from the crural arch down- wards. The sloughs were thrown off, however, and the ulcer hfid in a great measure healed when the patient fell a victim to debility. {Hist. 17.) Here it is to be remarked, that, during the five weeks this man lived after the obliteration of the femoral artery, above the origin of the profunda, not only the circulation and life of the whole limb were preserved, but the auxiliary arteries, coining from within the pelvis, proved capable of limiting the progress of the mortification of the parts round the aneurism, and of commencing the healing pro- cess in a manner which raised great hopes of a cure. A similar fact is also recorded by Dr. Clarke. (Duncan''s Med. Comment, vol. iii.) These, and other cases which might be quoted furnished ample proof of the efficiency of the anastomosing vessels to support the limb, though the femoral artery had been tied, or obliterated in a very high situation. Besides these facts, surgeons derived every en- couragement to attempt the cure of popliteal aneu- rism, by the ligature of the artery above the tumor from the elucidations given by Winslow and Haller' concerning the numberless inosculations which exist between the upper and lower articular ar- teries. Haller even drew the conclusion, that, if the course of the blood were intercepted iu the popliteal artery, between the origins of the two orders of articular branches, such anastomoses would sufiice for carrying on the circulation in the leg. And at length Heister, weighing the anatomical observations of Winslow and Haller' and the facts recorded by Severinus and Saviard first proposed applying to popliteal aneurisms an operation, which, with the exception of those two cases, had until his time been restricted chiefly to aneurisms of the brachial artery. {Bis. de Genuuni Structurd eorumque Morbis. Dis. Chir. Halleri t, iv.) It was in Italy that the earliest operations were undertaken for the cure of popliteal aneurisms, by Guattani, or rather by a German surgeon, named Keysler, as would appear from a letter written by Testa to Cotunni. (See Pelletan, Clinique adr. t. i.) The practice of tying arteries for the cure of aneiirism was also adopted in Italy by Molinelli and Mazotti, at a period, when, in other countries, amputation was the measure to which the patient was always subjected. The success obtained by these surgeons, soon led others to imitate them, and by degrees the practice of tying the femoral artei-y became common both in cases of aneurism and wounds; and from the observations of Heister {Haller, Disp. Chir. t. v.), Acrell {Murray, de Aneurysm. Femoris), Leslie {Ediii. Med. Com- me7it.), Hamilton {B. Ball's Surgery, vol. i.), Bur- schall (Med. Obs.andlnq. vol.iii.), Leber {Dchaen, Ratio Medendi, t. vii.), and Jussy {Ancien Jour/i, de Med. t. xliii.), it was proved, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that the circulation might continue in the limb after the obliteration of the femoral ar- tery, whether such obliteration were effected by direct pressure or the ligature. The exact period when the first operation of laying open the tum.or and tying the popliteal artery was performed in England, is not, as far as I know, particularly specified. However, judging from the observations made on this practice in the writings of Pott {Remarks on Falsy, ^-c. 8vo. Lend. 1779), of Wilnier {Cases and Remarks in Surgery, 8vo. Lond. 1779), of Kirkland {Tliougliis on Amputation, 8vo. Lond. 1780), and of others, it is clear that this method of treatment had been often done in this country earlier than the dates of those works, and, as would appear, with little or no success. The earliest attempt of this kind in France was made by Chopart in 1781 {Roiix Nouveaux Elcmcns de Med. Operatoirc, t. i. p. 556), about live and twenty years after the examples set by Guattani in Italy; but Chopart failed in his endeavours to repress the bleeding from the exposed cavity of the tumor, and was therefore obliged to amputate the limb. Subsequently to this attempt, the operation was undertaken by Pelletan in two instances, the terminations of which were successful: consequently, this surgeon may be regarded as entitled to the honour of having proved to his countrymen the possibilit3' of curing the popliteal aneurism by laying open the tumor, and securing the artery in the ham. The severity and^frequent ill success of this