■^3'^ CATARACT. made on the upper lid, to stimulate contraction of the pupil. It was formerly the custom to test the sight of • the patient, by holding a goblet of water before his eye, and desiring him to point out the water line, but it is far safer not to risk disturbance of the section by such a proceeding. The patient may be directed to gently open the eye, and if the flap is properly adjusted, the pupil circular, and the iris in its proper place, the eye should be finally closed. In operating on the left eye, the surgeon, if ambidextrous, will operate with his left hand, and the proceedings will in no wise diifer from those already described. If, how- ever, he prefer to use his right hand, he' must place himself before the patient, who is to be seated in a low chair, and the assistant must be behind the patient, whose head he must firmly support. The assistant must also take charge of the upper lid, and must be particularly cautioned not to make undue pressure on the globe. It is a great advantage to an operator to have an as- sistant who thoroughly nnderstands his work, and is acquainted with every step of the proceedings. The operator is now to support his hand npon the patient's cheek, and taking charge of the lower lid with his left hand, he proceeds to make the section, either superior or inferior, as he prefers. The most common accident during the perform- ance of extraction, is premature escape of the aqueous humour. This will occur if the knife be in the slightest degree retracted after the cornea has been punctured ; if the eye be allowed to escape from it, or if the blade be not perfectly true ; and it may be remarked that comparatively few knives possess this valuable quality. Should this accident happen when but a small aperture has been made, it is best to withdraw the instru- ment and defer the operation, for there will be great risk of inflicting extensive injury to the iris if the knife be pushed on ; but if. the anterior chamber has been crossed before the accident happens, and the iris then falls before the edge of the knife, the operator should pause, and with the point of his finger gently rub the cornea; this frequently causes the iris to contract, when the knife may be cautiously pushed on and the section completed. If a small piece of the edge of the pupil be shaved oif, it is not a matter of conse- quence; but if the edge of the knife remain covered with the iris, it is better to withdraw the knife and complete the operation with the blunt-pointed knife. This has a small and narrow blade, which is to be passed through the wound and in front of the iris, and then the edge being brought to bear upon the cornea, that is to be divided with a gentle sawing motion in the direction previously intended. It is better to have the incision rather too free, than so small that a good deal of force is required to press out the cataract, for not only does it then escape in a broken condition, leaving fragments hphind, but there is considerable risk of the vitreous iiuinour escaping. A very common occurrence, especially with young operators, is for tlie knife to pass out before it reaches the proper point for ci)untcr-|nincturc, wherobj' the size of the section is much diminished; when this is the case, the wound m.ay be eiilarijcd with the blunt-pointed knife, in tlio nianneralrendy described : if on making pressure, the lens docs not pass through the pupil, tlic section had better be enlarged, rather than undue force applied to squeeze it out. If the section be so small as not to admit of the passage of the lens, and too great pressure be used, the hyaloid may give way, and so much vitreous flow out as to cause the cataract to sink behind the iris ; this is especially likely to happen if there be fluid vitreous humour. If the lens be out of sight, the eye should be closed, and no attempt made to fish it out, for the pupil is clear, and the case may do well. If it be .only partially sunk, the section should be carefully enlarged, and then the lens may perhaps be lifted out with the sharp hook intended for the purpose; but the most gentle management is necessary. A rare accident after extraction is hfemorrhawe from the choroidal vessels. This usually takes place, either during the performance of the operation, or within a few hours afterwards. In a patient of the writer's, however, profuse hfemorrhage took place ten days after the performance of the operation. It was in a feeble old woman, and the section had not united ; but with this exception, there had been nothing unusual in the progress of the case, nor anything to account for the sudden burst of blood which unexpectedly poured from the eye whilst the patient lay quietly in bed. The haemorrhage indicates a diseased condition of the blood vessels, and is from this circumstance some- tim.es difficult to stop. Ice may be applied to the lid, and a compress bound on pretty firmly; the globe is of course filled with blood, and "either suppurates or atrophies. A valuable article on the accidents which may arise during or after the performance of extraction, is to be found in the fourth volume of the Archives d'Ophthalmologie (De POpcraiion dc la Caiaracla par Keraiotomie superieiire, 4-0.). It is founded on observations deduced from 780 cases operated on by Dr. Sichel, and is well worthy of perusal. After the eyelids have been finally closed, they may be covered with strips of soft rag, kept in place by a bandage passed round the head ; undue pressure upon the eye is to be avoided, and the lids are to be kept perfectly quiet. The patient should be placed in bed on his back, and it is proper to secure the hands with tapes at night, to obviate the chance of the ej-e being rubbed or struck, Oculists have differed as to the time for opening the ej'e after extraction, but the modem practice is not to do this before the fifth daj': it is highly important that the section should be firmly united before the lid is raised, and this is not to be ex- pected before the fifth da)'. It is better to be late than too early in looking at the eye. If, 011 ex- amining the eye cautiouslj', all be well, the patient may assume a shade, but must be warned not to be too eager to use the eye: for some days very subdued light is necessarj-, and it is higlily im- portant to avoid flashes of light entering the room by suddenly drawing up the blind or opening the door. From ten days to a fortnight may be con- sidered the period in which the most favourable recovery may bo expected.] Beer saj's the eye sliould seldom be opened before the fifth or sixth day. When tliis is first ^ done, the light sliould be vcr}- modeintc, and the patient placed with liis back towards it, all un- ^' necessary lateral light being kept from the eye by the linen attaclicd to the forehead, wliile the daily tri;ils of the newly-recovered powers of the eye should be made with the utmost caution. On the