1052 1855.) Again, among the cases of hydrophobia collected by Lewis Smith, is one resulting from the bite of a lap-dog, in a neighbourhood where a rabid animal had not been known for years. This dog also bit a puppy, which went mad. Wagner (Deutsche Klinik, 26 and 27, 1856) relates a case of spontaneous rabies in a cat, which bit a dog and three men. The dog and two of the meu went mad. Cold, hunger, and ill-treatment, excessive heat, the summer time of the year, especially the latter part of July—" the dog days,"—slinking and maggotty flesli as food, denial of drink, or of sexual intercourse, have, since very early times, been commonly held to cause hydrophobia. A great mass of evidence, however, exists, which tends to disprove the direct action of these causes, although it is probable that any one of them may act as an exciting circumstance. Thus, out of 259 cases in which the date of the bite was registered (Smith and Tamhayn, loc. cit. Rudcliff'e, Lancet, 1855, p. 180 and 2bQ,i\r\d. Adams, Woclien- schriftfur Tlderheilkrankheiten, W. 32—36, 1850), thirty-two, the largest number, were observed in September; the next in October and November, each twenty-five cases; while in each of the months of January and Februarj', there were twenty-one cases. These researches agree in general result with those of M. Andry (Recherches surlaRage, 8vo. Palis, 1780), and it results from them that, since rabies occurs alike at all seasons of the year, if any sanitary regulation be enforced, it should be made to operate during the whole year. The investi- gation of the relations which hydrophobia andrabies evince to climate and country, yields results equally opposed to popularly received notions. They strik- ingly favour the opinion that rabies is an epizootic. Al ter a great outbreak in Wurtemburg, in which 242 cases were observed, there was an interval from Jul}'^, 1839, to June, 1843, during which only 3 real cases and 14 suspicious cases were noted. (Voltolini, Deutsche Klijiik, 19—21,1857.) At this time, precisely, it was prevailing in the north. From 1849 to 1855 it prevailed in Hamburg, Lanenbuig, Mecklenburg, Pomerania, Schleswig; Jutland, Westphalia, and Leipsig, with consider- able intensity. In Hamburg, for instance, 500 mud dogs were observed. In 1851-2, it broke out in the south of Europe, at Paris, Madrid, Ofen, and Pesth; and in 1854-55, in Lombardy. In 1855-56, numerous cases occurred in Augsburg, the disease soon disappearing again. {Adam, Wo- chenschi ift, loc. cit. Faber, zur Geschichte der Wulh- krankheit in Wurtemburg : Wuriemb. Corr. Blatt, 43, 44, 1857. Vjhrschrift, fur Ges. Med. xii. 2, 1858.) In the English Bills of Mortality, the first case recorded is in 1728—the bills begin in 1603 —while the word hydrophobia is not introduced until 1819. From 1728 till 1824, the deaths never exceeded four per annum; in that year they reached seven; in 1825, and 1826, there were four deaths; in ] 827, one death; l-«28,one; 1831, six; 1832, three; 1838, four; ] 834, eight; 1835, none; 1836, one; 1837, seven in the last six months; 1838, twelve; from 1838 to 1853 never more than four; in 1854, nine. From the Registrar Gene- ral's reports, it seems that in the periods from 1838 to 1842, and from 1848 to 1852, there was a gradual increase of the disease, and especially in the first period in the rural districts, whilst in the towns at this time it was but little felt. In the liigher northern latitudes, as well as in HYDROPHOBIA. the south, hydrophobia is extremely rare. Ac- cording to J. Hunter, there was not one case during forty years in Jamaica; and so also in South America, in Madeira, in Algiers, Egypt, in Tur- key, and throughout the East. Tliis observation first made as to Egypt, by Prosper Alpinus (Rer. Egyptiarum, lib. iv. cap, 8), is confirmed by Savary (Voyage en Syrie, t. i.), Baron Larrey (Memoires de Chir. Militaire, t. ii. p. 226), and by other authorities. [See Bil)l. Raisomiee, ]7oO; Van Swieten, Comment in Aphor. 1129, Portdl Journal Gen. de Mtd. t. xxx. Dr. Thomas, Prac- tice of Physic.)] In Mr. Meynell's account, which was communi- cated to him by a physician, it is asserted that the complaint never arises from hot weather, nor pu- trid provisions, nor from any cause except the bite; for however dogs have been confined, however fed, or .whatever may have been the heat of the season, the disorder never commences without a possibility of tracing it to the preceding cause, nor was it ever introduced into the kennel except by the bite of a mad dog. (See art. Dog m Rees''s Cyclopcedia.) [In addition, however, to the cases above cited, in which the spontaneous or epizootic origin of rabies is made evident, the writer is informed by Mr. Spooner (1 860) that he has seen rabies arise among some Cape dogs, confined in cages at the Zoological Society's Gardens, in London, under circumstances which rendered it impossible that they should have been bitten by any rabid animal. He has also seen a polar bear attacked with fatal rabies in the same gardens.] Dr. Gillman endeavours to prove, that the dis- ease in dogs is probably excited independently of particular climates, of putrid aliment, of defi- ciency of water, of want of perspiration, or of the worm under the tongue, to which causes it has been at diiFerent times ascribed; and he expresses his belief that it originates somewhat like tj^phus in the human subject, and is not alwaj's produced by inoculation, or by means of a bite. He thinks that it may be occasionally brought on by the con- finement of dogs, without exercise, in close and filthy kennels; and that the success of Mr. Treval- yan, as related by Dr. Bardsley, in clearing his kennel of the disease, by changing even the pave- ment, after other means of purification had failed, affords presumptive evidence in favor of the opinion; and consequently this author thinks that the method of quarantine adopted by Mr. Meynell, and recommended by Dr. Bardsley, on the supposi- tion that the disease originates exclusively from con- tagion, will not be a sufficient preventive alone; and he infers, from some facts reported by Mr. Daniel, that the poison sometimes lies dormant in dogs, four, five, and six mouths, and consequently that the period of two months is not a sufficient quaran- tine. (See Gillman s Diss, on the Bite of a Rabid Animal.) In opposition, however, to some of the senti- ments contained in the foregoing passage, it should be known that Dupuytren, Magendie, and Bres- chet have purposely kept many dogs for a long time in the most disgusting state of imcleanliness; let them even die in this condition for want of Ibod and water, or even devour each other, .T*' without exciting rabies. [Diet, des Sciences ilif* t. xlvii. p. 53.) Yet Professor Rossi, of Turin, is said to have produced this or some similar dis- ease in cats, by keeping them shut up in a rno'"- (Mtm.de I'Acad. imp. do Turin, 1805 h IW"'