589 DISLOCATION. the force operated against the anterior part of the inner bonier of the foot, so as to press it outwards. The fore part of the foot was thrown outwards and formed an obtuse angle with the cuboid and os calcis. The fifth metatarsal bone was prominent on the outer side and the internal cuneiform internally, but the four outer metatarsal bones were also dislocated up- wards, and overlapped the tarsus in this direction more than half an inch, causing an evident shorten- ing of the foot. The reduction was attempted by traction with the hands only, it being found im- possible to apply a bandage round the foot for the purpose of making extension, in consequence of the tendency of the metatarsal bones to overlap each other. Complete reduction was impossible; but the position of the foot was much improved. Ultimately M. Lacombe, by means of an apparatus specially modelled to fit the foot, was able to re- sume his avocations. Dislocation inwards.— A case of dislocation of the metatarsus intuards is recorded by Mr. Kirk of Glasgow. Here the metatarsus was driven in- wards, and formed a projection to the extent of an inch on the inside of the foot, and left a corres- ponding depression on the outside. The reduction was easily accomplished by grasping the metatarsus in one hand and the tarsus in the other, and pulling or pressing in the direction calculated to bring the articular surfaces into apposition. (See Land. Med. Gaz. 1844, vol. xxxiv. p. 440.)] [Dislocations at the Metatarso-phalan- GEAL Articulations.] [Dislocations of the great toe.—M. Malgaigne re- fers to nineteen recorded cases of dislocation of the first phalanx of the great toe from its metatarsal bone. Of these nine were simple and ten were compound dislocations. The mode in which the ac- cident was produced is mentioned in seventeen cases: in ten of these the cause was the fall of a horse, the foot of the patient being usually engaged beneath the fallen animal; four times it was produced by the wheel of a carriage; twice by a fall on the toe from an elevated position. It appears probable, also, that at the moment of the accident, the toe is usually forcibly bent backwards upon the meta- tarsal bone. In the simple dislocation the toe is, in the great majority of cases, displaced directly MjO!uar(/s; oc- casionally obliquely upwards and inwards. The head of the phalanx is prominent on the dorsal aspect of the foot, and the head of the metatarsal bone forms a projection towards the sole. The dislocation may be complete or incomplete: if com- plete, the deformity is very considerable, the bones may overlap each other, and shortening of the toe will then be observed ; if incomplete, the deformity is of course less, and shortening is impossible. The point of the toe is inclined a little outwards, and usually preserves its natural level; sometimes, how- ever, it is slightly flexed; and, on the other hand, it has sometimes been seen raised to a right angle upon the metatarsal bone. Reduction.—As in the corresponding joint of the thumb, the reduction is often attended with great difficulty, and has sometimes been found impos- sible. The difficulty, probably, arises from the same causes as in the thumb, and, as they have been fully explained in speaking of the dislocation of that part, it is not necessary here to repeat them. All the manceuvres recommended for the thumb are also applicable to the great toe. If the sesa- moid bones and the anterior ligament are the chief obstacles, as Dr. A. Laurie believed, and which opinion is corroborated by the authority of Sir A. Cooper, the plan which appears most likely to suc- ceed is that of bending the toe backwards on the metatarsal bone, and pushing the dislocated end of the phalanx forwards ; then, when its plantar edge has been made to overlap the metatarsal bone, bringing it gradually downwards towards the straight line. (See Dislocations op Thumb.) In obstinate cases, section of the extensor tendons has been tried, and section of the extensor tendons and internal lateral ligament also ; but equally without effect. Compound dislocation of tJie great toe.—When the dislocation is compound, the wound is almost invariably on the inner side of the foot. The head of the metatarsal bone projects through it, and the phalanx is dislocated upwards and outwards. The great toe is inclined outwards, across the others ; sometimes forming nearly a right angle with them. In some instances, however, the displacement has appeared to belong rather to the metatarsal bone than to the phalanx, for the toe has preserved its normal position and direction, but the head of the metatarsal bone has been inclined downwards. In one example, the displacement of the head of this bone downwards has been combined with displace- ment of its tarsal extremity upwards, so that in reality it had been subjected to a double disloca- tion. Treatment.—In six of the ten cases to which M. Malgaigne refers the dislocation was reduced, but not always without difficulty. In five of these suppuration took place on the outer side of the me- tatarsal bone : one of the patients died ; three re- covered with ankylosis, after exfoliation of the arti- cular cartilages; the fifth also recovered, but whether with ankylosis or not is not stated. The sixth case recovered, and was the only one in which the move- ments of the jomt were preserved: here the wound in the skin was enlarged, and an incision was also made along the outer side of the metatarsal bone, which gave exit to some coagulated blood. In four examples reduction was impracticable. In two of these the head of the metatarsal bone was excised : one of the patients, a cavalry soldier, was able to resume his duty; the other patient died. In the two others the entire metatarsal bone was excised, but with what object so severe a measure was resorted to it is not easy to under- stand : in both these cases the usefulness of the foot was very materially impaired. Sir A. Cooper met with a case of dislocation of theybiir otttcr toes from their metatarsal bones. Upon examination of the bottom of the foot, a consider- able projection was found at the roots of all the smaller toes, the extremity of each of the metatarsal bones being placed under the first phalanx of its corresponding toe. Several months had elapsed from the time of the accident, and at first, from the swelling of the foot, it had not been detected. No extension would have been likely to answer any purpose, and the only mode of relief was to wear a piece of hollow cork at the bottom of the inner part of the shoe, to prevent the pressure of the meta- tarsal bones upon the nerves and blood vessels. (Cm Dislocations, B. Cooper''s ed. p. 339.) An instance of dislocation of all the toes from the mtaiarsal bones haa been recorded by M. Josse