712 larly circiimsfanced. Howerer, It is not often ne- cessary to trephine tlie sternum, either to raise a depressed portion of the bone, or to discharge extravasated fluid. In the first circumstance, I believe with Sir C. Bell, that the formal applica- tion of the trephine can never be right, though the suryeon may be called upon to extract loose splinters. (See Opcraiive Surgery, vol. ii. p. '218.) Such an operation, however, may occasionally be proper when abscesses form under the sternum or the bone is affected with necrosis, and the natural separation of the diseased parts is likely to occupy a considerable time. Fractures of the sternum are more frequently produced by gunshot violence, than by any other cause, and in these cases the splinters may require extraction. At the battle of Marengo, the French general Champeux received such a wound, with which he lived nearly a month : the injury was attended with so many splinters, that when they were removed, the pulsations of the heart were visible to a considerable extent. (Leveille, vol. cil p. 214.) The ensiform cartilage, when ossified in old sub- jects, is liable to fracture. Little more can be done in such a case than to relax the abdominal muscles by raising the thorax and pelvis, and then apply a bandage to the part, for the purpose of keepijig it steady. Fractures op the PiIbs. Several of these bones are often broken together, but the first rib being protected by the clavicle, and the lower ribs being very movable, are less liable to fracture than the others. [Fractures of the ribs may be caused either by direct violence, such as a blow or fall, in which case the fracture takes place at the point where the force is applied, and the broken ends are driven i7nvards ; or by compression of the thorax, when they generally give way at the most convex point, and the fractured ends project ouiwards. Thus, if the pressure be applied in the antero-posterior di- rection, the fracture will most likely occur some- where near the centre of the bones, and if it operate laterally-, they will, in all probability, be broken in the neighbourliood of their angles. The ribs have also been known to be broken by muscular action in the efforts of coughing. Of this singular accident, the possibility of which has been called in question, M. Malguigne has collected seven recorded examples. (See Traiic des Frac- tures, p. 429.)] The case first mentioned is the most serious, for when the spicula of a fractured rib are beaten in- ward, they may lacerate the pleura, wound the lungs, and cause the dangerous train of symptoms attendant on emphysema. (See Emph^'.sesi.v.) The pointed extremity of the rib, projecting in- wards, may cause an extravasation of blood ; or, by its irritation, produce inflammation in the ciiest, A fracture, not at all displaced, or situated under thick masses of muscles, ma3'_be difficult to detect, particularly in fat subjects; and, no doubt, is fre- quently never discovered. The surgeon shoidd phice his hand on the part where tiic patient seems to experience a pricking pain in the mo- tions of respiration, or where tlie violence naa been applied. The patient should then DB requested to cough, in which action the ribs must necessarily undergo a sudden motion, by FRACTURE. which a crepitus will often be rendered perceptible All the best practitioners, however, are in the habit oi adopting the same treatment, when there IS reason to suspect a rib to be fractured, as if this were actually known to be the case by the occur- rence of a crepitus or the projection of one end of the fracture ; which, indeed, in the instances which are displaced, makes the nature of the accident sufiiciently plain. A broken rib cannot be displaced either in the direction of the diameter of the bone, or in that of us length. The ribs being fixed posteriorly to the spine, and anteriorly to the sternum, cannot be- come shortened. Nor can one of the broken pieces become higher or lower than the other, because the same muscles are attached to both fragments, and keep them at an equal distance from the neighbouring ribs. The only possible displacement is either outward or inward. In the treatment of simple fractures of the ribs, free from urgent symptoms, the principal indication is to keep the broken bones as motionless as possible. For this purpose, a broad linen roller is to be firml v put round the chest, so as to impede the motion of the ribs, and compel the patient to perform respira- tion chiefly by the ascent and descent of the diaphragm. A scapulary will prevent the bandage from slipping downwards. As a roller is apt to become slack, many surgeons, with good reason, prefer a piece of strong linen, large enough to sur- round the chest, and laced with packthread, so as to compress the ribs in the due degree. [Mr. Hilton recommends strapping the chest in such a manner as to prevent the movements of the ribs on the injured sideonl^-. For this purpose, he ap- plies strips of adhesive plaster circidarly (roimd the injured side) from the spine to a little beyond the sternum, thus leaving the opposite side of the chest free for the purposes of respiration, and also not impeding in any way the movements of the abdomen. He states that he has foimd this method give great relief in cases where the patient could not bear the usual bandage, which not unfrequently happens. (See Lancet, vol. i. 1852, p. 255.) This method has been frequently practised by the writer, who has found it produce almost perfect ease, where a bandage including the whole chest only aggravated the distress. Sometimes compression of the chest is not desir- able ; for instance, where the ribs are broken in several places, or wliere they are much driven in- wards, it would often only aggravate the mischief. Fortunately in all cases the surgeon has a safe guide in the sensations of the patient, and if the bandage increases the distress, he may be sure that it is doing mischief, and should immediately remove it. If the broken rib has penetrated the lung, the circumstance is made known by the more severe dyspnoea, the expectoration of blood, and probably, emphysema of the subcutaneous areolar tissue in the neighbourhood of the fracture. This latter symptom may be considered as positive proof of the nature of the injur}"-, as it can only be occasioned by the passage of the rib through both layers of the pleura into tlie substance of the lung. (See Emphysema.)] AVhen, therefore, there is reason from these symptoms to think the lungs injured, or disposed to inflame, copious and repeated bleedings should be practised ; and as pleuritis or pneumonia is always liable to succeed such an accident, and is a most dangerous occurrence, the greatest possible