19G ANEURISM. tj'ing the vessel where It had been injured. This sensible advice was at first rejected ; and when the friends at last consented, the operation was too late, as, while preparation was making for it, the tumor burst, and the patient expired in a few moments. Theden also mentions an instance, in which the gluteal artery was wounded in the dilatation of a gunshot wound, and the patient lost his life. (See Scarpa, On Aneurism, p. 407, ed. 2.) Mr. John Bell, however, tied the gluteal artery in a case where it was wounded, and the patient was saved. Mr. Stevens, surgeon in Santa Cruz, the gen- tleman who has proved the practicableness of putting a ligature round the internal iliac artery, informs us, that one of the first surgeons in Lon- don had a patient with gluteal aneurism. The tumor was large; allowed to burst; and the person bled to death. " I sincerely trust," says he, " that the following case may be the means of preventing such an occurrence in future. Maila, a negro woman, from the Bambara country in Africa, was imported as a slave into the West Indies in the year 1790. She was purchased for the estate Enfield Green, row the property of the heirs of P. Ferrall, Esq. I saw her first in the beginning of December, 1812. She had a tumor on the left hip, over the sciatic notch. It was nearly as large as a child's head, and pulsated very strongly. She could assign no cause for the disease. It had commenced about nine months before, with slight pain in the part; and had gra- dually increased to its present size. She was now much reduced, in great misery, and ready to submit to any operation." (See Medico-Chir. Trans, vol. v. p. 425.) Mr. Stevens had tied the internal iliac on the dead body, and believed that it might be done with safety on the living. The following is the account of the operation : " On the 27th of December, 1812 (says Mr. Stevens), I tied the artery, in the presence of Dr. Lang, Dr. Van Brackle, Mr. Nelthropp, and Mr. Ford, the manager of the estate. An incision, about five inches in length, was made on the left side, in the lower and lateral part of the abdomen, parallel with the epigastric artery, and nearly half an inch on the outer side of it. The skin, the superficial fascia, and the three thin abdominal muscles, were successively divided; the peritoneum was sepa- rated from its loose connection with the iliacus internus and psoas magnus; it was then turned almost directly inwards, in a direction from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, to the division of the common iliac artery. In the cavitv, which I had now made, I felt for the m ternal iliac, insinuated the point of my forefinger behind it, and then pressed the artery betwixt my finger and thumb. Dr. Lang now felt the aneu- rism behind; the pulsation had entirely ceased, and the tumor was disappearing. I examined the vessel in the pelvis; it was health}^, and free from its neighbouring connections. I then passed a ligature behind the arteiy, and tied it about half an inch from its origin. The tumor disappeared almost immediately after the operation, and the wound healed kindly. About the end of the third week, the ligature came away, and in six weeks the woman was perfectly well," This is the first example, in which the internal iliac was tied. The operation was not attended with much difficulty or pain, and not an ounce of blood was lost. Mr. Stevens had no difficulty in avoiding the ureter, which, wlien the peritoneum was turned inwards, followed it. Had it remained over the artery, he could easily have turned it aside with his finger. (See Med. Chir. Trans. vol. V. p. 422, &c.) The woman enjoyed good health for ten years, and then died of an affection of the chest. The body was opened, and the internal iliac artery found impervious at the point where the ligature had been applied. The ischiatic artery had the appearance of a ligamentous cord, but the gluteal artery was pervious. The pelvis was then re- moved, brought from Santa Cruz, and deposited in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons in London. In the further examination of the parts, the ileo-lumbar artery was found to have arisen just above the part where the ligature had been applied, and consequently the internal iliac was per- vious from its origin to this point. The particulars of the dissection, as given by Mr. Richard Owen, are remarkably interesting. I shall only notice those circumstances which strike me as peculiarly deserving of record. An incision being made into the common iliac, and continued down to the part where the internal iliac became contracted, it was found there to have become completely oblite- rated. In the state of a ligamentous cord, the internal iliac descended towards the ischiatic notch for the space of an inch, and then suddenly re- suming its natural diameter, it again became per- vious, and so continued for the extent of half an inch ; the gluteal artery arising from the lower part of this space, a sacro-lateral vessel from about the middle, and the obturator artery from the upper part of it. The latter vessel was entirely obli- terated ; but the sacro-lateral was pervious, of the size of a crow-quill, and passed inwards to the second sacral foramen; whilst the gluteal artery received, close to its origin, two vessels, as large as the preceding, given off from the sacro-lateral artery. The ischiatic was impervious. The glu- teal artery was of its natural size. An oblong tumor of the sciatic artery was detected, three inches and a half in length, between the tuber- osity of the ischium and the great trochanter, doubtless the remains of the original disease. It was filled with dark-coloured, granular, not Ja- mellated blood. From the ischiatic notch to the tumor, the artery was completely obliterated Us texture altered, and the remains of its cavity filled with indurated and partly calcareous matter. From the lower part of the swelling, the sciatic artery proceeded down the posterior part of the thigh, and was nearly as large as the femoral. Its calibre did not, however, correspond to its apparent mag- uitude, its coats being vastly thickened. It wa^ obliterated for about the space of an i.ich below the sac, but became pervious again after receinng an anastomosing vessel from the profunda^ Mr Owen infers from several circumstances, which he specifies, that the aneurism was of '''e true kind. Amongst the things highly dcservmg notice n tins case was tlie open space maintained by the col h'ra?circulation in the trunk of the artery, b^. tween the ligature and the aneurism. (See Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xvi. p. 221. &c.) A second instance, in which the >"t«-n»l ■ tery was tied, was some time ago commun>ca ed to the^ public. The operation was P-^f""'^J,,^^ ,,.fj, ' Atkinson, of York, on """""^ ""^^"Sl" "'^^^^^^^^^^ The .following area few of the particulais. -