]8L ANEURISM. N 8 cardiac side of the sac, but as likelj' to merit the preference when the tuninr is largo, and liltely to inflame after the circulation through the sac is interrupted. This inference he makes from the fact of the immediate diminution of the swelling, which has usually followed the application of the ligature on the distal side of the aneurism. He also deems it probable that, in this method, there is less risk of hemorrhage from the part of the vessel on which the ligature is applied, than in the Hunterian operation. On the principle that it is sufficient for the cure of an aneurism, that the impetus of the blood through it be diminished, as the deposit of lamellated coagula within the sac will then increase, Mr. Wardrop urges the pro- priety of extending Brasdor's method to aneurisms of the arteria innominata; but the very interesting and valuable cases which are adduced in con- firmation of his views of these particular aneu- risms, will be more conveniently noticed in the sequel, where reference also will be made to some instances in which Brasdor's operation was prac- tised for the cure of inguinal and subclavian aneu- risms. As an admirer of the improvement of surgery, I must not quit this part of the subject, without expressing the conviction that I entertain of the service which Mr. Wardrop has rendered the profession and the public by his able and enlight- ened view of a valuable operation, which, without his exertions and example, might long have re- mained quite neglected, or briefly mentioned in the history of surgery as a dangerous proceeding, unworthy of further trials. That Brasdor's operation must sometimes fail, and particularly that it should have failed in the trials made of it by Descharaps, Sir A. Cooper, and Mr. Anthony White (see Guthrie, On Dis. of Arteries, p. 90) is not surprising. All these cases were inguinal aneurisms; and it does not follow because the method will answer in carotid aneu- risms that it will answer in aneurisms in every other situation. I should say, indeed, that unless it retard 2n a ceWoj» deyree, the circulation through the sac, or bring on considerable and deep in- flammation of the parts, it will never answer in any case ; and how much the first of these occur- rences must depend upon the existence, or not, of one or more branches between the sac and the ligature, is completely obvious. It is no trivial consideration in favour of this method, that it had the approbation of the celebrated Dupuytrcn, who observes, that it is the only resource when an aneurism, situated too near the centre of the circulation, continues to incre.ise, notwithstanding debilitating treatment and cold applications. As for the operations perfonned by Deschamps and Sir Astley Cooper, he expresses his conviction that their failure was owing to the origin of some important branch between the ligature and the aneurismal sac. When, however, no branch, ca- pable of maintaining the circulation in the sac, is situated between this and the ligature, Dupuytrcn joins Wardrop, and others, in representing the pro- babilities of a ci.ire as very great. The result, he adds, may also be favourable, although a few small branches may originate near the aneurism, because the coagiiliim, which is fnrnu'd in the sac and in- ternal trunk, will he likely to extend into them. But, says he, the presence of considerable branches, such as are capable of impeding the blood in the tumor from nsMiming a solid consistence, must evidently render the operation useless. Na)', what is worse, it may accelerate the fatal progress of the disease; because, when the blood has only a narrow outlet on the distal side of the aneurism, nature will make a perpetual effort to enlarge it, and in this progress the sac will be more and more distended. {Dufxiylren, Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 592.) The example in which this eminent surgeon tried this practice on the axillary artery will be pre- sently noticed. The fact of the general failure of Brasdor's operation when any considerable vessels arise from the sac, or artery, on the cardiac side of the ligature, and the greater success that has at- tended such operations when performed for carotid aneurism than any other form of this disease, seem to me to justify the view of the principles on which this operation sometimes brings about a cure, entertained by Hodgson, Wardrop, and Dupuy- tren. I make this remark, fully aware of the suggestion of Mr. Guthrie, that the cure, so far as it goes, is affected by inflammation of the artery and sac, and not by the mere coagulation of the blood in them. (See Guthrie, On Dis. of the Ar- teries, p. 179.) He also enters into an inquiry how far the communicating of inflammation to an aneurism so near the heart as an aneurism of the innominata or lower part of the carotid, is an ad- visable proceeding. He argues, that too much inflammation kills the patient, while too little is insufficient to effect a cure. In support of his rea- soning, Mr. Guthrie takes a different view of Mr. Montgomery's case from what that gentleman him- self does ; and on the following grounds; — "An aneurismal sac, of the size described in the first part of the case, never could disappear in four months by any of the processes of nature, or after any operation performed for its cure, with which we are at present acquainted ; more particularly as the remains of the artery and vein were discoverable, although obliterated, by which I understand them to have become impervious. There never was then an aneurism of the carotid; but the aneu- rism, which was found to exist between the origin of the left carotid and the innominata, had formerly extended up the neck, so as to resemble an aneu- rism of the carotid. The operation on the carotid gave rise to inflammation, which extended first to the arch of the aorta, and to the aneurismal sac, and afterwards along the aorta to the, heart and peri- cardium, which, in the end, destroyed the patient." (See Guthrie, On Dis. of Arteries, p. 198.) What- ever may have really happened in this instance, it will not form an adequate ground for the rejection of Brasdor's operation in examples where the aneu- rism is truly one of the carotid, and a ligature cannot bo applied below the tumor. Indeed M. Lisfranc argues, that Mr. Guthrie's objection of the inflammation being likely to be propagated to the heart, has no weight at all; for, says he, " If this consequence is so greatly dreaded after the ligature is placed on the distal side of the sac, how much more so niust.it be, when Ancl's method is pursued! Besides, is the fear of such inflamma- tion, which is after all very uncertain, a sufficient I'oason for renouncing the only hope of saving the patient ? " {Lisfranc, De I'Oli/ilt'ration dcs Artercs p. 97.) In this article I have not yet mentioned the proposal made by Dr. Jameson, of Baltimore, to substitute for the ligature a scton composed of thread, or of a piece of doe-skin. The carotid of