p. 93, de la Notice des Travaux.) On tlie whole, I consider it well proved that neither long thirst, hunger, eating putrid flesh, nor filth, will occasion the disease in the canine race. At Aleppo, where the animals perish in great numbers from want of food and water, and the heat of the climate, the distemper is said to be unknown. Nor is rabies found to attack dogs and cats with particular fre quency during the copulating season, and therefore the oestrus veneris cannot be admitted to have any share in its production, as some writers have been disposed to believe. (See Did. des Sciences Med. t. xlvii. p. 55.) Although most writers believe in the reality of a poison, or specific infectious principle, in cases of rabies, the fact has been questioned, or absolutely rejected, by others. Bosquillon considered the disease always as the effect of fear, or an impression upon the imagination. This view of the matter is far from being new, and has been ably refuted by many authors, and especially by M. Desault, of Bordeaux, who remarks that horses, asses, and nmles, quihus non est intellectus, had died rabid the very year in which he wrote; and it is ob served by Dr. J. Vaughan, that an infant in the cradle is sometimes attacked, while many timor- ous children escape. [In Smith's collection of cases, nine of the patients were five years old or under, several being infants of three years and less.] Another notion has partially prevailed, that ra- bies does not depend upon any virus, but upon the continuance of an irritation in the bitten parts, affecting the whole nervous system (Fercival, J. Mease, Girard, &c.); but this doctrine confounds rabies and tetanus together, and can only apply to the symptomatic non-infectious hydrophobia from an ordinary wound or laceration. The facts in proof of the reality of a peculiar in- fectious principle in cases of rabies are too numer- ous to leave any doubt upon the subject. Twenty- three individuals were bitten one morning by a female wolf, of whom thirteen died in the course of a few months, besides several cows which had been injured by thp same animal. How could all these unfortunate persons have had similar symptoms, and especially a horror of fluids, had they not been nil under the influence of some cause besides the bites. The patients who died were bitten on the naked skin, whilst in the others who escaped in- fection the bites happened through their clothes, which no doubt intercepted the saliva, the vehicle of the virus. In the essay by Le Rous, mention is made of three persons bitten by a rabid wolf, near Autun, in July, 1781, and notwithstanding mer- curial frictions, they all died of hydrophobia. Of ten other individuals bitten by a wolf, nine died rabid. _ {Rey, Mem. de la Soc. Rayalc de Mid. p. 147.) Twenty-four persona were injured in the same manner, near Ruchelle, and eighteen of them perished. {Andry, RecUerches sur la Rage, ed. S, p. 1.96.) On the 27th January, 1780, fifteen individuals were bitten by a mad "dog, and were attended at Seniis by the commissioners of the French Royal Society of Physic. Ten had received the bites on the naked flesh, and five through their clothes. Of the first ten only five lost ilieir lives, three of them dying of decided rabies between the 27th of February and the 3rd of April, and the ether two between the 29tli of February and the IBth of March. Unless the opinion be Jidopted that the disease is caused by an HYDROPHOBIA; 1053 infectious principle, a sort of inoculation, it would be impossible rationally to explain the cause of so niany deaths from the bites of rabid animals. If the idea that rabies originates from fear, or nervous irritation, were true, how could we account for there being such a difference between the usual consequences of the bite of a healthy dog, and those of the bite of one afflicted with rabies? Plealthy dogs are incessantly quarrelling and biting each other in the streets, yet their wounds are not fol- lowed by rabies; and, as a modern author remarks, if hydrophobia were referrible to nervous irritation derived from the wounded part, how does it hap- pen that amongst the thousands of wounded after a great battle hydrophobia is not seen instead of tetanus? {Diet, des Sciences Med. t. xlvii. p. 61.) But^ if it were yet possible to entertain a doubt of an infectious principle in hydrophobia, this possi- bility would be removed by the reflection, that the disease majr be communicated to healthy animals by inoculating them with the saliva of certain other rabid animals. In fact, as I have stated, the bites of such animals are, in every point of view, only an inoculation, and the same remark may be extended to the numerous instances on record, in which the disease arose in the human subject as a consequence of a rabid dog or cat (not suspected to be in this state at the time) having been played with, fondled, or suffered to lick the naked skin, in which there was at the moment some slight scratch entirely overlooked. Many of the ancient writers not only believed in the hydrophobic virus, or infectious principle, but even in its dilfusion through the blood, flesh,' and secretions in general; and this hypothesis was professed by Boerhaave, Van Swieten, Sauvages, F. Hoffman, &c.; but in proportion as the humoral pathology lost ground, the foregoing idea was abandoned, and the opinion adopted that the in- fection is confined to the saliva, and wounded part, in which it has been inserted. ' The tales of some old autliors would lead one to think, that hydrophobia may be communicated by eating the flesh of a rabid animal. (Fernetius, De Obs. Rer. Caus. ei Morb. Epidem. lib. ii. cap. 14. Schenckijts, Mangetus, 4-c.) But respecting these accounts it is remarked that they are not entitled to much confidence; for it is certain that rabies never begins, as is stated with regard to some of the cases in question, a few hours after the appli- cation of its cause, and its early stage is never chnracterised by any fury or disposition to bite And, besides, how can such relations be reconciled with the practice of the ancients, who, according to Pliny, employed the liver of the mad dog or wolf as a remedy ? Palmarius also fed his patients for three days with the dried blood of the rabid animal. {Mem. de la Soc de Med. p. 136 et le no m.) The flesh of a bullock which had Lk^cu bi ten by a mad dog, and afterwards died rabid was sold to the inhabitants of Medolii, near Mantua yet none of them were attacked with hydrophobia [Andn/, Rechcrches sur la Raqc, c^-c. p. 30 ) Dr ie Camus informed Larrey thiit lie had eaten the flesh of animals which had died rabid, but he suffered no inconvenience from tins experiment- and it is stated in the letter of Dr. L. Valentin that certain negroes in the United States of America had no illness from eating the flesh of pigs which had died of rabies. {Jour, de Mid t. XXX. p. 417.) As for the question whether the"