FRACTURE. 733 rmobility of the fragments/oi- even a crepitus, may be distinniiished in a thin subject, if, when he is lying horizontally, with his thighs and legs bent, .and his head and chest elevated, the projecting ,part of the os innominatum be taken hold of, and ;an attempt be made to move the fragments in opposite directions. When the fracture is of a part of the os inno- rminatum very deeply placed, and is limited to a ■jsingle point of the os pubis, or ischium, so that no detached movable fragment has been produced, the exact nature of the case can rarely be made out with certainty, before the patient's death, and : the dissection of the parts. Fractures of the ossa innorainata are accom- panied with serious danger. When the fragments . ai'e displaced, and do not admit of being rectified again, the disorder arising from this cause may . have fatal consequences. And, as Boyer observes, even when such displacement does not exist, these ; fractures are not the less to be apprehended, on : account- of the injury which the spinal marrow and I the nerves, vessels, muscles, and viscera within the I pelvis are likely to have sustained. These com- ; plicatiims, which are exceedingly frequent, may , prove directly fatal, or destroy the patient at a period more or less remote from the time of : the accident. One terrible accident of this kind, ■ which happened close to my house at Shepperton, ; proved fatal in half an hour. When the pelvic viscera and urethra have es- caped injury, a cure of the fracture may be effected by means of rest; a position in which all the chief muscles attached to the pelvis are rela.xed ; and a roller or T bandage. (^Boyer, Mai. Chir. t. iii. p. 156.) Or the patient may be placed on a double in- i clined bed; a broad leather bandage may be passed round the pelvis, and buckled firmly in front of it, and the feet secured to the foot-board. {Ernie.) The grand indication is to obviate the consequences of inflammation of the parts within the pelvis, and even of the peritoneum and abdominal viscera, by copious and repeated blood-letting. Any com- plaints respecting the evacuation of the urine and feces must also receive immediate attention. When there is great contusion, and th^ bones are badly broken, the patient cannot move nor go to stool without suffering the most excruciating pain. To aifyrd some assistance in such circumstiinces. Boyer, in a particular case, passed a pit'ce of strong girth web under the pelvis, and collecting the cor- ners into one, fastened them to a pulley suspended from the top of tin; bed. This enabled the patient to raise himself witli very little effort, so that a flat vessel could be placed under him. In those and other cases, particularly compound fractures and paralytic .-iffections from diseased vertcbrie, tlie use of a bed constructed on the principles sug- guosted by the late Sir James Earle, is of great ser- vice. (See Ohs. on Fractures nf the Lotuer Limlis; lo which is ac/Jcl, an Account nf a Coidrivance to administer Cleatiimosaand Comfort to llie bed ridden. 11107.) Mr. Earle has also exerted his mechaniciil ingenuity with great success in the invention of a bed, admirably well calculated for the treat- ment of fractures, and otlier cases,.in which it is an object of importance to enable the patient to empty the bowels, without changing his position. Sometimes, notwithstanding the rigorous adop- tion of antiphlogistic measures, abscesses cannot be prevented from forming in the pelvis, particu- larly when there are detached splinters driven inwards. These collections of matter should be opened as soon as a distinct fluctuation can be felt. The splinters may wound the urethra or bladder, and cause an extravasation of lU'ine. Desault extracted a splinter, which had had this effect, from the bottom of a wound made for the discharge of the effused urine. In these cases a catheter should be employed without delay, and kept introduced in order to prevent the urine from collecting in the bladder, and afterwards insinuating itself into the cellular tissue of the pelvis, or even into the cavity of the abdomen. {Chopaii.) lu University College Museum is a specimen of a fracture of the pelvis, which runs through the rami of the ischium and os pubis. The injury caused retention of urine and laceration of the urethra by one of the fragments, followed by fatal extravasation of urine. An interesting case of fracture of the ossa innominata, attended with rup- ture of the bladder, and followed by fatal peri- tonitis, has been recorded by Cloquet. {Nouveau Journ. de Midecine, Mars 1820). The ossa pubis were forced half an inch from each other. The horizontal branch of the os pubis, and the ascend- ing ramus of the ischium, were broken ; the sacrum was dislocated from the ossa ilii, and driven forwards within the cavity of the pelvis. Tlie right sacro-iliac symphysis was broken only at its fore part, and its bones still retained their connec- tion. Vast quantities of blood were found extra- vasated in the lumbar region and about the pudenda. As soon as the abdomen was opened, three pints of a yellowish fluid, having a urinary smell, immediately gushed out. In this case catheters of various sizes were introduced, even a syringe adapted to them was used, but nothing could be thus drawn off but a few drops of blood. [The bottom of the acetabulum may be fractured, and the head of the thigh bone driven into the cavity of the pelvis. Sir A. Cooper mentions a case of this kind, the symptoms of which are stated to have resembled those of a dislocation into the sciatic notch. The patient died four days afterwards. {On Dislocation, c^-c. p. 114.) In three or four examples, Dnpuytren found the acetabulum fractured and forced inwards by the head of the femur, by a fall on the feet or knees. In the most renuirkable of these cases, the un- injured head of the thigh bone had passed entirely into the pelvis ; and the nock, which was free from fracture, was so firmly wedged in the opening, that the reduction of this new species of dislocation was exceedingly diflicult, even in the dead sub- ject. In children, force, directed against the bottom of the acetabulum, may di.sjoin the pieces of the OS iniiominatnni combining to form it. (See Dupny- trcn, Clin. Chir. t. ii.)). 110.) Mr. C. II. Mooro has recorded a remarkable case of injury of the pelvis ill which the acetabulum of the left side had been broken into three pieces, corresponding with the prinuiry divisions of the bone, and the head of the femur had passed into the pelvic cavity. There was also fracture of the rami of the pubes and ischium on the opposite side. This patient lived for several years and was able to walk without any very serious lameness. It was found after death that the pelvis had become greatly distorted but no union had taken jplace, though there was