lES OF THE, 883 HEAD, INJUH 3 L 2 matter when tlie bone is elevated. Bat nature often accomplislies tlie cure in a very simple manner; tlius, small openings are formed tbrougii the bone by the granulations underneath, or at the margin of the necrosed bone, and the matter gradually oozes through, or is forced up by the heaving motion of the brain. The surgeon should now, from time to time, insinuate the flat end of a probe, and endea- vour to elevate the bone, the parts being kept con- tinually moistened with wet lint lightly laid over : soon the bone will become gradually loosened, and there will be no difficulty in raising it. The dead bone, however, is sometimes firmly fixed in position, as if held in silit by atmospheric pressure, so that considerable force is required to detach it ; the force should be so directed as not to risk injury to the parts beneath : a small screw attached to the end of an ordinary probe, may be carefully introduced into the dead bone, and it may be thus readily elevated, a contrivance adopted by Liston in a case of this description. If the bone cannot be raised, it must be at once per- forated by the trephine, in order to relieve the brain from the pressure of matter beneath it. Suppuration is seldom limited to the upper surface of the dura mater; it generally extends far deeper than this, and the arachnoid cavity, the meshes of the pia mater, and the cerebral hemisphere in many cases are the seat of suppuration. The symptoms mentioned by Pott, whose remarks have been quoted in extenso, are really not those of sup- puration of tlie dura mater; they indicate, as it is shown from the writings of other surgeons which have been alluded to, a disease of a far more for- midable character, and which the trephine is by no means calculated to rectify. Arachnitis is indeed the prominent feature in these cases, and it is not difficult to assign a proper cause for this : in fact, there are two causes in operation at the same time in many of these cases : first, inflammation from the irritation of the dead bone, and this is common enough ; and, secondlj^, pyaemia, which may arise during the suppurative process, and thus give rise to fatal arachnitis, ter- minating in suppuration in the cavity of the mem- brane. In suppuration resulting from the latter cause, no advantage can be expected from the tre- pliine, and the danger is often materially enhanced by the coexistence of purulent deposits in the lungs and liver, or inflammation of the pleura; or peritoneum. In corroboration of the opinion as to the inutility of trephining, the cases adduced by Mr..Hewott may be referred to. These cases tend to prove that, notwithstanding they were accompanied by general pytcmia, the damaged bone and its consequent irritative eft'ects were the primary cause of the subsequent fatal mischief. In all Hewetl's cases, five in number, pus or diseased dura mater, was discovered under the denuded bone. In three, pus extended along the course of the corresponding middle meningeal artery; in all pus or sero-purulent fluid was found in the arachnoid cavity on the corresponding side ; in two, pus was found in the superior longitudinal sinus; in three, the lungs were infected with pus. Certainly the most serious cases are those in which symptoms of pressure, as hemiplegia and coma, are combined with signs of meningeal and cerebral inflammation, and wliicli frequently coexist with abscess in the brain. In these cases, and they are such as frequently come under ob- servation in our large metropolitan hospitals, the operation of trephining is generally had recourse to to relieve the brain from pressure; but the pres- sure is really not the worst feature in the disease. Although the operation is seldom attended with any beneficial result, it would be unwise to discard it, for no harm can possibly arise from perforating a bone already dead. Hewett mentions eight cases collected from the experience of the surgeons of St. George's Hospital, illustrating this practical point ; in all, symptoms of pressure coexisted-with those of cerebral inflammation and effusion into the arachnoid; in all, the operation was performed with no relief to the symptoms; but no harm in any instance resulted from the use of the trephine. This collection of cases is valuable also, as de- monstrating a most serious complication of patho- logical conditions revealed after death, as suppura- tion in the diploe, matter and lymph on the dura mater, sero-purulent fluid in the arachnoid cavity and sub-arachnoid cellular tissue; pus in the sinuses of the dura mater, secondary deposits in the lungs, liver, &c.; thus showing a deep-rooted pyaemia, over which no treatment whatever appeared to have had the slightest influence. Yet in all these cases, wherever pressure existed, the seat of pressure was indicated by the hemiplegia on the side opposite to that where the effusion took place. This circumstance is important, as leading to the site where the trephine should be applied, and in this very important respect it forms a strong con- trast to cases mentioned by Pott. So also the seat of the purulent efi'usion on the dura mater corre- sponded in all with the disease of the bone. When the abscess in the arachnoid cavity is circumscribed, the pus is usually similar to that in other abscesses, and it is contained in a cavity bounded by a wall of lymph. Under these cir- cumstances the case may ultimately do well. Ilewett quotes a case from Mr. Guthrie of this description : in this, "after the removal of bone by the trephine, the dura mater rose up in the open- ing without any pulsatory motion." Mr. Guthrie punctured this, " and a considerable quantity of matter escaped. This continued for some time; granulations formed, and the patient was eventu- ally cured." Mr. Hewett also gives an interesting case from Rou.x, in which a fistulous opening remained in the back part of the parietal bone in a young man who some years before, had a blow on tlie back of the head. This discharged a considerable quantity of matter at various times. The patient became sub- ject to attacks of drowsiness when the discharge ceased. The bones were exposed, and the trephine was applied; throe ounces of matter escaped. " Au opening, tlie size of the top of the finger, was found in the dura mater, leading into a cavity, the deep surface of which was red, and presented a cup-like depression. No untoward symptom followed the operation, and tlie patient was cured at the end of two months." {Ilewdl, loc. cit.) It is not impro- bable that the abscess was situated in the brain itself; at any rate it points out the necessity and occasional advantage of applying the trephine. When a piece of bono has been removed by the trephine, and the matter on the surface of tho dura mater has been discharged, if the latter mem- brane is pushed up so as completely to till the opening; and especially if this occurs where ua