BONES, EXCISION OF. 350 removed tlie front of the jaw, and in the same year, one half of the lower ja-sv, which he ex- articulated, and the patient lived. Mott's first operation, in which half the jaw was removed, by sawing through the chin and across the ascending branch was performed in March, 1822; the second, in which he exarticulated one half, in May, 1822, died on the evening of the fourth day. Cusack removed the left half of the jaw in 1825, first sawing through the horizontal and afterwards the ascending branch, and then exarticulating the con- dyle." He also gives interesting details of these early operations, especially of that of Mr. Anthony Wiiite, mentioned above by Mr. Cooper. Mr. White's case was one of necrosis, and not of osteo sarcoma, as supposed by Mr. Cooper. (See Trans- lation of Chelitis, hy South, p. 986.)] The method of performing the operation varies according to the extent of the disease. To expose the tumor, and allow the bone to be readily di- Tided, there must necessarily be a free division of the soft parts. Previously, also, to fixing upon the plan of operation, the extent of the disease must be correctly ascertained. (See Liston's Elem. part ii. p. 224.) When only tlie central portion of the body of the hone was to be removed, the follow- ing was Dupiiytren's plan:—the patient is seated, and his head held steady against the breast of an assistant, who is to stand behind him, and, if ne- cessar)'', make pressure on the facial arteries. The surgeon standing in front of the patient and on his right side, is to take hold of the right por- tion of the lower lip with his left hand, while an assistant takes hold of the left portion. In this way, the lip is rendered tense, and separated from the other. With a common scalpel, an incision ia then made completely through it, from above downwards to the base of the jaw. The next thing is to extend the wound through the skin and cellular tissue from this point down to the prominence of the os hyoides. Thus, two lateral flaps are produced each of which is to be dissected from the bone, as far as the extent of the disease requires, with the knife kept close to the bone, so that the fiicial arteries may not be wounded. The exact places having been ascertained to which the saw is to be applied, a tooth on each side must be extracted. The operator then taking a fine meta- carpal saw, or one of Hey's, goes behind the pa- tient, in which position the saw can be employed without any risk of its extremity being pushed against the palate. If requisite, the nose and upper lip may be protected with a piece of paste- board. But, according to my observations, the best plan is only to make a groove, or partial di- vision of the bone with the saw, and then to com- plete the section on each side with the cutting pliers, which expedites the business very consider- ably, and with no risk of injury to the contiguous parts. The bone having been cut through on each side, the surgeon takes hold of the portion about to be removed, with liis left hand, and while it is inclined forwards, he introduces a straight bistoury from btdow upwards, close be- hind it, and detaches it from the soft parts to the right and left, keeping the edge of the knife close to the bone. An assistant takes care to keep tlie tongue out of the way with a spatula, or the handle of a director. The vessels arc now se- cured, the ends of the bone approximated to one another, and the flaps of skin united with sutures ; care being taken to leave a small portion of the wound open below for the insertion of a bit of charpie, or lint, and as an outlet for the discharge, in the event of matter being formed. When a perpendicular cut will not suffice, on account of the extent of the disease, it may be converted into a crucial wound, by making an incision along the base of the jaw. If the portion of bone to be taken away were so extensive as to require tlie excision of a part of the integuments, Dupuytren made two incisions, one in each side of the lip, which were extended down, so as to meet at the 03 hyoides, and form together one in shape of a V. One danger attending the operation is the retro- version of the tongue into the phar3'nx, as soon as the attachments of the mylo hyoidei, genio hyoidei, and genio hyoglossi muscles behind the symphysis have been cut. In this state, the tongue presses the epiglottis towards the glottis, and the patient is in imminent peril of suffocation. Indeed, in one case, M. Lallemand would have lost his patient had he not instantly performed tracheotomj'. Hence, Delpech, before he divided the muscular connections of the tongue, behind the symphysis, used to seize the extremity with a double tena- culum, which was then entrusted to an assistant ; and afterwards, in applying the sutures, he passed the thread of one of them through the frsenum of the tongue and the skin together: if the inter- rupted suture were employed, or, supposing the twisted suture to be preferred, the ends of the thread, passed through the frjenura, were twisted round the pins. In one case, Delpech introduced a piece of gold wire through the apex of the tongue, and fastened it to the contiguous teeth. The \yire soon cut its way out, leaving a sufficient adhesion. In a few instances, the circumstances of the disease may be such as to make it necessary to remove only a portion of the depth of the bone. As the retroversion of the tongue, tliough not constant, is always a possible event, I concur with Malgaigne {Man. de Med. Oper. p. 255) in the prudence of attending to the ach'ice delivered o!i this subject by Delpech, or else of taking care not to cut through muscles inserted into the back of the sj'mphysis until the possible displacement of tli.- tongue has been guarded against. [On this point Chelius remarks : "At the ni> meiit when the soft parts on the inside of the ho\w are cut through, the tongue often retracts suddenly, and there is danger of choking. It is unncccss:uy to draw the tongue forward and fix it: its ro- traction depends on the contraction of the w. sterno hyoideus, after the separation of the m. mylo hyoideus and genio hyoideus, if the head be drawn back r and, therefore, if the head be bowed towards the clicst, the tongue res\nnes its proper place, and the choking ceases, as I noticed in a case in which I removed the fore part of Uie jaw, in front the masseteres, on both sides."] In the crcision of the whole oftJiehonxontal por- tion of the lower jawl>one, one plan consists in making an incision along its base, and extending it a line or two beyond its angles. A large flap is then dissected up, and turned over the face. 1 he bone is sawn on each side beyond the limits of the disease, and then detached from the soft parts which are connected with it behind, with tlie pre- cautions and according to tlie directions above particularised. of