1062 HYDROPHOBIA, and ileum inflamed, and these organs much con- tracted. (See Magendie's Journ. t. viii. p. 233.) From recent investigations made at the Veteri- nary School at Alfort, by Professor Dupuy, the following are the usual morbid appearances noticed in the dissection of dogs, horses, cows and sheep, destroyed by rabies. 1. The lungs and brain universally gorged with blood. 2. Greater or lesser marks of inflammation in the mucous membrane of the bronchi, trachea, larynx, throat, oesophagus, sto- mach, and frequently even in that of the bowels, va- gina, uterus and bladder. Yet in two dissections more recently recorded, no particular changes were dis- coverable in the pharynx and oesophagus. {Ma- gendie's Journ. t. viii. p. 331, 332.) 3. The air passages filled with frothy mucus. 4. A col- lection of serum in the ventricles of the brain, and sometimes even between the membranes covering the spinal marrow. 5. An unusual redness of the investment of the pneumogastric and trisplanchnic nerves, (See Diet, des Sciences Med, t. xlvii. p. 99.) Happily, surgery possesses one tolerably certain means of preventing hydrophobia; when it is prac- tised in time, and in a complete manner. Every reader will know that the excision of the bitten parts is the operation to which I allude. Indeed, as hydrophobia is often several months before it begins, the wounded parts should, perhaps, always be cut out, even though they are healed and some weeks have elapsed since the accident, provided no symp toms of hydrophobia have actually commenced. The operation should be done completely; for a timorous surgeon, afraid of cutting deeply enough, or of re- moving a sufficient quantity of the surrounding flesh, would be a most dangerous one for the patient. All hopes of life depend on the prevention of the disorder, for in the present state of medical know- ledge, none can rest upon the efficacy of any plan except the extirpation of the part. For this pur- pose caustics have sometimes been employed However, as their action can never be regulated with the same precision as that of the knife, and as, consequently, they may not destroy the flesh to a sufficient depth, excision should always be preferred The latter method is also the safest for another important reason, viz. the part and poison lodged in it, are removed from the body at once; but, when the cautery or caustic is used, the slough must remain undetached. Some surgeons are not content with cutting out the part, but aftef the operation, fill the wound with the liquor ammonite, or cauterise its surface for the sake of greater security, How late excision may be done with any prospect of utility, I am not prepared to say, but there are practitioners who deem excision right, even when heat, irritation, or inflammation is observed in the bitten part. (See Med. Repository, vol. iii. p. 54.) Cases present themselves in which it is even preferable to amputate the limb, than attempt to extirpate either with the knife or cautery the whole of the bitten parts; — an endeavour which could not be accomplished with any degree of cer- tainty. Thus, as Delpech observes, when the hand or foot has been deeply bitten in several places, it is obvious that it would be impossible to make caustic (or the cautery) certainly reach every part which the saliva of the rabid animal may have touched. Besides, the mischief result- ing, both from the injury and the other proceed- ings together, might be such as to afford no pro- spect of saving the limb, or at least of preserving it in a useful state. (See Pricis eUm. des Mai. Chir. t. ii. p. 133.) I have known of one or two cases in which the patients lost their lives, in con- sequence of the excision or destruction of the bitten parts not having been attempted, on account of the surgeon's reluctance to cut tendons, or wound a large artery, as one of those at the wrist In such cases, however, the fear of rendering a muscle useless, or of wounding an artery, is no jus- tification for leaving the patient exposed to a dan- ger so surely fatal as that of the hydrophobic virus, if it once affect the constitution. The artery should be exposed for a sufficient length, and secured with two ligatures, when the requisite extirpation of the parts between them may be safely per- formed. [Besides, or in place of, excision, the application of energetic caustics has been highly recommended by many experienced authorities. The whole range of destructive caustics have been employed. (See M.Boiichardat's Report to the Minister of State upon the differe7it Remedies proposed for the prevention of la Rage, Bulletin de VAcadhnie de Medecitic, vol. xviii. p. 6. Paris, 1852-3). Potassa fusa seems to receive the greatest support, as being mere destructive than either sulphuric acid {Zeidler, RusVs Mag. 1838, p. 261), butter of antimony, nitrate of silver, or gunpowder. (See Wittclce, jPreussiche Vereins-Zeitung, 29, 30, 1857.) Faber relates a case in which such local applica- tions checked the progress of disease, after it had clearly shown itself, six weeks subsequently to the bite. But we may probably safely applj- to the prophylaxis of hydrophobia that axiom of Hippo- crates, " Quae ferrum non sanat, non sanantur." Wittcke washes out the wound first with an alka- line solution, and then applies potassa fusa. After separation of the slough, Voltolini applies a can- tharidine or savin ointment to induce a free suppuration. He also indicates the use of mer- curials, strychnia and belladonna, as prophylactics, but of their capability to act in this sense there is no proof; and this is especially one of those dis- eases in which " nefaria uocent." It might in- deed be desirable to keep the wound open, and allow it to suppurate freely during, some weeks, since this nature seems to indicate; for in all those cases in which the cicatrix reopened spontaneously, the course of the disease became milder. Thus it would seem prudent to reopen artificially the wound should anything suspicious occur, were it only a marked change in colour of the cicatrix, a circumstance often preceding the outbreak of the attack. No point seems more important in the prophy- laxis than the diversion of the mind from dwelling on the subject by all possible means; never even allowing the name to be mentioned before the patient. The avoidance of excesses i« haccho et venere, exposure to cold, agitation, excitement, and the other exciting causes mentioned above, evidently indicated. Among newly suggested nif • dical prophylactics, Lustig (Preussiche Ver.-Zni- tung: N.F.I. 24) strongly .advises a decoction of that innocent plant the scrophularia nodosa, much employed in Poland, while lUinsky {Med. Zeil- Russ. 44, 1857) advises a compound of subo.vide of lead and copper. But such remedies can only prove in any sense prophylactic, if the patient could be persuaded to put great faith in tliera; and. .