EYE Nor, when inflammation lias come on, should this measure be postponed, as Beer has constantly found the disorder lessen after the lens has been taken out. Considerable wounds of the eye, attended with loss of the vitreous humor, are described by Beer as of a very serious nature ; but, they rarely take place accidentally, being almost always the conse- quence of a surgical operation. Accidental injuries of this kind are generally combined with so large or complete a discharge of the vitreous humor, and with such mischief to the organisation of the' eye that the consequence is a loss of the eyeball, or such a dwindling of it, that the fissure of the ej'elids be- comes nearly closed. According to Beer's expe- rience, injuries of the foregoing kind, arising from accident, are mostly produced by the horns of cows On the contrary, the effusion of the vitreous humor in operations upon the eye, he observes, is seldom followed by the loss of vision. See Cataract. Considerable injuries of the eyeball, complicated with a concussion, bruise, or actual wound of the retina, produce, cither gradually or immediately, an amaurosis, which is almost alwaj^s incurable.' When the concussion of the retina is less violent' and does not affect every part of this texture, it may occasion only an amaurotic weakness of sight. In worse cases, the surgeon may think himself very successful if he can prevent the figure of the eve from being destroyed by the subsequent inflamma- tion, all idea of the recovery of the eyesight beino-1 out of the question. The treatment is the same as ' that commonly adopted after operations for the re- moval of an opaque lens (see Cataract); but there is one particular circumstance, sometimes at- tending injuries of the retuia and ciliary nerves, claiming notice, viz. violent vomiting; a symptom' which Beer says may even attend contusions of the sclerotica and of the ciliary nerves and retina without any wound. Injuries of the ciliary nerves he observes, are denoted by a very peculiar appear- ance; for, near the injured part, the iris is drawn up so close to the edge of the cornea, that its colour can scarcely be seen. When the surgeon is con- sulted in a case of this kind, though some inflam- mation may have commenced, the prognosis is yet favourable in regard to the preservation of the eye; for a gentle opiate will relieve the vomiting when merely a nervous effect, not depending upon the loaded state of the gastric organs; but, if the case be of this last description, the prima; via; should first be emptied. However, when a traumatic in- flammation is completely established before the treatment is begun, the eye is generally destroyed, as the repeated and violent vomitings cause a great detei-mination of blood to the head and 03-65, and increase of the inflammation ; an efl'ect, which the opiates, given for the relief of the vomiting, also tend to produce. Beer has seen two cases, in whicli the eye was pricked with a needle near the insertion "of the external straight muscle into the sclerotica: in both instances, the punctures were so small, tiiat t ley would .scarcely have been found, had not tlie patients known their situations exactly by the pain, and they were then only perceptible with a uagnilying glass. The punctures wore soon * ' d I'lf f convulsive rolling of the eyeball, ■lua .dlerwards liy trismus, which continued severe' n one patient a day and a half, and in another t^vo days, but yieUled to largo doses of musk and opium given at short intervals, the warm batl. and the application of warm poultices containing hyoscyamus. ° As chemical injuries of the eye produce an actual loss of substance, they are even more se- rious than common mechanical lesions. How ever, chemical injuries of little extent are gene- rally repaired with tolerable facility and expedition. Quietude of the organ, and moderating the out- ward noxious effects by lukewarm mucilaginous applications, either in the form of fomentations, or eye-waters, are the only requisite measures. If the cornea itself be hurt, as frequently happens, when boiling hot fluids strike the eye, a kind of vesicle appears on the injmed part, which becomes more and more white. The vesicle either bursts ot itself, or subsides without breaking. In both cases, the production of the conjunctiva, of which the cyst of the vesicle is composed, shrivels up and peels off, a new membrane of a similar nature being regenerated underneath. An opaque speck IS frequently apprehended ; but, says Beer, if the surgeon will merely avoid being too much in a hurry to open the vesicle, and not disturb the work of nature by applying various remedies to the eye, there will be no danger of such an occurrence. More extensive chemical injuries of the ej-e, which at first are not in themselves very severe' frequently become dangerous, in consequence of care not being taken to prevent the influence of I external stimuli. To this class of cases belongs the accidental sprinkling of the eye with boilina fluids or strongish mineral acids. And even in these examples, says Beer, the prognosis is not unfavourable, and a complete recovery may be effected when the treatment is conducted ac- cording to the directions already given with respect to such accidents in general. While this author approves of cutting away any substance which IS dead and partially detached," he strongly cautions surgeons not to remove the thin layer o'f the conjunctiva, nor to puncture any vesicle which may form. When the burning, or corrosion, is not limited to the conjunctiva of the eyeball, but extends to the lining of one or both eyelids. Beer recom- mends covering the injured parts with mucilagi- nous applications and mildly astringent ointments containing putty or the white oxide of lead. In these cases, keeping the eye perfectly motionless must be hurtful, as it tends to promote the form- ation of adhesions, either between tiie eye and eyelids (Symblepharon), or between the "eyelids themselves (Ankyloblepharon). ^ Extensive, deeply penetrating, chemical inju- ries of tlie eyeball, are almost afways followed by impairment of the functions of the organ, or of soine of its particular textures, because such accidents never happen without a loss of substance. Tims a part, or the whole, of the cornea, may he entirely destroyed, as in injuries caused by quicklime; and frequently adhesions between the eye and eyelids, or between the two latter parts, cannot be prevented by any kind of skill. {licer.) These • serious degrees of mischief, as the same autlior ob- serves, arc mostly occasioned by slaked, or uii- slaked lime, concentrated mineral acids, fire, &o. Unslaked lime, especially when extensively dif- fused over the eye by tlui immediate ajiplication of water, not unfroqncntly produces a suddcMi destruction of the whole of the cornea, which is