a practice which Scarpa thinka should always be carefully tried before the operation is determined upon. The surgeon, with a small convex-edged bistoury, is to make an incision of sufficient depth into the internal membrane of the eyelid, along the tarsus, carefully avoiding the situation of the pimcta lachry- nialia. Then, with a pair of forceps, he should niise the flap of the divided fungous membrane, and continue to detach it with the bistoury from the subjacent parts, all over the inner surface of the eyelid, as far as where the membrane quits this part, to be reflected over the front of the eye, under the name of coiijunctiva. The separation being thus far accomplished, the membrane is to be raised still more with the forceps, and cut off with one or two strokes of the scissors, at the lowest part of the eyelid. The compresses and bandage to keep the eyelid replaced, are to be applied as above directed. On changing the dressings, a day or two after the operation, the eyelid will be found, in a great measure, replaced, and the disfigurement which the disease caused greatly amended. The operation is occasionally, though rarely, followed by bad symp- toms, such as vomiting, violent pain, and inflam- mation. However, should they occur, the vomiting may be relieved by means of an opiate clj'ster, and as for the pain and inflammation, attended with great tumefaction of the eyelid operated upon, these complaints may be cured by apply- ing a poultice, or bags filled with emollient herbs, at the same time employing internal antiphlogia- tics, until the inflammation and swelling have sub- sided, and suppuration has commenced on the inside of the eyelid, on which the operation has been done. After this, the treatment is to consist in washing the part twice a da)', with water, or barley-water, and lastly, in touching the wound a few times with the nitrate of silver, in order to keep the granulations within certain limits, and to form a permanent cicatrix, proper for maintaining the eyelid replaced. Juengken describes a plan, which has been adopted by Jaeger, and was practised a hundred years ago by Plainer {Ins/it. Chir. ยง 582), and even recommended a century before this author, b)- our countryman, Bannister, lleister and Dionis notice it still more circumstantially. {SeeMiddle- more, On Dis. of (he Ei/e; vol. ii. p. 787.) It consists in detaching the everted eyelid from the cheek, or superciliary ridge, at every point, ex- cepting the angles, by introducing a sharp-pointed double-edged knife, through the conjunctival sur- face, near the inner angle, bringing rt out through the skin, and conveying it across to the outer angle. A portion of the thickened conjunctiva, or a triangular piece of the lid, may be first removed, if necessary. The detached lid is then to be ac- curately fixed, in contact with the g\ohe, and the skin of the cheek drawn towards the eye, ami kept in that position with adhesive plaster, coniprcsses, and bandage. {Ifumlhuch, i^-c p. GfltJ.) DiefTen- bach makes an incision through the skin and orbicularis, nearly parallel to the edge of the lower lid, beginning two or three lines from one angle, and terminating at the same distance from the other. It is one line from the edge of the lid at its two ends, and two or throe linos in the middle. He turns up the small flap of skin, and dissects through the lid to the conjunctiva, which he divides to the extent of the external wound. With a )PION. C1.3 hook he draws the external margin of the divided conjunctiva into the wound of the skin, and keeps it and the integuments together with sutures. (See Chii; Eifahnwgc.n uher die Wiederherstelltmg Zerstortcr Theile, cjc. von J. F. Dieffenbuch, p. 127. Berlin, 1830.) In cases in which the eversion is considerable, Sir W. Adams never found the simple excision of the fungus sufficient to effect a radical cure, and he therefore tried a new mode of operating. In his first attempts he employed a small curved bistourj'. the point of which he carried along the inside (if the eyelid, at its outer angle, downwards and out- wards, as far as the point of reflection of the conjunctiva would admit. He then pushed it through the whole substance of the everted eyelid and its integuments, and cut upwards through the tarsus, making an incision nearly half an inch in length. With a curved pair of scissors he next snipped off a piece of the edge of the tarsus, about one-third of an inch in width, and he afterwards removed with the same instrument the whole of the diseased conjunctiva. When the bleeding had ceased, SirW. Adams passed a needle and ligature through the whole substance of the two divided portions, and brought them as accurately into con- tact as possible. Finding, however, that too much integmnent had been left at the lower part of the incision, he employed, in future operations, instead of the scalpel, a pair of straight scissors, with which he cut out an angular piece of the lid, re- sembling the letter V, with its broad interval towards the ciliary edge of the lid. Latterly, Sir W. Adams found it advantageous to leave about a quarter of an inch of the lid adjoining its external angle ; and after shortening the part as much as necessary, he brought the edges of the incision together with a suture. (See Practical Obs. on Ectropion, 4'c. p. 4 and 5. Lond. 1812.) That this operation will cure the ectropion, caused by the contraction of cicatrices, or produce great improvement, the experience of Mr. Travers confirms. {Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 235.) Mr. Guthrie also acknowledges that it may be highly useful in the ectropion from the5,con- traction of a cicatrix. {On the Operative Surgery of the Eye, p. 71.) The contracted scar must be divided, in addition to the other proceedings. In the form of ectropion, arising from a hard- ened and contracted state of the integuments of the eye, but without any cicatrix, the indications seem to Mr. Guthrie to be : 1st, To relieve the contraction of the skin externally; 2ndlj', To restore and retain the eyelid in its proper situation, until the unnatural curvature of the cartilage has been overcome, and the chronic inflammation removed. For fulfilling the first indication he recommends washing the external parts with warm water, so as to leave the skin as clean as possible. It is then to be carefully dried, and repeatedly anointed with the ung. zinci, for three or four days. Being thus protected frcun the irritation, it becomes softer, and in a favourab!e_ state to yield to mild extension. For accomplishing the seccnid indication, Mr. Guthrie applies the sulphuric acid ; the evelid having been cleansed so as to prevent its slippinsr, the conjunctiva is to be gently wiped dry, and everted as much as possible, so that the part where it begins to bo reflected over the eyeball may be seen. An assistant is to raise the upper eyt-lid ii little, and the patient to look upwards. The blinit H K 3