691 FRACTURE, cjuickly recover its strength, but continues stiff and weak for a year, or even a longer time. The most effectual plans for the prevention of this .state should therefore be resorted to early. These consist in making the joints nearest the fracture execute slight motions, as soon as the union is sufficiently advanced not to be in danger of inter- ruption from this practice. A great deal of caution, however, is necessary in moving the part, and it is safer for the surgeon to superintend the business himself, than leave it to the patient, or others. One of the best proceedings also for the hindrance of much weakness and stiffness in the limb after a fracture, is to discontinue the splints and tight bandages immediately the state of the callus will allow. The manner in which their pressure re- tards the circulation, and prevents the action of the muscles, is one of the principal causes of the stiffness which sometimes ensues, and consequently, the sooner they can be safely left off, the sooner will the patient regain the free use of the limb. In France, the chief division of fractures is into simple and complicated, which last includes, amongst many varieties, the cases which we name compound. We shall here briefly notice a few of the complica- tions, and the particular treatment which they require. Fractures (saj-s Boyer) are always attended with a certain degree of contusion, which is con- stantly more severe in cases where the violence has acted directly on the situation of the fracture. But such contusion can only be regarded as a com- plication of the accident, when it exists in so violent a degree as to demand a different treatment from that which is employed in simple fractures. In this circumstance, the splints and bandage should be applied rather slackly, and the latter ought to be wet with cold water, or some resolvent lotion. The patient is to be bled more or less fteely, according to his age, the state of his consti- tution, and violence of the contusion. The next day, the splints and bandage should be opened ; a thing highly necessary to be observed ; for where it has been neglected, the limb has been known to mortify, in consequence of the swelling having ren- dered the bandage too tight. {Boijer, Mai. Chir, t. iii. p. 63, 64.) In simple fractures it does not often happen that a large artery is wounded ; but when the injury does occur, and a diffused aneurism takes place, the surgeon is to expose the vessel by an incision, and apply a ligature above and below the opening. We are to be careful, however, before resorting to the operation, that the tumor is not a venous extrava- sation, which may almost always be dissipated by resolvent applications. Fractures are sometimes complicated with a dis- location. Here, if possible, the luxation should invariably be reduced before the fracture is set. The possibility of reducing the dislocation (says Boyer) depends upon the species of articulation, the situation of the fracture, and other circumstances of the case. When it is a ginglymoid joint, when the ligaments are lacerated, and the swelling is not considerable, the luxation may be reduced easily enough ; but when it is an orbicular joint, sur- rounded by numerous muscles, and when the frac- ture is near the articulation, and situated below the dislocation, the reduction of the latter is impossible. The attempt, indeed, would be injurious, because the necessary extension could not net upon the upper fragment; and were it to operate upon the lower, it could only have the effect of painfully stretching the muscles, and perhaps lacerating them. The fracture, therefore, should be at first attended to, and after its firm union an endeavour may be made to rectify the dislocation. Boyer conceives that there will be more probability of success when care is taken to move the limb gently, as soon as the state of the callus will permit it. He also recommends the employment of emollient relaxing applications, He confesses, however, that the attempt rarely succeeds after the perfect union of the fracture. There are, it is true, examples, in which old dislocations may be reduced ; but these are cases which are not complicated with a fracture; an accident which always renders the muscles and ligaments so stiff that they cannot yield to the ex- tension requisite for the reduction. " I do not know (says Boyer) that a luxation, complicated with fracture, has ever been reduced, when the nature of the joint, and the circumstances of the case, prevented the treatment from beginning with the reduction of dislocation." {Mai. Chir. t. iii. p. 79.) See DiSLpcATiONS. Compound Fractukes, Here the first question is, whether an attempt should be made to save the lirab ? If the first op- portunity of amputating be lost, there may never be another. Inflammation comes on, and the constitu- tional disturbance may prove fatal, and no second opportunity may present itself. In some cases, traumatic gangrene will invade the limb, and hardly leave time for the surgeon to amputate. Indeed, after it has once begun, so rapid is its progress that unless the operation be immediately performed, the patient's doom is sealed. Hence, in this kind of mortification, it is now a maxim not to wait for the red line of demarcation, but to remove the limb without the least delay, even though the mortification may be in a spreading state. With the exception of this case, if the first opportunity of amputating has been lost, the surgeon must wait until the constitutional disturbance has partly sub- sided before the knife can be used. This period may occur on the establishment of suppuration. But whether he ought now to amputate or not, will depend upon the extent and nature of the local injury ; whether the soft parts are severely con- tused and lacerated—the bones crushed and com- minuted—the degree of suppuration—the state of the pulse, &c. Under doubtful circumstances, the surgeon may yet be disposed to persevere in his endeavour to save the limb, and sometimes ulti- mately succeed in bringing the patient through all dangers; in extricating him from the weakening effects of repeated abscesses, profuse suppuration, &c. But in other instances, the long continuance of the suppuration—the presence and irritation of dead hone—the diseased state of all the cellular tissue—the implication, perhaps, of a neighbouring joint in the mischief, and the urgency of the hectic disturbance of the system, will compel the surgeon to amputate. Supposing an attempt is to be made to save the limb, then the first indication is to reduce the frac- ture. For this purpose, lay the limb on the splint or apparatus, with pad,&c. and attend to the re- laxation of muscles. When the protruding end of tlie bone cannot be returned, it is to be sawn off, or the wound enlarged. V \ 2