342 BONES, EX< 3IS10N OF. It may also result from a decomposition of stagnant blood or of pus in putrid abscesses, or in the blood itself, or from the decomposition of urea contniiied in the bladder. A superalkaline state of the blood promotes the deposition of pliosphates in the urine. Superalkulesceuce of the blood may be a primary morbid state or a consequence of some disease. Dr. Hiixhara records the case of a gentleman who habituated himself to the use of carbonate of am- monia, so that he would at length eat it in a very remarkable manner. He brought on fever; profuse hemorrhage from the intestines, nose, and gums ; every one of his teeth dropped out; he wasted ; his muscles became as soft and flabby as those of a new-born infant; he broke out all over his body in irritable pustules ; his urine was excessively high coloured, turbid, and very foatid; and he died in the highest degree of marasmus, and tabid. Hux- ham compared the effects to those which result from the bite of a viper. When ammonia is de- veloped in the blood more rapidly, as the effect of disease, the condition identifies itself with typhoid symptoms, or with the eflects of ammonia taken in poisonous doses;—there is the dry, dark tongue, involuntary action of muscles, from subsultus to violent convulsions, aberration of the senses, or insensibility and coma, resulting in death; and after death the blood is found fluid, resembling the lees of port wine, strongly ammoniacal, feebly or not at all coagulable, and the corpuscles misshapen or partially dissolved. A superalkaline condition of the blood must be regarded by the surgical practitioner as the expo- nent of more complex derangements (see Blood, Pathology of;Span^mia; Uremia; Kvperi- NOSis); and it is important, in the treatment of wounds and surgical diseases generall}', to keep a strict watch on tlie chemical reactions of the secre- tions and exhalations from the kidneys, skin, lungs, and other organs, and of the blood itself; since an excess of alkalinity may afford the earliest indica- tion of a tendency to dissolution of the blood and the death of the patient. Tlio best mode of counter- acting this tendency has not been determined. Neutral salts composed of vegetable acids sometimes tend to increase it, being decomposed by the oxyda- tion of the acid, and the carbonic acid formed thereby excreted by the lungs ; the alkali or its carbonate, if it fail to pass off in the secretions, remains in the blood. Acids appear to bo most clearly indicated, and were most relied on by the older practitioners. When absorbed into the blood, they enter into combination with alkalies, and tend at once to reduce the quantity of free basic matter in the system. The mineral acids are most power- ful, and this is probably the modus operandi by which they produce beneficial effect in typhoid and putrid fevers.] Henry Aiicell, BOIIi. (See FURUKCDLUS.) BONES, EXCISION OF. This operation is sometimes applicable to the articular portions of bones, but still more frequent!)'' to other parts of them. The circumstances under which it is prac- tised for the removal of diseased, or very severely injured joints, and the plans then to be adopted, will be hereafter considered. (Sec Joints, E.\- cisiON OP.) Neither shall I dwell at present upon the removal of the projecting ends of broken or dislocated bones; nor upon sawing off the ex- tremities of old ununited fractures ; subjects noticed in the account of Dislocation and Fracture. In the articles Amputation, Gunshot Wounds, and Joints, Excision or, I have called tiie reader's attention to the praiseworthy method of cutting down to, and removing, all loose splinters of the OS bracliii, and even the sharp end of that bone itself, from certain gunshot injuries of the shoulder, so as frequently to obviate the necessity for amputating the limb. The cases demanding the removal of portions of the skull, and the manner of accomplishing it, will be described under the head Trephine. Towards the conclusion of the observations upon Amputation, some account has already been given of the excision of certain bones of iha hand and foot. It is difficult, as M. Mal- gaigne observes, to lay down any precise directions for the excision of the bones of the tarsus. The following plan was adopted by Moreau, the father, for an extensive caries :—Over the cuboid bone, there was one ulcer an inch in diameter; and another between the third and fourth metatarsal bones, resulting from an incision made a few days previously for the discharge of an abscess. A probe penetrated into the cuboid bone. An inci- sion was made along the outer side of the foot, and extended across the ulcer, from the posterior third of the fifth metacarpal bone to above the anterior tuberosity of the os calcis; and, as the incision already made for the abscess could now be made serviceable, this and the other incision were con- joined by a transverse one, and the square flaps reflected. Tlie diseased bones were thus brought into view, and it was necessary to remove tl\e cuboid, the third cuneiform, the posterior end of the fourth metatarsal bone, the inner side of the extremity of the fifth, and the articular surface, by which the os calcis is united to the cuboid bone. The tendon of the peronseus longus was preserved. The flaps were then laid down, and united with two sutures. The patient, who was young, got completely well. The vacancies, occasioned bj' the extrication of the bones, were filled up by a substance which afterwards ossified. In the end, the patient was able to walk well; the foot having assumed its natural shape and motions. (See Malgaigne, Man. de Med. Oper. p. 243.) The operation of removing the metiicarpal bone of the thumb, or the metatarsal bone of the great toe, is not deemed by Mr. Liston an advisable proceed- ing ; because the rest of the thumb or toe is left without support, and is useless. He has seen aiscs treated in this way; but the result was unsatis- factory. However, Monro removed iha whole of the first metatarsal bone on account of caries, and M. Barbicr did the same thing at the Val de Grace after a dislocation of the bone; and, in each case, the result was in every respect successful. (See Malyaigne, op. cit. p. 243.) The eairaclion of the metacarpal bone of the thumb has been performed with success by M. lloux and M. Blandin. The thumb was at first shortened and useless; but gradually became capable of executing all its natural movements. (See J\fatgaiffne, Man. de Med. Oper. p. 232.) An incision is to be made along the radial edge of the bone, and to extend aliout half an inch beyond each of its articulations. Then the integuments iiud extensor tendon are to be detached from its dorsal, and afterwards the nmscles from its palmar surface. While an assist- ant holds aside the lips of the wound, the surgeon opens the outer side of the carpal joint with the point of the knife, cuts through the tendon of the