CANCER. 400 by tlic New Mode of Pressure, 8vo. Lend. 1818. J. Pearson, Practicfil Obs. on Cancerous Co plaints; with an Account of some Diseases, which have been confounded with Cancer; also Critical Remarks on some of the Operations performed in Cancerous Cases, Svo. Lond. 1793. Abernethi/'s Surgical Works, vol. ii. Lond. 1811. J. Rodman, A Practical Explana- tion of Cancer in the Breast, 8vo. Lond. 1815. Sir E. Home, Obs. on Cancer, Svo. Lond. 1805. Sir C.Bell on the Varieties of Diseases comprehended under the name of Carcinoma Mammse, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xii. Lond. 1322. Sir A. Cooper's Lectures, vol. ii. 1825. Also Illustrations of the Diseases of the Breast. Lond. 1829. 4to. Hill, in Edin. Med. Journ. No. 87. Dr. Hodgkin, On the Anatomical Characters of some Adventitious Structures; Med. Chir. Trans, vol. XV. p. 265. Benj. Travers, Obs. on the Local Diseases termed Malignant; Med. Chir. Trans, vol, XV. p. 195, 230; also vol. xvii. p. 300. J. A. Reca- micr, Recherches sur le Traitement du Cancer par Compression, 2 vols. Svo. Paris, 1829. A. Ure, M.D. in Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xviii. p. 287. Caesar Hawkins, in Lond. Med. Gaz. for Aug. 1834. Andral, Prdcis d'Anat. Pathol, t. i. p. 501, &c. Svo. Paris, 1829. L. J. Bdffin, art. Cancer, in Diet, de M^d. et de Chir. Pratiques, Svo. Paris, 1830. J. Cruveilhier, Anat. Pathol. Paris, 1829. Rob. Carswell, M.D. Illustrations of the Elementary Forms of Disease, p. 2, 3. Lond. 1833. fol. Treatment. [Since tlie publication of the first edition of this work our acquaintance with the structure and relations of cancer has been greatly advanced, as the foregoing resume, of the labours of others fully shows. But of the treatment of cancer we cannot say nearly as much. We look over the long list of internal remedies that have been tried, and we lay^ it down with the sorrowful conviction that there is not one on which we can put any reliance. Local treatment seems to oifer somewhat more of hope, especially if timely and judiciously employed. Iodine and arsenic are the only internal remedies that seem to deserve any particular notice, and their compound the iodide of arsenic. M. Velpeaii, though disbelieving entirely in the power of iodide of potassium to remove any tumor whose cancerous nature is positively apparent, at least as a general rule, yet gives two cases in which tumors, which, at any rate very much resembled scirrhus, disap- peared under full doses (14 to 20 grains daily) of this salt with inunction of iod. plumbi oint- ment. Dr. Walshe (whose calm and accurate judg- ment commands confidence) is evidently not inclined to reject in toto the accounts given of cures effected by it. He prefers, however, the iod. arsenic in doses of gr. his die, and in cases of non-ulcerated mammary scirrhus he has witnessed the following effects from its use. The pain of the tumors de creases in violence. Its bulk diminishes, and its enlargement is arrested. The general health im proves. The remedy may be taken without risk for several months. Of arsenic, Velpeau says, that not being able to do good by its agency, he has feared to do injury. This feeling, though not itnreasonable, is yet, I am inclined to think, often allowed to operate to too great an extent. Prac titioners are averse to the use of arsenic because it sometimes disagrees decidedly, and because its good effects are slowly produced, and then only with careful and skilful management. Eixlcrnal remedies.—Local abstraction of blood in the way recommended by Fearon does not seem advisable. Dr. Walshe coincides with Mr. Burns in the opinion " that the obstinate and senseless reiteration of leeching can only tend to weaken the patient, and sooner break up the con- stituton." " In the very earliest stages of diseased induration one or two applications of leeches are ad- visable, even as a guide to the diagnosis of tumors of doubtful character." Or if inflammation arists in the vicinity of the diseased growth, it may be combated by leeching. But if a tumor has become adherent to the skin, it is not to be thought of, as the leech bites may become permanent ulcerations. Ligature of nutrient arteries has produced, ac- cording to repeated testimonies, good effects, sometimes even complete cure. It seems, however, difficult to believe that this could be other than a most rare occurrence, even where the anatomical disposition rendered such a proceeding possible. Congelation by means of a mixture of pounded ice (four parts), and bay-salt (two parts) is con- sidered by Velpeau as capable of being emplo3'ed as a palliative if not curative measure in certain cases of cancer. After its application " the parts become blanched, assume a dead colour, and hard?n, and should the congelation be continued beyond a quarter of an hour it transforms the tissues into a genuine eschar, which, at a later period, will be eli- minated by inflammatory reaction." One advan- tage it has, is that of checking for the time all flow of blood, discharge, or other fluid, and there- fore may be employed with benefit in ulcerated cancer or fungous growths. A remarkable case has been recorded by Mr. Simon in the report of the Path. Sao. for 1864, of a female set. 36, or more, who was treated for a mammary scirrhus by the application of a bladder of pounded ice to the breast. It was applied at first for half an hour, afterwards for two hours or more daily. Its use afforded great relief to the pain, and produced such diminution of the tumor that in thirty-four days there only remained some flat fibrous-feeling indui'ation, over which the skin was adherent. The general health had greatly improved. In about nine months after leaving the hospital she returned, and was readmitted suffering with s. large hard tumor in the epigastrium. In about six weeks she died, v;hen cancer was found in the liver to a great extent, in the peritoneum, pleurae, peri- cardium, and breast. The latter part, which was not of large size, was indurated and scirrhous, and its integuments presented small cancerous tubercles. Such a case certainly shows the power of cold in checking morbid growth, and indeed arresting it, but at the same time, makes it probable that actual mortification and destruction of the tumor by the cold would have been preferable. Preparations of Iodine.—Oi these Dr. Walshe gives the preference to the iodide of lead. His experience (corroborated by that of others) does not allow him " to conceive a single doubt that tumors actually and truly scirrhous in structure,— tumors which would have run the common course of cancer, — may be arrested in their progress by early and judicious use of these agents." Such recommendation should certainly not be forgotten in dealing with non-ulcerated cancer of any ex- ternal part. Velpeau states that he has employed compremon in cancer with a hearty and sincere desire of finding it efficacious, but that he has been entirely disappointed. Some apparent temporary dim.nu- tion'i'n size, he says, may be effccted by the tum^ becoming flattened, and getting hidden between two of the ribs, but this is all. He does no seem to have used the app.-u-atus invented by Dr. N.