•jOt; BLADDER. Active antiphlogistic treatment, such as the abs- traction of blood, or the administration of calomel or antimony, is seldom required; for although the local irritation is considerable, the general state of the system is mostly characterised by debility and depression. The bowels should be kept open by mild unirritating purgatives. The irritability of the bladder and the frequent desire to micturate should be relieved by the administration of opium, either by the mouth, or by the rectum in the form of an enema or suppository. Alkalies will, in most cases, be beneficial, although, in consequence of the alkaline state of the urine, acid remedies, and es- pecially the mineral acids, are often administered. This practice, however, is based on erroneous prin- ciples, for the urine is often acid when first formed, but is rendered alkaline subsequently by the alka- line mucus of the bladder. Its acidity, in fact (as Dr. G. O. Rees has explained), may often be a soiu-ce of irritation, and therefore if we lessen the acidity as it is secreted on to the mucous surface, and thereby render it less irritating, that surface may in time recover itself, and no longer pour out that fluid which is the result of inflammation. The ui-ine will after a time pass over it without pro- ducing irritation, and the result will be that acid urine is voided, its natural acidity being only par- tially neutralised by the dose of alkali which has been administered. This is the only satisfactory ex- planation of the fact, so anomalous at first view, that alkaline urine may be rendered acid by the adminis- tration of an alkaline remedy (see Lond. Med. Gas. vol. i. 1851, p. 36.). With this object in view, the liquor potassse may be prescribed; or the sesquicar- bonate of soda ; or the bicarbonate of potash ; or the common effervescing saline draught, consisting of the tartrate or citrate of soda or potash. It is important to be aware, with respect to these latter, that the vegetable acids which enter into their composition become converted into carbonic acid in passing through the system, and they therefore reach the urine in the form of carbonates, and not in their original state as citrates or tartrates. Hence they will have the same effect upon the urine as if an equal quantity of the alkaline carbonates had been given, while they are more pleasant to the taste, and will often agree better with an irritable stomach. On the same principle. Dr. Rees remarks, that acid wines, especially champagne, taken in quan- tity, are capable of producing alkaline urine. The alkalinity might be looked upon as a sign of rapid decay of vital power, whereas it may be owing merely to the support we are aflfording the patient in the form of champagne (loc. cit. p. 36). In all cases, however, where there is reason to believe that the urine is alkaline tvhcii secreted by the kid- neys, as in cases of extreme depression, or when there is a large quantity of crystalline phosphatic deposit in tlie urine, all remedies likely to increase the alkalescence should be carefully withheld. But there are, besides, certain remedies which are regarded as having a specific action on the vesical mucous membrane. The chief of these are, the leaves of uva ursi, of diosnia crcnata or Buchu, and of chimaphila umbellatn, and the root of pareira brnva. These drugs may often be em ployed willi advantage, especially in those cases whore the catarrh is excessive, and the inilaninia tory symptoms arc not prominent. They are all astringent in thoir action, and are frequently pre scribed indiscriminately; but, according to Dr. Gold- ing Bird, " eaclr fulfils a second indication which should never bo lost sight of. Thus we find in the uva ursi a simple astringent, but slightly diu- retic ; chimaphila, a less active astringent, but freely stimulating the kidneys; burosraa (diosina, Buchu), a stimulating tonic, diuretic and diapho- retic, whose active principle (volatile oil) is ex- creted by the kidneys; pareira, a narcotic (?) tonic diuretic." The latter is especially recommended by Sir B. Brodie, in the form of a decoction, pre- pared from half an ounce of the root to three pints of water, simmered gently near the fire, till reduced to one pint. The patient to drink from eight to twelves ounces daily. When the catarrh is exces- sive, and the inflammatory symptoms are slight, copaiba, cubebs, or Chios turpentine, may some- times be given with advantage. But in addition to the general treatment, it is possible to reach the diseased mucous surface with local applications. Sedative, or astringent solutions, may be injected into the bladder through an elastic gum catheter. On this sub- ject. Sir B. Brodie remarks, that in aggravated cases of disease the mildest injections, even those of tepid water, will do harm rather than good. When, however, the symptoms have in some degree abated, he thinks the injection of tepid water, or decoction of poppies, is, in many instances, pro- ductive of excellent eifects. The liquid should be allowed to remain in the bladder thirty or forty seconds, and not more than an ounce and a half or two ounces should be injected at a time. Any distension of the bladder will be injurious instead of beneficial. The injection may be repeated once or twice in the twenty-four hours. When the symptoms have still further abated, a small quan- tity of nitric acid may be added to the injection, from five to ten minims of the dilute acid to an ounce of distilled water. (See Brodie,of. cit. p. 114.) Weak solutions of nitrate of silver have also been recommended. Some French surgeons have used injections of balsam of copaiba, of turpentine, and other similar substances. (See Nelaion, EL de Path. Chir. t. v. p. 277.) M. Lallemand has even practised cauterisation of the mucous membrane of the bladder with solid nitrate of silver. (SeeCo;//- son, On Bis. of the Bladder, p. 170.) Tlie double current catheter may conveniently be used for in- jecting the bladder; by this instrument, a continuous stream of fluid may be passed through the organ, and its cavity may be more effectually washed out, while over-distension is at the same time avoided. liiiffous bladder, a thickened and contracted con- dition of bladder, with hard, prominent rugosities on its inner surface, is not unfrequently met with in children, and sometimes, though more rarely, m adults. This condition is accompanied by great irritability of the bladder, and frequent desire to pass water. There is acute pain in passing it, and it is often mixed with blood. The symptoms s,- mulate very closely those of stone in the bladder, and it may bo necessary to sound the patient to clear up the doubt. Even when the sound is in- troduced, a surgeon unaware of this condition o bladder, or whose hand is inexperienced, migUt mistake the sensation conveyed by the hard ana roughened walls of the bladder for that V'^oM hy a calculus (see Lithotomy). This state of bladder however, is rarely coexistent with stone. J- e Ireatment shonld be mainly directed to soothe the irritability of the bladder. Alkalies and sedatives.