52(5 DISLOCATION, 18-11.) A man, xt. 59, injured his shoulder by falling backwards, and receiving the weight of his body upon his elbow. After the subsidence of the severe inflaraniatory symptoms which super- vened, the joint was found to be slightly flattened at its outer and posterior part, and the head of the bone looked as if it were drawn up higher in the glenoid cavity than it should be. On moving the limb, a crepitating sensation was produced, simu- lating a fracture, but in reality caused by the friction of the head of the humerus against the acromion. On attempting abduction, the arm could not be raised beyond a very acute angle with the body, from the upper edge of the greater tubercle coming in contact with the acromion. The head of the bone was also unduly prominent, in front. The arm could be readily swung back- wards and forwards, but was powerless for all useful purposes, and severe pain was induced by any action of the biceps muscle. Six months after the accident, the man was brought into the Bath Hospital with a compound fracture of tlie skull, and died in a few days. On examining the joint, the long head of the biceps was found dis- located from its groove, and lying on the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Tiie capsule was slightly ruptured. The head of the humerus came in contact with the under surface of the acrnmion, and ulceration of the cartilage covering it had commenced. In consequence of this case, Mr. Partridge made some experiments to ascertain to what extent, and by what means, partial disloca- tion could be artificially produced. He found, though the capsule was completely divided, that so long as the tendon was undisturbed, no dis- placement of the bone upwards and forwards could be effected ; and that division of the tendon alone was insufficient ; hut when the incision through the tendon included a small portion of the capsule, all impediment to the dislocation was removed. (Si>- A. Cooper, On Dislocation, ^c. edited hy B. Cooper, p. 407.) In the museum of. the Medico-Chirurgi- cal Society of Aberdeen there is a preparation of an unreduced partial dislocation upwards, which in all respects very closely agrees with the de- scription and drawing of the case related by Mr. Soden. It was taken from the body of a subject brought to one of t!ie dissecting rooms in Aber- deen. (Pirric's Surgery, p. 298.) An account of the dissection of another case of partial dislocation upwards, has been published by Mr. Alfred Smee. This case differed from Mr. Soden's, in being accompanied by rupture instead of displacement of the tendon of the biceps ; the rup- tured end had adhered firmly to the bicipital groove, and consequently had lost all immediate influence on the joint itself. The upper part of the great turberosity was converted into an articular surface, and corresponded to another smooth surface formed under the acromion. (See Lancet, vol. i. 1845, p. 323.) Mr. Callaway believes that the cases de- scribed as incomplete dislocations of the shoulder may not unfrequently depend on injury of the long tendon of the biceps. lu hia investigations on this subject, ho collected records of twenty-two cases of injury of tliis tendon ; of these, five were disloca- tions, and the remaining seventeen ruptures. Both the dialocatioii and the rupture of the tendon, he observes, are accompanied by lateral and posterior flattening of the shoulder and prominence of the head of the bone anteriorly, from which latter cir- cumstance it arises that the injury may be mis- taken for a partial dislocation. Rupture of the tendon, says Mr. Callaway, usually takes place in persons beyond the meridian of life ; the usual situation of the separation is about midway between the glenoid cavity and the anatomical neck of the humerus. Should it occur within the groove, there is more marked retraction of the separated portion of the belly of the muscle, because it, in tiiis in- stance, escapes from the groove. In three cases ob- served by Mr. Barron, the tendon was detached from its natural origin at the glenoid cavity, but adhered instead, and still by its extremity, to the upper part of the bicipital groove. Of the five cases of dislocation, the tendon was dislocated inwards and to the lower part of the joint, in three : it was lodged respectively on the greater and lesser tubero- sities in the two others. In the dislocation there appears to be more pain and greater loss of power than in the rupture of the tendon. The subse- quent inflammation also is more severe, and the patient is longer in recovering the use of his arm. Mr. Stanle}-, who has related three cases of injury of this tendon, fcmnd that in one the slightest movement of the arm backwards, and in another, pressure upon the joint, were followed by acute pain, precisely in the situation where the tendon of the biceps turns over the head of the humerus. The sj'mptoms of these injuries being obscure, and the deformity slight, they are probably often con- sidered simply as sprains, or bruises, but thej' will diflrer from a sprain or bruise, in requii ing a much longer period for their reparation. In the rupture, the repair will consist in adhesion of the tendon to the bicipital groove ; in the dislocation, it will form for itself new connexions, and will b}"- degrees ac- commodate itself to its new position, and by de- grees the movements of the joint will be more or less perfectly recovered. Anj' treatment directed to the replacement of the tendon, if it is believed to be dislocated, is unlikely to prove effectual ; it will be better to keep the joint at rest, and counter- act inflammatory symptoms, and as there is usually a tendency to displacement of the head of the humerus forwards, it should be thrown backwards by bringing the elbow forwards and fixing it in a sling. (See Cullatvay, On the Shoulder Joint, p. 143, 1849. Dr. Robert Knox, On an Altered Condition of the Tendon of the Biceps, Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. i. 1828, p. 404. E. Stanley, On Rup- ture o/the Tendon of the Biceps, Lond. J\[cd. Gaz. vol. iii. p. 12, 1828. J. Grepory Smith, Patholo- gical Appearances of Seven Cases of Injury to the Shoulder Joint, Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xiv. 1834, p. 280. E. E. Barron, Peculiar Formation of the Biceps Muscle, Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xx. 1837, p. 554.)] The following singular observation is recorded by Baron Larrej': — "Among the curious anatomical preparations, (says he) which I saw in the cabinet of the uni- versity of Vienna, there was a dissected thorax, shown to me by Professor Prokaska, in which the whole orbicular mass of the head of the riglit humerus, engaged between the second and third true ribs, projected into the cavity of the cliesl. This singular displacement was the result of an accidental luxation, occasioned by a fall on the . elbow, while tlie arm was extended aiul lifted from the side. The head of the humerus, after tearing the capsular ligament, had been violently