ARTERIES. •285 tributed, viz. the heart, lungs, and stomach. (See Zeqons Orales, ^'c. t. iv. p. 17.) The ri^ht common carotid trunk is much shorter than the left ; the former arising from the brachio- cephalic trunk, the latter from the arch of the aorta. Both terminate opposite the space be- tween the os-h}'oides and upper edge of the thyroid cartilage; and behind each of them are the longus colli and rectus capitis anticus muscles, placed in front of the cervical vertebrra. In the lower part of the neck, the trachea is near their inner side; higher up, the thyroid gland ; and still higher up, the larynx and pharynx. The e-xternal side of the common carotid is in contact with the internal jugular vein, which partly over- laps it; while, between the two vessels, but rather behind them, and enclosed in the same common sheath with them, the pnenmogastric nerve de- scends. In the lower part of the neck, the carotid sheath has behind it the recurrent laryngeal nerve and the inferior thyroid artery. The descending branch of the ninth nerve commonly lies upon the fore part of the sheath, closely connected to it, and about the middle of the neck, forms a plexus, with some filaments from the second and third cervical nerves. At the upper part of the neck this nerve lies rather towards the outer side of the sheath; at the lower, on the inner side. Mr. Har- rison has often found it within the sheath, behind the jugular vein. The sympathetic and cardiac nerves are situated between the sheath and the rectus anticus major muscle. The common carotid artery is covered below by the skin, platj'sraa, and cer- vical fascia, and also by the sterno-mastoid, sterno- hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles. Opposite the upper rings of the trachea, it is crossed by the omohyoideus. But, from this point to its bifur- cation, the vessel is covered only by the skin, platysma, and fascia. The omohyoideus, as it proceeds from the shoulder behind the sterno-mas- toid muscle, divides the artery into an upper and lower portion, and the side of the neck into two triangular spaces. In the lower triangle, bounded by the trachea, clavicle, and omohyoideus itself, the common carotid is concealed by the sternul origin of the mastoid muscle, and lies deeply under the stemo-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. But, in the upper triangle, bounded externally by the margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, above by a transverse line denoting the uppermost extent of this space below the os-hyoides, and on the inside by the omohyoideus, tlie vessel is much more su- perficial. Here, however, a plexus of veins often lies directly in front of the carotid sheath. (See Velpeau, Noiw. EUm. do Mid. Opcr. t. i. p. 234; Quuin's Analomy, ed. 2, p. 437; Harrison's Anal, of Arteries, vol. i. p. 1.9, ed. 2; Manac, Traile de la Li//, de.s Artircs, No. i. pi. iv.) A chain of alisorbent glands lies near the carotid sheath, prin- cipally on its external side, and is piirtly concealed by the sterno-mastoid muscle, and covered l)y the cervical fascia. In young subjects these glands are large and numerous; "they are frequently en- larged and indurated by chronic infl.immation ; the muscles and fascia press them closely to the vessels ; they become fixed, and have a pulsation communicated to them, so as to resemble aneurism." {Harrison, op. et. vol. cit. p. 21.) The opi.'ration of tying the common carotid is sometimes performed while the patient is in the sit- ting posture ; but, on account of the chance of his becoming faint, I consider the recumbent position best, with the chest somewhat raised, the neck moderately extended, and the chin turned towards the opposite side. If the artery is to be tied below the omohyoideus, the front edge of the sterno- mastoid muscle is to be first felt for, and an in- cision, three inches long, made in the direction of it, commencing opposite the cricoid cartilage, and directed towards the sterno-clavicular articulation, a little above which it is to terminate. The second stroke of the knife divides the platysma myoides and cervical fascia, so as to bring into view the fibres of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Un- less this last incision be made over the latter muscle, it is best to pinch up a portion of the cervical fascia with the forceps, and cut it across, so as to make a small opening in it for the in- troduction of a director, on which it is to be slit up. (See Quain's Anatomy, p. 450, ed. 2.) An as- sistant now draws the inner margin of the wound, and the sterno-thyroid and sterno-hyoid muscles, towards the median line, while the surgeon himself draws the external margin of the wound, and the sterno-mastoid muscle, outward. For this purpose, blunt hooks are sometimes preferred, as not con- cealing the parts so much as the fingers. The omohyoideus is now seen running across the wound in the form of a red cord, and above and below it are the vein and artery, enclosed in their common sheath. Tills sheath should be opened over the arterj', and not over the vein, with the aid of a pair of for- ceps and a director. If the jugular vein swell up so much as to conceal the parts, pressure is to be made on it at the upper angle of the wound. (See Velpeau, Noiw. Elem. ^c. t. i. p. 241.) Then an eye-probe, or aneurism-needle, is to be conveyed between the vein and artery, and directed innards under the posterior surface of the latter, without meddling with the pnenmogastric nerve, the great sympathetic, or any of their branches. It seems to M. Velpeau, that if the surgeon were to cut at first to the inner side of the mastoid muscle, there would be some risk of mistaking the sterno-hyoideus for it, and getting wrong. ° Pie thinks it better, therefore, to cut down upon the surface of the sterno-mastoid muscle, a few lines from its anterior margin. As the coats of the vein are very thin and easily torn, the knife is never to be applied near it. If the sheath were not duly opened, the pnen- mogastric nerve, situated within its posterior layers between the carotid and jugular vein, might pos- sibly be tied, £}nd the cardiac nerves and descen- dens noni be in d.-niger of suffering the same fate. The ligature of the conunun cartoid above the omohyoideus is rendered easier by the more superficial situation of the vessel, which is merely covered by the skin, platysma, and the cervical fascia. The incision is to commence a little below the level of the angle of the jaw, and be continued down to the extent of about three inches in the interspace between the sterno-mastoid muscle and the larynx, in the upper triangle of the neck 1 he skin and platysma having been divided the cervical fascia is to bo pinched up with a pair of f.irceps, and an opening made in it. Then a director 18 to bo introduced, and the operation finisliod according to the directions alroadv given as applicable to that below the omohyoideus. ' In the operation of applying a lifj„tHre to the