'^'^'^ ERYSIPELAS Collodion has also been used, but the results are not encouraging. We will now sum up the precepts of treatment in a few words. Without denying that cases have happened, or may happen again, in which the sthenic excitement and plethora of the patient may induce the practitioner to draw blood moderately, it must be observed that the cases usually met with refjuire a soothing, supporting, and tonic treatment. In idiopathic erysipelas of the head, the patient must be confined to his room, if not his bed. If there is sickness, foul tongue, and evidence of a loaded state of bowels, he may have a cupful of warm chamomile tea for an emetic ; a grain of calomel, and a little castor-oil or colocynth. If there is no such evidence, and the thing looks like a blight from cold, it is sufficient if the bowels be well opened. If there is pungent heat and thirst, and dry white tongue, the patient may quench his thirst with effervescing saline draughts, ginger-beer, oranges, and lemonade, and live on broth and slops. In other cases, with less strength, wine and soda- water, and beef-tea, fish, or puddings; and in others with a feeble pulse, stupor, dull colour of the enip- tion and decided signs of debility, port wine, or brandy, or (in the case of a Scotch or Irishman) whisky, with good beef-tea, and decoction of bark or quinine, with mineral acid. In most cases some soothing remedy at night is advisable to allay irritation and procure sleep. In the former set of cases, henbane with camphor mixture and Minde- rerus'spirit; in the graver cases, opium or morphia in sufficient doses. In cases of simple erysipelas supervening on wounds, or after operations in hospitals, wine and tonics are indicated. In simple erysipelas, the local applications should be such as make the patient feel more comfortable. The reviser used to see the warm poppy decoction used at Winchester with the best effect. In other cases the patient prefers bathing, with tepid soft water; in others, flour; in others, cotton wool. If the vesications break, an unguent of bismuth and glycerine is recommended. Of course, if there be any fair suspicion of suppuration, a knife should be thrust in. In the phlegmonous erysipelas, at the beginning of shivering and other signs of fever, if there be signs that nature is tending to purify the blood by vomiting or purging of dark bile, an emetic and good dose of calomel with colocj'nth or castor-oil may be given first; always having respect to the use" of these remedies, which is, not to follow routine, nor "lower the system," but to bring away fetid matters from the bowels. If they do this, they do good ; if they bring away inoffensive mucus, they do harm. Then the patient's strength must be supported by good soup and wine, sleep be pro- cured by opiates, and it were better to incise rashly, than to omit incision when needed. How different the fate of those Plymouth Dockyard pa- tients (C. 1.) might have been if free incisions had been practised instead of such cruel and hopeless bleeding. At the commencement soothing appli- cations shonld be made to any wound that is irri- tated. If discharges are fetid, whether from an original wound, or from the erysipelatous sloughs, t^ey should be well deodorised, by solutions of Chloride of lime, or by Condy's disinfectant, and oy the application of bismuth and creosote oint- nient. The spread of chemical education amongst the rising generation of surgeons may result in i saving of human life from these pestilential dis- eases. The incisions should not be permitted to bleed too much, and pressure with strips of lint dipped in turpentine may be used to restrain it if excessive. The liquor cinchoncB cordi/oUa of Battley, is, as the reviser believes, the best tonic, mixed with water acidulated with nitric acid, (bee Abscess Diffiised.) In the cases of diffuse inflammation which arise as local manifestations of pya;mia, the treatment IS the same. The reviser once experienced the effect of the anatomical poison; an inflamed finger, and intense general depression were the symptoms; old, hard, bright sparkling ale (which he cannot think of without gratitude) was the remedy. In the intense and well-marked cases of poisoning, as in puerperal fever, tonics and wine are required from the first. Wherever exudation takes place, hot fomentations should be applied, such as steam- ing bran poultices, sprinkled with camphorated spirits, to localise the malady, and incisions to give vent to the poison. It was well observed by Mr. Stafford, that in every case of dissection wound fol- lowed by diffuse inflammation, in which no incision was made, the result was fatal. Respecting the use of leeches for the relief of pain in the axilla or side, in these cases, although they have the sanction of Sir A. Cooper, and although local depletion stands (as we show in art. Inflam- iuation) on a very different footing from general bloodletting, yet we cannot advise it. The results are not satisfactory; and hot fomentations to encourage suppuration are better. Contrary to the doctrine of the antiphlogistic school, it is a fact in these cases that gangrene is caused by a truly ve- nomous state of the exudation, and "not by mere violence of inflammation. (See Dr. Graves's Clin, Med. Dublin, 1843, p. 576.) In the case of metastasis, stimulants, such as bran poultices, moistened with turpentine, may be applied to the part whence disease has receded, and hot brandy and water and other stimulants be freely supplied. Turpentine in purgative doses is greatly recommended by Dr. Copland, in this, and other apparently hopeless cases. Enemata of beef tea and brandy, as given by Dr. Todd, may also help to turn the scale. Prevention.—Every case, not merely of er3'sipelas, but of offensive wound or fracture.should be isolated; great care should be taken that no effluvia can reach any bed, from closets or the like; bedding should be purified from time to time; the wards should be limewhited; floors should be scrubbed and not wetted; and above all, spoH^csshould be abolished. No sponge used in any suspicious case should be used again; and the house-surgeons and dressers should deodorise their fingers by chloride of lime after dressing such cases. Moreover, operations should not be performed, nor accidents be admitted, during an epidemic of pyremia or erysipelas. Pa- tients can but die Jis they are.] [Erysipelas neonatorum.—The er3-sipelas which attacks neivly born children deserves a special no- tice, if only because it exhibits the causes and alliances of the disease generall)', in their greatest perfection, and because the diminution in late years of mortality from this cause is an encouraging in- stance of the value of cleanliness and ventilation in extirpating disease. It may occur within a very few days afterbirth,