DISLOCATION dent, I saw him. The head was bent backwards, but no dislocation appears to have been suspected. He died in 20 hours. At the post-mortem examination, the odon- toid process was found displaced behind the trans- verse ligament, and compressing the medulla oblongata. The rigiit odontoid ligament was rup- tured, but the left was entire, and was drawn under the transverse ligament. The odontoid process was not displaced backwards to so great an extent as when both odontoid ligaments are torn through and did not exercise so great an amount of com- pression upon the medulla. This slighter debtee of compression would explain the fact of death°not having been, as usual, instantaneous.] Lastly, when the transverse, lateral, and other ligaments are capable of making very great resist- ance to a force tending to rupture them all, and to throw the processus dentatus directly backwards, this process, if more slender than common, may be broken near its base, and this portion of it forced back upon the spinal marrow. A case, exemplify- ing the occurrence, used to be related by Mr. Else m his lectures, and is recorded by Sir Astley Cooper. (On Dislocaiions, p. 348 ; Boyer vol cit. p. 110.) Patients can hardly be expected to survive mis- chief of this kind in so high a situation ; when the transverse ligament is broken, and the processus dentatus is thrown directly backward against the medulla oblongata, the effect must be instant death, as happened in the case recorded by Sir C. Bell {Surg. Ois. vol. i. p. ISO), and in that mentioned by Mr. Else. The causes of this formidable accident are vari ous : a fall on the head from a high place ; the fall of a heavy body against the back of the neck ; a violent blow; a forcibletwist of the neck; tumbling; standing upon the head; the rash custom of lifting children up by the head, &c. Louis believed, that the first vertebra was dislocated from the second in the malefactors hanged at Lyons, at which place the executioner used to give a sudden Iwist to the body at the moment of its suspension, and then bear with all his weight upon it. Under such cir- cumstances, Boyer conceives that the processus dentatus might pass under the transverse ligament, without any rupture of the latter. Perhaps, the only recorded instances of luxation of the processus dentatus, independently of external violence or previous disease, are two ; one noticed by Mr. Cruikshank (See Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. iii.) ; the other by Dr. Wm. Thompson {Edin. Med. and Surgical Journ, vol. xlii, p. 279.) With regard to the prognosis of all luxations in which the processus dentatus is displaced suddenly and not gradually by disease, I may observe, that such cases are mostly fatal. Mistaken notions have been entertained upon this point, in conse- quence of particular dislocations oftiie neck having been successfully treated. [The diagnosis of such cases is always attended with great difiiculty ; indeed, it is only when they have terminated fatallj', and the parts are examined, that positive information as to the nature of the injury can be obtained. Great uncertaintj', therefore, must al- ways attach to those instances in which reduction IS supposed to have been effected.] A child was brought to Desault, with its neck bent,and its chin turned towards the right shoulder, ihe accident had been a consequence of the head having been fixed on the ground, while the feet. were up in the air. A surgeon happened to be with Desau t at the time, and they agreed to make an attempt to reduce the luxation, and to apprise the mother, that though the child might be iured, there was a possibility of its perishing under their hands. Being permitted to do wliat they judced proper, they fixed the shoulders, and the head was gently raised, and gradually turned into its natural position. The child could now move freely • the pam ceased ; and a considerable swelling in the situation of the luxation, yet left, was dispersed by the application of emollient poultices. {.LeveillL Moitvelle Doctrine Chir. t. ii. p. 62.) Another alleged instance of the reduction of a dislocation of the neck is recorded. (Sckmucker's yenmsclde Chir. Schrifian, b. i.) However, both m this case and that related by Desault, it seems probable, that the acdSdent was not a dislocation of the dentata from the atlas, but a luxation of one of the articular processes of a cervical vertebra lower down. [M. Malgaigne relates a case under his father's care, where symptoms of this dislocation were present, but in which reduction was successfully effected by making extension from the head, coun- ter-extension being made from the shoulders. The patient recovered, but remained unable to perform the rotator3r movements of the head. Another case of successful reduction has been recorded by M. Ehrlich. In this case the atlas and head were dislocated hackwards, a most unusual occurrence, of which only one other example has been met with. The head was bent backwards, and is stated to have rested against the right scapula. On the anterior part of the neck, on the left side, was a projection, supposed to be formed by the axis. The patient was paralysed. One assistant was directed to fix the shoulders, while another made extension upon the head. The surgeon, M. Ehrlich, placed the palms of his hands upon the occiput, and, at the same time, pressed with his two thumbs in front upon the projection formed by the axis. After several fruitless attempts, the re- duction took place with a distinct noise, the head resumed its usual solidity, and the arms commenced to move. This patient recovered, with some slight stiffness of the neck. {Ehrlich, Journ. Complement. xxxvi. p. 56, and Malgaigne, loc. cit. p. 334.] When the processus dentatus is fractured, the efl^cts on the medulla spinalis are almost invariably fatal. A case, however, was attended by Mr. Cline, in which the processus dentatus had lost a part of its natural support, in consequence of a transverse frac- ture of the first vertebra, and in which the child survived the accident a year. (See Sir A. Coo]>er, On Dislocations, p. 549.) My friend, Mr. Benjamin Phillips, has favoured me with the following very remarkable case, n more particular account of which has been inserted in the Transactions of the Royal Med. Chir. Society of London, vol. xx. :—" Win. Cross fell from "a li.ayrick to the ground, the occiput first coming in contact with the soil; he was stunned by the acci- dent ;but, in a few minutes, was able to walk to the residence of the parish surgeon, by whom he was bled and purged. In two or three days he , was enabled to resume his usual avocations. " The only inconvenience which succeeded to the accident, was inability to rotate the head ; and for this symptom, three weeks after the acci-