Cured. Amelio- ration. No Result. Deaths. WU/zer's Operation, Males . . 140 Females . 7 117 5 4 6 2 0 0 Mosner's Operation. 34 29 2 1 1 HERNIA. 975 tinctly made out. When the point of the finger has reached the internal opening, it will be placed behind the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, the position of which will be made more evident to the operator by hooking it forward upoa the point of the finger. He will then be sensible of the edge of the conjoined tendon (into which the muscle is inserted internally), at the outer side of his finger (in reference to his own hand), passing downwards behind the canal, to be in- serted with Ginibernat's ligament into the pecti- neal line of the pubes. Next, a stout blunt- pointed needle mounted on a strong handle, witli a well marked curve, is to be passed along the outer border of the invaginating finger, and pushed through the conjoined tendon and internal pillar of the external ring, till the point is seen to raise the skin on the surface of the finger. In this manoeuvre the point of the needle must be care- fully preceded by that of the finger. The skin is then to be drawn inwards and a little upwards, as much as its attachments will allow it to slide, and the point (>f the needle pushed through. A strong smooth hempen thread (well waxed, and then soaped) is then passed through the needle's eye, and the latter withdrawn, leaving one end of the thread in the puncture. The invaginating finger is then passed behind Poupart's ligament, between it and the spermatic cord, as far from the edge of the external pillar of the external ring, and as near to the internal ri; g, as possible. The liga- ment may then be raised forwards towards the surface upon the finger. The needle carrying the end of the ligature which it has before withdrawn, must then be passed along the internal border of the invaginating finger to the deep surface of Poupart's ligiiment, about its centre (midway between the iliac and pubic spines), and pushed carefully through towards the skin. When its ■poitit begins to raise the skin, the latter is to be again slid outwards and a little downwards till the point of the needle appears at the puncture before made: through this the instrument is to be a second time pushed, the loop of the thread seized, and the needle again withdrawn, leaving a loop in the puncture and carrying the free end of the thread. The invaginating finger is then to be again placed on the inner side of the spermatic cnrd, which is to be pushed outwards by it. The point of the finger is then to be pressed against the centre of the posterior wall, so as to push back the conjoined tendon, etc. The thick tendinous structure, formed by the trianguliir ligament and conjoined tendon, will then be felt covering the edge of the rectus muscle on the inner side of the finger, raised by the muscle considerably in relief. Into this the needle is to be next thrust, so as to take up a portion of it about half an inch above the pubic spine, close to its insertion into the pec- tineal line, and external to the border of the rectus muscle, which affords a very plain guide, and pro- tects the peritoneum from injury. By sliding the original puncture in the skin downwards to its utmost extent, tlie needle can easily be passed a third time througli it. The needle is then freed from the ligature and with- drawn. We have, then, passing through the punc- ture of tho skin in the groin, the two ends of the ligature and a central loop. The upper of the cou- Ndlaton comes to the conclusion that in children and in adults up to the age of thirty-five, the pres- sure of a truss should be depended upon for the radical cure of a reducible hernia; but that after this age some operation on the principle of invagi- nation should be performed, or the injection of iodine into the hernial sac be practised. Of this latter metliod he speaks with little confidence, both as to its efficacy and as to the certainty of lodg- ing the iodine solution in the sac, without at the same time infiltrating the cellular tissue by any of the instruments contrived for that purpose. Mr. Wuod''s Method.—The subcutaneous inva- gination of the hernial sac and its coverings, com- bined with a mure definite approximation of the •walls of the inguinal canal, by a more methodical and scientific application of sutures, as suggested by Mr. Wood, requires a detailed description for its proper comprehension, and in justice to that gentleman I transcribe his own account of the operation. {Medico-Chirurgieal Transactions, vol. xliii. p. 76.) *' The pubes and scrotum of the affected side being shaved, the patient should be laid upon his back" with the shoulders raised. The surgeon will find it most convenient to stand on the side to be operated on. The hernia must then be reduced, and held up by an assistant pressing with his fingers over the internal ring. With a small nar- row bladed tenotomy knife, an incision is made to the depth of the skin only, of about three quarters of an inch in length, in the scrotum over the centre of the lower part of the hernial tumor, at least two inches below the spine of the pubes. Then the knife being insinuated flatways between the skin and fascia, is made to separate the former from the latter all round the edges of the incision, over an area of at least two inches in vertical by one and a half inch in transverse diameter. This, from the loose attachment of the skin at this part, is easily done. The knees of the patient should next be drawn up towards the abdomen, and held together 80 as to relax the structures connected with Pou- part's ligament. Then the forefinger of the opera- tor is passed through the opening in the skin and made to invaginate the detached fascia through the external ring into the inguinal canal. This will bo most effectually done by using the right hand for the right side and vice vcrsd. The operator should endeavour to commence the invagination of the fascia from as low a point as the external incision will admit, so as to push the finger as much as pos- sible between the sac of the hernia and the sperma- tic cord, which should at the same time be put on the stretch by traction upon the testis with the disengaged hand. The invaginating finger should be made to reach the internal opening of the hernia. ^ u j jci t "The position of the spermatic cord, lying above ends passes through the upper"part"of \'he and behind Poupart's ligament, can then bo dis- j joined tendon, where the fibres of the oblique