230 ANEURISM. lations of blood may be formed, as in the common spuiious aneurism." A concurrence of two circumstances is requisite for the production of an aneurismal varix : 1. The puncture in the vein, and that in the artery, must be exactljf in the same direction ; 2. The sohition of continuity in the integuments and upper side of the vein must heal, while the wound in the deeper side of that vessel, and the puncture in the upper surface of the artery, remain open, and communi- cate so readily that the arterial blood finds greater facilitjr in entering from the artery into the vein, than in being effused from the artery into the sur- rounding areolar tissue. If one of these two circumstances be wanting, either because the wounding instmment has entered the urtery a little obliquely from the vein, or be- cause the vein has not been sufficiently near to the artery, on account of the areolar tissue be- tween them, the arterial blood most frequently does not produce the aneurismal varix ; or, if it does, the disease is always complicated with effu- sion of arterial blood into the areolar tissue, or with an aneurism and aneurismal varix at the same time. In this case, the small aneurismal sac serves as a short canal of communication between the artery and the vein {Med. Facts and Obs. vol. iv. ]), 115) ; two distinct diseases, in fact, being formed from the same cause, and placed one over the other, viz. an aneurism and an aneurismal varix. {Scai-pa, p. 421, ed. 2.) The following marks of distinction between aneurism and aneu- rismal varix are pointed out by the same author; the aneurismal varix always forms a circumscribed tumor ; aneurism does not always do so. The areolar tissue, which constitutes the sac of the aneurism, does not always resist so strongly the impetus of the arterial blood as the coats of the vein do. Not unfrequently, therefore, aneurism, from being circumscribed at first, becomes dif- fused; extends along the course of the wounded artery ; compresses strongly the surrounding parts; occasions iicute pain and inflammation; and the parts are threatened with gangrene. On the con- trary, the aneurismal varix is always circumscribed, increases very slowly, does not produce much pain, and as it augments it always extends more or less above or below the place where venesection has been done; and this extension is in proportion to the greater or less force with which the arterial blood is thrown from the artery into the vein, .ind the greater or less resistance made by the valves sitiuited in the vein below the puncture; and according to the greater or less number of veins communicating with the aneurismal varix. The seat of the disease is generally the basilic or median basilic vein, which appears dilated in an unusual manner, forming an oblong tumor of the size of a walnut, if the disease is recent. In the centre of the swelling is the cicatrix left by the lancet. The voin IS less dilated the further it is from this scar; and, in general, at the distance of two inches and a half above and below this point the vessel re- sumes its natural size. The small tumor, as has been explained, pulsates like an artery, with a tre- mulous motion and hissing noise, which is some- tiuu's so great that the patient cannot sleep, if he is lying with his head low, and resting on the in- jured arm. The trunk of the brachial artery, from tlu; axilla down to the place where it has been wounded with the lancet, vibrates with extraor- dinary force. There is no change of colour, nor inflammation of the skin ; and the pain is incon- siderable. The swelling is compressible and yield- ing ; but it returns as soon as the pressure is re- moved from it. "When the arm is kept for some time raised up towards the head, the tumor di- minishes ; and the same thing happens when pres- sure is made on the communication between the artery and vein, or when a tight tourniquet is ap- plied near the axilla. If the disease be complicated with aneurism, a second pulsating tumor will be found lying under the aneurismal varix. {Scarpa, p. 424, ed. 2.) A simple aneurismal varix is gradual in its form- ation, never attaining a considerable size, and never exposing the patient's life to danger by the ra- pidity of its increase, or a tendencj'- to burst; but, if it be a less serious disease in these respects than a consecutive false aneurism, it does not, like the latter, present any chance of a spontaneous cure, and its duration is perpetual. However, after it has acquired some size, and the veins have become exceedingly varicose, the patient complains of numbness and weakness of the limb, diminution of its temperature ; and there is a bluish, or some- what purple, discoloration of it, which Breschet ascribes to the passage of some of the venous blood into the artery, and to there being a smaller quantity of scarlet blood conveyed by the artery into all parts beyond the tumor. (Mem. Chir. SUV Dijferentes Especes d'Ancur. p. 102.) It is generally believed that only the blood of the artery leaves its proper vessel; but, according to the investigations of M, Breschet, at the same time that arterial blood passes into the veins the artery itself receives a certain quantity of venous blood. The symptoms, he observes, demonstrate this during life, as well as the examination of the parts after an operation on the -tumor: it is also proved by the appearances of the vessels in post mortem examinations. {Bresclmt, Mem. sur Dijfe- rentes Esyeces d'Aneuri/sines, p. 100.) After relating two cases, illustrative of the na- ture of aneurismal varix, Dr. W. Hunter proceeds to inquire, " Why is the pulse at the wrist so much weaker in the diseased arm than in the other? — surely the reason is obvious and clear. ^ If the blood can easily escape from the trunk of the ar- tery directly into the trunk of the vein, it is natural to think that it will be driven along the extreme branches with less force, and in less quantity. " Whence is it that the artery is enlarged all the way down the arm ? I am of opinion, that it is the consequence of the blood passing so readily from the artery into the vein, and is such an ex- tension as happens to all arteries, in growing bo- dies, and to the arteries of particular parts when the parts themselves increase in their bulk, and at the same time retain a vascular structure." (See Med. Obs. ami Inq. vol. ii.) This explanation is not deemed by Breschet altogether correct. M. Breschet has endeavoured to give a more particular and precise explanation of the changes which tlio vessels and adjacent textures undergo, and the ef- fects of the communication between the arteries and veins. In consequence of the artery receivuig ve- nous blood, the flow oftiiis fluid througli it becomes slower, and the pidsc weaker. The artery itself di- lates throughout its whole extent, a fact long ago noticed by Morand ; its tunics grow thniner, and become nearly as soft and flaccid as those of n vein.