540 backwards, and it is usually attended with less difficulty than the dislocation of both bones. M. Malgaigue describes a remarkable case, in which the ulna was dislocated backtvards and oiU- tvards behind the radius, but in which the ulna was so placed, that the greater sigmoid cavity was directed outwards, and the coronoid process pointed outwards and forwards. The reduction was readily effected, the patient being placed under the influence of chloroform, by slight extension from the wrist, combined with pressure upon the displaced ulna in the appropriate direction. (Loc. cit. p. 631.)] 6, Dislocation of the radius forwards. —■ The radius, the moveable agent of pronation and su- pination, rolls round the ulna, by means of two articular surfaces; one above, slightly convex, broad internallj', narrow outwardly, and corres- ponding to the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, in which it is lodged; the other below, concave, semi- circular, and adapted to receive the convex edge of the ulna. Hence, there are two joints, differing in their motions, articular surfaces, and ligaments. Above, the radius in pronation and supination only nioves on its own axis; below, it rolls round the axis of the ulna. Here, being more distant from the centre, its motions must be both more extensive and powerful, than they are above. The head of the radius, turning on its own axis in the annular or coronary ligament, cannot distend it in any direction. On the contrarj', below, the radius, in performing pronation, stretches the posterior part of the capsule, and presses it against the immoveable head of the ulna, which is apt to be pushed through, if the motion be forced. A similar event, in a contrary direction, takes place in supination. The front part of the capsule being rendered tense, may now be lacerated. In the dislocation of the head of the radius for- wards, this part is thrown into the hollow above the external condyle, and upon the coronoid pro- cess of the ulna. According to Sir Astley Cooper, the fore-arm is slightly bent, but cannot be bent to a right angle, nor completely extended. When it is suddenly bent, the head of the radius strikes against the fore part of the os humeri. The hand is in the prone position, and, if rotated, the cor- responding motion of the head of the radius can be felt at the upper and front part of the elbow joint. A depression can be felt posteriorly in the situation normally occupied by the head of the radius. The coronary or annular, the oblique ligament, the front of the capsular, and a portion of the interosseous ligament, are torn. [One symp- tom, mentioned by Malgaigne, but unnoticed by any other writer, is an oblique inclination outwards of the fore-arm. This obliquity increases, and per- haps partly ficcounts for, the ascent of the radius in front of the exteriuil condyle.] Sir Astley Cooper refers the cause of this acci- dent to a fall upon the hand, when the arm is ex- tended; in which event the radius receives tlie weight of the body, and is forced up by the side of the ulna, and thrown over the external condyle upon the coronoid process. It has also been caused by falls on the elbow; and by traction upon the hand while in a condition of supination. Sir Astley Cooper has seen six examples of the dislocation of the head of the radius forwards. And the accident, although denied by Boyor, is now well known to be of tolerably frequent occurrence. DISLOCATION. [Mr. Bransby Cooper met with a case which was complicated by a fracture of the radius about an inch and a half below its head, a circumstance which at first occasioned some doubt as to whe- ther or not the projection in front of the joint was formed by the head of the radius, since upon ro- tating the hand no motion of the tumor could be perceived. An incomplete dislocation of the radius forwards also sometimes occurs. This partial displacement was noticed by Hippocrates, andM. Malgaigne be- lieves it to be the most frequent of all the displace- ments to which the radius is subject. It occurs most frequently in very young children, from trac- tion on the hand to prevent the child from falling; but it has been noticed also in adults from falls' upon the hand or upon the fore-arm. The fore- arm is slightly flexed, the hand is pronated, and supination is impossible without causing severe pain. The displacement varies in extent; usually the pro- jection of the head of the radius may be felt in front, and a corresponding depression posteriori)-. The depression may perhaps be felt when the pro- jection forwards is so slight as not to be distin- guished, in consequence of the greater thickness of soft parts in front than behind. The partial dislo- cation may occur without rupture of the coronary ligament, as in one case in which M. Malgaigne had an opportunity of examining the joint after death. He has met with it twice in infimts at the breast; and he refers to one instance where it was observed in a newly-born child, which the motlier, who was delivered in a carriage without assistance, had al- lowed to fall at her feet (loc. cit. p. 648). M. Bourguet has published as many as seventeen examples of this partial dislocation observed by himself. (See Rev. Med. Chir. 1854, t. xv. p. 287. See also Goyrand,Gaz.Mtd.¥6h.\8il.) The latter surgeon also regards this partial dis- placement as tolerably common, since in tlie period of eight years he met with as many as ten instances of it. Reduction.—To reduce the complete dislocation, the fore-arm should be placed in the supine position; extension should then be made upon the radius by pulling upon the hand ; counter-extension being ap- plied above the elbow. The extension is made upon the hand rather than on the fore-arm, because f applied in the latter situation, a considerable por- tion of the force exerted would be uselessly ex- pended upon the ulna. When sufficient extension has been made, the reduction n\a.y be completed, by the surgeon pressing directly upon the head of the radius, to push it backwards into its place.] Sometimes the reduction is attended with much difficulty. In two of the cases recorded by Sir A. Cooper it could not be accomplished ; in tlie third, it was eft'ected during a syncope, by extending the fore-arm, while the olecranon rested on Sir Ast- ley's foot. In the fourth, the patient was placed on a sofa, and his arm bent over the back of it, in which state extension was made from the liand, xuithout iucltuliny the ulna. The sofa fixed the os humeri, and the reduction was accomplished in a few minutes. The chief things to be observed are, to let the extension act upon the radius alone, without the ulna, and during the extension toilet the hand be supine. {Dislocations, p. 474—4/ 7.) Sometimes, when the bone has been replaced, there is great difficulty in retaining it in its position ; when this is the case, the fore-arm should be kept