EAR. 593 cle small and narrow, ns sometimes liappens, one should not hesitate to cut it off. This method is preferable to tying its base with a ligature; a plan which could not be executed without dragging and seriously injuring the dura mater ; and the fatal effects of which I saw exem- plified in one case that occurred many years ago in St. Bartliolomew's Hospital, and was operated upon by the late Mr. Ramsden. Excision is also preferable to caustics, which cause great pain, and very often convulsions. In performing the extir- pation, we should remove the whole extent of the tumor, and, if possible, its root, even though it may extend as deeply as the internal layer of the dura mater. This step must not be delayed, for the disease will continue to increase, so as to aifect the brain, become incurable, and even mortal. It is to such decision that we must impute the suc- cess which attended the treatment of the Spaniard Avalos, of whom Marcus Aurelius Severinus makes mention. The above nobleman was afflicted with intolerable headachs, which no remed)!- could ap- pease. It was proposed to him to trepan the cranium, an operation to which he consented. This proceeding brought into view, under the bone, a fungous excrescence, the destruction of which proved a permanent cure of the violent pains, •which the disease had occasioned. It is not men- tioned in this case whether the internal layer of the dura mater was healthy or not; but there is foundation for believing, that if the extirpation of these tumors be undertaken in time, and bold measures be pursued, as in the instance just cited, success would often be obtained. Indeed, reason would support this opinion; for, when the disease is not extensive, it is necessary to expose a much smaller surface of the dura mater. It appears to me, however, that trepanning can never be warrantable, unless the disease be indi- cated by some external changes. I saw my late master, Mr. Ramsden, trepan a man for .a mere fixed pain in one part of the head, on the sup- position, that there was a tumor under the bone ; but no tumor was found, and tlie operation caused inflammation of the dura mater, and proved fatal. No doubt, in some cases, the hBemorrhage will be considerable, as was exemplified in the instance in which Walther made an incision at the base of one of these fungi, in order to ascertain its nature : two pints of blood being lost from several vessels of large size ere they could be secured ; and the further use of the knife discontinued. M. Louis has described other tumors, which grow from the surface of the dura mater, when this membrane has been denuded, as after the applica- tion of the trephine. They only seem to differ from the preceding in not existing before the open- ing was made in the skUU. Tumors of the dura mater should not be confounded with hernia cerebri. (See this Article.) See, on the preceding: subject, M^m. sur les lumeurs, fongueuses de la Dure-M6repar M. Louis. I.tJ^?''"?- I'Acad. de Cbir. t. v. 4to. Encyclop^die Meibodique, Partie Chir. art. Dure-Mfere. J P Kaufmamu de Tumore Capitis fungoso post Cariem Cranii exorto. Helmst. 1743. Lass'.is, PatholO"-ie Clur. t 1. p. 497, ed. 1809. J. and C. Weuzel, iiber die Schwarami^en Auswuchse auf der aussern Hirn- Pol- Mainz. 1811. Ph. V. Waltlier, in Journ. tur Chir. von C. Grattfe, &c. b. I. p. 55, c. 8vo. Berlm, 1820. Professor Chelius, in Archives de MM Mars. 1832. For inflammation of the dura mater, see Head Injuries of. ' ^JNAMOMETER. An instrument, employed by M. Malgaigne for measuring the degree of ex- tension made with pulleys in the reduction of dis- locations. (See AT^j. de I'Acad. R. de Med. t. v. p. 143.) _ It will serve also to measur-e the force exerted in kthotrity. E JAR, DISEASES OF. An organ, so valuable and necessary to the perfection of our existence, as the ear, should have all the resources of sur- gery exerted for the preservation of its in- tegrity, and the removal of the diseases, with which it may be affected. What, indeed, would have been our lot, if nature had been less liberal, and not endued us with the sense of hearing ? As Leschevin has observed, we should then have been ill qualified for the receipt of in- struction ; a principal inlet of divine and human knowledge would have been closed ; and there being no reciprocal communication of ideas, our feeble reason could never have approached perfec- tion. Even our life itself, being as it were depen- dent upon all such bodies as surround us, would have been incessantly exposed to dangers. The eyesight serves to render us conscious of objects which present themselves before us, and, when we judge them to be hurtful, we endeavour to avoid them. But, to say nothing of our inability to look on all sides at once, our eyes become of no service to us, whenever we happen to be enveloped in darkness. The hearing is then the only sense that watches over our safety. It warns us, not only of every thing which is moving about us, but likewise of noises which are more or less distant. Such are the inestimable advantages, which we derive from this organ. Its importance, when healthy, makes it worthy of the utmost efibrts of surgery, when diseased. (See Mid. sur les Siijels proposes pour le Priw de I'Acad. Royal de Chirur- gie, t. ix. pp. Ill, 112, ed. I2mo.) It is not many years since the diseases of the ear were a subject, on which the greatest iirno- rance and the most mistaken opinions prevailed- and, indeed, how could any correct pathological information be expected, while anatomists had not given a complete and accurate description of the organ itself? Also, notwithstanding what has now been made out respecting disorders of the ear and that within the last twelve or sixteen years the knou lodge of them has nearly equalled that of the eye, it IS generally admitted that they still require much further investigation. Though Duvernev, Valsalva, Morgagni, &c. dispelled some of the darkness which covered this branch of surgorv tliey left a great deal undone. Since their tiine' science has been enriched with the valuable dis- coveries of Cotunni, Meckel, Scarpa, and Com- paietti ; the two first of whom demonstrated that the labyrinth is filled with a limpid fluid, and not Q Q