CIS and insinuates itself between it and the pleuni costnlis. The lung collapses in proportion, and the place winch it naturally occupied, when dis- tended, IS now occupied by the air. When, in expiration, the dimensions of the chest are every- where diminished, the air, now lodged in the sac of the pleura, cannot get back into the aperture in the collapsed lung, because this is already full of air, and is equally compressed on every side, by that which is confined in the thorax. Were there no breach in the pleura costalis, this air could not now become diffused; the muscles of inspiration would next enlarge the chest, remove the pressure from the surface of the wounded lung, more air . would be sucked out of it, as it were, into the space between the pleura costalis and pleura pulmonalis, and this process would go on, till the lungs of the wounded side were completely collapsed. But, in the case of a fractured rib, or narrow stab, in which there is also a breach in the pleura costalis, without any free vent outward for the air which gets out of the lung into the cavity of the pleura, as soon as the expiratory powers lessen the capacity of the chest, this air, not being able to pass back through the breach in the collapsed lung, is forced through the laceration, or wound, in the pleura costalis, into the cellular tissue. It is through the communicating cells of this structure that the air becomes most extensively diffused over the whole body, in proportion as the expiratory muscles continue in their turn to lessen the capacity of the chest, and pump the air, as it were, through the breach in the pleura costalis, immediately after it has been drawn out of the wound of the lung in inspiration. (See John Ball, On Wonvds of the Breast, and Halliday, On Em- physema, 1807.) When organised adhesions exist between the pleura costalis and pleura pulmonalis, so as to establish a continuity of textures between the sur- face of the lung and the parietes of the chest, the comprehension of the mechanism of emphysema is, as Dupuytren remarks, assuredly perfectly simple. The air then passes directly from the interior of the lung into new-organised cellular texture, and thus gets through the parietes of the injured side into the subcutaneous cellular tissue. When there are no adhesions, a part of the air escapes, during inspiration, from the opening in the surface of the lung, and then becomes diffused in the surrounding textures and the cavity of the pleura. Thence it is forced in all directions, as Bupiiytren conceives, both by the alternate move- ments of expansion and contraction of the chest in respiration, and by the effect of its own elasticity ; and it is made to enter progressively the cellular tissue of all the internal and external organs. Thus, if the quantity of air drawn out of the lung is considerable, it pnssesnotonly into the parictesof the chest and belly, the iipperand lower extremities, the interior of the scrotum, the neck and head, but also into the cavity of the pleura, the two medias- tina, the pericardium itself, and even into the in- terlobular cellular tissue of the lungs themselves. Dupuytren, in Clin. Chir. t. i. p. 11 ;5. 119.) _Jn some cases, emphysema is the principal disorder ; in others, it is only one of s condary importance, and. sometimes not readily ascertained. An example, illustrating this fact, is given by Diipuv- tren, where the upper fragment of u bn.ken sternimi nad penetrated the pericardium, and torn the right EMPHYSEMA. ventricle of the heart ; and where a considerable quantity of bloody serum and of black blood itself was eftused m the right cavity of the pleura; the fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs broken sand thei; car! Wages separated from the sternum. (II, p i-^n ) A case, published by M. Littre, well illustmWthe enormous distension of the cellular tissue occasion- ally produced : on the chest, the swelling was eleven ■nches thick ; on the belly, nine ; on the neck, SIX ; and four on other parts. (See Mim de I'Ac J. des Sciences, 1713.) To prove that the confinement of air in the chest 18 the cause of the dangerous symptoms attendino' emphysema, Hewson adverts to the histories of some remarkable cases, published by Littre, Mery W Hunter, and Chestnn. (See Mem. de VAcad lioyale des Sciences /or 171 3 ; Med. Obs. and In- qmries, vol. ii. ; and Pathological Inquiries.) The same eminent man made several experiments on animals, tending to prove that air in their chests produced great difficulty in breathing, such as occurs in emphj^sema ; and, in one case, which he examined after death, air was actually discharged on puncturing the thorax. _ While none of the symptoms denote the exten- sion of emphysema to internal organs, and the quantity of air does not exceed a few cubic inches, the patient is not in danger, so far as this disorder IS concerned. But the case is very different when the air has passed not only into all the subcutane- ous cellular tissue, but also into that of the internal organs of the chest, and even those of the abdomen ; and when, besides such distension of the cellular tissue generality, there is likewise an accumulation of air in the pleural cavity. (See Dumwtren, Clin. Chir. t. i.p. 112.) The passage of air as a complication of fractures, or penetrating wounds of the chest, occurs not only in the subcutaneous or intermuscular cellular tissue, but in any region adjacent to the air passages or cavities. M. Carre' has published an instance of air ascending the nasal duct, and rup- turing one of the lachrj-mal canals, when the patient blew his nose. (See Mem. de Med. Milit.) One case of emphysema of the eyelids from a presumed fracture of the horizontal plate of the ethmoid bone, or OS unguis, and another from a supposed lacera- tion of the pituitary membrane, used to be related by Dupuytren in his lectures. He also gives the particulars of an emphysema of the temporal region from a fracture of the frontal sinus. In all these examples of emphysema from injury of the upper parts of the respiratory apparatus, tile surgeon will notice, in addition to 'the crepitation, &c. a sudden increase of the swelling whenever the patient coughs or blows his nose. (Vol. cit. p. 1-23—130.) Here the treatment consists in the application of cold astringent lotions, and the avoidance of every- thing calculated to make the air escape through the breach into the cellular tissue. The object of Mr. Hewson's paper is to recom- mend making an opening in the chest, for the pur- pose of giving vent to the air confined in that cavity, just as is done for the discharge of pus, in empyema, or of a serous fluid, in hydrops pectoris. In wounds of the lungs, says this author, whe- ther occasioned by fractured ribs, or other causes, when S3'mptonisof tightness and suffocation come on, so far should we be from dreading the emphy- soniatoiis swelling of the cellular tissue, that we should rather consider it as a favourable symptom,