; BLOOD, COAGULATION OF, DURING LIFE. 324 to the absorption or development of the noxious material, so that, although the natural alltalinity may be temporarily diminished, the liquor sangui- nis is prevented becoming neutral or decidedly acid. Nevertheless, this circumstance occasionally happens. Dr. Prout found acid blood in a man who died in St. Bartholomew's Hospital with en- larged liver and spleen, the cavities of the heart and adjacent vessels being enormously distended with clots, and the blood coagulated throughout the body. The clots had a loose texture, and consisted, almost equally, of a red and a nearly colourless portion intermixed and adherent to each other ; the latter being of a bright, light, lemon-yellow hue, and soft and opaque, somewhat resembling baked custard ; the former much softer and looser, the greater part of a dingy, chocolate- brown tint, with a broken-down appearance. Some of the large veins were as if filled with pus ; the substance of the brain being extremely vascular, and its vessels containing a fluid of the same nature. This blood was acid, Dr. Prout never having " even heard of acid blood before ;" the acid re- sided chiefly in the custard-looking substance,which possessed most of the properties of albumen, but Dr. Prout could not make out its nature; it was not hydrochloric, phosphoric, nor any other fixed acid. Scherer found the blood acid, repeatedly, in puerperal fever. He states that it contained free albumen instead of albuminate of soda, so that the acidity was due to a free acid, and lactic acid was separated from the exudations. Lehmann thrice observed an acid reaction ; in a case of pyeemia affecting a man, and in the blood of two women, one six the other ten weeks after delivery. {Physiol. Chem. vol. i. p. 97.) A tendency to acidity in the blood would appear sometimes to be attributable to an arrest of those transformations in which amylaceous matters are converted through lactic acid into carbonic acid and water, or to the development of oxalic acid, or the non-elimination of lithic acid. Acids ab sorbed or developed enter into combination with the normal constituents of the blood, as the carbo nate or basic phosphate of soda ; they diminish the alkalinity of the secretions and of the system generally; hence, they may produce morbid secre tions from the kidneys and skin, and diseases of these organs. As remedies they are useful wiiere there is an excess of alkalinity in the blood and secretions, and injurious in an opposite condition, and may produce lithic acid deposits. Tiie deve- lopment of an acid in hajmatosis, or a failure of this process in maintaining the necessary degree of alkalinity, or the absorption of an acid in primary or secondary assimilation, is not only connected essentially with the production of rheumatism, gout, gravel, vesicular and pustular cutaneous eruptions and other affections, but may result in the formation of coagula in the heart or vessels during life, and an arrest of the circulation of blood, and is very probably the immediate cause of death in some cases. Alkalies and alkaline salts tend to counteract the acidity of the secretions by neutralising the acids in the blood. (See Bi.ood, Co.VGULATION OF, DUllING LIFE. BlOOD, PaTHO- 1.0GV OF. LiTUIASIS, OxALiEMlA.) Henry Ancall. [ nLOOD, AN HYDRO U'&.—Insinssatcd Blood. —-Choleraic Blood.}— [A large quantity of water, with albumen and salts, being drained through the alimentary canal in cholera, the blood left in the vessels is of high specific gravity, and often con- tains more than double the usual proportion of solid constituents ; in which state it is dark, thick and viscid, often presenting the appearance of tar or treacle. This state increases as the disease pro- gresses, and although the red corpuscles may remain intact, and susceptible of aeration, the production of animal heat is arrested, the blood ceases to be ca- pable of circulation, its flow through the capillaries fails, and it accumulates in the heart and large vessels. On joosi ?Korte»i examination, at St. Mary's Hospital, we found this blood dark and treacly, but becoming cherry red on dilution, and there were extensive coagula throughout the venous system. Colourless fibrinous clots occurred in the right aui'icle and ventricle, and mixed clots in the pul- monary artery, the internal and external iliac and femoral veins, all down the lower extremities to the smaller ramifications of the tibial veins about the ankles, and in the brachial veins about the elbow joints. (See Blood, Coagulation of, du- ring LIFE.) This anhydrous state must not be regarded as the essential morbid condition, since the salts are drained off. The blood also contains urea in excess, and the proportion of fibrin has been found to be reduced. An excess of organic and plastic materials in the blood, and a deficiency of water, may result from too great repletion, profuse watery discharges, as in the colliquative sweats of phthisis, and from other causes, and often requires the attention of the surgeon, more especially in the treatment of inflammations and febrile attacks ; but it constitutes a part only of more complicated pathological states treated of in various articles in this Dictionary. (See Blood, Pathology of. Hyperinosis. Plethora.)] Henry Ancdl. [BLOOD, COAGULATION OF, DURING LIFE.]—[That organised growths and fibrinous concretions, formerly known as"polj'pi," may form in the heart and blood-vessels duringlife, was pointed out by Morgagni, and confirmed by Haller, Corvi- sart, Laennec, Andral, Hope, Baron, and others. But great difficulty has been met with in deter- mining the natm-e of these substances, and in dis- tinguishing between coagula formed in the blood at the period of, or subsequent to, death, and those produced in various diseases so as to occasion symptoms, or to become the immediate cause of death. Their bearing and importance in practical surgery have not been generally appreciated, but the recent observations of Dr. Hughes, Mr. Paget, Dr. Kirkes, Dr. Richardson, and other writers of our own .and foreign countries, have developed some important fiicts, and very much extended our views on the subject generally. There arc three pathological conditions to be distinguished: 1. Organised growtlis, to whicli the term ;)o/j//«, formerly employed, was most applicable, occur in the heart, in the form of warts, vegetations, or poly- poid masses ; sometimes more or less nearly filhng one or more of the cavities. They are firmly ad- herent to the valves or walls, are vascular, and may exist for years. They sometimes appear to have taken their origin from a pathological cli.-mge in the lining membrane, as irritation and the con- sequent deposit of fibrin, rendermg it nigged. When formed they may be the cause of a further deposit from the blood by their mechanical action,