658 EYE. and pain in the globe, ^yith loss of vision, occa- sioning great distress, and preventing the use of the other ej'e, or showing a constant tendency to severe relapses. 5th. Cancer; deep-seated dis- ease of the globe, the result either of accident or of deep-seated inflammation, with disorganisation of all the structures, in which the other eye ex- hibits symptoms of sympathetic affections, threat- ening gradual failure of sight. I am anxious, says Mr. Critchett, to explain and to illustrate each of these groups, and to show my reasons for performing this operation. 1st. In some of the more severe cases of sta- phyloma, where the entire globe is enlarged, the sclerotic thin, and the deep-seated vessels, both in the choroid and retina, much dilated, it is found that the ordinary operation of opening the globe is liable to certain rather serious incon- veniences. When the humors have escaped, the vessels, deprived of the support to which they have been accustomed, give way, and rather profuse and protracted hseraorrhage often takes place, which first painfully distends the globe and then escapes through the lids. This is usually followed by severe inflammation and suppuration of the globe, which continues many weeks, is attended witli very severe pain, and often leaves a considerable enlargement, which is prone, from time to time, to take on inflammatory action. In such cases, I am of opinion, that the removal of the globe is a far milder operation than opening it in the usual way for the operation of staphyloma. 2nd. I have now to consider those cases in which the presence of a foreign body is suspected in the globe, and is out of sight and out of reach, but produces pnin, and sympathetically affects the other eye. In such cases I believe the removal of the globe is the best proceeding. I have also performed this operation in two cases of extensive adhesion between the globe and the lids. The one case was a girl, aged fourteen, whose eye had been extensively burnt with lime. The lower lid was completely adherent to the globe, and the upper lid was partially ad- herent; the entire rows of lashes of both eyes were turned in upon the globe, causing constant severe distress and preventing the use of the other eye. The operation perfectly relieved all the symptoms and deformity, and was, I believe, the only effec- tual means that oflfered. Extensive separation of the globe from the lids had been previously tried, and had quite failed. 3rd. I have now to consider, in the last place, those cases of deep-seated disease of tlie globe, the result either of acci- dent or of idiopathic inflammation, with disor- ganisation of all the structures, in which the companion eye exhibits sj'mptoms of sympathe- tic affection, threatening gradual failure of sight. The idea upon which this operation is founded, and which, I am free to admit, requires for its con- firmation a large mass of evidence, takes its origin in the well-known sympathy that existsbetweenthc two eyes; in the symmetry of disease in these organs; in the frequent observation that when one eye has been destroyed, either by accident or disease, the other sooner or later becomes seriously compro- mised. The important problem to resolve is, how far the one is the result of the other. In those cases that result from accident, there can be litUo doubt of the close connexion between the two; in those resulting from disease, this is, perhaps, not quite so clear. The removal of the globe has been until a recent period regarded as a very severe and repulsive operation; and such a remedy may be considered by some as somewhat heroic and hardly justifiable except in very extreme cases. If, however, we divest the inquiry of all preconceived prejudice, and carefully examine the naked facts of the case, how does it stand ? Even suppose, for the sake of argument, that there is no truth in the idea that incipient disease in one eye may be so far depen- dent upon and connected with a disorganised con- dition in the other, that the removal of one sus- pends the disease in the other, still the operation may be useful. It is proposed to remove a part that is only termed by courtesy an eye, for it has forfeited every claim to that appellation: it is a mere bag distended with water, and containing, per- haps, some fibrinous and chalky debris, without any remains of that delicate nervous membrane to which the optical machine is subservient, and without a vestige of that function for which the eye was created. It is the seat of a slow inflammatory action, and forms a nidus for the sudden lighten- ing up, at any moment, of acute disease, and is in itself a constant source of trouble. Surely it is no very cruel or unjustifiable act towards a patient to remove, by a safe and speedy operation, an organ that has lost its characteristic appearance, has ceased to perform its functions, and is a constant source of suffering, when its place maybe artificially supplied BO as to produce a much more satisfactory appearance than the diseased globe presented. If, however, we superadd to these considerations the possibility of removing incipient disease in the other eye, or even of arresting it at the point where we find it, the arguments in favour of the operation obtain an immense accession of strength, and a new element is introduced into the pathology and treat- ment of certain forms of eye-disease. Since writing the above it has occurred to me that it may be objected to the views that I have endeavoured to set forth, that there is a large mass of cases constantly coming before our notice in which one eye has been lost, either from injury or disease, without the other sustaining any kind of diunage. This circumstance does not, of course, invalidate the equally well-observed fact, that in manj' cases the second eye docs suffer; but it seems, at first sight, to stand in curious antagonism to it, and requires some explanation. It has often engaged my careful attention, and after much ob- servation I am inclined to think that it will be found that in those cases in wliich the second eye remains sound and healthy no disease is going on in the lost eye; it is in a perfectly quiescent state. On the other hand, wherever the second eye is be- coming involved, the disorganised globe, whether from traumatic or idiopathic causes, is in a smoul- dering state, and breaking out, from time to time, into active disease. It maj' also bo objected to the views I have been endeavouring to set forth, that there seems no rea- son why tlie removal of a diseased globe sliould be followed, not only bj' arrest of disease in the other, but also by perfect recovery of its function. After all, the chief court of appeal must be to ex- perience and to well-observed facts, whicli nro at present necessarily seantj', from the short time that lias elapsed since the operation was suggested. At the same time it appears to be in accordance with analogy, that the removal of a serious source of