Liaiidage, and supporting the am in a sling. A careful readjustment of the apparatus will be ne- cessary every third or fourth day. However, the exact maintenance of the reduction, by any ap- paratus whatever, is found to be a matter of tlie greatest difficulty, and some slight deformity will remain, though it is agreeable to know that, not- withstanding this disadvantage, the use of the limb returns very well. [Mr. South says, that in all the cases he has met with, and he has found the injury not unfre- quent, he has never been iible by any contrivance to keep the bone in its place, and has therefore given up the attempt, and only endeavours to keep it at rest, so that it may form new connections on the scapular spine. (See Note to Trans, of Chelius, vol. i. p. 780.) For a full account of the various plans which have been proposed and practised by different sur- geons for maintaining the reduction of this disloca- tion, the reader is referred to M. Malgaigne's ela- borate work. The most simple, and probably the most likely to prove effectual, is that suggested by M. Malgaigne himself. It consists of a strap about two inches in breadth, furnished at one end with a buckle. The buckle being placed in front, opposite the patient's breast, the band is passed under the elbow, carried upwards behind the shoulder, and over the dislocated clavicle to be fixed to the buckle in front. Below, to retain this band near the elbow, a small piece of bandage is passed round tlie arm just above the elbow-joint, and sewn to the strap in front and behind. Above, to prevent its slipping off the shoulder, a second band or strap is fixed to the first just behind the shoulder-joint, brought round the trunk on the • sound side, and fixed, by a second buckle, to the anterior part of the first strap just above the elbow. Com]presses, placed under the strap, may be used, if necessary, to increase the pressure upon the projecting end of the clavicle. M. Malgaigne says he has employed this apparatus a considerable number of times, and has obtained easily what he desired, — a TeAudhn almost complete. The time necessary for the consolidation of the joint appears to be about thirty days, and the apparatus must be worn for this period. Galen suffered from this accident in his own person ; he wore very tight bandages for forty days, and was cured with scarcely any deformity.] [Dislocation doivnwards.—The possibility of this accident was denied by Boyer, nevertheless three authentic instances have been placed on record. The subject of the first was a Russian soldier, in whom the accident had occurred when he was only six years old, and was caused by the direct pres- sure of a heavy weight upon the shoulder. The parts were dissected by M. Melle, in ]7(jS. The external extremity of the clavicle was buried bene.nth the acromion, which covered it completcljr. The inferior surface of the acromion and tlio supe- rior surface of the clavicle wore covered with car- tilage, and surrounded by a new fibrous capsule. The coraco-clavicular ligaments had been ruptured and no trace of them remained. (See Mdte, Nova Ada Med. Pkys. 177.3, t. v. p. 1, and MaUjaiqnc, loc. cit. p. In 181G a second case 'was seen by M. Floury, in a man fct. 50, two montlis after its occurrence. The left clavicle had been luxated downwards and backwards, and was placed between the acromion and the coraceid process, DISLOCATION. 517 resting upon this latter, and upon the upper border of the scapula, where it had formed a new joint. Although the dislocation was not reduced, there was no interruption to the movements of the shoul- der or of the arm. {Fleury, Journ. Universal, t. iv. p. 144 ; &ndL Malgaigne, loc. cit. p. 448.) The third case was seen by M. Tournel in 1847. It occurred in a soldier, who had fallen from his horse, and the animal in rising had trodden upon the an- terior part of his shoulder. The clavicle appears to have passed outwards beneath the acromion sufBciently far to project beyond its outer border ; for it is stated that the shoulder presented two pro- minences, one internal and superior formed by the acromion, the other external and inferior formed by the outer extremity of the clavicle. The shoulder had lost its rounded form, and was approximated to the sternum. The injured limb was longer than the opposite. Voluntary movement, especially in an upward direction, was impossible, but the com- municated movements were free and without pain. The reduction was effected by placing the knee be- tween the shoulders, and drawing them backwards* and the bone was kept in its place at first by De- sault's bandage, afterwards by an apparatus con- trived by M. Flamand. The cure was complete in thirty-tAvo days, and it was ascertained some time afterwards that no traces of the accident remained, either in the conformation, or in the functions of the limb. (See Tournel, Archives Gen. de Med. 1837, t. XV. p. 463; and Malgaigne, loc. cit. r> 448.)] ^ [Dislocation under the Coracoid Process. — This accident was unheard of until M. Godemer, of Ambneres, published in 1843 five instances of it, collected in the space of five years. A sixth has smce been published by a M. Pinjon. The cause assigned is a fall on the anterior part of the shoul- der. The clavicle appears to have become placed beneath the coracoid process, and its outer extre- mity, which was indistinctly felt, is stated to have been lodged m the axilla. The coracoid process and the acromion were unusually prominent under the skin. M. Godemer reduced these dislocations by having the shoulder forcibly drawn backwards' and outwards by an assistant, and then with his fingers dislodging the clavicle from beneath the co- racoid process. Desault's bandage for fractured clavicle was employed to maintain the reduction. No other instances of this dislocation have beeii subsequently met with. (See Malgaigne, loc. cit p. 4.50.) Simultaneous Dislocation of both eatremiUes of the Clavicle. — One instance of this accident has been met with by M. Richerand. It was caused by a fall on the shoulder from a considerable heiirht The external extremity of the clavicle was displaced upwards and backwards, the internal extremitv upwards and forwards. Desault's bandage was applied, with compresses upon the dislocated ex- tremities of the bone. By this means the reduc- tion of the external dislocation was eftcctuallv maintained, but the inner extremity remained dis placed. Nevertheless the patient appears to have soon recovered a very tolerable degree of movement ofthehmb. {See Journ. I/eUlom. t. ii. \ a",] ,> 78.)] . P- Dislocations of the Shoulder-joint. Nature, which varies according to the neces- i^itics of different animals the number of tiieir L I. 3