308 BLADDER. the niuseuliir fibres in a state of rest a sufficient length of time for them to recover from the injury they have suffered. Accumulation of urine, there- fore, in any quantity must be carefully prevented. The catheter should be introduced at regular inter- vals, or be retained altogether in the bladder. The latter plan is perhaps the more effectual,as it enables the patient himself to regulate the escape of urine as soon as it begins to accumulate ; but it is at- tended with the risk, that the point of the instru- ment may irritate, or even cause ulceration of, the interior of the bladder. In many cases, the patient can be easily taught to introduce the in- strument himself as often as he requires it. The contractile power may be completely regained in a few days, or it may only be recovered by very slow degrees, that is to say, it may take weeks or even months. If the affection has been caused by a sudden attack of retention, recovery may generally be expected ; but in old persons with prostatic enlargement the prognosis is less favour- able, partly because the mechanical obstacle which has been the cause of the complaint will continue in operation, but partly also on account of the ad- vanced period of life and feeble powers of the patient. A tonic plan of treatment will often prove very beneficial. Quinine ; steel, and especially the tinc- ture of the sesquichloride of iron ; small doses of the tincture of cantliarides, and, in some cases, strychnine, may be employed with advantage. In addition to this, some assistance may be obtained from counter-irritation, by means of a blister over the sacrum. Paralysis of the bladder in old persons, inde- pendent of any other disease, was formerly con- sidered a very common affection. Desault and Boyer, and the late author of this Dictionary, thus regarded it. M. Mercier, on the other hand, has denied the correctness of this opinion, and attri- butes the symptoms to some obstruction existing in the prostate at the neck of the bladder. These contradictory views are partly reconciled, if we remember that obstructions at the neck of the bladder may, as already explained, be the cause of paralysis, by producing over-distension ; but the reader will find the subject further alluded to in the article Urine, Retention op. In the same place will also be found additional informa- tion on the subject of retention from paralj'sis, and on the retention caused by the simulated paralysis of hysteria.] Bladdeh, Puncture of. The makingof an artificial outletforthe urine is an operation to which we are sometimes obliged to have recourse, after having in vain employed all the other means indicated for the prevention of the bad, and even fatal, consequences of a stoppage of the evacua- tion of this fluid, and distension of the bladder. Va- rious accidents and diseases, both acute and chronic, may occasion this dangerous state, as will be more particularly noticed in the article Ujune, Reten- tion OF. At the present day, however, the artificial outlet is not so frequently made by puncturing thi^ bladder, as by opening the distended part of the membranous portion of the urethra, behind the stricture. I'he bladder, which can conveniently hold about a pnit and a half of urine, is no sooner dilated, so as to contain two pints, than uneasy sensations are experienced. Tlic desire of discharging the water now becomes urgent, and if the inclination be not gratified, and the bladder he suffered to be dilated beyond its natural state, for a certain time, it loses all power of contraction, and becomes paralytic. The desire, indeed, continues, and the efforts are renewed m painful paroxysms ; but, the power is lost, and the bladder becomes more and more distended. When this viscus is dilated to the utmost degree, and neither its own structure, nor the space in the abdomen, can allow a further distension, either the bladder must be lacerated, which it rarely is, so equally is it supported by the pressure of the sur- rounding parts, or its orifice must expand and the urine begin to flow. Afterthe third day of retention, the urine often really begins to flow, and whatever descends from the kidneys is evacuated in small quantities from time to time, and at this period, the bladder is distended in as great a degree as it ever can be, however long the patient may survive. This dribbling of the urine, which begins when the blad- der is dilated to the utmost, and continues till the eighth or tenth day, or till the bladder sloughs, has long been understood, and is named by the French, " Reieniionpar rigorgemenU" To practitioners who do not understand it the occurrence is most deceit- ful. The friends felicitate themselves, that the urine begins to flow ; the surgeon believes it; basins and cloths wet with urine are easily produced; but the patient lies unrelieved. The continued distension of the bladder is followed by inflammation of it and the peritoneum. The insensibility, and low delirium of incipient gangrene, are mistaken for that relief which was expected from the flow of urine, till either hiccough comes on, and the patient dies of fever and inflammation, or the urine gets into the abdomen through an aperture formed by mortification. Let no surgeon, therefore, trust to the reports of nurses and friends, but lay his hand upon the hypogastric region, and tap with his finger, in order that he may distinguish the distended bladder and the fluctuation of urine. As the bladder suffers no further distension after the third day, why should it burst ? Not fron» laceration, for it is supported by the uniform pi-es- sure of the surrounding viscera ; not b)' yielding suddenly, for it is distended to its utmost on the third day of the retention, and j'et seldom gives way be- fore the tenth ; not by attenuation, for it becomes thickened. The term (aceration w.as never more wrongly applied than in this instance ; for when there is a breach in the bladder, it is found, on dissection, to be a small round hole, such as might be covered with the point of the finger. The rest of the viscus, and the adjacent bowels, are red and inflamed, while this single point is black and mor- tified. Delay is more dangerous than even the worst modes of making an opening into the bladder ; and, while life exists the patient should have his chance, {^ee John BeWs Principles o/ Suiyert/, vol. ii. part 1, p. 262, &c.) That many patients die after paracentesis of the bladder is an undoubted truth, and this circumstance has rather intimidated practitioners against the operation. It appears to niP, however, that in general death may be more fairly ascribed to the effects of the disease than to the puncture of the bladder, ajid that, if the making of an outlet for the urine, in some way or another, were not deferred so long as it often is, the recoveries would be more numerous. Hence, when relief can- not be obtained by the treatment described in the article UiilNE, RisrENTioN oi"; when no urine at all has come away for three days, and nocatliiter can