925 HEAD, INJURIES OF THE own experience extends, we confess our inability to determine this point. Many cases of concussion occur in whicli insensibility is prolonged, and in which slow but imperfect recovery takes place; and in such cases a suspicion arises that the brain is more or less bruised, but the positive proof is wanting, and the question must still remain unde- cided, whether the condition is attributable to simple concussion, or to bruise of the cerebral sub- stance, or to slight pressure. M. Sanson paid great attention to this subject at the Hotel-Dieu, and his views are ably set forth by M. Boinet in the Archives Generales de Medecine for May 1837. That the brain occasionally suf- fers bruise without fracture of the skull, is admitted by all .surgeons, and the extent varies according to the severity of the injury. In some cases the effects of the bruise are confined to the sub- arachnoid cellular tissue and the pia mater ; in others the cineritioiis substance is the seat of injury, whilst the bruise may extend or even be confined altogether to the white fibrous portion of the brain: in either of these cases the appear- ance of the bruise, if confined to a single spot, be- comes gradually less evident towards the circumfe- rence of the bruised part. In some cases minute spots of extravasated blood are found disseminated in various parts of the brain, whilst in others the cineritious and medullary substances are wholly broken up. Mr. Hewett states, in reference to the situation of the bruise, " that out of thirty-six cases of bruised brain, accompanying fractures ex- tending from various parts of the vault into the base of the skull, the upper surface of the hemi- spheres was bruised in five cases only." He fur- ther states, " The base of the brain is the part most frequently injured; but, even here, the va- rious regions differ widely in this respect. The posterior lobes are rarely injured, the anterior ones frequently, and the middle lobes the most fre- quently of all. Out of the thirty-six cases I have mentioned, the posterior lobes were bruised in four instances only, the anterior lobes in eighteen, and the middle lobes in twenty-five. In twelve of these cases the anterior and middle lobes were bruised at one and the same time." There is some difference on this point in the result of the examinations of M. Fano, who found the anterior lobes more frequently bruised than any other part of the brain; but he only gives the analysis of eight cases. {HewelCs Lectures, op. cit.) The explanation of this circumstance offered by Sir Benjamin Brodie, in his paper in the Med. Chir. Transactions, vol. xiv. p. 324, is quite satis- factory. " A blow on the head may cause a rupture of the tender substance of the cerebrum or cere- bellum, and hemorrhage into the cavity of the dura mater. These cases generally afford examples of the contre-coup. The rupture of the braiu rarely takes place at the exact spot on which the blow is inflicted; and the great irregularities which exist on the inner surface of tlio base of the cranium sufficiently explain why the inferior is more liable to be ruptured than the superior surface of the brain." It must be remembered, neverthe- less, that all the cases referred to are cases attended with a fatal result, and it is possible that, if an analysis of others terminating favourably could be formed, some modification of the opinion might be neceasary. Symptoms of Contusion, — According to M. Boinet, after the signs of concussion have passed off, the patient, remains to a certain extent de- void of consciousness, his breathing being slow but regular, and not stertorous; his extremi- ties, which have not entirely lost their sensibi- lit}', are violently or sometimes feebly con- tracted; he either refuses to answer all questions, or his answers are given without reference to the questions put to him; he is in a constant state of agitation, and his movements are of an epileptic character. In some cases the pupils are dilated", in others contracted: a discordance of the pupils is occasionally observed. There is no involuntary dis- charge of urine or faeces. M. Boinet considers these signs, in the absence of stertor, as diagnostic of contusion of the brain, and he especially dwells upon the epileptic contraction and constant agita- tion, as characteristic of the disease. These signs come on either at a short interval of time from, or immediately after, the accident, and are liable to be mixed with those of concussion, or, in the event of a large effusion of blood, with compression. If the extravasation be of great extent, the symptoms of contusion are then masked by those of pres- sure; but where only sligh t effusion of blood takes place, the symptoms of contusion, notwithstanding, will still manifest themselves in the constant jacti- tation of the patient, and an evident disposition to evade any questions put to him. In some cases of contusion consciousness re- mains, but the patient is imable to express himself in answer to questions he fully understands, and he therefore makes use of signs and gestures to render himself intelligible. In others there is a difficulty of enunciating a proper name or any par- ticular word, and an incapacity to complete a sen- tence already begun except by paraphrases. Of this we shall adduce an example from Sanson "A carpenter of the name of Martin, ased thu-ty-two, was brought to the Hotel-Dieu, in con- sequence of a fall upon the head from the height of twenty or twenty-four feet. Blood flowed from his ears and nose. On his admission his limbs were contracted, and he was in a constant state of ao-ita tion, turning himself in all directions; he retanied his consciousness, but would only answer questions in interrupted phrases; he had lost the recollection of substantive words; and when asked of what trade ho was, he could not pronounce the word ' carpenter,' but when this word was mentioned with four or five others, he fully comprehended what was said, and with a motion of his head o.\- pr'essed the aflirmative when the right trade wag mentioned, though he could not pronounce the word " On the second day after his admission, the left side of his face, which corresponded to the side of his head injured, became paralysed, together with the superior extremity of the same side- lie lost the power of speech; his agitation mid the epileptic movements increased. He died seven days after his admission, never having lost his consciousness or sensibility. " On examination after death, a contusion of the middle lobe of the right side of the brain was found, with a superficial effusion of blood over the bruised part." These signs are supposed to indicate the most severe form of contusion, but they are modified in milder cases. Thus a continued pain in the head may be the only symptom present, and ]ience, 'in