'32 FRACTURE, coccyx and lower patt of the sacrum will probably be felt, and if there is displacement forwards of the lower fragment the finger may be used to press it back into its proper situation.] When the violence has been such as to make it probable that it has extended its effects to the pelvic viscera, every means in the power of art must be adopted to prevent and alia}' inflamma- tion. Leeches should be applied to the vicinity of the sacrum, and bleeding from the arm should, if it appears necessary, be practised. Any difficulty, either in the expulsion or retention of the urine and fa;ces, will likewise claim immediate and con- stant attention. (See Urine, Retention of. Incon- tinence of, ^c.) With regard to the particular means for promoting the union of the fractured sacrum, quietude is the most important; and is in most cases the only treatment necessary. [If, however, the lower fragment should project forwards to a painful extent, and appear likely to .produce inconvenience, and if, after it has been reduced by the finger in the rectum, the displace- ment should recur, it might be advisable to apply permanent pressure from within by means of some substance, such as a pessary, introduced into the rectum. Treatment on this principle has been practised in France in two cases, by MM. Judes and Bemond, and with sufficient success to afford encouragement for further trial, should the exigen- cies of the case seem to require it. (See Mal- gaigne, op. cit. p. 638.) Mild laxative medicines, or eneniata, should be given to render the action of the bowels as gentle and free from irritation as possible.] Fractures op the Os Coccygis. Though much slighter than the sacrum, it is less frequently broken, because less exposed to external force, and capable of a degree of motion, by which it eludes the effects of violence. But, in elderly persons, in whom the different pieces are connected by ankjdosis, a fall on the buttock, or a kick, may fracture this bone. The accident is known by the movableness of the fragments, and the acute pain produced when the thighs are moved, and the act of defsecation, the fragments being then disturbed by the action of the external sphincter, gluteus maximus, and coccygeus. The treatment of fractures of the coccyx consists in enjoining quietude. If the lower portion of the bone project forwards it may be replaced by the finger introduced into the rectum, but all attempts of this kind should be made with great gentleness, as the soft parts are not in a state to bear much handling without ill effects. The patient should avoid walking about, as this would put the gluteus maximus muscle into action, and disturb the broken bone. He should refrain from lying upon his back, or placing himself in a sitting position. [The recovery from this accident is sometimes very tedious. Mr. South mentions two cases, in both of which it occupied a period of nearly two years. Great relief was obtained, and a cure at last effected, by constantly wearing a pair of tliick oblong pads on the ischial tuberosities, so that the coccyx was protected from all possibility of pres- sure in the sitting position. (See Translation of Chelius, note, p. 543, vol. i.)] Fractures ov the Ossa Innoriinata Are generally produced by the passage of tiic wheels of heavy carriages over the pelvis, falls from great heights, the kicks of horses, &c., and are always attended with considerable contusion of the soft parts, and sometimes with great injury of the pelvic viscera. The anterior superior spinous pro- cess of the ilium is sometimes broken off by the kick of a horse. I have seen several examples of fracture of the pelvis by gunshot, some of which were accompanied by injury of the bladder or rectum. The two ossa innominata may be broken to- gether ; but commonly only one of them is thus injured. Most frequently the fracture takes place in the upper expanded portion of the bone, known under the name of the ilium, though sometimes it happens either in the ischium, or the os pubis. The solution of continuity may be limited to one part of the bone, or extend to several parts of it; and there may be a greater or lesser number of fragments, and these attended, or not, with dis- placement. In many instances, in which the pelvis has been violently jammed between two bodies, or run over by a heavy carriage, the bones of the pelvis, besides being fractured, are dislo- cated, some interesting examples of which accident are recorded by Sir A. Cooper. {Surgical Essays, part i. p. 49, &c.) Fractures of the ossa innominata are unavoidably attended with more or less contusion of the soft parts; and when the violence has been very great, the pelvic viscera may be seriously bruised, crushed, or lacerated, and the large nerves contained in the pelvis, or the spinal marrow itself, injured: hence, extravasation of blood or urine in the cellular tissue of the pelvis; ecchymosis deeplj- situated ; injury of the kidneys ; complete loss of motion ; paralj-sis of the lower extremities; discharge of blood, or a black bilious matter, by vomiting or stool, either immediately or at more or less distant periods from that of the accident; retention of urine; fever ; painful tension of the abdomen from inflam- mation of the peritoneum and bowels; the forma- tion of abscesses, which are sometimes of great extent; sloughing ; and death. (Boycr, Mai. Cliir. t. iii. p. 154.) As the same author has observed, the violence, occasioning a fracture of the ossa innominata, may produce a displacement of the fragments, and carr}"- them more or less away from their natural situation. AVhen the os pubis, or ischium, is broken, the splinters may be propelled into the urethra, or even througii the bladder, and give rise to extravasation of urine; or by merely com- pressing these organs, they may cause more or less interruption of their functions. But, unless the fragments be displaced by the same force which caused the fracture, they can liardlj' bo drawn out of their place by any other circum- stance, since they ore retained bj' the muscles attached to both fragments, and by surrounding ligamentous expansions. Owing to the deep situation of fractures of the pelvis, and to there being generally no displace- ment nor mobility of the fragments, the diagnosis is sometimes attended with difficulty. A suspicion ■ of the accident may be entertained when the pelvis has suffered considerable violence, the patient e.ic- periences great agony, and all motion of the trunk and lower extremities is difficult and painful. If tiie fracture should be in the ilium, especially its upper and front portion, or in the os pubis, the