vol. ii.) the pain occasioned by a bite in the leg was referred to the hip and loins, without any affection m the inguinal absorbents. {Mcdico- Chir Trans, vol. i. p. ISC.) Of the accuracy of the foregoing statement by Dr. Marcet there is no [doubt; the observation, however, in regard to the irritation not affecting the absorbents, was long ago anticipated by several authors, who urged the freedom of the lympliatic glands from disease, as au argument that the disorder did not depend upon the absorption of any virus. It is also noticed by others who inchne to the belief in the absorption of the infectious principle :—" Resorptionera virus ope systematis lymphatici fieri verisimiilimum viJetur; neque tamen nec vasa lympliatica, nec glandulcB viciiias stimulo morboso, vel tuniore adfici videntur, quod in aliis resorptionibus virulentis fieri solet." (Culhsen, Syst. Chirurgim Hodiei-na.\o\. i. n. 595 [In three eases, only, we find it recorded that the lymphatics were inflamed. The most exceptional case IS that recorded by Mr. Abernethy, who noticed two red lines extending up the arm, appa- rently inflamed absorbents; and in two other cases the glands above the wounded part were found in a swollen state when hydrophobia commenced. {G. Pinkard, Lond. Med. Repository, 1015 Dr Urbane, Bill. Prac. Heilung. 1827.) Exceptions so rare, in so large a mass of cases, tend only to prove the general rule. Nevertheless, some differ- ence of opinion has arisen as to the mode in which this subtle poison of rabies is absorbed, and the channel by which it is conducted through the system. Briefly to sum up long discussions, the questions raised are these:—Is the poison received immediately, or does it lie long latent in the sys- tem ? Is the blood, are the nerves, or are the l}-mphatic vessels conductors of the poison ? Vol- tohni ingeniously opposes the theory of the rapid absorption of the virus into the human organism which Hecker {Rust. AUiandlitng, cjc. 2a bd. s. 345) supports. Hecker held that the poison re- mained innocuous until excited into action by an outbreak of hydrophobia; but it is sufficiently ob- vious that the outbreak of the hydrophobia must follow the activity of the poison. The comparison of the poison of rabies to vaccine matter is not very logical, since the cases in which the activity of the latter is deferred are very rare and abnormal; while with the hydrophobic poison, unlike all other animal poisons, the venomous action is normally spread over weeks and months. Voltolini finds an analogue for the deferred action of this germ of hj'drophobia in the deferred activity of the ovum which recent researches on generation have de- monstrated Sabatier suggests that it undergoes changes while in the wound which fit itforabsorn- tion. (Z, £/«/o«, 28, 1056.) Fabor thinks that it becomes encysted by a pathological process in the blood, until excess or some mechanical influence force it into activity (!) {Zur Geschichte der Wui/i- hranhhcit, Wurt. C'orr. lilatl. 1051.) Wittcke points out {Pr. Ver.-Zcit. 29,30,1057) that a latent poison IS not necessarily localised, that it might long have existed in the blood without being called inlo .activity. But when it is remembered that cauterisation of the wound, even after six weeks has seemed to have a good effect in protecting the system, the balance of probability will rest with the opinions held by Voltolini and Sabatier. The precureoiy symptoms have been noted witJi HYDROPirOBIA. 1057 great care by Netten Radcliffe, in his valuable collection of 103 cases, and by Lewis Smith, to whose papers the reader may be referred for an interesting and minute detail. It may suffice here to say that, in addition to the local symptoms of pain, pricking, uneasiness, stinging and tingling sensations in the wound, together with the chano-cs in the aspect of the cicatrix already described there were general symptoms in the great majority of cases, which indicated the approach of the true hydropliobic stage. The sensations generally passed from the cicatrix towards the central parts. In one case, only {C. Damon, London Med. Gazette, 1849), the patient complained that the prickin<^ sensation rushed to the tips of his fingers. In thirteen cases was recorded, in the preliminarv stage, general malaise; twelve, irritability; twent/ restlessness; nineteen, drowsiness; fourteen, chilli- ness; five, feverishness; eleven, languor; five anorexia; six, some affection of respiration, by sobbing, sighing, &c.; seven, difficult degluti- tion; one, excitement of the venereal passion. In nearly all cases the general indisposition, combined with the local pain at the cicatrix, sufficed to in- dicate the approach of the hydrophobic condition which they ushered in. Voltolini, however, records a case m which the precursory symptoms were mistaken for those of rheumatism. The above symptoms precede the second statro or that of decided hydrophobia, by a period °of time varying from a few hours (eight cases) to several weeks (one case); but averaging most com- monly from twelve hours to two days.] The second stage of hydrophobia commences with the first manifestation of the dread of liquids. The ungovernable agitation and dis- tressing sense of suffocation, excited by the si-^ht of liquids by the attempt to drink, or even the mere idea of drmking, is imquestionably the most re- markable symptom of the disorder. The patient IS also frequently attacked with the same kind of commotion and suffering from other causes, such as he east agitation of the air, or exposure to a strong light. Indeed, some patients are so much affected by a blast of wind, that they have been known to endeavour to elude it by walking with their backs towards It {Hist, de la Soe. Roy. de Med. p I57) while others scream out whenever the window or door of their room is opened. {Morgagni, De Sed. et Cans. Morb. Epist. viii. No. 28.) [The most terrible sufferings of the patient, and those which make the disease most distressinrr to the feelings of the beholder, are paroxysmal in character. _ The spasm affects chiefly the muscles of deglutition, and especially also those of resoir-i tion. It 18 difficult to say which are the muscles" engaged in this action. The muscles of the thi-n-.f the chest, the thorax, and the abdomen, have been especially observed to be .affected. Some nhv,! cians have thought that the diaphragm was also attacked. The extrem ties are exen,?,t, biU opis! tliotonos and eniprosthotonos have been noted Ii no authenticated cases wore fluids tolerated so that the disease, contrary to the opinion of sonm IS well iiaiued hydrophobia. In thirteen cases 1,« mere thought of liquids, in thirty-five the sight of them, and in sixteen the sound produced by sniasb mg, produced paroxysms of convulsion terrible to" see. Tepid drinks could more easily be swall wed than co d; tins ,3 a point worthy of no.e. Not even BoluU could bo swallowed in most cases. In 3 Y