GONORRHCEA, elm bark; infiisions of catechu or of kino, of hiemn- toxj'lon, a solution of tannin from 1 to 2 drachms to a pint ot water, or of a strong decoction of walnut We'^ceedingly well, either alone or with the addition of some of the above-named metallic salts. The common injection for females at the Lock Hospital consists of oak bark, to which is added sulphate of zinc in the proportion of 6 grs. to the ounce. Should these injections fail to arrest the discharge, the direct application of the sulphate of copper or of the nitrate of silver to the surface of the vagina may be had recourse to. In applying these caustics, the speculum should be used, and the vagmal surface should be slightly cauterised from behind, forwards, as the speculum is being withdrawn. This should be done once every two or three days, and the application should be so made that the cauterised surfaces should alternate with the portions of the mucous membrane not re- ceiving the caustic, so that, if possible, on removing the speculum no two cauterised surfaces should come m contact. Another efficacious plan of treatment, when the ordinary measures fail, is to secure the separation of the diseased surfaces of the vagina from each other; this is eifected by plugging the%a- giiia with lint or charpie after the passage has been well syringed with some of the above-named astrin- gent injections, or after the caustic has been applied as above recommended. The plugging should be re- moved and replaced daily. To facilitate the removal of the plugs, some surgeons attach pieces of silk or twme to the dossils of lint or charpie previous to their being introduced ; these are to be brought out at the vaginal orifice. I am myself satisfied with the use of long strips of lint, without threads attached, which are readily removed by the aid of the common dressing forceps. The bivalve spe- culum is the most convenient instrument to use for the purpose of introducing the strips of lint, or portions of charpie. In obstinate or chronic cases, the surgeon will often derive advantage from the internal administration of bark; of steel; the mineral acids, or of other tonic remedies combined with a more generous diet, and the moderate use of wine and other stimulants. Uterine Gonorrhoea.—The inflammation attend- ing a gonorrhoea will occasionally extend from the vagina and os uteri to the interior of the neck and body of the uterus; rendering the affection obsti- nate and tedious, resisting all the ordinary modes of treatment. This afi'ection will be readily dis- covered by examination with the speculum. A peculiar glairy tenacious mucus will be seen, filling the cervix and os uteri, and depending from these into the vagina, and which is removed with diffi- culty on account of its extreme tenacity. Granu- lar, or superficial ulceration of the os uteri is not an unfrequent accompaniment of this aifection. rhe treatment here required is to remove the tenacious mucus, so as to allow the injections or caustic to come into immediate contact with the diseased surface. This object is best efl'ected by injecting from a largo syringe, through the bivalve speculum, previously introduced, and by deterging the OS uteri with dossils of lint, held by an appro- priate forceps. When the mucus is completely removed, the nitrate of silver should be apphed to _t le ulcerations on the os, if any exist, and should ■ISO be introduced into the cervix uteri. This iieatment should be repeated every third or fourtli •'3,but not during nor close upon a menstrual period. On the intermediate days, common in- jections may be used by the patient herself two or three times daily, in order to remove the vaginal discharge, which is certain to ac- company the uterine aifection. When, in spite of this treatment, the glairy discharge persists, the interior of the body of the uterus may be suspected as participating in the diseased action. Under these circumstances, the surface of the attected membrane must be reached. This must be done, however, with extreme caution. A narrow tube, fitting loosely in the neck of the uteres, may be mtroduced, and a small syringe, holding half an ounce only, should be attached to it. By an instrument of this kind a small quantity of an astringent lotion may be brought in contact with the mucous lining of the body of the uterus. The piston should be suddenly depressed, to allow the injection to pass out by jets, but of not more than a drachm at a time, and free egress should be allowed for the fluid by the side of the tube. Even with these precautions severe symptoms of abdomi- nal pains, with chills and feverish symptoms, will occasionally follow injections into the uterine cavity. The great danger to be guarded against is the possibility of the injection entering into the Fallopian tubes, and from thence into the peritoneal cavity. Of the metallic salts, the sulphate of zinc, the sulphate of copper, or the nitrate of silver, of the strength of 1 gr. to the ounce, or a weak solu- tion of a vegetable astringent, may be used for these intra-uterine injections. Urethral Gonorrhoea. — The urethra may be aftected by the disease in the female, but its occur- rence is considered exceptional. The symptoms which accompany urethral inflammation resemble those in the male. Itching followed by pain in the urethra with scalding on micturition are expe- rienced. The urethral orifice may be seen to be swollen and inflamed, and the Avhole course of the canal is felt to be thickened by digital examination. A purulent discharge will exude spontaneously, or may be made to appear by pressure exerted on the urethra frombehind forwards. If the bladder become affected frequent desire to urin.-ite is superadded to the other symptoms, but retention of urine is sel- dom present. A similar treatment to that adopted in the male subject may be had recourse to. The preparations of copaiba and cubebs will be equally efficacious, and injections may be used, but they are generally dispensed with on account of the shortness of the canal and the close proximity of the bladder, which render it difficult to inject the one without the other. On this account some surgeons prefer cauterising the urethra with the nitrate of silver; this is, however, seldom neces- ^ sary, the balsamic remedies acting with sufficient promptness and certaint}\ It should be borne in mind that urethral gonorrhoea is rarel}' found as an isolated complaint in the female; vulvitis or vaginitis will be usuallj' found accompanying it, and they will of course require their appropriate treatments. The inguinal glands not unfrequently inflame and enlarge, but rarely suppurate in female urethritis. Rectal and Anal Gonorrhcea.—From the position of the vulva and anus and the shortness of the intervening perinreuni, the discharge escaping from the former must frequently come in contact with- the latter, especially in the recumbent posture; not- withstanding this unfavourable proximity, it is