^■^^ GUiNSHOT WOUNDS Zl'l^:^!! ttl'frV' ^"^""f the operation with better prospects of success than if he had not been brought under its influence; but, as I have already mentioned, some one or two surgeons who Had obtained considerable experience in operative surgery in the field, were impressed with the be- lief that It had deleterious effects when employed Qiiring the depression ensuing upon severe in- jury, although their objection, I believe, did not extend to its use in other cases. (See Pro- ceedinys of the Army Medical and Stirgical So- ciety, Lancet, July 19, 1856, p. 78—80.) In the cases detailed in support of this view, there ap- pears to be a want of careful discrindnation be- tween the effects of chloroform and the depression consequent on very dangerous operations, super- added to extensive injury and copious heemorrhage. lliere can be no doubt that many of the tedious and painful operations, such as excision of joints were much more readily, carefully, and safely per- tormed in the passive condition of the patient in- duced by the agency of this drug, than if the operator had had to contend with the writhing and convulsive movements of the sufferer; and the ab- sence of pain during the operation, and generally lOT some time after the return of consciousness, must place the patient in a better position for re- covery than if he had undergone the exhaustion consequent upon the agony and excitement of the operation. Such certainly appeared to me to be Its effects in all the operations I myself performed or witnessed by others, and these views are con- firmed by the French, and by the large majority of the English army surgeons. We must not, how- ever, be insensible to, or undervalue, the dangers arising from its use ; great caution should be ad- opted in Its administration, the recumbent posture should be especially enjoined, and a watchful at- tention kept up, both with regard to the pulse and respiration, as well as to the sufficient supply of atmospheric air to the patient during the inhala- tion. In these cases, where much blood has been lost, this caution becomes even more necessary, owing to its rapid absorption in such persons. _ It seems hardly necessary to combat the objec- tions put forward by some, that it favoured secon- dary hcEmorrhage, and that its employment led to the production of pya!inia, as alleged by others : no sufficient proofs have been established to war- rant such inferences. " In the prolonged searches which are sometimes necessary for the extraction of foreign bodies, chloroform is useful, not only in preventing pain,' but also in restraining muscular contractions, by which obstacles are thrown in the way of the ex- traction, which did not oppose themselves to the introduction of the body. Then much is gained in field practice by the mere avoidance of the patient's screams when undergoing operation, as it fre- quently happens that but a thin partition, a blanket, or a few planks, intervene between him who is being operated on, and those who wait to undergo a like trial. Thus, when, as after a general '■ngagcment, a vast number of men come in quick succession to be subjected to operation, it is a point of great importance to save them from the depression and dread which the screams and groans ot their comrades necessarily produce on them." UVlacteod, Notes on tlie Sunjery of the War in the .C™«ea,p. 134-5.)J Geo. E. Blenldns. • Alphnm Ferrarius, Da Sclopetonim, sive ArcLi busorum Vulneribus, &c. 8vo. Uoms isso t i,' Rota Ve Bellicorum Tormentarlorun^uinerib^is et* Cuiatione, 410 Bonon. 1555. ZJoi'a?to, De Curat Vulner 1565. Wm. Voice's Approved TreaUse for all youi^ Chirurgians concerninV Burnings with & powder and Wounds made with Gunfho &c X' Inin 'i^'ercetanus, Sclopetarius, sive de curandis Vulneribus qua; Sclopetorum et sim lium Toi memi rum Ictibus acciderunt, 8vo. 1591, 12mo. Le?ps 16 4 r^yTh T?^;- ■^".■i (^''esne. Traits de la Cure G6n6. rale et Particulifere des Arcbusades, Paris, W^i j PToorfa , Viaticum, fol. Lond. 1639. R. Wiseman Chi J'a I^T inflexions t r^es de la Pratique sur les Places i 'F^^S a feu, 2e id. 12mo. Paris, 1740. Desport Traits des Plaies d'Armes i feu, 12rr,o. Parisfrng. fn^H*/.^^''*^'^^ or treating Gunshot Wounds,'l2mo Lond. 1781. Obs. sur les Plaies d'Armes a fea, com- pliqu^es de Fracture aux Articulations des Extr^mi- tes, ou au Voisinage de ces Articulations, par M. Boucher, in M^m. de I'Acad. de Chirur<!-ie t v p. 279, ^d. in 12rao. Obs. sur des Plaies d'^'Armes a feu, compliqu^es surtout de Fracas des Os, par 1/ Boucher, in opere cit. t. vi. p. 109, &c. f^d. in 12mo' Obs. sur les Plaies d'Armes a feu : 1. Sur un Coup de i^usil, avec Fracas des deux Machoires: par M Cannae: 2. Sur une Plaie d'Arme a feu traversant la Poitniie d'un c&t6 a I'autre ; par M. Gerard: 3. bur une Plaie d'Arme a feu, pdndtrant depuis la Partie ant^rieure du Pubis jusqu'a I'Os Sacrum • paril/. Andouilld: 4. Sur une Jambe ^cras.€& par un Obus, ou petite Ltonibe, par M. Cannae: 5. Sur une Ilaie a la Partie inf(<rieure et interne de la Jambe, (aite par un Eclat de Grenade, sans Fracas d'Os ■ par M. Cannae : 6. Pr(5cis de plusieurs Observations sur lea Plaies d'Armes a feu en diff^rentes Parties, par M. Bordenave ;—aU these papers are inserted in M<5rn. de I'Acad. de Chir. t. vi. in 12rao.; and in t. xi. of the same edition are inserted M^m. sur le Traite- ment des Plaies d'Armes a feu, par M. de la Marti- mere, et Memoires sur quelques Particularit^s con- cernant les Plaies faites par Amies a feu, par lil. yacher. M. Faure's Memoirs relative to Amputation 111 Cases of Gunshot Wounds may be seen in t. viii -cf the Recueil des Pieces qui ont concouru pour le Prix de I'Acad. de Chirurnie, ed. in 12mo. John Hunter's Treatise on the Blood, Inflammation, and Gunshot Wounds, Palmer's edition, 1837. Rich- fer, Anfangsgriiiide der Wundaizneykunst, b i Schmucker, Vermischte Chir. Schriften, 3 vols. 8vo' Berlin, 1776, 1782: Chirurgische Wahrnehmun°-en" Berlin, 2 vols. 8vo. 1744, 1789 ; works of high value'. Discourses on the Nature and Cure of Wounds by Jolin Belt, p. 169, &c. ed. 3. Richerand, Nosoi^raphie Chir. t. i. (5d. 4. Chevalier's Treatise on Gunshot Wounds, ed. 3. Leveiltd, Nouvelle Doctr. Chir. t. i. cliap. viii. p. 436, &c. Larreti, U€m. de Cliirur?ie fllilitaire, 4 tomes. 8vo. Paiis, 1812, 1817 ; one of the most instructive books for army surgeons ever pub- lished. M<5m. par M. De Conte, Prix de I'Acad. t. viii. Examen des plusieurs Parties de la Cliirurgie, par M. Baffieu, a Paris, 1756. Bilguer, Dissert, dc Mein- broruni Amputatione rarissime administranda, aut quasi abrogandS.; Halas, 1761: this work is celebra- teil as having attracted most deservedly the criticisms of Pott, La Rlartini^re, Morand, &c. Morund, Opus- cules de Chirurgie, 1768. Van Gesschcr, Abbandlung- von dcr Nothvvendigkeit der Amputation, Freybersr, 1775. M. G. Daienan, Inflexions Importantes sur le Service des H6pitaux Militaiies, 8vo. Par. 1785. Mursinna, Neue Mediciniscli-Chirurpisclie Heobacli- tungen,zweiterThcil,s. 138, Berlin, 1796. Wedcl<ht<i's Nncliricliten Ober das FranzusischeiKriegspitalwcscii, erster B. Leipzig, 1797. Baron Percy, Manuel du Cliirurgien d'Ariii^e, 8vo. Paris, 1792. Paroissc, Opuscules de Cliir. 8vo. Paris, 1806. Bcnj. Tnt- vers, An Inquiry into the Process of Nature in repiiirinfT Injuries of the Intestines, illustrating' the Treatment of Penetrating Wounds and Hernia, 8vo. Lond. 1812. Gracfe, Normen fiir die Abliisung GrOsserer Gliedniassen, 4to. Berlin, 1813. Assalini, Manuale di Chirursfia, Svo. IMilnno, 1812. Guthrie, tianuuie ui i^iiirursfiH, pvo. iviiinno, ivi^. uki""' On Gunshot Wounds of the Extremities, Lond. ISlSj ■ the Ctli edit. Commentaries on the Surgery of ll'e _„ , n - - _ i_ .1 . . _V —... Ill ill- 01 ui Liic uiii ^uifc. vyulll liluiiiai lira i/ii iii^ tjuit^v^ij War, 1855, a work detailing the practice of our mili- tary surgeons during the late war in Spain, ann replete with valuable information. Thomson's Report of Observations made in the Military Hospitals m