793 GONORRHOEA. the form of simple ulcers. 3. Numerous surgeons would ascribe the constitutional symptoms which, in a small proportion of cases, follow gonorrhoea, to the existence of venereal ulceration together with this disease, or at some period before or after it. 4. The facts that primary venereal sores of every description are capable of healing up spontane- ously, and that some of them, being small and superficial, are therefore disregarded, and allowed thus to heal, are considerations which interfere considerably with some of Mr. Carmichael's inge- nious conclusions. However, if it were proved that constitutional symptoms of a peculiar kind, like those specified by Mr. Carmichael, were limited to gonorrhceal cases, then there would be reason for suspecting that their nature must be determined by the influence of a poison not cor- responding to that of other forms of the venereal disease. [M. Ricord considers the poison of gonorrhoea distinct from that of syphilis, and will not admit that it is ever followed by secondary symptoms. Other French cotemporary surgeons of great ex- perience, however, M. Vidal, M. Baum^s, M. Re'quin, maintain that gonorrhoea is occasionally succeeded by syphilitic infection of the constitu- tion, and that one and the same poison is the cause of both chancre and gonorrhoaa. I cannot agree with this latter opinion. I have frequently seen chancres resulting from accidental inoculation from a chancre, but have never seen a gonorrhcea so produced, even from a methral chancre, nor have I ever observed a chancre to arise on the glans or prepuce from the matter of a gonorrhcea, with which these structures have been for weeks completely covered. On the other hand, the transference of secondary symptoms from one per- son to another, in which I thoroughly believe, added to the occasional occurrence of a concealed chancre, to my mind sufficiently accounts for the supposed cases of secondary syphilis as a sequela of gonorrhoea. (See Syphilis.)] The first symptom of gonorrhoea is generally an itching at the orifice of the urethra, sometimes extending over the whole glans. A little fulness of the lips of the urethra, the effect of inflamma- tion, is next observable, and soon afterwards a running appears. The itching changes into pain, more particularly at the time of voiding the urine. There is sometimes no pain till after the appear- ance of the discharge and other symptoms ; and in many gonorrhccas, there is hardly any pain at all, even when the discharge is considerable. At other times, a great degree of soreness occurs long before any discharge appears. There is generally a par- ticular fulness in the penig, and more especially in the glans. The glans h.is also a kind of transpa- rency, especially near the beginning of the urethra, where the skin being distended, smooth, and red, resembles n ripe cherry. The mouth of the urethra is, in many instances, evidently excoriated. The surfaceof theglans itself is often in a half-excoriated state, consequently very tender ; and it secretes a sort of discharge. The canal of the urethra bo- comes narrower, which is known by the stream of urine being smaller than common. This proceeds from the fulness of the penis in general, and either from the lining of the urethra being swollen, or in a spasmodic state. The fear of the patient, while voiding his urine, also disposes the urethra to con- tract; "and the stream of urine is generally much scattered and broken, as soon as it leaves the pas- sage. There is frequently some degree of ha;moi- rhagefrom the urethra, perhaps from the distension of the vessels, more especially when there is a chordee, or a tendency to it. Small swellings olten occur along the lower surface of the penis, in the course of the urethra. These Mr. Hunter suspected to be enlarged glands of the passage. They occasionally suppurate and burst outwardly, but now and then in the urethra itself. Mr. Hunter has also suspected such tumors to be ducts, or lacunaj of the glands of the ru-ethra dis- tended with mucus, in consequence of the mouth of the duct being closed, in a manner similar to what happens to the duct leading from the lachry- mal sac to the nose, and so as to induce inflam- mation, suppuration, and ulceration. Hardness and swelling may also occur in the situation of Cowper's glands, and end in considerable abscesses in the perinEeum. The latter tumors break either internally or externally, and sometimes in both ways, so as to produce fistulas in perinseo. A soreness is often felt all along the under side of the penis, frequently extending as far as the anus. The pain is particularly great in erections; but the case differs from chordee by the penis re- maining straight. In most cases of gonorrhcea, erections are frequent, and even sometimes threaten to bring on mortification. The natural slimy discharge from the glands of the urethra is first changed from a fine transparent ropy secretion, to a watery whitish fluid ; and the lubricating fluid, which the passage naturally exhales, becomes less transparent; both these se- cretions, becoming gradually thicker, assume more and more the qualities of common pus. The matter of gonorrhoaa often changes its colour and consistence, sometimes from a white to a yellow, and often when the inflammation is severe, to a greenish colour. When the inflamma- tion is very high, shreds of lymph are sometimes discharged with the urine. ( Wallace.) These changes depend on the increase and de- crease of the inflammation, and not on the poison- ous quality of the matter itself; for an irritation of these parts, equal to that produced in a gonorrhoea, will produce the same appearances. Mr. Wallace finds that the less the inflammatory action, the less alkaline the discharge. (Ojj Venereal Diseases, p. 244.) The discharge is produced from the membrane of the urethra and from the lacunae, but, in gene- ral, only for about two or three inches from tlie external orifice. Mr. Hunter says seldom further than an inch and a half, or two inches at most. This he terms the specific extent of the inflamma- tion. Whenever he had an opportunity of ex- amining a urethra affected with gonorrhoea, he always found the lacunai loaded with matter, and more visible than in the natural state. Before the time of this celebrated man, it was commonly supposed that the discharge arose from the whole surface of the urethra, and even from Cowpor's glands, the prostate, and vesicuhe seminales. But, if the matter were secreted from all these parts, the pus would collect in the bulb, as the semen does, and thence be emitted in jerks ; for, nothing can be in the bulbous part of the urethra without stimulating it to action, espe- cially when in a state of irritation and inflamma- tion.