DISLOCATION. 550 Dislocation of the thirdplialanges from the second may take place either backwards or laterally, and niay be complete or incomplete. M. Malgaigne could find no example recorded, as regards these joints, of dislocation forwards. Dislocation of the exlreiiie phalanx of the thumb, however, which is more fre- quent than of the fingers, may occur eitlier back- wards or forwards, but the backward displacement is one commonly met with. The pluilanx is usually thrown backwards, in such a manner that its articular surface is turned towards the dorsal surface of the first phalanx ; hut it is worth re- marking, that the same position may be met with in tlie dislocation forwards, the end of the thumb being turned back, although the articular end of the phalanx has been thrown forwards. For the extreme phalanges, in consequence of the diiRculty of obtaining a firm hold, Mr. Penneck's plan of making extension seems especially well adapted.] Dislocations of the Bones op the Pelvis. Experience proves, that the bones of the pelvis, notwithstanding the vast strength of their ligaments, may be dislocated by violence: thus, the sacrum may be driven forwards towards the interior of the pelvis; the ossa ilii may be displaced forwards and upwards; and the bones of the pubes may be totally separated at the symphysis, and an evident degree of movableness occur between them. For the production of these accidents, however, the operation of enormous force is requisite ; and, in fact, their usual causes are falls from a great height; the fall of a very heavy body against the sacrum, at a period when the body is fixed; and the pres- sure of the pelvis between a wall, or post, and the wheel of a carriage, or waggon. Hence, the dis- location is generally the least part of the mischief occasioned by such kinds of violence, and the case is often attended with concussion of the spinal mar- row, injury of the sacral nerves, extravasation of blood in the cellular substance of the pelvis or cavity of the peritoneum, injurj' of the kidneys, and fracture of one or more of the bones of the pelvis. in addition to the complications, which may attend a dislocation of the bones of the pelvis, and arise immediately from the external violence, the case is always followed by inflammation, the con- sequences of which may be very serious, not only on account of the extent of the articular surfaces affected, but because such inflammation may extend to the peritoneum and viscera of the abdomen and pelvis, of which I have myself seen.instances. When these cases do not pvove fatal from the direct effect of the gteat violence committed on many parts, or from peritonitis, the same un-. pleasant event sometimes follow.s rather later from suppuration of the articular surfaces taking place, and abscesses forming in the cellular tissue of the pelvis. {Boyer, Mai. Chir. t. iv. p. 147.) Louis relates a case, in which the os ilium of the right side was separated from the sacrum, so as to project nearly three inches behind it. The accident was caused by a heavy sack of wheat falling on a labourer.—{Mem. da I'Acad, de Chir. t. iv. 4to.) A case, in which a dislocation of the left os mnominatum upwards had a Buccessful termin- ation, was attended by Enaux, lloin, and Chaus- sier, and is published in a modern work. {Mem. del"Acad, des Sciences de Dijon.) As the reduc- tion could not be accomplished at first, antiphlogis- tic treatment was followed for some days, when new attempts to replace the bone were made, but could not be continued, as they caused a recurrence of pain and other bad symptoms. A third trial, made at a laterperiod,was not more effectual; andall thouuhts of reduction were then abandoned. After the pa- tient had been kept quiet some time, tl)ough not so long as was wished, he quitted his bed, and began to walk about on crutches, 1 do not understand, however, as is asserted, how the weight of the body could now bring about the reduction, which had been previously attempted in vain. Be this as it may, the result was the patient's recovery. The fact clearly proves, as Boyer observes, that, in cases of this description, the most important object is not to aim at the reduction, but rather to oppose, by every means in our power, inflammation and its consequences. Frequently, the use of the catheter is necessary, and, sometimes an incontinence of urine, or the involuntary discharge of the feces, demands the strictest attention to cleanliness. In these cases, if the patient live any time, there is also another source of danger, consisting in a tendency to sloughing in the soft parts, on which the patient lies, and which, when they have been bruised, require still greater vigilance. Sir A. Cooper has remarked, that some of these cases, complicated with fracture, are liable to be mistaken for dislocations of the thigh :—When a fracture of the os innominatum happens through the acetabulum, the head of the femur is drawn up- wards, and the trochanter somewhat forwards, so that the leg is shortened, and the knee and foot is turned inwards. Such a case, therefore, may be readily mistaken. If the os innominatum is dis- jointed from the sacrum, and the pubes and ischium are broken, the limb is slightly shorter than the other; but the knee and foot are not turned in- wards. These accidents may generallj' be detected by a crepitus perceived in- the motion of the thigh, when the surgeon applies his hand to the crista of the ilium, and there is greater motion, than in a dislocation of the thjgh." {SurgicalEssays, part i. p. 49.) In a subsequent article, I shall notice Mr. Earle's observations on this subject. See Fracture. In a case, recorded by Sir A. Cooper, the pos- terior part of the acetabulum was broken off, and the head of the thigh-bone had slipped from its socket; the fracture extended across the os innom- inatum to the .pubes, the bones of which were separated at the symphysis nearly an inch asunder. The ilia were separated on each side, and the left OS pubis, ischium, and ilium broken. {Surgical Essays, part i. p. 50.) In the same work may be perused another case of fracture of the body of the OS pubis and ramus of the ischium, combined with a luxation of the right os innominatum from the sacrum, and laceration of the ligaments of the symphysis of the pubes. _ , Dislocations of the Cocc^.r.—Tiie os coccygis is not so easily dislocated as fractured. Boyer had seen it displaced in a man, who had extensive ulcerations, by which it was laid bare. There was an interspace of nearly two inches, between the sacrum and base of the os coccygis. In proportion as the man regained his strength, the bone recovered its riRht position, andat length united to the sacrum, notwithstanding the action of the levatores am, which are inserted into it. This case, however, was