87 AMPUTATION. Olio; the flap should be of large size, in conse- uence of the retractibility of the skin opposite !;iL' flexure of the elbow. A transverse incision across the posterior half of the limb should unite Lie angles of this flap. The joint is then opened, ij the ligaments and remaining tendons divided. ; he knife will be found to enter the joint more ivadily on the outer side, between the external c'Midyleand the head of the radius, than elsewhere. The olecranon will be firmly fixed by the attach- iont of the triceps; this tendon may be divided, or e bone may be sawn through. Dupuj'tren prac- i.sed both methods, but without any material ilitference in the result ; most surgeons would pro- I'abalily prefer to remove the whole of the bone, The operation last described was that practised by Diipuytren, excepting that he transfixed the limb at the level of the condyles, which is nearly an inch ' i^'her than is necessary, and tends to leave them icovered afterwards. The ulnar, and radial, and probably also the interosseous arteries will re- quire to be ligatured. M. A. Guerin recommends an external flap, which may be cut by transfixion of the limb on the outside of the neck of the radius ; the angles of the flap to be united by an incision convex downwards, round the inner half 1 the circumference of the fore-arm. This would iviate all risk of protrusion of the condyles; and .\L Gue'rin considers that it also provides a better covering for the articular surfaces. (See Elem. de Chir. Opir. p. 130.) Amputation op the Arm, The arm, like the thigh, contains only one bone, round which the muscles are arranged. The deep muscles are attached to the humerus, while the superficial extend along the limb without being adherent to the bone. The first consist of the brachialis anticus and the two short heads of the triceps ; the second of the biceps and long head of the triceps. The arm may be amputated by the circular incision or by antero-posterior or lateral Haps, at the option of the surgeon, or as the nature of the disease or injury may indicate. Circular Operatirm.—The patient being placed in the recumbent position, with the shoulders raised, the arm should be separated from the side, if the disease will allow it, bo as to form a right angle with the trunk of the body. A tourniquet is to lie placed on the brachial artery as high as possible; or, if it be preferred, an assistant, standing behind the shoulder, makes pressure on the axillary artery with his four fingers. The skin and muscles, which are about to be divided, are to be drawn lip and made tense. The surgeon, usually standing on the outside of the limb, makes a circular inci- sion through the integument and fascia down to the iriiiscli's. There will be no necessity to dissect the skin back from the subjacent parts, unless it has come thickened and adherent from disease ; iler ordinary circumstances, its effectual retrac- I on by an assistant will be found sufticient. When it has been drawn up as far as possible, the knife limy be carried through all the remaining soft parts 'lown to the bone. 'J'he superficial muscles will contract and recede upwards, but the deeper fibres are prevented doing so by their adhesion to the hone, and should therefore be divided about an ii cli higher up by a third circular sweep of the life. The retractor is to be applied, the bone iivn through with the usual precautions, and the bleeding stopped in the ordinary wiiy. The wound is then to be closed so as to form a tranverse line ; the dressings are to be applied, and the patient put to bed, with the wound a little elevated from the surface of the bedding. Dupuytren recom- mends a circular incision to be made at once through the skin and biceps, and loose part of the triceps. The edge of the knife is then applied close to the margin of the retracted muscular fibres, and the brachialis, the rest of the triceps, &c., divided by a circular incision down to the bone, directed some- times perpendicularly, sometimes obliquely. Lastly, the muscular fibres, closely adherent to the part of the bone above the incision, are detached from it some way upwards with a scalpel, so that the saw can be applied higher up than would otherwise be practicable. This plan combines all the quickness of a flap amputation with another advantage as- cribed to the latter, namely, that of no risk of a subsequent protrusion of the bone. Flap Operation.—The arm may be amputated with two semilunar flaps, the one anterior the other posterior. The surgeon with his left hand raises the soft parts from the front of the bone, transfixes the limb with a sharp pointed knife, and cuts an anterior flap about three inches in length ; then passing the knife behind the bone, he makes a similar flap from the posterior surface. These being held back by an assistant, the nmscular fibres .ire divided all round and the saw used. Three strokes of the knife, as M. Velpeau observes, one for each flap, and another for the division of the muscular fibres adherent to the bone, and then the use of the saw, bring the operation to a conclusion. Yet it is contended, that flap amputations of the arm are followed by more inflammation of the stump than circular ones, for which the round shape of the limb, and the moderate size of its single bone, seem admirably to adapt it. (See Velpeau, Nouv. Elem. de Med. Op'tr. t. i. p. 425.) Langenbeck, instead of making the flaps in the preceding way, by transfixion, forms two lateral ones by cutting in the opposite direction, or from below obliquely upwards, and from the skin towards the bone. imputation in the Upper Third of tlie Arm.— If the disease should require the arm to be taken oflf at its upper part, there would be no room for the application of the tourniquet. Here, instead of putting a compress in the axilla, and having it held firmly upon the artery by a bystander, as advised by Sabatier, it is more eligible to make pressure on the artery as it passes over the first rib; of which method I shall speak in treating of ampu- tation at the shoulder-joint. With a straight bis- toury, the surgeon is now to make a transverse incision down to the bone, a little above the lower extremity of the deltoid muscle. Two other longi- tudinal incisions, made along the front and back edge of this muscle, now form a flap, which must be detached, and reflected. Lastly, the rest of the soft parts of the limb are to be divided by a circular cut, made on a level with the base of the flap, and the operation finished like a common amputation. (Sabatier, Mvd. Opir. t. iii. p. 375, 2.) [There is no advantage in the square shape of the flap recommended by Sabatier, it would therefore be better to employ transfixion, and to make it of the usual semicircular form.] When the arm is injured very high up, Baron Larrey prefers amputation at the shouldcr-ioint *o