552 DISLOCATION, the natural roundness of the hip has disappeared. The natural length of the limb cannot be restored, without using force sufficient to reduce the luxa- tion; the foot cannot be turned outwards, without great difficulty, and any attempt to do so causes pain; but the inclination of the foot inwards may be increased. When an attempt is made to draw the leg away from the other, it cannot be accom- plished; but the thigh may be slightly bent across its fellow. This dislocation may be caused by a fall when the knee and the foot of the patient are turned in- wards, or by a blow whilst the limb is in that position; but it most commonly occurs in conse- quence of the person falling whilst carrying a heavy weight on his shoulders; or from a heavy weight, such as a mass of earth, falling on the back whilst the body is bent forwards in a stooping posture. In genera), a dislocation on the dorsum of the ilium is at once readily discriminated from a frac- ture of the neck of the thigh-bone, within the cap- sular ligament, by Hie rotation of the limb inwards; a position which is unusual in a fracture of any part of the os femoris. " In a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, the knee and foot are generally turned outwards; the trochanter is drawn back- wards; the limb can be readily bent towards the abdomen, although with some pain; but, above all, the limb, which is shortened from one to two inches by the contraction of the muscles, can be made of the length of the other by a slight exten- sion, and when the extension is abandoned, the leg is again shortened. If, when extended, the limb is rotated, a crepitus can often be felt, which ceases when rotation is performed under a shortened state of the limb. The fractured neck of the thigh-bone, within the capsular ligament, rarely occurs but in advanced age, and often is the effect of the most trifling accidents, owing to the interstitial absorption which the cancellated texture of this part of the bone undergoes at advanced periods of life. Fractures, external to the capsular ligament, occur at any age, but generally in the middle periods of life; and these are easily distinguished by the crepitus which attends them, if the limb is rotated and the trochanter is compressed with the hand. The po- sition is the same as in fractures within the liga- ment. The proportion of fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, which I have seen, is at least four cases to one of dislocation." {Sir A. Cooper, Surg. Essays, part i. p. 28.) The rotation of the limb inward, in cases of fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, is uncommon, though sometimes met with. (See Fractures.) In the dislocation of the thigh backwards on the ischiatic foramen, the head of the bone is placed on the pyriformis muscle, between the edge of the bone which forms the upper part of the ischiatic notch and the sacro-sciatic ligament, being behind the acetabulum, and a little above the level of the middle of tliat cavity. The limb is generally not more than half an incli shorter than its fellow. The trochanter major is behind its usual place, but is still remaining nearly at right angles with the ilium, with a slight inclination towards the aceta- bulum. The head of the bono is so buried in tlie ischiatic notch, that it cannot b.e felt, except in thin persons, and tlien only by rolling tlio thigh- bone forwards, as far as the comparatively fixed state of the limlj will allow. Tlie knee and foot are turned inwards, but less than in the disloca- tion upwards; and the toe rests against the ball of the great toe of the other foot. MHien the patient IS standnig, the toe touches the ground, but the heel does not quite reach it. The knee is not so much advanced as in the dislocation upwards, but is still brought a little more forwards than that of the opposite side, and is slightly bent. The limb is so fixed that flexion and rotation are in a great degree prevented. This species of dislocation is produced by the application of force, when the body is bent forward upon the thigh, or when the thigh is bent at right angles to the abdomen ; in which positions, if the knee be pressed inwards, the head of the bone is thrown behind the acetabulum. Sir A. Cooper considers this dislocation as the most difficult both to detect and reduce: difficult to detect, because the length of the limb, and the position of the knee and ibot, are but little changed ; difficult to reduce, because the head of the bone is placed deeply behind the acetabulum, and requires to be drawn over the edge of the socket, as well as towards it. (On Dislocatio7is. p. 71.)_ [As an instance of the alteration in position which the head of the bone may undergo after the accident has occurred, may be mentioned a case of dislocation backwards and upwards, described by M. Malgaigne, in which the dissection of the parts showed that the head of the bone had es- caped through a rent in the lower part of the capsule, .and had subsequently ascended into the usual position. This case was under the care of M. Lisfranc, who found it impossible to reduce the dislocation, and the patient died from profuse suppuration around the joint. The capsule was found uninjured at its posterior and superior por- tions, and it was this unusual condition of the parts, no doubt, which prevented the head of the bone returning into its socket, (See Malgaigne, t. ii. p. 829, and PI. xxvi.) But besides these vari- ations in their direction, these displacements dilTer also in their extent; thus the head of the femur may rest upon the margin of the acetabulum, or be removed to a considerable distance from it. M. Malgaigne has described them as being complete or incomplete, and he considers them incomplete when the head of the femur rests upon the margin of the acetabuknn in such a manner that a portion of its articular surface still overlaps tlie articular cavity. This, liowever, is scarcely incomplete, in the usual acceptation of that terra, since the articular surfaces are altogether removed from contact with each other, and the bone is entirely out of the socket. The terms complete or incomplete may nevertheless be convenient, as expressing the degree of displace- ment which the bone has undergone. When the dislocation takes the more backward direction, the bone does not alwaj-s sink into the is- chiatic] notch, in the manner described bj'Sir A. Cooper, but rests upon tliat portion of the os inno- minatum which is between the acetabulum and the notch; and when this is the case, there will not be mucli difficulty in feeling the head of the bone, nor will the fixed condition of the limb, and thegreater difficulty of reduction to which he refers, be neces- sarily met witii. The rotation of the limb in- wards was believed by Boyer to depend upon tlie anterior portion of the capsular ligament remaining entire. M. Malgaigne coincides in this opinion, and