278 AORTA. turn nor the intestines protruded ; and during the progress of tlie operation, only one small convo- lution projected beyond the wound." With his finger-nail he scratched through the peritoneum, on the lel't side of the aorta ; and then gently mov- ing his finger from side to side, he gradually passed it between the aorta and spine, and again pene- trated the peritoneum on the right side of the aorta. A blunt aneurismal needle, armed with a single ligature, was next conveyed under that vessel; care was required in tying the ligature to exclude the intestines from the noose. The wound was then closed by means of the quilled suture and adhesive plaster. During the operation, the fseces were discharged involuntarily, and the pulse, both immediately and for an hour after the operation, was 144. An opiate was given, and the invo- luntary passage of fseces soon ceased. The sen- sibility of the right leg was very imperfect. In the night the patient complained of heat in the abdo- men ; but he felt no pain upon pressure ; and the lower extremities, which had been cold a little while after the operation, were regaining their heat, but their sensibility was very indistinct. At six o'clock the following morning, the sensibility of the limbs was still imperfect ; but at eight o'clock the right one was warmer than the left, and its sensibility returning. At noon, the tem- perature of the right limb was ninety-four ; that of the left, or aneurismal one, eighty-seven and a half. At three o'clock, an enema was ordered. The heat of the right leg was now ninet3'-six ; that of the left or diseased limb eightj'-seven and a half. It is unnecessary here to detail all the va- rious circumstances which preceded the patient's death. Vomiting, pain in the abdomen and loins, involuntary discharge of urine and fseces, a weak pulse, cold sweats, &c., were some of the most remarkable symptoms. At eight o'clock on the second morning after the operation, the aneurismal limb appeared livid and cold, more partir.ularly round the aneurism; but the right leg was warm; and between one and two o'clock the same day, the patient died. On opening the abdomen, there was not the least appearance of peritoneal inflam- mation except at the edges of the wound; and the omentum and intestines were of their natural colour. The ligature, which included no portion of intestine or omentum, was placed round the aorta, about three quarters of an inch above its bifurcation; When the vessel was opened, a clot, of more than an inch in extent, filled it above the ligature ; and below the bifurcation another clot, an inch in extent, occupied the right iliac artery, while the left contained a third, which extended as far as the aneurism. The neck of the thigh-bone was also found broken within the capsular liga- ment, and not united ; an accidental complication As there were no appearances of inflammation ot the viscera, Sir Astley Cooper refers the cause of the man's death to the want of circulation in the aneurismal limb, which never recovered its natural heat, nor any degree of sensibility, though the right leg was not prevented from doing so ; hence, siiys this experienced surgeon, " in an aneurism similarly sitiiiUed, the ligature must be applied be- fore the swelling has acquired any very considerable magnitude." {Suryical. Essai/s, vol. i. p. 114, &c.) Indeed, the most important conclusions from this case are : — First, that where no other im- pediments exist, the circulation will continue in the lower extremities, though the abdominal aorta be tied, or suddenly obstructed. Secondlj-, that sulTering aneurismal swellings to become very large, before the operation is done, exposes the patient to considerable disadvantage, on account of the pressure of the disease upon the surround- ing anastomoses, whereby the continuance of the circulation is rendered less certain than it would be were the operation done at an earlier period. Sir Astley Cooper mentions, that if he were to perform the operation again, he would cut off the two portions of the ligature close to the knot on the vessel; because the irritation of the bowels by them seems to him a source of considerable danger. He h:is also said, that if a case like the foregoing should again occur to him, he would seek the aorta behind the peritoneum. (See Guthrie, On Bis. of the Arteries, p. 363.) Whoever has practised the operation of tying the common iliac artery on the dead subject must be fully aware of the practi- cableness of this last method: in my friend Mr. James's case, however, which I am about to no- tice, he found the peritoneum so firmly adherent to the aneurismal sac thai he says that it would have been absolutely impossible to have detached them from one another; and the method of oper- atino-, therefore, without opening the peritoneuni, could not have been followed. {James, in Med. air. Trans, vol. xvi. p. 15.) In a third exarnple, however, of ligature of the aorta, when Dr. Mur- ray was the operator, the latter plan was executed, " without more difficulty than was to be antici- pated." The patient died twenty-three hours after the operation. {See Lond. Med. Gaz. for 1833, 1834, p. 68.) . f .1, [Mr. James's case was one of aneurism ot ttie external iliac artery, situated too high to allow of a ligature being applied to that vessel above the tumor. Bi-asdor's operation was consequently first performed—the ligature was applied to the common femoral artery, half an inch below its origin. This operation failed, however, to arrest the progress of the aneurism. After an interval of three weeks, it was therefore decided, on con- sultation, to tie the aorta itself] Mr. James began the external incision an inch above the umbilicus, and extended it down to two inches below it. After the peritoneum had been opened, great embarrass- ment was occasioned by the protrusion of the dis- tended bowels. The handle of the aneurism- needle broke at the moment the instrument was passed under the aorta. " The broken part was so sharp," says Mr. James, " that I was obliged to withdraw it for fear of injuring the intestines. With some additional difficulty I got ray finger,. with Weiss's instrument upon it, under the ar-■ tcry ; but, even after this had been eftected, it was by no means easy, with the best assistance of mj' cdleamies, to extricate the short needle bearing the ligature, so much did the intestines interfere with every kind of manqmlalioii. ^^ !«cn t e ligature was underneath, I kept the intestines out of-the way with the fit.gers of both my l>a"J^ ""^ placed one of mv thumbs on the vessel, ^hilsti Mr, Luscombe drew it (the ligature) hr^t on my thumb, and then on the artery The uinor immediately became flaccid, and a 'lewdness in he |„wer extremities was complained of ) ^ j!";'' only add. that the patient afterwards snfle ed . ere pain in the lower limbs, which never ceased till he d^d, which event took place three hours and a,