AMPUTATION. 103 Ik on tho ordinary wooden pin with his knee lit, as the insertion of the extensors through the ilium of the ligamentura patellar remains intact, the head of the fibula is left, the two most im- rtant flexors, viz. the biceps on tho outside and tie semi-membranosus ou the inside will still I 'maiu entire. This amputation should be performed only when i> state of the limb really requires its removal at high a level. In such a case it might be pre- red to the alternative of amputation through the er third of the thigh or through the knee-joint, out it should not be selected as a nutter of choice, and in preference to the amputation lower down, as it appears to have been by some of the surgeons whose observations have been quoted.] Ampiitiition bdoiv the Place of Election. — By some surgeons of repute, the plan of amputating through the calf of the leg, when the foot or ankle is the part diseased or injured, has been condemned. It was strongly disapproved of by Solingen, to- wards the close of the sixteenth centuiy. His precept was, that the leg, like the forearm, ought to be amputated as low as possible, and the patient fvirnislied with a suitable mechanical contrivance, on which he would be able to walk exceedingly well. Dionis was nearly in the same way of thinking upon this subject as Solingen. The opinions of these surgeons, however, had fallen into such oblivion by the middle of the seventeenth century, that Ravaton, White, and Bromfield seve- rally imagined, that they were the first inventors of amputations low down the leg. Mr. White, of Manchester, in a paper dated 1769 {Med. Ohs. and Iiiq. vol. iv.), informs us, that he took the hint to amputate a little above the ankle, from seeing a case in which this had been done by a simple incision, with such success that the patient could walk extremely well, though ■with a machine that was very badly constructed. After this, Mr. White began to operate above the ankle with the double incision ; and he invented a machine much better calculated for the patient to walk upon. In 1773, Mr. Bromfield published his Cliirur- gicul Cases and Obs., wherein he mentions his having begun, about the year 1740, to amputate above the ankle, in a case of a gtmgrene of the foot. The patient walked so well, with the aid of a simple n)achine, both along a level surface, and in going up and down stairs, that it was difficult to perceive he had lost his foot. Mr. Bromfield was persuaded, however, to give up this practice, until he learned that, in 1754, a Mr. Wright had thrice amputated in this way with success, when he again had recourse to it, without the least unplea- sant consequences. (See vol. i. p. Ifi9, &c.) Of late, the method has been revived by Vacca, Briin- ninghausen, and Soulera, and is sanctioned by Velpcau, where the patient is not obliged to walk a great deal, or is very desirous of not letting it be seen that he has lost any part of the limb. (See Velpeau, Nouv. Eltm. t. i. p. 4(i0.) Velpeau re- comnuMids cutting the skin in such a manner that the cicatrix may be situated behind and not in the centre of tho stump. But, as Malgaigne observes, the delicate akin in this place would hardly he capable of bearing the pressure of tho kind of short boot on which the patient would have to walk. (Sec j\Ialfjai(/ne, Manuel da Med. Opcr. p. The advantage of amputating a little below the knee, is, that the pressure in walking with a wooden leg is entirely confined to the front of the limb, the cicatrix itself not being subjected to irritation. After amputating at the ankle, the pressure in walking operates directly on the cicatrix. Accord- ing to Sabatier, this last plan has been extensively tried in France, but not found to answer; the stump being incapable of bearing pressure, and not continuing healed. {Medecine Opiraloire, t. iii. p. 377, edit. 2.) The same author refers to some instances in which the patients were obliged, under these circumstances, to undergo amputiition a second time ; an observation made as long ago as the time of Pare'. Baron Larrey spoke of the method as an objectionable operation, not merely because some patients, as, for instance, soldiers, have not the means of providing themselves with artificial legs, but because it is almost always followed by bad symptoms, owing to the small quantity of cellular substance and flesh, and the thickness of the bone at this part of the leg, whereby cicatrisation is impeded. He even made the extraordinary statement that he had seen many amputations done at this part, but nearly all the patients died of nervous fever or tetanus. {Mem. de Chir. Mil. t. iii. p. 394.) Mr. Listen also pro- nounced the operation near the ankle to be inad- missible, because a sufiiciencj'' of soft parts for the protection of the stump cannot be obtained below the calf. The place for incision, he observed, is consequently limited to two points,—either imme- diately below the tuberosity of the tibia, or in the bellies of the gastrocnemii. The former situation he preferred in hospital practice, and among the lower orders generally ; the latter in the better classes of society, who could afford to purchase an expensive artificial support. (^Elements, <^c. part iii. p. 391.) Mr. Alanson operated in the lower third of the leg with a posterior flap, in the following manner:—■ The disease was in the left leg; the patient, there- fore lay upon his right side, upon a table of conve- nient height, so as to turn the part to be first cut fully into view. The intended line, where the knife was to pass in forming the flap, had been pre- viously marked out with ink. A longitudinal in- cision was made with a common scalpel, about the middle of the side of the leg; first on the outside, then on the inside, and across the tendo Achillis: hence, the intended flap was formed, first by inci- sions through the skin and adipose membrane, and then completed by pushing a catlin through the muscular parts in the upper incised point, and after- wards carrying it out below, in the direction of the line already mentioned. The flap was thick, con- taining the whole substance of the tendo Achillis. The usual double incision was made; the retractor applied to defend the soft parts ; and the bone divided, as high as possible, with the saw. The flap was placed in contact with the naked stump, and retained there, at first, by three super- ficial stitches, between which adhesive plasters were used. The stump healed in a month, and the man was soon able to use an artificiiil leg, with which he walked remarkably well. He bore the pressure of the machine totally upon the end of the stump, and was not troubled with the least excoriation or soreness. In the next instiincc, in which Mr. Alanson iiperatcd, he formed the lltip by pushing a double- edged knife through the leg, and passing it down- u 4