HEAD, INJURIES OF THE, third nerve takes its origin from tlie brain prior to any decussation of tlie cerebral fibres, or whether It depends on injiuy to the third nerve itself at its ongni or where it crosses the base of tlie skull, we do not know ; but the examinations we have made of fractured skulls with cerebral compression, lead us to the impression that the cause is by no means uniform, although the effect is as stated. There is no doubt much difficulty in explaining the varied effects of injury of the brain on the cere- bral nerves themselves, as most of them take their origin from the brain prior to the decussation of the cerebral fibres. Burdach found, in twenty- eight cases of cerebral lesion of one side, the muscles of the opposite side of the face were para- lysed; in ten cases, those of the same side. Para- lysis of the eyelid was found in six cases on the same side ; in five, on the opposite. Paralysis of the muscles of the eyeball occurred in eight cases on the same side ; in four, on the opposite. Paralysis of the iris occurred in five cases on the same side ; in five, on the opposite. {MuUer's Physiology, vol. i.' p. 842.) The collection of numerous cases and their results by Burdach is exceedingly interest- ing as bearing on the subject of hemiplegia. Thus, in two hundred and sixty-eight cases of lesion of one side of the brain, ten presented paralysis on both sides of the body, and two hundred and fifty-eight hemiplegia, in only fifteen of which was the paralysis of the same side as the lesion. (Mill lev, loc, cit.) This quite confirms the result of the observations of all practical surgeons. Pres- sure on the brain not unfrequently produces amau- rosis ; and when this happens the loss of sight occurs as frequently on one side as the other. This is probably owing to the partial decussation of the fibres of the optic nerve at their union. The idea is strengthened by the fact that in animals where the decussation is more perfect the eye is always rendered amaurotic on the side opposite the seat of pressure. The occasional occurrence of convulsions in com pression has been observed from the time of Hippo- crates, who remarks, "that if the wound be situated on the left side, convulsions will seize the right side of the body; or if the wound be on the right side of the head, the convulsion attacks the left side of the body." (Hippocrales, Syd. Soc. edition, p. 464.) Hildanus mentions two cases of convulsions accompanying paralysis where bone was pressing on the brain; in both, the convulsions and para- lysis existed on different sides, the paralysis being on the opposite, and the convulsions occurring on tlie same side as the injury. ( Van Swielen.) Simi- lar observations have been made from time to time in cases of cerebral compression. Thus Mayo {Outlines of Physiology) relates the case of a man twenty-four years of age, who was admitted into the Middlesex Hospital in a fit. " He was drowsy, heavy, and stupid; the pulse was small and slow. The left arm and leg were powerless, and the face was drawn to the right side. When put to bed, he was seized with a rigor, and the right side of the body became convulsed; he was relieved at first by bleedmg, but he died completely comatose. A large cavity filled with blood occupied the centre 01 the right hemisphere of the brain. There was a Slight sangumeous effiision on tho left hemi- sphere. f.J,r,*i®- collected by Burdach, convulsions occurred in twenty-five cases on the same side of the body as the disease; in only three cases on the opposite side. In thirty-six cases of lesion of one corpus striatum, attended with paralysis of the opposite side of the body, convulsions occurred on the same side as the cerebral disease in six in- stances and in no instance on the opposite side. Wi h regard to convulsions, it appears querf- tionable whether they really are sjnnptomatic of compressmnat all or whether they are not attri- butable to cerebral irritation rather than to pres- sure. It has been stated that convulsions frequentlv attend concussion of the brain ; but convulsions under such circumstances are general and not partial, and they pass away leaving no ill effects behind; whilst in extensive lacerations of the cere- bral hemispheres convulsions are often the harbin- ger of death. There are two interesting cases re- lated by Sir Benjamin Brodie, which are here briefly referred to, as showing the difficulty of this sub- ject : m the first, convulsions arose from concus- sion; in the second, they appeared to depend on pressure from a smaU clot of blood on the dura mater. " A gentleman was thrown from his horse and received a blow which caused the scalp to be separated to a considerable extent from the ante- rior part of the head, and occasioned a fracture of the frontal bone, but without depression. He was taken up in a state of insensibility. He was in this state a few minutes afterwards, when he was seized with violent convulsions, his limbs being moved in various directions, and with such force that it was with much difficulty that several per- sons could hold him. The convulsions continued for about half an hour, when they subsided, leaving him in a state of stupor. Blood was now taken from the arm, after which he began to regain his sensibility. On the following day his sensibility was completely restored, and he recovered without any unfavourable symptoms." The next case oc- curred under the care of Mr. Keate : " A man was admitted into St. George's Hospital, having fallen from the top of a coach and struck his head. He was stunned, and continued insensible after being brought to the hospital. At the end of two days, when he began to recover from his state of stupor, he was seized with violent convulsions, affecting not only the muscles of the limbs, but also those of the face. The first attack of convulsions con- tinued about six minutes, but this was succeeded in the course of an hour and a quarter by four simi- lar attacks, and in spite of a considerable quantity of blood taken from the arm. Mr. Keate dis- covered a fracture at the posterior part of the left parietal bone, extending into thelarabdoidal suture, with slight depression. At this part Mr. Keate applied a saw, and removed the depressed portion of bone. A small coagulum of blood was found lying on the surface of the dura mater, and this having been exposed, there was no recurrence of the convulsions." The observations of Sir Benja- min Brodie, on these and other cases of like nature, are so appropriate that no apology is required for their introduction: " I have not observed convul- sions take place where there are symptoms indi- cating the existence of considerable pressure on the brain. The pressure in these cases does not de- stroy the functions of the brain : it seems to act merely as a cause of irritation; and the operation of it may be compared to that of an exostosis, or other tumor, in producing fits of epilepsy." Thomson, in a few coses which came under his