i ■ ANUS. 1 - ii)eiioris, &c., Rintellii, 1750; Holler, Bisp. Chir. 1. Jourdaine, in M^m. de I'Acad. (le Chir. t. iv. p. : also Ti aitfi ties Dt^pats clans le Sinus Maxillaire, . 12mo. Paris, 1700 ; Traits des Mai. de la Bouche, I u. Paris, 1778; andJourn.do M^d. t. xxi. p. 57, et t. xxvii. p. 52—157. This author, who, in 1765, sug- i; osted to the Royal Academy of surgery the metliod of [iijectingfluid into the antrum, through the natural oiienin^, is said to liavebeen anticipated in theprac- tK-e by Allouel, who first conceived the plan in 1737, ami tried it with success in 1739. See hoi/er. Traits lies Mai. Chir. t. yi. p. 149. Becker, Diss, de Inso- lito MaxillK Snperioris tumore aliisque ejusdemmor- liis, Wirceb. 1776. Reinarques et Observations surles Miiladies du Sinus Maxillaire, in Oiuvres Chir. de De- sault, par-Bi<,7i«<,t. ii.p. 156. Z)e.?a«Z«'A'Parisian Chir. Journal, vol. i. and ii. Medical Communications vol. I Trans, of a Soc. for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, vol. ii. Natural History of the Human Teeth, by Juhn Hunter, p. 17i, 175, edit. 3. Gooche's Chir. Works, vol. ii. p. 61, and vol. iii. p. 161, e lit. 1792. CaH/A'(;«'4'SystemaChirurgiae Hodiernse, t. i. p. 364, &c. Dubois, in Bulletin de la Faculty de M^- ilccine. No. 8. J. L. Deschamps, Traits des Maladies lies Fosses Nasales et de leur Sinus, Svo. Paris, 1S04. 7?jiAorn,Diss.dePolypis in Antro Hishmori.Got. 1804. Lislon, Edin. Med. Journ. No 68. P.V. Leinicker, De s^m. Maxillari, ejusdem Morbis, &c, Wirceb, 1809. C. .! Weinhuld, Ideen iiber die abnormen Metamorpho- sen der HigmorshOle. Leipz. 1810; and also, Von den Krankheiten der Gesichtsknochen und ihrer Schleimhaiite, der Ausrottung, einesgrossen Polypen in derlinkenUberkieferhohle, demVerhuten derEins- inkens der Gichtischen undVenerichsen Nase,und der 1 Einsetzung Kunstlicher Choanen, 4to. Halle, 1818. Account of a Malignant Tumor removed from the Antrum, by T. Irving, in Edin. Med. Journ. Nos. 83 and 84. J. Gcnsoul, Lettro Chir. Sur quelqnes Mala- ■ dies graves du Sinus Maxillaire, etde I'Us Maxillaire Inferieur, Svo. Paris, 1833, avec huit Planches, in folio. Sir Benjamin C. Brodic, Bart., in Lond. Med. ' Gaz. Dec. 1834. G. J. Guthrie, in Lond. Med. Gaz. R. Liston, in Elem. of Surgery, part ii.; and Med. I Chir. Trans, vol. xx. Scott, in Lancet for 1831. ANUS. The lower termination of the intestine, : named the rectum, is so called, and its ofSce is to ■ form an outlet for the fceces. It is furnished with muscles, which are peculiar to it; viz. the sphincter, a voluntary muscle, whicli forms its base and sup- port, and keeps it habitually closed, in order that : the loathsome affliction of a continual and involun- • tary discharge of the fa;ces may not occur; and the levator ani, which serves to draw it up into its • natural situation, after the expulsion of the fa;ces. i It is also surrounded, as well as the wliole of the : neighbouring intestine, with muscular fibres, and a very loose sort of cellular substance. In addition •. to the levator ani, the proper dilating muscle, the sphincter is antagonised by the diaphragm and muscles forming the anterior parietes of the abdo- men. The want of something corresponding to a ■ sphincter is a main source of tlio annoyance result- ing from an artificial anus. The external sphincter is covered by skin, wliich is abundantly furnished with sebaceous follicles ; hairs grow upon it, and it is folded on itself to assume the character of a mucous tissue. At the place of its duplicature it is thrown into many diverging wrinkles, which become effaced wlienever the anus is dilated. The common cuticle terminates just within tiie anus, wlierc it is replaced liy the kind of epidermis belonging to mucous textures. In the mucous membrane, are distriluited the terminal ramifica- tions of tiio lin;morrhoidal arteries; from wliich origin- ate a multitude of tortuous i)icxil'orm veins, consti- tuting the lowermost radicles of the vcnaport,-c. [It is important, however, to remark, that the h.-cmorrhi)ida! plexus of veinsdoes notterminato exclusively in the portal vein, but empties itself also partly into the internal iliac veins ; so tliat a 2c 3 communication exists around the termination of the intestine between t}\& portal and the general sanom system. This communication is of great advantage when there is congestion of the liver, or any obstruc- tion to the circulation of the blood through that or- gan, since it affords the only other channel through which, under such circumstances, the engorged portal system can relieve itself; and this outlet is conveniently provided at the lowest point, where from the weight of the superincimibent column of blood, the congestion is greatest. This pro- vision for relief, however, is often insufKcient, and hence, as is well known, hepatic obstructions are very commonly attended by distension and dilatation of the haemorrhoidal veins.] The anus receives a large supply of nerves from the sacral nerves and from the hypogastric plexus; and numerous mucous cryptaa lie under the mu- cous membrane, which their secretion serves at once to lubricate and to protect. Abscesses in the neighbourhood op the Anus. — Fistula in Ano. [Abscesses in the neighbourhood of the anus are of very common occurrence ; but their especial im- portance, in a surgical point of view, arises not so much from their frequency, as from the circumstance, that, after the evacuation of the matter, they are rarely found to heal sponta- neously, like ordinary abscesses in other situations, but their parietes, after contracting to a certain extent, leave a permanent fistulous channel by the side of the lower part of the bowel. This latter condition, which is an after consequence of the abscess, constitutes the disease commonly known as fatula in ano.] Those cases in which the matter has made its escape by one or more openings through the skin only, are called blind external fistulw; those m which the discharge has been made into the cavity of the intestine, without any orifice in the skin, are named blind internal; and those which have an opening both through the skin, and into the gut, are called completafistiike. Abscesses about the anus, according to Mr. Pott may present themselves in different forms. ' "Sometimes the attack is made with symptoms of high inflammation; with pain, fevei-, rigor &c. and the fever ends as soon as the abscess is formed. In this case a part of the buttock near the anus, is considerably swollen, and has a large circumscribed hardness. In a short time, the middle of this hardness becomes red and inflamed and in the centre of it matter is formed." ' " The pain is sometimes great, the fever high the tumor large and exquisitely tender; but however disagreeable the appearances may'have been, or however iiigh the symptoms may have risen, before suppuration, yet, when that end is fairly and fully accnmplishcd, tlie patient ffene- rally becomes easy and cool ; and tlio nuatter formed under such circumstances, though it may bo plentiful, is good." •' " On the other hand, the external parts, after much pain, attended with fever, sickness &c are sometimes attacked with considerable inil-im"' mation, but without any of that circumscribed hardness wliich cliaracterises the preceding tu mor, instead of which the inflammation is ex- tended largely, and the skin wears an erysipelatous appearance. In this the disease is more super- hcial,the quantity of matter small, and the cellular lucmbrano sloughy to a considerable c.vtent."