628 ERYSIPELAS. ei7tliematou8 affections arising from local causes or from slight derangements of the stomach, and which do not possess the spreading character, and true alliances and tendencies of erysipelas. A consideration of the places in which erysipelas flourishes, of the causes from which it proceeds, and of the maladies to which it may give rise by contagion or infection, shows clearly enough that its alliances are witk diffuse inflammation of the areolar tissue, spreading inflammation of veins and lymphatics and of serous and mucous membranes, and puerperal fever—diseases all attended with a poisoned state of the blood, all capable of being pro- duced artificially by contagion or inoculation, and all characterised by the production of exudations, tending to appear at many points, to spread widely, and to diffuse themselves, instead of being concen- trated to one focus, like the common phlegmonous inflammation. The iMmpymmia includes them all. In this article we shall also treat of the diffuse or erysipelatous inflammation of the areolar tissue, for the reasons just assigned.] [History of Opinions,—Erysipelas has been the subject of many a controversy, in one of which the author of this Dictionary was for some time en- gaged with Mr. Lawrence. The opinions, too, advanced at different epochs respecting its causes and nature are curious, because they show the gra- dual advance—sometimes the decay—of medical phi- losophy. In a surgical dictionary, therefore, some notice must be taken of the views held from time to time by the fathers of our profession. Referring to the article Inflammation for a fuller account, we may here give a few brief notices only. Hippocrates evidently considered the disease epidemic and constitutional. He gives the follow- ing history: " Early in spring, along with the prevailing cold, there were many cases of erysipelas. They were of a malignant nature, and proved fatal to many ; many had sore throat, and loss of speech.'' " In many cases erysipelas, from some obvious cause, such as an accident, and sometimes from even a very small wound, broke out all over the body ; especially about the head in persons ad- vanced in life, if such an accident were neglected in the slightest degree, and this happened in some who were under treatment ; great inflammation took place, and the erysipelas quickly spread all over. In most of them, the abscesses ended in suppurations, and there were great sloughings of the flesh, tendons, and bones, and the dofluxion which seated in the part was not like pus, but a sort of putrefaction, and the running was large and of various characters." ( Works Syd. Sac. vol. i. p. 401. Epidemics, book iii.) Galen defines erysipelas as redness, with burning inflammation, often with fever and shiverings ; or a red painful swelling, arising from bilious blood. It has swelling and heat like phlegmon; but whereas phlegmon is red, erysipelas is paler, and yellow. It does not throb like phlegmon. But when a sanguineous afflux is mixed with the bilious, the erysipelas is phlegmonoid. The doctrine of Galen was, that afflux of blood produced phlegmon, of bile erysipelas and herpetic affections; of phlegm, osdema ; and of black bile or melancholy, scliirrus ; and these doctrines, sound in themselves, with certain modifications, were repeated by al- most all writers down to the time of Hunter and Cullen. The opinions held by the most part of English practitioners, during the first half of the eighteentli century, may be gathered from the works of Dr Daniel Turner, who says : " The erysipelas b\ which we understand the same with the St Aiithony's fire, may be defined a pretematurai affection of the skin, taking rise from a bilious eftervesceiice of the blood, throwing forth tliose particles which are no longer fit to be assimilated, to the surface of the skin ; there producing a small tumour and tension upon the part, accompanied with fever, heat, pricking pain, with a redness in- clined to yellow, which presently recedes upon a gentle impression of the finger, and as quickly re- turns after the same is removed." To quote Ambrose Pare, Wiseman, or any of the other surgical writers of the sixteenth, seven- teenth, and first half of the eighteenth centuries, would be to reproduce the ideas, and almost the words, of Galen. Thus Wiseman says, that the erysipelas is generated of a hot bilious serum in the blood, and that there is no erysipelas that hath not a fever, visible or latent, going before it. Sydenham, the father of English rational medi- cine, describes the disease as erysipelatous fever. He says that it may attack any part of the body, at any time of the year, yet that the face is the part most frequently attacked, and the most fre- quent season the summer. The patient is seized suddenly : his face swells, and is exceedingly red and painful. There is a crop of small pustules, which enlarge and become vesicular, spread along the brow and head, and close the eyes through their puffiness. Whatever the part of the body, and whatever the time of year, there is generally the combination of chills and shivers ; unless, in- deed, they precede the inflammation, which they sometimes do by two or three days. " I consider," he saj's, "that in this disease peccant matter is mixed with the blood, and that it must be evacu- ated. Also that the ebullition of the blood must be regulated by cooling remedies ; also that matter which has become impacted in the parts must be discussed and eliminated." ( Works by Syd. Sac. on Intercurrent Fevers, vol. i. p. 260.) Sydenham wrote what he had seen and not what he had read.] John Hunter says : " The erysipelatous inflam- mation is very peculiar, and most inflammations that are not of the true adhesive and suppurative kind are called so, although probably they do not in the least belong to it; and this may arise more from the want of terms than the want of discrimi- nation. This inflammation often arises sponta- neously, or in consequence of a low or debilitating fever. It often arises from accident, but then it is commonly a secondary inflammation, though not al- wa3'S, for the first shall have gone off", and when suppuration was about to take place it shall have come kindly on, but afterwards the erysipelatous shall take place." " It is more commonly a cuta- neous inflammation than situated in the deeper seated parts, although in some constitutions everj' inflammation, wherever it exists, will most pro- bablj' be of this kind ; however, the skin appears to be most susceptible of it, because it will spread over a prodigious surface of skin, while it does not aftcct even the cellular membrane underneatli, at least not commonly. There is an inflammation which attacks internal canals, which is classed with the erysipelatous, but how far it is the same I do not luiow," " It is more common to the throat thau any other part, often going down the trachea