observations are all in support of the same explan- ation {On the Skeleton, p. 247) ; and lie ndverts to two preparations in the museum of the College of Surgeons, which were supposed to be proofs of a bony reunion of the neck of the femur, subse- quently to a fracture within the capsular ligament; but (says Mr. Wilson) " 1 have very attentively examined these two preparations, and cannot per- ceive one decisive proof in either of the bone hav- ing been actually fractiured." One of these cases was published by Mr. Liston, in the Edin. Med. and Surgical Jotirn. Lastly, Dr. Colles of Dublin dissected several cases in which the neck of the femur had been broken: in one, where the injury was within the capsular ligament, "no effort of nature had been made to create a reunion between the two pieces of the fracture, and the stability of the limb had depended tipon the strength of those liga- mentotis bands by which each piece was connected with the capsular ligament of the joint, aided, no doubt, by the esctraordiimry thickness which the capsular ligament had acquired." (Dublin Hos- pital Reports, vol. ii. p. 336.) In the two first instances reported by this author, " The broken surfaces moved on each other, and were converted into a state approaching to ivory. No attempt had been made to reunite the fracture, and the pieces of bone were held in apposition only by new liga- mentous productions from the capsular ligament, which were inserted into the external surfaces of each piece. In No. 3' there had been a slight attempt made at reunion. In Nos. 7, 8, and 9 we observed a phenontenon, which, I believe, is now for the first time mentioned, a f racture of only part of the bone. No. 6 presented us with that mode of reunion, which some have supposed the most perfect of which this fracture is susceptible ; while Nos. 10 and 11 exhibit a mode of reunion very little inferior to callus in point of firmness, but very different in its nature, and which, I conceive, is peculiar to the fracture of the neck of the femur." Dr. Colles also found that in all these cases (except, perhaps, No. 5) the capsular liga- vient was not lacerated. In every instance, how- ever, there via?, an increased thickness of the capsule, and a removal of all, or the greater part, of llui neck of tU bone. "Althnugh the ligamentous bands seem, in a majority of instances, to have proceeded from the capsular ligament, yet it is evident from No. 6 that these may arise merely from the broken surfaces of the bone ; for in this case not a single fibre was attached to the capsular liga- ment, the new bond of union being covered by the reflected portion of the synovial membianc or periosteum of the neck. We have an illustration of this in Ruysch, tab. 1. Tlics. 9." In Nos. 10 and 11 the fragments vvere united by a cartilagi- nous substance. In Nos. 7, !!, and 9 (lie un- broken portion of the neck was so softened, tliat it more resembled cartilage tlian bone, and in this state " it was laid down upon the fractured surface, and united to it." {Dr. Colles, in Dtddin Hospital /{(ports, vol. ii. p. 353—'.ioli.) In the nuiseums at Paris are some preparations which the professors used to exhibit at their lec- tures, in order to prove tliat bony union may succeed a fracture within the capsule. Tliese specimens were carefully examined by Mr. Crosse, but none of them proved to him that bony union ever follows where the head of the bone becomes insulated, excepting at its attachment to the pelvis FXlACTUm?. 741 by the ligamentum teres. {Slcetchcs of the Medical Schools at Paris, p. 93.) On the other hand, Boycr observes, that experience fully proves the possibility of uniting such fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone as are situated within the cap- sular ligament; but he acknowledges that there are certain circumstances which niay prevent this desirable event. " From all that has been hitherto said on the prognosis of a fracture of the neck of the femur, we may conclude (says Boyer) that this fracture is more serious than that of any other part of the same bone, because the difficulty of keeping it reduced is greater: that it may in general be reunited, especially in young healthy subjects (in whom, however, be it observed, the accident hardly ever occurs) ; but more easily when it is situated near the base of the neck than near the head of the bone : that the languid vi- tality of one of the fragments, and the impossibility of ascertaining whether the coaptation be exact, make the cure slow, and the time necessary for their consolidation uncertain : that the neglect of means adapted to maintaining the limb in its proper length and natural straightness, and the fragments sufficiently motionless, may cause them to unite by an intermediate substance. Lastl)-, that the situation of the fracture near the head of the femur ; the complete laceration of the elongation of tlie capsule investing the neck of the bone; the great age of the patient ; and, particu- larly, the constitution labouring under some dia- thesis which affects the osseous system ; may render the cure absolutely impossible; that in this circumstance one of the fragments is more or less destroyed by the friction of the other against it, and in the joint a disease is formed, which tends to carry- off the patient." {Mai. Chir. t. iii. p. 284.) Boyer lays much stress on the complete laceration of the continuation of the capsule over the neck of the bone, as an occuijrence preventive of union. But he thinks it does not frequently happen, because the capsular ligament hinders much dis- placement of the fragment. (Op. cit. p. 278.) As for Baron Larrey, he entertains no doubt of the possibility of uniting fractures of the neck of the femur \yithin the capsular ligament, and concludes his tract on this subject with the case of General Fririon, who was perfectly cured after an injnry of this description. (See Journ. Compl£m. t. viii. p. 148.) After the very numerous and careful dissections performed by Sir A. Cooper and Dr. Colles, with the view of ascertaining the state of the joint after fractures of the neck of the tliigh-bone, little doubt can be entertained that where the fracture is transverse, and within the capsular ligament, a bony reunion, though not impossible, is at least so j-are an occurrence as not to be calculated upon. Those who look upon it as a thing more frequent and easy of accomplishment, have probably not duly discriminated Irom the foregoing kind oi" case either fractines extending more or less in the di- rection oftlie axis of the nock of the bone, or other fractures external to the capsular ligament, flow much, however, the safety of a practitioner's re- putation will depend upon the prognosis whicii is given, nuist be quite evident ; for in the transrersu fracture within the capsule, lameness is almost sure to follow, though its degree cannot at firU be exactly estimated. {Sir A. Cooper, Surgical Essays, part ii.p. 61.) 3u3