ERYSIPELAS. 631 s s 4 In a third case, towards the decline of the disease, there may be an increase of pain, at one or more particular spots, and abscesses may form under the skin. Fourthly, the disease, instead of disappearing cleanly, may take on the wandering character. As it declines on the face it spreads down the back of the neck, and over the throat, and even down the arms and legs, disappearing on one side as it spreads on the other. The redness in such cases is usually dusky ; the swelling and heat slight ; the patient feeble ; the cause either long- continued chronic disorder of the assimilating organs, or long confinement in foul air, oi' any equivalent cause of a thorough break-down of the health ; and the result, in aged persons, often death from exhaustion. Mr. Nunneley quotes a case in which it lasted seven weeks. Thus, we commonly see the various stages of erysipelas existing together at the same time in dififerent parts of the skin ; the portion last affected is red and swelled ; another part is vesicated ; while others exhibit incrustation and desquama- tion. Sometimes it leaves the part first affected to appear in a distant situation. Its origin, de- velopment, and complete termination, seldom take place in one and the same spot. Fifthly, the malady may be complicated with congestion or effusion within the skull; marked firstly by delirium, afterwards by insensibility, and far more frequently with signs of debility, low pulse, brown or black dry tongue, teeth covered with sordes, and not accompanied with any signs of vigorous inflammation. Lastly, a precisely similar train of symptoms attends simple erysipelas when taking its starting- point from a wound, and beginning in any other part besides the head.] An uncommon variety of this disease is an wiiver- sal eiysipelas. No disorder is more subject than the present to relapses ; but a remarkable thing, sometimes attending the return of the complaint, is its being sometimes strictly periodical. In chlorotic women, the erysipelatous attack is occa- sionally made every month just at the period when the menses should take place. {Hoffman.) This periodical nature of erysipelas has been ob- served in men : Larrey knew two male patients, one of whom used to be attacked with erysipelas twice a year at the time of the equinox ; the other had only one attack annually, which was wont to happen in the beginning of the spring. My friend Mr. Maul, of Southampton, once in- formed me of an erysipelas, which was both periodical and universal, affecting a lady several times at intervals of two years. In the phlegmonous, or cellulo-cutaiieous erysi- pelas, termed by Dupuytren diffuse phlegmon, {Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 289), the skin is more raised than in the simple form of the complaint, the swelling is harder and deeper, and of a darker colour. The redness has often a brownish or dark livid tint ; and the discolouration is some- times irregular, giving to the part a marbled ap- pearance. The whole depth of the adipous and cellular textures may be loaded with effusion, so that the arm or leg appears of twice the natural size. The sensation of heat and pain is aggravated in a very severe degree, and may be accompanied with throbbing. The swollen part at first yields slightly to the pressure of the finger, but sub- sequently becomes tense and firm. Vesications, often minute and miliary, form on the surface, with purulent contents ; but sloughing of the cellular tissue soon comes on, and the febrile symptoms are aggravated. According to Mr. Lawrence's ob- servations, these dangers are not attended with increased swelling, elevation, and pointing, as in phlegmon ; on the contrary, there is rather a di- minution of tension, a subsidence, and a feel of softness in the part. A similar account is given by Dupuytren, who states that, when the disorder has reached the period when phlyctena have formed, and the cellular tissue becomes thickened and indurated, the symptoms appear for two, three or four daj's to be stationary ; and an inexpe- rienced surgeon is even led to hope for the resolu- tion of the inflammation, while the danger is really m'gent, and suppuration already exists. (See Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 311.) Experience alone can teach the practitioner to distrust this deceitful stage, and not to neglect timely incisions. In fact, as Dupuytren observes, in two or three days, if the disease be allowed to make progress, the skin separates from the subjacent parts, and breaks, or the phlyetenaj give way ; a dark- coloured serosity flows out; and white, or some- times black sloughs are visible imder the skin, which extend with rapidity. {Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 312.) At first the cellular texture contains a whey-like or whitish serum. The fluid gradually becomes yellow and purulent, and we often find it presenting all the characters of good pus, and very thick. The serum is diffused through the cells at an early period, and a mixture of serum and pus often fills a considerable portion of the cellular texture, without any distinct boundary. Fre- queiitly matter is deposited in small separate portions, forming a kind of little abscesses, which often run irregularly in the cellular texture. This texture turns gray, yellowish or tawny, and some- times appears like a dirty spongy substance filled with a turbid fluid: thus losing its vitality alto- gether, it is converted into more or less consider- able fibrous shreds, of various size and figure, which come away soaked with matter like a sponge. The integuments over a large slough of this kind, being deprived of their vascular supply, become livid, and often lose their vitality. The suppurating and sloughing processes go on to a great extent when an entire limb is affected, sometimes completely detaching the skin, and often separating it through a large space ; occa- sionally penetrating deeper, passing between the muscles, causing inflammation of them, suppu- ration between them, and often sloughing of the tendons. When the substance of a limb is thus generally inflamed, the joints do not escape; inflammation of the synovial membranes, effusion of matter into the joint, and ulceration of the cartilages take place. (See Hutchinson's Praclical Olis. p. 115. ed. 2 ; and DiU. Med. Sept. 1827, p. 331.) Dupuytren refers to cases, in which a quart of matter was discharged daily, and to one fatal instance in the Hotel Dieu, where the whole leg was stripped of the skin and cellular tissue, and the tibia and patella denuded. (See Clin. Chir. t, ii. p. 314.) If, however, the patient should recover after tedious suppurations and discharge of sloughs, the parts which have been inflamed, are so changed in structure, and skin, fascia, muscles, tendons, and bones, are so mate-