338 BLOOD, PATHOLOGY OF, rhosis of the liver, and valvular disease of the heart. They maj- be primary, the symptoms and mode of expression of the disease depending on the cause, the nature of the morbid change, and the effect on the nervous system, as in the exan- themata, glanders, fevers, and hemorrhages ; or secondary and consecutive, being the result of some local process, as when a disease in the whole mass of blood is produced by matter absorbed from a part. They may terminate in the restoration of the blood to a healthy state, as when a morbid poison is eliminated, or a morbid process ex- hausted or counteracted ; or by one morbid condi- tion passing into another morbid condition, as in cases where the poison of syphilis is expelled and mercurialism superinduced ; or in the destruction of life through the brain, or some essential part of the nervous system, the lungs, or the heart, or by a general loss of vitality in the blood itself. The causes by which a diseased state of the blood is produced, as may be collected from the facts already stated, are extremely numerous. The following may be mentioned as the most pro- minent. Excess or deficiency of the ingesta, either liquid or solid, as a whole, or of one or more of the essential staminal principles of food ; unwholesome diet, as decomposing animal and vegetable sub' stances, often developing poisons; impure water and especially the abuse of alcoholic fluids ; any in fluence producing excessive or defective action of any secreting organ by which the blood may be impoverished, or its molecular changes disturbed by the retention of effete materials ; vitiation of the air respired, and alterations in the relations be- tween the food and the air, in particular too high or too low a degree of oxydation ; anything tending to weaken or derange digestion in any of its stages throughout the alimentary canal, or to produce ex- cess or deficienc)'^ in the nutrition of organs or structures, thereby either exhausting the blood of particular elements, or producing accumulations therein, or derangements of the secondary diges- tion of any kind, or of the destructive metamor- phoses of effete organised tissue ; loss of any con- siderable quantity of blood; the introduction of substances foreign to the economy by absorption through the teguraentary membranes or with the air respired ; any influence causing the retention of secretions intended for elimination or for special uses in the economy, or the resorption of their elements or constituent principles ; the dovelope- ment of any disease in the tissues, during which vital and chemical reactions take place, furnishing abnormal constituents to the blood, as from dis- charges in inflamed, ulcerated, or sphacelated sur- faces, or the products of the dissolution of pus, mucus, fibrin, tubercle, or cancer; anything which produces the detention of a quantity of blood bj' remora or stagnation, as in the venous channels of the spleen, the blood from which, in certain dis- eases, has been found impaired, being poor and anaemic, and the rod corpuscles destroj'ed, dam- aging or poisoning the whole mass on its return into the circulation ; in females, the retention or resorption of the menstrual discharge, the lochia, or the milk, or their constituents or products, the secretions or the effete materials, which ought to be excreted durinu' tlie periodical depuration, acting as poisons, or inducing anremia and cachexia by contaminating the whole mass ; llie occult effects of solar and perhaps lunar influences, of elcctricitj', shock, nervous and mental impressions, and the powers of nature generally, any of which may exert a direct, or, through the nervous system, an indirect influence upon tlie entire mass of blood, or upon a portion of it in some part of its circuit. II ence, diseases of the blood are the results of acci- dental or habitual errors in the relations of the ani- mal economy to the inorganic world as respects air, food and drink, the egesta, exercise and rest, sleep and watching, and the passions. These causes may operate suddenly or insidiouslj', rapidly or slowlj'. Their effects are often wholly unsus- pected by the individual. So great is the influ- ence of habit in blunting the sensibility to im- pressions acting continuously on the nervous sys- tem, that, as in the case of breathing habitually a vitiated air, individuals ma}"- be subjected to them with comparative impunitj', until the red corpus- cles, the fibrin, and other essential constituents, are damaged and reduced in quantity, and until the blood has become impoverished in the highest degree, and insufficiently vitalised any longer to sustain efficiently the functions of life. The treaimeiit required for the correction of morbid states of the blood and for the cure of those diseases, which depend on, or are intimately associated with, diseased blood, is best consi- dered in connection with the history of each dis- ease, or of those primary pathological conditions which are separately considered, and have been re- ferred to ; but there are a few general remarks which may here be appropriately made. The vis physiologica, or " vis medicatrix na- turae," is remarkably active in the blood, as shemi in the ver}' great tendencj'^ which exists towards the re-establishment of a better condition, when from any cause the healthy state has been dis- turbed. The laws regulating imbibition and ab- sorption sufficiently indicate this. If the vessels be too full, as in plethora, absorption is dimi- nished. If they contain too small a quantity of blood it is increased. In its passage through secreting organs superfluous water is rapidly dis- charged, so that, unless in extreme cases of discasei dilution never occurs to the extent of dissolving the corpuscles. When the red corpuscles are re- duced in quantit}' from a deficiencj' of iron, li absorption of this elem.ent from the alinicnt:iiy canal is extreme!}' rapid, and the blood quickly recovers its normal state. The introduction of minute portions of foreign substances quickly exci molecular actions and reactions both in the bli nii and tissues through \yhich it permeates, by which such substances are cither destroyed or eliminated. The spontaneous recovery of the blood from a state of disease is remarkably exhibited in cases of fever. Simultaneously with the subsidence of the disease, the proportion of fibrin augments independently of nutritive matter introduced into the system. In the case of poison introduced from without also, Avhether the poison remain in the blood, or be ap- propriated hy the tissues, there is an invariable tendency in the blood to liberate itself, and this is often successful by the efflu-^t of time alone. ^Vheu fatal results occur they are attributable either to the violent disturbance of the functions of organs, or to the rapid disorganisation of structure not . allowing time for elimination, or to the destruction of the vitality of the blood itself. The cessation of the action of poisons is often obviously attributable to the removal of the poison from the blood.