•BLADDER. 314 difficult when it is surrounded b}' inflammatory infiltration, perhaps complicated with false passages, or even deflected from its natural situation. In consequence of this difiicult}'', some surgeons in London, and especially those attached to Guy's Hospital, have of late years again resorted to punc- ture of the bladder through the rectum. Mr. Cock has given the particulars of forty cases in which thisoperation had been performed, in twenty-one by liimself, and in the remainder by his colleagues ;' and his conclusions are, that, in thirty-eight of these " it may fairly be said to have been perfectly successful in accomplishing the object for which it was adopted ; and in many cases he believes that it materially tended to the restoration of the patient with a less amount of suflfering, and at the same time more speedilj' and more efl"ectually, than could have been effected in any other way. In no one of these cases was the operation, so far as he could judge, productive of any injury or ill conse- quence to the patient." Of the remaining two cases ; in one, Mr. Cock failed in his attempt to reach the cavity of the bladder ; in the other, he believes " that an injury was inflicted, which, although the patient was already in a hopeless con- dition, perhaps tended to hasten the catastrophe which was impending." The injury in question was an opening, found at the post-mortem examina- tion, " exactly opposite to the recto-vesical punc- ture, and probably caused by the point of the trocar. Tlie diameter of the pouch at this part was so small as to render such an accident the almost inevitable result of the operation." (See Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xxxv. 1852, p. 153.) This last case obviously suggests that the greatest caution should be used in resorting to puncture through the rectum when the bladder is not much distended with urine. Indeed, unless the distended bladder can be distinctly felt by the finger in the rectum, puncture in this situation does not deserve to be considered as by any means a safe operation. In the opinion of the writer, it is only applicable to extreme cases, and should be but seldom required. When puncture of the bladder is really neces- sary, an exceedingly rare occurrence, the operation through the rectum seems to be preferable, cceteris paribus, to the operation above the pubes. It is, however, not applicable to cases of retention from prostatic disease, since the presence of the enlarged gland would render it more difiicult and dangerous. In these latter cases, therefore, puncture above the pubes should be resorted to in preference. But in cases of stricture, where the surgeon can choose his operation, puncture through the rectum seems the simpler and safer proceeding of the two.] Women rarely stand in need of paracentesis of the bladder; an occasional impossibility of intro- ducing the catheter from a retroversion of the womb, and an obliteration of the meatus urinarius by disease,being almost the only cases ever placing them in this condition. The only method applica- ble to them, is the puncture above the pubes, with the exception of the plan of introducing the trocar directly from the vagina into the bladder ; a prac- tice which Sir Astley Cooper justly condemns, on account of its leading to the formation of an urinary fistula in the vagina, and a great deal of disease and irritation in that passage, from the con- tact of the urine. Consult fi/iiirp, On the Opnrntions, chnp. xv. and "IS Critical Inquiry. Ambr. Bei-tratidi,Trattato delle Opcrazioni di Chirurgia, accresciuto di note, &c. dai Chirurglii G. A. Penc/iienati e G. Jirur/none. Svo. Torino, 1802. Bertrandi was an approver of the puncture from the rectum : so v/hs Le Blanc; Operat. (le Chir. t. i. JM^Ianges de Chirurgie, Pouteau, Lvon, 1760, p. 500. L'Encyclop^die M^thodique, Partie Chi- rurgicale, art. Paracentese de la Vessie. Schmuchcr, Chir. Walirnehmutigen, 2 th. No. 39; puncture from the rectum. Unbatier, Mddiciue Up^ratoire, t. ii. Mursinna, Journ. fiir die Chir., &c. iv. p. 46, 67. Cases of puncture from the rectum, and above the pubes. Camper, Demonst. Anat. Pathol, lib. ij. Kloss, Dis. de Paracentesi Vesicae Urinaria;per intes- tinum rectum. Jen. 1791. A. Bonn, Anat. Chir. Bemerkungen iiber die Harnverhaltmig, und den Blasenstich. Leip. 1794; prefers the puncture above the pubes. J. Iloviship, in Pract. Obs. on Diseases oftlie Urinary Organs, p.214, Svo. Lond.lSlfi; and in Treatise on Complaints affecting the Secretion and Excretion of the Urine, p. 412, Lond. 1823; thinks the operation from the rectum generally superior to the other methods. Sir E. Home, in Trans, for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, vol. ii. ^fierrae^Aj/'i Surgical Observations, 1S04. John Bellas Principles of Surgery, vol. ii. CEuvres Chir. de Desault par Bichat, t. iii. p. 315, &c. TF. fichmid, Ueber die Krankheiten der Harnblase, &c. Svo. Wien, 1806. Rickcrand, Nosogr. Chir. t. iii. edit. 4. Hev^s Practical Obs. in Surgery, p. 430, edit. 2. Parisian Chir. Journal, vol. ii. p. 156, and p. 265. S. T. Sommering, Ueber die schnell und langsara todlichen Krankheiten der Harnblase, &c. Frank- furt, 1809. The author is an advocate for the punc- ture above the pubes, in preference to that through the rectum, which he thinks right only in one case, viz., when the bladder is so contracted that it does not rise out of the cavity of the pelvis, and the fluctuation of the urine can be felt in the rectum, but not above the pubes. In this opinion he is joined by Langenbech (Bibliothek, b. iii. p. 719). Ca/lisen, Systema Chir. Hodiernse, t. ii. p. 277, &c. Chirurgische Versuche von B. G. Schreger, b. i. p. 211, &c. Svo. Nurnberg, 1811, gives the preference to the puncture above the pubes. Edward Grainger, Med. and Surg. Remarks, &c. with Obs. on the different modes of opening the bladder in retention of urine, &c. Svo. Lond. 1815. Diet, des Sciences Med. art. Ischurie. 1818. Sir C. Bell, Surg. Obs. Svo. part v. Lond. 1818. C. Averill, Short Treatise of Operative Surgery, p. 174, &c. Lond. 1823. Sir A. Cooper's Lectures, vol. ii. p. 306, Lond. 1825. Malqaiqne, Man. deM^d. Op^ratoire, p. 680. Alf. A. L. k. Velpeau, Nouv. El(;mens de Mel. Oper. t. iii. p. 960, Svo. Paris 1832. Edward Cock, Cases of puncture of the bladder through the rec- tum. Med. Chir. Trans. 1852. Bladder, Ruptijre of the. Many examples of this accident, occasioned by blows, or sudden violent pressure on the hypogas- tric region, and followed by fatal extravasation of urine, are upon record. The urinary bladder, in its empty and contracted state, lies so deeply in the male pelvis, as to be almost perfectly secured against any injury or accident, except that of a gun-shot wound, or a surgical operation. When, however, it becomes distended with urine, it rises up above the pubes, presses forward against the abdominal parietes, and is in a position much exposed to external injury. In this state also its coats are tense, expanded, and thin ; condi- tions in which their tissue is more easily ruptured. Excluding from present consideration penetrating wounds and lacerations by spicula of fractures of the OS pubis, the bladder is generally burst by violence, applied directly to the hypogastric region, lis by a blow, or fall on this part, or the heavy pressure of a cait or carriage wheel. In the mu- seum of University College are two spconicns of ruptured bladder; in one the accident was occasioned in the following manner: — A man who iiad been drinking, and whose bladder was very full, went out of the house where his party was; but, it being dark, ho struck the hypogastric region