659 EYE. irritation may not only produce an arrest in the progress of mischief in the other eye, but, by leav- ing the curative eiforts of Nature in full force, un- disturbed and undiverted by the presence of con- tiguous and incurable disease, may contribute towards perfect recover}'.] For information relating to tlie subjects of this article, consult particularly M^moire sur plusieurs Maladies du Globe de I'CEil; oti Ton examine par- ticuli&rement les cas qui exigent I'extirpation de cet organe et la ini^tliode d'y proc^der; par M. Louis, in M^m. de I'Acad. de Cliir. t. xiii. p. 262. ^dit. in 12fno. C. F. Kaltschmeid, Profframma de occulo ulcere canceroso laborante feliciter extirpate, &c. JenEE, 1748. J. G. G. Voit, Oculi Huinani Anatomia et Pathologia ejusdemque in statu niorboso Extir- patio, 8vo. Norimb. 1810. Berfrancli, Traitd des Operations de Chirurgie, p. 519, 1784. Paris. Sa- batier, De la M^decine Op^ratoire, t. iii. p. 54, ^d. 1. Richter, Anfangs^r. der Wuiidarzn. b. iii. p. 415. GOtt. 1795. M^moire surl'Extirpation de VCEW Car- cinomateux, in CEuvres Chir. de Ues'ault, par Bichat. t. ii. p. 102. Richerand, Nosograpbie Chir. t. ii. p. 103, &c. ddit. 2. Ware, in Trans, of the Medical So- ciety of London, vol. i. part 1, p. 140, &c. Lassus, Pathologie Chir. t. i. p. 450, ^dit. 1809. Wai-drop, On .Fungus Haematodes, p. 93, &c. Scarpa, On the principal Diseases of the Eye, chap. 21, edit. 2, trans, by hriggs. Svo. Lond. 1818. B. Trovers, A Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, sec. iv. Svo. Lond. 1820. J. H. Whharl, in Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. No. 74. G. J. Guthrie, Operative Surgery of the Eye, p. 178, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1823. Wm. Lawrence, R.Middlemore, and Win. Mackenzie, in their respective Treatises on Dis. of the Eye. Aljf. Velpeau, Nouv. El^ra. de M^d. Opdr. t. i. Svo. Paris, 1832. J. F. Malgaigne, Manuel de Mdd. Op^r. p. 401, dd. 2, 12mo. Paris, 1837. [Mac- kenzie, On the Uiseases of the Eye, 1854, fourth edit. Dr. fitellwag von Carton, Die Ophthalmologie, &c. 1853. Desmarres, Trait(5 thdorique et pratique des Maladies des Yeux, &c. Paris, 1855.] [EYE, EXAMINATION OF THE. It is often difficult to obtain a satisfactory view of the cornea, especially in children suil'ering from that irritable form of inflammation known as scro- fulous ophthalmia. In such cases the surgeon should sit and spread a folded towel across his knees; opposite to him sits the attendant, who secures the child's hands, and lowers him back- wards until his head is received between the sur- geon's knees, and there held as in a vice. The extreme tip of the fore-finger, with a bit of rag twisted over it to prevent its slipping, having been laid upon the middle of the upper tarsus, at the very edge—between the roots of eyelashes and the glolDe—the lid, without any dragging of the skin, is to be steadily pushed in a direction which, in the erect position of the body, would be upwards and backwards. In this way the greater part of the cornea is at once exposed; but if the finger is allowed to drag the skin of the lid, the tarsal cartilage be- comes instantly tilted over, and the conjunctiva, bulging forwards, hides the eyeball from view. The lower lid may be depressed by a similar ma- nrjcuvre, but this is not necessary in cramining tlio cornea, for that part is always rolled upwards under cover of the upper lid. If a more prolonged examination of tiie eyeball required, as in a case of ophthalmia neonatorum, a spring speculum must be employed, adapted, as regards widtli and strength of the spring, to the size of the palpoiir.'il fissure. {Ditxon, Diseases of Ihe Eye, l!15fi, p. 1.) For examination of the parts behind the pupil, see article Ophthalmoscope.] EYE, INJURIES OF THE. Wounds and other injuries of the eye, regarded as causes of ophthalmia, Beer divides into three kinds; namelyj meclwmical, cltcmical, and mixed. A prick of the eye with a fine needle is an example of a simple mechanical injury; the action of quick-lime upon the organ is an instance of one purely che- mical; and the violent propulsion of a red-hot bit of iron against the eye is a lesion, which may be said to be botli meclianical and chemical. The same author makes a variety of original reflections upon the differences connected with the extent and intensity of such injuries. Their intensity, he views only as something relative; thus, either the force, with which the eye is injured, is of itself too great ever to be resisted, as is seen in a gunshot wound; or the organic powers of the patient are, from age, sex, or constitution, much too feeble for the eye to bear favourably any considerable injury, as is the case with children and weak unhealthy females ; or the organisation of the eye itself may be weak, and the effects of the violence therefore greater, as exemplified in the fact of a brown or black eye generally bearing a wound better than a gray, or blue one; or, lastly, the organic powers of the texture of the eye, immediately injui-ed, may be too feeble to bear even a slight lesion, as is the case with the retina. (B. i. p. 95.) Mechanical injuries of the eye may be made either with sharp, or obtuse bodies. Sharp, pointed and cutting instruments are capable of readily penetrating the ej'e, without occasioning, at the moment of their entrance, any violent compres- sion or laceration of the neighbouring textures, and consequently the injury inflicted is a simple puncture, or an incision. Sabre-cuts of the eye, however, are to be excepted; for, though the weapon may be sharp, the blow is always attended with more or less concussion, and injury of the textures adjoining the wound, which are very delicate and readily spoiled. Blunt weapons, or bodies, can only enter the texture of the eye by dint of great force, and in this case always cause a serious degree of compression, stretching, and laceration; but sometimes, when they do not penetrate the organ, the contusion is such as is productive of not less mischief. In tlie case of a simple puncture, or incision of the eye, Beer seems to tliink that the subsequent ophthalmia is generally more owing to the inca- pacity of the wounded organ to bear the effects of the light, air, &c. than to the injury itself abstract- edly considered. He observes, that a proof of the truth of this opinion is seen in the extraction of cataract; for if the operator is careless in the operation itself, opening the flap of the cornea' very wide, so as to let the atmospheric air have free access to the inner textures of the eye; or if after the operation is finished he do not apply the dressings with caution, and properly darken the patient's chamber, he is letting the eye bo sub- jected to some of the most active causes of inflam- mation. But though Beer is unquestionably correct in regard to the injurious cflbcts of light on the wounded eye, it may bo doubted whether his theories do not make him attribute too much to the irritation of the air and too little to that of the mechanical division of the parts. In Beer's general observations on the treatment of inflammations of the eyes, the first indication specified is to remove immediateh/ everything, lu/iicli is obviously producing an irritating effect upon the eye, and to take care that no fresh source u u 2