HYPERINOSIS. 1078 decided chill or rigor, which appears to be followed very quickly by a sudden rise of temperature, and is apparently produced by the morbid blood circu- lating in the nervous centres, since it is most marked where a remora of blood has been forced on those centres by the impression of cold on the skin or pulmonary mucous membrane. Whe- ther preceded by this rigor or not, the increased molecular activity of the blood is attended by the phenomena of, and forms part of, an inflamma- tory fever; increased action of the heart and ar- teries, accelerated respiration, the fixation of an increased quantity of oxygen in the lungs, aug- mented temperature over the whole body, increased force and frequency of the pulse, redness of the jurface of the body and of the tongue and lips, and fulness of the capillaries generally, being the most prominent symptoms. There are sometimes erratic chills, followed by heats, but without any regular periodicity. The appetite is often destroyed, the heated blood excites thirst, there is a sense of general lassitude or oppression, aversion to motion, some- times slight delirium or want of sleep, and at other times somnolency, and often a very great ten- dency to hypertemia in particular organs or struc- tures. During the course of an active attack there is increased vaporisation, both from the skin and the lungs. The urine is scanty, it deposits a red or brick-dust sediment; the uric acid, urea, and extractives, the products of the active meta- morphoses of the blood corpuscles and of other nitrogenous substances, and of the waste of the tissues permeated by the inflamed blood, being increased. The urasmatine or pigment is greatly increased, and, measured by this constituent alone, the quantity of red corpuscles broken up in the blood, in a given time, amounts to four or five times the amount broken up during the healthy state ( VogeV). This is particularly the case where hyperinosis attends pneumonia or acute rheuma- tism, although more marke'd in some forms of tox- £Bmia producing rapid dissolution of the blood In some of the latter cases the destruction of red corpuscles, for several days in succession, as mea- sured by the urine, occurs at twenty times the usual rate. When a large quantity of blood is lost spontaneously during an inflammatory com- motion, as in certain fevers, the excess of urea becomes shortly afterwards diminished; increasing again in the course of a day or two; and that this diminution is owing to the loss of red corpuscles, is shown by its not taking place when the other con- stituents of the blood are drained away without the corpuscles, as in albuminous excretions. {Dr. Warndte; Dublin Med. Press, 1859, from Bib- liolliek fur Layai:) Biliary discharges from the bowels are also very common, and the cholrematine, or colouring matter of bile, also probably derived from their disintegration, still further indicates the rapid destruction of the red corpuscles. The chloride of sodium becomes rapidly diminished in the urine, and in many cases disappears, in con- sequence of effusions and exudations taking place which are rich in chlorides, and of the diminished amount ingested, the liquor sanguinis having a tendency to preserve its integrity as respects this salt; but there is an increase of the compounds of phosphorus and sulphur, from waste of tissue, although not so constantly as the increase of urea. The whole of these symptoms arc accompanied or followed by more or less copious sweats. As long as the urine continues very scanty, say re- duced to one half its normal quantity, the inten- sity of the disease continues; but when symptoms deemed critical, are fully established, and par- ticularly the sweats and the deposits in the urine, the inflammatory action subsides. A constant in- crease in the quantity of urine attends the subsi- dence of the commotion, and when this subsides the quantity of urea becomes normal. During convales- cence, owing to the diminution of the red cor- puscles, the morbid disintegration having subsided, the uraematine diminishes in quantity, and is often much below the healthy standard. When the pa- tient is put on nourishing diet, the proportion of the corpuscles becomes gradually restored, but it usually takes from three weeks to a month to raise it to the standard of health, and during this period the proportion of fibrine may be even below that stan- dard. {Simo7i, Animal Chemistry.) A sinister prog- nosis from reddish brown and brownish black urine in inflammation, and in all those diseases attended with " inflammatory commotion" of the blood, pointed out by the older authors, is thus explained. (See Vogel, as quoted by Thudiclium, Pathology of the Urine, 1858, p. 138.) John Hunter entertained the opinion that sizy and cupped blood, corresponding so frequently with a quick, hard, and vibrating pulse, mutually ex- plain each other; but being totally unacquainted with the chemistry of the blood, he was stag- gered by the fact, that such blood sometimes occurs without either a quick or hard pulse, both being, perhaps, below the standard of health, and there being no visible fever or inflammation. The increased action of the heart and arteries, and ac- cordingly the increased quickness and hardness of the pulse, are probably explained by the circulation through the coronary vessels and vasa vasorum, of blood of a higher temperature than natural, in which the vital molecular actions are increased and which contains an increased quantity of oxygen. The vibration of the pulse depending upon a difliculty in dilatation, the diastole, instead of being regular, uniform, and smooth, proceeds by a vast number of stops or interruptions so quick as to give the sen- sation of a vibration or thrill, and may be referred to the same cause. The chemical .pathology of the blood indicates, clearly, that the exceptional cases have been too much insisted upon ; admitting that sizy and cupped blood corresponds with very dif- ferent states of action of the heart and arteries, this circumstance rather tends to prove that the causes of inflammation act directly upon the blood, and that the efi'ects produced upon the nervous system, the heart, and other organs, depend partly upon the functional and organic conditions of tiiese at the time the blood becomes inflamed. The increased vitality and metamorphosis of matter, both in the blood and the tissues, and especially in parts affected with hyperasmia, during an inflammatory condition, must necessarily pro- duce an increased quantity of effete materials, and although such materials are, to a greater or less extent, evacuated during the crisis, renewed por- tions of the materies morbi may continue to be conveyed from an inflamed part through the veins and lymphatics into the general mass of blood. These materials act as foreign matter, and produce a continuance of the inflammatory action, or an imperfect crisis with repeated paroxysms, and fre- quently those ulterior changes in the blood which