130 ANAESTHESIA sation in any part of the body, as a pathological condition, and it has of late been very generally applied to express the effects of medicines which are inhaled to prevent the pain of surgical opera- tions. These medicines belong to the class of narcotics, or more properly narcotico-irritants; they suspend the action of the other senses as well as that of touch or feeling, and also induce a temporary loss of consciousness. The terra nar- cotism, therefore, is more in accordance with the usual language of physiology as a definition of their effects ; still anffisthesia expresses the pur- pose for which the medicines are inhaled, and it seems likely to remain in use, and the agents themselves will probably retain the name of ansesthetics. Attempts to prevent the pain of surgical opera tions are not peculiar to our own age, and, accord ing to Pliny and Dioscorides, who say that wine of the root of mandragora was used for this purpose, the attempts were not unsuccessful. A Chinese surgeon, named Hoa-tho, who flourished between 220 and 230 of our era, is also represented to have made patients insensible to operations by a prepa- ration of hemp. The present practice of inhalation for the prevention of pain was, however, not sug- gested by the usage of the ancients, but originated from an observation of Sir Humphry Davy re- specting nitrous oxide gas. He found that this gas relieved the pain he was suffering whilst cutting a wisdom tooth, and he actually suggested that it might be used to prevent the pain of surgical ope- rations. This suggestion was published by Sir Humphry Davy at the end of the last century, but was not acted on till 1844, when Mr. Horace Wells, a dentist of Connecticut, used it with more or less success in a few cases of tooth-drawmg, and even larger operations. He, however, gave up the practice in disappointment, on account the gas sometimes failing to take the desired effect. In less than two years after this, a dentist of Bos- ton, Massachusetts, named Dr. W. T G. Morton, who had seen some of the attempts of Mr. Wells, tried an agent which had often been used in the lecture-room as a substitute for nitrous oxide, to produce the ordinary exhilirating effects of that eas This agent was sulphuric ether, and with this Dr. Morton was completely successful. It is to him, in fact, that the world is indebted for the actual introduction of the present practice of pre- venting the pain of surgical operations. Sulphu- ric ether was first exhibited as an anesthetic in September, 1846 ; it soon came into geneeral use in all parts of the civilised world, and was effec- tual in preventing the pain of surgical operations., in all cases in which it was properly administered In November, 1847, the use of sulphuric ether was suddenly, and almost entirely, superseded by that of chloroform, which was introduced by Dr. Simp- son, of Edinburgh, who was induced to try it from the knowledge that it formed the active ingredient of a liquid called chloric ether, which had occafiion- oUybeen exhibited in the form of vapour, with more or less success, by Mr. Jacob Bell and others in London. Chloroform or terchloride of formyle, consists of two atoms of carbon, one atom hydrogen, and three atoms chlorine. It is prepared by distilling rectified spirits of wine with chlorinated lime and water It is a clear, colourless liquid, having a hot and intensely sweet taste. Its odour is nei- ther strong nor unpleasant. It is a heavy liquid, having a specific gravity of 1'503 at 60° Fah. Notwithstanding its weight, it is a very mobile liquid, and when dropped from the lip of a small phial, the drops are extremely small, nine drops, being equal to only two minims. It is soluble in alcohol and ether in all proportions, but it re- quires nearly 300 parts of water for its solution. When dropped into water, it falls to the bottom of the vessel, and acquires an oily appearance. Chlo- roform is very volatile, boiling at 140° Fah. The specific gravity of its vapour is 4'2, Under or- dinary circumstances, the vapour of chloroform ha.s no separate existence, but is always mixed with air. It can exist in a pure state only when the temperature is raised to 140° or upwards ; or when the pressure of the atmosphere is in a great measure removed by the fiir-pump. The following table shows the amount of vapour of chloroform in 100 cubic inches of the mixture of air and vapour, when the air is saturated at the different temperatures indicated. Temp. Fah.° Air. Vapour. 40 . . . 94 . . . 6 45 . . . 93 . . . 7 SO . . , 92 . . . 8 65 . . . 90 . . . 10 60 , . . 88 . . . 12 66 . . , 85 . . . 15 70 . . 81 . . . 19 75 . . . 78 . . . 22 80 . . . 74 . . . 26 85 . . . 70 . . . 30 90 . . 66 . . . 35 As the effects of chloroform, when inhaled, de- pend entirely on the quantity of vapour present in the air which the patient breathes, the effect of temperature on its volatility is of great practical importance. The air does not indeed become fully saturated with vapour during the process of inha- lation, but the effects of temperature are relatively as great as if it did. In order to facilitate the description of the effects of chloroform, the writer of this article has been in the habit of dividing them into degrees. The term degree is used in preference to stage, as during the action of chloroform, the slighter degrees of narcotism occur in the later stages of Us in- fluence, during the recovery of the patient, as well as in the beginning. The division into degrees is made according to symptoms which seem to de- pend entirely on the state of the nervous centres, and not according to the amount of anaesthesia, which, tliere is good reason to conclude, depends, in a great measure, on the local action of the chlo- roform on the nerves. The different degrees of narcotism glide insensibly into each other. In the first degree are included all the eftects 11 chloroform that exist while the patient retains perfect consciousness of where he is and what i^ occurring around him. Tliis degree constitutes all that a person recollects of the effects of the vapour, except when he happens to dream and remembers it afterwards. In the second degree of narcotjsm. there is no longer correct consciousness. 1 e mental functions are impaired, but not necessa il suspended. The patient usually aPP';«;« 'f " asleep in this degree ; but if Ins fy*^ be ■ eel he will move his eyes in a ' Tliere are occasionally voluntary movements ot tne