1027 UYDUMMIA. 3 u 2 C3'sticercu3 teniiicollis have also been observed, and it is probable that the same thing may occur with respect to the other varieties of cj'stic worms. The acephalocj'sts which belong to the echino- coccus species are of two kinds, corresponding to the two varieties whicli have been described. Those derived from Tania eclun. scolic. are simple cysts ; but those from Tcenia echin. ullric. develope secondary and tertiary cysts in their in- terior, though neither these nor the mother-cysts are capable of producing scolices. The walls of these acephalocysta have the same laminated struc- ture and exhibit the same gelatinous trembling as true echinococci, the only difference being that the enveloping cysts of acephalocysta, even wiien they are of small size, are thicker and more cartila- ginous than those of the proliferant echinococci. Acephalocysts inhabit the same situations, give rise to the same symptoms, and require the same treatment, as the more perfect echinococci. For fuller information on the subject of the Cystic Entozoa, consult Kiichenmeister, Manual of the A7umal and Vegetable Parasites of the Human Body, translated for the Sydenham Society, hy Dr. Lankester, 1857; and Copland's Medical Dictionary, art. Worms, vol. iii. pt. 2, p. 1375.] James R. Lane. [HYDRiEMIA (from £/5aip water, and aifxa blood). Excess of water in the blood, the fibrin, albumen, and morphological elements being all diminished in quantity. The blood is thin or di- luted, deficient in viscosity, and pale, in various degrees. " As an idiopathic disease this can- not be disputed, and it occurs frequently as a secondary condition." {Rokitansky, Manual of Path. Anat. vol. i. p. 403; Wedl. Path. Histology.) We are called upon, at the present day, to ex- amine closely the relations of water to the animal economy, owing to the reliance which is placed on the therapeutical powers of various processes which influence the quantity and proportions of this constituent, not only of the fluids, but of the most solid tissues of the organised fabrics. Its import- ance as a nutritive element may be inferred from the fact, that life can be prolonged for weeks if water be taken freely, but not many days without. Estimated as constituting from two-thirds to three- fourths of the weight of the body (Chevreul; Btir- dach), it exists therein in three states. 1; in a comparatively static condition; being a constituent of the most solid structures, as the bones, nails, and even the enamel of the teeth. 2; in a dyna- mic state; as a protoxide of hydrogen combined as an essential element with the other materials of the softer organic structures, as in muscles, nerves and membranes. 3; aa a liquid holding various substances in solution, in the blood and other fluids. Both in the fluids and the semisolids the water holds definite salts in solution ; and this saline fluid is again a solvent of albuminous, oleaginous and saponaceous principles. The solidification or fixation of a large quantity of this fluid by a small quantity of solid matter, without change of state, as in albumen, fibrinc, and membrane, is a charac- teristic of organic substances. This saline liquor or solution, when structurally combined with other elenM-nts to form the tissues, is always so in con- stant quantities, and the properties of the different component parts of an animal body are modified by the nature of the saline and crystallisable ma- terials contained in the water. Hence the me- chanical properties, with their modifications, of different parts of the body; the liquidity and vis- cosity of the fluids, as the blood and lymph ; the softness or consistency, the plasticity, elasticity, and extensibility of the semisolids, as muscular fibre and membrane ; the flexibility and milk-white colour of cartilage, the transparency of the cornea, and the tenacity of bone. The following table exemplifies the great differences in the proportions of water in the fluids and solids of the human body : Water. Fixed Principles. Enamel .... 2 998 Epithelium . 37 963 Bones .... 130 870 Tendons 500 500 Aorta .... 6S6 344 Muscles .... 725 275 Synovia 865 195 Urine .... 933 67 Lymph .... Sweat .... 960 40 986 14 Pulmonary Vapour 997 3 The blood, averaging 784 parts of water to 216 of soft solids; or, the liquor sanguinis, 902'9 of water to 97'1 of solids, is the central recipient of all the water of the economy. It supplies to the alimentary canal, through the glands and mucous membranes, say twenty to thirty pounds or more of water daily, holding digestive principles in solu- tion, and converting all the materials for nutrition into a very dilute fluid. Those who may not have considered this point will be a little startled at the estimated amount; but add the saliva, the gastric and other intestinal juices, and the bile together, and it will not, if the more recent physiological researches are to be credited, be found too high. The blood receives back daily an equivalent quan- tity of water ; all the products of primary and se- condary digestion, the pabulum for the nutrition of the organic tissues, and the effete materials of the tissues being reconverted by the agency of water, into thin liquids, and conveyed through lymphatics and veins, as also by the lacteals, to the blood. Hence there is not only a circulation of blood, in the economy, but a continuous, aqueous circulation — an outer circulation of fluids, and an inner cir- culation of blood — a greater circulation, which reaches beyond the blood, and at the same time includes the blood. During this circulation of the fluids, water is lost to the economy, a portion being evacuated with effete matters, as in urine, perspiration and fa;ces ; and a portion conveyed away in regulating animal temperature, by cutaneous and pulmonary trans- piration. The water thus expended, under ordinary circumstances, is comparatively small. Its quantity differs very materially, according to age, tempera- ment, climate, season, habits of life, and state of health. In order to have n wide margin, we may say from three to seven pounds are expended daily {Sanctoriiis, Keil). This loss, from a body containing 120 or 130 pounds, or more, is but a small percentage. The water is' replaced, mainly ready formed, as an essential part of the ingesta, and through the alimentary canal ; absorption by the skin being only an exceptional occurrence. If there be a small excess of loss over the water of the ingestn, it is most probably compensated in