766 von den KranU. der Kvoclicn, museum of University College „ „ .^..,n..n u. trngility from scrofula; the humerus hnving broken in two places from merely shampooing the limb. Dr. Good was once present at a church in which a lady, nearly seventy-two years old, broke both the thigh-bones by merely kneeling down; and, on being taken hold of to be carried away, had an OS humeri also broken, without any violence, and with little pain. Hardly any constitutional dis- turbance ensued, and in a few weeks the bones united. {Study of Medicine, vol. v. p. 332. ed. 3.) The fragilitas ossium of old age is incurable ; but, in children, the tendency depends on some' other constitutional disease, and can only be cured by a removal of the latter. (See Boyer, On Dis- eases of the Bones, vol. ii.) For additional remarks on brittleness of bones see Fracture. ' Consult Waldshmult, Dis. de Fractura Ossium sine Causa violenta externa. Kilon. 1721. Acret, Cliir. Vorfaile, b. n. p. 136. Courtial, Nouvelles Ohs. Anat. siir les Os, p. 64, 12mo. Paris, 1705. Marceltus Vonatiis, lib. v. c. i. p. 528. Walther, Museum Anat vol. 11. p. 29. Schmucker, Vermisclite Schriften, b 1. p. 38a. A'ejife/i, in Edin. Med. Comment, vol. i. Hist, de 1 Acad, des Sciences, 1765. p. 65. Hist, cle la Soc. Royale de Medecine, 1777 and 1778. p. 224. Journ de Mf!d. t. Ixxvii. p 267.; t. Ixxxiv. p. 216. Isenflamm, Iract. Bemeik. uber Knochen, pp. 368. 415. 466 I'abncinus Hildanus, cent. ii. obs. 66, 67,68.; cent v" obs. 89. D'Aubenton, Description duCabinet du Roi; t. ill. Meckren, Obs. Med. Chir. p. 341. Amst. 1682. iVeidmann, de Necrosi Ossium, p. 2. Francofurti 1793.; and the writings of Diwerney, Petit, and Pringle. Goodi's Obs. Appendix, j. IVilson, on tlie bkeleton, &c. p. 258. 8vo. Lond. 1820. Gibsn)i's Institutes of Surgery, vol. i. p. 370.; and vol. ii. n 70. Philadelphia, 1825. JB. Bell, on Diseases of tlie Jiones, p. 71. Edin. 1828. Salter, in Med. Chir. Irans. vol. xv. Uowship, in Edin. Med. Chir. Trans vol. 11. Herbert Mayo, outlines of Human Patholoffv. p. 18. 8vo. Lond. 1835. FUNGUS. Any sponge-like excrescence. Granulations are often called fungous, when ihey are too high, large, and unhealthy. , FUNGUS H^.MATODES. (From fungus, and ai>a, blood.) So named by Hey. Milllike Tumour; Monro. Spongoid Inflammalimi^ Burns. Soft Cancer; Auct. Var. Medullary Sarcoma; Abernethy. . Fungoid Disease; Sir A. Cooper. Matiire Encvplialoide, ou Cerehriformc ; Laennec. Fungus Medullaris; Maunoir. Cephaloma ; Cars- well. This disease was formerly generally confounded with hard cancer. The public are indebted to J. Burns, of Glasgow, for the first interesting account nl it ; and the subsequent writings of Ploy, Freer, I^aonncc, Andral, Carswell, Wardrop, LangstaiF, and others, have made us still better acquainted with the subject. It is unquestionably one of the most alarming diseases incidental to the human body, because we know of no specific remedy for it ; and an opera- tion can only be useful (if it can be useful at all) at a time when it is very difficult to persuade a patient to submit to it. Indeed, when the dis- eased part is within reach of operation, and extir- pated at an early period, a recovery hardly ever louows ; for experience proves that it is not a dis- ease of a local nature, but almost always extends o a variety of organs and structures at the same time, either to the brain, the liver, or lungs, &c. It s of the utmost consequence to be aware of th.'s ■'«t, since wo should otherwise be induced to at- FUNGUS HiEMATODES. 68.) In the | tempt many hopeless operations, and deliver a specimen of prognosis that might cause disappointment and .,.,„„ v,„„i,„„ censure. In a large proportion of patients afflicted with fungus hajmatodes, the general disorder of the system is indicated by a peculiarly unhealthy aspect;_a sallow, greenish-yellow colour of the skin which IS frequently covered with clammy perspira- tion ; constant troublesome cough ; difficulty of breathing, &c. Fzmgus HcBnwtodeswus the name introduced by Hey. J. Burns has called the disease spongoid il Jlamrtmtwn, torn the spongy elastic feel which peculiarly characterises it, and which continues even after ulceration has taken place. The exprcs sion, fungus hajmatodes, is by no means an eligible one; because the disease is not always followed by a protrusion of a bleeding mass ; never until the disease has reached an advanced stage ; and then the substance which projects is not truly a fungus, but the medullary matter itself. If, with Dr. Carswell, we regard fungus hama- todes as a species of cancer, then we may compre- hend the disease under his general definition of the latter, as consisting in the formation or deposi- tion of a peculiar substance, which presents great variety of consistence, form, and colour ; possesses a vascular organisation of its own; gives rise to the gradual destruction or transformation of tissues; affects successively or simultaneously a greater or less number of organs ; and has a remarkable re- productive tendency. Dr. Kerr defines fungus hsematodes "as a morbid condition of the body evinced by the development of an elastic uneven tumor, or tumors, not painful in their early stage, and becoming so only by implication with surround- mg parts ; tending to ulceration ; and by ulceration presenting to view a soft and spongy fungus, rapid in Its grovyth, readily bleeding in vascular textures, and emitting a peculiar serous discharge, of a very fetid odour, more or less coloured with blood." {Cyclop, of Pract. Med. art. Fungjis HcBinatodes.) As I have already observed, however, the protrusion is not a fungus, nor is its structure truly spongy; the disposition to hasmorrhage, likewise, depends,' as Dr. Carswell has pointed out, less upon the vascularity of the surrounding parts, than upon its own vascularity, and the thinness of the coats of its blood-vessels. The consistence of fungus hoematodes, or medul- lary sarcoma, varies in difi-'erent cases, and some- times at difl'erent points of the same tumour; bciii" sometimes more dense than brain, or even as com- pact as boiled udder, while in other instances its softness is equal to that of the fostal brain, or the milt of a fish ; neither is the colour always the same in every case; and it is frequently different at various points of the same mass. Generally, it is like that of the medullary substance of the brain ; but sometimes it is redder in particular places, or the medullary matter is broken down and blended with blood,and there may then be within the swell- ing clots of blood. It was the doctrine of Laennec, that the soft consistence of all carcinomatous form- ations is invariably preceded bj' a hard condition of them. This opinion is not entirely renounced at the present time, though the investigations of M. Andral and Dr. Carswell clearly prove tliiit it ought to be so. "The carcinomatous deposit, besides being modified in its consistence by the tissues in which it is contained, is equally so in consequence of n difference in its composition ; it