787 GLUCOHiEMIA. 3 E 2 diseases of the liver; and as an accessory symptom in other affections. M. Bernard has shown, experimentally, that the formation of sugar in blood, as it is trans- mitted through the liver, is increased in animals by irritating the eighth pair of nerves at their origin in the fourth ventricle, or by piercing the upper part of the spinal cannl; also that section of the eighth pair destroys this formation, but that it is restored and saccharine urine produced by artificially irritating the- central cut extremities. He found also that whenever the respiratory function is violently stimulated sugar appears in the urine, and that the action of the Woorali poison, and the inhalation of ether and chlo- roform, occasion a temporary diabetes. Bernard explains the variations in the production of sugar by the liver, in these experiments, by variations in the abdominal circulation, produced by impres- sions made through the nervous system. Sugar is found in the urine also in marsh fevers, in greatest quantity at the commencement, and diminishing gradually towards the termination of the paroxysm. {Burdel, V Union Medicale, No. 139, 1859.) A doubt has been, cast on the alleged sugar- forming function of the liver by Dr. F. W. Pavy {Proceed, of the Royal Society, vol. ix. p. 300), who regards the sugar found in the liver after death as a post-mortem formation. He states that blood drawn from the right ventricle during life contains scarcely an appreciable amount, although, when drawn from the same cavity after death, it contains a large proportion. This gentle- man's experiments also tend to show that the sugar found in the hepatic system does not exist there during life; but he admits the formation by the liver of a substance which, in contact \yith complex nitrogenous materials, is convertible into sugar, designating this substance " hepatine." According to Dr. Pavy, with the destruction of life the transposition of hepatine into sugar takes place ; and on sacrificing an animal by division of the lower part or crushing the centre of the medulla oblongata, and maintaining the circula- tion by artificial respiration, sugar can be made to appear in the urine. The conversion of hepatine into sugar during life, according to Dr. Pavy, is never a physiological, but always a pathological result. In another series of experiments performed on dogs, Dr. Pavy found {Guys Hospital Reports, vol. V. 1859, p. 204) that saccharine urine is produced, probably only temporarily, by the fol- lowing lesions of the sympathetic system of nerves:— Division of the lower part of the medulla ob- longata, and artificial respiration; Destruction of the medulla ob. through its centre, and artificial respiration"; Division of the ascending branches of the su- perior cervical ganglia on one or both sides j Removal of one or both carotid ganglia; Division of the thoracic .sympathetic on one or both aides; Decapitation and artificial respiration; Deligation of the vertebrals and carotids, to- gether with division of the contents of the ver- tebral canals on both sides; Ligature of the carotids, and destruction of the parts in front and behind tlie transverse processes of the atlas in the vicinity of the foramen. But that it is not produced by — Separation of the brain from the med. oblong, at the crura cerebri; Division of the spinal cord in the cervical region, and of both pneumogastrics; Deligation of the carotids and vertebrals; Division of the contents of the vertebral canals alone; Division of the contents of the vertebral canals and of the structures around the carotids, leaving the arteries free. Saccharine urine also occurred in poisoning with strychnine, with artificial respiration. Mr. Harley subsequently performed a series of experiments which confirm Bernard's views {On the Saccharine Function of the Liver, Pro- ceed, of the Royal Soc. vol. x. p. 289); and accord- ing to the doctrine at present prevailing, two pro- ducts of cell-growth are simultaneously produced in the liver—sugar and bile: the sugar passes by diffusion into the blood by the hepatic veins, and the bile into the biliary ducts by filtration. Under certain pathological conditions, the sugar, from im- perfect metamorphosis, in place of being consumed, is voided in the urine; just as the imperfect meta- morphosis of the bile absorbed from the intestines is the result of certain pathological conditions of the liver or of the blood itself. (See art. Pyjemia, ToxicoHiBiniA; also Frerichs' Clinical Treatise on Diseases of the Liver, New Syd. Soc. Ed. 1860.) But here this analogy ceases, inasmuch as the sugar is filtrated in solution by the kidneys as soon as formed; whereas the bile, at the stage of bile- pigment, accumulates in sufficient quantity in the blood to constitute jaundice. Although glucohsemia belongs strictly to the domain of medicine, and for a full account we must refer to medical writers, it is sufficiently as- sociated with injuries and surgical affections to demand the attention of the surgeon. Falls and injuries of the head, spine, hips, and loins, are often attended with saccharine urine. Since the promulgation of Bernard's views, tumors and con- cretions pressing on the par vagum have several times been found associated with diabetes. Sup- purating skin diseases have been observed to dry up, and sores to heal rapidly, under the disease. Caries of the teeth is said to be common from the action of the saliva ferment in the grape sugar of the blood producing lactic acid. {Falck, Edin. Monthly Journal, Oct. 1854.) Diffuse cellular in- flammation has been known to follow bleeding in diabetic patients {Duncan); and such subjects arc especially liable to tuberculosis, and also to gan- grene of the extreme parts of the bodj-, several Ceises of spontaneous gangrene having been re- corded. The introduction of sugar of various kinds, in- cluding " diabetic" sugar, into the blood of animals has produced cataract {Dr. Wiltshire, The Lancet, Oct. 27, 1860), and glucohojmia is frequently the cause of cataract in the human subject. Mr. France cites twenty-one cases: he states, " The cataracts have in every example been symmetrically deve- loped on both aides; the h'uscs have increased re- markably in their antero-posterior diameter, so as to encroach on the depth of the anterior chamber," " The colour and bulk of the cataracts have invari- ably indicated their soft consistence," and the affection has only arisen after considerable duration of the saccharine urine. Operations in the latter