HERNIA, kind, viz. besides the skin and superficial fascia, the intercolumnar fascia, the cremaster fascia, and the fascia transversalis. It would differ from oblique inguinal hernia in not passing through the internal ring, in not passing under the deep covering of the cord (fascia infundibuliformis), and in having the epigastric artery on the outside of the neck of its sac, while the remains of the umbilical artery would be in contact with its inner side. It would diiFer from the inferior direct hernia, in its relation to the remains of th_ umbilical artery, in its oblique position in the in- guinal canal, and, lastly, in being covered by the cremaster muscle.] Although the spermatic cord in the external inguinal hernia commonly lies behind or under the hernial sac, there are cases in which the vas de- ferens is found on the outer side of it, while the rest of the spermatic cord lies, as it usually does, on the inner side, or rather under it. (Sir A. Cooper.) Le Dran, Schmucker, and Blizard found the whole cord situated in front of the sac. Sometimes the vas deferens runs on the front and inner part, and the rest of the cord on the back and external part of the swelling. {Camper, Hey.) The vessels of the cord have been known to be before, and the vas deferens behind the sac. (Camper, Sir A. Cooper.) Upon this part of the subject, the reader may deem the following passage interesting :—" While the hernia is of moderate size (says Scarpa), the surrounding cellular substance is not very greatly compressed, and no change is observed in the situation of the spermatic vessels. The artery and veins of this name always form, with the vas deferens, one single cord, which is intimately adherent to the posterior surface of the hernial sac. But, in proportion as the tumor increases in size, the cellular substance, which immediately sur- rounds it and unites it to the spermatic cord, is more and more distended and compressed. At length, at a certain period, the distension is carried to such a pitch, that the spermatic vessels are^ separated from one another, and change their position with respect to the hernial sac. This kind of gradual unravelling of the spermatic cord is quite similar to that which would be produced by pulling the surrounding cellular substance in two opposite directions. Such is the reason wh}', m scrotal hernia of large size, the spermatic artery, the vas deferens, and the spermatic veins, are found separated upon the posterior surface of the sac. All these vessels, instead of being conjoined in one cord, are divided by interspaces, which are sometimes very considerable. Ordinarily, the vas deferens is less separated from the spermatic artery than from the vein of this name. In some subjects. Camper has seen it situated on one side of the sac, and the artery and veins on the other. (Icones Heniiarum, tab. v. L. O. tab. viii. 1, 2.) When an oblique inguinal hernia is dissected, a fascia, of greater or less thickness, is found im- mediately under the skin and superficial fascia: it 18 often termed the inlcrcolumnar fascia, or fascia spermatica ea:lerna. Under this is the covering produced by the cremaster. When the integuments, superficial and intercolumnar fascice, and 'the cre- v'"f„r°.''°'''''"'^' ^''-en removed, anotlier in- vestment IS exposed, derived from tlie fascia trans- where it forms the internal '''crsalis, called hv TW T 1 ""^ ring, and was wrung in uexiyjug tiie puasiumtj ' "y J.VI. Jules Cloquet the fumel-s/iaped \ (Acad. Hoyale de'C/iir. t. xi. p. 486.) sheath, and by others, fascia propria, fascia sper- matica interna. Within this is the hernial sac itself, composed of peritoneum. It is observed by Professor Scarpa, that "the cremaster muscle, in cases of old large scrotal herniEB, acquires a thickness which is really sur- prising. Its fibres, which are naturally very thin, become from four to six times more considerable. Being spread over the neck and body of the her- nial sac, they sometimes present a remarkable con- sistence, and a yellowish colour. Such alteration, however, does not prevent the muscular texture from being discovered; and Haller was not mis- taken about it." (Opusc. Patholog. p. 317.) Pa- thology furnishes us with several examples of similar changes of organisation. In certain cases, the muscular coat of the bladder, that of the stomach and intestines, and even the exceedingly delicate fleshy fibres of the ligaments of the colon, are found to have become yellow, and much thickened. In old scrotal hemiae (says Scarpa) it is not un- usual to find an intimate adhesion of the fibres of the cremaster muscle to the edges of the abdominal ring. This may depend on the pressure which the contents of the hernia make on those edges, and perhaps it may also depend on the union of the cremaster muscle with the prolongation of fascia (intercolumnar fascia), which is continued from the margins of the ring to the groin and scrotum. However this may be, certain it is, that in old large scrotal hernias there is much difficulty in introdu- cing a probe between the fleshy fibres of the cre- master and the margin of the abdominal ring; and that, on the contrarj'-, in recent hemiae, a probe passes as easily between the edges of the ring and the cremaster, as between this muscle and the hernial sac. Scarpa concurs with Sir Astley Cooper, respect- ing the fact of the peritoneal hernial sac not being in general perceptibly thickened. In a very enor- mous hernia, the pressure of the contents is so great, that instead of thickening the sac, it renders it thinner, and even makes it ulcerate. The pro- truded viscera have been met wiih inimediatelj- beneath the integuments, when the sac has been burst by a blow. (Cooper, J. L. Petit.) The outer surface of the peritoneal part of the hernial sac is ahva3'S most closely adherent to the other more external coverings by means of cellular tissue. This connection is formed so soon after the first occurrence of a hernia, that any chance of returning a hernial sac into the abdomen has generally been considered as chimerical. There must, however, be a certain space of time before adhesions form, though it must be e.xceedinglj'- short. Upon this point Scarpa observes, that in recent and small inguinal herniaj, the intestine, strangulated by the neck of the hernial sac, has been known, in more instances than one, to have been reduced bj'' the taxis, and carried with it the whole of the sac into the abdomen. Observa- tions, not less authentic, inform us, that, after the operation for hernia, when the viscera could not be reduced on account of their adhesions to the sac, they have been seen, notwithstanding such adhesions, to get nearer to the ring daily, and, at length, spontaneously to return into the belly to- gether with the hernial sac. M. Louis, he thinks, was wrong in denying the possibility of these facts