HYDROPHOBIA. 1051 Imve sheep, when rabid, any dread of water, but frequently take it with great freedom, as is proved by some experiments of which an account is given in iMagcudies Journal, t. viii. p. 328. Such un- founded supposition has often conduced to a very fatal error, for it being the received opinion that no dog is mad who can lap water, many persons have been lulled into a dangerous security. An- other equally false and fatal idea has prevailed, that everv mad dog must be wild and furious, hut this is so far from being true, that in the greater number of instances, there is very little of that wild savage fury that is expected by the generality of persons. " Hence," says this author, " as it is evident that the term hydrophobia, characterising the affection in the dog, is a misnomer, so it is evi- dent that the term madness is equally so. In no instance have I ever observed a total alienation of the mind ; in very few have the mental faculties been disturbed. The disposition to do mischief is rather an increased irritability than absence of sense, for in most instances, even those that are furious acknowledge the master's voice and are obedient." The symptom, which is most generally first observable in a rabid dog, is a certain pecu- liarity in his manner; some strange departure from his usual habits. In a very great number of in- stances, the peculiarity consists in a disposition to pick up straws, bits of paper, rags, threads, or the smallest objects which may happen to be on the floor. This is said to be particularly common in small dogs. "Others again show an early peculiarity by licking the parts of another dog. In one in- stance the approach of the disease was foretold by our observing a very uncommon attachment in a pug puppy towards a kitten, which he was con- stantly licking; and likewise the cold nose of a healthy pug that was with him. An attachment to the sensation of cold appears in many cases, it being very common to observe them (the dogs) licking the cold iron, cold stones, &c. Some dogs early in the disease will eat their own excrement and lap their own urine." An early antipathy to strange dogs and cats is very commonly observed, but particularly to cats. As the disease advances, the affected dogs bite those with which they are domesticated, and lastly, the persons around, but, except in a moment of irritability, they seldom at- tack the human subject. The irritability that induces them to bite is very strong, but is devoid of wildness. It is more like peevishness than fury. A slick held up at them always excites their anger in a violent degree, and throughout the disease there is generally a wonderful impatience of con- trol, and the animals are with greatdifiiculty fright- ened. (See art. Doij, in Rees^s Cyciopcedia.) [Mr. Youatt {On the Duy) describes a form of dumb rabies, of which the most characteristic sign is a paralytic condition of the lower jaw, which hangs pendulous, heaving the mouth half opened.] In sheep as well as dogs, a peculiar change of the voice is regarded as one of the most unequivocal signs of the distemper. (See Mayendie's Jomn. deFhysioL Exp. t. viii. p. 330.) Dr. .iohn Hunter calculated that out of every dozen of rabid dogs, about one evinces no parti- cular tendency to bite. That these animals, and wolves also, have no particular dread of fluid is proved by facts. Thus, a rabid wolf, at Frejiis, Bwam across several rivers. (Darluc, liecueil P6riod. (fObserv. vol. iv.) Duboueix has seen mad dogs drink without difficulty, and plentifully. (IJisl. de la Soo. de Med. an 1783.) Rabid animals will sometimes eat as well as drink. Thus, the wolf which bit so many persons at Meyne, in 1718, was found in the morning devouring a shep- herd's dogj and Dr. GiUman speaks of n dog, which was not deemed rabid, because it ate and dr.ank well; but, as it seemed indisposed, it was killed, tliough not before it had bitten a man, who fell a victim to hydrophobia. {On the Diio of a Rabid Animal, p. IS.) When a dog bites a person it should not be im- mediately killed, but merely chained up, because by destroying it at once, the possibility of ascer- taining whether it was rabid is prevented, and great alarm is thus kept up in the minds of the wounded person and his friends. If the animal be affected with rabies, it will perish in a few days. At the Veterinary School at Alfort, when a dog has been bitten, it is usual to chain it up for at least fifty days, before it is restored to its master, about six weeks being considered the period when a dog generally becomes rabid after being bitten. My friend Mr. St. Aubyn had a large New- foundland dog, however, which did not become rabid till seventy days had elapsed from the period when it was bitten by another dog. As I saw this case, and am minutely acquainted with the particulars, I consider it as furnishing a useful caution against placing too much confidence in the plan adopted at the Veterinary School at Alfort. For additional details relating to the disease as it appears in the dog, I must refer to the above- mentioned paper. It cannot be too clearly or widely known, that mad dogs are not particularly characterised by an inability to lap water, nor by any degree of fury. These animals, when actually affected with rabies, from their quiet manner have not even been suspected of having the disorder, and have been allowed to run about, been fondled, and even slept with. (See Mem. of Swedish Acad. 1777.) [ In the cases of hydrophobia collected by Lewis • Smith, 131 in number, 15 of the dogs inflicting the wounds, whose history was known, seemed well at the time of inflicting the bite. Of these, one soon after wandered from home, and another at an interval of two weeks. Six were imme- diately killed; the seven remaining went mad within ten days. Six other dogs acted suspiciously, being probably in incipient hydropliobia, of which two went mad afterwards and were killed, and the otiier four left home or were killed. Hence it is clear tliat animals, before showing any symptoms of rabies, ma}' communicate the disease. As to the (Etiology of this disease in dogs and animals, three views have been enunciated. The first, that the disease occin's only as an epizootic (see especially L. Kemp, Edinlitirgh Med. Journal, Jan. l-!i55) ; the second, that it can only be pro- duced by inoculation {Carusi, Osservazione sulla orifj. deUa Rabia, Napoli. Gux. of Lomh. 40, 18.")7; Youatt, Dufmytren, Breschet,and Magendie, loc. cit.) ; the third admits both modes of origin. There are abundant proofs in favour of the last view. As to its occurrence in the epizootic form and spontaneously, there is a mass of evidence. Such an epizootic, carefully observed, is related by Dr. Malley (Ellioison's Lecture, in Lancet, Oct. 1831), and other striking instances occurred in Sir John Ogilvie's and Lady Menzies' stables. {Kemp,