1036 HYDROCELE, lated form, they were erroneously supposed by Morgagni, Dupuytren, and others, to be hydatids. Mr. Curling and M. Gosselin, who have observed these cysts in the different stages of their production, have shown that they are not hydatids. These pedunculated cysts never acquire a large size, and seldom exceed that of a currant. M. Gosselin states that similar cysts are sometimes developed in the little appendage to the tunica vaginalis, so often found connected with the upper part of the testicle. According to the same observer, these cysts are liable to be developed from the period of puberty to the age of thirty or thirty-five, but are rare at this period. After the age of forty, they are very common, having been met with by him in at least two-thirds of the testicles examined. (See Gosselin, Archives Gcneralcs de Medecine, 4e serie, t. xvi. p. 27, and liis Translation with Notes of Curling's Work, p. 190.) The researches of Miiller and Kobelt have shown satisfactorily that the small cysts, called hydatids by Morgagni, which are so often seen upon the upper end of the epididymis, and which often become pedunculated, are not really new formations, but are the remains of some of the tubes which composed the Woolfian bodies of the foetus. The Woolfian bodies consist of a series of parallel tubes, blind at one end, but opening by their other end into an excretory duct. In the male subject, as development proceeds, this excre- torj' duct of the Woolfian body becomes converted into the canal of the epididj-mis and vas deferens; while about eighteen or twenty of the tubes become connected by their free or blind extremities with the generative gland (testis) to constitute the coni vasculosi and vasa efferentia. A few of the uppermost of the csecal tubes do not join the testis, but remain in relation with the upper end of the epididymis, where, by their subsequent enlarge- ment, they may constitute the cysts formerly described as hydatids. These cysts seldom or never acquire any size, and it is probable that they are not usually concerned in the formation of the ordinary encysted hydrocele, but that the latter is an independent cyst, developed in the areolar tissue connecting the tubes of the epidi- dymis. This view is borne out by the statement made by M. Gosselin, that the small cysts are habitually found on the postero-superior aspect of the epididymis, while the larger ones take their origin from the antero-inferior surface, beneath the head or globus major, in a situation where the small cysts are rare. Some of the lower cfecal tubes of the Woolfian bodies, like the upper ones, do not join the testis; these either disap- pear, or remain and become elongated and tor- tuous, and constitute the vasa aberrantia of Halier. For an interesting account of the structure of the Woolfian bodies, and the changes which they undergo in the process of development in the two sexes, see Cyclop, of Anat. and Physiol, vol. V. p. 593, art. Uterus and its Appendages, by Arthur Farre, M.D. Mr. Curling has observed the encysted hydrocele of the epididymis in all its variousmodifications, from the enlargement simply of a single cyst, to the com- plication occasioned by the varied development of several. As a cj'st enlarges, the epididymis becomes flattened, and displaced to one side, whilst the testicle is found either in front or at the bottom. It is sometimes at the side, but rarely at the pos- terior part of the swelling. The tumor is in general of smaller size than a simple hydrocele, the fluid commonly not exceeding three or four ounces in qiiantit)'. Mr. Curling has, however, removed as much as thirty-two ounces from a single cyst. When the hydrocele is composed of several cysts, they are seldom of large size, but form a more or less complicated and irregular cluster. The cysts are liable to become filled with blood, constituting a variety of haeraatocele. When an encysted hydrocele forms in the second situation, namely, between the tunica albuginea and the inner layer of the tunica vaginalis, tlie cyst is generally single and of small size. As it grows, it separates the two membranes, naturally closely adherent to each other. According to Mr. Curling, this is a very rare form of hydrocele, but some specimens of it are preserved in our London Museums. With respect to the third variety, also extremely rare, Mr. Curling remarks: " In examining a healthy testicle I once found six or seven small cysts about the size of currants, studding the sur- face of the loose portion of the tunica vaginalis. Two of them were situated in a part of the mem- brane extending up the cord. They projected in- ternally, and contained a limpid fluid. I have twice since seen a similar k ind of cyst in the same portion of the tunica vaginalis. Similar adven- titious cysts have also been found on the internal surface of the sac of a simple hydrocele, and a pre- paration of the kind is contained in the Hunterian Museum. If a cyst developed in this membrane were to increase to any size, it would constitute a swelling which might appropriately be termed an encysted hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis." Mr. Curling has made many examinations of the cysts in encysted hydrocele in order to make out how they are formed, and he is satisfied that they are independent formations, being simply serous cysts developed in the areolar tissue between the collected tubes and their investing serous tunic. An interesting circumstance in connection with this form of hydrocele is the occurrence of sperma- tozoa in the fluid contents of the cyst, a discovery made by Mr. Listen in 1843, and one which appears to have been made independently by Mr. Lloyd, about the same time. (See Med. Cliir. vol. xxvi. p. 216, 368.) Since that period they have been met with in a large number of instances, in persons of various ages, and in cysts of all sizes, from that of a filbert to the largest which the hydrocele attains. When very numer- ous they give to the fluid an opaline appearance resembling cocoa-nut milk ; indeed this appearance is pronounced to be characteristic of their presence. They are often as lively as in fresh semen, and sometimes are very few. Mr. Curling has found them more frequently in the larger cysts, and has detected them in cysts tapped for the first time, and also in small cysts connected Avith the testicles removed after death. Their presence has been accounted for in va- rious ways. Mr. Listen suspected that the cyst was formed by the dilatation of a seminiferous tube. This view is opposed by Mr. Curling, who snys that the cyst is quite distinct and com- pletely separated from the ducts, though close to them. Their presence has been attributed to a wound of an adjoining duct in the opera- tion of tapping; this is negatived by finding