H/EMORRITAGE. 859 the incipient and temporary part of what the ligature has to accomplish : it has also to effect the adhesion of the internal and middle coats of the artery, which, being the thing on which the per- manent suppression of hcemorrhage depends, is the most important. The size and form of the ligature, ■whether completely flat or irregular, have not been, as Dr. Jones remarks,sufficiently attended to; nor is the degree of force employed in tying the artery often considered. Some surgeons, wishing to guard against the ligature slipping off, tie it with very considerable force; while others, apprehensive of cutting through the arterj', or of occasioning too early a separation of the ligature, draw it only sufficiently tight just to prevent the escape of blood. A broad flat ligature is not likely to make such a wound in the internal and middle coats of the artery as is most favourable to adhesion, be- cause it is scarcely possible to tie it smoothly round the vessel, which is very likely to be thrown into folds, or puckered by it, and consequently to have an irregular bruised wound made in its middle and internal coats. By covering also a considerable space of the externa! coat, it may de- stroy the very vessels which pass on it in their way to the cut surfaces of the inner coats, and thus render them incapable of inflaming. Even suppos- ing the wound to unite, still such a ligature may- cover that part of the external coat which is di- rectly over the newly united part, and,consequently, as soon as it has produced ulceration through the external coat, it will cause the same effect on the newly united parts, and of course secondary htemor- rhage. (Jones, p. 168.) When a ligature is of an irregular form, it is apt to cut through the internal and middle coats of an artery more completely at some parts than at others; but these coats ought to be perfectly cut through, in order to produce an effusion of fibrine from the inside of the vessel, which seems to ad- here most securely at its cut surfaces. Also, when the ligature is not applied with suffi- cient tightness, the inner coats of the artery will not be properly cut through. Dr. Jones thinks that the ligature being sometimes put on so as to deviate from a circle, has a tendency to produce secondary hfemorrhage. Dr. Jones conceives that ligatures are best when they are round and very firm; and he adds, that, though only a slight force is necessary to cut through the internal and middle coats of an artery, it is better to tie the vessel more tightly than is necessary merely to cut through its inner coats, because the cut surfaces will thus be more certainly kept in contact, the separation of the ligature ex- pedited, and the danger of ulceration spreading to the newly cicatrised part diminished. The external coat will never ulcerate through before the inner ones have adhered. The limb, however, should be kept in a perfectly quiet state. I am sincerely glad to find that so accurate an observer as Dr. Jones has refuted the idea, that ligatures occasionally slip off the vessels, in conse- quence of the violent impulse of the blood. In fact, the blood does not continue to be impelled against the extremity of the artery with the same impetuosity with which it circulated through the vessel before it was tied. The blood is imme- diately determined into the collateral branches, nor is there any pulsation for some way above the liga- ture. Dr. .Jones, more rationally, imputes this accident either to the clumsiness of the ligature, which prevents its lying compactly and securely round the artery ; or to its not having been applied with sufficient tightness ; or to its having that very insecure hold of the vessel which the deviation from the circular application must occasion. (P. 173.) Another circumstance in ligaturing the cut ex- tremities of arteries, adverted to by Dupuy- tren, may cause the accident: — "The surgeon (says he) should avoid taking hold of only one side of the artery by placing one blade of the for- ceps into its canal; for it has sometimes happened that, when only a part of the circumference of the artery has thus been included in the noose, haemor- rhage has come on directly the wound has been dressed." (See Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 399.) Dr. Jones is of opinion, that in cases of aneu- rism, in which the artery has only been tied with one ligature, and left undivided, and in which se- condary hemorrhage has arisen, this has most probably been owing, either to a diseased state of the artery; to various contrivances for compressing a large portion of the vessel ; to having a loose ligature above the one which is tied ; or, lastly, to not tj'ing the artery sufficiently tight to cut through the internal and middle coats, so as to fit them for adhesion. The latter fault can hardly fail to pro- duce a gradual ulceration of those coats, and, of course, to bring on haemorrhage, which returns with greater violence as the ulceration advances. (P. 176.) These reflections must also obviously explain why Scarpa's practice of using a largish ligature, with the intervention of a piece of cloth between the cord and the vessel, for the express purpose of hindering the inner coats of the vessel from being divided, must be objectionable, because it may be set down as an axiom, in all operations where large arteries are to be tied, that the quantity of extra- neous substances in the wound, and particularly of such as are in contact with the artery, should be diminished as much as possible. And, though I may be disposed to go so far with Scarpa as to believe, that the interposition of a piece of cork or wood is worse than that of a cylinder of linen, I cannot accede to the proposition, that the latter is free from objection, because it rather acts as a cushion than as a body likely to bruise. (See Mem. on the TJgidiire of Arteries, p. 44.) With the differences in the constitutions of man and animals, I know that the results of experi- ments on the latter can never be looked upon as a positive proof of what would happen from the same experiments performed on the human subject. The stronger or weaker impulse of the heart, the more or less coagulable nature of the blood, the greater or less degree of general and local irritability, the more or less quick tendency to adhesive inflamma- tion and ulceration, are circumstances which must make in different animals the same experiments load to different results. The question, whether a small roinid ligature or a larger flat one, with a piece of linen between it and the vessel, be best nmst therefore, after all, bo decided, not by Dr. Jones's experiments, nor those of Scarpa or Misloi but by the practice of surgery on the human body; and that the principles defended in this Dictionary are, on the whole, to be preferred, can hardly bo questioned by any man who knows how nmch less frequent secondary hajmorrliage now is in this me^ tropolis than it was formerly when those principles