ANEtfRISM. 220 quainted with one case of this description, which is reported by Dr. Ruschenbergcr in the American Journal, JM\. lUG. The symptoms in this case were very remarkable, consisting of complete hemiplegia of the left side, with involuntary antero- posterior vibration of the head and body, and paralysis agitans of the right leg. He slept heavily, with loud snoring; ate voraciously, but had conside- rable difficulty occasionally in deglutition and in articulation. The intellect was clear, but very slow. After death, an aneurism of the basilar artery as large as a pigeon's egg, and containing an irregular, very hard, dry clot of blood, was found. | The sac had given way at one point, extravasation taking place into the substance of the Pons Varolii, which was softened, and of a black colour. 2. The most frequent mode in which death takes place in these cases is by the sudden rupture of the sac, and the extravasation of its contents into the cavity of the arachnoid at the base of the brain, or into the lateral ventricles. This latter takes place either from the aneurism projecting into them, and there giving way or rupturing into these cavities by breaking down the inter- vening cerebral substance. When this mode of termination occurs there are occasionally no warning or premonitory symptoms of any im- pending danger ; the patient being, apparently in good health, struck down by an attack of apoplexy which is speedily fatal. More frequently a series of those symptoms that have already been men- tioned as attending many cases of this disease pre- ceded the fatal event for a longer or shorter time, When rupture of the sac and e.xtravasation of blood takes place, death is inevitable ; at least I am not acquainted with any case in which the appearances found after death could lead me to the belief that this condition had been even temporarily recovered from. 3. Death may result from another cause than pressure of the aneurismal sac, or its rupture and the extravasation of its contents—viz. from soften- ing or disorganisation of the substance of the brain to a greater or less extent, in consequence of the obstruction offered to the passage of the blood through the aneurismal vessel. In the case of aneurism of both carotids, akeady mentioned as having occurred at University College Hospital, this was the case; both anterior cerebrallobes were affected with white softening, and this condition was especially observable on that side on which the aneurism was largest. _ _ 4. Lastly, death may be produced by the irri- tation occasioned by the presence of one or more aneurismal tumors within the cranium. Of this an interesting example is offered by the history of a case of aneurism of both internal carotids con- tained in the Museum of the College of Surgeons, and related by Sir G. Blanc {in the Trans, of the Sucielyfor the Improvement of Medical and Chi- mrr/ieal Knoiuledye, vol. ii. p. 19-3). In this case the patient, a huly, sixty-nine years of age, had suffered for four years from attacks of giddiness, headache, and imperfect vision ; about sixteen months before her death she became insane, re- covered, and tlien relapsed twice in the same state. After having regained her senses for some montlis, she became affected with giddiness, redness of the eyes, and maniacal delirium, witii fever, wliich continuing for some months, caused her death. After death, the following appearances were found :—" Upon examining the body, tliere was no appearance in the brain itself that could in any way account for the symptoms. There was, in- deed, a greater quantity of fluid than common in the ventricles, and the surface of it was moister than it is usually found in a sound state ; but in all other cases which have occiu'red to me of organic affections of the brain proving fatal, except those which are sudden, such as apoplexy, there has been a preternatural quantity of fluid in its ven- tricles. There were also spicula of bone in the membrane forming the falx. The inner substance of the crura cerebri was of a brown colour, and more tender than natural. The optic nerves were smaller than natural, as if they had been wasted. The septum lucidum was more more than usually dense. " But the morbid appearance in this case, which was so singular, and to which the symptoms of complaint seem chiefly referrible, was two bulbs, about five-eighths of an inch in diameter, filling up the hollow on each side of the sella turcica, which were evidently dilatations of the carotid arteries, and, from their being filled with lamina of coagu- lated blood, there could be no doubt of there being aneurisms of these arteries. The dissection was made by Mr. Hunter, assisted by Mr. Home, in the presence of Dr. Jenner and myself, and all con- curred in the opinion that these tumors were aneurisms. The one on the left side was largest. That on the right side communicated with the cavity of the artery, which was not the case with the other." In the treatment of intracranial aneurism there is usually little to be done. The nature of the case not being sufficiently obvious, in the majority of cases, to justify active measures. Should, how- ever, the loud rough whiz be distinctly audible to others, besides the patient, over one side of the head, and more especially about the base of the cranium, or by application of the stethoscope to the mastoid process,ligature of the carotid artery on the affected side might with propriety be practised. This has been successfully done in a most interest- ing and instructive case of intracranial aneurism, by Mr. Coe, of Bristol, and reported^ by him in the Associaiiou Journal, Nov. 9, 1855.] Aneurismal Varix ; Varicose, or Venous Aneurism ; Aneurism by Transfusion. By these terms surgeons mean a tumor aris- incT from a preternatural communication formed between a large vein and a subjacent artery. Thus, in venesection, performed immediately over the artery, at the bend of the elbow, if the lancet be carried too deeply, it may transfix the vein, and wound the artery; in which event, the .arterial blood, in consequence of the proxnnity of the two vessels, instead of being effused m the areolar tissue, will pass directly into tlie cavity of the vein, which will become dilated in the form of a varix by the jet of arterial blood into it. Although Sennertus probably referred to an instance of this disease (op. t. v. 1. v. cap. 43), Dr W Hunter is undoubtedly the first who gave an'accuratc description of it. Scarpa is disposed to claim a share of the merit for his countryman fiuattinii; but, as Mr. Hodgson has remarked. Dr. Hunter's observations on this disease were publisliod in the years 1757 and 1764 ; whereas, Guattani did not see his first patient until the