423 CATARACT. for life incomplete, as is the case in the central capsiilo-lenticular cataract. Frequently (says a modern writer) the cataract " proceeds from an hereditary disposition, which has existed for several successive generations; while, in other cases, it attacks several members of the same family, without any disposition of this kind being recognisable in their progenitors. Among others, Janin mentions a whole family of six persons who laboured under this disease." (Obs. sur VQiil, p. 149.) Richter extracted the cataract from a patient whose father and grand- father had been affected with the same malady, find in whose son, at that period, it had begun to manifest itself. He adds that he had seen three children, all born of the same parents, who ac- quired cataracts at the age of three j-ears. {On ilte different Kinds of Cataract, p. 3.) " During my apprenticeship with the late Mr. Hill, of Barnstaple, I was present when he operated on two brothers and a sister, all of whom were adults, and who stated that three of four others of their family were affected with symptoms not unlike those which thej' had experienced at the commencement of the complaint. I myself re- cently operated on two gentlemen advanced in years, who informed me that they had a brother on his return from India, who was similarly affected." (See Adams's Pract. Obs. oh Eetropimn, Artificial Pupil, and Cataract, p. 101. London, 1812.) The dust of lime is supposed to be conducive to the disease, cataracts being said to be frequent amongst the workmen in lime-pits and kilns. In Buch cases, I conceive that the cataract has mostly been the result of inflammation. AVounds of the e3'e, where the weapon has pierced the capsule and the lens, and violent con- cussions of the fore part of the globe of the eye, though no wound may exist, are in general fol- lowed by a cataract, as an immediate consequence. " Inflammation is in some cases the proximate cause of cataract. Indeed, anterior and posterior capsular cataracts may be compared to specks of the cornea ; while, in some instances, the lens also from long continued inflammation, becomes opaque, dissolves into a milk-like fluid, or even suppurates. Ossification of the lens and its capsule is {mother termination of inflammation of these parts." Iritis is sometimes followed by opacit)' of the capsule and lens. (See Mackenzie, On Dis. of the Eye, p. 077.) Dr. Mackenzie has met with a greater number of stocking-weavers affected with cataract than of any other trade. The disease in them was often attended with amaurosis. " Looking intensely at an object in motion, which their occupation re- quires, is probably the cause of their eyes becoming diseased." According to the same authority, the inhabitants of volcanic countries, as Naples and Sicily, are very subject to cataract. Respecting his statement that wine .ind spirituous liquors promote its occurrence, I may observe, that the disease does not appear to be particularly frequent among the drunken classes of society in London. [It has been the opinion of many writers that the opacity of the lens termed cataract is equivalent to its death, and it is pretty generally supposed that the cataract of age is marasmus of the lens. The true nature of the changes taking place in cataract have of late been carefully investigated by Dr. Robert Taylor, Stellwag, Robin, Testelin, and Lohmeyer, and their observations have thrown considerable light upon the subject. Dr. Taylor has published his researches in the seventh vol. of the Transactions of the Patho- logical Society of London. The cataracts exa- mined were from patients varying from forty to seventy-seven years of age, the majority being of the variety called " cortical," in which the opacity commences in the superficies of the lens: a few being nuclear—in which the opacity begins in the nucleus. It is stated by Dr. Taylor that in cortical cata- ract, the superficial la3'ers of the lens are con- verted into a soft grey semi-fluid pulp ; the tubes that have escaped disintegration separate from each other, and break into short fragments with the slightest touch of the needle, thus contrasting strongly with the tubes of the healthy lens which are tough and elastic, and cohere firmlj'. Indica- tions of a similar change were foimd in the super- ficial layers of nuclear cataracts. A still more remarkable change of consistence takes place in the nucleus of both varieties. In the, healthy lens it is known to increase in density with advancing years, but does not exceed the con- sistence ofstrong jelly, and however highly coloured it may be, isjclear, sparkling, and transparent. * In cataract, when fully developed, the nucleus becomes exceedingly hard and dry, the divided surfaces being rough, dry, and crumbling, and this change does not seem to have reference to the age of the patient. The soft grey pulp of which the outer part of a cataract is composed, presents a quantity of fine molecular matter, partly floating free, partly ag- gregated in masses, and partly adhering to the exterior of the tubes, so as to render them more or less opaque. This appears to be the result of the coagulation of the albuminous fluid in which all the lens tissues are immersed. More or less change is also found in the large cells of the superficies of the lens ; many are ren- dered opaque by fine granular matter in their in- terior ; others are bent, twisted, and crumpled. They are generally yellow in colour, and the tinge is deepest in those which are most altered. Dr. Taylor also found a number of irregular cells, thick, hard, and highly refractive, in every speci- men of cataract which ho examined. The tubes of the cortex were softened and studded with minute granules. The tubes of the nucleus were hard and brittle, without cohesion, and loaded with fine granular deposit. Their outline irre- gular, and displaying sometimes fissures, at other times tubercles and nodules ; many of the tubes were shrivelled as if atrophied. In none of these cataracts were oil-globules, crystals of cholesterine, nor other evidence of fatty degeneration discovered, though these are common in fluid cataracts. Dr. Taylor remarks that the healthy lens contains a considerable quantity of fatty matter, the cholesterine of which has a strong tendency to separate by crystallisation alter death. Its appearance in old disorganised lenses, may, therefore, be regarded rather as a physical than a pathological phenomenon. M. Kletzinsky has pointed out some interesting facts connected with the combustion of the dried crystalline and the dried cataract. The combus- tion of the crystalline yielded l'.")G25 per cent, of ashes, that of the cataract 2-!J000 per cent. In K 1! 4