HERNIA. 945 frequently descending out of the abdominal ring, or from just below Poupart's ligament, or else out of the navel; but occasionally from various other situations, as will be presently explained. The swelling often originates suddenly, except in the circumstances above related, and it is subject to a change of size, being smaller when the patient lies down on his back, and larger when he stands up or holds his breath. It frequently diminishes when pressed, and grows large again when the pressure is removed. Its size and tension often increase after a meal, or when the patient is flatu- lent. In consequence of the unnatural situation of the bowels, many patients with hernia are occasional)}' troubled with colic, constipation, and vomiting.. Sometimes, however, the functions of the viscera seem to suffer little or no interrup- tion. .Sometimes the contained parts may be known by the symptoms. But, as Mr. Lawrence justly remarks, this discrimination is often difficult, and even impossible, when the hernia is old, large, and very tense; for, in cases of this description, the viscera experience considerable changes in their figure and state, while the thickened hernial sac prevents an accurate examination by the hand. (On Ruptures, p. 46, ed. .5.) If the case be an enlerocek, and tlie portion of intestine be small, the tumor is small in proportion; but though small, if the bowel be distended with wind, inflamed, or have any degree of stricture made on it, it will be tense, resist the impression of the finger, and give pain upon being handled. On the contrary, if there be no stricture, and the intestine sufi"er no degree of inflammation, let the prolapsed piece be of what length it may, and the tumor of whatever size, the tension will be little, and no pain will attend the liandiing of it; upon the patient's coughing, it will feel as if it were blown into; and in general it will be found very easily returnable. {Poll.) A gurgling noise is often made when the bowel is ascending. An enterocele is also generally characterised by the uniformity of its surface and its elasticity. If the hernia be an epiplocele or one of the omental kind, the tumor has a more flabby and a more unequal feel; it is in general perfectly indo- lent, is more inelastic, and (if in the scrotum) is more oblong and less round, than the swelling occasioned in the same situation by an intestinal hernia; and if the quantity bo largo, and the pa- tient adult, it is in some measure distinguishable by its greater weight. In very young subjects, the contents of a hernia are generally intestine, nnd but seldom omentum. (Sir A. Cooper, Lec- tures, vol. iii. p. 8 ) If the case be an cniaro-epiphcelc, that is, one consisting of both intestine and omentum, the cha- racteristic marlcs will be less clear than in either of the simple cases; but as the smooth slippery sur- face of the intestine generally makes its reduction easier than that of the omentum, wo may infer, with Mr. Lawrence, " that if a portion of the con- tents slip up quickly and with noise, leaving be- hind something which is loss easily reduced, the case is probably an entero-epiplocele," (Op. cit. ed. 4, p. 47.) On the subject of prognosis, the age and consti- tution of the subject, the date of the disease, its being free or not free from stricture or inflammation, the symptoms which attenij it, and the probability or improbability of its being returnable, necessarily produce much variety, If the subject be an in- fant, the case is not often attended with much difficulty or hazard, the reduction being easy as well as the descent; and though, from neglect or inattention, the bowel may fall down again, yet it is easily replaced, and mischief seldom produced. Mr. Pott says seldom, because he has seen an in- fant, one year old, die of a strangulated hernia, which had not been down two days, with all the symptoms of mortfied intestine. (For other exam- ples of strangulated hernia in very young infants, refer to Gooch's Chir. Works, vol. ii. p. 33; Law rence On liuplures, p. 77, edit. 4; Edinh, Med. and Surgical Journal, vol. iii. p. 470, &c.) " If the patient be adult, and in the vigour of life, the con- sequences of neglect, or of maltreatment, are more to be feared than at any other time, for reasons too obvious to need relating. The great and principal mischief to be apprehended in an intestinal hernia, is an inflammation of the gut, and an obstruction to the passage of the aliment and faeces through it, which inflammation and obstruction are generally produced by a stricture made on the intestine. In very old people the symptoms do not usually make such rapid progress, both on account of the laxity of their frame and theii- more languid circulation, and also because their ruptures are most frequently of ancient date, and the passage a good deal dilated; but then, on the other hand, it should also be re- membered that they are by no means exempt from inflammatory symptoms; and that if such should come on, the infirmity of old age is no favourable circumstance in the treatment which may become necessary." {Poll.) If the disease be recent, and the patient young, immediate reduction and constant care to prevent another protrusion, are the only means whereby it is possible to obtain a perfect cure. If the case be an epiplocele, that has formed gradually, it seldom occasions any bad symptoms, though its weight will sometimes render it very troublesome. But if it be produced suddenly, by efl'ort or violence, that is, if a considerable piece of the omentum slip down at once, it will sometimes prove painful and cause very disagreeable com- plaints ; tlie connection between the omentum, stomach, colon, &c. being such as to render the sudden descent of a large piece of the first some- times productive of nausea, vomiting, and colic. When the piece of omentum is engaged in such a degree of stricture <as to prevent the circulation of blood through it, it will sometimes, by becoming gangrenous, be the occasion of very bad symptoms and even of death, as all surgeons of experience have seen. But even though the portion of the omentum should remain uninjured in the scrotum yet, as Pott correctly relates, it renders the patient constantly liable to hazard from another quarter; it makes it every moment possible for a piece of intestine to slip into the same sac, and thereby add to the case all the trouble and all the danger arising frona an intestinal rupture. It is by no means an uncommon thing for a piece of gut to be added to a rupture which had for many years been merely omental, and for that piece to bo strangulated and require immediate help. " An old omental hernia is often rendered not reducible, more by nn alteration made in the state of the prolapsed piece than by its quantity. It is very common for that part of the omentum which 3?