916 HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. 3 n2 wiis afterwards taken to St. George's Hospital, talking and reeling like a drunken man. On the following day he complained of headache, but was otherwise well. He continued without any symp- toms until about five in the morning of the 12th of November, when some of the patients in the same ■ward heard him talking incoherently. The man became insensible, his breathing stertorous, and pupils dilated. Blood was taken from the arm, but the symptoms were not relieved, and he died in about half an hour from the commencement of the attack. On examining tlie contents of the cranium after death, a thin layer of blood was found extravasated in the cells between the tunica arachnoides and pia matei-, where those mem- branes cover the posterior part of the two hemi- spheres of the cerebrum. In the lower part of the right anterior lobe of the cerebrum the substance of the brain had been ruptured, and underneath this part, between the dura mater and the tunica arach- noides, there was a collection of about two ounces of blood. This last had all the appearance of a re- cent extravasation, and seemed to give a satisfac- tory explanation of the sudden alteration in the symptoms which immediately preceded the pa- tient's dissolution." Symptoms of Compression.—We now proceed to the consideration of the symptoms which indi- cate compression of the brain, and to point out the means of distinguishing it from concus- sion. In allusion to concussion it has been stated that its essence appears to consist in the momentary discharge of nervous power from the brain, characterised generally by a sudden depri- vation, partial or complete, of sense and the power of motion; but that still the excito-motory functions of the nervous system continue in a state of acti- vity, as is evinced by a continuation of the respi- ratory movements, &c., and the organic system of nerves continue their office, although perceptibly impaired in energy : this is shown by the con- tinued though feeble action of the heart, &c. Whereas in compression, although to a certain extent some analogy may be found to the physio- logical eifects of concussion, yet an essential diffe- rence exists between them. What then are the signs of compression ? They may be easily comprehended by reference to an ordinary case. A person receives a blow upon the head by which a portion of the cranium is forced in upon the brain, and the first effect is a sudden deprivation of sense and the power of motion; in fact, he is stunned. An interval of longer or shorter duration elapses, when warmth returns to the surface of the body, and signs of returning sensibility begin to manifest themselves by pain in the head, as expressed by the patient con- tinually raising his hand to the seat of depression. Besllessness and jactitation sometimes are present, or, as is more commonly the case, the patient lies partially comatose and stupid as if inebriated, and although capable of being roused when loudly called to, he returns an unwilling monosyllabic reply ■when a question is put to him. Paralysis, partial or complete, of some muscle or class of muscles is a very common attendant on compression. The breathing is slow, and in slight cases perfectly free sligh tly stertorous, the stertor being iicrcoptible at eacli inspiration. The face is generally fluslied. The pulse is slow, perhaps only forty (or even less) in the minute, and labouring. The eyelids are closed, and the irides are remarkably sluggish in their movements, and but feebly contract on the application of strong light transmitted through the pupil; the pupils are usually dilated. The tempera- ture of the body is natural, or is sunk somewhat below the ordinary standard. Such are the symp- toms indicating pressure upon the brain, at least in the less severe forms of the disease, and they re- semble in some respects those of the second stage of concussion. But to proceed with the signs of compression of a higher degree. The insensibility becomes abso- lute, as is exemplified by the loss of common sensation, by the total loss of hearing and sight, by the dilated state of the pupils, by the roll- ing upwards of the eyes, or by permanent stra- bismus. The muscular system generally is more deeply affected, and hemiplegia, at first partial, is now complete: in some cases the patient is para- plegic. No reflex action can be excited by tickling the skin of the limbs of the affected side. The sphincter ani relaxes and permits the involuntary discharge of the fseces, and the urine, at first re- tained, now runs off involuntarily. The tempera- ture of the body subsides. The pulse becomes slower and weaker. The respiration is deeper, much more laborious, and loudly stertorous. The face is bloated, or, as the disease increases, livid and pale. The paralysed side of the face flaps to and fro at each respiratory effort; the patient foams at the mouth; and "the breath is emitted from the corner of the mouth like a whiff or puff of smoke." (Guihrie.) Slight muscular twitchings or even partial convulsions frequently occur in com- pression. Towards the termination of the case the pulse increases in frequency, and occasionally becomes intermittent and exceedingly irregular; the respi- ratory movements are accelerated, and the tempe- rature falls. I have purposely omitted to mention vomiting as a sign of pressure: it indicates, when present, a return of sensibility, as is beautifully il- lustrated by the observations of Sir Benjamin Brodie, who says that he has known the patient to become sick and vomit immediately after the depressed bone was elevated. This point has been curiously illustrated by an experiment of Majendie, who arrested vomiting by pressure on the medulla oblongata of an animal after it had been excited by emetics. Such a combination of symptoms implies an im- mense amount of compression from which no reco- very can be expected, and in many cases may be regarded as the joint effect of concussion, compres- sion, and laceration of the brain. Although the symptoms of concussion and com- pression present some analogy, which renders it dif- ficult to make a distinction between them, yet, by a careful analysis, it will be found that they differ in many important respects. Very great importance should be attached to the durationof concussion as a simple disease of the brnin resulting from injury; for it is in those cases where insensibility continues for many days, that the diffi- culty and importance in distinguisliing the symp- toms are so palpable. Is it possible to fix a liniit to the duration of concussion ? Probably not : at least, wo are quite sure from a considerable ex- perience that the effects of simple concussion may continue for many days, and leave no trace of any permanent mischief behind. It may be useful to add a brief comparison of the