WOUNDS. 827 GUNSHOT exist. It is this which, in many instances, tlireatens the life of the sufferer, and which must be the first attended to ; the second point is to prevent and sub- due inllanimation of the lungs and pleura. In few other cases can repeated and large bleedings be so advantageously practised. Here there will not be so much danger of an extravasation of blood as in stabs; auJ, even if an effusion of that iluid were to happen within the cavitj' of the pleura, the opening would generally be sufficient for its escape. In this last kind of case, when attended in the beginning with bleeding, Baron Larrey particularly insists upon the advantage of immediately bring- ing the edges of the wound together with adhesive plaster, instead of leaving it open as advised by the generality of writers ; and he endeavours to prove, that this immediate closure of the wound has great effect in stopping the hajmorrhage from the pulmonary vessels. Supposing an extravasa- tion of blood in the chest were to follow, he argues, that it would be better to let it out afterwards by a suitable incision, than to suffer the patient to perish of hijemorrhage at once by not closing the wound, (il/em. de Chir. Mil. t. iv. p. 151, &c.) Dr. Hennen is in favour of the same practice. {On Mililaty Sur(jerij, p. 373, ed, 3.) [Mr. Guthrie is of the same opinion. In large penetrating wounds of the chest, with injury of the lung, he says, " It has been observed that the patient breathes most easily when the external wound has been covered, and has been hardly able to breathe when it was opened, which is attributed to the air getting into that side of the thorax in inspiration, instead of entering the lung by the trachea. If the wound admit of being well closed, the difficulty of breathing diminishes ; adhesion may take place, and the inflammatory action within the chest may terminate." Writers generally arc of the same opinion, and it would appear to be the established and correct line of procedure to adopt in all cases, in the first instance. ( Vide Commentaries, edit. 6, f. 453.)] In a penetrating gunshot wound of the chest the surgeon should extract all extraneous substances, and splinters of bone within reach, and even dilate the external wound for this pur- pose, if necessary. Light unirritating dressings are then to be applied. The patient may now be (comparatively speaking) easy, until the spitting of blood, and danger of suffocation, from inward hfemorrhage, come on, when the lancet must be employed ; "and if, by this treatment, repeated as often as circumstances demand, the patient sur- vives the first twelve hours, hopes may begin to be entertained of his recovering from the imme- diate effects of hajmorrhage," and until this danger is over, as Dr. Hennen truly observes, the lancet is the only thing which can save life. After- wards, when the paroxysms of pain, the sense of suffocation, and the return of hiemorrhage, have become more moderate, digitalis may bo proscribed with the most beneficial effect; and if the cough he very troublesome, no medicine is more useful than the spermaceti mixture with opium. [Opinions seem to have undergone great change with reference to the large amount of bleeding ne- cessary in gunshot wounds of the chest. The old Peninsular surgeons seemed to have reduced their patients to the last stage of weakness by repeated bleedings. Amongst the moderns we find Dr. I"'razcr(8ec I'cnclraUmj Wounds of the Chest, p. lUi, 127) adducing strong arguments to show that bleed- ing is not only not necessary, but very often inju- rious; and I cannot forbear quoting the following remarks from The Surgical History of tlie Crimean War, by Dr. Matheiv, on tliis subject. The whole article is replete with masterly observations. He says, " Supposing the first danger of death by ex- cessive loss of blood not to have arisen, in conse- quence of no large vessel having been wounded, or this danger to have passed over, the means adopted by nature to repair the mischief appear to be the exudation of plastic material glueing the various parts involved in the injury together, and thus isolating them; and the more effectually and per- fectly she does this, the greater is the chance of safety to the patient; and, as before stated, in dis- cussing the subject of wounds of the head, we be- lieve venesection (for any other pmpose than that of a styptic, as pointed out above) to be not only useless, but positively and actively injurious, as tending to prevent or render less perfect the ad- hesive process. The doctrine of the older surgeons, that adhesion depended upon a less degree or smaller amount of the same process which produces pus, and that as inflammation was almost certain to follow these injuries, prophylactic bleedings, to as great an extent as could be borne ivith safety to life, shoidd be emploj'ed, as tending to limit the inflammation to the less degree, or the adhesive stage, seems not at all tenable in the present day. Adhesion and pus formation seem to depend upon two essentially different processes, although the term inflammation has been applied to both; and although we are at present not fully acquainted with the nature of the difference, the opinion ap- pears to be daily gaining ground, that the too early abstraction of large quantities of blood favours the latter, while there can be little question that it impedes the former process. We are, however, by no means prepared to state that exceptional cases of plethora, in which such prophylactic venesection may be beneficial, do not occasionally occur; but they appear to be rare, and indeed are not likely to exist among soldiers on active field-service. Practical experience also, to whicli all theoretical opinions must give way, seems, during the late war, to point in this direction, and to do so inde- pendent of, and making allowance for, the cachectic state before alluded to, into which the bulk of the army had at one time fallen." Mr, G. Lawson (see Gunshot Wounds of iho Thom,K) gives it as his opinion, that bleeding in those injuries is not called for as recommended by Mr. Guthrie, Hennen, and the older army surgeons, and certainly was not all applicable to the cases occurring in the late war in the Crimea. After the innuodiate danger of haGmorrlino-e either from the wound or the lungs has passed, our attention may be required for the removal of frag- ments of bone projecting into the cavity, which nuiy irritate or wound the lung; for, as has been before remarked, these wounds seldom occur with- out fracture of one or more ribs, and any foreign substance within reacli must be carefully looked for and withdrawn. Enlargement of the wound may be requisite for this purpose.] When a ball lodges, without falling into the chest, it may lie either in the substance of the parietes of liiis cavity between the nuiscles, or in one of the intercostal spaces, and continue tlierc a very long time witiuuit causing much incon- venience, or making its way outward, But,