of tlic limb were considerably distended; a bougie could readily be passed from the popliteal into the posterior tibial artery which participated in the dilatation, and from this last artery the instrument could be passed into the vein, through a cyst situated on the inside of the leg below the knee. (See Dorsefs Elements of Suirjcni, vol. ii. p. 210. Philadelphia, 1813.) In November, 1835, Mr. Perry, surgeon to the Marylebone Infiimary, communicated to the Royal Medical and ChirurgicalSociety of London, the history of a remarkable case of varicose aneu- rism. It was a case in which death ensued six days after an operation for aneurism of the femoral artery, in consequence of the sac having commu- nicated with the accompanying vein. I believe this patient was shown to me some months before the operation, when, from the peculiar thrilling sensation and hissings then perceptible, I inti- mated my expectation, that a communication existed between the femoral vein and the arterJ^ This is not the only instance on record, where a similar condition was spontaneously established between a great vein and a neighbouring artery, for Mr. Syme, of Edinburgh, has published the par- ticulars of a case, in which a free communication was found between the descending vena cava and the aorta, close to the bifurcations, attended with a considerable swelling of the latter vessel. (See JSdin. Med. and SitrgicalJoitrn. No. 108.) Professor Scarpa, Dr. Hunter, B. Bell, Pott, and Guattani, mention cases of aneurismal varix, which remained stationary for fourteen, twentj-, and thirty-five years. Several cases are re- lated by Brambilla, Guattani, and Monteggia, of a cure having been obtained by means of compression. But, as this method of cure, if it does not succeed, exposes the patient to the dan- ger of a complication of the disease with an aneu- rism, it ought not to be employed, except in recent cases, where the tumor is small, and in slender patients. Sir Astley Cooper mentions in his Lectures, that he once cured an aneurismal varix in a young lady, by compression with an instru- ment ; and in the Museum of University College is a preparation, given to that institution by Mr. Oldknow, illustrating the power of pressure to effect a cure, even when the disease consists of a varix and a false aneurism together. In this preparation, the communication between the vein and the subjacent aneurism, and that between the aneurism and the artery, arc obliterated ; while the remains of a small sac are discernible between the artery and vein. The case was treated by Mr. Oldknow. I have seen one example cured by compression ; the case was recent, and in a wo- man about forty, who had imprudently suffered herself to be bled by a farrier. Two cases are recorded, in which it was neces- sary to operate in consequence of the disease being joined with aneurism of the artery,and even burst- ing, The sacs were opened, and a ligature applied both above and below the aperture in the artery. (See Park, in Medical Fads and Ohs. vol. iv. p. 1II ; and P/iijsick, in Medical Museum, vol. i. p. 6,5.) The latter form of the disease, which is particularly noticed by Dr. Hunter, and also by my friend Mr. Hodgson, is readily understood by recollecting, that the artery and vein, when punc- tured together, do not always unite in such a manner as to let the arterial blood have a direct RISM. 233 passage into the vein ; but they may be separated for some distance from each other, so that the blood passes from the artery into the adjacent areolar tissue, where a sac is formed, into which the blood is poured previously to its entrance into the vein. (See Gihson^s Institutes of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 158. Philadelphia, 1825.) In the winter of 1819, I heard a case read to the Medical and Chirurgical Societj' of London, from Mr. Atkinson of York, who had found it necessary to take up the brachial artery, on account of the .large and increasing size of an aneurismal varix ; mortification of the limb ensued. In the Museum of University College is a pre- paration taken from a person on whom Sir Charles Bell operated for a venous aneurism, and who died of gangrene of the lirab. In this case, there was a high bifurcation of the brachial arter}', and the radial division had been punctured in bleeding. The preparation exhibits a double aneurism ; one being under the fascia, and communicating with the dilated portion of the vein through an opening in that texture. An anastomosing branch, between the radial and tilnar, is seen equal in size to either of them. I believe that the records of surgery prove, that operations for the cure of venous aneu- risms have more frequently been followed by mortification than operations for other aneurisms ; and when it is considered, thattlie extreme part of the limb, even previously to the ligature of the artery, is deprived of a great quantity of the arte- rial blood, which ought to be distributed to it, that venous blood gets into the artery, and that it has a difficulty in maintaining its proper temperature, the fact seems accounted for. These considerations, joined with the recollection that the disease, after attaining a certain size, generally remains station- ary through life, ought to make surgeons decline an operation, except when the increase of the false aneurism, or an unusual degree of annoyance from the swelling, justifies the opposite line of conduct. Here the artery, then, has a ligature applied to it under very disadvantageous circumstances. When an arterial trunk is tied, soon after the wound of an artery, as M. Bresohet observes, hopes may be entertained of the member preserving its vitality, because its several textures are in a favourable state for receiving blood form the vessels of small calibre. The anastomoses between the trunk of the vessel, above and below the ligature, possess the advantage of having the lower portion of the artery sound, and fitted for carying on the cir- culation. But when a ligature is applied to an artery for venous aneurism of long standing, the part of the artery situated below the disease is di- lated ; its coats are weakened ; they no longer possess the contractility requisite to carry on the circulation ; and the vitality of the tissues being thus reduced.the fluids stagnate in them and the parts are soon seized with grangrene or paralysis. (SecilA'm. CIdr. sur DijfcrodesEupcces d'Aveiiri/smes, p. 10!).) If the limb be not seriously afl'ected'with atrophy and a diminution of its temperature, sensibility^ and power of action, the wisest plan is to let the disease alone, or, at nu)st, only to make gentle equable pressure on the limb, and on the point corresponding to the wound of the artery. In the opposite circumstances, says M. Hreschet, a sur- gical operation is indicated, which should not consist in the simple ligature of the artery between the heart and the wound, because tlio return of