646 external emollient applications, before we try to replace the eye, and the reduction of this organ is afterwards to be effected in a gradual manner. or more of the EXOPHTHALMIA. When the optic nerve, and one muscles of the eye are torn, no hope can be enter- tained that the eyesight and motion of the organ will ever be regained. But this degree of injury, as Richter observes, cannot always be immediately detected, because the optic nerve and muscles are concealed by the conjunctiva ; and, if the nature of the case were known, still it would be advisable to replace the eyeball. When the instrument with which the eye has been pushed out of its socket is blunt and thick like a finger, a stick, a foil, &c. the eyeball itself always sustains a violent contusion, which brings on vehement inflammation, and lessens or destroys all hope that, after the reduction, the eyesight will be restored. Sometimes an extravasation of blood in the orbit occurs, the iris is lacerated, the cornea burst, and a part of the humours of the eye dis- charged. Although, under such circumstances, It IS scarcely to be expected that the eyesight can be recovered, yet, it is proper to reduce the eye, because, should the organ be destroyed by suppuration, or the loss of its humours, the de- formity may be obviated by an artificial eye, which 13 not the case when the eye has been cut away. It is also to be considered, that the mis- chief often seems to be worse than it really is, and the eyesight is sometimes regained, contrary to all expectation. After the reduction of the eye, the first care of the surgeon should be to prevent and diminish in- flammation. In some cases, the inflammation is slight ; while, in others, especially when the eye- ball has been severely struck, it is extremely violent. All the usual antiphlogistic means, both general and topical, are to be employed, and, of the latter, Richter says, astringents are the best, as the inflammation arises from the contusion and stretching which the parts have suffered. The possible consequences of inflammation, such as sup puration, opacity of the cornea, &c. are to be treated according to the rules laid down in other parts of this dictionary. (See Cornea, Opacity op; Hypopium ; Ophthalmia.) In general, the sight is restored in proportion as the inflammation is diminished. Should this not happen, after the ophthalmia has been entirely removed, the surgeon must try what effect such remedies as stimulate the nerves will have upon the optic nerve. 3. The third cause of exophthalmia is a preter- natural tumor in the orbit or neighbouring parts. The swelling, as it enlarges, gradually pushes the eyeball out of its socket. The tumors, which may be formed in the orbit, are of several kinds. The principal, however, are encysted swellings, which contain either fat, an aqueous fluid, a pappy substance, or a thick matter. Sometimes, the cellular tissue in the orbit is affected with indura- tion and swelling, so as to force the eye partly or completely out of this cavity. Adipose swellings occupy the interspace of the recti muscles, emerge between the globe and the orbitar circumference, and have an oblong figure. When the conjunctiva is freely divided, the latty mass 18 easily drawn forwards with a hook, and S'lp! 225 ) ^ "■f An abscess in the orbit may cause a protrusion of the eyeball {Pdher.) Exostoges may hav- the same effect. Sir Astley Cooper has IJ^Ur one case which proved fatal, in consequen e ol he exostosis making its way to the brain through the orbital plate of the os frontis. (SuSl Essays, part i. p. 157.) Mr. Guthrie liasTeTn two instances: m one, the disease attained the size of a large marble, and then became stetionarv • m the other, it was much larger, and a portion U had been ineffectually removed by means of a ho iron, which increased the inconvenience without giving any relief. Hence, if an opera tion were deemed advisable, Mr. Guthrie would prefer the cautious use of a small chisel or saw [Operative Surgery of tlie Eye, p. 154.) This' author 18 at the same time aware of the which M. in which M. Brossaut brought about the exi foliation of a considerable part of an exostosis of the OS planum and internal angular process with caustic, so that the eye returned into its place, and ttie cure was completed. {Mem. de I'Acad. dc Chir. t. V. p. 171, 4to.) In the records of sur- gery may be found examples, in which the dis- placement of the eye was produced by a tumor that grew out of the frontal sinus. (See Lange^i- hecks Neue Bill. bd. ii. p. 247.) In some cases in consequence of suppuration in the antrum the lower part of the orbit is raised, and the' eye forced out of its place. Fungous diseases of the antrum may occasion the same mischief. (See Parisian Chir. Journal, vol. i. p. 104, &c.) Schmidt records two cases of exophthalmia, pro- duced by an hydatid of the lachrymal gland. One had a fatal termination; but, in the other, a puncture gave vent to an ounce of clear fluid, and cured the protrusion of the eye ; but the eyesight was lost {Lleber die Kranklieiten des Tkr'dnenorgans,-o. 6A Farther particulars of the latter case may be seen m Mr. Guthrie's work, p. 157.) Not long ago, Langenbeck extracted from the frontal sinus of a girl, a large hydatid, which had forced the outer table considerably forwards, and depressed the orbital plate of the os frontis so far, that the eyeball was propelled as low as the ex- tremity of the nose. After the front of the sinus had been perforated, and the hydatid removed, there was a cavity left two inches and a half in depth. {Neue Bill. b. ii. p. 247, Hanover, 1819.) My friend Mr. Lawrence mentioned to me a re- markable case, which presented itself at the London Eye Infirmary: it was an exophthalmia, which arose from a collection of hydatids in the orbit, and was cured by making an incision, and afterwards promoting their discharge. In all these examples, the eyeball is displaced from the orbit gradually, and vision is at length impeded. Instances, how- ever, are on record, where the siglit Avas never lost, though the eye was protruded for years. (See Richler\ Chirurg. Bibliothck, bd. iv. st. ii. p. 243. Wdte's Cases in Surgery, -p. 1^5.) In one instance, the sight was not at all lessened, and the iris retained its natural mobility. Langenbeck, Neue Dibl. bd. ii. p. 245.) Experience proves, also, that after the reduction, the motion of the eye and power of seeing may be regained in cases where the eye has been gra- duallj' pushed out of the orbit, and been displaced a considerable time, even as long as several years, during all which period vision was lost. {Acrell, Brocklesby, in Med. Obs. and Inquiries, vol. iv. p. 371.) Langenbeck relates n case of exophthalmia