AMPUTATION. 96 cuboid can be retained. For these it is almost im- possible to lay down rules with precision, but the necessary modifications in the incisions will suggest themselves to every intelligent surgeon. Mr. Syme objects to partial amputations through the tarsus in cases of caries, on account of the liability to recurrence of the disease in those bones which remain, although they may appear perfectly sound at the time of the operation. He states that he once performed three secondary ampiitations, within a period of twelve months, upon stumps in which Chopart's operation had been practised. {Lancet, vol. i. 1855, p. 307.) This objection, does not hold good in cases of injury, in which these partial amputations through the foot have, perhaps, their most valuable application.] [Amputation at the Ankle-Joint.] [In cases of caries of the tarsal bones, beyond the limits of Chopart's operation, and in many cases of injury to the foot, amputation at the ankle-joint is now performed. This amputation has during the last fifteen years been brought prominently into notice by Mr. Syme, and the name of this gentleman is now very com- monly associated with it. Previously to this, it had been practised occasionally by continental surgeons; in the last century by Sedillier, Rossi, and others, and in the present century by M. Baudens; so little, however, was it thought of, that in former editions of this work, it was passed over altogether without notice. The principal novel feature in the method adopted by Mr. Syme, was the procuring a flap " from the sole of the foot and thick integument of the heel, so that the dense textures provided by nature for supporting the weight of the body, might be still employed for the same purpose." Previous to this, the thin skin from the sides of the joint or from the instep, had been made use of to form the flaps, and, consequently, the stump was not well adapted to bear continuous pressure. Originally too the malleoli were allowed to re- main, so that it is not surprising that the results were unsatisfactory. The removal of the malleoli was first suggested by M. Baudens ; but in his ope- rations the flap was cut in the form of a gaiter from the skin on the dorsum of the foot, and was turned downwards over the ends of the bones. The deli- cate integument from the dorsum of the foot was not likely to answer well as a covering for a stump, which must necessarily have to bear the whole weight of the body. The following is Mr. Syme's account of his first operation, Sept. 8, 1842, on a patient aged sixteen, with caries of the tarsal bones. " I cut across the integuments of the instep in a curved direction, with the convexity towards the toes, and then across the sole of the foot, so that the incisions were nearly opposite to each other. The flaps thus formed were next separated from tlieir subjacent connections, which was easily effected, except at the heel where the firmness of the tex- ture occasioned a little difficulty. The disarticu- lation being then readily completed, the malli olar projections were removed by means of cutting pliers. The patient sufi'ered no constitutional dis- turbance or alarming symptom after the operation. A small slough separated from the edge of the lower flap, in which, as well as the upper one, I found it necessary, during the liealing process, to make a counter opening for the free discharge of matter." The patient left the hospital on the '^ud December. The wound was soundly liealed ; "and any degree of pressure could be borne by the stump, which had a round form well suited for the adapta- tion of a boot or artificial foot, and was strongly protected from external injury by its thick integu- ments." {Land, and Ed. Month. Journ. Feb. 1843). In 1844, Mr. Syme published the following further directions, having found that in his first operations, the flap was made unnecessarily long. " The incisions across the instep and sole of the foot should be curved, the convexity forwards, and exactly opposite each other. A line drawn round the foot, midway between the head of the fifth metatarsal bone and the malleolus externus, will show their extent anteriorly, and they should meet a little further back, opposite the malleol.-ir projections of the tibia and fibula. Care should be taken to avoid cutting the posterior tibial artery be- fore it divides into its plantar branches, as in two cases where I did so there was partial sloughing of the flap. If the ankle-joint is sound, the malleolar processes should be removed with cutting pliers, but if the articular surfaces of the tibia and fibula be diseased, a thin slice of these bones should be sawn off. The edges of the wound should be stitched together and lightly dressed. When the cure is completed, the stump has a conical shape, and has for its apex or central point of pressure, the thick integument which covered the heeh" {Edin. Med. Journ. Aug. 1844.) Subsequently to this he again slightly modified his incisions so as further to reduce the size of the flap. "The foot being placed at a right angle with the leg, a line drawn from the centre of one malleolus to that of the other, directly across the sole of the foot, will show the proper extent of the posterior flap. The knife should be entered close up to the fibular malleolus, and carried to a point on the same level on the opposite side, which will be a little below the tibial malleolus. The anterior incisions should join the two points just mentioned at an angle cf 45° to the sole of the foot and long axis of the leg. In dissecting the posterior flap, the operator should place the fingers of his left hand upon the heel, while the thumb rests upon the edge of the integuments, and then cut between the nail of the thumb and the tuberosity of the OS calcis, so as to avoid lacerating the soft parts, which he, at the same time, gently, but steadily presses back, until he. exposes and divides the tendo achillis. The foot should be disarticulated before the malleolar projections are removed, which it is always proper to do, and which may be most easily effected by passing a knife round the ex- posed extremities of the bones, and then sawing oft" a thin slice of the tibia connecting the two processes." {Ed. Monthly Journ. 184C.) " It is of the greatest importance in separating the flap of skin fromtlie os calcis. to cut parallel to the bone, since when the flap is detached from the bone, its only supply of nourishment must be tlie branches which run'through it parallel to its sur- face, and if instead of keeping parallel to the surface, the operator cuts on the flap, he will by scoring it in this way necessarily cut across these branches." Very light 'dressings should be used for the first few days,as it is important to avoid as much as possible the application of pressure ; " tiglit