driven into the hollow of the axilla, under the wasted, but the triceps, and all the muscles of the pectoral muscles, so as to separate the two cor- responding ribs, and pass between them. The head of the bone surmounted this obstacle, and penetrated entirely into tlie cavity of the tho- rax, pushing before it the adjacent portion of the pleura. Every possible effort was made in vain to reduce this extraordinary dislocation. Tile urgent symptoms which arose were dis- sipated by bleeding, warm bathing, and antiphlo- gistic remedies. The arm, however, remained at a distance from the side, to which condition the patient became gradually habituated ; and after several years of suffering and oppression, he at length experienced no inconvenience. The patient was about sixteen or seventeen when he met with the accident ; and he lived to the age of thirty-one, when he died of some disease, which had no connection with the dislocation. His physicians were anxious to ascertain the nature of this curious case, of v.'hich they had been able to form only an imperfect judgment. They were much surprised to find, upon opening the body, the head of the humerus lodged in the chest, surrounded by the pleura, and its neck, closely embraced by the two ribs above specified. They were still more astonished to find, instead of a hard spherical body covered with cartilage, only a very soft membranous ball, which yielded to the slightest pressure of the finger. The cartilage and osseous texture of the whole portion of the humerus, contained within the cavity of the chest, had entirely disappeared. Of the humerus, there remained only some membranous rudiments of its head, and a great part of tliese seemed to belong to the pleura costalis. " (Mem. de CUr. Milit. t. I ii. p. 405—407.) [Complications—Dislocations of the shoulder may be complicated with fracture of the bones in the immediate neighbourhood of the joint, or with in- jury to the large nerves or blood-vessels of the upper extremity. Dislocation with Fracture.—The frequent occur- rence of fracture of the greater tuberosity of the humerus with dislocation of the shoulder, has been already alluded to. Sometimes the dislocation is associated with fracture of the neck of the hume- rus, anatomical or surgical, or with fracture of the glenoid cavity of the scapula. Tliese latter cases it will be more convenient to speak of in the Eirticle Fracture, to which therefore the reader is re- ; ferred. Injur;/ of Nerves—Paralysis.—One consequence, • mentioned by Avicenna, is a palsy of the upper extremity, arising from the pressure made by the head of the bone upon the axillary plexus of nerves. The paralysis may affect the entire limb, or may be confined to particular portions of it. More often it is not present, or, at any rate, it is not noticed, till two or three days after the accident. Paralysis of the deltoid muscle has been not nnfrequently observed, from injury to the circumflex nerve, which, as Boyer observed, is especially liable to be overstretched. A case has lately come under the observation of the writer, in which, in addition to the circumflex nerve, the musciiln-cutaneous nerve would appear to have been injured. The patient ihaa lost all pov/erof raising the arm from the side, land also of flexing the elbow joint. The deltoid, Lthe biceps, and brachialis anticus muscles are DISLOCATION. 5.37 fore arm, both flexors and extensors, are unaf- fected. In some cases there is loss of sensation, or numbness, tingling or pricking of the skin, in addi- tion to the muscular paralysis, but more frequently common sensibility is unaffected. Mr, Calla- way has related a case, under the care of Mr. Cock, in which the parts supplied by the median and ulnar nerves were paralysed, both as regards motion and sensation. (Callaway, On the Shoulder Joint,^. 137, 1849,) Laceration of the circumflex nerve was once met with by Mr. Hilton, in a post- mortem examination, where the patient had died from other injuries. (Guy's Hosp. Reports, 1847, vol. v. p. 92.) Sometimes the affection subsides by degrees, disappearing entirely after a longer or shorter period; sometimes it is persistent, the dif- ference depending, no doubt, upon the degree of pressure, stretching, or laceration, to which the nerves have been subjected. Desault twice met with complete paralysis of the Imib; in one of the patients it was permanent, in the other it disappeared at the end of fifteen days. Boyer saw three cases of paralysis of the deltoid, resultmg from the dislocation downwards. In two the affection yielded to the employment of counter- irritants; in the third it persisted for the remainder of the patient's life. M. Nelaton met with one case of paralysis of the deltoid, which was treated vyith large blisters, and disappeared ten days after the reduction of the dislocation. (El. de Pailml Ciiir. t. ii. p. 368.) In the case recorded by Mr, Callaway recovery took place very slowly, and was not complete till nearly two years after the accident. Blisters stimulating liniments, and galvanism, are the mea- sures most likelv to prove beneficial Ivjm-y of Blood-vessels.—U. Nelaton met with a case ot dislocation downwards, where the axillary artery was injured, and an aneurism was the result, for which three months after the accident, ligature of the subclavian artery became necessary. Not- withstanding the ligature, however, the aneurism gave 73\;'"d the patient died. In a case ob- served by M. Berard, the two internal coats of the artery were torn through, and the external coat e ongated into a narrow tube. The artery became obliterated, gangrene took place, and the patient died. Fortunately, these complications are of rare occurrence.] Reduction of Dislocations of the Shoulder Joint — We may refer to two general classes, the infi mtely various means for .the reduction of a dis ocated humerus. The first are designed to push back, by some kind of mechanical force, the head of the bone, into the cavity from which it is dis- placed, either with or without making previous extension. The others are merely intended to disengage the head of the bone ffom the place winch It accidentally occupies, leaving it to be ,,t nito us natural situation by the action of the n cles. I he first nl act nearly i„ the foliowW manner:- Something, placed under the Li f serves as a fulcrum, on which the arm is moved as a lever, the resistance being produced by the ci.slocatcd head of the humerus, while the p^ower ;s applied either to the lower part of this bone or he wnst. The condyles of the humerus bt'in^ drawn downward and inward, the head of the