703 FRACTURE. I Gin. JuiUet 1835.) An instance of an ununited fracture of the tibia was also successfully treated . with a seton by Dr. Browne. (See Dublin Hospital ] Reports, vol. iv. p. 320.) A. very similar case was published by Mr. Boggie. (See Med. Cliir. ■ Trans, vol. vii.) Dr. Molt has treated eleven . cases of ununited fractures in this manner. Of ; these, three were of the femur; three of the tibia, . and five of the humerus. In all, the plan is stated ; to have succeeded perfectly, except in three of the ; humerus, which were afterwards cured by sawing off the ends of the bones. {Amer. Journ.) These results are different from those which might have been expected from the investigations of Sir Ben- jamin Brodie, and the statements of others, con- cerning the success of sawing off the ends of the bone. Instead of several of the foregoing severe and often unsuccessful plans, Mr. Amesbury has tried the influence of local pressure and rest. He maintains the ends of the fracture closely pressed together, the pressure, when the fracture is trans- verse, operating longitudinally, and when oblique, transversely. On this subject. Sir Benjamin Brodie observes, " I do not know that this firm pressure produces the union of the bone by a process at all like that which takes place in the first instance after fracture. I think it more likely that it causes the surfaces to grow together without the provisional callus being formed on the outside. However that may be, I know that in several cases it has succeeded. I have attended two cases with Mr. Amesbury in which this plan was adopted, and in which it succeeded perfectly, I had a patient in St. George's Hospital on whom I tried this method of treatment, and in that case also it succeeded, so that at the end of some weeks the fractured bone, which had been ununited for many months, became completely consolidated. The pressure must here be considerable, so as to give the patient a good deal of pain, yet not suflicient to do him injury." Sir Benjamin Brodie, however, has known of several cases in which this method has failed ; but notwithstanding this fact, he pro- nounces it to be on the whole a more successful plan than any other. A short sling, pads, and a particular apparatus are used accordingly. (On Fractures, p. 236.) Mr. Buchanan, of Hull, has related two cases in which the union of fractures followed a perseverance in the application of tincture of iodine. (On Diseases of Joints, p. 75.) [Instead of the seton, Dieffenbach has proposed to cut down upon and expose one or both ends of the fracture, and then to bore holes in the bone, into which he inserts pegs of ivory, which are to be left in for several weeks in the hope of inducing the necessary amount of reparative action. This method has been adopted occasionally in this country by Messrs. Stanley, Hey, Bowman, and others, in some cases with complete, in others with partial, success. Subcutaneous^ections in the neiglibourhood of the fracture have been practised with success by Mr. Miller, of Edinburgh, and the method is worth trying before resorting to the more serious practice of the seton, or of resection of the ends of the bones. The inflammation thus excited is of the adhesive instead of the suppurative kind, and is therefore attended with little or no risk, while in some cases it may produce sufficient irritation to cause the required effusion of osseous matter.] OF PARTICULAR FRACTURES. Fkactures of the Nasal Bones. These bones, from their situation, are much ex- posed to external violence. The fragments may be displaced, or not. In order to replace them, the surgeon must pass a female catheter, a ring- handled forceps, or any such instrument, into the nostrils, and, using it as a lever, push the fragments outwards ; while with the index finger of the left hand, he prevents them from being pushed out too far. When the fragments are disposed to fall inwards again, some authors advise supporting them with an elastic gum canula, or lint, intro- duced into the nostril; but I am inclined to believe with Sir C. Bell, that no tubes can be employed so as to support the broken bones ; and when these have been replaced, they will not readily change their position, as they are acted upon bj- no muscles. (See Operative Surgery, t. ii. p. 222.) Besides, as Delpech remarks, since the tubes can- not reach the fragments, they cannot support them, and they must be attended with all the inconve- nience of foreign bodies placed in contact with parts already inflamed, or about to become so. (Precis des Mai. Cliir. t. i. p. 222.) As fractures of the ossa nasi are the result of falls, and direct blows on the face, the soft parts are always either contused or Avounded. These fractures are sometimes attended with dangerous symptoms ; depending either upon the concussion of the brain, produced by the same blow which causes the fracture ; or, on the cribriform lamella and the crista galli of the os ethmoides being driven inwards, so as to compress the brain. This last danger, however, some modern surgeons consider as void of foundation ; and whenever the symptoms indicate an affection of the brain, the nature of the case is referred to the intimate connection between the bones of the nose and the os frontis. (Delpech, Precis des Mai. Chir. t. i. p. 221, 8vo. Paris 1816.) Sometimes the fissure extends through the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, and across the fossa for the lachrymal sac, and is attended with dis- charge of blood from the puncta lachrymalia and nostril, and obstruction to the passage of the tears. Mr. Hooper of the London Road had a case in v/hich not only the fissure extended in this way, but the brain received injury from the blow, and the patient died. The accident was produced by a horse-brush being thrown with violence, and striking the face. When there are symptoms of pressure on the brain (see Head, Injuries op,) and the ossa nasi are much depressed, the surgeon must immediately raise them, and endeavour to draw gently forwards the perpendicular process of the os ethmoides, which is connected with the cribriform lamella and crista galli. Perhaps a pair of closed common forceps, introduced into each nostril, might best enable the surgeon to do what is necessary. Bleeding and the antiphlogistic treatment may sometimes be required : for the vicinity of the eye renders it liable to become inflamed ; and when there arc symptoms of injury of the brain, extra- vasation, &c. the necessity of such practice is still more strongly indicated.