1000 HERNIA. syniptom is frequent desire to make water, caused by its imperfect evacuation. The fluctuation might lead to a suspicion of hydrocele; but, in the two cases seen by Sir Astley Cooper, there was no transparency. '{On Hernia, part ii. p. 63.) This civcurastance, together with the return of the urine into the bladder in the pelvis, and the conse- quent desire to make water, on the tumor being compressed, Avill prevent such a mistake. But Bertrand met with a case, in which such recession of the urine could not be made to take place by pressure. Verdier gives a case, in which a cal- culus in the protruded part of the bladder was mistaken for a bubo, and caustic was applied, by which an urinary fistulous opening was produced. As the bladder is only covered in part by the peritoneum, the hernia cystica has no sac; and when complicated with an inguinal hernia, that portion of the bladder which forms the cystic her- nia lies between the intestinal hernia and the sper- matic cord, that is, the intestinal hernia must be anterior to the cystic. The vesical hernia is believed by Sir Astley Cooper to have its origin in a relaxed state of the bladder, and he suspects, that the protrusion may also be promoted by neglect to empty the bladder at the time required. The bladder thus becomes distended laterally ; and then reaches the superior opening of the inguinal canal, through which it is forced by the pressure of the superincumbent viscera, and the action of the diaphragm and abdo- minal muscles. "As the anterior and lateral parts of the bladder are, in some degree, devoid of peritoneal covering, the bladder at first enters the inguinal canal, without bringing that membrane with it; but, as soon as the fundus begins to de- scend, the peritoneum accompanies it; and with the sac, thus formed, intestine and omentum after- wards protrude." (See Sir A. Coojaer, On Hernia, partii. p. 64, ed, 2.) While recent, this kind of hernia is reducible, and should be kept up with a truss. When it is of any date, or has arrived to any considerable size, as Pott remarks, the urine cannot be discharged without lifting up and compressing the scrotum : the outer surface of the bladder is now become adherent to the cellular membrane, and the patient must be contented with a suspensory bag. " In case of complication with a bubonocele, if the operation becomes necessary, great care must be taken not to open the bladder instead of the sac; the latter will always be found to be posterior." Verdier and Sharp have accurately described the cj'stocele. Pott has recorded two cases, which fell under his observation (vol. iii.) Pipelet mentions a cystic hernia in perinseo; and several cases of its occurrence in the female. {Acad, de CIdr. t. iv.) Pott cut into one cystocele by mis- take. Mention is made {Edin. Surg. Journ. vol. iv. p. 512) of a cystic hernia, which protruded between the origins of the levator ani and obtura- tor internus muscles : the tumor made its appear- apce in the pudendum of an old woman. A similar case is published in Sir Astley Cooper's work, as communicated to him by Mr. Burns, of Glasgow. Sir Astley has also recorded the par- ticulars of the dissection of two inguinal cys- toceles. An instance of protrusion of the bladder through a wound, caused by a bullock's horn, is re- corded by Larrey. {Mint de Chir. Mil. t. iv. p. 289.) [There is a preparation of a very large cys- tocele in the Museum of St. Mary's Hospital. It formed during life a tumor in the scrotum, as large as a child's head, concealing the penis. The hernia was of the direct kind, and had existed for twenty years. The man, who was seventy years of age, explained that to empty his bladder he was obliged to press the tumor with his hands. Latterly he had suffered occasionally from retention of urine. The Editor was called to see him on one of these occasions. It required a very long flexible catheter to reach the bladder. He died, worn out by repeated attacks of retention of urine and prostatic disease. On a.post-mortem examination, the blad- derwasfounddivided by the external abdominal ring into an intra-pelvic and an extra-pelvic portion. The' intra-pelvic portion was the smaller of the two. It would hold about half-a-pint of water, and was held down in its position by the fasciae surrounding th& prostate gland and neck of the bladder, so that these parts were but little displaced. There was^ no hernial sac and no protrusion of other viscera. The scrotal portion of the bladder would readily hold a pint of fluid ; it communicated with the pelvic portion by an opening nearly an inch in dia- meter. The epigastric artery was in contact with the outer side of the neck of the sac] IscMatic Hernia.—This disease is very rare. A case, however, which was strangulated, and mi- discovered till after death, is related in Sir A. Cooper's second part of his work on hernia. It was communicated by Dr. Jones, so celebrated for his book on hemorrhage. The disease hap- pened in a young man, aged 27. On opening the abdomen, the ileum was found to have de- scended on the right side of the rectum into the pelvis, and a fold of it was protruded into a small sac, which passed out of the pelvis at the ischia- tic notch. The intestine was adherent to the snc at two points : the strangulated part, and about three inches on each side, were very black. The intestines towards the stomach were much dis- tended with air, and here and there had a livid spot on them. A dark spot was even found on the stomach itself, just Jibove the pylorus. The colon was exceedingly contracted, as far as its sigmoid flexure. A small orifice was found in the side of the pelvis, in front of, but a little above, the sciatic nerve, and on the forepart of the pyri- formis muscle. The sac lay under the gluteus maximus muscle, and its orifice was before the internal iliac artery, below the obturator artery, but above the vein. Sir A. Cooper remarks, that a reducible case might be kept up with a spring- truss, and, that if an operation were requisite, the orifice of the sac should be dilated directly forwards. {On Crural Hernia, 4'0. p. 73.) Fhrenic Hernia.—The abdominal viscera arc occasionally protruded through the diaphragm, either through some of the natural apertures in this muscle, or deficiencies, or wounds, and la- cerations in it. The second kind of case is the most frequent:—Morgagni furnishes an instance of the first. Two cases, related by Dr. Macauley, in Med. Obs. andlnq. vol. i. ; two more detailed in tiie Medical Records, and liesearclics; and two others published by Sir A. Cooper, are instances of the second sort: and another case has been lately recorded by the latter gentleman, affording an example of the third kind. A laceration of the diaphragm by fractured ribs has produced a her-