80-8 accidental Sometimes the portions of tlie lip, which ought to be united, have a considerable interspace between them, while in other instances they are not much apart. The cleft is occasionally double, a. little lobe, or small portion of the lip, being situated between the two fissures ; this is termed a double hare-lip. The fissure mostly affects only the lip itself, and usually the upper one. In many cases, however, it extends along the bones and soft parts forming the palate, even as far as the uvula; and some- times those bones are entirely wanting. In a few instances, the jaw not only is imperfectly ossified in front, so that a cleft presents itself there, but one side of it projects forward, and is at the same time inclined too much outward, drawing with it the corresponding part of the palate, and the sep- tum nasi, so that a very luisightly distortion of the nostril and nose is produced. Such cases are de^ nominated complicated liare-lips. [These deformities are often hereditary. Se- veral children of the same parents have been so born. Mr. C. Forster records a very interesting case in which of nine children of a father who had hare-lip, two had hare-lip, and one defective palate; others had imperforate rectum. After the birth of the ninth child the operation for hare-lip was performed on the father, and there have been two healthy children since. {Surgical Diseases of Cliildren, p. 30.) In common with many other deformities, hare-lip is the result of some arrest or irregularity of fretal development. Simple hare-lip is merely non-union of the median labial fissure. This may be complicated by arrested development of one or more portions of the superior maxillary bone. The incisive portions of the bone, including the two incisor teeth on each side, have separate centres of development. In some animals each constitutes a separate inter-maxillary bone ; and in some cases of hare-lip it remains more or less perfectly detached — any fissure that may exist corresponding to the line of union between the maxillary and inter-maxillary bones, or rather be- tween the incisive and the palatal and facial por- tions of the maxillary bone. There is, very rarely however, a central fissure with two lateral fissures superadded. Central fissure, resulting from non- union of the incisive and palatal portions of the two bones, accompanied by non-union of the soft parts, may be continued backwards through both hard and soft palate, and often so that there is free communication between the nasal and oral cavities. Fissure of the hard palate on one side only of the vomer is rare. In many of these complicated eases the soft palate is deeply fissured. All these clefts or fissures are due to arrest of development prior to the end of the third month ot fcetal existence. Wagner {Verlmidhmgcn dcr Oesellscliaft fur Gchiirtshulfe in Berlin) has seen two cases where union of the labial cleft took place within the uterine cavitj'. Dr. P. Frank, who saw one of these cases, has informed me that It was on the left side of the upper lip. Union had taken place with a distinct red cicatrix, and that ileep indentation of the free margin which it is our object to avoid in operative proceedin"6. iJissure of the lower lip, in the median line, is sometinies seen, and may be complicated by more ^^^ v^y rarer" ^""^ maxillary bone, but it A hare-lip, in its least degree, occasions consi- HARE-LIP. derable deformity ; and when more marked, it frequently hinders infants from sucking, and makes it indispensable to nourish them by other means. When the lower lip alone is affected, which is rare as a malformation, the child can neither retain its saliva, nor learn to speak, except with the greatest impediment. The constant escape of the saliva, besides being an annoyance, is found to be detri- mental to the health; for its loss impairs the di- gestive functions, the patient becomes emaciated, and even death would sometimes ensue, if the in- cessant discharge of so necessary a fluid in the ani- mal economy were not prevented. Thus, a lady, who was in this state, consulted Tronchin, who immediately saw the cause of her indisposition, and recommended the fissure in the lip to be united: the operation was done, and the dyspeptic symp- toms then ceased. And when the fissure pervades the palate, the patient not only articulates very imperfectly, but cannot masticate nor swallow, ex- cept with great difiiculty, on account of the food readily getting up into the nose. [It is believed that DieiFenbach's observation is confirmed by others, to the effect that more in- fants are born with double than with single hare- lip; and that the fact of more single than double hare-lips being operated on is accounted for by the great mortality in the double cases. In addi- tion to the causes of mortality just enumerated, we must also remember that the inspired air is not warmed, as in the natural state of parts, before its entry into the air-passages.] _ An early removal of the deformity must ob- viously be very desirable; but as it cannot be ac- complished without an operation attended with some degree of pain, Dionis, Garengeot, and others advise waiting till the child is four or five years old, on the supposition that, at an earlier age, the child's agitations and cries would render the ope- ration impracticable, or derange all the proceedings taken to insure its success. It is plain, however, that such reasons are not of great weight. A child four or five years old, and very often even one eight or ten years of age, is more diflicult to manage than an infant only a few months old. Every child of the above age has a thousand times more dread of the pain than of the deformity, or of the inconveniences of the complaint to which he is habituated; while an infant of tender years fears nothing, and only feels the pain of the mo- ment. A more rational objection is the liabilitj- of in- fants to convulsions after oper.ations; and this 'las induced many surgeons to postpone the cure of the hare-lip till the child is about two years old. This custom is also sanctioned by Sir Astley Cooper, who mentions in his lectures 'several instances which have either been communicated to him h}' others, or have occurred in his own practice, where operations for tlic cure of hare-lips in very young infants have had a fatal termination, in conse- quence of an attack of convulsions or diarrhres. The period when dentition is completed, or the ago of two years, he therefore sets down as the most advantageous for the operation. Le Dran performed the operation on children of all ages, even on those at the breast. B. Bell operated with success on an infant only three months old. Muys advises it to be undertaken as soon as the child is six months old. Koonhuyson operated on children ten weeks after their birth,