410 CARIES, the spine often advances to the destruction of the bodies of many vertebrfe, without tenderness in the bones or in the soft parts investing them." (Siunlet/, On Diseases of ike JBu?ies, p. 52.) The condition of bones just described, and to which M. Gerdy has given the name of soft caries, is generally described by pathologists as the first period or degree of caries. In this condition the bone is rendered unnaturally soft, and a probe passed in at one of these fistulous openings, sur- rounded by the very peculiar granulations alluded to above, when firmly pressed, penetrates into the osseons structure, breaking down the softened tissue with a crackling sensation perceptible both to the hand and the ear. The second period or der/ree presents the same characteristic lesions in a more advanced form; the softening has advanced, even to loss of substance; the cancelli have become much enlarged, and then contain the blood, or pus, or oily fluid mentioned above; the surface of the bone hus become rugous by the destruction of its super- ficial lamella, and resembles pumice stone. The portions destroyed by ulceration may either be re- moved molecule by molecule, and may sometimes be felt as grit in the discharges, or, as is common in cases of scrofulous caries, the ulcerative process may have so completely surrounded a larger por- tion of osseous tissue as to cut off from it all sup- ply of nutritive material, and thus cause its death ; such instances, although in their origin essentially caries, have, frequently, as the writer believes, been mistaken for cases of necrosis (or, death of bone from a totally different cause), and when such portion of dead bone (sequestrum, as it has falsely been supposed to be) has been removed, delusive hopes of recovery have been entertained by the surgeon and given to the patient. (See Necrosis.) It is in this stage of the disease, that the new osseous secretions, which are so constantly seen to accompany the ulcerative process, take place as the result of the neighbouring periostitis. In some instances the)"- resemble spines and tubercles ; in the case of scrofulous disease of the vertebr£E they often unite together the remains of the bodies of several vertebrae which have been partially de- stroyed, and thus maintain the erect position of the vertebral column. They seem to have their chief seat iu the anterior and posterior ligaments of the spine. M. Gerdj', under the term liard caries, describes very closely what I have already alluded to above as frequently occurring in scro- fulous caries ; viz. the formation of something like a sequestrum. The tendency to new formation, and thus to reparation and cicatrisation, is very marked in syphilitic caries, spots may bo detected iu close pro.ximity, where tlie two actions are going on pari passu ; it is probably owing to this double action that the syphilitic caries is, of all forms of the disease, the most amenable to judicious treatment] " The absorption of bone, like that of soft parts Csays Dr. Thomson), may be distinguished into interstitial, progressive, and ulcerative. We have ample proofs of the interstitial absorption, or that wliicli is daily, hourly, and unceasingly taking place from every pan of the substance of bone, iu the disposition and removal of phosphate of lime, that has been tinged with madder. If too much earth bo removed, tiio quantity of animal matter will bo relatively increased, and a disposition given to softness of the bonea—a state, which exists in the bones of children in the disease called the rickets, and in the bones of older people, in that denominated mollities ossium, or the rickets of grown people.'' " I have already had occasion to mention the effects of the progressive absorption of bone, as manifested in the progress of aneurisms and other tumors of the skin ; but the formation of pus is by no means a necessary, constant, or even fre- quent attendant on the progressive absorption in bone. Hydatids in the brains of sheep, tumors growing from the pia or dura mater in the human body (see Dura Mater), or aneurism seated over the cranium, or within the cavity of the chest, are often the cause of the whole substance of a bone being removed, layer after layer, by progressive absorption, without the formation of a single par- ticle of pus. (See Aneurism.) This state of the bone has often been confounded, but improperh-, with that state of the bone which arises from ul- cerative absorption, the state which is properly denominated caries, and in which one or more solutions of continuity may be produced upon the surface, or in the substance of the bones. The ul- cerations, occasioned in bones by the venereal disease, afford by far the best marked examples of the effects and appearances of ulcerative absorp- tion, or caries in bones," &c. (See Thomson's Lectures on Infiammalion, p. 389.) The prominent feature both of ulceration and caries, is loss of substance through absorption. But, as Mr. Mayo properly observes, " caries is something more than mere absorption. AVhen an aneurism of the aorta presses against the sternum, or the vertebras, the bones are gradually eaten through ; they are partially absorbed; but thej^ are not carious. When, however, the face is at- tacked with lupus, and the tilcer, spreading in depth and breadth, reaches the bones, and they become excavated simultaneously with the soft parts in the enlarging ulcer, the osseous tissue is not only absorbed, but truly carious. In caries, alisorption is preceded b}' a change in the bone, which (with very few and doubtful exceptions) has a well marked inflammator)' character. Tiie same condition exists during the progress of the absorption. There is further present an imperfect restorative action, which is shown in the more or less partial growth of unwholesome granulations from the ulcerated surface. Of these changes, the inflamed condition of the bone is the primarjf and most important; the absorption is secondary and accidental. Absorption may be prevented by subduing the inflammation ; or may, after hav- ing begun, be arrested, and the crop of unwuole- sonio granulations converted into a healtliy resto- rative growth, if the case is of such a nature as to allow of the suppression of the inflammatory or spe- cific action." (See Outlines of Human Pai/iolopi/, p. 36.) Caries has been divided into several kinds, ac- cording to the nature of its causes: 1. Caries from external causes ; 2. From constitutional dis- ease, in wliicli cases, besides local remedies, it is necessary to employ such medicines as are calcu- lated to "obviate the particular aflection of the sys- tem, whence the diseased state of the bone has originated. Mr. Mayo enumerates four kinds of canes: 1. Simple. When, in a person of sound constitu- tion, a state of unwholesome and protrncted in-