3 D 2 proceeding. The interior surface was found to be too niucli diseased to produce good granulations. Blood continued to ooze out of the wound for a few days. Then the inner surface became covered with a blackish substance, which gradually ex- tended itself, and formed a new fungus. A variety of escharotics were applied to destroy the fungous and morbid surface of the wound, but to no pur- pose ; the growth of the fungus always exceeded the quantity destroyed. Undiluted sulphuric acid, applied freely, had very little elfect. An attempt was once more made to cut away the disease ; but on examining the wound care- fully, after the contained substance was removed, the muacuhir substance was found degenerated into a hard mass, which felt somewhat like carti- lage. The adipose membrane was also diseased, and formed into large cells, which had contained the fungous substance. Hence another amputa- tion seemed the only resource. After this operation the whole surface of the Stump seemed sound, except the principal artery, which was filled with a somewhat stiff matter, re- sembling coagulated blood, which prevented its bleeding. The inside of the vessel, on being touched with the scalpel, felt hard, and communi cated a sensation like that of scraping bone. The man was sent home as soon as his state would admit of it; but he died consumptive about six months afterwards. Besides this instance, in the thigh, Mr. Hey relates cases of fungus hairaatodes situated in the female breast, in the leg, in the neck (extending from the jaw to the clavicle, and producing suffocation), on the back part of the neck, on the back part of the shoulder, and at the extremity of the fore-arm, near the wrist. " If I do not mistake (says Mr. Hey), this disease not unfrequenlly affects the globe of the eye, causing an enlargement of it, with the de- struction of its internal organisation. If the eye is not extirpated, the sclerotic bursts at the last, a bloody sanious matter is discharged, and the pa tient sinks under the complaint." (p. 283.) Besides some cases in similar situations to those mentioned by Mr. Hey, one is related by Mr Burns, in which the hip-joint was the seat of this terrible affection. After detailing the progress o" the case to the poor man's death, this author states that he found on dissection the hip-joint com- pletely surrounded with a soft matter, resembling the brain, enclosed in thin cells, and here and there cells full of thin bloody water: the head of tlie thigh-bone was quite carious, as was also the acetabulum. The muscles were very pale, and almost like boiled liver, having completely lost their fibrous appearance and muscular properties. The same sort of morbid mischief was also found within the pelvis, moat of the interior of the bones on the affected side being carious. An attempt had been made, before the patient died, to tap the bladder ; but the trocar had only entered a cell filled with bloody water, and situated in a mass of the soft brain-like substance. I have already stated enough in explanation of the dreadful nature of fungus hfcmatodes. Little can be said of the treatment ; for we know not of one medicine that seems to have the least power of putting a stop to the disease, which, when left to itself, has always proved fatal, with the excep- tion of the rare cures by mortification of the parts, FUNGUS HiEMATODES. 771 as illustrated in one example related by Schmidt, where a medullary tumour of the eye mortified, the sloughs were detached, the eyeball collapsed^ and a small knob, consisting almost entirely of the contracted sclerotica, was the only remnant of this dreadful form of disease. A case of fungus hiema- todes of the left cheek is alleged, by Dr. Schutte, to have terminated favourably by the process of mortification and sloughing. (See Gmfe's Joiini^ Under Mr. Cline, there was a woman whose breast healed up after the diseased mass had been thrown off by sloughing. {Lancet, vol. ii. p. 401.) With a few exceptions of this kind, we have no reason to believe that there is the smallest chance of any spontaneous amendment, much less of a cure. Also, in some of the cases just now cited, it is not known whether any relapse followed. We have seen that, when the chief part of a fungus haematodes is cut away,, and only a small portion of its cyst left behind, the fungus is repro- duced from this part, and soon becomes as formi- dable, nay, more formidable, than it was before, and this notwithstanding the application of the most powerful escharotics. Neither the red pre- cipitate, the bichloride of mercury, the antimonium muriatum, nor the undiluted sulphuric acid, have been able to repress the growth of such fungus. [Hey.) No known remedy has the power of checking or removing the complaint. Friction, with ano- dyne linimentSf sometimes gives relief from pain in the early stages; but it does not retard the progress of the disease. Mercury and iodine have been alleged to do so, but I have never seen an instance of it. In short, the only chance of cure consists in extirpating the whole of the distempered parts, removing not only the soft, brain-like fungous substance, but every particle of the cysts, sacs, or pouches in which it may be contained. The result of such proceedings is also for the most part unsuc- cessful, the disease returning in the same situation, or manifesting itself soon, afterwards in others. Experience proclaims this^ discouraging truth so loudly, that many of the b^st surgeons now decline to undertake any operation in cases of this descrip- tion ; for, if the attempt fails, the patient is put to unnecessary pain, and his life is abridged by the more rapid and deplorable form in which the dis- ease reappears. At all events, an operation is justifiable only in the earlystages, while the disease is entirely local, if it ever be so—a circumstance much to be doubted. After the neighbouring glands have become affected, all chance of recovery is destroyed. Nor should the knife be resorted to for the removal of any external medullary tumor, when there is any sign of the existence of other tumors of the same nature in any of the viscera, glands, or other deep-seated organs. It is some- times dillicult to persuade patients, at an early period, to submit to amputation or extirpation, because the pain and inconvenience are not con- siderable ; but if circumstances then warrant the perlormauce of the operation, it should be urged with all the force which a conviction of its absohito necessity, and the fatal peril of delay, ought to inspire. The attempts to cure a medullaiy tumor on a limb by cutting it away have been attended with such ill success, that many surgeons deem it advisable not to follow tliis method, but to ampu-