^^■^ FRACTURE, the atterapta'made to straighten the bone, a com- plete fracture is sometimes produced. It is very doubtful whether a lending of bones, unaccompa- nied by fracture of some portion of their thickness, ever takes place. Under the head of differences of fractures should also be noticed, the separation which occurs in children and young persons at the line of union of the epiphyses with the shafts of the long bones These epiphysary disjunctions are not unfrequent m the humerus, and in the radius at its lower extremity, but they may occur also in other situ- ations. They do not differ in their mode of pro- duction m their symptoms, or in the treatment reqiured, from ordinary fractures in corresponding situations, and they admit of union with at least equal facility, and without interfering in any way with the subsequent growth and development of the bone. The only point of difference worth men- tioning IS the indistinct character of the crepitus which is elicited, in consequence of the smoothness of the separated surfaces. Further notice will be taken of these cases in speaking of particular frac tures.J 2. The Causes op Fractures Are divided into predisposing and remote. In the first class are comprehended the situ- ations and functions of the bones, the age of the patients, and their diseases. Superficial bones are more easily fractured than those which are covered by a considerable quantity of soft parts. The functions of some bones render them more liable to be fractured than others; thus the ra- dius, which supports the hand, is more liable to be fractured than the ulna. The clavicle, which serves to keep the shoulder in its proper position, and to support on its arched extremity all the mo- tions of the upper limb, is particularly subject to be broken. The gradual increase of the quantity of the phosphate of lime, in the structure of the bones, makes them brittle, in proportion as we ad- vance in years; and, in old age, the proportion of the morganised to the organised part is so great that the bones are fractured by the slightest causes. In childhood, the animal and organised part bears a greater proportion to the earth, and the bones being, consequently, more elastic and flexible, are not so easily broken as in old age. Lues venerea, cancer, rickets, scurvy, and scro fula predispose to fractures. B. Bell mentions two venereal patients, of whom the hardest and largest bones were completely broken by the ordi nary action of the muscles of the limb. Sir Ben- jamin Brodie had a patient, whose clavicle broke exactly in the situation of a venereal node. (See Med. Gaz.) In the museum of University Col- lege, London, are two thigh-bones, taken from a patient who was using mercury for the euro of syphilis: one has several nodes upon it; the other broke as he was turning himself in bed. Fabricius Hildanus quotes from Sarazin, a physician of Lyons, the case of a gouty patient, sixty years of age, who, )n putting on his glove, broke his arm aliove the elbow. Desault used often to speak of a mm of aalpetnere, whose arm was broken as a person was ^anding her out of a carriage. Louis, who was je\ed that no union took place, was not a little ^""^ t''ig>'-lJO"e experience the in b!j "Vr' ^''l P°^""'-' m Ded. It was then learned that she iiad n cancer in her right breast. Leveillg observed similar cases in the Hotel-Dieu ; Sir Astley Cooper has met with others; and at this present time (March 1037) there ,s ,n University College Hospital a woman with cancer of the breast, whosehumerus was broken about a fortnight ago by the ordinary action of the muscles. A few months ago she was in the same institution for a similar occurrence, and she had previously sustained the same kind of injury of other bones. A few years ago I attended a gen- t eman s coachman, who had a cancerous disease of the bladder, and whose thigh-bone broke at its upper third as he was turning himself in bed Around the fractured part a scirrhous mass had been deposited between the periosteum and the bone; and one of the ribs was found in a similar condition, and also broken. The preparations are placed m the museum of University College. CSee Med. Chh: Trans. Mo\. xVu.) " ^ [In some of these cases, which have been now frequently noticed, the bones are found infiltrated with cancerous matter, which is first deposited so as to take the place of the natural medullary tissue, and afterwards causes a gradual absorption of the walls of the bone itself. Mr. Paget remarks that bones thus cancerous become liable to be broken with very slight forces; and to these conditions a certain number of the so-called spontaneous frac- tures in cancerous patients may be assiimed. But he also thinks that others are independent of the specific deposition, and are due to the wasting and degenerative atrophy which the bones undergo, during the progress of cancer, even more than^in other emaciating and cachectic diseases. (See Lectures on Surg. Pailiologxj, vol. ii. p. 316.)] According to Leveille', the history of two girls is related by Buchner, one of whom died rickety at the age of sixteen, having broken the femur a short time before her death; and the other, after taking the breast very well for two years, and thriving for a time, became affected with rachitis, and met with the same accident as she was merely running along the street. {Nouvelle Doctrine Chir. t. ii. n 163.) ^' Many extraordinary instances of fractures from the morbid softness and fragility of the bones are upon record. Suffice it here to refer to the Phi- losophical Transactions ; Me'in. de I'Acad. Royale des Sciences ; Act. Haf'niens. ; Ephein. Nat. Cur. dec. I. ann. 3. obs. 112; Gooch's Chirurgical Works, vol. ii. ; Saviard, Obs. Chir. p. 274; Gib- son's Institutes of Surgery, vol. i. p. 370, &c. (See Fragilitas and Mollities Ossium.) On the subject of fractures produced by scurvy, Maicellus Donatus ; Saviard ; Ileyne de Morbis Ossium ; Poupart's Works inserted in the M^in. de I'Acad. des Sciences, 1699 ; and the Treatise published at Verona, in 1761, by Jean de Bonn, may be consulted. To these works I would add Lord Anson's Voyage, in which the efl'ect of the scurvy in producing the absorption of the callus of old fractures, a disjunction of the fragments, and a renewal of ulcers which had been many years healed, is curiously exemplified. Par^, Platner, Caliisen,and several other writers, set down cold as a predisposing cause of fractures. This doctrine has originated from these injuries being more frequent in the winter time, but is erroneous, since, in cold countries, the greater num- ber of falls which happen in winter from the slip- pery and very hard state of the roads, is a