407 CARBUNCLE. a boil. The mortified cellulai' tissue is deeper and more extensive in antlirax tlian a boil, in which it forms only a central miclei.is, or core. The sur- face of the tumor is flatter than that of a boil, which ahvaj-s rises in a conical shape above the level of the skin, while its base does not penetrate so deeply as that of a carbuncle, which is a great deal broader than the more superficial part of the tumor. Boils chiefly occur in children, and young plethoric persons; the anthrax is mostly seen in subjects beyond the middle period of life, whose constitutions have been seriously impaired by in- temperance, or other causes. The occurrence of anthrax on the limbs is un- common. Mr. Hunter, however, had seen the disease so situated : I have met with examples of it on the occiput, side of the neck, in various parts of the back, and on the nates. Anthrax, or common carbuncle, is essentially different from the malignant pustule, so frequent in some of the southern parts of Europe (see Larrey, Mem. de Chir. JMilitairc, t. i. p. 104, &c.), in not being contagious. It differs also from pes- tilential and malignant carbuncle (the charhon of French pathologists), in the same important respect. (See Dupvi/iren, Clin. Cliir. t, iv. p. 111.) The Latter author also regards the malignant pustule and pestilential carbuncle as essentially gangrenous dis- eases, whereas simple anthra,x seems to him to be so merely from strangulation of the processes of cellular tissue extending into the structure of the true skin. The correctness of this statement seems to be rather doubtful ; because there can be no carbuncular disease, whether benign or malignant, •without a gangrenous disorganisation of the cellular tissue, and the influence of constitutional causes. This is certain ; but, whether constriction of the in- flamed tissues, as alleged by Dupuytren, be the principal cause of gangrene, is a point which is far less clear. We find, indeed, that it is the character of carbuncular inflammations, first to produce sloughing of the cellular tissue, even where this may not be covered by anj' dense unyielding parts, though occasionally it afterwards destroys all textures down to the vertebras, or scapulaj, them- selves. The gangrene, I should say, is independent of the constriction and confinement of the textures affected. The first symptoms are great heat and violent pain in some part of the body, on which arise one or several vesications, attended with great itching and a burning heat; below which a cir- cumscribed, but very deep-seated and extremely hard tumor may be felt. The progress of carbuncles to the gangrenous Btate is generally quick. Their size is various : they have been known to be as large as a plate. Consider.able local pain and induration always at- tend the disease. The skin, indeed, has a peculiar feel, like that of brawn. As the complaint ad- vances, several little vesicles arise, and under these, apertures generally form in tlic tumor, through which a greenish, bloody, irritating matter is discharged. The internal sloughing is olten ex- tensive, even when no sign of mortification can be outwardly discovered. The degree of peril may generally be estimated by the magnitude and situation of the tumor, the nge of the patient, and the state of his constitution. Ciirbuncles on the head are often fatal, Anthrax, or common carbuncle, sometimes ap- pears in persons affected with typhoid symptoms, in which case it is attended with great weight and stiffness of the adjacent parts ; the patient is rest- less and pale, the tongue white, or of a deep red, and moist ; the pulse low, urine sometimes pale, sometimes very turbid, with all the other symp- toms, in an exaagerated degree, which attend tvphoid fevers. The patient often complains much of his head, either from pain or giddiness. Some- times he is drowsy ; at other times, he cannot get the least sleep. Occasionallj'-, he is delirious. The case is also apt to be attended with chilliness or rigors, and profuse perspirations. The patient is sometimes costive, sometimes afflicted with a pro- fusion of stools ; he generally complains of loss of appetite, nausea, and vomiting ; takes but little nourishment ; complains of difficulty of breathing, and is extremely low, with palpitations of the heart, and sometimes faintinga. (See Brmnfield^a Obs. vol. i. p. 122.) With regard to the local treatment, the principal thing is to make an early and free incision into the tumor, so as to allow the sloughs and matter to escape. If the carbuncle be large, a crucial incision is mostly preferred, because the compact mass of disorganised cellular tissue will be long in getting completely out, unless the opening be made very free. The extremities of each cut should go two or three lines beyond the boundaries of the disease. (See Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 11-2.) As much of the contents as possible should at once be pressed out, and the part covered with a poultice. Until the tumor is opened, no applica- tions are more proper than an emollient poultice ; but after an incision has been made, the poultice should be made rather stimulating; like that composed of oatmeal and port wine, the common fermenting poultice, or a linseed one, with which a proportion of Peruvian balsam is blejided. Fomentations also afford considerable relief, both before and after an opening has been made. Poultices are to be continued, till all the sloughs have separated, and the cavity becomes clean, after which the ulcer may be dressed with red precipitate ointment. Friar's balsam, Peruvian balsam, or a solution of nitrate of silver, 10 grains to the ounce of water. Dupuytren, after opening the tumor sometimes continued the poultice, and, in other instances, employed gently stimulating dressings. When the carbuncle is situated on the posterior part of the trunk, the patient should not lie on his back ; for then the skin would slough, notwithstanding the incision. {^c& Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 113.) The manner in which the disease is protracted, by not making a proper opening in duo time, can- not be too strongly impressed upon the mind of every practitioner, and it may justly be regarded as a frequent reason of the fatal terminations of numerous cases. Mr. Bromficld long .ago forcibly inculcated the necessity of making a timely opening for the discharge cf tho sloughs; for, says he, " in case you rely on the opening made by nature, the thin matter only will bo discharged, the sloughy membranes will remain, and the orifice close up." (See vol, i. p. 128.) It was formerly not an uncommon custom to remove the most prominent portions of carbuncles with the knife, or to destroy them with the actual and potential cauteries. Many foreign surgeons are partial to tlic hot iron, tho employment of which was sanctioned by Pouteau. (See his D D 4