excessively dilated, and its circle remnins rcgulav, while the bottom of the eye is of a deep black colour ; cases unaccompanied with any acute con- tinual pain in the head and eyebrow, or any sense of constriction in the globe of the eye itself; cases which originate from violent anger, deep sorrow, fright, gastric disorder, general plethora, or the same partial affection of the head, suppres- sion of the menses, habitnal bleedings from the iiose, piles, &c., great loss of blood, nervous debi- lit}', not too inveterate, and in young subjects, are generally curable. Amaurosis is also mostly Remediable, when produced by convulsions or the efforts of difficult parturition; when it arises during the course, or towards the termination of acute or intermittent fevers; and when it is pe- riodical., (Scarpa, Osservazioni sulle Malattie degli cap, 20. Venez. 1802.) If amaurosis take place from the free administration of merciir}', from protracted suckling, from profuse diarrhoea, or from a state of general debility, induced by other causes, the prognosis must depend upon our capacity to remove tlie debilitated state of the constitution, or its causes. In some cases, this is easy; in others, impossible. (See R. Middlemore, op. cit. vol. ii. p. 273.) ^ According to Mr. Travers, it is rather the de- gree than the nature and origin of the symptom- atic functional amaurosis that should in most •cases influence our prognosis; yet the latter cir- cumstances, it is equally clear, afford more or less encouragement, in proportion as the pre-existing states of disease ordinarily admit of relief, or not° Thus, says he, the amaurosis from gastric diseases, from plethora, from irritation, are all of them re- hevnble, and, if treated at an early period, reme- diable. Whereas paralysis, the sequel of fever, or of epilepsy, or severe constitutional diseases, whether acute or chronic, or depending upon ha- bitual cerebral congestions combined with organic visceral disease, or induced bv the operation of noxious agents on the system,"is a hopeless form of the malady. {Synopsis, p. 29e.) I may re- mark, however, that various examples of recovery from amaurosis induced by fevers have fallen under my own notice. In general, when the treatment proves success- ful, the return of vision is accompanied with a re- . gression of the same characteristic effects which were disclosed in the gradual advance of the dis- order, viz. appearances as if there were before the eyes flashes of liglit, a cobweb, network, mist, or flaky substances. {Bee,; Lelire von den Auqenkr. b. 11. p. 4CO. Wien. If;i7.) Upon the comm^hcement of the cure, there is ■ nlso a return of the obliquity of sight; one of the most constant symptoms of imperfect amaurosis. This is a circumstance which Hey took particular notice of: he says, that it was most remarkable in these persons who had totally lost the sight in either eye ; for in them the most obli(|uo rays of liglit seemed to make the first perceptible impres- sion upon the retina ; and, in proportion as that nervous coat regained its sensiliility, the sight be- came more direct and natural. (See Med. Ohs. md Inq. vol. V.) Treatment op Amaurosls. When amaurosis is to be fundamentally cured not upon empirical, but scientific principles, all the' causes of the disorder must be ascertained, and, if AMAUROSIS. -11 possible, removed, as in the' treatment of every other complaint. How often, however, it is im- possible to accomplish either the one or the other of these objects, must be clear enough from the preceding observations. Amaurosis is sometimes merely a s^iptom of another disease, and then attention must be directed to the primary malady, as illustrated in apoplexy, hydrocephalus, depressed fractures of the skull, and disorder of the intestinal or uterine functions. If no particular circumstance can be assigned as the cause of amaurosis, the surgeon should act with great caution, and constantly bear in his mind, first, the constitution, sex, and age of the patient; secondly, his ordinary employments, and general mode of living; and thirdly, the principal morbid appearances under which the disease ori- ginated and was developed. {Beer, Leh-e von den Augenh: b. ii. p. 462.) In that species of amaurosis which arises from causes inducing the disease, by me.ms of a preter- natural fulness and dilatation of the blood-vessels of the brain, or eye, the indication is to lessen the quantity of blood and general plethora, and deter- mination of blood to the head and organ affected. For this purpose the patient may be bled in the arm or temporal arteiy. The evacuation is to be repeated as often as seems necessary, and it will be better to begin with taking away from sixteen to twenty ounces. The efficacy of bleeding, in the cure of particular cases, is strikingly exemplified by numerous well-authenticated observations. Richter informs us of a woman who, on leaving off having ciiildren, lost her sight; but rec(vered it again by being only once bled in the foot. A spontaneous hemorrhage from the nose also cured a young woman who had been blind for several weeks. {Anfangsgr. der Wundarxn. b. iii. p. 442.) That bleeding is sometimes hurtfully and wrong- fully practised in amaurotic cases, is a fact which admits of no doubt. Mr. Travers particularly refers to one description of cases where the lancet does harm: these are cases of undue determination of blood to the organ, which are especially common after deep-seated chronic inflammation or distress from over-excitement, by which its vessels have ' lost their tone; an effect decidedly increased by depletion. In one interesting case of this kind a gradual, but perfect, recovery followed a regulated diet, and a course of the blue pill, with saline aperients. {Synopsis, p. 159.) AH cases of direct debility and proper paralysis of the retina (says Mr. Travers) are aggravated by loss of blood, and liie great prevailing mistake in the treatment of amaurosis is the indiscriminate detraction of blood {Synopsis, p. 303.) When, in addition to general bleeding, topical IS also necessary, leeches may be applied to the t<!mples, or cupping glasses to the back of the neck, or temples. Besides bleeding, purgatives blisters, bathing the feet in warm wa er^ low di l repose of the organs, &c. are proper. In some cases the foregoing means fail in pro- ducing the desired benefit, even when followed up, as far as the pulse and strength will allow. IJei-o the continuance of the disease may depend, either ipnn the stoppage of some wonted evacuation of "10(1(1, or else up(m some other cause of the first class. In the first of these cases (savs Richter) experience proves that the disease will sometimes not give way before the accustomed discharge is