HERNIA. hernise which have become strangulated are here ofhttle use, save as they act generally in reducing inttammation, because there is no muscular con- traction to subdue; whilst, on the other hand, cold steadily applied may be of great service, when combined with such mechanical pressure as may be found advisable. In these cases, stimulating injec- tions are also of great use; and, if they be applied, as Mr. O'Beime of Dublin advises, by means of a tube ten inches long, with a hole at the end of it, and introduced into the sigmoid flexure of the colon, the happiest results will follow, &c. It draws off the flatus, as well as the watery contents of the bowels, whilst the application of ice, acting on the tumor, condenses the air in the incarcerated intestine, and tends to cause it to pass more readily into the abdomen," (Op. cit. p. 27.) Purgative Medicines. — Mr. Hey's experience leads him to condemn almost universally the use of purgatives while an intestine remains firmly strang.ilated. In the entero-epiplocle, when the intestine has retired, and the omentum remains strangulated, or in a simple strangulation of the omentum, where the intestine has not been pro- lapsed, he deems purgatives of great utility. So likewise in very large and old hernia;, where there is reason to doubt whether the disease is not to be considered as a morbid affection of the intestinal canal rather than the effect of strangu- lation, purgatives, he believes, may be as useful as in the simple ileus without hernia. While the intestine remains firmly strangulated, they usuallv increase the vomiting, and add to the distress of the patient. If they are to be tried at any time with hope of success, the trial would appear to have the greatest advantage when the vomiting has been removed by means of an opiate; yet Mr. Hey had repeatedly given them in vain during such an interval of relief. {Practical Obs. in Surgery, p. 128.) Purgatives are supposed to operate by exciting the peristaltic action uf the intestine, and thereby extricating it from the stricture. Not only Hey, but Pott and Richter, have joined in their general condemnation. Sir Astley Cooper also disapproves of cathartics, except when the symptoms are very slight, and there is either no vomiting, or only at distant intervals. {On Abdominal Hernia, part i. p. 34, ed. 2.) Under these circumstances, he has known opium, joined with calomel and cathartic extract, produce stools, and relieve the patient. Purgative clysters certainly have not the objec- tion of increasing the irritation, but their efficacy IS not deserving of much confidence. Mr. Hey never saw one case in which either purgative or emollient clysters produced a return of a strangu- lated hernia. Such injections will empty the large intestines, but they do no more. It is com- mon also for a natural evacuation to be the imme- diate consequence of strangulation (p. 131). Mr. Guthrie's opinions, with regard to cases likely to be served by stimulating clysters, have already been noticed. Warm Bath.—" Many instances (says Hey) are upon record of the good effect of warm bathing in procuring the reduction of a strangulated hernia. I have often seen it useful, but I have often seen It tail. Whenever it is used in this disease, the patient should be placed, if possible, in a horizontal position. Gentle efforts with the hand to reduce ttie prolapsed part are perhaps attended with less danger, and with greater prospect of success, while the patient lies in the bath, than in any other po- SItion. The free use of opiates coincides with that ot warm bathing, and, under some circumstances, (p!T32)^^°* '° ^"^"^ '""j^ction" CoU Bath and Cold Jpplieaiions.—Tbe cold bath, and dashing of cold water on the patient, are little to be depended on, though success has some- times been obtained in this manner. (Pelii, Mai a«- t. 11. p. 325; Hey, p. 136.) Wilmer strongly recommended the application ot cold to the tumor itself; and this plan has acquired the approbation of the most celebrated modern surgeons. It is sometimes tried in con- junction with the effect of tobacco clysters. Cold applications, in the form of ice, were indeed parti- cularly recommended by B. Bell. The best way is to pound the ice, tie it up in a bladder, and place It on the rupture. Its effect is to lessen the pain, to diminish the bulk caused by flatus, to make the skin over the tumor contract, and thus pro- mote the return of the parts. When ice cannot be procured. Sir Astley Cooper employs a mix- ture of equal parts of nitre and muriate of ammonia. To one pint of water, in a bladder, ten oimces of the mixed salts are to be added. " If, after four hours (says this distinguished surgeon), the symp- toms become mitigated, and the tumor lessens, this remedy may be persevered in for some time longer; but if they continue with unabated violence, and the tumor resist every attempt at reduction, no turther trial should be made of the application." (On Inguinal and Congenilal Hernia.) When ice IS not at hand, ether sometimes proves a good substitute, when allowed to evaporate from the surface of the swelling. Care must be taken that the cold be not so ap- phed as to freeze the scrotum and bring on slough- ing. {Sir A. Cooper, p. 15.) In large old hernife, the application of ice is often attended with re- markable eflicacy; and in other cases, as Sir Astley Cooper has explained, if it does not completely succeed, it arrests the progress of the symptoms. {On Abd. Harnia, part i. p. 34, ed. 2.) Opiates.—Mr. Hey met with several cases in which opiates, given freely (in athletic persons after bleeding), procured a reduction of strangu- lated hernia. He could not say, however, that this remedy was generally successful; but it ap- peared to him to have the advanUige of removing, for a time, the pain and vomiting usually attendant on strangulation, even though it proved ultimately inefficacious. Opiates should be given in large doses, when it is wished to try their effect in pro- curing reduction; and whenever the s3'mptoms of strangulation return, after having been removed by opiates, the operation should be performed without delay (p. 134, 135). Sir Astley Cooper states that opium allays the vomiting, and, after venesection, promotes the re- duction. {On Abdominal Hernia, part i. p. 34.) Tobacco Clysters.—For this purpose some sur- geons prefer a decoction of tobacco, made by infus- ing, or boiling, one drachm of the plant, for ten minutes, in a pint of water. Next to the opera- tion, tobacco clysters are the most certain means of bringing about the reduction of the strangulated parts. Besides exciting the action of the intestines, they exert a peculiarly depressing influence on the whole system, reducing the pulse, and causing