557 DISLOCATION. this instance the nerve was between the head of the femur and the pelvic bone. It was found in this latter situation in another case observed by Mr. Wormald, who has described the dissection of the parts, In this instance the head of the bone occupied a rather lower level than has been as- signed to this form of dislocation, for its lower edge rested against the upper border of the ischial tuber- osity. Mr. Wormald describes the limb as being considerably shortened and inverted, and forming about half a right angle with the trunk of the body. The shaft of the femur crossed the sym- physis pubis, and was fixed immovably in tliis situation. (See Land, Med. Gaz. vol. xix. 1837, p. 657.) In like manner, in a case seen by Mr. Adams, of Dublin, the dislocated limb was bent to a right angle with the trunk, and could be further flexed until it came in contact with the abdomen, while extension beyond the right angle was impos- sible. {SeeDubUii Hosp. Gaz. 1845, vol. i. p. 146.] This dislocation may be reduced in the same way as the dislocation backwards and upwards, but the extension should be made with the thigh bent to a right angle with the trunk. IMr. Quain thinks it is also advantageous that the extension I should be made with the thigh in a state of abduc- tion, so that the head of the femur shall be drawn in a degree away from the side of tlie pelvis. To effect this, the pulleys connected with the limb should be fixed at a point higher than the patient's body, which rests upon its sound side, while the counter-extending force is fixed at a lower level (loc. cit. p. 350). Before proceeding to make forcible extension, however, the method by manipulation as de- cribed for the dislocation backwards and upwards, should be tried; but as in this case the head of the boneia situated opposite to, and not higher than the acetabulum, it wouldnotbedesirabletoflex the thigh so far on to the abdomen. The limb should be bent to a right angle only, and then abducted and gently rotated outwards.] 3. Dislocation downwards, on io ilte tuberosity of the iscldiim—[Sub-coti/loid, Malyaignc.']—A dis- location on the tuber ischii is exceedingly uncom- mon. The particulars of such a case were pub- lished a few years ago by Mr. Keate. A gentle- man's horse fell with him into a ditch, and he lay under the animal for some time. It seems that during his efforts to release himself, the head of the femur, which had been first thrown upon the obturator foramen, was forced upon the tuberosity of the ischium, where it could be plainly felt. The limb was unusually elongated, at least from three to three inches and a lialf. The thigh was much flexed upon the pelvis ; tlio leg as much bent on the thigh. The whole limb was carried outwards more tlian Mr. Keate had ever observed in a case of luxation. The knee and tlie foot were mucli everted, the trochanter extremely sunk, the soft parts being elevated in a circle around it. Tlie head of the bone was felt lying close to and on a level with the tuberosity of the ischium, where it was capable of being freely moved under the fingers. In liie reduction the head of tiie bone was brought first on the obturator foramen, and thence into the acetabulum, without any particular difficulty. The patient was aware after the first step of the reduction into the foramen ovale, tliat the bone was not properly replaced, and stated that the luxation had taken place by the same route, first into the foramen ovale, and afterwards, during his struggles, into the situation in which it was found by Mr. Keate. (See Land. Med. Gaz. vol. X. 1832, p. 19.) [In the above case, the dislocation on to the tuberosity was consecutive to dislocation into the thyroid foramen. M. Malgaigne mentions two instances, in which it succeeded to the dislocation backwards on to the ischium, and took place during the attempts at reduction. In one of these, which occurred in his own practice, the limb was slightly elongated, the thigh was abducted and rotated out- wards, the great trochanter was remarkably de- pressed, but the head of the bone could not be felt. Rotation outwards reproduced the original disloca- tion. The other case, observed by M. Lenoir, pre- sented nearly the same symptoms, excepting that there was no rotation either outwards or inwards. In this instance, it was during the attempts at re- duction by manipulation, according to the method of M. Desprez, that the head was carried down- wards on to the tuberosity. {Malgaigne, Traiie. des Fract. <^-c. t. ii. pp. 839, 872.) Two cases have been recorded by Mr. Gurnej^, of Camborne, Cornwall, which appear to afford examples of this kind of dislocation occurring pri- maril3\ Both were attended with elongation and slight eversion of the limb; but in one the head of the bone was probably dislocated downwards and a little forwards, in the other downwards and a little backwards. It is remarkable that both these patients were able to walk some distance before the dislocation was reduced. (See Lancet, vol. i. 1845, p. 412.) In a case observed by M. Bouisson the head of the bone was displaced downwards and backwards, on a level with the tuberosity of the ischium. The prominence of the trochanter was effaced, the limb was lengthened two inches, flexed and slightly abducted, with a tendency to rotation outwards. Reduction was accomplished by traction upon the tliigh in the flexed position, direct extension down- wards having failed. (See Bouisson, Gaz. Med. 1853, p. 664 ; and Malgaigne, Traite. des Fract. <5-c. t. ii. p. 874.) In another case, under the care of M. Roux, the dislocation was downwards and a little inwards, on the anterior surface of the ischium. The accident appears to have been caused by forcil)le abduction of the thigh, for the patient had fallen with his right leg in a hole about a yard deep, the left leg •resting on the surface, and bent outwards. The left limb was elongated nearly two inches and a half, slightly flexed, and abducted. The trochanter was nearly two inches and a half below the level of that on the opposite side, deeply sunk in the soft parts, and diflicult to be felt. By flexing the thigh on tlie pelvis, the head was obscurely felt upon and a little internal to the ischium. Tlie reduction was accomplished by forcibly flexing the thigh on the pelvis, addncting it, and rotating it outwards. Powerful direct extension liad been previously in- efl*ectual. (See J. Koii.v, Rev. Med. Chir. t. v. p. 364; and Malgaigne, loc. cit. p. 874.) A case described by Mr. Wormald as dislocation on to the tuberosity, has already been referred to in speak- ing of the dislocation backwards, to which both on account of the position of the licad of tlie bone, which Was above the tuberosity, and tlie inversion of the lirah, it appears more properly to belong.