505 DISLOCATION. ^any dirt, clots of blood, or other extraneous matter, .md its lips are to be accurately brought together with strips of adhesive plaster. The joint is to be covered with linen, kept constantly wet with the liquor plumbi acetatis dilutus, or, with what is better, spirit of wine and water; the bandage is to be loosely laid down, and the splints fastened on the limb with their proper straps, or pieces of tape, and the limb is to be kept perfectly at rest in an eligible posture. The patient, if strong and young, is to be bled. An anodyne, the first night or two, will be highly proper. Saline draughts and a low regimen are also indicated during the first few days of the symptomatic fever, which commonly follows. According to Sir A. Cooper, purgatives should be used with the utmost caution ; " for (says he) there cannot be a worse practice, when a limb has been placed in a good position, and adhesion is proceeding, than to disturb the processes of nature by the frequent changes of position which purges produce; and I am quite sure, that, in cases of compound fracture, I have seen patients destroyed by their frequent administration." If the case take a favourable course, the con- stitutional fever will not be excessive, nor will the pain and inflammation of the limb be immo- derate. Sometimes the wound will unite, more or less, without suppuration ; a circumstance par- ticularly desirable, as tending more than anything else to lessen the danger, by changing the case, as it were, from a compound into a simple one. In other cases, the wound is not united, but the inflammation and suppuration are not violent or extensive, the constitution is not dangerously dis- turbed, and hopes of ultimate success may be reasonably entertained. When the wound is dis- posed to heal favourably, adhesive plaster, with or without lint, or a pledget of soft soap cerate, is the best dressing. In other instances, while the suppuration is copious, and the parts are tense and painful, emollient poultices are the most eligible. When the symptomatic fever and first inflam- matory syniptoms are over, and much discharge prevails, attended with marks of approaching weakness, the patient is to be allowed more food, and directed to take bark, cordials, porter, wine, &c. If his nights are restless, he must have opi- ates ; if he sweats profusely, sulphuric acid; and, in short, all such medicines as his particular com- plaints may require, are to be prescribed. When the inflammation of a compound dis- location is violent or extensive, general bleeding, the application of leeches, and tiie use of foment- ations and poultices, are tlie most likely means of lessening the mischief. Yet, it is only in strong habits that venesection to any extent can be pru- dently practised in large cities, or crowded hospitals. In certain examples, the most skilful treatment is unavailing. The joint and limb become af- fected with considerable pain and swelling ; the fever runs high ; delirium comes on ; and the pa- tient may even perish from the violence of the first symptoms, the limb being generally at the same time attacked by gangrene. If these first dangers are avoided, the wound may yet not heal favour- ably ; the inflammation may be considerable, or of an erysipelatous nature ; large abscesses under the fascia may be formed ; the bones may be atTected with necrosis ; and the hectic symptoms and sinking state of the patient may make the only chance of recovery depend upon amputation, Bu6 even this operation is sometimes deferred till too late, and the patient must be left to his fate. Whoever gives the smallest reflection to the nature of compound luxations, will perceive, that it is often a matter of the highest importance to make a right decision at the very beginning, whether amputation should be immediately done, or an attempt made to save the limb. In some instances, the patient's sole chance depends upon the operation being performed at once, without the least delay, and the opportunity of doing it never returns. The surgeon should take off the limb as soon as he has seen the nature of the injurj', and not wait till a general tendency to swelling and gangrene has spread through the member, and every action in the system is dis- turbed. Amputation, under the latter circumstances, is sometimes unadvisable, the system not being in a condition to bear it, and every surgeon knows, that when the operation is performed for a spreading gangrene, it is always performed with a very dimi- nished chance of success. Indeed, until certain facts were adduced by Baron Larrey, Mr. Law- rence, Mr. A. C. Hutchison, and others, it was not long ago altogether prohibited. (See Amputation and Mortification.) But, besides this first critical period, the sur- geon often has to exercise a nice degree of judg- ment in a future stage of the case ; I mean when the suppuration is copious, the wound open, the bones aftected witli necrosis, and the health impaired. Here the practitioner may sometimes err, in taking off a Jimb that might be saved; or, he may commit a worse fault, and make the patient lose his life in a fruitless attempt to save the member. No general precepts can guide the practitioner aright in this delicate part of surgery; genius alone can- not do it; the opportunity of making observations, and the talent of profiting by them, are here the things which make the consummate surgeon. It should ever be recollected, in regard to bad compound dislocations, that in young subjects and in a salubrious air, many cases will do well,' which, in old persons, and in the polluted atmo- sphere of London, and crowded hospitals, would be fatal without amputation. The constitutions of some individuals are so ir- ritable, that whether an attempt be made to save the limb, or amputation be at once performed, the case has a rapid and fatal termination. According to Sir A. Cooper, persons who are nnich loaded with fat, " are generally irritable, and bear im- portant accidents very ill; indeed," says he, "they generally din, whichever plan of treatment be pursued." However, he adds, that such corpulent people as take a great deal of exercise, fin-m exceptions to the foregoing remark. (Smyical Essai/s, part ii. p. 195.) There is a practice in regard to compound dig- locations, which I think ought at all events to be adopted only in a few cases: I mean the plan of sawing ofl' the iiead of the luxated bone. Ac- cording to Leveill^, this method is reconnnended by Hippocrates, as a means of m cclerating and perfecting the cure. (^Nouvella Dodriiia Chirur- f/icak, t. ii. p. 4'1.) However, it seems not to have done sufficient good in ancient times to have ob- tained a lasting reputation. In fact, when it was mentioned by the late Mr. Oooch, it had sunk into such oblivion, that it was received as an entirely