HEENIA. 967 3 Q 4 ing diseased omentum witli the knife, or ligature, does not appear to Mr. Key to be always a good ground for laying open the sac. Gangrene of the protruded intestine seems to him to be a case absolutely requiring that the sac should be opened. So also is the case of strangulation by the neck of the sac itself, though he deems such an occurence rare. The following is Mr. Key's description of his method in oblique inguinal hernia : " The incision should begin at the neck of the tumor, or where it seems to quit the abdomen, and should be continued downwards for about an inch and a half. This will lay bare the lower portion of the external oblique tendon, where it forms the ring, A small opening should then be made in the tendon, just above the ring, sufficient to admit the end of the director, which will enable the operator to ascertain if the stricture be at the upper or lower opening. The size of the hernia, and the length of time it has existed, will in some measure serve to guide him; but he may immediately decide the point by passing the director downward under the edge of the external ring, and feeling whether it embraces the tumor firmly, or not, or by making pressure on the swelling below, he may feel if the fluid contents of the tumor can be forced upward above the I'ing, so as to distend the sac in the inguinal canal. This point being decided, if the stricture be at the lower ring, he has only to pass his director under its margin, and to divide it to a sufficient extent. " If the stricture exists higher up, at the neck of the sac, where it will be found in the majority of hernia of this description, the opening in the tendon should be enlarged to the extent shown in the second drawing, for the purpose of passing the director under the deeper stricture. The lower margin of the two muscles will be brought into view, with some of the descending fibres of the cremaster. These may be separated by disturbing the cellular membrane with the end of the director; and the instrument may then be introduced under the transversalis muscle till it readies the stricture. The director, thus introduced, passes before the fascia transversalis, and all risk of wounding the peritoneum, or epigastric artery, is then obviated; but, when that fiscia is very thin, it will perhaps often allow the director to pass beneath it. " The instrument should be depressed upon the sac, in order to carry its point under the border of the transversalis, which may be divided to the extent required. This operation is more difficult than the division of the stricture in femoral hernia. The principal difficulty lies in the accurate sepa- ration of the lower edge of the internal oblique muscle, for the easy passage of the director. Tiie stricture, however, is not so firm in inguinal as in femoral hernia, and the introduction of the director under the transversalis tendon will not be difficult, when it is fairly passed up to the neck of the sac, before the attempt is made. The steps of the operation will be much the same in those smaller herniae, which arc lodged in the inguinal canal." (C. Aston Key, op. cit.) Respecting this mode of operating, I may observe, that there can be no doubt of its being calculated to lessen the risk of the patient being destroyed by peritonitis ; but I apprehend that the greater difficulty of accomplishing it, than the conmion operation, and the fact of some excellent anatomists having been baffled in their attempts to perform it on the living subject ; will continue to prevent its general adoption. I have known the attempt made in one or two instances, and given tip. However, if a surgeon were confident that he could execute the plan, (and Mr. Key's directions would greatly assist him,) I would not object to his doing so, if there were no circumstances in the case likely to render the opening of the sac neces- sary. [Mr, Luke also strongly advocates Petit's method of operating for strangulated hernia, and gives some valuable statistics of the results of this practice in his hands, {Medical Gazette, vol. i. 1839—40 ; and Medico-Chirurgical Transaciiuns, vol. xxxi. 1848.) At page 103, in the last named work, he says:—"Since 1841, with four exceptions, I have invariably attempted to perform the operation for hernia without opening the sac, a circumstance worthy of notice in this place, because, to a certain extent, we may conclude from it what will be the general results, both as regards the successful per- formance and mortality of the operation, provided it be adopted by the profession generally, as it has been by myself, as an ordinary rule of practice. " Inclusive of cases occurring between 1831 and 1841 (which were selected), I have attempted the performance of Petit's operation in eighty-four cases. Of this number, the operation was com- pletely successful, without opening the sac, in fifty- nine. In twenty-five it was necessary to open the sac to effect a reduction of the hernial contents, the ope- ning generally varying in extent from one-half to one-quarter of an inch. With respect to the mor- tality amongst these patients,—of the fifty-nine in whom the sac remained unopened, seven died ; of the twenty-five in whom the sac was opened, eight died:" Mr. Luke afterwards, p. 105, op. cit. de- ducts the selected cases, and also four others from the eighty-four above mentioned, leaving fifty-four cases, the analysis of which he considers would give a fair account of the amount of success attend- ing this mode of operating, " Of the fifty cases, the sac was opened in twenty-one, of which three died; and not opened in thirty-three, of which two died. Thus, in upwards of three-fifths of the whole number, Petit's operation was successfully completed. " It should be recollected whilst comparing these results with each other, as well as with the results of the ordinary operation, in which the sac is opened extensively, that in opening the sac, in cases of failure, it has not usually been divided beyond a very limited extent (varying from one-quarter of an inch, to one inch and a quarter), and that con- sequently, the irritation, from exposure of the her- nial contents, and from tho rough and immediate handling which they too often undergo when already in a condition of high inflannuation, is almost wholly avoided. " With respect to the causes for opening the sac in these twenty-one cases, it appears that in threo Petit's operation was successfully completed; but the sac was opened after the reduction of the stran- gulated parts into tho abdomen, to remove some doubts as to their perfect liberation. The pro- ceeding in each case, however, was aa*r'tained to bo wholly unnecessary. In ten, the stricture was caused by the neck of the sac. In one, the stric- ture was at the inner ring. In one, the hernia (femoral) extended to the umbilicus and into tho