344 BONES, EXCISION OF removed to the extent of several inches. It was also necessary to extirpate the contiguous part of the pleura, which was very much tliickened, and transformed into a cancerous substance. Thus, the pulsations of the heart, witliin the pericardium, were brought completely into view. The case afterwards went on favourably for a time ; but in tlie end proved fatal by a return of the cancerous disease. I scarcely need advise British surgeons not to attempt any similar operation, where the disease of a rib, or indeed, of any other bone, is the eifect of a primary cancerous affection of the soft parts. Such an experiment must inevitably terminate in the return of the original malignant disease, unless the patient's accelerated death hap- pen not to leave sufficient time for this result. These observations are directed chiefly, however, to the particular case here specified ; for, as the excision of portions of ribs has been performed bv several eminent surgeons with success, I conclude that circumstances may occur in which the plan is justifiable. Not to lay any stress upon the in- stances of the practice in ancient times by Galen, Aymar, Sediller, Lecat, Ferrand, &c., it has been twice resorted to subsequently to Richerand's oper ation, and with success, by Attadini in Italy ; also in the Hospitals Beaujon and La Charite' at Paris; and by Dr. Mott of New York. The operation consists in extending the incision through the soft parts beyond the extent of the diseased portion of the rib, both in front and behind, and then, after detaching the bone from the pleura at the point where it is intended to divide it first, it may be sawn through with one of Hey's saws, or, what will be more convenient, divided with a pair of cutting pliers. The divided end of the bone should then be inclined outwards, and separated from its connections, so as to facilitate the safe division of it beyond the opposite extremity of the disease. A principal thing in the operation is to avoid in- jury of the pleura as much as possible. [In 1836, Warren removed three inches of the seventh, and two inches of the sixth ribs with their cartilages, in a case of hard immovable tumor connected with these ribs, which had existed for four years. The patient did well. In 1837, he also removed suc- cessfully two inches of the ninth rib with a portion of its cartilage, for an osteosarcomatous tumor of considerable size originating from that rib, but attached also firmly to the seventh, eighth, and tenth, ribs. In both these cases the diaphragm was exposed. (South's Translation of C/ielius, p. 1006, c. note.)] In 1825, the excision of the radius was accom- plished with complete success by Dr. R. Butt of Virginia; and in 1826, M. Velpeau had a case in which he was desirous of practising a similar opera- tion, on account of disease entirely restricted to that bone; but the patient preferred amputation. (See Velpeati, Noiiv. Elcm. de Med. Oper. t. i. p. 565.) An incision is made along tlie outer and anterior part of the radius. The edges of the wound are to be held apart, and the muscles detached from its anterior and posterior surfaces, a little below its middle part, where it is most superficial; a chain saw is to be used, a director is now being intro- duced at the ulnar side of the bone, will serve to convey the chain saw behind it. In the place specified the bone is sawn through, and the two fragments carefully dissected out. If suflicient room were not obtained for the action of tho saw by the longitudinal incision, a transverse one should also be made. (Fc/peaa, ib.) A strong pair of cutting forceps would divide the radius with less difficulty than a chain saw. [Ihe shaft of the ulna maybe removed in the same way, the external incision being made along the posterior angle of the bone, the soft parts detached, the bone divided near its centre, and each half disarticulated separately.] In an example of necrosis of the outer third of the clavicle, M. Velpeau removed the scupular por- tion of it. Two incisions, in a crucial form, and four inches long, were made, the flaps raised, the acromio-clavicular ligaments and some parts of the origin of the deltoid and trapezius divided. The bone was then raised with a lever passed into the joint, and its detachment completed. M. Mal- gaigne conceives, that a better plan would be to make first an incision, parallel to the clavicle, but a few lines below it, and ending at the acromion, and then another shorter one at a right angle with this extremity of the first, so as to form a triangu- lar flap. Instead of a chain saw, the clavicle may be very safely divided with one of Hey's saws, or a pair of cutting pliers, care being taken to pass a flexible copper spatula under the part. The sternal end of the clavicle was removed many years ago by Mr. Davie, a surgeon of Bungay in Suffolk, on account of its being displaced back- wards, and dangerously compressing the oesopha- gus ; in consequence of the scapula being forced very much forwards by a deformity of the spine. (See Sir Astley Cooper, On Dislocations.) In this operation a piece of leatiier was placed under the bone to protect the subjacent parts from the saw. The interclavicular ligament was torn through, so as to free the sternal end. The patient was alive six years after the operation, and in good health. The vjhoh clavicle affected with osteo-saixonia, was removed by Dr. Mott of New York. The tumor was of the size of two fists, and reached upwards nearly to the hyoid bone, and angle of the jaw. A semilunar incision, with its convexity downwards, was made below the swelling, from one end of the bone to the other. Another in- cision was ne.xt made above tlie tumor, from the acromion to the external margin of the internal jugular vein. The platysma and a portion of the trapezius having been divided, a director was passed under the bone, near the acromion, and a division here eifected with a chain saw. Not being yet able, however, to displace the tumor, Dr. Mott, with the aid of a director, extended the first incision, inwards; and having applied two ligatures to the external jugular vein, and cut it through in the interspace, he next divided the clavicular portion of tho sterno-mastoid muscle, and found it necessary also to tie and divide the internal jugular vein. The subclavian vein and thoracic duct were separated from the diseased parts with the handle of the scalpel. Lastly, the great pectoral muscle, the costo-clavicular ligament, and the subclavian muscle having been divided, the disarticulation of the sternal end of the clavicle was accomplished. The bleeding required forty ligatures for its suppression. In six weeks the wound was ncarlj' liealed, and the patient afterwards, with the aid of a mechanical substitute for the clavicle, retained the power of moving the limb, with but little impairment.