Y Y 3 and even in causing the absorption of tlio callus several years after its formation, so tliat a bone becomes flexible again at tlie point where it was formerly broken. In Lord Anson's Voyage this phenomenon is particularly recorded. (See p. 142, edit. 15, in 8vo.) Langenbeclc is acquainted witii several cases in which the provisional callus, at the end of eight weeks, became again soft, and the bone flexible, in consequence of the patients being at- tacked with fevers or erysipelas. (Neue Bibl. b. i. p. 90.) Cancer, lues venerea, and rickets are also stated by surgical writers to obstruct, and some- times hinder altogether, the formation of callus. Pregnancy, as I have remarked in a preceding part of this article, has been sometimes found to retard tlie union of a fracture. 4. Thickness of the Bone, and Weight which it Juts to support. The bones are thicker and larger in proportion as they have a greater weight to bear, and as the muscles inserted into them are more powerful. It is observed, cmteris paribus, that the larger the bones are, the longer is the time requi- site for their union. Thus, a broken thigh-bone is longer in growing together again than a frac- tured tibia ; the tibia longer than the humerus, the bones of the fore-arm, clavicle, ribs, &c. Besides the remarks made here, and in a pre- ceding page, on the causes preventing the union of fractures, a few additional observations on the same subject will be introduced in the sequel of this article, when I speak of the modes of attempting the cure of old disunited fractures. Three local circumstances were insisted upon by Boyer as necessary to obtain a firm callus, without deformity. 1. The two fragments must be pos- sessed of sufficient vascularity. 2. The surfaces of the fracture must correspond. 3. They must be kept in a completely motionless state. The tivo fragments must he sufficiently vascular. If one of them should be too scantily supplied with blood, the fracture would be incapable of vmion. This is what may happen in certain fractures of the neck of the femur, where the head of this bone is entirely detached, and the ligamentous substance which is reflected over its neck, and serves as its periosteum, is totally lacerated, as well as the ves- sels which ramify upon it. Hence, the upper frag- ment, lodged in the cotyloid cavity, may no longer receive from the vessels sent to it through the liga- mentum teres a sufficiency of blood for the forma- tion of callus with any degree of certainty. This is especially likely to be the case when the patient is far advanced in years, and the vessels consider- ably lessened in diameter. An adequate circula- tion must c.-cist in both portions of bone ; for without it the attempt at union will fail. The surfaces of the fracture must correspond. This circumstance is not absolutely necessary for the consolidation of the fracture ; but without it the formation of the callus will be slow and ir- regular. For instance, in a transverse fracture of the thigh-bone, the fragments, after being displaced according to the thickness of the bone, may undergo a second displacement, according to its length, by passing beyond each other. The surfaces of the fracture arc then not at all in contact, and the portions of bone only touch each other by their sides. Jlore, at the end of the second month, the union will frequently have made but little progress ; nor can the cure bo accomplished without deformity and shortening of the limb. FRACTURE. 693 T7ie fragments must he retained in a motionless state. This condition is so essential to the forma- tion of callus, that, if the ends of a fracture were daily moved, they could not unite. The two ex- tremities of the bone would then heal separately, just like the sides of a wound which have not been put in contact. Perhaps no subject has excited more discussion than the formation of callus. The ancients ascribed it to the extravasation of a gelatinous fluid, which was called the osseous juice, and which, becommg hard, served to unite the ends of the broken bone, just as glue serves to unite two pieces of wood. Hence, in order to favour the production of callus, they were in the habit of recommending their patients to eat abundantly of every sort of viscid farinaceous aliment, the glutinous parts of animals, and espe- cially osteocolla, of which Fabricius Hildanus re- lates miracles. According to Duhamel, callus is formed by the periosteum, which he regards as the organ of ossification. When a bone is fractured (says this naturalist), the periosteum of the two fragments first grows together, and then swells, and forms a circular rising round the fracture. The thickened membrane is converted into a gelatinous sub- stance, which soon becomes cartilaginous. In this vessels are developed, and different points of ossification commence, which multiply and unite. Thus, when every part of the periosteum near the fracture is hardened and ossified, this memhrane is changed, as it were, into a sort of clasp, which ex- tends over the two fragments, and holds them to- gether. It was objected to Duhamel's theory, that, if a bone be slit longitudinally in the situation of a former fracture, the fragments are observed to have their substances blended completely together, and not simply to lie in contact in the manner of two pieces of wood placed end to end, and kept in contact by means of a clasp. Diihamel, with the view of obviating this difficulty, supposed that.the periosteum elongated itself from the circumference towards the centre of the bone, and that such con- tinuation of this membrane underwent the same changes as that portion which was contiguous to the i'raoture, and thus served to unite the ends of the fragments between which it was interposed. He admits also in some cases that the internal ■periosteum, or medullarg membrane, may furnish produitions extending hctivaen the ends of the frac- ture, like the continuation of the external perios- teum with which they become connected. Lastly, ho supposed that in young subjects, whose bones had not acquired their full degree of hardness, the cartilaginous part was capable of extension, and that, in cases of fracture, it contributed to the more perfect union of the fragments. Boyer thought that Duhamel imputed too much to the periosteum ; but that Hallor and Dethleef wore also wrong, when they supposed that an un- organised lymph could produce an organised sub- stance by inspissation. (Sec Le second Hfcmoirc sur Ics Os, par M. Bordenuve, recudtict public par M. Fougeroux,\\ 121.) Itapiiearod to Boyermuch more natural to believe that the gelatinous lymph already contains the rudiments of organisation, which become visible as they are developed ; just as it is usually believed that the rudiments of all our organs are contained in the transparent mucil- age of whidi the embryo seems to consist.