HERNIA. From the views taken of femoral hernia in this article, I consider the unrestricted direction always to cut Gimbernat's ligament in the operation to be erroneous. For, as Langenbeck has stated, the seat of strangulation may either be in the external aperture of the crural canal, or in an opening of the front or inner side of this passage, or in its inner opening, where indeed Gimbernat's ligament and the attachment of the falciform process of the fascia lata to it are truly concerned. When the stran gulation is of the two first descriptions, he states^ that only the fascia lata need be cut ; but, in the third, most frequent case, the inner semi-lunar edge of the crural ring (Gimbernat's ligament) should be divided. In all cases, says Langenbeck, whe- ther the strangulation be caused by the inner or external opening of the crural canal, or by an aperture in the front parietes of this passage, th_ stricture must be cut inwards, as directing the cut in the least outwards would injure the epigastric artery. When it is perceived in the operation that the neck of the hernial sac is strangulated close below and behind the external pillar of the abdominal ring, the inner opening of the crural canal must be divided inwards, with the knife directed along the horizontal ramus of the os pubis, under the external pillar of the ring, towards the symphysis of the pubes. If, in such a case, the knife were carried inwards and upwards, that part of Poupart's ligament forming the upper side of the crural canal might be cut and the spermatic artery injured. {Neue Bill. b. ii. p. 133.) Dr. Triistedt has published some remarks in favour of employing dilatation, instead of an in- cision, in the operation for strangulated crural hernia. He observes that even when the common trunk of the obturatrix and epigastric arteries is short, the bowels may protrude under the first of these arteries, which will lie upon the upper and inner side of the hernia. In an operation per- formed upon a woman, in La Charite at Berlin, for a strangulated femoral hernia, the crural liga- ment was_ divided in Gimbernat's way by an in- cision exactly parallel to the horizontal ramus of the OS pubis. The obturatrix artery was wounded, and the patient died eight days after the operation, having been previously attacked by trismus and opisthotonos. On dissection, about six ounces of putrid blood were found in the lesser cavity of the pelvis, and the above artery cut. The vessel arose from the epigastric, ran over the upper edge of the inner opening of the crural canal, or ring, and then descended along its inner edge, towards the obturator foramen. This occasional course of the obturatrix artery leads Dr. Triistedt to suggest the following rules:—If, after the hernial sac is opened, the bowels cannot be returned, the outer opening of the crural canal should be cut directly inwards, in order to produce a considerable relaxation. But if the reduction should yet be impracticable (the strangulation being at the inner opening of the canal), then an attempt is to be made to insinuate the end of the finger through the constriclion ; a plan said to have answered very often in the praptico of Surgeon-General Rust. Should the resistance be too great, however, for this method to succeed, Triistedt advises the crural ligament to be forcibly drawn inwards and upwards towards the navel, with Arnaud's tenaculum, as- sisted by the introduction of the finger, or with two hooks. When this plan fails, he recommends Schreger's practice of dividing the anterior edge of Poupart's ligament with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors, and then the use of Arnaud's tenaculum again. (See Rust's Magazin fiu- die gesammtc Heilkunde, b, iii, h, 2.) The consideration, how- ever, which will ever prevent the common adop- tion of Dr. Trustedt's suggestion, is that fifty times more lives would be lost by the mischief done to the protruded bowels by the forcible introduction of the fingers and hooks, than by hemorrhage from the obturatrix, or epigastric artery, when the course of the vessel is irregular. Mr. Aston Key, who is an advocate for not opening the sac, makes the following remarks : — The inverted T incision, usual in the operation for femoral hernia, may be, in most cases, reduced to a single incision, either at right angles to Poupart's ligament, or in a transverse direction across the tumor. " I have not (says he) made trial of the perpendicular form of incision, but a single transverse one I have found sufficient, when the integuments have been loose, and the tumour not large. The superficial fascia adheres firmly to the common integuments, and is usually turned aside with them, especially when the latter are pinched up for the purpose of making the first incision. The fascia propria is therefore quickly exposed, and forms the first distinct covering of the tumor, being darker than the more superficial investment. It is under the outer layer of this fascia that the adipose structure is formed, which often assumes the appearance of omentum. The director easily makes its way under this fatty matter, as far as the neck of the sac, which lies deeper than the ope- rator at first supposes. The point of the director should be applied rather to the inner than to the outer part of the neck of the sac, as it will be found to pass more easily under the stricture at this part. It should not at first be attempted to be thrust under the stricture, as the firmness of the parts forming the stricture would resist it. But the seat of stricture being felt, the operator should depress the end of the director upon the sac, which will yield before it, and then, by an onward movement, the director slides under the stricture." Mr. Key takes the opportunitj' of remarking, that the constriction, at the femoral aperture, is not en- tirely produced by a process from Poupart's liga- ment, but, in part, by a tendinous band on the forepart of the femoral sheath, where the fascia transversalis passes in a funnel-form behind Gim- emat's ligament to be inserted into the pubes. (See Mem. on i/ie Advantages of dividing the Stricture, S[o. on the outside of the sac, p, 142— 145, Ovo. Lond. 1833.) [Mr. Gay, who is also strongly in favor of divi- sion of the stricture in cases of strangulated hernia without opening the sac, published a work in 1848 on femoral rupture, in which he recommends a new mode of operating for this species of hernia. Some very useful statistical tables, bearing on the more interesting questions connected with femoral rup- ture, will be found in Mr. Gay's valuable mono- graph, a perusal of which will well repaj' the reader. His new operation, as described by him- self, is here quoted :— " For the first step of the operation, two imngin- ary lines should be drawn from the point directly over the inner side of the neck of the hernial tumor; one to the tuberosity of the pubis; tlio other down the thigh, along the inner side of the