922 arachnoid cavity are absorbed, and it is well known that a very extensive layer of blood may remain in the same cavity for a long time without giving rise to positive signs of pressure. (See a detail of experiments by Serres and Malgaigne, Brit, and For. Quarterly Review, October 1840.) When blood is poured out into the arachnoid and the trephine is applied, the dura mater is found to be pushed up through the opening made, and presents a bluish aspect; the cerebral im- pulse is scarcely perceptible, or altogether ab- sent. Under such circumstances the surgeon is justified in puncturing the membrane with a lan- cet, which affords the only chance of relief. A very small puncture is sufficient, as the blood remains in a perfectly fluid state. We shall quote two iiistances, one from the eighth volume of the Medical and Physical Journal, and the other on the authority of Sir B. Brodie, showing remark- able success following this plan of treatment. " The late Mr. Chevalier was called to a child a year and a half old, who had received a severe blow on its head. The child lay in a state of insensibility, and was affected with convulsions. There was no wound of the scalp, but on atten- tive examination of the head the fontanel ap- peared to be somewhat elevated. Mr. Chevalier was led therefore to make a crucial incision of the scalp, by dissecting up the corners of which he exposed the fontanel. He then made an angular incision of the right side, and raised the mem- brane forming it so as to expose the surface of the dura mater, beneath which the purple colour of extravasated blood was plainly to be seen. A puncture being made carefully with a lancet, the blood issued at first with considerable force to the distance of a foot. Three or four ounces of blood escaped. The symptoms were immediately re- lieved, and the child recovered without any fur- ther unfavourable symptoms." The next case occurred in the practice of Mr. Ogle :—" A woman fell from the street, head fore- most, to the bottom of a cellar, and was taken up in a state of insensibility. Mr. Ogle found her lying as if in a fit of apoplexj'. He ordered her head to be shaved, and on examining it afterwards discovered no wound of the scalp, but observed that she flinched very much when pressure was made on the spot near the anterior and superior angle of one of the parietal bones. Having made an incision at this part he could perceive no ap- pearance of fracture. Nevertheless, as the woman was manifestly in danger, he thought it expe- dient to remove a portion of bone with the tre- phine. Immediately on the bone being removed, the dura mater, of a dark colour, rose into the opening nearly as high as the external surface of the skull. Convinced, from its appearance and from the feeling of tension communicated to the fingers, that a fluid was interposed between it and the brain, and that that fluid was blood, Mr. Ogle ventured to puncture the dura mater with the point of a lancet. The puncture was in- stantly followed by a stream or jet of blood, Which spirted out to the height of some feet. Im- mediately on the blood being discharged the woman, who till that moment had continued totally insensible, opened her eyes. From this time she recovered without any untoward symp- ofan,,,,!'''"^*^??'"'"^ a^o'it three-quarters * an ounce of blood escaped." HEAD, INJURIES OF THE, Some precaution is requisite in making an open- ing through the dura mater, for where there is much distension of the veins on the surface of the brain, a preternaturally blue appearance is given to the dura mater, which we have seen mistaken for effused blood; the operation, however, is the only means likely to be successful for the relief of the brain imder circumstances of such pressing emergency. The diagnosis of effusions of blood between the bone and the dura mater, and into the arachnoid cavity, is obscure; any deduc- tions, therefore, from practical observation can- not but be interesting. Hence we extract the following remarks of Mr. Cock from the paper before mentioned. He says: " I have observed that in every case of this kind (viz. where the effusion is external to the dura mater) the pure symptoms of compression are more distinctly and strongly marked than where they are occasioned by depressed bone or effusion of blood in any other situation. There is a death-like quietude of the limbs; the face is devoid of expression or muscular motion; the powers of the patient seem concentrated to produce the laborious heavings o' the chest; whilst the lips and cheeks are me- chanically puffed out as the air is expelled at each expiration. These signs, together with the deep loud tone of the stertor, are, we think, very characteristic. The pupil also, on the same side as the extravasation, will generally be found dilated. These peculiarities may probably be at- tributed to the clot of blood being to a certain degree circumscribed in extent, to its great depth, and the pressure which it consequently exerts on the opposite surface of the brain, which becomes deeply impressed by it; whereas, when blood is effused into the arachnoid cavity, it is generally less in quantity, and spreads over a much wider surface, producing more general and less local pressure." As to the general treatment to be pursued where there is no indication to lend to the application of the trephine and puncture of the dura mater, it must obviously be conducted on strictly antiphlogistic principles, and may be comprised under the heads of free abstraction of blood generally and locally, cold applications to the head, the employment of mercury to affect the gums, and brisk purging, with due attention to the state of the bladder, position of the head, &c. &c. In treating of exfoliation of bone, suppuration, which not unfrequently occurs during this process and becomes a very formidable cause of pressure upon the brain, has been already alluded to. The seat of the suppuration may be either between the dura mater and the bone, or in the arachnoid cavity, or in the substance of the brain itself. The train of symptoms which usher in these for- midable afl'ections have been mentioned in the description of inflammation of the dura mater dur- ing exfoliation; but we again allude to them under the head of pressure. Of course, in suppuration upon the brain, the symptoms never make their ap- pearance until some time has elapsed after the accident, and they are ushered in with rigors, con- vulsions, frequently vomiting of bilious matter, and the general signs of what has been termed bilious fever; the countenance becomes sallow, the pulse is accelerated, and the wound takes on the un- healthy aspect already described. After this the brain begins to siifTer from the pressure of the