FRACTURE, 74,0 t thrown hy tlie acciileiit, ov that of bringing about, 1 and securing, by artificial means, tlie proper appo- j sition of the fnigments, is the more likely to accora- ■ plisli these objects. He believes also, that they will enable us to draw a comparison between the ■ advantages of the flexed and straight postures. It appears to him that no advantage whatever is . g lined by leaving the ends of a broken bone in any : manner out of place. The excuse for this practice, i founded on the doctrine of relaxing the muscles to [ prevent or relieve spasms, he regards as completely • erroneous; and he insists upon the fact, that re- . laxation of the muscles which have a tendcnc)' to ! spasmodic contraction, excites and promotes it ; ■ whilst, on the other hand, extension, or stretching of the same muscles, is the most likely means of i averting or subduing the spasm. In the spasmodic 1 action of the gastrocnemius, which follows over- ' exertion of it, he observes, relief is sought in an ; attempt at elongating the muscular fibres by stretch- ing out tlie heel. A person in bed seized with I such cramps, will press the heel of the affected limb against the footboard, or get out of bed, in or- ' der to accomplish more effectually the same object, by standing with the heel on the ground. In this case, says Dr. Houston, it is obvious that the re- laxation of the muscle is favourable to the occur- rence of spasm, and that extension constitutes a means of relief. The primary cause of spasms of the muscles in fractures he conceives to be the loosening of one or other of their fixed points of attachment; and he thinks it not likely that by leaving them in the loosened state, or by giving one set of muscles a greater degree of relaxation than another, a check will be given to irregularity in their movements. On the contrary, it appears to Dr. Houston, both from an examination into the laws of muscular contraction, and from observa- tions of the phenomena which occur in other cases of disease, as well as in fractures, that the more completely the muscles are extended in length, and secured by their extremities to unyielding points, the less will be their disposition to spasmodic ac- tion. The practice of placing a broken limb in the bent posture does not appear to Dr. Houston the most calculated to avert or check spasms; for, by such posture, the most powerful set of muscles, the flexors, seem to him to be brought into a condition "favouring the energy of their contraction;" whilst the influence of the extensors, in counteracting the effects of such contraction, is weakened nearly in the same degree. Moderate soft pressure on the surface of a frac- tured limb, appears to Dr. Houston to assist in the prevention of cramps in the long imiscles, "on tlie same principle, that proper fixtures for the attach- ment of their distal extremities contributes to that effect. Such pressure may exert its beneficial in- fluence in controlling any irregular action in the muscles by niimhing their sensihility, and pro- ducing in them a certain amount of fatigue wliich weakens their powers of contraction, as well as by propping together, and keeping steady the broken fragments of the bone." (See Dublin Jotirn. of Med. Science, vol. viii. art. 19.) Dr. Houston's views of the physiology of mus- cular action, with reference to fractures of the ex- tremities, make him an advocate for the extended posture, accompanied, if necessary, witii extension. The cases which he has published are brought forward to prove tlie eflicacj' of this practice in preventing the occurrence of spasms, inflammation, and fever; and some of them to exemplify its utility even when circumstances have prevented its adoption until after the coming on of these symp- toms. Dr. Ilouston finds that the patient " be- comes sooner reconciled to the bed in this posture, than in the flexed one; he can be shifted more readily, so as to vary the points of contact between his body and the bed, and thereby save himself from excoriations, or sloughing of any part; and he can assume the sitting posture, and maintain it with less fatigue, for a considerable time. A better judgment may be formed of the length and shape of the broken limb, by its admitting of a compari- son with the sound one; the limb can be kept more steady; and extension, if necessary, can be more readilv and effectually practised.'' (^Houston, vol. cit. p.'489.) The doMe-indined plane does not appear to Dr. Houston exempted, in any considerable degree, from the ordinary inconveniences attendant on any other plan of treatment, which has for its object the principle of relaxation, or flexure of the limb; " whilst it is almost totally useless, as a means either of effecting elongation of a shortened bone, or of giving, in many cases, steady support to the member. Besides, it throws the weight of the body so completely on one part of the buttock, and by its bulk and shape so deprives the patient of the means of relieving himself from such injurious pressure, that excoriation and sloughing of tlie hips are frequent consequences of its use." (p. 490.) Dr. Houston also objects to the double-inclined plane for fractures of the thigh, because it has no provision " by which the upper fragment may be steadied against the lower, especially in cases where the lesion in the bone has taken place near the trochanters. The lower piece, together with the knee and leg, are immoveably fixed, whilst the upper is left in such a predicament that the least movement of the buttocks bends it from side to side, and rubs and twists its broken surface against that from which it has been detached. There is no provision in the inclined plane by which the upper part of the thigh, when bent upon the pelvis, can be secured against the motions communicated to it by that part, such as may be effected in the extended posture hy long splints and pads passing up on the inside close to the perineum, and on the outside, as far along the body as may be thought necessary, securing thereby all the parts, so that, in any movement which is made, all must go to- gether, as if they were one solid piece." (Vol cit. p. 492.) The usual objections to the straight posture in fractures just below the trochanters, on account of the tendency of the upper fragment to be pulled forwards by the psoas and iliacus muscles, were not exemplified in one of the cases of this descrip- tion, the particul.irs of which are given by Dr Houston. " Tiie projection forwards of the upper piece, so remarkable in the first days niter the ac- cident, gradually subsided, under gentle pressure on the forepart of the thigh, and the bones finally assumed their natural points of connexion with each otiier. Hy the adoption of the extended posture, with tlie aid of extension, that deformity, 80 common in fractures of the thigh, permanent eversion of the toes, and I believe also that of shortening of the limb, will be more probably averted than can be done under the best diiecto4