CATARACT, 437 F F 3 lact; and, sccoudlj', the breaking of the lens to pieces, and the division and laceration of its capsule. For these purposes, Beer prefers a common, straight, spear-shaped, sharp-edged, couching-needle, to any curved one, however fine it may he made ; first, because it pierces the cornea with greater facility ; secondly, because both a soft cataract and the cap- sule can be more effectually cut with it, a larger opening being made, through which the aqueous luimour may flow over the fragments of the lens, and the dissolution of the cataract be thus ren- dered more certain ; whereas, with a curved needle, Beer says, the lens can only be distiu-bed, and the capsule torn, under which circumstances inflamma- tion and a secondary capsular cataract are likely to be produced. He directs the instrument to be introduced either at the lower, or at the external part of the cornea, one line and a half from its margin, the point being directed obliquelj* towards the pupil, and the capsule is to be efreclually cut by moving the extremity of the needle laterally in various ways ; and, above all things, it is neces- sarj', at the time of breaking the lens piecemeal, not to let the instrument continue always witliiii this body ; but, at every stroke, to lilt it con pletely out of the lens and capsule, and then introduce it into them again in different directions. Dr. Jacob prefers, fur the performance of this operation, a fine sewing-needle, curved at the point. He says, that it rarely or never leaves the slightest mark in the cornea. " The capsule can be opened to ai y extent ; a soft or friable lens can bo actually broken up into a pulp, by pushing the curved extremity of the needle into its centre, and rev living the handle between the fingers; large fragments can be taken up on the point of the needle from the anterior chamber, and forced back out of the way of the iris ; or, if sufficiently soft, may be divided by pressing them against the back of the cornea with the convexity of the needle," &e. (See Dublin Hospital RepoHs, vol. iv. p. 224.) Others give the preference to an extremely fine, small, and sharp needle, slightly flattened for a short distance from its point, and with cutting edgrs to facilitate its passage through the cornea. It should increase in size from its point, so that its introduction may not cause the escape of the aqueous humour. (See Middlcmore, On Dis. of ilie Eiic, vol. ii. p. 155.) It may be necessary to repeat keratonyxis two or three times, and this is more prudent than doing too much injury on any one occasion. {Middlo- tnore, vol. ii. p. 156.) After the operation, the same light mode of dressing and the same after-treatment are proper, as are adopted in cases of depression and reclination. Under the most favourable circumstances, several weeks, and sometimes as many months, elapse, before the pupil becomes quite transparent. According to Beer, keratonyxis is not liable to many accidents. Sometimes, says he, the artifi- cially dilated pupil contracts, as soon as the needle has pierced the cornea, and reached the cataract: in this circumstance, the operator must wait quietly, until the pupil gradually expands again, a change which may be promoted by screening the eye with the hand. If the operation were to be con- tinued without delay, either the pupillary edge of the iris would be seriously and dangerously hurt by the needle, or the cataract could not be effec- tually divided. When, contrary to expectation, the nucleus of the cataract is too hard to be broken piecemeal, reclination and depression should be done through the cornea, as well as circumstances will allow, and these objects can be more easily effected with a part than with the whole of the lens. When the lens is found completely fluid, but the capsule opaque only at some points, Beer, with the view of preventing a secondary capsular cataract, recommends cutting the membrane in all directions, and annihilating it as much as possible. Keratonyxis may be followed by the same evils which occasionally take place after depression and reclination, and which will require similar treat- ment. But, according to Beer's experience, one of the most frequent consequences is a secondary capsular cataract, which often ensues even though the pupil was quite clear at the time of the opera- tion ; and though it may not quite blind the pa- tient, it considerably lessens his power of vision; and renders the operation incomplete. When the sole object of keratonyxis is to break and cut the catarnct and its capsule piecemeal, and the fragments are to be left to dissolve and be absorbed, the operatimi can be indicated only where this division, breaking, dissohitioii, and absorption of the cataract can be successfully wrought. Hence, Beer sets down the method as not calculated for firm, hard, lenticular cata- racts ; nor for those which are softish and sca- brous only upon their surface ; and, he says, that it is not suited for capsuln-lenticuiar cataracts, nor for any cases, trrmed false cataracts, which are of a membranous nature. Keratonyxis, he observed, may be exjiected to answer nnly in fluid or fielatinous cataracts, when the capsule is either little or not at all opaque ami thickened, and of course can be easily opened and cut to pieces, as in the case described under the name of encysted cataract. For the above reasons, the method is well adapted for children and young subjects, in whom the origin and general complications of a cataract involve the case in suspicious circum- stances. After keratonyxis, the dilatation of the pupil should be kept up by means of belladonna, until all symptoms of inflammation have subsided. (See Guthrie's Operative Surgery of the jEi/e, p. 336.) Keratonj'xis (the anterior operation of solu- tion) and extraction seem to Mr. Middlemore to comprise all the feasible operations per- formed for the cure of lenticular cataract an- terior to the iris ; for he is unwilling to include reclination and depression, which he believes are more advantageonsl)' executed throngli the sclerotica. " If," says ho, " we review the number and importance of the textures which have been divided or injured, we find, that, with the exception of the parts actually impli- cated in the disease, the cornea alone is injured. At least, they are the only parts, the texture of which is necessarily penetrated." The cornea, it is well known, is not a highly sensible part; and hence the anterior keratonyxis and extraction give less pain than other operations for cataract. (See Middlemore, On Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 156.) Valuable information on keratonyxis has been published by Ijangenbeck in the 4th vol. of his first Bibliothek ; in the 1st vol. of his now Bibl. p. 1, &c. 1815 ; and in a tract entitled