359 BURNS. A. A 4 the leg, or fore-arm, should be kept half bent, or, what is still better, in a state of complete and forced flexion. When the armpit is burnt, the arm should be kept in the position of abduction; but in that of adduction when the top of the shoulder is the seat of the burn. (See Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 27.) Dupuytren notices some circumstances, how- ever, under which it is difficult, or impossible, for the foregoing principle to be acted upon in practice. Such is the case where the skin ail round the member has been destroyed to some extent: by adopting one position the advantages of another would be lost. Here Dupuytren advises a posi- tion to be selected which will leave a cicatiix that will interfere least with the free movements of the part. Thus, if the burn occupies the whole surface of the radio-carpal articulation, it is better to keep the wrist extended than bent, because the cicatrix, which would confine the joint in the first posture, would be less inconvenient than one which would fix it in the second. In some of these perplexing cases, Dupuytren considers it advantageous to adopt diiferent positions alternately, and to hasten cica- trisation on one side and retard it .on the other. (See Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 29.) Mr. Earle is of opinion that, by due attention to certain principles, the deformities from burns may generally be avoided. " I am quite ready to ad- mit (he observes) that it is not in our power to arrest the law of nature, by which a cicatrised surface becomes smaller, and occupies less space, than the original wound; but it is in our power, in most cases, to direct and modify that which we cannot wholly prevent; and thus, at aU events, to counteract its injurious effect. We cannot prevent the process of absorption (of the granulations), but we can prevent its taking place in a direction which may interfere with the healthy functions of the part. To take tlie upper extremity as an example. 1 will suppose a case where the whole integuments on the inner and front part of the arm and fore-arm have been destroyed. If such ex- tremity be kept carefully extended on a splint, not only during the whole progress of healing, but long subsequent to the perfect cicatrisation, you will find that the cicatrised surface will diminish in a circular direction, drawing the healthy integu- ment together from side to side ; but, that no con- traction will take place in the long axis, in which alone it can impede the due motions of the limb. This permanent extension should be persevered in during the day and night, until all changes have ceased, and the cicatrix has contracted to its smallest dimensions. Care, however, should be taken, during this time, to give passive motion to the different joints, by which the proper secretion of synovia will be kept up, and the eventual free use of the limb will be insured. This plan of mainta,ining the limb in a state of permanent extension should be commenced as soon as the wound has begun to granulate." (See Earles Led. on Burns, p. 43.) Cases are noticed by Dupuytren, in which the plans calculated to produce a good cicatrix cannot be persevered in without danger; as, where the patient is likely to be exhausted by the long and profuse discharge. Here, instead of retarding the formation of the cicatrix, and compelling nature to fill up the chasm with anew texture, it is necessary to expedite it by favouring the approximation of the edges of the ulcer to one another, promoting the development of the tissues of union, or exciting inflammation when it is languid, and repressing it when it is too violent. But, in such cases, it is prudent to follow Dupuytren's advice in apprising the patient, or his friends, of the necessity for this plan, and of the deformity which will unavoidably follow it. There are also certain regions of the body, specified by Dupuytren, where no advantage can be derived from position, and where it is exceed- ingly difficult to prevent deformity. Such, in par- ticular, is the face. Thus, if a burn of the fourth degree were to destroy a portion of the lower eye- lid and cheek, it would be impossible to hinder the edges of the ulcer from getting nearer together, and the eyelid would be drawn down until it al- most formed a junction with the upper lip. If a similar burn were to occur on the forehead, temples, upper eyelid, or scalp, an analogous deformity would be result. Feeble as the means are which are within the surgeon's reach, when position is unavailing, they should never be neglected. Here, as Dupuytren explains, it is proper, 1. To retard, as much as possible, the detachment of the eschar, which, so long as it remains, has the effect of keep- ing the edges of the ulcer apart. The healing processes commence under it, and the margins of the chasm, becoming more fixed to the subjacent textures by inflammation, are less disposed to be drawn towards one another when the separation of the eschar does take place. 2. As soon as the latter event has occurred, cicatrisation is to be quickened, by frequently touching the ulcer with the nitrate of silver. Care is also to be taken to prevent any cicatrising points in the centre, or at the circumference of the ulcer, from being destroyed, by the pus being suffered to continue too long in contact with them. Hence Dupuytren was an ad- vocate for frequently washing the part and renew- ing the dressings. In burns, attended with a more or less consider- ab e destruction of textures, the cicatrices which follow are frequently deformed, and sometimes mterfere seriously with the free motion of the parts on which they are situated, or even totally prevent tlie execution of some function. The plan re- commended by Dupuytren for the hindrance of these ill consequences, is to take care that the cicatrix may be of nearly the same extent as the destroyed skin, and that it may not heal by the approximation of its margins to one another. The end may almost always be fulfilled by carefully applying the nitrate of silver to the granulations which are too high; by placing the limb in a proper position, and employing suitable dressinirs and splints. Ihus, if the bum be situated ovtr the flexor muscles, the limb should be kont ex- tended ; if over the extensor muscles, bent. Tents tubes, or pieces of sponge, are to be kept in natural openings, which the healing process may tend to contract or close. Parts, like the fingefs, which are disposed to grow together, are to be ken apart with lint or plaster. In the face, where the parts are so moveable and extensible, more or less deformity cannot always be prevented; but tie best way of counteracting the tendency to it seemed to Dupuytren to consist in drawinir tho margins of the ulcer away from one another with straps of adhesive plaster, and other means which circumstances will admit of. But whenever the