292 aiuiitorius. SriUy, That its frontal branch runs' forward from its origin, and its occipital branch in the opiiosite direction. A good phace for the punc- ture is about four lines above the zygoma. In many instances, the requisite quantity of blood cannot be drawn by this operation, as every sur- geon of experience must have observed. In order to prevent the blood from trickling down over the bedding or clothes, when it does not issue in a jet, the French make a little gutter with a piece of card for conveying it into the basin. After tlie proper quantity of blood has been taken away, a graduated compress and a few turns of a roller round the forehead, temple, and occiput, are to be applied. In a few cases, notwithstanding pressure, the blood bursts forth from time to time ; and when this happens, it is best to cut the vessel completely across, which will enable its ends to retract and contract, and thus promote the process of nature in closing them. In three or four days the wound is generally healed, but occasionally an aneurism follows ; an interesting memoir ou which subject has been published by M. Desruelles. (See Mem. de la Soc. Med. d'Emdation, t. ix. p. 277.) In one instance, Cavallini effected a cure by dividing the vessel and compression. ( Collez di Cad CIdr. t. ii. Firenze, 1762.) Sir Benjamin Brodie in- formed me of a case which he treated successfully in a similar manner. In the course of the present year, 1836, a woman was under my care in Uni- versity College Hospital for a temporal aneurism, which followed cupping on the temple. As the blood found its way freely into the tumor, after one branch had been tied, I divided another, and applied a compress ; the plan w.is then effectual. Sir Astley Cooper informed me of a temporal aneu- rism which was produced by a person falling with his temple against the corner of a table. M. Blandin had a patient, who, in consequence of arteriotom}', suffer. d acute pains, which ex- tended to the top of the head, in the track of the superficial temporal nerve ; this consequence, which is uncommon, may be relieved by lengthening the puncture, or incision, at each of its angles, or even cuttiun- out a portion of the nerve. (See Did. de Med.lt de Chir. Praiiques, t. xiv. p. 422.) ARTERITIS. Injiammalion of an Artery. As the coats of arteries possess vessels and nerves of their own, and have an organisation more or less similar to that of all the living textures of the body, they must be liable to inflammation, suppuration, ulceration and gangrene, as well as other morbid changes, especially a deposit of calcareous or athe- romatous matter, between the inner and middle coats. Arteritis, as contrasted with phlebitis, or inflammation of veins, is much less perfectly un- derstood, so far as the symptoms and diagnosis are concerned. It is very certain, however, that the arteries are not so irritable as the veins, and, con- sequently, that arteritis is less frequent than phle- bitis. Pathologists divide it into acute and chronic. The anatomical cliaracters of the acute are, red- ness of the internal membrane of the artery af- fected, an effusion of plastic fibrine on its inner surface, thickening of its substance, and sometimes ulceration. When inflammation runs from a wound, or some other point of irritation, along the internal coat of an artery far towards the iieart, it is like phlebitis ; a formidable disease, rapidly producing great irritative fever, an extremely quick pulse, complete collapse, low delirium, and generally ARTERITIS. death. Arteritis, by completely obstructing a main artery and its principal branches, is sometimes a cause of mortification. The treatment of acute arteritis consists in bleeding, purgatives, diapho- retics, low diet, cooling diluent drinks, and perfect tranquillity. Digitalis, tartrate of antimonj', and super acetate of lead, are also prescribed on the principle of calming the circulation ; but, as Dr. Hope observes, they must be used with discretion. (See Oi/clop. of Pract. Med. part. ii. p. 149.) Af- ter the" first violence of the inflammation has been checked, mercury is sometimes given, so as to ex- cite gentle but quick salivation. Chronic arteritis is more common than acute. The internal membrane becomes thickened, sof- tened, and of a deep, dirty red colour. "These appearances," says Dr. Hope, " are not uniformly diffused, but more marked in the vicinity of cal- careous and other degenerations. Hence, some have supposed that these degenerations were the cause of the inflammation. There can be little doubt that they tend, in many instances, to keep it up ; but, it is highly probable that the degene- rations themselves were originally caused by in- creased vascular actions of a chronic nature." (See Cyclop, of Pract. Med. part ii. p. 145.)— The formation of spontaneous aneurisms is now commonly believed to have its origin in chronic arteritis. [As our opinions change with regard to the vascular supply to, and mode of nutrition of, any tissue, so must our views, with respect to the morbid changes to which such tissue is liable, and their mode of production, undergo modification. Many histologists now consider that the internal and middle fibrous coats of arteries belong to the so-called non vascular tissues, and that they are dependent for their nutrition not upon the blood carried to tliem by the vasa vasorum, but that they obtain it by imbibition from the blood current they contain, and with which they are in contact. Pathologists who hold these anatomical views,_ must explain the well-known morbid conditions ot the inner and middle coats of arteries very dif- ferently from their predecessors. Accordingly, we find Rokitansky and others ascribing to arteritis only those changes which are observed as the result of inflammation carried on in the otiter coat ofan artery by the vasa vasorum to which coat alone they admit these vessels to belong. These morbid changes consist of the ordinary results of inflammatory action, and are attended by the usual symptoms associated with this process, such as increased vascularity, pain, and tumelaction and are of course accompanied by the ordinary nifiltra- tion of serum, lymph, or pus; these infiltrations, it is admitted, may permeate, and more or less disin- tegrate the middle fibrous coat, and thus secon- darilv interfere with its nutrition, and even with that of the internal coat. The principal changes produced by inflammation of an artery ct.rr.ed on by the >-ii a vasorum of the outer coat. Rokitansky thus d3es:--l."/"Mo«, redness of the cellular tZh^fthe .c../.-This iV""T\'ihment'''Tf distinctly apparent after the establishment of those product which we are about to name.-2. rZZion of the cellular sheath, with a serous ^fibrinous; partially solidify ingmo,stun.,.n^ pufiiuess; in some few cases ^''^f 'S''^*, furulent exudations, which are e't''""J"', limited to individual points, or grouped into cir