ERYSIPELAS. 627 S 8 2 ENCEPHALOCELE. (From ivKeipaKov, the brain, and K^Ar;, a tumour.) A hernia of the brain. (See Hernia Cerkbri.) ENCYSTED TUMOURS. (See Tumours, Encysted.) ENEMA. The following are some of the most useful glysters employed in the practice of siu'gery, Cal7iariic. P>. Decocti hordei ib j. Sodii chlovidi ^i-—Misce. Jl. Decocti avenaj lb j. Olei oliva; ^ ij. Magnesise sulphatis ^ j. — Misce. Anod}/?ie. P;. Mucilaginis amyli. Aquas destillatae sing. 5 ij. TincturcB opii guttas XL.—Misce. P). Olei olivffi 3 iv. Tincturso opii guttas XL. —Misce. The two latter are particularly useful, when great irritation exists about the rectum, bladder, or urethra. They have great effect in diminishing spasmodic affections of this canal and neck of the bladder. Hence they are often employed in re- tention of urine, in which cases their total quantity should not exceed two or three ounces, which will be more likely than a larger quantity to remain within the bowel a sufficient time to let the anodyne qualities of the opium have the de- sired influence. Tobacco, Employed in cases of strangulated hernia. |!>. Nicotians 3 j. Aq. ferventis lb j. The plant is to be macerated ten minutes, and the liquor then strained for use. One half should be first injected, and soon afterwards the other, unless the glyster operate with dangerous violence, as it some- times does in particular constitutions. ENTEROCELE. (From k'vrepa, the bowels, and K<)A.r?, a tumour.) A hernia, the contents of which are intestine. (See Hernia.) ENTERO-EPIPLOCELE. (Erom (vrepa, the bowels, iirlTr\oOv, the omentum, and /cljAi, a tu- mour.) A hernia, the contents of which are both intestine and omentum. (See Hernia.) ENTROPIUM (from eV and rpeTroi, to turn). An inversion of the eyelids, (See Trichiasis.) EPIPHORA (from imfpepu, to carry with force). By this term is meant an accumulation of tears on the anterior part of the eye ; in consequence of which, the person affected is not only under the necessity of frequently wiping them away, but vision is injured by the morbid refraction which they pro- duce of the rays of light that enter the pupil. Slillicidimi lachrymarumh distinguished by modern writers from epiphora: the cause of stillicidium lies in some obstacle to the absorption and convej-ance of the tears from the lacus lacryroarum into the sac. Epiphora, on the other hand, consists in a super- abundant secretion of tears, and is a disease of the secreting, not of the excreting, parts of the lachry- mal organs. (See W. M. M'Kenzic's valuable Essarj on the Diseases of the Lachrymal Organs, p. 47. 8vo. Lend. 1819 ; and Beer, Lehre von den Aupenkr.h. u.,andart. LaciirYiMai. Apparatus.) EPIPLOCELE. (From MttKoov, the omen- tum, and K^Ai7, a tumour.) A hernia, formed by a protrusion of the omentum. (See PIernia.) EPULIS. (From im, upon, and ol\a, the gums.) A small tubercule on the gums. It is sometimes cancerous. The best plan of cure is t" extirpate it with a knife.' ERETHISMUS. (From e>60/fw, to iiTitate.) The state of irritation attending the earl5'- stage of acute diseases. Mr. Pearson has described a state of the constitution produced by mercury acting on it as a poison. He calls it the mercurial erethismus, and mentions, that it is characterised by great depression of strength, anxiety about the prsecordia, irregular action of the heart, frequent sighing, trembling, a small, quick, sometimes in- termitting pulse, occasional vomiting, a pale con- tracted countenance, a sense of coldness : but the tongue is seldom furred, nor are the vital and natural functions much disturbed. In this state, any sudden exertion will sometimes prove fatal. Mr. Pearson advises, with a view of preventing the dangerous tendency of this affection, the immediate discontinuance of the use of mer- cury; and exposing the patient to a dry cool air. The incipient erethismus may often be averted by the camphor mixture and large doses of am- monia, if mercury be also left off. Sarsaparilla is also beneficial, when the stomach will bear it. {Pearson, On Lues Venerea, p. 166, &c. edit. 2.) ERYSIPELAS is a Greek word, derived, as some say, from ipveiv, to draw, and TreAas, vicinum, because of its tendency to draw neighbouring parts into the same state ; in other words, because of its tendency to spread. Others derive it from ipuBpos, red, and iriXos, livid ; or from ipvOpos, and neWa. [It may be defined to be a fever, attended with spreading inflammation of the skin, or of the skin and areolar tissue. It begins with shivering, and other symptoms of feverishness ; then come a spreading redness and swelling of the skin of the part which is the seat of inflammation. Vesications often follow ; and the disease, in its milder form, may produce no worse effects than loss of cuticle, and shedding of the hair. In severe cases, widely spread unhealthy exudation into thg areolar tissue ensues, with sloughing. Much confusion has arisen from the use of the term erythema ; which has been applied to desig- nate sometimes the mildest forms of erysipelas, sometimes mere redness of the skin from local causes. Cullen, for instance, said, "Wheji the external inflammation is an exanthema, and sj-mp- tomatical of an affection of the whole system, I shall then name the disease Erysipelas ; but when the disease is an affection of the skin alone, and very little of the whole system, or when the affection of the system is only symptomatical of the external inflammation, I shall give the disease the name of Erythema." {Ctdlcn's First Lines, vol. i. p. 296.) Yet Cullen really describes what is generally known as simple erysipelas under the term erythema. The fact is, that imder tho word Erythema (whose consequence in nosology would soon vanish if it were replaced by its English equivalent, red- ness,) are confounded many aftcctions which have no alliance with erysipelas, nor with each other. For instance, there is the erythema nodosum, a pecu- liar exudation into the areolar tissue of the shins and elbows, whose real alliance is with purpiu'a ; and tho erythema inlertrir/o, or chafing of infants when not kept clean ; and there are the varieties caused by sunburn, and by frost bite, and by rube- facient and irritating applications. The better plan will be to exclude absolutely from erysipelas all