475 CONJUNCTIVITIS. nn indefinite period. This condition has never been Bobserved in infants, even after the most severe ■ purulent ophthalmia. As may readily be imagined, the existence of even a thin vascular layer over the surface of the cornea very seriously interrupts vision; and the worst cases only allow perception of light and a dim outline of objects ; and it becomes an anxious question to what extent the brilliancy of the cornea can be restored by suitable treatment. In forming a judgment upon this point, what we have especially to notice is the direction of tlie vessels—whether they creep down from above only, or whether they encroach from all sides—as upon this circumstance depends the fact as to whether the vascular opacity is entirely due to the granular condition, or to some inherent vice in the conjunc- tiva and cornea, and in the general state of the system. If we can satisfy ourselves that the disease Is purely local, and due to the mechanical change of the conjunctiva, we are justified in giving a favourable opinion as to the result. Our treat- ment must be exclusively directed to the removal of the granular condition. If we can succeed in this, the subsequent vascularity, which is a consequence of it, spontaneously subsides, and leaves a clear cornea. The treatment that is most uniformly recom- mended, is the application of some powerful as- tringent or stimulant to the surface of the enlarged villi. This should be done by everting the upper lid and applying the remedy freely over the sur- face. The principal stimuli for this purpose are the solid nitrate of silver, or a strong solution ; the sulphate of copper, the acetate of lead, alum, zinc, &c. &c. In the selection of a stimulus attention must be paid to the condition of the'granulations, their size, amount of organisation, nervous sensi- bilit}', and the time they have existed. In the more recent cases, where they are small, round, vascular, and sensitive, the stimulus must be mild —as, for instance, a solution of the nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper, about ten grains to the ounce of distilled water ; in the large, pale, insensible forms, the solid nitrate of silver may be freely and Ifrequently applied. The sulphate of copper is far less irritating than the nitrate of silver ; and, ex- I cept in very indolent cases, produces a sufficient I effect. Whatever caustic or astringent is selected, ! it is desirable to limit its effect as much as possible ! to the part to which it is applied, and to protect the ' rest of the conjunctival surface. This is more par- 'i ticularly necessary when the nitrate of silver is I applied in substance. The best mode of effecting f this object, is to put a little glycerine into the eye previous to applying the caustic, and also to keep the eyelid everted for some little time after tlio application. Although caustics and powerful astringents are the only reliable means in tlieso cases, it is only when applied carefully to the part, li and at stated intervals, tli;it they are of service. ! In undertaking a case of this kind, it is important I that the patient should bo made aware that, under the most favourable circumstances, and with the most judicious management, the process of treat- ment must be tedious, extending over many months, and requiring great perseverance in the use of ! remedies. If the disease be limited to the upper half, or even two thirds of the cornea, and if the vessels can be all traced from above, a cure may be depended upon, provided the treatment be ' judiciously carried out. There is a modification of this disease, in which the vessels can be seen encroaching over the sur- face of the cornea from all sides, and converging towards the centre. This condition would seem to depend to some extent upon the state of the constitution, and upon a diseased condition of the cornea itself, and only to a partial degree on the mechanical and local cause. This morbid change is exceedingly intractable, and will re- main, after the surface of the conjunctiva is restored to a smooth state. In these cases, the surface of the cornea is more thickly and uniformly covered with a highly-organised false membrane, consequently vision is more extensively interfered with. Another more serious and fatal result of a continuance of this form of disease is a certain amount of softening of the corneal tissue, so that it no longer oifers the same amount of resistance, but yields to the pressure from within, so as to change its shape and increase its convexity—a state of things that seriously and permanently damages the sight, even after the transparency of the cornea shall have been restored. The manage- ment of this modification of vascular cornea is very difficult, and the result usually very unsatis- factory. If the villi are enlarged, the primary consideration is to restore a smooth surface to the palpebral conjunctiva ; if the cornea does not im- prove after this is accomplished, the cause will be found chiefly in the state of the constitution, and in some unfavourable sanitary conditions, as close, ill-drained and ill-ventilated dwellings, improper and insufficient food, &c. Tonics are useful, and sometimes a very mild but protracted mercurial course seems to be of advantage. This disease frequently occurs in females about the period of puberty, therefore attention must be especially directed to the due performance of menstruation. The thorough establishment of this function is often attended with a very marked amelioration of the symptoms. As regards local means, so .soon as the conjunctiva is smoothed down, no good results from the continuance of stimuli. When the surface of the conjunctiva is brought into a smooth condition, one ought to abstain from all further local stimuli, and trust chiefly to consti- tutional treatment. The only local treatment which is found advantageous in this stage is the formation of an issue in the temple, which should be kept up for some months. It appears to be peculiarly applicable to those affections of the con- junctiva and cornea, in which there is organised morbid deposit superadded to the original healthy tissue. Some few cases resist all means of relief. A permanent change of air, particularly to the sea-side, offers the best chance of improvement under this uuproniising state of things. Dr. Walker (Ohscrvations on Two Dtstiiict Varieties of Ophthalmia 2Wvalenf in the Army 77ie Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Ifill, vol. vii. p. 5) observe."!, when treating of pannus and granulations of the lids,—" Disap- pointed by every method hitlierto recommended, I endeavoured to m.akc the cj-o affected with the latter variety (a slow and insidious vascularity of the cornea) assume the inflammatory action of what has been called pm'ulont ophthalmia, and to this I applied the usual remedy, venesection. In several cases the practice has proved successful, not a single enlarged vessel remaining at the end' of a fortnight. How far it may answer the pur- pose intended I have not yet had sufficient evi-