855 HyEMORRHAGE. 3 I \ and all of them were firmly confined with a roller, nnd the arm kept as quiet as possible in a sling. They were taken oif after three days, and no heemorrliage ensued. When the palmar fascia is not freely cut, it is conceivable, that it might prevent compression from operating on the vessel; but the foregoing case shows, that a "wound of the superficial palmar arch is capable of healing, if the blood be completely prevented from getting out of the external wound by the proper application of compression. Were the outer wound free and open, it would be the safest practice to take up the ends of the vessel. Mr. Crosse, of Norwich, in more than one or two instances, has succeeded in tying the palmar arch when wounded, and would always first attempt it, going to another resource only when that had failed, or swelling and inflammation prevented it. He thinks it would be going a great length, to put a ligature on the brachial artery for a wounded palmar arch. (Op. et vol. cit.) Sometimes tying the ulnar artery has failed; but, under these cir- cumstances, instead of tying the brachial artery, if the state of the wound would not bear pressure, I should prefer the trial of moderate compression of the radial artery, by means of a graduated com- press, or the steel semicircle and screw, occasion- ally resorted to by Dupuytren, when he wished to check the flow of blood through any particular artery, without stopping the circulation in the limb. I feel confident that this plan would answer, when the ligature of the ulnar artery had not sufficiently commanded the bleeding. Besides compressing the wounded part of the artery, some surgeons also apply a longitudinal compress over the track of the vessel above the wound, with the view of weakening the flow of blood into it. Whatever good effect it may have in this way, is more than counterbalanced by the difficulty which it must create to the circulation in the arm. If the graduated compress be properly arranged, an effusion of blood cannot possibly hap- pen, and pressure along the course of the artery must, at all events, be unnecessary. After relax- ing the tourniquet, if no blood escape from the artery, the surgeon (supposing it to be the brachial artery wounded) should feel the pulse at the wrist, in order to ascertain that the compression em- ployed is not so powerful as entirely to impede the circulation in the fore-arm and hand. The arm is to be kept at rest in a sling, and in forty-eight hours, if no bleeding take place, there will be great reason to expect that the case will do well. In anotlier work, I have given an engraving and de- scription of an instrument, invented by Plonck, for making pressure on the wounded brachial artery, at the bend of the arm, without pressing upon the ■whole circumference of the limb, and consequently without stopping the circulation. No one, how- ever, would prefer compression when large arteries are injnicd, except in the kind of cases to whicli we have just now adverted, or in those in which the ■wounded vessel can be firmly compressed against a subjacent bone. Sometimes the compresses slip off, or the bandages become slack, and a fatal hiomor- rhage may arise; and a still greater risk is that of mortification from the constricted state of the limb. When the method is tried, the tourniquet should always be left loosely round the limb, ready to be tightened in an instant. Sometimes the external wound heals, while the opening in the artery re- mains unclosed, and a false aneurism is the con- sequence. Tourniquet. At the present day, the means for the temporary stoppage of the flow of blood through the arteries in operations, are reducible to two, viz. pressure, and, in a few instances, the preliminary application of a ligature on the trnnk of the vessels expected to bleed in a dangerous degree. Pressure is made . either with mechanical instruments or the hand. In amputations, M. Dupuytren rarely employed any other means but the hand of an intelligent assistant; and it was only in special cases that he had recourse to the ligature or mechanical pres- sure. The same rule is adopted by Mr. Listen in University College Hospital ; and I sometimes dispense with the tourniquet myself. Two con- ditions are necessary to render pressure efiectual, whether made with an instrument or the hand ; the superficial situation of the artery, and its position upon a bone, or some other part sufii- ciently unyielding to admit of the vessel being pressed against it. (See Dupuytren, Clin. Chir, t. iv. p. 377.) M. Dupuytren confirms what every experienced operator is well aware of, namelj', the fact of the flow of blood through the larger arteries admitting of being commanded by means of moderate pres- sure. But this nmst be made with precision, and perpendicularly to the surface, which serves as a point of resistance. The inclination of the surfaces of the bones on which the vessels lie, should there- fore be recollected. For example, that of the upper surface of the horizontal branch of the os pubis faces upwards and forwards, and that of the first rib upwards and slightly outwards. Conse- quently, in the groin, the pressure should be directed from above downwards, and from before backwards; and in the hollow, above the clavicle, from above downwards, and from without inwards. If the operation about to be performed is likelv to be long, or the artery is huge or rather deep,"M. Dupuytren recommends the assistant to pliice the fingers of his unemployed hand over those which compress the vessel, in order to second their action, and hinder them from being fatigued. But, before beginning the operation, the surgeon is always to assure hnnself of the exactness of the pressure. In some regions of the body, and in thin persons, the diastole and systole of the vessel are perfectly visible, and then the stoppage of tliem denotes that the pressure is well made. The totiil inter- ruption of the pulsations, as ascertained by the touch, will leave no doubt on this point. There are some amputations, in which every modification of pressure may be dispensed with, even though arteries of great size are concerned: such are cases in which the principal artery will be cut only in the final division of the parts, and in which an assistant, who can be relied upon, will let his fin- gers follow closely the knife, and seize hold of the Hap containing the artery, and compress this vessel just before the section of the Hap is completed. This method is practicable in amputations at the shoulder, and even in those of tlio hip. M. Du- puytren knew of only one case in which the pre- liminary ligature of the artery was absolutely necessary in amputation, viz. that in which the disorganisation of parts, and of the artery in par- ticular, is such, that a definitive ligature on the sur- face of the stump would in all probability fail. In