576 DISLOCATION, times of the one and sometimes of the otlier. The treatment requires to be modified accordingly. The inward displacement is easily corrected ; but the displacement forwards is likely to prove trouble- some. (See Malgaigne, loo. cit. p. 1015.)] 4. Dislocaiion of the tibia and fibula backwards, or of the foot'forwards.—Sir A. Cooper had no opportunity of observing a dislocation of the tibia from the astragalus backwards—a proof of the rarity of the accident. [Mr. Adams refers to a case which was under the care of Mr. Colles of Dublin {Cyclop, of Anal and Fhysiol. art. Ancle-joint, p. 162); another is related by Ne'Iaton {Elim. de Pathol. Chir. t .ii, p. 447) ; a third by Mr. Pirrie of Aberdeen (Prin- ciples of Surg. p. 337); and a fourth by Mr. R. W Smith (Dublin Joum. of Med. Science, May 1852, p. 465). M. Malgaigne notices another by Dela- motte, Traite de Chir. t. ii. 1771. Where the cause is mentioned, it lias always been a forced flexion of the foot upon the leg, in consequence of which the tibia slides backwards from the astragalus, and becomes placed upon the upper surface of the os calcis. Mr. R. W. Smith observes that this dis- location is necessarily incomplete, for the passage of the tibia backwards is interrupted by the tendo AchiUis, and the distance between the joint and the tendon is not sufficient to allow the articular surface of the tibia to clear the astragalus. In all the cases hitherto observed the fibula has not been fractured, but has been displaced backwards -with the tibia. In Mr. Smith's case, in which the accident dated from three months previously, the in- ternal malleolus had probably suffered some injury, for it was altered in form ; in that of Mr. Colles there was evidence of a fracture at the lower and posterior part of the tibia ; while M. Nelaton found a fracture of the anterior border of the same bone. The symptoms noticed by Mr, Smith, and which he considered to constitute the proofs of the nature of the injury, were :—the shortening of the leg by half an inch, the double approximation of the lower end of the tibia to the sole of the foot upon the one part, and to the anterior surface of the tendo AchiUis upon the other ; the effacing of the curve of that tendon and of the prominence of the heel ; the elongation of the anterior part of the dorsum of the foot; the exposure to the touch of the fi-ont of the upper surface of the astragalus, and the evidence of pressure upon the posterior tibial artery and nerve, derived from the coldness and numbness of the foot. That the injury which the fibula had sustained was a dislocation and not a fracture, was apparent from the approximation of the external malleolus to the posterior extremity of the OS calcis. In this case the reduction had been attempted shortly after the accident by power- ful extension, but without success. In the cases observed by Mr. Colles, Mr. Pirrie, and M. Ndlaton, the dislocation was also of some months' standing before they were consulted; and it was too late to attempt to alter the position of the parts. In all, permanent and serious lameness was the result. Reduction.—The most appropriate treatment would appear to be:—first, to flex the knee-joint, m order to relax the muscles, then to make exten- sion upon the foot, and to endeavour to move it backwards into its place under the tibia. Should this prove successful, the reduction might be main- tamed by placing the limb iu a M'Intyre's appa- ratus, but with the lieel and Undo AchiUis unsup- ported, for if the limb were allowed to rest upon these parts, the foot would probably again become displaced forwards from under the tibia.] 5. [Dislocation of iJte astragalus upwards be- tween tlie tibia and fibula.—This, which is a very rare accident, has been described by M. Ndlafon as a dislocation of the foot upwards. It miqht, as he observes, be also considered as a variety of the dislocation of the tibia inwards, in which the fibula, instead of being fractured, is separated from the lower extremity of the tibia, in such a manner as to allow the astragalus to ascend be- tween the two bones of the leg. This, however, is not consistent with a statement made by him previously, to the effect that dislocation of the as- tragalus upwards necessitates a fracture of the fibula as well as a separation of that bone from the tibia. The foot, he states, does not deviate from its natural position; the astragalus, seized between the tibia and fibula, cannot be moved in any direc- tion ; the inter-malleolar space is considerably en- larged; the prominences formed by the malleoli de- scend towards the sole of the foot and nearly touch the ground. (See Elim. de Pathol. Chir. t. ii, p. 474.) Such a case as this might be distinguished from a complete dislocation of the tibia inwards, with fracture of the fibula and ascent of the foot on the outer side, by observing that both malleoli are ap- proximated to the sole of the foot, and that there is no deformity of the fibula indicating the seat of fracture. If the fibula were fractured, the external malleolus would ascend with the foot, the external lateral ligaments remaining entire, although those connecting the tibia with the fibula would be torn. The descent of the external malleolus is evidence that the fibula is not fractured, but that the exter- nal lateral ligaments, as well as the tibio-fibular ligaments, have given way. Mr. Fergusson has recorded the following case, which appears to be a genuine example of the acci- dent under consideration, without fracture of either bone. The mode in which the injury was occa- sioned is not satisfactorily explained. The patient, a young man, a3t. 23, had met with a severe injury at the ancle, during a scuffle, and after he had fallen it was supposed that some one had trampled upon the injured part. The foot was twisted out- wards, so that the toes were directly out from the malleolus externus. The malleolus internus could be felt as distinctly under the skin, which was here on the stretch, as if on the skeleton, and so also could be the anterior margin of the articular sur- face of the tibia. The outer malleolus couid be distinctly felt, but somewhat lower on the foot tlian natural, and the distance between it and the internal malleolus was remarkable. The astraga- lus could not be very distinctly made out; but it seemed as if jammed between the ends of the two long bones. On extension being made, under chloroform, reduction was very easily eftected, and during, as also after the process, Mr. Fergusson was satisfied that the principal feature of the injury was a luxation of the foot upwards, between the two bones of the leg. The ligaments which bind these bones together had given waj', and allowed the astragalus to slip between. There was no fracture that could be perceived. A bandage was applied, and then a common side splint was put on.