HERNIA, 953 Symptoms op a Strangulated Hernia. According to Sir Astley Cooper, one of the earliest symptoms of a strangulated hernia is pain about the diaphragm, followed by continual eruc- tation. The patient is next troubled with vomiting and costiveness. He feels a great inclination to have stools, but cannot succeed in his attempts to expel the fseces. There is some pain in the swell- ing, and a great deal at the part where the stric- ture is situated. Afterwards the abdomen becomes considerably distended with air, such distension not arising from inflammation, but from the cause here mentioned, as is proved by pressure on the abdomen not giving at first any pain. The vomiting becomes more frequent, and fseculent matter is ejected from the stomach, into which it is brought by what is called the antiperistaltic action of the bowels. A clyster will sometimes bring away a portion of faeculent matter, but the quantity will be extremely small. While the abdomen is in this tense state, but unaccompanied with pain, and while there is frequent vomiting of the fceces, the pulse is hard, frequent, and very distinct; but, in the next stage of the symptoms, when the abdomen is not only tense, but painful on being touched, the pulse is extremely small and frequent. The vomiting and eructations con- tinue, and the patient is pale, and covered with a cold perspiration. The tumor becomes very tense, hard, and in general a little inflamed on the surface of the skin. With respect to the hiccough which now succeeds, and which has usually been considered as a sign of the presence of gangrene. Sir Astley Cooper declares that it is now known not to be so, patients having had it for many hours, and yet recovered after the operation. The truth of this observation was exemplified in two in- stances in wiiich I have had occasion to operate. Hiccough sometimes continues several days after the operation. If the protruded parts be not now returned by means of the operation or otherwise, " the tension of the belly, the restlessness, and fever having been considerably increased for a few hours, the patient suddenly becomes perfectly easy, the belly subsides, the pulse, from having been hard, full, and frequent, becomes low, languid, and generally interrupted, and the skin, especially that of the limbs, cold and moist; the eyes have now a languor and a glassiness, a lack-lustre not easily to be described; the tumor of the part disappears, and the skin covering it sometimes changes its natural colour for a livid hue; but whether it keeps or loses its colour, it has an em- physematous feel, a crepitus to the touch, which will easily be conceived by all who have attended to it, but is not so easy to convey ;m idea of by words; this crepitus is the too sure indicator of gangrenous mischief within. In this state, the gut either goes up spontaneously, or is returned with the smallest degree of pressure; a discharge is made by stool, and the patient is generally much pleased at the ease he finds; but this pleasure is of short duration, for the hiccough and the cold sweats continuing and increasing, with the addition of spasmodic rigors and subsultus tendinum, the tragedy soon finishes." ' Anatomy op Inguinal Hernia. This subject must necessarily precede the ac- count of the operation, which would otherwise 1 be unintelligible. It is chiefly in the anatomical information relative to hernia, and in the mode of operating, that modern surgeons have a decided superiority over their predecessors ; for, before Girabernat, Camper, Sir Astley Cooper, Hey, Lawrence, Scarpa, Hesselbach, Langenbeck, and Cloquet, published their several works on hernia, the anatomy of the disease was but imperfectly understood. Of all the eminent men who have rendered our knowledge of the anatomy of hernia more correct, none has equalled Sir Astley Cooper in the number and importance of original obser- vations. His description of the inguinal canal, the first accurate one ever given; his account of the fascia transversalis (a texture which had not been contemplated, with reference either to ami- tomy or disease, previous to his researches); his interesting observations on the muscularity of the internal ring; his description of the fascia propria of crural hernia; and an infinite number of patho- logical and practical facts, make Sir Astley Cooper the individual whose labours, more than those of any other surgeon, have contributed to the ad- vancement of this most important and difiicult subject. The tendinous fibres of the aponeui'osis of the external oblique muscle, as they run downwards and forwards towards the pubes, separate from each other so as to leave a triangular opening, called the external abdominal ring, which is usually more capacious in the male than the female subject. The upper and inner pillar (as it is termed) of this aperture is inserted into the symphysis of the pubes, and is the weakest of the two; the lower and outer one, which is the strongest, is chiefly a continuation of Pouparl's ligament {Hesselbach, Ueher den Ursprung, ^-c. der Leisten-und-ScJienkel- briiclie, p. 4), and is fixed into the tuberosity and crista {pectineal line) of the same bone. Some ten- dinous fibres cross the upper and outer angle of the ring {inter-columnar fibres), so as to diminish the triangular appearance of the whole aperture: these are particularly strong in old herniie. The anterior and thicker layer of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle joins the tendon of the external oblique; the posterior and thinner one joins that of the transversalis; but the lower portion of this tendon, together with the corresponding part of the transversalis, goes wholly in front of the rectus muscle. Thus, the inferior border of the obliquus iiitornus and transversalis, which originates from the upper half of Poupart's ligament, lies behind the outer pillar of tho abdominal ring. Sir A. Cooper first noticed that a thin fascia proceeds from the inner edge of Poupart's ligament, and spreads over the posterior surface of the transver- salis muscle. This fascia forms a partition between the peritoneum and the outer opening of the ab- dominal ring; and were it not for its existence inguinal herniaj would probably be much more frequent. In front of it are the aponeuroses of the internal oblique and transverse muscles. Hesselbach, who has named tho small smooth point, situated directly behind tho outer opening of the abdominal ring, its crural surface, distinctly states that it is formed by delicate fleshy and tendinous fibres of the internal oblique muscle [the fibres are tendinous in this position, not ten- dinous and fleshy] {Ueber den Ursprung, gfc. der Leislcn-und-SchcnkeJLruchc, p. 4); and that behind I them is the weakest part of what he names the