PREFACE. viii whether historical or strictly professional; to erase only that which by lapse of time had become obsolete, or which the accumulated ex- perience and the advance of the collateral sciences had shown to be at variance with the improved knowledge of the day. The addition of new matter has been restricted, as much as possible, to the space rendered available by the erasures, in order to keep the work within the compass of a dictionary of convenient reference. In many instances this has not been found possible, and a considerable extension of certain articles has been unavoidable. A few have been entirely re-written. New ones have also of necessity been added. Orthopaedic surgery— Ovariotomy—Excision of Joints—the treatment of Vesico- vaginal Fistula and of Ruptured Perinseum, &c.—have assumed the position of new branches of Surgery since the last edition of this Dic- tionary, and have consequently demanded much additional space. The result has been, that with every desire and every effort to exceed as little as possible the bulk of the last edition, the present—notwith- standing the space gained by the numerous erasures, which have been unsparingly had recourse to—will contain at least 500 additional pages of new matter. The reader will at once understand who is responsible for the revi- sion or authorship of any article by observing the presence or absence of a name at the end of the article. In the latter instance the Editor himself is answerable; in the former the writer whose name is at- tached. Throughout the work the new matter is distinguished from the original of Mr. Cooper by being enclosed in brackets; that which has been erased could not be indicated. The unavoidable increase in bulk of the present edition has induced the Publishers to divide the work into two volumes. The First is now presented to the professional public. The Editor, however imperfectly he may have thus far performed his task, has endeavoured, to the best of his abilities, to follow, hand passibus cequis, in the footsteps of Mr. Cooper; actuated by similar aspirations for the advancement of our noble and beneficent science, his aim has been to carry out the de- clared intentions of the author with the same independence of thought, the same devotion to truth wherever found, and to adopt the same spirit of fairness and impartiality in recording the discoveries and opinions of cotemporary surgeons. To the Second Volume, which will appear as speedily as possible, will be added an Appendix, in which will bo embodied the latest dis- coveries and improvements. This plan, which was adopted in former editions by the late author, is rendered absolutely necessary — espe- cially as regards the articles belonging to the earlier letters of tlie Alphabet—by the rapid progress of Surgical Science, and by the long period unavoidably occupied by a work of this magnitude in passing through the press.