CATARACT, 431 in the posterior cliamber, Scarpa thinks it by no means necessary for the patient to STibmit to another operation ; vision is tolerably perfect, and in time the small particles of opaque matter will spontaneously disappear. But when the secondary membranous cataract consists of a collection of opaqxie fragments of the capsule, accumulated so as either in a great degree or entirely to close the pupil ; or when the disease consists of the whole anterior half of the opaque capsule, neglected in a prior operation, and continuing adherent in its natural situation, it is indispensable to operate again ; for, although, in the first case, there may be good reason to hope that the collection of membranous fragments might, in time, disappear, yet it would be unjustifiable to detain the patient for weeks and months in a state of anxiety and blindness, when a safe and simple operation would restore him, in a very short space of time, to the enjoyment of this most useful of the senses. [Modern ingenuity has greatly improved upon the old mode of dealing with these secondary cataracts. It was customary to endeavour to re- move them out of the pupil by means of a needle, but from their great toughness and the elasticity of the surrounding media it was extremely difficult to make a satisfactory impression upon them. To obviate this difficulty, Mr. Wilde of Dublin in- vented a beautiful instrument called capsular scissors, by which shreds of capsule may be neatly severed. The same principle has been applied to forceps, so that these portions of membrane may be drawn out of the eye through small apertures, made either in the cornea or in the sclerotica. Mr. Bowman has introduced the use of two needles, by the simultaneous working of which, each fur- nishing the other with a point of I'esistance, the capsule may be torn open or membranous shreds divided, without drag on the neighbouring struc- tures. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xviii. 1853.) Dr. Isaac Hays of Philadelphia has invented a fine knife-needle for the division of the lens or capsule. {Amer. Jotirn. Med. Science, July 1855.)] No other topical application is generally requi- site, after the operation, but a small compress of fine linen upon each eye ; and the patient ought to be kept in a quiet, moderately darkened room. On the following morning, a dose of some mild purgative salt, such as the sulphate of soda, or magnesia, may usually be administered with ad- vantage. When the inflammation exceeds the ordinary bounds then the treatment applicable to iritis becomes proper. Beer remarks, that although, after extraction, very cautious trials of the sight are indispensable, they are by no means proper after depression or reclination ; for the action of the muscles of the eye, in the inspection of objects at various dis- tances, is very liable to make the opaque body rise again. Ilcnce, as soon as the pupil is clear. Beer recommends covering both eyes (oven when one only has been operated upon) with a plaster, and simple linen compress, which last is to be fastened on the forehead with a common bandage, The same experienced operator also enjoins per- fect quietude of the body and head for some days. The patient, he says, may either lie in bed, or sit in an arm-chair, as may be most agreeable, care being taken to avoid all sudden motions. The most proper food for the patient is such as is easily digested, not too nutritiou.s, and does not require much mastication. Everything must be avoided which has a tendency to excite inflamma-' tion in the eye. On the third or fourth day, the eye should be opened, and afterwards be merely protected by a green silk eye-screen, which should also be gradually dispensed with. The patient should be careful to do whatever is agree- able to the eye which has been operated upon, and as carefully avoid everything which irritates it or causes a disagreeable sensation in it, a difii- culty of opening the eyelids, or keeping them open, a discharge of tears, or a redness of the white of the eye, &c. Of the thrombus under the conjunctiva, some- times caused by the prick of the needle, and of the readily bleeding granulations which occasion- ally shoot up at the puncture, I need not here particularly speak. For relieving the obstinate vomiting sometimes excited by injury of the ciliary nerves or that of the retina. Beer recommends castor, musk, and opium, except when the eye is in a state of inflammation, in which circumstance antiphlogistic treatment is preferable. Such vomiting. Beer joins other writers in believing, is often produced by a firm lens being depressed too far, so as to injure the retina ; a case, how- ever, which is usually combined with a suddenly produced, complete or incomplete amaurosis. Here, imless the position of the lens can be changed by a sudden movement of the head, the above class of medicines will be of no use. This kind of amaurosis may also take place, without any vomiting, and, as Beer has had opportunities of remarking, it will not always subside, even though the cataract be made to rise again. The same amaurotic afl^ection may also result from the surgeon hurting the retina by pushing the needle too deeply against this membrane. According to Beer, the ophthalmy liable to happen in these cases as well as after extraction and keratonyxis, is alwaj-s most severe in the iris and neighbouring textures. {Von den Augenkr. b. ii. p. 3G1—3G3.) I cannot help remarking how judicious it is never to attempt too much at one time in any mode of couching. It happens in this, as in most other branches of operative surgery, that celerity is too often mistaken for skill: the operator should not only be slow and deliberate in achieving his purpose ; he should be taught to consider, that the repetition of couching maj', like the puncture of a vein, be safely and advantageously put in practice again and again ; and with far greater security than if, for the sake of appearing expe- ditious, or avoiding the temporary semblance of failure, a bolder use of the couching-needle should be made than tlie delicate structure of the eye warrants. We read, in Mr. Hey's Practical Ohsermlions on Surgery, that he couched one eye seven times, before perfect success was obtained- had he been less patient, and endeavoured to' effect by one or two rough applications of the instrument what he achieved by seven elTorts of a gentler description, it is highly probable that the structure of the eye would have been so im- paired, as well as the consequent ophthalmy so violent, as to have utterly prevented the restoration of sight. Beer thinks that, in general, depression and reclination are indicated only in cases in which extraction is absolutely impracticable or attended with too great difticulty, as will be better under-