HERNIA. 991 taraor. These two supposed lines will include an angular space, in which, and about mid-distance li om either, the first incision is to be made. This incision should commence just within the angle formed by the meeting of these lines, and be carried inwards and rather downwards, for the xtent of an inch or a little more; and should i\ ide the integuments and superlicial fascia over le femoral fossa. " For the second part of the operation, the fore- linger of the left hand (if the hernial tumor is on the right thigh, and vice versa) is to be passed through this wound, upwards and outwards, along and close to the side of the hernial tumor, to its neck. Should any of the deep laminae of the perficial fascia which occupy the femoral fossa istruct its passage these must be divided. "The blunt point of a bistoury cache, guided by the tip of the finger still in the wound, is to be passed through the cribriform fascia (one of the gheath-like apertures in which it will readily enter), and the delicate vaginal sheath which alone intervenes between it and the crural canal. It is now to be directed upward, through the canal to the ring, where it usually meets with re- sistance from the seat of stricture. By the least amount of force, and with the aid of a little gentle I orapression of the inner side of the tumor by the finger, the point of the bistoury may be insinu- ated between the sac, and the pubic margin of the ring: the edge of the knife is then to be turned towards the pubes, and, by projecting the blade, the seat of stricture in that direction may be effec- tively divided. Should the surgeon, however, be disposed to direct his incision forwards, it may be done either before or after the incision of Gimber- nat's ligament with equal facility. It will be obvious from a reference to the anatomical relations of the parts, that in its course from the femoral fossa through the cribriform fascia, crural canal and ring, the knife will pass successively behind the falciform process, the edge of the lower orifice of the canal, Pley's ligament, and the fibres of the inguinal ligament of Hesselbach; and thus be made to command whichever may happen to be the particular seat of stricture. By taking care not to keep the knife too close to the side of the hernial tumor, after its point has passed the cribri- form fascia, its point would glide between the sheath and the deep layer of tho iliac fascia lata; and in this way it would pass between the ring and the last portion of Iley's and Gimbernat's ligaments, and thus a division of these structures might bo effected from tho outside of the sheath or canal. " If, after the division of the ring and parts on its pubic and front sides, the hernial tumor is not to be replaced without the employment of force, the stricture cannot have been dilated ; and the surgeon would 'then have to contemplate the possibility of its being situated in the fibres of the septum cruralo. The still constricted neck of the sac would in that case bo felt, and it would be for the surgeon to get his knife cautiously behind the constricting fibres. This could be most easily done by a knife which has a beak flattened in tlie direc- tion transverse to the edge,—by gently pressing the side of the tumor outwards, immediately below the seat of constriction, so as to gain room for its introduction. " Should tliQ seat of stricture bo in the margins of one of the apertures of the cribriform fascia, which would in all probability be discovered at an early period of the operation, the means for dila- ting it would be analagous to those which have just been detailed. " If, after the division of these various textures external to the sac, the hernial tumor should still remain constricted, the external wound would have to be enlarged, and the seat of stricture looked for either in the neck of the sac, or within the sac and amongst its contents. " The operation just detailed is most^simple and easy of execution; requires but few, and those small incisions; leaves the hernial tumor and its diseased coverings untouched; permits, if neces- sary, the immediate use of a truss; and in an otherwise healthy subject requires but a few days for the perfect recovery of the patient."] Of late years, a fact of considerable interest has been ascertained in relation to femoral hernia ; viz. that the constriction of the bowel by the small- ness of the aperture and the sharp edge of Pou- part's ligament {Gimbernat^s ligament) is so great, that either a permanent contraction of the part, ulceration of the internal and muscular coats, or even that of the serous coat also may occur, followed by fatal extravasation, after the reduction of the hernia by the operation. {Chevalier, in Med. CJiir. Trans, vol. iv. p. 324 ; Bi-escliet, op. cit. obs. 2 ; Laivrence, p. 442, ed. 4.) Hence the latter gen- tleman is an advocate for gently drawing out the bowel, after liberating it from stricture: if no reason be found to apprehend perforation of the tube, he advises its reduction; but, in the opposite case, he directs it to be left out of the abdomen, rather than that the patient should be exposed to the danger of effusion into the abdomen (p. 444). [Mr. Adams describes an interesting case of femo- ral hernia in a female forty-five years of age, which had assumed an imusual position, and which could not be distinguished by examination of the femoral region. The symptoms of strangulation, however, having become urgent, he determined to explore the femoral region by operative proce- dure. He found a hernial sac containing omen- tum, and about an inch and a luilf of small intestine in a gangrenous state. The woman died on the fourtli day after the operation. On the post-mortem examination it was found that tho hernia had left the abdomen by tho femoral ring, that i t had passed through an opening in the fascia covering the poctineus muscle, and that a few fibres belonging to tho inner edge of this muscle had covered the hernial sac, and were divided during the operation. Mr. Adams drew the fol- lowing inferences with respect to this case- Ist that the hernia was of the femoral species- 2ndlv' that tho descent had not taken place in the sheath of the femoral vessels; .Srdly, that it had passed bohmd this sheath, and had made its way behind and internal to tho femoral vein, through some unusual opening in the pectineal portion of the fascia lata; 4tlily, that that part of the pectiiieus muscle on which the hernia lay was de- prived of its immediate fascial investment, and that tho innermost fasciculus formed a strong fleshy column over the hernial sac, beneath the pectineal^ portion of the fascia which covered it. (See Mcd.-Chir. Trans, vol. xliii. 1860 p. 27.) ' Another case of this rare variety of femoral