in the ulceration, by wliich means it is removed; but this does not frequently happen. [If the urctlira gives way rapidly, the urine readil}' gets into the loose cellular textures of the scrotum and penis, and it may diftuse itsulf through- out tliem, producing violent and destructive in- flammation; a condition known as Extravasa- tion OP Urine.] The presence of the urine pre- vents the adhesive inflammation from taking place; it becomes the cause of suppuration wherever it is dilTused, and the irritation is often so great tiiat it produces mortification, first in all tlie cellular tissue, and afterwards in several parts of the skin; all of which, if the patient live, slough away, making a free communication between the urethra and external siu'face, and producing what are tetmed fistiilce in perincBo, thougii it is plain enough to every surgeon who knows the correct meaning of the word fistula, that a recent opening, produced in the perinreum by ulceration or sloughing, ought not to be called a fistula immediately it is formed, and, at least, not until it has acquired some of the characters specified in my explanation of the term fijsiula. A fistula in peiringeo, then, is the result of an abscess in the perinEeum, communicating with the urethra at one extremity, and opening externally at the other. " The whole or part of the urine flows through the fistula, whenever the patient makes water; the constant irritation of the urine causes the sides of the fistula to become hard and callous; and, at last, a sort of button-like pro- jection, with the orifice of the fistula in the centre, is discovered in the perin£eum. The fistula differs in length and size, and the opening into the ure- thra differs in size also. Tliere is sometimes a single fistula, sometimes there are several; and, accordingly as the fistula is larger or smaller, accordingly as there are more or less sinuses, com- municating with the urethra, so does a larger or smaller quantity of urine escape through tliis un- natural passage whenever the patient makes water. Sometimes the urine thus voided amounts to only a few drops, sometimes it comes away in a small stream, and sometimes it comes away in so large a quantity, that that which is voided by the peri- nseum is greater than what is voided in the natural way." {Sir D. Brmiie, m Lond. Med. Gax. vol. for 183.5—36, p. 4fJC.) I have seen a few examples in which all the urine was discharged through the fistula. In the King's Bench there was a man, about four years ago, who had been passing the •whole of his urine through a fistula in the pcrina;um for fourteen years ; and tiic anterior portion of the urethra seemed to be obliterated. Although a fistula in pcrina;o is productive of much distress, inasmuch as tlie flow of urine in this direction wots the patient's dress, irritates tiie integ- ument.s, and sometimes the urine causes a good deal of pain as it is running out, tiie fistula, as Sir Benjamin Brodie has well observed, is not an evil unmixed with good. If a man has a stricture, it saves him from the ill consequences of a retenticni of urine. A spasm affects the stricture and ho cannot make water through tiie natural passage ; but tlie fistula being formed, the urine escapes from it, and thus the return of retention of urine, and the 511 consequences of over-distension of the bladder, are prevented. When the disease is the consequence of gonor- rha-a, there is generally only a single abscess; but. FISTULA IN PERIN^O. 676 when it is connected with a stricture, there may be many abscesses formed in succession. Thus, a patient, with a stricture of long standing, may have fistulaj produced in various directions, and termi- nating in the perinasum, the middle of the scrotum, or even in the groin, the nates, or the rectum. When the matter and urine have been freely dis- charged through one opening, a fresh abscess is not often formed ; but, in the opposite case, several abscesses are liable to follow. {lb.} In many cases the matter is putrid and offen- sive, in consequence of the pernicious effects of the urine, and tlie admixture of it and dead cellular tissue with the pus which is produced. Sir Benja- min Brodie is of opinion that the matter may even act as a poison on the system ; and, on this prin- ciple, he partly explains the repeated shiverings during the formation of the abscess, the dry brown tongue, hot skin, frequent pulse, and other typhoid symptoms. According to Mr. Hunter, when ulceration takes place further back than the portion of the urethra between the glans penis and membranous part of the canal, the abscess is generally more circumscribed. A fistula in perinteo, and extravasation of urine, producing gangrene, are both connected with ulceration of the urethra; but, as Sir Benjamin Brodie reniaiks, the ulceration occurs under dif- ferent circumstances. " If the patient be making water in a small stream, and a little ulcer forms behind the stricture, the greater part of the urine flows out by the natural passage, and it is not pro- bable that more than a few drops will dribble into the cellular membrane, through the ulcerated orifice. But if the patient has complete retention of urine, if the stricture be so contracted that not a drop of "water can pass through it, and, if then the urethra ulcerates behind the stricture—the next time the patient tries to make water, he strains with the bladder and abdominal muscles, the urine cannot pass by the natural passage, and it is driven by the muscles, as by a syringe, into the cellular membrane of the perinteum first, and into that of the scrotum, penis, and nates afterwards, and a great deal of urine is extravasated. In the one case, it dribbles into the cellular membiane; in the other, it is driven into it; and hence sloughing mider certain circumstances, and an abscess under others." [Sir B. Brodie, in London Med. Gax vol. for 1835—36, p. 4!!7.) [It is quite certain that abscess sometimes oc- curs without any primary lesion of the uretiiral walls, and this being opened in the periuieum, gives exit to no urine at first. After a lew days, however,a comuuinication forms between the ca\*ity of the abscess and the urethra, and a fistula results. This is analogdus to wliat takes place in ischio-rcctal abscess bordering on the rectum, and gives rise to fislnia ill uno.] Extravasated urine sometimes insinuates itself into the corpus spongiosum uretlutc, and is innne- diately diffused through the wlioie, even to the glans penis, so as to produce a mortification of all those ]iarts. A fatal instance of this kind is repfu'ted by Sir C. Bell. {Sunjivcd Obs. vol i p. !)6.) Although the ulceration of tlio urethra be the ])erina3um, the urine generally passes forwards into the scrotmn, which contains the loosest cellular tissue in the body; and there is always a hardness, extending along the perinteum x X 2 in easily