ANEURISM caused by a solution of continuity, or rupture of the proper coats of the artery, with effusion of blood into the surrounding cellular substance; which solution of continuity is occasioned some- times by a wound, a steatomatous, earthy dege- neration, a corroding ulcer, or a rupture of the proper coats of the artery, I mean the internal and muscular, without the concurrence of a pre- ternatural dilatation of these coats being essential to the formation of this disease ; and, therefore, that every aneurism, whether it be internal or ex- ternal, circumscribed or diffused, is always formed by effusion." (0« Aneurism ; transl. by Wishart, Pref ) According to Scarpa, it is an error to suppose that the aneurism at the curvature or in the runk of the aorta, produced by a violervt and sudden exertion of \L whole body, or of the heart n the continuity of the proper coats remains unin- terrupted, the circulation of the blood is not at all, or not so sensibly changed, we shal be obliged to allow, that aneurism differs essentially from one kind of dilatation of an artery. Some additional remarks on this topic, more recently published by Scarpa, will be presently considered. , , • ^.,„a By dissections of arteries, both m the sound and morbid state, Scarpa endeavours to demon-, slrate what share the proper and constituent coats of the artery have in the formation of the aneii- rismal sac, and what belongs to the cellular co- vering, and other adventitious membranes sur- rounding the artery. The covering of an artery is merely an adventi- tious sheath, which the vessel receives in common with the parts in the vicinity of which it runs. Un ^ ^nfiivoi citimtinn. exertion of the whole body, or o^.^^e lieart in ^^^^^^J ^ i/Us natural situation, particular, and preceded by a -gen'^if TllZr^^^ L cut vessel retires and conceals narticuiar, aiiu pici-cu--" —o- ., of a certain portion of this artery, or a morbid weakness of its coats, ought always to be considered as a tumor formed by the distention or dilatation of the proper coats of the artery itself, that is, o its internal and fibrous coats. Scarpa considers it quite demonstrable, that such aneurisms are pro- duced by a corrosion and rupture of these tunics and, consequently, by the effusion of arterial blood under the cellular sheath, or other membrane, covering the vessel. If ever there be a certain degree of preceding dilatation, it is not essential to constitute the disease, for it is not a constant occurrence ; most aneurisms are unpreceded by it, and in those rare cases in which an aneurism is prec'eded and accompanied by a certain degree of dilatation of the whole diameter of the curvature of the aorta, there is an evident difference between an artery simply enlarged in diameter, and the pouch which forms an aneurismal sac. Careful dissections, s.ys Scarpa, will prove that the aorta contributes nothing to the formation of the aneurismal sac, and that this is merely the cellular membrane, which, in the ^^"i f^^^' covered the artery, or that soft cellular sheath which the artery received in common with the neighbouring parts. This ,s raised by th blood into the form of a tumor, and is covered, m com- mon with the artery, by a smooth membrane. This eminent professor does not deny that, from congenital relaxation, the proper coats of the aor a mal 0 casionally yield and become disposed to TpU but he will uot admit that dilatation ofTs'artery precedes and --mpanies a 1 its aneurisms, or that its proper coats ever yield so much to distention as to form the aneurismal sac. The root of an aneurisni of the aorta never includes the ivhoh circumference of the artery; but tie aneurismal sac arises from one side of it in tUe form of an appendix, or tuberosity. On the con- trary, the dilatation of the artery ahuays extends to its whole circumference, and, therefore, differs es- sentially from aneurism. Thus he urges, that there is a remarkable difference between a dilated and an aneurismal artery, although these two affections are sometimes found combined together, especially at the origin of the aorta. If we also consider that the dilatation of an artery may exist witliout ' organic affection, the blood being always in the cavity of the vessel ; that, in an artery so affected, fhpre is never collected any grumous blood, or 1 „„ 1.,vprs • that the dilatation never forms r iumor orcoi'isklerable bulk ; and that, while cutting an aiici.Y , , the segment of the cut vessel retires and conceals itself in this sheath. This cellular covering is most evident round the curvature and trunk of the aorta, the carotid, mesenteric, and renal arteries ; it is less dense round the trunks of the brachial, femoral, and popliteal arteries. The pleura lies over the cellular sheath of the arch of the aorta, and over that of :trthoracic aorta ; while that of tbe abdo„.„a ,orta is covered by the peritoneum. Both these smooth membranes adhere to, and surround, two thirds of the circumference of the vessel, ihe great arteries of the extremities are not covered, n addition to the cellular substance, by any smooth membrane of this sort, but by a cellukir sheath which is demonstrably distinct from the adipous membrane, and serves to enclose the vessels, and connect them with the contiguous parts. When air, or any other fluid, is injected by a small hole, made aAificially between tlj^e eel u a covering and the subjacent muscular coat ot tlie rLr s'tbe iujected m^atter elevates into a tu- the cellular membrane, which closely embraces the m-tery, without properly d-troying its eel s which it distends in a remarkable "ja"ner hen melted wax is injected, and pushed f e the cellular Sheath of the artery is no only raised over the vessel, like a ^"--'J;';^ internal cells of that covering are also ''^ceiatett i on xa nining afterwards the capsule of the artifickl tumor, it appears as if it were formed of veiT layers,' rou&r irregular nUerna^^^ smooth and polished external y. Tli« s«™f happens when any injection is P"f«-i,;^ ; y3 force into an artery as to n.pU.re the m rna and mn-=ciilar coats at some point of their circura J r pmr d, the muscular one also gives way ; but le external cellular sheath, being of " ^F" Wcd texture, and the thin l-l"" " ^t e nomeim may bo observed, when t >« " of the aorta becomes so •^'^.'^i'^" " j"]" h tm-ed by the repeated J'^^ b o"d -m ^ ^^^^ In this circumstance, the blooa, mn