3 D 3 FUNGUS Hi nerve is split into two or more pieces, the inter- spaces being filled up with the morbid growth. ( irardrop.) Nay, as Mr. Travers has stated, the optic ganglion, tractus opticus, and thalamus, have been repeatedly found diseased, and the surround- ing adipose substance in the orbit affected to a con- siderable extent in places also where there was no direct communication with the diseased contents of the globe. {Si/7iopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 221.) Even the brain has been observed to share in the disease, sometimes dai'k-red spots ap- pearing on the dura mater; sometimes small spots, containing a fluid like cream, being found between the pia mater and tunica arachnoides. Mr. Travers has a preparation, exhibiting a genuine example of the disease affecting the anterior right lobe of the cerebrum, and protruding the eye from its socket, while the eye itself was perfectly free from disease. (Op. cit. p. 223.) When the lymphatic glands at the angle of the jaw are enlarged, as they fre- quently are, they are also foimd converted into a kind of medullary matter, similar to that which composes the diseased mass in the eyeball. When the skin bursts over a diseased absorbent gland, a sloughy ulcer is produced ; but no fungus is emitted, unless the affection of the gland with fungus haematodes be primary. In University College Hospital, a poor Irishman was under my care in the autumn of 1836, who had a large medullary tumor, covering all the submaxillary region, and which probably at first had been merely an absorbent gland. In this case, after ulceration of the skin, protrusion of the medul- lary substance, and sloughing of it, a tliin fetid discharge, occasional hemorrhage, and extreme emaciation and weakness, preceded the patient's death. Fungus hferaatodes of the eye was formerly not discriminated from scirrhous cancer. We learn from Bichat, that more than one third of the pa- tients on whom Desault operated for supposed car- cinoma of the eye were under twelve years of age. Twenty out of twenty-four cases of fungus ha;ma- todes of the eye with which Mr. Wardrop has been acquainted, happened to children under twelve years of age. Now, as scirrhous cancer is rather a disease of aged than young persons, and we find, from Mr. Wardrop, that fungus hromatodes of the eye mostly affects persons under twelve years of age, it is tolerably certain that most of Desault's cases, reported to be cancers of the eye, were in fact instances of the terrible disease now engaging our consideration. It is observed by Dr. Mackenzie, that the greatest number of casts lias been observed in children from two to four years of age. Some- times the disease occurs a few months after birth. In one instance, he saw it in an infant only nine weeks old, and the mother had miticed it six weeks earlier, so that the disease was probably congenital. On the other hand, it has been known to attack adults, or even persons of advanced age. (See Mackenzie on Dis. of the Eye, p. d'.Vi, ed. 2.) An- other experienced gentleman in this department of surgery, states, however, that he has never yet seen .a perfect exami)le of finigiis hrcmatodcs of the eye in an individual more than five years old. {li. Middlemore on Dis. of the JCye, vol. ii. p. SOU.) According to Mr. Travers, the only parts of the eye .and its appendages subject to be primarily at- tacked liy hard cancer, are the lachrymal gland, con- junctiva, and eyelids; while the evidence of )nany EMATODES. 773 cases has assured him that fungus hsematodes may originate in any texture of the eye, with the excep- tion of the lens and cornea. {Synopsis, S^-c. p. 216, 222, and 421.) This account, however, differs from that delivered by Mr. Wardrop and Pro- fessor Scarpa, who describe the disease as first commencing in the retina, and particularly at the point where the optic nerve enters the eye. " For (says the latter author), on the first appearance of the yellowish or greenish spot, the retina on exa- mination is found to be entirely deficient, or, in other words, to have degenerated into the malignant fungus. It is also found that the choroid mem- brane, while the fungus hsematodes is in its inci- pient state, does not appear to have suffered any remarkable alteration in its texture, and tliat it is only at a more advanced period of the disease that this membrane becomes thickened, and separated from its connection with the sclerotica. The choroid membrane, even in the most advanced stage of the disorder, preserves, more than all others, its natural texture." {On the Principal Diseases of the Eye, p. 507, ed. 2.) Dr. Mac- kenzie has observed, that the sclerotica appears to suffer less than any other part of the eye, and that in every case where the disease affected the eyeball, " we were ignorant of its existence before either the optic nerve, or retina, was changed." Mr. Middlemore also declares his be- lief, that the disease begins either in the retina or optic nerve. {On Diseases of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 402.) The lachrymal gland is sometimes absorbed ; in other instances, projected from the orbit; but, according to Mr. Middleniore's experience, it does become affected with fungus hsematodes. (Vol. cit. p. 407.) In cases of fungus hsematodes the sight of young subjects is generally destroyed before the at- tention of parents is excited to the distemper. Fre- quently, however, a blow, followed by ophthalmia, precedes the growth of the diseased mass. When no external violence has occurred, the first sym- ptom is a trivial fulness of the vessels of the con- junctiva, the iris becoming, at the same time, e.K- tremely vascular, and altered in colour, and the pupil dilated and immoveable. There is seldom much complaint made of pain: but the cliild is sometimes observed to be languid and feverish. In adults, fungus hicmatodes of the eye generally comes on without any apparent cause, though sometimes in consequence of a blow. At first the tunica conjunctiva is slightly reddened, and vision indistinct. The redness and obscurity of sight in- crease slowly, and an agonising nocturnal head- ache is experienced ; the eye bursts, and the humours are discharged. The time of the greatest pain is at the period when the eyeball is greatly distended by the diseased mass, and previously to the ruplure of the cornea. This is the time when convulsions are disjjosed to occur. (See J{. Middlemore, On Diseases of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 3!).5.) With regard to the cure of fungus luunui- todes of the eye, the only chance of effecting this desirable object depends upon the early exlir- pati(m of the diseased organ. It must be acknow- ledged, however, that most of the operations in which the morbid eye has been removed, have hilh(!rto ])fovcd nnsuccessfiil, owing to a roiur- roncc of the disease. The reason of such ill