1072 HYPEl circumstancea may prove transient, and be followed by no ulterior lesion, or it may constitute the first stage of the most obstinate or fatal disease or com- plication of disease. Parts which have once been affected are more liable to be affected again, and hyperjeraias, whether active or passive, are liable to frequent recurrence. Their recurrence may be- come habitual, as in the brain or its membranes, producing habitual headaches; or periodic, as in the hypersemias incidental to the paroxysms of fever, or in those occurring with hcemorrhage, as in the mucous surfaces of the chest vicariously to the menstrual or htemorrhoidal flux. The exciting causes of hypera5mia are extremely numerous. The most obvious are,—Operations and injuries of all kinds; the subjection of the body, or any part of it, to sudden violent changes of tempera- ture, or to the continual impression of cold, or exces- sive heat; excessive moisture or dryness of the atmo- sphere, or changes in its pressure or electric condi- tion, or of the electric tension of the body; exces- sive fatigue from violent or continuous exertion, or sedentary occupations and want of exercise; ex- cessive, defective and unwholesome ingesta, solid or fluid; sleep, prolonged or deficient; violent men- tal exertions; venereal excesses and irregularities; the suppression of the secretions and excretions; the direct action of numerous general and special stimulants, and also of various narcotics and seda- tives; the violent physiological action of organs, as of the heart, lungs, or uterus; ligatures; con- strained postures; the pressure of tumors, aneur- isms and foreign substances, and diseased organs. Every impulse which excites or diminishes the ac- tion of the heart, as excess or deficiency of blood, anxiety, the moral emotions, and the exciting and depressing passions; also every influence which so modiiies the constitution of the blood as to disturb the physiological relations between the liquor san- guinis and the various tissues, or the molecular actions and interchange of materials between the blood and blastemata; and especially hyperinosis, or inflammation of the blood, or poisons in that fluid; any influence which produces atony or atro- phy of the vessels of a part may also become an exciting cause. Thus, it will appear that the cus- toms and occupations of civilised life tend to pro- duce this pathological lesion, and not only the ex- ternal surface, but the vital organs, as the brain, the spinal cord, the lungs, and the liver, are con- tinually subjected to the causes of hypersemia. The symptoms of hypera;mia in external parts are sufficiently apparent. There is distention of the capillaries and small vessels, which can be emptied by pressure, but soon fill again. The colour of the part is augmented, and the tint varies from a bright scarlet to a deep red, violet, purple, or chocolate, ac- cording to the nature of the hypertemia and the con- dition of the blood. Distended vessels, otherwise in- visible to the naked eye, become obvious, and may pervade the part uniformly or in irregular patches. A bright scarlet colour is indicative of excess of arterial blood, the circulation remaining free; and a dark venous colour, of retardation or stasis. When the blood itself is dark, as in cyanosis or asphyxia, or when inspissated, as in cholera, the liyperajmias produced are dark; as also for the most part are those occurring in typhoid fever, and as the result of poisons. When numerous vessels are involved, and espcciallv when effu- sion of any kind takes place, there is swelling. Active hyperajmia produces pain of a dull aching character, and tenderness or acute pain on pres- sure, and heightens the temperature of the part; but in passive hyperiemia there is not necessarily pain, increased heat, or swelling. The blood- vessels of the conjunctiva and sclerotica are brigiit scarlet in active, but distended, tortuous, almcst varicose, and of a brown or purplish tint in pas- sive hypersemia. Hyperasraia is so frequent an occurrence in tlie practice of surgery, and its consequences are so serious and even often fatal, that its production cannot be too closely studied. In the cellu- lar tissue it leads to inflammation and abscess. When produced by varicose veins it is often the cause of hypertrophy of the lower limbs. In the mucous membranes active hyperfemia results from direct irritation, from morbid conditions of the blood, or from the existence of materials in tliis fluid having some special relation to those com- posing the membrane, or to the molecular changes which occur in the performance of the functions of particular parts; and passive hypersemia occurs as a consequence of atrophy, adynamia, and debility, in exhausted and poisoned states of the blood. It may be produced, mechanically, by diseases of the heart, lungs, or liver, in large portions of the re- spiratory or intestinal mucous membrane, and lead to chronic inflammation and ulceration. In hernias strangulation produces hypersemia of the portion of intestine constricted. Hypersemia of the cheeks, lips, and eyes, often inducing ccchymosis, as ex- hibited in the conjunctiva, is produced by pro- longed expiration in whooping-cough, diminishing the capacity of the chest, or in running hard. Temporary cerebral hypersemia occurs in the same way. Hyperajmia of the lungs results from ob- structive valvular disease of the left heart, or obstruction of the pulmonary veins from any cause. The pressure of aneurisms, indurated glands, and various tumors, or diseases of the lungs, obstruct- ing the return of blood from the brain, may pro- duce hypercemia of this organ generally, or of some portion of it or of its membranes. Obstruc- tion of the right heart, or causes interfering with the healthy action of the lungs, as vesicular em- ph)'sema, and the various causes of asphj-xia, produce hypersemia of the portal^system and of the liver; and diseases of the liver may lead to hy- persemia of any part of the capillary s3'stem be- yond the vena portse. The evacuation of the contents of abscesses and cysts, if unaccompanied with pressure, produces hyperajmia of their walls. Partial varicose dilatation of minute venous trunks is attended with diminution of the current of blood, aud when in this state, obstruction of the ves- sels, by coagulated blood, pus corpuscles, tubercle, or cancer cells, are so many mechanical causes of hyperajmia. It is also often propagated through the nervous system indirectly, as where pressure of the corpus striatum, from extravasation or other causes, with paralysis of the muscles of voluntary motion, leads to hyperajmia of the limb on the opposite side. The existence of hyperajmia in internal parts, and its nature, are often not easily determined. When it occurs to any considerable extent in vital organs it disturbs their functions; but here it is often very diflicult to draw the line between the phenomena of simple hyperajmia and those of in- flammation or of serous or sanguineous effusion. In