CICATRIX. tion of the means employed during the healing of cicatrices, to prevent those deformities or impair- ments of function produced by the process of contrac- tion which follows the healing process ; a process more fully described under Cicatrisation. It only remains now to point out the means of repair- ing, or removing, those ill effects in cases where they have occurred.] Of the Means for correcting the Deformities, and relieving the Impairment of Functions arising froin tlie unfavourable Cicatrisation of Burns. These deformities consist of inequalities, fleshy bands, frsena, adhesions, depressions, a puckering up of the parts, and discolourations or stains of the skin. With respect to the marbled or mottled disco- lorations left as consequences of exposure to mo- derate degrees of heat, the treatment recommended by Diipuytren consists in removing the exciting cause, and using astringent lotions, particularly those of the acetate of lead. He acknowledges, at the same time, that the plan is generally unavailing, and suspects that it would prove more successful if combined with methodical compression. The slow and prolonged action of caloric here adverted to he found to be not unfrequently the cause of varices. The following are some examples of the various deformities which Dupuytren had known to follow burns. In some patients all the integuments at the base of the skull, and with them the ears and ej^ebrows, were strongly drawn upwards by a cica- trix which had contracted itself towards the top of the head. In others, the eyebrow and upper eyelid were drawn up and rendered immovalsle by a cicatrix on the forehead. In one, the eyelids were everted, with scars on their fore part or at the base of the orbit. In another, the commissures of the eyelids were drawn outwards or inwards by cicatrices on the temples or the root of the nose ; or the ala of the nose was pulled upwards by a cica- trix above it, and the nostril obliterated. In others, again, the commissure of the lips was drawn upwards, outwards, or downwards, by cicatrices on various parts of the cheek ; or the upper lip was united to the septum of the nose ; or the lower one to the chin, so as to be incapable of preventing the escape of the saliva. In others, the ears adhered to the temples, and the meatus was contracted or obstructed ; or the chin, with its prominence effaced, was fixed to the front of the neck, or upper part of the chest; or the skin of the neck adhered to tlie thyroid cartilage, or hyoid bone, whence a difficulty of swallowing, and an incurable enroue- mcnt. In other instances the shoulder was drawn upwards, and the head to one side, by a cicatrix on the lateral part of the neck. In some girls, in consequence of the horrible mutilation of the breast, the mammary glands could not be de- veloped, or serve for the secretion of milk. In other cases seen by Dupuytren, the trunk was bent forwards, by bands extending from the front of the chest to the abdomen ; or the shoulder was depressed towards the hip, and thus pulled up- wards by a cicatrix on the side of the trunk ; or the elbow was fixed close to the side by a cicatrix in the axilla, resembling a kind of fin, when an attempt was made to lift the humerus from tiu; sulo : or the forearm was held in the bent position ]>y the effects of a cicatrix situated on the front of It or the upper arm. In other instances the wrist was bent or extended, or the fingers simi- larly affected were all united, and blended toge- ther ju one mass, covered by the cicatrix Du- puytren had seen the penis either fixed to the linea alba by a cicatrix which represented a sort of fold like what prevails in quadrupeds ; or else drawn to one side and adherent to the scrotum, which had grown to the thighs. In one case the thigh was fixed in the bent posture by a cicatrix in tiie groin, which cicatrix, though scarcely apparent when the limb was quiet, was converted into a very prominent band by the least movement of extension. Dupuytren had known the abdominal ring so weakened by a cicatrix in front of it, that a hernia took place, attended with the peculiarity that the cicatrix formed such a projection when the limb was extended, that it prevented the pa- tient from keeping up the bowels with a truss, until it had been divided. In other cases he had seen the leg kept permanently bent by bands in the ham ; or the feet twisted outwards or inwards in consequence of burns on the sides of these parts, or the legs, which had occurred in early life ; or the toes pointing straight upwards, or downwards sometimes with their dorsal surface directed to- wards the ground, so as entirely to incapacitate the patient from walking. Mr. Earle has known the contraction of the ci- catrix of a burn act with such force as to bring the shoulders towards one another by a partial absorption of the clavicles. He mentions another case in which not only the whole head was bowed down towards the sternum, but the lower jaw- bone curved down wards, so as only to admit of the last molar teeth coming in contact; the mouth being kept permanently open, and the di- rection of the incisor teeth so altered that they projected nearly in a horizontal line. In a third case the arm was pinioned to the side, and the hair and scalp drawn many inches down the back between the scapulaa. (See Ttco Led. on Burns, p. 41.) Such, indeed, is the force adverted to, that dislocations may he produced by it. I have known instances of this with reference to the thumb and fingers : and Cruveilhier describes the particulars of a rare example, in which the carpus was luxated from the radius from the same cause. (See Jnat. Pathol. liv. ix.) However numerous or diversified the deform- ities from burns may be, Dupuytren considered all of them as admitting of being classed under a few heads. All of them consist either of cicatrices, which are too narroic, or too prominent; or in un- natural adMsions, or obliterations, or in losses of organs. With respect to operations undertaken for the cure of deformities from burns, Dupuytren lays down the following principles:—1. The attempt should never be made till several months, or even years, after the formation of the cicatrix. This rule, he says, cannot be deviated from, without tho risk of incurring a great loss of substance, pro- duced by the destruction of the new-formed sub- stiince of the cicatrix. 2. An operation should never be practised unless a less deformed cica- trix than that which it is wished to correct can certainlj"- be obtained with the aid of position and bandages. This precept Dupuytren deemed spe- cially applicable to cicatrices on the face, which in general, he says, should not be meddled with. 3. An operation should only be imdertakeu when