8a AMPUTATION. pisifoiTO bone; and care must be taken to carry the knife over it, so as not to include it in the flap. In forming the flaps, care must be taken to leave enough integument on each side, otherwise, the styloid processes will be likely to protrude at the angles of the wound. M. A. Giidrin recom- mends a single flap large enough to cover the ends of the bones to be made from the palmar surface, the angles of which are to be united across the dorsum of the wrist by an incision slightly convex upwards, this he thinks preferable to the circular method, as it will leave a cicatrix more out of the way of irritation from pressure. (Elem. de Chir. Optr. 1855, p. 122.) This, it will be observed, is another application of M. Soupart's elliptical incision.] Ariputation of the Fore-Arm. This operation may be performed at any point between the elbow and the wrist; but it is now always considered desirable to retain as much of the limb as possible, notwithstanding the ob- jections entertained by Larrey and some other surgeons to amputation through the tendinous structures in the lower third of the fore-arm. The usefulness of the member will be increased if the amputation can be performed below the attachment of the supinator radii brevis, and pronator' radii teres, because the movements of pronation and supination will be thereby preserved. {Skey, Op. Surg. p. 339.) Circular Method.—A tourniquet is to be applied over the brachial arter}', or if preferred the vessel may be compressed by the fingers of an assistant. A second assistant should steady the limb and retract the skin upwards. A circular incision is now to be made down to the fascia, and as much skin is to be detached, reflected,1{nd saved as will be required to cover the ends of the bones. The muscles should next be cut through down to the bones on a level with the reflected skin, and a narrow double-edged knife should be passed be- tween and around them to divide the interosseous membrane and completely isolate the bones from any of the deep fibres which may remain attached to them. This having been carefully accomplished, the soft parts are to be protected from the saw by a linen retractor. If the operation is in the upper third of the fore-arm, it may, perhaps, be sufficient, in consequence of the greater abundance of soft parts, to retract the skin only, without reflecting it back; and in this situation, after the first division of the muscles in the manner above recommended; a second incision may be made at a somewhat higher level through the deeper fibres which are adherent to the bone. It is usually recommended that both bones should be sawn together; but that the division of the radius should be first completed, as the ulna, in consequence of its connection with the humerus, is better adapted to bear the weight of the saw. The ulnar, radial, and two inter- osseous arteries, will usually require ligatures. Amputation by Flaps.— Graefe removed the fore- arm by making a flap from the flesh in front of the limb, and then extending the wound quite romid the member. {Normen fur die Abolsung grosserer Gliedm. p. 13!!, &c. 4to. Berlin, 1812.) Mr. Guthrie made two flaps, one in front, the other on the back of the fore-arm : but above the middle of this part of the limb he preferred the circular incision. (0» Gunshot Wounds, p. 373, 374.) Dr. Hennen also expressed liia approbation of am- putating the fore-arm, so as to make two semilunar flaps {Principles of Military Surgery, p. 2G5. ed, 2), which is the method recommended and prac- tised by Klein {Practiiche Ansichten bcdeutendsten Operationen, heft i. p. 45); and Lisfranc also operated in this way at the lower third of the fore- arm. Amputation with one flap should be confined to those cases where the soft parts are destroyed to a greater extent on one aide of the limb than on the other. [In the amputation with two flaps the arm should be held in the supine position and a flap should be formed of the requisite length from the anterior surface by transfixion; the limb should then be pronated so as to bring the dorsal surface into view, and a posterior flap formed of a semi- lunar shape by incision from without inwards, or from the skin towards the bones. Both these flaps should be reflected up by an assistant, and the operation then completed in the same way as in tfie circular method. In the lower half of the fore-arm the tendons are liable to be drawn out over the edge of the knife and to be left longer than the integument. When this is the case, they must be cut off with the scissors to the re- quisite level. This is an application to the fore- arm of the mode of amputation recommended for the thigh by Mr. Luke. It will be found more convenient to proceed in this way than to form both flaps by transfixion, on account of the prox- imity of the bones to the posterior surface of the limb.] Amputation at the Elbow-Joint. Dupuytren, convinced of the correctness of the principle, that as much as possible of the upper extremity should always be saved, revived the practise of amputating at the elbow, whenever the state of the joint and of the soft parts admitted of such operation. This operation was performed by Dupuytren in ten or twelve examples with great success, and the method is also highly commended by Mr. Listen. (See Elem. of Surgery, part iii. p. 381.) Notwithstanding these authorities, however, it is not much in favour at the present time, and is rarely practised by English surgeons. [It must be borne in mind that the joint is placed at some distance below the condyles of the hu- merus, and that its direction is oblique, extending lower down on the inner than on the outer surface of the limb. The articulation will be found nearly an inch below the prominence of the internal, and about half an inch below that of the external con- dyle.] Tlie circular mclliod is recommended by M. Velpeau and also by Dupuytren when there _ is not a sufliciency of soft parts for an anterior flap. The incision should be made three fingers' breadth below the level of the joint and should extend through the integuments only; these should be drawn upwards, or reflected if necessary, as high as the articulation; the muscles should then be cut through, the joint opened and the disarticulation completed. The brachial artery will be divided before its bifurcation, and will be the only vessel requiring a ligature. Anterior F/a;). —The fore-arm being slightly bent, the soft parts in front should be transfixed oppo- site the joint, and a flap should be cut of suflicient extent to form an ample covering for the end of the