HEAD, INJUI ,IES OF THE. 897 I after the accident, the child was quiet, pale, and its pupils were contracted ; its sltin was ■warm, and pulse natural: it hail vomited. A cold lotion was applied to the head. On the following morn- ing the child was as lively as usual, and was per- fectly well. The depression became gradually leas apparent, but the bone remained depressed for some months. The child afterwai'ds ceased to attend, and the condition of the bone at this time is un- known; but we have no doubt that it was gradually raised to its proper level. The slight elasticity and comparatively yielding state of the bone at this early period of life explain the facility with which this form of injury occurs in the cranial bones of children. The thinness of the scalp renders it easy to distinguish the case from those limited forms of effusions of blood with central depression which not unfrequently, in the adult, embarrass tlie diagnosis of the surgeon. The simple movements of the brain appear suffi- cient to effect a gradual elevation of the depressed bone to its natural level; and generally no perma- nent deformity results. We are unable to solve the problem as to wlietiier there is really a frac- ture of the bone, or not, under such circumstances. We think there ia; but the question is quite unim- portant. But, even in young children, depressed and in- dented fracture may be followed by serious con- sequences. This happens when the bone is driven in forcibly by contact with a pointed instrument. In the second case, which was witnessed at the Lon- don Hospital, death took place from suppuration of the brain ten months after the accident; the child, during the greater portion of the intervening period, having remained free from any signs of cerebral disorder. In this case, on readmission, convulsions and other signs of deep cerebral mischief had set in, and the child sank soon after admission, no opera- tion having been had recourse to. In all cases, therefore, it is best to give a guarded prognosis, as at any period, especially if the bone has not attained its natural level, fatal cerebral mischief may arise. In the case just referred to, some absorption of the depressed bone had occurred, for the pulsations of the brain were distinctly perceptible. In the ab- sence of any signs of cerebral disturbance, it is quite unnecessary to interfere by operation in these cases ; and even in a case of compound fracture the trephine is unnecessary, unless the dura mater or the substance of the brain is penetrated,— a con- dition which would be recognised at once, and would probably be attended by convulsions, coma, paralysis, or other signs of cerebral disturbance. The persistence of such symptoms would lead a prudent surgeon to raise the bone. A fracture witli depression of the outer t:ible alone may happen in almost any part of the vault of the skull, but it is not very common : in the child it can only occur over the frontal sinuses, or into tlie mastoid cells, in consequence of the thin- ness of the bones generally. We have seen many in- stances of fracture of the outer table covering the frontal sinuses ; they are cases of a very simple character, and as the inner table remains entire, the cranial cavity is not injured, and the case is one of fracture of the face rather than of the cranium : it is quite unnecessary to raise tlie bone. The same remark applies to a fracture with depression into the mastoid cells. But the outer table may be de- pressed into tlio diploe, and if the case is un- attended with any injury to the inner table, it is unnecessary to interfere with it. There are great varieties of depressed fracture. Thus, a simple depression of bone in a nearly cir- cular form, and of very limited extent, may happen'; or a piece of bone may be depressed below the level of the adjacent portion, or it may be driven forcibly- beneath it. Sometimes' the bone is comminuted and depressed ; this frequently happens from gunshot wounds, as where a bullet impinging on the bone obliquely produces a starred and depressed frac- ture. Lastly, the bone maybe depressed and driven into the suljstance of the brain. Every variety of depressed fracture may be simple or compound. Treatment of depressed fracture. — In refer- ence to the treatment to be pursued in the various descriptions of depressed fracture, the following extract from the last edition of this Dictionary embodies the opinions of Pott, Aber- nethy, Samuel Cooper, and others, on this sub- ject, and contains much important information on the subject of depressed fracture in general, and on other cases of unusual occurrence and great interest.] Mr. Pott says : " In fractures with depression, the depressed parts are to be elevated, and such as are so separated as to be incapable of reunion, or of being brought to lie properly and without press- ing on the brain, are to be totally removed. These circumstances are peculiar to a depressed fracture; but although they are peculiar, they must not be considered as sole, but as additional to those which have been mentioned at large under the head of simple fracture : commotion, extravasation, inflam- mation, suppuration, and every ill which can attend on or be found in the latter, are to be met with in the former, and will require the same method of treatment." That loose splintered pieces of the cranium, when quite detached, and already in view, in consequence of the scalp being wounded, ought to be taken away, no one will be inclined to ques- tion. That they ought also to be exposed by an incision, even when the scalp is unwounded, and then taken away, whenever they cause urgent symptoms of irritation or pressure, I believe will be universally allowed. But the reader will already understand that several excellent surgeons do not coincide with Pott in believing that every depressed fracture of the skull necessarily demands the appli- cation of the trephine. "There certainly are (says Mr. Abernethy) degrees of this injury which it would be highly imprudent to treat in this manner. Whenever the patient retains his senses perfectly, I should think it improper to trephine him, unless symptoms arose that indicated the necessity of it." (P. 21.) It is extraordinary and unaccountable, but it is not less true, that no calculation of the bad effects can be made by the degree in which a part of the skull is depressed. This is a fact which has been long known. It has also been particu- larly adverted to by an eminent modern writer. " Various instances also presented themselves, in whicli, though a considerable degree of compiession must liave been occasioned, sometimes by tlio de- pression of both tables, and at other times by the depression of the inner table onlj% of the skull, yet neither stupor, paralysis, nor loss of meniory'was produced. In one of tiiese cases the middle "of the right parietal bono was fractured, and considerably depressed, by a ball, wliich was extracted on the 3 M