t 030 for the linro-lip, which, being pushed under ] I le disease at right angles, enabled him to pass I ligature around the base of it. In this instance became necessary to employ a second set of pins ■ 1 a second ligature; but the cure was ultimately c'inplete. (See Brodie, in Med. Chir. Trims. vol. XV. p. 177.) An infant, six weeks old, was brought to Mr. A\'ardrop, on account of an aneurism by anasto- 'sis (a subcutaneous naivus) of a very unusual e, situated on the left cheek. The base of the t.imor extended from the temple to beyond the angle of the jaw, completely enveloping the car- tilage of the ear. At its upper part, there was an ulcer, about three inches in diameter, presenting a sloughing appearance. The tumor was soft and doughy ; its size could be much diminished by pressure ; there was a throbbing in it, and a strong pulsation in the adjacent vessels. The disease was daily increasing, and several profuse hemorrhages had taken place from the ulcerated part. Mr. Wardrop knowing, from the case to which I have already adverted, the danger of attempting to extirpate so large a tumor of this nature, was led to try what benefit might be ob- tained by tying the carotid artery. A few hours ■ after this operation, the tumor became soft and pliable ; its purple colour disappeared, and the tortuous veins collapsed. On the second day, the skin had resumed its natural pale colour, and the ulceration continued to extend. On the third, the tumor still diminished. On the fourth, the swelling had considerably increased again ; the integuments covering it had become livid, and the veins turgid. The inosculating branches of the temporal and occipital arteries had become greatly enlarged. A small quantity of blood had I oozed from the ulcer. After remaining without much alteration, the tumor on the seventh day had again evidently diminished. On the ninth, the ulceration was extending itself slowlj', and the tumor was lessened fully one half. On the twelfth, the child's health was materially improving. The ■ auricular portion of the swelling had now so much diminished, that the cartilage of the ear had ! fallen into its natural situation. After poultices I had been applied for two days, the central por- I tion of the swelling, which appeared like a mass of hardened blood, was softened, and Mr. War- ! drop removed considerable portions of it. On the I thirteenth, the child became very ill, and died the I following day, exhausted by the irritation of an ulcer, which had involved the whole surface of an enormous tumor. Mr. Wardrop thinks the ad- vantages likely to occur from the plan of tying : the main arteries supplying tumors of this nature with blood arc, the diminution of the size of the disease ; the lessening of the danger of hemor- rhage, if the ulcerative process has commenced; and ' the rendering it practicable to remove the snclling with the knife, though the operation may previously have been dangerous, or impracticable. (Sec71/c(i. Cliir. Trans, vol. ix. p. QOO—214, &c.) In the foregoing part of this article, I mentioned the trial of tlie method of securing the principal branches of the external carotid distributed to the tumor. This plan has generally failed, and it did so in the example under Dupuytren, who, ■ therefore, decided to take up the common carotid ) itself. Ur. Gibson, in his Institutes of Surgery, however, relates a case, in which the practice ANEURISM. 2.3.9 succeeded. Tho patient, a woman, had a large pulsating tumor,- which covered almost the whole of the right side of the head, and often bled pro- fusely. Dr. Gibson began with cutting off the supply of blood to the tumor through the occipital and temporal arteries. The swelling now lessened, and its pulsations became weaker ; but, as this amendment was only temporary, he proceeded to divide the parts situated between the former inci- sions, and to tie the vessels. The first cut was two inches in length, and a great deal of blood was lost before all the vessels were secured. The second cut was three inches in extent; but so much blood was now lost, that it became necessary to postpone the completion of the operation. After twelve days, the incisions were extended again; and, at the end of the fortnight, the circumvection of the wound was completed, and th? tumor removed : the periosteum being left, from which granulations soon arose, and, in a few weeks, the wound was healed. Aneurism by anastomosis, when situated on the fingers, may render amputation of them indispen- sable, provided the whole of the disease cannot be got rid of by other means. I once saw, with Mr. Law- rence, an aneurism by anastomosis, situated on the ring finger of the right hand, in a young woman, about t\yenty3'ears of age. The disease was attended with painful sensations, extending to various parts of the limb and the breast, and the arm was dis- qualified for any kind of exertion. In January, 1815, Mr. Hodgson had taken up the radial and ulnar arteries, and the first consequences of the operation were an entire cessation of beating, col- lapse of the swelling, and relief from pain; but these symptoms all recurred in a few days. Finding compression unavailing, and the sufferings of the patient increasing, Mr. Lawrence proposed ampu- tation of the finger at the matacarpal joint ; but as this suggestion was not approved of, he recom- mended the patient to try the effects of a division of all the soft parts, by a circular incision close to the palm, so as to cut off the supply of blood. This operation Mr. Lawrence performed, in the presence of Mr. George Young and myself, in as complete a manner as can possibly be conceived. All the soft parts, excepting the flexor tendons, with their theca;and the extensor tendon, were di- vided. ■-The digital artery, which had pulsated so evidently in the palm of the hand, was fully eqiuvl in size to the radial, or ulnar of an adult, and was the principal nutrient vessel of the disease. After tying this and the opposite one, we were surprised at finding so strong a jot of arterial blood from the other orifices of these two vessels, as to roiuler lic.a- tures necessary. I can here only add, that the whole finger bej'ond the cut swelled very consider- ably ; the incision healed slowly ; the swelliiiK subsided, but did not entirely disappear ; the inte- guments recovered their natural colour ; the pulsa- tion and pain were removed ; and the patient so far recovered the use of her arm, that she could work at her needle for an hour together, and use the arm for most purposes. (See Wiml.rop's Ol>s on niw Species o/NcBvus, in I\[c<L Chir. Trans, vol ix p. 210'.) Mr. Russell, an uriny surgeon, has pub- lished some interesting particulars of an aneu- rism by anastomosis of the hand. The patient (a lauiulress), aged 41, had two tumors, each about the size of a walnut; one at the extremity of the