566 [DISLOCATION, luxation of the- tibia forwards waa seen in Guy's Hospital. According to Sir Astley Cooper, while the tibia projects forward the thigh-bone is de- pressed, and thrown somewhat laterally as well as backwards. The os femoris makes such pressure on the popliteal artery, as to prevent the pulsation of the anterior tibial artery on the instep; and the patella and tibia are drawn forwards by the rectus muscle. {Surgical Essays, part ii, p. 73.) [This dislocation is rather more frequent than the last. It may be caused by forced extension of the knee-joint, or by direct violence so applied as to drive the femur backwards or the tibia forwards. It may be complete or ijicomplete, but is much more frequently the former; for out of twenty-six examples, M. Malgaigne could only find two or three of the incomplete kind. In the complete dislocation the limb is short- ened, sometimes to a considerable extent. In a case under Mr. Mayo, in the Middlesex Hospital, "the extremity of the condyles was fully four inches below the level of the articular surface of the tibia." {Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xxvi. p. 869.) According to M. Malgaigne, in the complete dislo- cation the patella is usually placed horizontally upon the head of the tibia, with its cutaneous sur- face turned upwards ; while in the incomplete dislocation it is placed obliquely, with the cuta- neous surface looking upwards and forwards. The position of the knee is not constant, it is sometimes extended, sometimes slightly flexed. In- the dis- section of a case of complete dislocation forwards, described and figured by M. Malgaigne, the fol- lowing condition of parts was found : there was an enormous laceration on the outer side of the patella, comprising the capsule, the external lateral liga- ment, and the aponeurosis of the vastus externus; the capsule was likewise torn internally and pos- teriorly, and also the internal lateral and anterior crucial ligaments. The biceps and the outer head of the gastrocnemius were torn across; the inner head of the gastrocnemius, the soleus and the vastus internus also presented some lacerations. The popliteal nerve was raised over the internal condyle of the femur, the vessels were lodged in the condyloid notch, and were apparently unin- jured. (Traiie. des Fract. t. ii. p. 939, pi. xxix.) The reduction is generally accomplished without difficulty by extending the limb and making pres- sure upon the displaced bones in opposite direc- tions. Or the leg may be bent over the knee of an assistant, slight extension being made at the same time. In case of compound dislocation, how- under the care of Mr. Birkett, in Guy's [Two cases of this dislocation are mentioned in Sir A. Cooper's work; and a third has been re- corded by Mr. Aston Key. In this latter the tibia was not only thrown inwards, but the leg formed a remarkable angle with the thigh, having a direction inwards; and was so far twisted that the spine of the tibia faced, in a considerable degree, towards the other leg; at the same time, the inner side of the leg faced upwards, and the sole of the foot faced towards the other leg. The patella was thrown very much inwards, following the course of the tibia. The limb was bent nearly at right angles. (See Guy's Hosj). Reports, 1836. vol. i. p. 257.) In another case, which is mentioned by M. Mal- gaigne, the leg was bent at an angle outwards from the thigh, but it had undergone the same movement of rotation inwards which was observed in Mr. Key's case, and which is mentioned by Sir A. Cooper, Reductio7i. — This will be effected without much difficulty by extending the limb, and by making pressure upon the tibia and femur in opposite directions. If the leg has been twisted inwards, it should be rotated outwards at the same time that the extension is being made. In Mr. Key's case, he first attempted to reduce the dislocation by carrying the limb round a bed-post, but the direction thus given to it appeared to oppose the reduction. Extension was then made from the ancle, and counter-extension from the thigh, at the —, — — _ J — — -J « Hospital, reduction was found impracticable, and the limb -was amputated.] Dislocation intvards,—In the dislocation in- wards, which is almost invariably incomplete, the inner condyle of the os femoris is thrown upon the external semilunar cartilage, and the tibia projects at the inner side of the joint, so as at once to dis- close the nature of the accident; and a depression may be felt under the external condyle. Such a case was brought into University College Hospital in the autumn of 1836; and was easily reduced by Mr. Hallara, then one of the house surgeons. Sir A. Cooper states that the tibia is rather twisted upon the os femoris, so that the condyle of the latter bone is thrown somewhat backwards as well as outwards. same time bringing the limb to. a straight line; and as he rotated the foot and leg outwards by grasping the toes, by pressing the outer condyle inwards, the luxation was easily reduced, but in a gradual manner, and without any audible snap. This patient was kept perfectly quiet for a con- siderable time, but was able to return to his work three months after the accident, and at the end of six or eight months the limb was not at all defi- cient in strength. (Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. i. p. 257,) In one of the cases mentioned by Sir A. Cooper, the patient himself reduced the dislo- cation by getting one of his fellow-workmen to extend the limb, while he pushed the head of the tibia outwards into its natural place. (On Dislo- cations, p. 205. B. Cooper's ed.)] I have stated that lateral luxations of the tibia from the femur are almost always incomplete; but the possibility of a complete dislocation inwards seems to be established by the 402d Observ. of Lamotte, [A case complete compound dislocation inwards was observed by Messrs. Miller and Hoffman, in 1825. A man, £et. 28, in mounting a carriage en- gaged his leg between the spokes of the wheel and the carriage started before he was able to disengage himself. The femur was completely separated from the tibia, and thrown outwards and down- wards; the external condyle escaped through a laceration in the integuments of three inches in extent; this laceration exposed the joint and also the popliteal artery, which, however, was other- wise uninjured. The reduction was effected at once, and without difficulty, and in a few months' time the patient was able to walk tolerably well, without the aid of crutches. (Lond. Afed. Repos. vol. xxiv. p. 346; Malgaigne, loc.cit.p. 958.) Another instance, also compound, was commu- nicated to M. Malgaigne by M. Galli. The acci- dent was caused by a fall from a horse, The