''"'^ FEVER thises; tlie spirits are ruffled; the nights are rest- less; the appetite fails, the pulse acquires an undue bound; and the white tongue, the creeping chilli- ness, and slight erratic pains of symptomatic fever are present." {Travcrs on Cons/iluiionalIrriiatioti, p. 15.) We may set down the ordinary symptoms of inflammatory fever, occurring in consequence of local inflammation in common parts, and in a healthy habit, as follows:—The pulse is frequent, full, and strong; all the secretions are diminished; the patient is vigilant and restless; the perspiration is obstructed, and the skin is hot and dry; the urine is high-coloured, and in small quantity,' the mouth is parched, and the tongue furred; an op- pressive thirst is experienced; with disturbance of the nervous system; loss of appetite and sleep; and, in some cases, delirium. As Dr. Thomson has remarked, " the inflam- matory fever, succeeding to external injuries, or to chirurgical operations, undergoes a kind' of natural crisis, by the appearance of suppuration In these instances, therefore, unless when th( patient is strong and in full health, when the dis ease is seated in an organ of much importance to life, or is in danger of spreading, as is the case in all inflammations of the membranes lining the three great cavities of the hoAy, the lancet ought to be used with caution. For we may, by too free a detraction of blood, produce a sudden sinking of the powers of life, and convert the existing con- stitutional symptoms into fever of a difi'erent type or character. But, in all cases of inflammation, in which any doubt arises with regard to the farther general detraction of blood, it ma}', I be- lieve, be laid down as a general rule, that it is safer to employ local than general blood-letting." (Lectures on Ivjlammalion, p. 170.) Here we leave the subject, referring our readers to Art. Inflammation for the modern views.] [II. Irritative or Pyemic Fever. Under this designation we include the sum of the con- stitutional symptoms which accompany the class of local inflammations of which erysipelas and diffuse inflammation are types. It corresponds strictlv with the irritative fever of Butter, and the consti- tutional irritation of Travel's. It was evidently considered by Travers, and the other writers of that generation, that fever, i.e. sj'mptomatic fever, was a normal consequence of injuries in healthy persons ; but that, under certain depressing circumstances, the symptoms displayed were not those of fever, but of acute constitutional irritation, arising from the action of an injuiy or poison on the nervous system. At that day, humoral pathology was in abeyance, and solidisni reigned undisturbed. D'mcl irritation was the term used to signify the primary effect of the injury or poison; rejkoled irritation, the effects of 'the changes which it subsequently set up in the blood. The symptoms of irritative fever, using the word to sigiiify the constitutional symptoms of pyremia and (iiifuse inflammation, are thus summed up by Mr. Travers : — " Jiigors, nausea, and retching, abdominal tension, restlessness, and depression of spirits, with a rapid and feeble pulse, coated tongue, pinched countenance, partial perspirations, and", at length, delirium, followed by stupor and laborious Ijreathmg." {ConslUulioiMl In-italio„, p. 270'.) Ine presence of inilaramation, continues Mr. •I-ravers, is an indication of power, and implies that the nervous system is unexhausted. Pain and fever are incompatible with the state of high nros tration. The pulse of real fever does not exceed a certain limit, and that consists with tlie property ol distinctness; when it is innumerable, and from that cause indistinct, it ceases to be fever. Rigors followed by increased heat, sometimes by profuse and fetid perspirations; action of the lieart more rapid, tumultuous, and oppressed, than in common symptomatic fever; pulse jerking and soft, and from 120 to ICO or more; breathing rapid that IS from 30 to 40 or more per minute; nervous system variously affected: sometimes the mind quite clear; some sleep, if there be no local pain- sometimes delirium; later, stupor or coma, with twitchmgs or jerkings of the limbs: in some cases great irascibility and snappishness; hiccough op- pression at the region of the heart, and faintness- the bowels sometimes the seat of eliminative ef- forts; putrid, or bilious, or offensive motions, or redness of tongue, with aphthte; in most cases tongue coated, diy, and white, or moist and yellow; at a later stage dry and black; nausea, retching^ and vomiting very frequent; urine vai-iable. Such' are the symptoms. These symptoms admit of classification in various sets of cases, and the best is that proposed by Dr. Ferguson, in his work on puerperal fever, with which this malady, as seen in the surgical records of hospitals, is perfectly homologous, if a wound or; injury be substituted for a recently emptied womb. The first form is that in which local s}Tnp- toms at the seat of injury preponderate, as in the peritoneal form of puerperal fever, or in cases of Irritative Fever, related Art. Erysipelas, or 111 the following description of phlebitis after vene- section, from Mr. Travers : — _ " Moderate swelling, but great tension of the limb, and cordy hardness of the vein, traceable to- wards the axilla; insupportable pain, sense of weight and immobilit}-, with a festered or oozing state of the orifice, are local symptoms; but the extreme constitutional excitement, morbid vigilance, mental irritability and despondency, partaking' more of the nervous than of the simple inflamma- tory type, is peculiar. The blood drawn is strongly Clipped and bufty. The pulse, rapid and stringj-, becomes more full and soft after copious depletion, but the pain is only partially relieved." Surgically speaking, the safety of a "patient in such a state will depend on free incisions. (See Kiivsii-ela.s AND Diffuse Inflammation.) Besides the danger arising from enormous suppuration in loco, affecting probably the veins and lymphatics, there is that of secondary abscesses into the joints or viscera. The second form, says Dr. Ferguson, assumes the character of mild typhus, with intestinal irrita- tion. After a rigor and hot fit, there is marked irritation of the mucous membrane of the intestinal canal, either vomiting, nausea, or diarrhrea, in which the evacuations display every shade and de- gree of colour and consistence. The tongue, at first loaded and white, soon becomes preternatiirally red. The skin is dry, hot, and dusky yellow; the mind is unsettled, without being absolutely de- lirious, and the impressions on the e\'cs are un- wontedl}' vivid; the debility extreme, and the limbs'tremulous. This form, if it terminates fatally, probably does so by purulent deposits, as the for- mer docs.