1006 HORDEOLUM. be cited. Minute particles of insoluble substances, as of charcoal, taken into the alimentary canal, are said to be capable of passing into the circulation and of blocking up the minute capillaries in the brain. Oerstenlin.) Blood pigment from fragments of thrombi or emboli crumbling down and decompos- ing, and pigment cells, or coloured elements which do not belong to the blood,believed by Virchow to be derived from the spleen, have similar effects; and a most important principle enunciated by the patho- logist just quoted is, that when such thrombi or emboli are altered in character, as when they pro- ceed from a gangrenous wound, they modify the nature of the process arising from the obstruction, just as if gangrenous matter had been inoculated. Other substances received into the blood alter its densit}', pressure, and viscidity; and thereby influence the rapidity of its circulation in the tissues, and the processes of endosmose and exos- mose — oily substances for instance. (See Art. Blood, Coagulation of, during Life ; Blood, Pigment Granules in; HYPEBiEMiA ; Thrombus.) Many substances have a specific action on the elements of the tissues and in the parenchymatous fluids. Chemical affinities exist between definite tissues and the fluids they contain, and definite substances, whether those substances may have been conveyed to the part by the blood or applied more directl)'. By virtue of this elective affinity, certain parts attract particular substances from the blood. Thus, free fat in the blood is attracted by , the hepatic cells. The crystalline lens has an at-' traction for some of the constituents of glucogenic blood, in consequence of which cataract is produced. (See Dr. W. Budd, On Diseases ivldcli affect corre- sponding parts of the Body ; Med. CUrur. Trans. 1842, p. 100.) Amyloid substance, the basis of those affections of the kidney, liver, spleen, and Ijnnphatic glands, termed lardaceous or " waxy," has rarely if ever been detected in the blood, but all the circum- stances of the amyloid degeneration lead to the conclusion that the fluid constituents of the blood are modified by some acrimony, and that the ma- terials of this substance, or of the starch granule, are furnished direct from the blood by elective aflinity to the tissues. The amyloid substance has been found in almost every tissue; the cerebrum, cerebellum, liver, spleen, lung, kidney, striped muscular substance, and areolar tissue. In one case Virchow found it in every organ examined, and it usually occurs in many parts of the body simultaneously. The earliest seat of the change is the walls of the minutest arteries, after >vhich the change extends to the surrounding parenchy- ma. The parts which are its seat of election, as the vessels and gland cells, become totally incapable of discharging their functions, and frequently form a mechanical impediment to the circulation of the blood; or by obstructing the lymph vessels and glands produce ulterior changes in the blood. General cachexia, dropsy, and marasmus are its concomitants. There are cases in which every minute artery in the digestive track from the mouth to the anus is affected. Acrimonies in the blood are frequently convej'ed from one part of the body to-another, and arc thus the causes of a true metastasis. In gout, when the kidneys fail to excrete the excess of uric acid, this, acrimony accumulates in the blood, and by elective affinity is deposited at definite points' Virchow has pointed out a very remarkable meta- stasis of this nature. In cases of great destruction of bone, the earthy salts are absorbed and received into the blood; if at the same time there is an im- peded elimination of the salts of lime by the kid- ney, they may be deposited in other parts of the body as " a fine incrustation or infiltration." Car- bonate and phosphate of lime has thus, in diseases of the bones, been found deposited in the lungs, the mucous membrane of the stomach, and the vessels of the medullary substance of the brain. These metastases sometimes produce the pains of rheuma- tism. It becomes a question also whether the ossification of the tissues of the heart and blood vessels, the lens, &c., occurring in old age, is not connected with senile wasting of the bones. The effects of foreign substances in the blood have been most studied in relation to poisons. (See ToxiEMiA.)] Henry Aneell. HORDEOLUM, (dim. of hordeum, barlej^) A little tumor on the eye lid resembling a barle)-- corn. A stye. As Scarpa remarks, the stye is strictly only a little boil, which projects from the edge of the eye-lids, frequently near the great angle of the eye. Like the furunculus, it is of a dark-red colour, much inflamed, and a great deal more painful than might be expected, considering its small size. The latter circumstance is partly owing to the vehemence of the inflammation, and partly to the exquisite sensibility and tension of the skin covering the edge of the eyelids. On this accoimt, the hordeolum very often excites fever and restlessness in delicate irritable constitutions ; it suppurates slowly and imperfectly ; and, when suppurated, has no tendency to burst. The stye, like other furunculous inflammations, forms an exception to the general rule, that the best mode in which inflammatory swellings can end is resolution. For, whenever a furunculous inflam- mation extends so deeply as to destroy any of the cellular substance, the little tumor can never be resolved or only imperfectly so. This event, in- deed, would rather be hurtful, since there would still remain behind a greater or smaller portion of dead cellular membrane ; which, sooner or later, might bring on a renewal of the stye in the same place as before, or else become converted into a hard indolent body, deforming the edge of the eye- lid, and termed grando. The resolution of the incipient hordeolum may be efl^ected in that stage of it in which the inflam- mation only interests the skin, and not the cellular substance underneath, as is the case on the first appearance of the disease. Now repellent, cold applications are useful, particularly ice. But when the hordeolum has affected and destroyed any of the cellular membrane underneath, everj- tcpical repellent application is absolutely useless, and even hurtful; and the patient should have recourse to emollient anodyne remedies. The hordeolum and eyelids should be covered with a warm soft bread and milk poultice, which 'ought to be renewed very often. When a white point makes its appear- ance on the apex of the little tumor, Scarpa says the surgeon should not be in a hurry to let out the small quantity of serous matter which exists be- tween the skin and dead portion of cellular mem- brane. It is better that he should wait till ine skin, within this white point, has become soraewnai