FRACTURE, towards the tibia by pressure ; a change in the point of incidence of the axis of the limb upon the toot ; distortion of the foot outwards, and some- times backwards ; rotation of the same part upon Its axis fl-om within outwards ; an angular depres- sion, more or less manifest, at the outer and lower part of the leg ; projection of the internal mal- leolus ; disappearance of almost all these sym- ptoms, as soon as reduction is effected by a force applied to the foot; and their immediate recur- rence when such force is discontinued, particu- larly if the limb be in the extended posture. fVol cit. p. 68.) ^ [The different modes in which the indirect frac- ture of the fibula may be produced have been the subject of much discussion. Dupuytren stated that in his 207 cases of fracture of the fibula (after set- ting apart one-tenth produced by direct violence), six-tenths arose from violent adductive movements of the foot, and three-tenths from similar abductive movements. This is not the opinion of surgeons ge- nerally in this country, who believe that the frac- ture from eversion is more frequent than that from inversion of the foot. Certainly the displacement of the foot which often accompanies or follows fracture of the fibula is much more frequent in the direction outwards, as described by Mr. Pott, than in the direction inwards, and it is impossible' to understand how the foot can be displaced out- wards, by violence which operates in such a direction as to invert it. Neither are we disposed to agree with Dupuytren, that the fracture of the fibula from eversion of the foot is always preceded by rupture of the internal lateral ligament or fracture of the internal malleolus; on the con- trary, it is found that in many cases of simple fracture a little above the ankle attributed to eversion, and attended with little or no displace- ment of the foot, the symptoms are confined to the region of the fibula, and there is no evidence of injury in the neighbourhood of the internal lateral ligament or internal malleolus, which would necessarily be the case if the injury to these parts^ always preceded the fracture of the fibula. It is more reasonable to suppose that the twist of the foot first occasions the fracture of the fibula, and often stops short at this point ; but if it continues to operate, or if, after the fracture, the patient should bear his weight on the injured limb, which has then lost its accustomed support on the outer side, the internal lateral ligament, or the in- ternal malleolus, may give way, and the disloca- tion of the tibia inwards (or of the foot outwards) may be produced. But although fracture of the fibula from eversion of the foot is probably the most frequent, there is little doubt that a twist of the foot imuards may also fracture the bone near its lower extremity. Dupuytren speaks of the fracture from inversion as often producing the same displacement of the foot which has just been described. It is difli- cult, however, to understand how this could occur. The explanation of such cases given by M. Mal- gaigne is more satisfactory : he believes that the inversion has first caused the fracture of the fibula, and that, the patients having attempted to bear ttieir weight upon the injured limb, the dislocation duced °"''^''i'<ls has been subsequently pro- It is as well to remark that the words outwards ana inwards, applied to these displacements of the foot, are here used in their most obvious sense and not in the sense in which Dupuytren employed them; what is here spoken of as displacement e;,- wards, he was m the habitof describing as displace- ment outwards. (On this point, see Dislocations 0/ the An/de-jomt, ante, p. 571.) M. Maisonneuve rejects the fracture by abduc- tion According to him it is not abduction, but a rotation of the point of the foot outwards, which, ia ivf'i'r","^ <=^"«e of the fracture M. Malgaigne says that, judging from the state- ments of patients, the majority of fi-actures of the hbula take place from a movement of forced ad- duction of the foot, that is to say, from the effect 01 a fall or of a false step, in which the weight of the body falls upon the external border of the foot He thinks It difficult to explain the mechanism of the accident, but remarks that the movement of adduction IS usually accompanied by an inclination of the point of the foot inwards. Others are attributed by the patients to a fall or a false step in which the weight of the body falls upon the internal border of the foot, which is consequently carried in the direc- tion of abduction; but he thinks that the abduction IS almost necessarily associated with the rotation of the point of the foot outwards, as explained by M. Maisonneuve. His experience is that, whatever may be the cause of tiie fracture, its seat is usually from two and a half to three inches above the point of the malleolus, and rarely higher or lower than this.—Traite des Fraot., t. i. p. 808.] In considering the varieties of simple fracture of the fibula with reference to the part of the bone fractured, the Jirst to which Dupuytren adverts is that in which the bone is broken more than three inches ahovc the ctiremity of the maileolns externics; a case neither accompanied nor followed by any displacement of the foot, and almost always produced by the direct application of violence to the broken part of the bone. The second variety is when the bone has been broken, either by direct or indirect force, tviiMn three inches from the end of the malleolus ea-ternus, and when the foot is not displaced, though much dis- placement is possible, and indeed often arises from the sliglitest effort or movement made by the patient after the injury. The most frequent point of fracture is about two inches and a half above the extremity of the outer malleolus. This is generally the place of a. fracture caused by a twist of the foot outwards ; but the accident may happen lower down, as is commonly seen viieii the fracture is occasioned by a twist of the foot inwards. [It is doubtful whether the opinion of Du- puytren, which has been acquiesced in by most subsequent writers, that the fracture from inver- sion is situated nearer the malleolus than that from eversion, is really correct. As has been already mentioned, M. Mal^aigne's opinion is, that whichever be the direction of the foot at the time of the injury, the fracture is in the great majority of cases situated from two and a half to three inches above the malleolus.] These fractures of the fibula, abstractedly viewed, are not of much importance in themselves ; but with reference to the manner in which they fa- cilitate the dislocation of the foot, they are very serious. Amongst the most frequent complications of fractures of the fibula, are the rupture of the iu-