BLADDER. 310 lines more forward than the verge of the anus. The instrument is first to be pushed in a direction parallel to the axis of the body, and its point is afterwards to be turned a little inwards. Here, according to Bichat, there is no occasion to con- vey the canula so far into the bladder as is done ■when the operation is performed above the pubes. The portion of this viscua which is to be pierced being incapable of changing its position, with re- gard to other parts in the perineum, if the canula only project a few lines into its cavity, it will not be liable to slip out. It would be wrong, indeed, to carry it in further ; for the pressure of its end against the posterior parietes of the bladder would do harm. Lastly, the canula is to be fixed in its place by means of the T bandage. (See Qiuvrcs C/tir. de Desauli, t. iii. p. 320.) As a ■ silver canula, when kept introduced too long, becomes covered with a thick incrustation, rendering its extraction difficult and painful, care should be taken to withdraw it after five or six days, and to replace it as soon as it has been cleaned, or else to substitute another for it, accord- ing as the circumstances of the case require. When Dr. Ehrlich visited London, Mr. Chandler tapped the bladder through the perineum, and introduced a canula, which, after remaining in the puncture three weeks was so thickly covered with an in- crustation, that its extraction produced consider- able laceration of the parts, and a great deal of inflammation followed by an urinar}' fistula was the result. (See Did. des Sciences Med. t. ii. p. 205.) The parts divided in the puncture are the skin, perineal fascia, a good deal of adipose and cellular substance, the levator ani muscle, and that portion of the lower part of the bladder which is situated on one side of its neck. The puncture of the bladder from the perineum is now universally abandoned by British surgeons. " We may esteem it fortunate," says Desault, "if the trocar penetrates directly into the bladder, after piercing the fat and the muscles, situated between the tuberosity of the ischium and the anus ; and as this viscus is subject to much variation in its form, the surgeon will often be defeated, unless he be perfectly clear in his ideas respecting its situation and figure. This disap- pointment is not without example, and there is sufficient cause to deter a practitioner from perform- ing this operation, independently of the danger of wounding with the trocar the vasa deferentia, vesiculae seminales, ureter, &c," (^Parisian Chir. Jo'irn. vol. ii. p. 267.) Sabatier conceives that the operation would be more safe if the surgeon were to begin with making a deep incision in the perineum, as is practised in the lat;'ral way of cutting for tlie stone, and if he were to desist from plunging the trocar into the bladder until he had assured himself of the situation of this viscus, and felt the fluctuation of the urine. {Mcdccine Opmiloirc, t. ii. p. 127.) Sir Astley Cooper also directs an incision to be mjide in the perineum, as in lithotomy ; the bulb of the penis to be pushed towards the patient's right side ; the knife then carried within the ramus of the ischium till it reaches the prostate gland, wliich is likewise to be pushed toward the patient's right side ; and lastly, the instrument to be passed obliquely up- w-ards into the bladder, the operator's finger resting on the prostate gland. {Lectures, <S-c. vol. ii.p. 31-1.) 2. Punctuhe above the Pubes. The method of tapping the bladder above the pubes was suggested by the possibility of extracting calculi from that viscus, by what is usually deno- minated the high operation. The first performers of the puncture above the pubes are said to have employed a straight trocar. The consequence was that when such a trocar was too long, its canula remaining in the bladder injured its opposite parietes, so as to occasion inflammation and a slough, on the separation of which the urine was liable to insinuate itself either into the abdomen, or rectum, as happened in a case mentioned by Mr. Sharp, where no more urine was discharged through the canula, and the patient died of a sort of diarrhoea. When the trocar is short, the bladder, on subsiding and contracting itself, gra- dually quits the canula, which becomes useless, and a necessity for making another puncture may be produced. Whatever pains may be taken to direct the trocar obliquely downwards and backwards, so that the canula may be, in some degree, parallel to the axis of the bladder, one or the other of these accidents cannot always be prevented. Their prevention, however, may be effected by merely employing, instead of a straight trocar, a curved one, which will naturally take a suitable direction. This improvement was soon embraced by Frerae Come. To this way of operating Mr. Sharp was par- tial, and Mr. Abernethy has recommended it under certain circumstances. It is an operation generally of no difficulty to the surgeon, and of little pain to the patient, the violence done to the bladder being at a distance from the parts affected. It is equally applicable whether the disorder bs in the urethra or prostate gland ; and when there are strictures, the use of bougies may be con- tinued, while the canula remains in the bladder. [Critical Inquiry, 125, ed. 4.) Some surgeons recommend making an incision, about two inches long, through the linea alba, a little way above the pubes, and then introducing a trocar intg the bladder. Others deem this pre- liminary incision quite useless, asserting that the operation may be performed with equal safety, and less pain to the patient, by puncturing at once the skin, the linea alba, and the bladder. If the person were very corpulent, an incision might be proper ; but, in ordinary cases, it is not necessar)'. When the trocar has been introduced, the stilette must be withdrawn, and the cftnula kept in its position by a riband, passed through two little rings, with which it should be constructed, and fastened round the bod)'. The orifice of the ca- nula should be slopped up with a little plug, which will keep the urine from dribbling away involun- tarily, and may be taken out as often as necessary'. (E'ncit'chpcdic Mcthodique; Fori. Chirurg. art. Puracenicse de la Vcssie.) Tlie trocar should be introduced in a direction obliquely downward and backward ; for, as this corresponds with the axis of tiie bladder, the in- strument will be less likely to injure the opposite side of that organ. Many writers advise the puncture to be made an inch, or an inch and a half, above the pubes. The reasons for so doing arc the foilowmg : — " If the puncture be made close to the os pubis, the bladder in that part, often rising with an almost perp.ndicular slope, leaves a chasm be«