Iioacl of the bone is out of the glenoid cavity, the 1 nife is to be carried along the internal part ot the lio;id and neck of the humerus, with its edge close to the bone. An anterior flap, equal to the poste- rior one, is to be formed, consisting of a portion of tiie deltoid, great pectoral, biceps, and coraco- brachialis muscles, and including the brachial vessels and nerves. The artery is to be taken hold of with a pair of forceps, and tied. Any other vessels which require a ligature are also now to be secured. (See Alcm. de Chir. Militaire, t, ii. p. 170.) When Larrey published his campaign in Egypt, he had operated in this way on nineteen patients, tliirteen of whom recovered. But, at a subsequent period, he and his colleagues had amputated at the shoulder in upwards of a hundred cases, more than ninety of which recovered. (Mem de Chir. Mil. t. iv. p. 432, 8vo. Paris, 1817.) In Dupuytren's second method, which he pre- ferred, whenever the state of the soft parts ad- mitted of it, he formed an anterior and a posterior flap. The arm being raised to a right angle with the trunk, the heel of the interosseous knife or catlin, is placed below and a little in front of the acromion. Thence the operator cuts with a firm hand, and by one stroke, all the soft parts at the back of the shoulder down to the posterior border of the axilla. The flap being raised, exposes the back of the articulation. The elbow is now carried to the front of the chest, so as to make the head of the humerus prominent, and the tendons and cap- sule are divided upon it. The bone having been disarticulated, the knife is carried round its head from behind forwards, is conveyed from above downwards along the anterior surface of the hu- merus, so as to form the second flap, the detach- ment of which is completed as soon as an assistant has taken hold of its base, and compressed the artery included in it between his finger and thumb. Unless the surgeon were an ambidexter, he should stand in front of the patient in operating on the left shoulder, and commence with the anterior flap. Dupuytren regarded this last method as particularly advantageous. The two flaps extend in the direction of the longest diameter of the wound, and can be brought together with exact- ness and facility. The ligatures, twisted into a single cord, and brought out downwards, form a kind of conductor for the purulent matter out- ward. The cicatri.x resulting from the operation is linear, and promptly funned, with less risk of axillary abscesses tlian after the other method. (See Lefons Orales de Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 326.) These oljservations are subject to the consideration, that, when the patient is put to bed after the removal of the arm at the shoulder, the most depending point of the wound may be in some degree reguiatcd by the position in which he lies. If an anterior and posterior flap were formed, he should lie with his chest raised forwards ; if a flap had been formed above, and the line of the wound were transverse, he should be placed with the shoulder less elevated. Another plan of amputating at the shoulder has been proposed by Lisfranc. Supposing the left extremity is to be removed, the patient is placed on an elevated scat, one assistant pressing the ar- tery against the first rib, whilst another draws the arm forwards ; the operator, standing behind the patient with a long-bladed catlin, pierces the AlTION. 91 integuments on the inner edge of the latiseimua dorsi muscle, opposite the middle of the axilla, and pushes it obliquel}'- upwards and forwards, till its point sti'ikes against the under surface of the acromion ; then, by raising the handle of the knife, its point is lowered, and protruded just in front of the clavicle at its junction with the acro- mion. By cutting downwards and outwards, he then forms a flap from the superior and posterior part of the arm, including the whole breadth of the deltoid muscle, and a part of the latissimus dorsi, dividing also the tendons inserted into the great tuberosity, and opening the capsule by the same stroke. This flap being held back by the assistant, the joint is cut through from behind forwards, and a corresponding flap is formed by cutting downwards and outwards, between the muscles and bone, on the inner side of the arm. When the operation is on the right side, the patient should be seated on a low chair, and the catlin thrust from above down- wards, from the part just in front of the point where the clavicle is connected with the acromion, the surgeon raising his hand as the instrument pro- ceeds downwards and backwards, until its point has come out at the inner edge of the latissimus dorsi, when the flap is to be made, and the opera- tion finished as above directed. (See Averill's Operative Surgery, p. 135. Also Lisfranc de St. Martin, et Champesme, Nouveau Proccde Operatoire pour Vamputation du hras dans son articulation scapulo-humerale. Paris, 1815.) [This method is very rapid and brilliant when well per- formed, but it requires a practised hand and consi- derable dexterity to prevent the kiiife becoming fixed between the head of the humerus and the acromion. This embarrassment is all the more likely to occur if the acromion is prominent, and especially if it projects forwards over the shoulder more than usual, which is sometimes the case.] Oral Incision.—Mr. Guthrie, who was one of the first to recommend this mode of operation, com- mences the first incision immediately belovv the acromion, and, with a gentle curve, extends it down- wards and inwards, through the integuments onlj- a little below the anterior fold of the armpit. The second incision outwards is made after the same manner; but is carried rather further down, so as to expose the long head of the triceps at the under edge of the deltoid. The third incision, commencing at the same spot as the first, but following the mar- gin of the retracted skin, divides the deltoid on that side down to the bone, and exposes the insertion of the pectoralis major, which must be cut throueh. This flap is now to be raised, so as to expose the head of the bone. The fourth incision outwards divides the deltoid muscle down to the bone, when the posterior flap is to be well turned back, so as to bring into view the teres minor and infra- spinatus passing from the scapula to the great tuberosity of tlie humerus. The outer and inner flap being now raised, the head of the bone may be rolled a little outwards, the teres minor and infra-spinatus cut, and an opening made into the joint. The capsular ligament, supra-spinatus, and long head of the biceps are then divided. The inner side of the capsule is now cut through, to- gether with the subscapularis muscle, as it approaches its insertion into the lesser tuberosity of the hu- merus. The long head of the triceps is next di- vided; and, lastly with one sweep of the knife, the rest of the soft parts arc cut, together with tlio