EAR. 594 (as was pretended) with confined air ; while the last two distinguished anatomists favoured the public with the first very accurate description of the parts composing the labyrinth, especially the semicircular canals. In 17G3, the French Academy of Surgery offered a prize for the best essay on diseases of the ear, and two years afterwards, the honour was adjudged to that of Leschevin, senior surgeon of the hospital at Rouen. This meraior is still of great value, few modern treatises being more complete. The most useful contributors to our stock of information on the patholog}' of the ear, subsequently to M. Leschevin, have been Kritter, and Lenten {Ueber das ncJiivere Gehoer, Leipz. 1794); Tranipel [Arnemann's Magaz. b. ii. 1798); Pfingsten [^Vieljahrige Erfahnmg ueber die Ge- hoerfehler, Kiel, 1802); Alard {Sur le Catarrlie de L'Oreille, 8vo. Paris, 1807, edit. 2); Sir A. Cooper {PMl. Trans. 1802); Portal {Aiiat. Med. 1803); J. C. Saunders {Anat. and Dis. of the Ear, 1806) ; Boyer {Mai. Chir. t. vi.) ; Itard {TraUg des Mai. de I'Oreille, 8vo. 2 tomes) ; Saissj^, in an essay, which received the approbation of the Medi- cal Society of Bordeaux ; Rosenthal in a short, but sensible tract on the pathology of the ear (see Journ. Complem. t. vi. 1820) ; and Kramer in a treatise recently published. [The works of Mr. Pilcher, the Anatomy, Economy, and Diseases of the Ear; that of Mr. Wilde, Ajiral Surgery; and of Mr. Toynbee, the Diseases of tlie Ear, their Na- ture, Diagnosis, and Treatment, have added much to our knowledge of aural pathology and surgery.] Notwithstanding the laudable endeavours of 60 many men of eminence, the pathology of the internal ear, and the treatment of its diseases, are far, I may say, very far from a high state of im- provement. To further advances, indeed, some discouraging obstacles present themselves: the auditory apparatus is extremely complicated ; the most important parts of it are entirely out of the reach of ocular inspection : the anatomy of the organ is perhaps not yet completely unravelled ; the exact uses and action of several parts of it, anatomically known, are still involved in mystery; the opportunities of dissecting the ear in a state of disease are neither frequent, nor duly watched; and even when they are taken, and when vestiges of disease or imperfection are traced to particular parts of the organ, the utmost difficulty is expe- lienced in drawing any useful practical conclusion, because the natural uses of those parts, and the precise manner in which the}"- contribute to the perfection of the ear, are not known to the most enlightened physiologists. We are here nearly in the same helpless dilemma as a watchmaker ■would be, were he in examining the interior of a watch, to find parts broken and out of order, the exact uses of which, in the perfection of the in- strument, he had not first studied and compre- hended. In fact, the physiology of the ear is but imperfectly understood ; and, as Rosenthal re- marks (./ourn. Complem. t. vi. p. 17), if, not- withstanding the progress made in optics, and the complete knowledge of the structure of the eye, a perfect explanation has not yet been given of the phenomena of this organ, as an instrument of vision, we cannot wonder, that with far more circumscribed information about acoustics, and the greater difficulty of unravelling the structure ' the ear, so little progress should have been of made in the physiology of the latter organ. Were It practicable in acoustics to arrive at that pre- cision and certainty, which would enable us to establish laws in the theory of sound, as fixed as those which relate to light, this void in physiologi- cal science might perhaps be obviated. But Rosen- thai justly argues, that hitherto the approach to perfection has not been made, and this notwith- standing the learned and valuable labours of Culdain. {Almstik. 4to. Leipz. 1802.) Some facts, however, are admitted to be well ascer- tained, and the researches of Autenrieth and Kemer {ReiVs Archiv. fiir die Physiol, t. ix. pp. 313—376) are honourably mentioned ; for, though they only elucidate the function of the conducting part of the ear, they are of unquestion- able importance to the medical practitioner. It is clearly proved, that the difference in the length and breadth of the meatus auditorius, the fornTof the merabraua tympani, and the make of the cavity of the tympanum, modify sound ; that is to saj', that the differences of structiu-e of the auricle and meatus auditorius extenius, which merely receive and concentrate the sonorous undulations,"as these emanate from a vibrating body, can only influence the degree of force, or weakness of the sound; while, on the contrary, the differences of structure in the membrane and cavity of the tympanum are not limited to this effect, but the greater or less tension of the one, and the more or less consider- able capacity of the other, appear to alter in a greater or lesser degree the particular character of the sound. (Journal Complem. t. vi. p. 20.) [We would gladly make honourable mention also of Sir John Herschel and Mr. Wheatstone, whose eluci- dations of the doctrine of sound are likely to throw light upon the physiology of hearing.] 1. Wounds and Defects of tlie external Ear. The external ear, which is a sort of instrument calculated for concentrating the undulations or waves of sound, may be totally cut off, without deafness being the consequence. For a few davs after the loss, the hearing is rather hard ; but the infirmity gradually diminishes, the increased sensi- bility of the auditory nerve compensating for the imperfection of the organic apparatus. (Richerand, Nosogr. Chir. t. ii. p. 122, e'd. 2.) Dr. Hennen saj's, that he has met with a case where the external ear was completely removed by a cannon-shot, and yet the sense of hearing was as acute as ever, (PriuHjiles of Military Surgery, p. 348, ed. 2.) Another case, recorded by Wep- f'er, also proves, that a total loss of the auricle may not cause any material injury of hearing, for the patient of whom he speaks had had the whole of the external ear destroyed by ulceration, and yet could hear as well as before the loss. (Kriltcr and Lentin ubcr das schwere Gehoer, p. 19, Leipz. 1794.) [Mr. Toynbee gives a case in which tlie watch was heard at a normal distance on both sides after the removal of the ears.] However, if we are to credit the statement of other writers, the recovery is generally far less complete. Tlius Leschevin notices, that they who have lost the external ear, or have it naturally too flat, or ill-shaped, have the liearing loss fine. The defect can only be renieilicd by an artificial ear, or an ear-trumpet, which, receiving a large quantity of the sonorous undulations, and directing them towards the meatus auditorius, thus