]26 ANASTOMOSIS. for tbeir nutrition. At least this inference ia safely deducible from the very memorable operation to which I have referred, subject to one impor- tant condition, viz. ;that there be no additional cause of impediment to the passage of blood to the lower extremities, beside the ligature above the bifurcation of the aorta. When Sir A. Cooper tied the human aorta in the abdomen, the experiment was made as the only possible means of hindering a man from bleeding to death, who had a large aneurism of the external iliac artery actually beginning to bleed, and extending too high to admit of anything else being done. Now, although the unfortunate patient was not saved, and it must be acknowledged that the chances of any other result were very small, the case fur- nished the important proof, that if the abdominal aorta be suddenly and completely obstructed, the blood may yet pass in adequate quantity to the lower extremities, provided there exist no other cause of impediment to the passage of the blood into those members ; for on the side occupied by the aneurism the circulation in the limb was stopped, while in the opposite limb the circulation and natural warmth were preserved. To this subject I shall hereafter return. (See Aorta.) The changes which take place in the arterial system of the limb, when the main artery is rendered impervious by the application of a ligature, are well described by Mr. Hodgson : " The blood meeting with an obstacle to its progress through the accustomed channel, ia thrown in greater quan- tity and with greater force into those branches which arise above the seat of the obstruction. The ramifications of these branches, in consequence of the unusual influx of blood, undergo a remarkable dilatation; the more minute vessels also, by which they anastomose with corresponding ramifications, arising from branches given oif below the obstruc- tion, are from the same cause sufficiently enlarged to allow a free passage of the blood into the in- ferior trunks of the limb. At first the circulation is in this manner carried on through a congeries of minute anastomosing arteries : in a short time a few of these channels become more enlarged than the rest: as these increase in size, the smaller vessels gradually collapse, and ultimately a few large communications constitute permanent channels through which the blood is transmitted to the parts that it is destined to supply. This is one mode by which a collateral circulation is established." " But in some situations more direct and os- tensible inosculations are provided ; so that when one channel is obstnicted, the blood passes through the other in a sufficient stream for the nourish- ment of the part which it is destined to supply. Under these circumstances no dilatation of the collateral branches is necessary : the circulation in such instances may be said to be constantly carried on through inosculating trunks. These great communications principally exist in the ex- tremities of tlic body where the dilating impulse whicli the blood receives from the heart is of course diminished. Tiius tlic radial artery in- osculates freely with the ulnar; the anterior witli the posterior tibial; and the internal carotid with the vertebral arteries. Two modes, therofdrc, exist, by which arteries communicate with each other' the anostomoses of minute ramifications and the direct inosculations of trunks." (See I-Iodq^o,,, On Dis. of Arteries and Veins, p. 231.) [It may be as well to remark that when the circulation is carried on by anastomosing branches after the obliteration of the main artery of a part, the current of llie blood will be reversed in tlie branches which are connected to the main artery on the distal side of the obliteration, and which are to convey blood into it. After the lapse of some months the anastomosing vessels which have taken upon themselves the office of the principal artery, not only become enlarged, but assume a tortuous disposition, and a pulsation may be de- tected in them long before any can be felt in the principal arteries on their distal side. Indeed, the pulsation of the main arteries may remain scarcely perceptible for years after the application of a ligature. Although it appears to be fully established that the circulation of the blood may be effectually carried on by tlie anastomosing branches after a ligature has been applied to a main artery in any part of its course, yet it may be well for the scientific surgeon to bear in mind that great diffe- rences exist as to the number and size of these anastomosing vessels indifferent parts of the body. To such an extent is this the case, that a ligature applied to a main artery in some positions will be ineffectual in arresting hemorrhage, or perhaps even in curing an aneurism, while in other posi- tions the anatomosing branches may be so few and small as to be scarcely adequate under particular local or constitutional circumstances to maintain the vitality of tlie limb. My attention was for- cibly drawn to this subject many years ago, when house surgeon at the Lock Hospital. Having been fortunate enough to procure for dissection the body of a person who had died in that insti- tution without friends, I was desirous of ob- taining a minute injection of the blood-vessels of the left side of the head and neck, and of the left upper extremity. With this object in view, an injecting pipe was placed in the aorta, close to the heart; firm ligatures were applied to the descending thoracic aorta and to the arteria inno- minata. It was expected by these arrangements that the injection would be prevented passing into the right arm and right side of the liead and neck. The next day, however, on removing the right arm from the body, it was found that its blond vessels, as well as those of the right side of the head and neck, were minutely injected. It was concluded that the ligatiae on the arteria innominata must have given way. On examining the vessel and the ligature, however, all was perfoctl}- secure. It was now at once seen that the injection con- tained in the right arm and right side of the head and neck must have passed through the circle of AVillis, and thus have been conveyed, contrary to the usual course of the circulation, by the right carotid into the innominate artery, and by the right vertebral into the subclavian. I have ever since had my doubts whether a ligature applied to the arteria innominata alone would bo found to interrupt the circulation sufliciently either to cure f . . , 1 :., s„l,. an aneurism, or to arrest hemorrhage in clavian or carotid arteries of the right side. At any rate, I should expect the circulation to be too free to admit of a coagulum forming on the distal side of the ligature, an occurrence so nece3S.nj to prevent secondary hemorrhage on the sepa- ration of the ligature. On this account, should i ever be called upon to tie the innominate artery