EMPHYSEMA wounded lung ; and, of course, facilitntoa the heal- ing of the wound, which would be prevented by the constnnt transmission of air. Its early appli- cation, therefore, will often prevent a very trou- blesome symptom, whilst, at the same time, by keeping the fractured bones from motion, it greatly lessens the sufferings of the patient." {Abernethfs Surgical JTorfe, vol. ii. p. 179.) When emphy- sema is complicated with a fractured rib, the latter injury is unquestionably a reason in favour of a bandage. But, whether the pressure of the roller will be useful, or hurtful, with respect to the emphysema itself, or the state of the lungs and respiration, may be questionable. As for its tendency to resist the diffusion of air in the cellular tissue, this circumstance does not appear to me important; because the air, thus diffused, much as it disfigures the patient, is nearly harmless, at least so long as the pleural cavities, and the inter- lobular texture of the lungs, remain uninflated ; a danger, also, which no bandaging has any tend- ency to prevent. Neither will a bandage have so much effect in hindering the diffusion of air as scarifications, with this important additional consideration, that punctures, or small incisions, made over the broken rib, prevent the spreading of the air, by letting it escape, while a bandage can only do so by more or less resisting its escape from the cavity of the pleura; which mode of operation in some cases would dangerously inter- fere with the continuation of respiration by the lung of the opposite side. At the same time, I believe, that when the air extrav.asated within the injured side of the chest is not in such quantity as to oppress the sound lung, and a rib is broken, a bandage will generally afford great relief. Indeed, it is but justice to Mr. Abernethy to state, that he does not recommend the employment of a bandage in all cases of emphysema, " Patients (says he) will not always be able to wear a bandage, when one lung is collapsed, particularly if any previous disease has existed in the other, as it equally con- fines the motions of the ribs on both sides, and as every possible enlargement of the chest becomes necessary for the due admission of the air into the lung, which still executes its functions. Under these circumstances, if the emphysema continues (and its continuance must always denote that the wound in the lung is not closed), I should esteem it the best practice to make a small opening into the chest, so that the external air might have a free communication with that cavity ; and then the injured lung must remain motionless till its woimd is healed, and the mediastinum will, in every state of the thorax, preserve its natural situation." {Abernethy, vol. cit. p. 183.) In the case recorded by Cheston, the patient on having a compress and bandage applied, exclaimed that he could not endure it. When emphysema was combined with a frac- tured rib, and not any urgent compression of the lungs by air in the cavity of the pleura, Dupu}'- tren used to bleed, apply to the injured side com- presses wetted with a resolvent lotion, and then surround the chest with a bandage, so as to suspend the action of the external muscles of respiration, and oblige the patient to breathe entirely by the diaphragm, the principle insisted upon by Aber- nethy. In this manner the union of the fracture was promoted, and, as was believed, the causes of empliysema opposed. The possibility of a person breathmg wliolly by the diaphragm seemed proved to Dupuytren by what happens in injuries of th<' upper part of the spinal chord, when all the exter- nal muscles are struck with paralysis. (C/iV;. Chir 1.1. p. 115.) When, however, the respiration was dangerously mterrupted by the accumulation of air m the pleura, Dupuytren abstained from applying a bandage, which he conceived to be only likely to augment the patient's sufferings. (See Clin. Chir t. i. p. 117.) The utility of a free incision, and scarifications, IS well illustrated in a case recorded by Larre}'. The emphysema arose from a wound of the lungs' by a lance. The whole body was prodigiously swelled ; the integuments so distended that the limbs were inflexible, the eyes buried ; and the lips so enlarged that nothing could be introduced into the mouth. The pulse and respiration were scarcely perceptible, and the voice feeble and in- terrupted. The lance had entered obliquely under the lower angle of the scapula ; and though the external and internal orifices of the wound were not parallel, the surgeon had applied adhesive straps, and closed the external one. Hence the air, as it escaped from the lungs, distended the cellular tissue. Larrey immediately removed the dressings ; and, with a bistoury, made the openings in the pleura and skin parallel. Cupping glasses were then applied over the wound, and quickly filled with air and blood. The lips of the wound were now brought together, and kept so with a suitable bandage. Cupping glasses and scarifica- tors were applied to various parts of the bodv, and, in others, incisions were made with a scalpel. The patient recovered. (See Mem. de Cldr. Mili- iaire, t. iv.) In emphysema, dependent upon over distension and rupture of the air cells, and the escape of air into the interlobular tissue of the lungs, and thence through the mediastinum, into the common cellular tissue, the best practice is that of diminishing the violence of the respiratory efforts, by which the air is forced at each respiration into the mediasti- num. With this view, copious venesection should be employed, for the double purpose of relieving the pulmonary congestion, and of diminishing the mass of circulating fluid ; for, by lessening the quantity of blood for oxygenation, we also lessen the necessity for taking in so large a supply of air for the purpose, and, in the same proportion, diminish the efforts made by the muscles of respir- ation to dilate and contract the thorax. Opiates should be employed with the same intent ; and the antiphlogistic regimen enforced. (See Totciis- erui in Cydnp. of Frac. Mediciiic, art. Emphy- sema ; and Laeimcc, On Dis. of the Chest, ed. by Forbes.) Emphysema has been known to arise from the bursting of a vomica, and ulceration of the surface of the lungs ; but the air which escapes cannot pass into the cavity of the thorax, because the in- itammation which precedes the abscess and ulcer- ation of the air-cells closes those which are adjacent, and produces an adhesion of the edges of the vomica, or ulcer, to the inner surface of the chest, so as entirely to separate the two cavities. Palfyn and Dr. Hunter met with cases, in which em- physema originated from abscesses of the lung.', attended with adhesion to the pleura and ulcer- ations in the situation of such adhesion. In these instances, the pus having made its way through