1011 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 3 T 2 completely denuded, in the midst of the ravages of the distemper, yet not giving way. I have seen the same thing frequently exemplified in merciu'ial phagedfena, as well in the groin as in the arm. As for the smaller arteries, they are quickly de- stroyed, together with other parts. " In some rare cases (says Dr. Plennen) I have seen the femoral and axillary arteries pulsating awfull)^ and apparently unaffected with disease; while all the surrounding parts were completely destroyed; but in a vast majority of cases, the blood-vessels partook of the general disease in which they were imbedded. They were not only completely separated from their natural con- nections, but their coats sloughed away at tlie immediate point of disease, while the disposition extended far beyond the apparently affected spot. Hence our ligatures but too often failed on the main branches, and any attempt on the smaller was invariably injurious. We were here natu- rally induced to tie the artery considerably above the seat of the disease; and this was done once on the femoral, and twice on the axillary artery be- low the clavicle. The former burst on the third, each of the latter on the second day afterwards." Dr. Hennen further remarks that, in general, the great vessels sloughed long after the acute symp- toms of the disease had abated, and that, in severe cases, the eleventh day of the disease was always dreaded. {On Military Surgery, p. 221, ed. 2.) The indisposition of the large vessels to close, when taken up in the common way, appears re- ferrible to three causes: viz. the tendency to rapid ulceration in the arteries in the situation of the ligatures; the formation of no effectual coagulum in the extremity of the vessel, like what happens in other cases of mortification; and the general incapacity of nature in examples of hospital gan- grene to establish any process which can be ac- companied with healthy adhesive inflammation. In the last stage of the disease, as it occurred in the military hospitals at Bilboa, the surface of the sore was constantly covered with a bloody oozing, and, on lifting up the edge of the flabby slough, the probe was tinged with dark-coloured grumous blood, with which also its track became immediately filled. Repeated and copious venous bleedings now came on, which rapidly carried off the patient. The sloughs, whether they fell off spontaneously, or were detached by art. Were quickly succeeded by others, and brought into view thickly-studded specks of arterial blood. At length, an artery gave way, which was generally torn through in the attempt to secure it with a ligature. The tourniquet, or other pressure, was now applied, but in vain ; for while it checked the bleeding, it accelerated the death of the limb, which became frightfully swelled and horribly foetid. Incessant retchings came on, and with coma, involuntary stools, and hiccough, closed the scene. Often, however, the patient survived this acute state of the disease, and sank under severe irritation, absorption of putrid matter, and extensive loss of substance, with common hectic symptoms. (See Hennen s Mil. Suryery, p. 217, ed. 2.) In the disease at Bilboa, the skin and cellular substance seemed to be the parts originally and principally affected. This, says Dr. Hennen, was obvious, even in the living body; but, on dissection, the disease of these parts was frequently observed to spread much further than external appearances indicated, as a diseased track was often found running up into the groin, or axilla, and completely dissecting the muscles and great vessels. {On Military Surgery, p. 219, ed. 2.) When the disease had occupied the outside of the chest, the same gentleman found the lungs in two cases, and the pericardium in a third, covered with gangrenous spots ; and when the parietes of the abdomen had been attacked, he often observed the same appearances on the liver (p. 220). The disease varies considerably in its severity in different cases, being sometimes of small extent, and even capable almost of a spontaneous cure. Patients have been known to continue afflicted more than a month; and when the duration of the disease was thus lengthened, the cases almost alwaj's had a fatal termination. In a few cases the wound puts on a favourable appearance again between the sixth and ninth days; and, in slight examples, the amendment is manifested between the third and fifth. Whatever may be the period of the complaint, its wished-for termination is always announced by a diminution of pain; the pus acquiring a white colour, and more consistence, and losing its fostid nauseous smell. The edges of the ulcer subside, whUe its surface becomes less irregular, and puts on more of the vermilion colour. The red, purplish, oedematous circle, which sur- rounds the disease, assumes a true inflammatory nature; and the solution of continuity, restored to a simple state, heals up with tolerable quick- ness, even when the destruction of soft parts is somewhat considerable, unless any fresh untoward circumstances occur to interrupt cicatrisation. But sometimes, when the patient is on the point of being completely well again, his condition is sud- denly altered for the worse; ulcerated spots make their appearance on the cicatrix, and these spread- ing in different directions occasion a relapse, which may happen several times. According to Dr. Boggie, a relapse, and even repeated relapses, are very common, as his own experience fully convinced him; and he adverts to a case reported by Dr. Hennen, in which the patient survived twelve different attacks, and sunk under the thirteenth. (See Edinb. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iii. p. 8.) So far as the observations of Dr. Boggie went, hospital gangrene was more frequent and severe in hot weather than cold. (See Edinb. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iii. p. 13.) From numerous cases of this disease, seen by Mr. Blackadder at Passages, in Spain, he drew the following conclusions:— 1. That the morbid action could almost always be detected in the wound, or sore, previously to t/ie occurrence of any constitutional affection. 2. That in several instances the constitution did not become affected, until some considerable time after the disease had manifested itself in the sore. 3. That when the disease was situated on the inferior extremities, the lymphatic vessels, and glands in the groin, were observed to be in a state of irritation, giving pain on pressure, and were sometimes enlarged, before the constitution showed evident marks of derangement. 4. Ti)at the constitutional affection, though sometimes irregular, was in many cases contem- porary with the second, or inflammatory stage. 5. That all parts of the body were equally liable to become affected with this disease.