lation must be beneficial to the health, in this, as the fever of a bilious character. In the eivrly stage in every other species of gangrene ; and, on this principle, it must be serviceable in diminishing the severity, if not the frequency and extent of the disease, as I am myself disposed to believe from the consideration of all the evidence adduced. These observations are strengthened by the fact, that it was chiefly in the foul wards of St. Bartho- lomew's Hospital that the disorder committed its ravages in that institution.' (See Med. Chir. Trans. vol. xi, p. 365.) Where circumstances will per- mit, an entire removal of the patients from the place in which the disease has either had its first formation, or spread to any extent, appears like- wise to be a most beneficial measure. But when this change of the wards or hospital is impracti- cable, the air which the patients breathe should be purified, by renewing it as much as possible, fixing ventilators, and especially by using the oxy- genated muriatic acid fumigations, as recommended by Guyton-Morveau, or else those of the nitric acid. The nitric acid chlorine fumigations are made by putting into a glass vessel, on the groimd, half an ounce of concentrated sulphuric acid, to whicli an equal quantity of nitre is to be added gradaUm. The mixture is to be stirred with a glass tube, when an abundance of white vapour will be produced. The oxygenated muriatic acid (chlorine) fumiga- tions are made by mixing three ounces two drachms of common salt with five drachms of the black oxide of manganese in powder. These two ingredients are to be triturated together ; they are then to be put into a glass vessel; one ounce two drachms of water are to be added, and then, if the ward or chamber be uninhabited, one ounce seven drachms of sulphuric acid are to be poured upon the mixture all at once; or gradually if the patients are there. This quantity will be sufficient for a very large ward. With regard to internal medicines, while irri- tation and febrile heat accompany hospital gan- grene, diluent acid drinks arc proper, such as nitrated whey sweetened with syrup of violets, le- monade, &c. How different these sentiments are from those of Dr. Hennen who, in speaking of the eft'ects of venesection, when the disorder was accompanied with an inflammatory diathesis, employs the fol- lowing expressions ; " The very patients them- selves implored the use of the lancet." For several months "we used no other remedj"-, either as a cure or preventive."—" Wc never observed any of the lancet-wounds assume a gangrenous ap- pearance, although previously, in almost every other instance, the slightest puncture festered." {On Military Surgery, p. 224, ed. 2.) In the beginning of the constitutional attack, Pouteau and Dussassoy particularly recommended emetics; and Mr. Briggs, Dr. J. Thomson, and Dr. Hennen, are all advocates for this practice, though the latter gentleman makes his evidence rather ambiguous, by a subjoined note, in which he mentions that want of success, &c. led to the trial of venesection. (Op. cit. 222.) As for Mr. Blackadder, he deems the employment of emetics at the couimencement of hospital gangrene useful only when the stomach is foul. {On Phage.dwna Gaiigrcenosa, p. 134.) Dr. Boggio found emetics generally very inferior to purgatives. {Edinb. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iii. p. 37.) Ho chiefly approves of them when the stomach is loaded, and HOSPITAL GANGKENB. 1019 of the case, writers seem all to agree about the utility of purgative and laxative medicines. When there is debility, good generous wine should be allowed, either by itself, or mixed with lemonade, according to circumstances. Bark is in general more hurtful than useful: Mr. Welbank objects to it generally on account of the common disposi- tion to diarrhoea in the advanced stages of the dis- ease {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi. p. 368) ; and Dr. Hennen assures us that he has seen great harm done by large and injudicious doses of this drug, before full evacuations had taken place, and the sloughs begun to separate. Boyer allows, how- ever, that it may be beneficially given, when the feverish heat has abated, and the debility is very great. In all stages of this disease, unattended with diarrhoea, acids are proper. The sulphuric acid is that which is given with most success ; but the acidulous tartrate of potassa is also an excellent medicine. From two drachms to half an ounce may be given every day, and the best plan is to make an acid drink with it, which should be sweetened and strained. In severe cases, attended with a quick and feeble pulse, depression, restlessness, and anxiety, an opiate becomes necessary'. " So long as we wish to excite a degree of moisture on the skin (says Professor Thomson), Dover's powder, or laudanum with antimonial wine, form in general the best opiates." This gentleman, however, is not an ad- vocate for the employment of opium, in the early stage of hospital gangrene, while the heat and other febrile symptoms are at their height. (See Lectures on Inflammation, p. 494, 495.) According to Mr. Welbank's experience, narcotics are beneficial, and he has seen a most irritable state of the stomach improve rapidly, and a foul furred tongue become clean, on the administration of large doses of opium at regular intervals. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi. p. 368.) Camphor, in large andfrequent doses, was highly praised by Pouteau. " I was told by several of the French surgeons (says a late visitor to Paris), that they did not rely at all on internal means for stopping the progress of hospital gangrene, and that their experience had proved them to be insufficient, if not wholly ineffi- cacious. Dupuytren, in reply to the account I gave him of the practice and opinions of English surgeons on this subject, assured me that he had no confidence in any but local applications, and that internal remedies alone, as far as he had found, did almost nothing." The same remark has been made in a modern publication on hospital gangrene {Delpeeh, M£m. sur la Complicalion des Plaies, cfcc. 181.5), " although it seems to be rather at variance with its being a constitutional and contagious dis- ease, which the author has admitted." (See Sketches of the Medical Schools of Paris, by J. G. Crosse, p. 83.) Perhaps every antiseptic application that can be mentioned, has been tried as a dressing for wounds or ulcers affected with hospital gangrene. Dussasso)' was convinced, by the observation of numerous cases, that the best application is powder of hark. He recommends the wound to be cov- ered with several layers of this powder, which are then to be moistened witli turpentine. When this composition dries, he asserts that it forms a fragile sort of coat, at the sides of whicli,