16 ABSORPTION. formed by every animal tissue, hj virtue of its physical properties. _ _ In tlic second place, there is the emaciation ot the whole body in illness ; or the removal or shrink- ing of parts rendered useless in the course of nature, as the ductus arteriosus and membrana pupillaris ; the formation in the fcEtus of the aper- tures of the eyelids, mouth, and rectum ; and the decay of certain organs under conditions of disease ; as, for example, the withering of the mus- cles of a limb which is paralysed; or of certain sets of muscles whose nerve is diseased, as happens sometimes after sciatica. This class of instances oueht rather to be designated instances of atroph;/ than of absorption. For it does not happen that the withered parts are absorbed to an extraor- dinary degree, but that being wasted in the ordi- nary course of nature, they are not replaced. Just as a house may crumble away under the action of the elements, if never repaired, although no active steps be taken to pull it down. In this class, as in the preceding, there is no evidence that the lymphatic or absorbent vessels are in any way concerned. . , 4s a third class of instances of absorption, we ma'v take the cases in which, not a natural struc- ture, but a deposit or exudation liquid or solid, caused by disease, is removed. For example, the exudation which closes the pupil in iritis, or fills the pleura after inflammation ; or a common extra- vasation of blood in consequence of a b™se. in the case of a morbid exudation, the first condition necessary for its absorption is, that the blood shall " To;gIr be loaded with the materials out of which it is formed ; that the gouty or syph, itic or hyperinotic crasis, as the case maj-be, shal be extinguished. The second is, that the exudation be not of a sort endowed with independent vi alitj and power of growth ; that it be not developed into permanent'tissue. If those two conditions be obtained — if, for example, the source of a pleuritic Sai be'eliminateJ, before the exuded matter has passed into the permanent form o areolar t ssue, the morbid deposit will most likely waste of its own accord. If, as in the case ot cancer, both the blood continues to supply morbid material and the morbid exudation, where deposited, grows andpropagatesitself ofitsowninherentforce, b^^^^ will be little hope of disappearance by ab jpt. The instance of extravasated blood o ght rathei- to come under the head of absorption of foreign matters, for it follows the same laws, ihe serum is first absorbed ; then the blood corpuscles are broken down, and the colouring matter dis- persed in the interstices of the tissues, which im- bibe it ; and there it is gradually removed by means of the incessant interchange which is going on between the fluids in the blood-vessels, and those in the inter-vascular spaces, by which the blood is, as it were, after a short time washed out. Tn this third class of cases, as in the preceding, there is no evidence that the lymphatic system takes any share in the absorption. The fourth class of cases, is one of those which miv be called active absorption, and includes the operations of the lacteals and lymphatics. As our mirnosc is surgical and not physiologica , we cannot Si at length into the nature of their functions, : tto the%arious disputations of^vbci those functions have been the subject ' that whilst every part of the alimentarj canal has the power of absorbing some nutritive liquids — soup and wine for example, ma)' be absorbed by mouth and rectum—the lacteal vessels seem to seek and absorb some special elements; that these are important, is evident from the ill eifccts which ensue if they are intercepted by disease. What precise elements they are, which the lacteals select to the exclusion of others, we know not; neither do we know the earliest steps of the process. We do not exactly know, for instance, the mechanism by which they select chyle from the contents of the intestines. The brothers Goodsir, in their very able and interesting Anatomical and Patltological Observ- ations (Edinburgh, 1845, p. 8, et seq.), state that the terminal loops of the lacteals, in the villi of the intestines, are surrounded by a crowd of minute cells ; and on this fact they built up a very ingenious theory, in reference to absorption in health and disease ; —in, which the enthusiasm with which the new cell-doctrines were embraced, is apparent. They believe that these cells have the power of attracting certain matters from the contents of the intestines ; and that when filled they burst and discharge their contents around the looped extre- mities of the lacteals, by which they are absorbed. " Not only are cells," they say, " the germs of all the tissues, but they are also the immediate agents of secretion. A primitive cell absorbs from the blood in the capillaries, the matters necessary to enable it to form, in one set of instances, nerve, muscle, bone, if nutrition be its function ; milk, bile, urine, in another set of instances, if secretion be the duty assigned to it. The only difference between the two functions being, that in the first, the cell dissolves, disappears among ihe iexlnres, after having performed its part ; in the other it dissolves, disappears, and throws out its contents on a free surface. Now, it will be perceived that before a cell can perform its function as a nutritive cell, or as a secreting cell, it must have acted as an absorbing cell. This absorption, too, must ne- cessarily be of a peculiar and specific nature, it is in virtue of it, that the nutritive cell selects and absorbs from the liquor sanguinis, those parts ot the latter necessary for building up the peculiar texture of which the cell is the germ. It is in virtue of this peculiar force, that the secreting cell not only detects and absorbs, but also m some in- stances elaborates from the same common material, the pai-ticular secretion of which it is the imme- diate organ. A7id it is by ihe same force that ihe cell becomes Ihe immediate agent of absorption tn cer- tain morbid processes."'' _ From the foregoing passage, it will appear that the Goodsirs attributed to cells the power of absorbing materials from the intestines which materials, by their bursting when npe, tluo'd s- charsed nto the interstices of the roots of the S s, whence absorption by the acteals took Plate afterwards. They believed further tha £ was not only a type of the of-J in nutrition, secretion, and absorption, bu tha processes o diseased absorption were eftected m the sa ne way. To this last point we sha return D esen v-o«r present purpose is with the func- C of the lactei and lymphatics so far as they illustrate any part of surgical pathology. Whatever may be the interpreta .on o he origin of the lacteal vessels, the nature of the