FRACTURE. nre remnants of tl.e intermediate substance. Botli arthrodial form, have an analogue in the lateral new joints sometimes found betweeen the masses ot callus which are thrown out around two adjoin- ing fractured bones. In the fore-arm and leg, and between the ribs, for instance, new joints are some- times met with between the masses of callus after fractures have united." {Rokitanshg, Patholog Anai. vol. iii. p. 216, Sydenham Society's Trans- lahon.y] A false joint in the arm, or fore-arm, does not absolutely prevent the motion of the limb, which may yet be of considerable use ; but, when the disease is in the thigh or leg, the member cannot support the weight of the bodjr, and the patient is unable to walk ^vithout crutches. The diversity of causes which may be con- cerned m preventing the union of fractures, plainly shows that the treatment should be dif- ferent in different cases. When the want of union is ascribable to the ends of the fracture not being in a state of coap- tation, and to their having been moved about too frequently, the obvious indications are, to set the fracture better, and to take adequate measures for keeping its extremities in contact and perfectly motionless. " If the union has been prevented by a portion of muscle, or other soft part, getting between tUe ends of the bone, the only means of affording a chance of union would be cutting through the integuments, removing the displaced soft "parts and placing the ends of the bone in contact.' {Wardro2^, in Med. Chit: Trans, vol. v. p. 363.) When the advanced age of the patient seems to be the cause of the union not taking place, the application of the proper apparatus is to be' continued a considerable time, since experience proves that in old subjects the cure of fractures often requires many months. In such examples, also, tonic and cordial medicines, with a nutritive diet, are highly proper. Anything in the state of the constitution likely to account for the want of union should be re- moved or rectified. " One patient may require to be put upon a better diet; another may require purgative medicine ; another may stand in need of tonics. Mr. Wilson used to relate the case of a woman who was a dram-drinker, and who broke her leg. At first she was not allowed to take her customary drams, and the bones showed no dis- position to unite. At last, she was allowed to take a certain quantity of spirit, and union took place immediately." {Brodie, op. et vol. cit. p. 58.) When several months have elapsed since the accident, and there is reason to apprehend that a preternatural joint or a ligamentous union has taken place, a variety of local plans have been proposed. Here I may remark that no severe operation will^ be justifiable, nuless the inconvenience, arising from the want of bony union, be consi- aerable. If a broken rib were not to unite, by osseous matter, it would be of little consequence. J- opened an old man who was in this state, yet lie had never complained of it, nor indeed had he ever been aware of it. Sir lionjaiuin Brodie has specimen of a joint, formed in a rib after suffered little or no inconvenience from it. ("See Load. Med. Gaz. for 1833-34, p. 5y ) The most ancient method of treatment is thaf of forcibly rubbmg the ends of the fracture against' each other, so as to make them inflame, and take on a disposition to form callus. This plan was re- commended by Hunter, and has had the approba- tion of many other distinguished modern practi- tioners In a disunited fracture of the leg or th.gh, Mr. Hunter used to let the patient get up and attempt to walk with the splints on the limb so that the requisite irritation might be produced! Ihe Idea of exciting a degree of inflammation in the situation of the fracture, certainly appears rational, and the practice has been attended with a degree of success. Mr. White records an example, m winch he cured a broken thigh on this principle a, strong leather case having been made for the imb. {Cases in Surgery, p. 75.) A broken tibia, treated on'similar principles, is mentioned by Mr Amesburj'. {On Frachires, 211, n.) The method IS spoken of in Celsus : si veiusias occitpavU membriim extendondmn est vt aliquid Iccdaiur : ossa inter se manu dimovenda, ut concurrendo exa?pe- reniicr, el ut si quid pingue .est, eradaiur, totumque id quasi recensfiat, ^c. I have seen cases in which the union was thus brought about. In numerous instances (saj-s Sir Benjamin Brodie), I have known patients in the hospital kept in bed for ten weeks, and even longer, without union taking place. A splint has then been bound on each side of the limb ; we have put the patient on crutches, made him walk about, put the hmb to the ground, and exercise it with the splint on, and the fracture has become united. Then in other cases I have applied blisters to fractures which were slow in uniting:" but, [if this method is to be useful, it must be tried in ' eight or ten weeks after tlie accident. (Brodie in Med. Gaz. for 1833-34, p. 58.) The foregoing treatment, however, isonlylikely to answer before a new joint, or a ligamentous connection, has been completely formed, and when the limb has hitherto been kept motionless. When the case is old, and there are groundsior believing that a new articulation, or ligamentous connection, has taken place, we are advised to cut down to the ends of the bone, rasp or saw thcin off, and then treat the limb just as if the case were a recent compound fracture. Sir fiveiard Home used to mention the case of a man with ununited fracture of the humerus, who was under Mr. Hunter's care. There was an arti- ficial joint, and Mr. Hunter made an incision into ,. ' " iunuL-u ill a riu alter uacture ; and thc_ patient was believed to have t, and then having introduced a spatula, he irritated the whole surface of the artificial joint. 'J'his brought on considerable inllamniation, which ended in ankylosis, and the patient was cured. (SirB. Brodie, in Med. Gaz. for 1833-34, p. 58.) This bold practice was first suggested by Mr. C. AMiite. " Robert Elliott, of Kyham, in Derby- shire, a very healthful boy, nine years old, had the misfortune, about Midsummer, in the year 1759, by a fall, to fracture the humerus, near the middle of the bone. He was immediately taken to a bone-setter in that neighbourhood, who ap- plied a bandage and splints to his arm, and treated him as properly," snys Mr. White, " as I suppose he was capable of, for two or tliree mouths. His endcjivours, however, wore by no means productive of the desired effect, the bones not being at all