701 FRACTURE. united. A surgeon nf eminence, in Bakewell, iwas afterwards called in ; but as lie soon found he could be of no service to liira, and as the case was very curious, he advised the lad's friends to send him to the infirmary at Manchester. He was ac- cordingly brought thither the Christmas following, iind admitted an in-patient. "Upon examination, ■we found it to be a simple oblique fracture, and that the ends of the bone rode over each other ; his arm was become not only entirely useless, but even a burden to him, .and not likely to be other- wise, as there was little probability that it could ever unite, it being now six months since the accident happened. "Amputation was therefore proposed as the . only method of relief: but I could not give my consent to it, for as the boy was young, and had a good constitution, it was hardly possible that it could be owing to any fault in the solids or fluids, ' but that either nature was disappointed in her work : by frequent friction, while the callus was forming, or rather that the oblique ends of the bone, being ■ sharp, had divided a part of a muscle, and some ; portion of it had probably insinuated itself betwixt : the two ends of the bone, preventing their union. 'Whichever of these might be the case, I was of opinion," continues Mr. White, " that he might be . relieved by the following operation, viz. by making a longitudinal incision down to the bone, by bring- ing out one of the ends of it, which might be done with great ease, as the arm was fle,\ible, and cutting it off, either by the saw or cutting pincers ; then by bringing out the other, and cutting off that likewise, and afterwards by replacing them end to end, and treating the whole as a compound frac- ture. " The objections, made by the other gentlemen concerned, to this proposal, were, first, the danger of wounding the humeral artery by the knife ; secondly, the laceration of the artery by bringing out the ends of the bones ; and thirdly, that we had no authority for such an operation. As to the first, that was easily obviated, by making the in- cision on the side of the arm opposite to the hume- ral artery. The place of election appeared to me to be at the external and lower edge of the deltoid muscle, as the fracture was very near to the inser- tion of that muscle into the humerus ; the danger of wounding the vessfcl not only being by that means avoided, but, after the operation, while the patient was confined to his bed, the matter would bo prevented from lodging, and the wound be easily come at, to renew the dressings. The second ol)jcction will not appear to be very great, when we consider that, in compound fractures, the bone is frequently thrust with great violence through the integuments, and seldom attended w'ith laceration t)f any considerable artery ; and as this would be done with great caution, that danger would appear very triflijig. The third and last objection is no more than a general one to all improvements. " 'J'his method which I have been proposing," gays Mr. White, " was at last resolved upon, and I assisted in the operation, which was performed by a gentleman of great abilities in hia profession, on January 3, in the present year (17()0). The patient did not loso above a spoonful of blood in the operation, tiiongh the tourniquet was not made use of. When the operation and dressings were finished, the limb was placed in a fracture box, contrived on purpose, the lad confined to his bed, and the rest of the treatment was nothing different from that of a compound fracture. " The wound was nearly healed in a fortnight's time, when an erysipelas came on, and spread it- self all over the iirm, attended with some degree of swelling : this, by fomentations, and the antiphlo- gistic method, soon went off, and the cure pro- ceeded happilj', without any other interruption. In about six weeks after the operation, the callus began to form, and is now quite firm. The arm is as long as the other, but somewhat smaller, in consequence of such long-continued bandages : he daily acquires strength in it, and will soon be fit to be discharged." {Cases in Surgery, p. 60, &c.) In another instance of a broken tibia, which continued disunited an extraordinary length of time, Mr. White practised an operation, somewhat similar to the foregoing one, with complete success. He made a longitudinal incision, about four inches in length, through the integuments, which covered the fracture. By the application of a trephine, he cut off the upper end of the bone, and as the lower end could not be easily sawn ofl-', he contented himself with scraping it. In the course of the sub- sequent treatment, he had occasion to take off, with the cutting pincers, a small angle of tibia, and to touch the lower part of the bone with the butter of antimony, as well as to introduce the same caustic between the extremities of the frac- ture, in order to destroy a substance which inter- vened. A trifling exfoliation followed. In twelve weeks the bone was firmly united. (Op. cit. p. 01, 82.) Besides Mr. White's case?, there are now some other instances upon record, where the operation, which he first proposed, has succeeded. In the year 1813, Langenbeck operated upon a humerus in the foregoing manner, and the result was perfectly successful. The ununited fracture was situated at the insertion of the deltoid. (A'eiie Bill. b. i. p. 95.) Mr. Rowlands, of Chester, by a similar operation, believed that he had cured a fractiu-ed thigh, which had lost all disposition to unite. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. ii. p. 47.) I understand, however, from Sir Benjamin Brodie, that the subject of this operation lately died, and that on examination of the broken part of the limb, there was no bony union. Viguerie, surgeon to the Hotel-Dieu, at Toulouse, practised Mr. White's operation with success. (See Larrey, Man. de Chir. Mililaire, t. ii. a. 132.) On the other hand, the operation has frequently failed. In the instance in which I saw it exe- cuted on the humerus by Mr. Long, in St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital, it did not answer, though the ends of the bolje were most fairly sawn off, and the case treated with particular care and skill. Boyer states that he once performed the same operation in a similar case; but that it had not the desired effect, [Traila des Mai. Chir. t. iii. p. ] 10.) Dr. Piiysick, of New York, when ho was a student in 178."), saw this proceeding unsuccessfully adopted in a case wliero the humerus remained "disunited. (Sec Medical Hqmsi/ory, vol. i. j\etv I'ork, 1004.) Besides these examples, 1 have heard of others in which Mr. Cline, Mr. Green (AM/. Chirurq. Review, February 1828 ; and Loud. Medical O'azclle,]). 357), and other practitioners tried the experinient with no better success. What is still more discouraging, the ppcration has sometimes proved fatal. {liichcrand, Nosogr. Chir.i.iW, p.