AMPUTATION, 92 {On Gunsliot axilliirjr artery, veins, and nerve, Wounds, p. 274—276.) The plan adopted by Larrey in his latter oponitions, produces a result essentially similar to that just described. Larrey first makes a longitudinal incision from the acromion to about an inch below the neck of the humerus, down to the bone, so as to divide the fleshy part of the del- toid into two even parts. This cut, he says, facili- tates and renders more exact the rest of the operation. From this wound, the incisions for the flaps are continued. Having made the foregoing incision, " I direct an assistant to draw up the skin of the arm towards the shoulder, and I form the anterior and posterior flaps by two oblique strokes of the knife made from within outwards and down- wards, so as to cut through the tendons of the pec- toralis major and latissiraus dorsi. There is no risk of injuring the axillary vessels, as they are out of the reach of the point of the knife. The cellular connections of these two flaps are to be di- vided, and the flaps themselves raised by an assist- ant, who, at the same time, is to compress the two divided circumflex arteries. The whole joint is now exposed. By a third sweep of the knife, carried circularly over the head of the humerus, the capsule and tendons running near the articulation are cut ; and the head of the bone being inclined a little outwards, the knife is to be carried along its posterior part, in order to finish the section of the tendinous and ligamentous attachments in that direction. The assistant now applies his forefingers over the brachial plexus, for the pur- pose of compressing the artery, and commanding the current of blood through it. Lastly, the edge of the knife is turned backwards, and the whole fasciculus of axillary vessels is cut through, on a level with the lower angles of the two flaps, and in front of the assistant's fingers. The patient does not lose a dmp of blood ; and ere the com- pression is remitted, the extremity of the axillary artery is readily seen, taken up with a pair of for- ceps, and tied. The circumflex arteries are next secured, which completes the operation." {Mem. de CIdr. Mil. t. iv. p. 428. Paris, 1817.) Larrey takes no measures in the first stage of the operation for commanding the flow of blood, as the assistant merely presses the axillary artery between his fingers just before it is divided. Larrey affirms, that the above described way of operating is applicable to almost every case met with in military practice. First, because all gunshot wounds, generally, which mutilate the arm, so as to create the necessity for the operation, partly, or entirely destroy the centre of the deltoid, while there is always enough flesh left at the sides for making the two flaps. Secondly, because, in the very rare instances where the lateral parts of the shoulder are destroyed, and the middle untouched, no advantage would be gained by operating in La Faye's manner, as Larrey conceives that the de- tached flap would slough, or become, as he terms it, disorganised. He now prefers dividing the middle piece of flesh, and giving the flaps the same shape as if they were uninjured. He even asserts, that the operation, done without any Hops at all, answers better than any method in which the surgeon preserves flaps not naturally intended for the part. Thus, when all thj flesh of the shoulder has been shot away, he has seen surgeons cover the glenoid cavity with a flap saved from the soft parts of the axilla ; but sucli flaps invariably sloughed, hemorrhages ensued, and the patients died. (P. 4aO, 431.) Some of these latter ob- servations are, clearly enough, the result of great partiality to a particular method of operating ; because who can doubt, when the lateral parts of the shoulder are injured, as they frequently are (and not very rarely, as Larrey asserts), bv the passage of a musket-ball through the shoulder, from before backwards, that the right method is that of La Faye ; or the same operation, with the slight difference of making the flap of a semicir- cular shape ? It was for cases of this description that Mr. Collier and the author of this Dictionary operated after La Faye's plan, with perfect success, after the battle of Waterloo : and a poor fellow of the rifle brigade, who was brought in too late for operation, and died of sloughing, had his shoulder nijured in the same wa)-, the middle of the deltoid being untouched, and shot-holes existing behind, and in front of, the articulation. The cases which have fallen under my own personal observation, and numerous others on record, furnish an adequate proof, that, excellent as Larrey's method is for many cases, La Faye's answers very well in others. After the storming of St. Sebastian, nine shoulder- joint amputations were done with success ; seven of them by raising the deltoid as a flap. (See Guthrie on Gunshot Wounds, p. 108.) The oval operation is described by M. Scout- teten, for the left arm, as follows :—The surgeon first takes hold of the middle of the arm with his left hand, and raises it four or five inches from the side. With his right hand he then applies the point of the scalpel immediately below the acro- mion, and passes it into the flfsh until it touches the head of the humerus. He then depresses the handle, and forms the first incision, which extends downwards four inches from the point of the acro- mion, and divides the posterior third of the deltoid, and the greater part of the fibres of the long por- tion of the triceps down to the bone. The second incision is next commenced with the point of the knife directed downwards upon the inner side of the limb, and in front of the biceps, on a level with the place where the first incision ended. The wound is then extended inwards and upwards to the acromion, where it terminates by joining the first. These two wounds form a triangle, which partly consists of relinquished integuments, and has its base downwards. In order to find the joint with greater ease, the surgeon may now detach a little of the deltoid from the bone. An assistant can also keep the edges of the incision asunder, so that the operator may be enabled to see and divide the capsular ligament and the tendons of the supra-spinatus, infi'a-spinatus, and teres minor, which are inserted into the greater tubercle of the humerus, and the tendon of the subscapularis, which is inserted into the lesser tubercle. The operator, who constantly keeps hold of the arm, now communicates to it some rotatory movements, in order to bring the above tendons, one after another, under the knife, and divide them with the capsule. Imiuediatclj' the capsule and tendons have been cut through, the head of the bone readily quits its socket. The surgeon luxates the bone by pushing it a little up- wards, and, at the same moment, inclining the condyles towards the side. The next proceeding is to divide the flesh on the inner side of the limb,