512 DISLOCATION cular process is displaced. The bilateral, again, according to M. Malgaigne, may be complete or in- comj^lele. The cases described by Mr. Lawrence, it may be observed, afford examples of each of these three varieties. In the complete bilateral dislocation, of which Malgaigne refers to twenty-three examples, the inferior articular processes of the vertebra above are situated altogether in front of the superior ar- ticular processes of the vertebra below, to the notches of which they correspond. The interver- tebral fibro-cartilage, and most of the ligaments are torn through, but the anterior common ligament often remains entire, being peeled oS from the anterior surface of the vertebraj below. The spinal marrow must, of course, suffer more or less from compression, stretching, or laceration. In one case, seen by Dupuytren, tlie pharynx was ruptured. Strange to say, the vertebral artery has always been found uninjured. Of the twenty-three cases referred to, two were dislocations of the second vertebra, four of the fourth, six of the fifth, nine of the sixth, and two of the seventh on the first dorsal. Fifteen of these were nnaccompanied by any fracture whatever ; but in the remaining eight, the articular or some other processes were broken. A fall or a blow, or any external violence opera- ting in such a manner as to bend the head and neck suddenly and forcibly forwards, may produce this dislocation ; the causes, are in fact, very similar to those wliich have already been mentioned as producing dislocation of the atlas and axis. The symptoms are, pain at the back of the neck, a bent position of the head forwards, and probably a depression felt posteriorly opposite to the seat of the injury, with a projection just beneath, caused by the spinous process of the succeeding vertebra. Sometimes, by exploration of the pharynx with the finger, a corresponding inequality upon the anterior aspect of the spine may be detected. Complete paral3^si3 of the trunk and lower extre- mities is the immediate result of the accident, and complete or partial paral3'sis of the upper extre- mities according to the level at which it has taken place. All these symptoms, however, equally belong to a fracture of the spine in the like situation, and any degree of accuracy of diagnosis between these two injuries is obviously unattainable. These dislocations are almost inevitably fatal. Death has usually taken place in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours; but the higher the level of the injury, the sooner may the fatal result be expected. A patient under the care of Mr. Jor- dan in the Manchester Infirmary, with dislocation of the seventh cervical vertebra, survived for six days. (See Drew, Lancet, 1850, vol. i. p. 5.9.9.) Another, under the care of M. Roux, lived till the eighth day. The important question arises, should any at- tempts at reduction be made. Fear of increasing the mischief and of accelerating the fatal termina- tion, appears for the most part to have deterred surgeons hitherto from making the attempt. Con- sidering, however, that all but certain death must result from non-interference, it appears scarcely consistent with sound surgery not to use every endeavour to remedy what we know to be the principal mischief,—the compression of the spinal marrow by the displaced bone—since it is cer- tainly/jossiiZc, that by judiciously directed efforts, whether the case be one of fracture or of dislocation, this most desirable result may be accomplish- Mr. Gaitskill made the attempt, but without si cess. (Loud. Med. Itepos. vol. xv. p. 282.) case, however, of supposed dislocation of the fil cervical vertebra, under the care of M. Vrignr neau, terminated more fortunately. On the secoi day after the accident, death appeared to be imn nent, it was therefore resolved to make an effort at reduction. The attempt was successful, and the re- duction took place with a sensible crackling noise. The paralysis, and other sj'mptoms, disappeared as if by magic, and two months afterwards the pa- tient was perfectly well, with the exception of some slight stiffness of the neck, and inability to perform lateral movements. (See Malgaiyne,' \oc. oit. p. 3G3.) The attempts at reduction should consist, according to M. Malgaigne, in making ex- tension upon the head, while the trunk is held fixed by tlie shoulders, (the patient being raised to" the sitting position,) and when sufficient extension has been made, the head should be drawn back- wards, while the surgeon may with his knee make pressure forwards upon the spine below the seat of the injury.] [Incomplete bilateral dislocation.—One case of this kind is recorded by Mr. Lawrence, and has been already alluded to in this article. M. Mal- gaigne refers to nine examples of incomplete dis- placement in the cervical region, where the articular surfaces of the vertebra above were displaced up- wards upon those of the vertebra below, but with- out complete separation. Mr. Lawrence's case is included in the number. When this accident happens, the intervertebral cartilage, ligamenta subflava, and other ligaments, are ruptured to a greater or less extent ; there is an increased inter- val between the spinous processes opposite to the seat of injury, but the body of the vertebra above does not project forward to the same extent as in the complete dislocation. The spinal marrow, it might be expected, would not suffer injury to the same extent as in a complete dislocation ; these cases, however, have not been less fatal than the others, for four died within twenty-four hours, and one only lived till the twelfth day. The symp- toms of this injury are necessaril}' obscure. Should its existence be suspected, an attempt at reduction might be made, and it would bo more likely to be attended with success than where the dislocation is complete. M. Malgaigne thinks that the incom- plete dislocation maj' sometimes occur, but mav undergo immediate and spontaneous reduction with- out causing any serious injury to the spinal cord.] Unilateral dislocation.—When dislocations of the cervical vertebrie occur at the third, '"ourth, fifth, or sixth of these bones, and only one articular process is luxated, the accident is not always fatal. In these instances, the vertebral canal is not so much lessened as to compress the spinal marrow, and occasion immediate death. According to Bo3-er, many examples have hap- pened, in which one of the inferior oblique or arti- cular processes of a cervical vertebra, has been dis- located, so as to cause a permanent inclination of the neck towards the side opposite to that of the displacement. {Mai. Chir. t. iv. p. 114.) [M. Malgaigne has collected records of nine fatal cases of this dislocation, and of sevenleen in which recovery took place. On referring to the fatal cases, it appears tiiat death does not always follow so im- mediatelv as in the complete dislocation : thu^ one