II 2 3 If the skin commonly resulting as a necessary con- sequence of the severe pressure to whicli it was subjected. To the Dublin surgeons belongs the very great merit, not only of having pointed out the error of this doctrine, but of having distinctly laid down as the principle of the practice, that the aneurism was cured, when the artery leading to it was compressed, in precisely the same way as when a spontaneous cure takes place, or when the Hunterian operation is performed—viz. by the deposit of stratified fibrine in the sac, and by the consequent consolidation of this, aided by the con- traction of the walls of the sac; and that, as in the case of the ligature of the vessel, it was not neces- sary for the whole of the circulation through the artery to be entirely and permanently arrested, but merely for it to be lessened in quantity and force to such an extent as to be compatible with the formation of laminated fibrine in the sac; and it was clearly shown by examination after death . that if the pressure were properlj' conducted, the artery was in no way injured or occluded at the part compressed. This recognition of the true principles on which compression of the artery leading to the sac cures the aneurism, has led to important results; for, as the severe pressure that was formerly considered necessary is now known, not onlj' to be useless, but to be absolutely in- jurious, no amount of compression is exercised beyond what is requisite to restrain and moderate the flow of blood into the sac; no attempt being ever made to compress the artery so severely as to lead to its obliteration by inflammation. Though I have stated generally that aneurisms, when treated by compression, are cured by the deposit of laminated fibrine, I think this remark ought to be confined to the common sacculated form of the disease. In the tubular variety, which 1- certainly of far less frequent occurrence in the extremities, the cure of the aneurism takes place by contraction of the sac, and by its becoming filled by fibrine in a somewhat irregular manner. Illustrative of this mode of cure, there is a pre- paration in the Museum of University College. The success of the treatment by compression depends greatly upon a scrupulous attention to a number of minor circumstances, which, though tri- vial in themselves, become of importance when taken as a whole. During the whole of the treat- ment, also, the patient's general health should be attended to, in accordance with those dietetic and medical principles that have already been laid (I'.wn in speaking of the constitutional treatment ol the disease, having for their object the increase of the fibnnation of the blood. The irritability of t 10 heart and arteries must also be subdued, and tlic- irritation of the system lessened, by the use of opiates, and the patient should be put into a cmn- iiu table bed, with firm and well secured pillows and mattresses, so that his position bo not changed, it is principally in aneurism of the lower ex- iiity that this plan of treatment can be em- ed, we shall proceed to describe the method of it. application here; and, in doing so, I would I ' Miark, that much of the success of the treatment pends on a scrupulous attention to minute details. I he limb having been bandaged smoothly, with It or air pad upon the tumor, so as to approxi- Its sides, and laid comfortably on pillows, liin thigh should bo shaved, and dusted with hair- I' lwder. The apparatus must next bo applied, ANEURISM and much of the success of the treatment will de- pend upon the kind of instrument used. The ordinary horse-shoe, or Signorini's tourniquet, was the one first emploj'ed, and this will, in many cases, answer the purpose perfectly well; but as it is somewhat difficult to regulate the pressure with this instrument, and as it is not unfrequently exercised too powerfully, it has generally given place, at the present day, to the very ingenious apparatus of Dr. Carte, which, as it substitutes an elastic force derived from vulcanised india-rubber bands for the unyielding pressure of the screw, accommodates itself better to the limb, and is less likely to produce injurious compression. This instrument, as well as the other contrivances which have at various times been invented for the treat- ment of aneurism by compression, are described- by Drs. Bellingham and Tufnell, in their works on this subject, to which I must refer for a fuller account than I can here give. In some cases, the circulation through the artery may conveniently be controlled by the pressure of a weight laid over it in the groin as it passes over the pubes; usually li-ora a four to a seven pound weight is sufficient for this purpose. In this way, when only one compressor is applied on the limb, the flow of blood may be checked during the time that the screw is loosened. Care must of course be taken that the weight do not slip off. It is best made of lead, cast in a conical shape, and may be re- tained in situ by having a wide leather socket made to fit it, shaped somewhat like the hopper of a mill; its broad end should be upwards, and the narrow end press on the vessel. In applying the compressor, especial care must be taken that it is well padded in every part, so as not to gall the skin. In some of the early cases in which I saw compression employed in London by means of the horse-shoe tourniquet, much in- convenience resulted from want of attention to this particular. The tendency to fretting of the skin IS much lessened by powdering the limb and the removal of the cuticular hairs by shaving di- minishes materially the irritation produced bv the instrument. In order to keep up continuouspres- sure, and, at the same time, to prevent any one part of the skin being injuriously galled, it is of very great consequence that two instruments should be used at the same time, so that when one is screwed up, the other should be loose ; these in- struments need not be placed closely togetlier If the aneurism bo in the ham, it will be sufficient for one to be applied to the groin, whilst the other is put upon the middle of the thigh. In usinir the instrument, the great point, as Dr. Tufnell most properly remarks, is to control the circulation with ho minimum of pressure; in order to do this the |i,iuiy....,„....,Hw'T:;,l"'i,:Tr,,;; it. As the pressure exercised hv tl,;- i " painful, it nius\ be slightly loc^eLSfa h "d one screwed up. I„ this way an alternation of pressure can be kept up without much pain or mconvenicnce. If possil.lo, the patient sl'mld be taugh how to manage the instniment himseli; and vvill often find an occupation and amuseme, Jomg 80. If, however, it excite much pain or ir- ntation, as it does in some subjects, it may be necessary to give opiates. The pressure should, if possible bo continued during sleep, but if it prc-