AMPUTATION mind that the base of this metatarsal bone has a tubercle projecting downwards iu the sole of the foot, and that this tubercle receives the insertion of the peroneus longus tendon. The fifth toe with its metatarsal bone, may be dis- articulated by a like methed from the cuboid. The joint between these bones has an oblique direction forwards and inwards across the foot, and the base of the metatarsal bone hns a large tubercle projecting backwards beyond it which may be very readily felt along the outer margin of the foot. This tubercle receives the insertion of the peroneus brevis tendon; the point of the knife should be passed behind it and then carried obliquely for- wards, so as to divide the tendon and enter the joint. The first and second toes with their metatarsal bones may be removed together; and so also may the fourth and fifth, or perhaps even the third, fourth and fifth ; but if more than these should re- quire to be taken away, it would be better to am- putate across the foot at the tarso-metatarsal joints.] Amputation at the Tarso metatarsal Articulations. Mr. Hey proposed a new mode of removing the metatarsal bones, which on repeated trial fully answered his expectations. By the term ?ieiv, I here mean a particular method, which had not been previously described, though it may have been per- formed by others sooner than by Mr. Hey himself; for the merit of having first done it is imputed to the late Mr. Turner, of North Yarmouth, who did it vvith success about the year 1787. (See Hutchi- son's Prac. Obs. p. 70.) On the first entrance of the French army into Holland after the-revolution, Paroisse met with many cases in which the toes, and more or less of the foot were attacked with mortification from cold. Here he found it sufficient merely to take away the diseased portion of the foot, and all the patients operated upon in this manner were cured ; walking afterwards with more or less difficulty, according as the portion of the foot taken away had been greater or smaller. {^Opuscules de Chir. p. 218.) Mr. Hey made a mark across the upper part of the foot, to denote where the metatarsal bones are joined to those of the tarsus. About half an inch from this mark, nearer the toes, he made a trans- verse incision, through the integuments and muscles covering the metatarsal bones. From each extre- mity of this cut, he made an incision along the inner and outer side of the foot to the toes : he removed all the toes from the metatarsal bones, and then separated tlie integuments and muscles form- ing the sole of the foot, from the inferior part of the metatarsal bones, keeping the edge of the knife as near the bones as possible, in order to expedite the operation, and preserve as much nmscular flesh in the flap as could be saved. He then separated the four smaller metatarsal bones, at their junction with the tarsus, and divided witli a saw the pro- jecting part of the first cuneiform bone, which supports the great toe. Tlie arteries being tied, Mr. Hey applied the flap, whicli had formed the sole of the foot, to the integuments which remained at the upper part, and kept them in contact with sutures. The cicatrix being situated at the top of tlie foot, is in no danger of being luu-t ; while the place, where the toes were situated, is covered witii such strong skin, viz. what previously formed the sole of the foot, that it cannot be injured by any moderate violence. (See Practical Observa- tions in Siirr/cri/, p. 53,5, &c.) [Lisfrauc, who gave very minute instructions for the performance of this operation, did not saw off the internal cuneiform bone, nor is it usual to do so in the present day ; but the first metatarsal bone is separated, like the others, at its line of union with the tarsus. Before attempting this operation, the surgeon must make himself thoroughly acquainted with the anatomy of the tarso-metatarsal joints, vyhich are very closely and firmly held together by ligaments, so that very little movement is permitted to tliem. The general direction of the articulation is con- vex towards the toes, but it is also oblique forwards and inwards across the foot. This should be re- membered in making the first incision, whicii should be slightly convex, and should have a cor- responding obliquity instead of being transverse as recommended by Mr. Hey. Before making this incision the operator should determine to his satis- faction the points opposite to which the articulation commences, both on the inner and on the outer side of the foot. On the outer side he will have no difficulty in recognising the tubercle of the fifth metatarsal bone, but on the inner side there is no equally evident projection belonging to the first metatarsal ; he might, therefore, unless he were well acquainted with the anatomy of these joints, fall into the error of opening the articulation be- tween the scaphoid and cuneiform bones, instead of that between the cuneiform and first metatarsal. The principal prominence along the inner margin of the foot belongs to the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone, the joint between the metatarsal bone and the internal cuneiform is an inch and a quarter or an inch and a half in front of this prominence. The outline of these articulations is very irregu- lar in consequence of the manner in which the second metatarsal bone projects backwards and is wedged in between the three cinieiforra bones. This point should be specially noticed, as it consti- tutes the chief difficulty in disarticulating the boi;es. There are very strong ligaments in the sole of the foot binding the bones together, passing both in a transverse and longitudinal direction, and the tendon of the peroneus longus crosses the sole of the foot to be inserted into the base of the first metjitarsal bone. The French surgeons describe an interos- seous ligament passing from the outer surface of the internal cuneiform to the base of the second and tliird metatarsal bones, and Lisfranc believed this ligament to be the principal obstacle in separatingthe bones. He recommended, therefore, that the point of the knife should be thrust downwards towards the sole of the foot, between tlie internal cuneiform and second metatarsal bones so as to divide this ligament, immediately after the joint had been opened above. This plan is not generally recom- mended by English writers, probably from fear that the point of the knife might pass too far into the sole of the foot, and injure vessels at a distance from the surface of the wound and beyond the reach of a ligature. A little practice on the dead subject will enable the surgeon to separate the bones with tolerable facility without resorting to this expedient. The plantar flap should lie largo ; it should extend forwards on tiie inner side nearly to the root of the great toe, but it need not he quite so long towards the out.r border of the foot.