11 „ HEAD, INJUEIES OF THE. befiilly warranted in exploringthe root of the fungus by a grooved needle, provided symptoms of ^rol sure, although obscure, and the continued indlpo sjtion of the patient were on the increase. We ven- ture to offer this suggestion from deductions drawn trom the facts here recorded. The emplojonent ot the same means would also be decidedly ap- plicable to those cases in which foreign bodies are suspected. The local means usually had recourse to for the ciu'e of fungus cerebri consist in the application of pressure to arrest its growth, and the removal by incision of that which has already protruded; or the two means are frequently used, and very judi- ciously, in combination: the fungus beino- cut off pressure is applied to its root to prevenrany fur- ther growth. Experience fully justifies the em- ployment of these means, and the free removal of the protruding mass affords additional evidence of the tact that the human brain, the centre and s^at oi sensation, is a part of no high sensibility, and may be handled with impunity as rouffhly as any viscus in the body. We shall enter a little into detail in the consi- deration of the methods of cure just referred to beginning with the employment of pressure with a view to prevent or check the growth of the tumor._ _ If the opinion be correct that hernia cerebri is not caused by the mere want of sup- port from the removal of bone by the trephine or by exfoliation, and especially if, as we suppose, the cause of the disease exists generally in the brain itself, it follows of necessity that the indis- criminate employment of pressure at the onset, that is, when the diseased mass is just makinsr its appearance through the opening of the skull, is Jiighly injudicious, and ought not to be had re- coiirse to, as it then increases the inconvenience which the escape of the diseased brain is calculated to remove. Witness in proof of this assertion the toilowing quotation from a case mentioned by Mr. Stanley. (Loc. cit. p. 42.) " The wound was dressed as usual with adhesive plaster, the strips being made to cross each other over the protruded portion of brain previously covered by the flaps of scalp. I observed, however, that when the strips were applied so tight as to compress the brain to a certain degree, the boy became restless and stupid until they were removed or had slipped." The perusal of other cases also, in which a similar plan of treatment has been employed, induces us to condemn the use of pressure on the iirst appear- ance of the fungus, except under the closest in- spection, for two reasons: namely, because the escape of the diseased brain will in itself afford relief, and ought not therefore to be interfered ■with ; and secondly, because it is quite clear from very little observation, that pressure will not pre- vent the extension of the tumor, and that if the lungus IS by force arrested in one direction, it will make its way in another. It has been advised, and the proposal is worthy ot great attention, to afford mechanical suppo/t W ^''"^ ''"'■^ ""''''^ ^f'"' the removal of ventin:£, '^"^ ^^''^P^™'^' ^^''^ '''e object of pre- vhen"fhif tn'«ions of the brain : therefore, ompress «, Si'l' ^efully adjusted, a sof wh?rrot ^-AVf5f"''y "} a" cases where no blood ,-« »V T""^ "P?""* ^"'^'^^ a«ia mater an^ u"''^ ,"P°" ^'c be" ie that tv v- " • 'f' "^^'^ "^^o^"" for ' that the brain ,s healthy beneath. But dm- the pressure is to be deprecated where the dura mate I'onteed'"^' '^"'^ ^^^''^ necessarily Where the hernia cerebri has made considerable progress and has encroached extensively in a mushroom-like form on the cranial parietes, pres- sure may be used with advantage to an extent sufficient to cause sloughing of the mass; by this a very considerable source of irritation may be got rid of at once. But this must be at once re- mitted if symptoms of compression or cerebral irritation corne on during its employment The iise of pressure should not be altogether con- demned, but much reliance should not be placed upon It, independent of general treatment, as Ti remedy for hernia cerebri ; and we certainly should never advocate its use with the intention of restor- ing the protruded brain to its original position m the skull. The shaving off of the tumor on a level with the opening of the skull is a bold, rapid, and decisive practice ; it has been frequently employed witli no inconsiderable success ; and if pressure is use- ful, it can, after the ablation of the tumor with the knife, be used with much greater prospect of benefit. Another advantage gained by the inci- sion through the root of the tumor is the exposure of any foreign body which may exist, as a spiculum of bone, or any other irritant; and moreover it affords a ready opportunity for any explorative puncture which may be deemed from the urgency of the symptoms advisable. Let the surgeon, therefore, fi-eely slice off the whole mass, and then carefully apply pressure with compresses wet with simple water or with any weak astringent, as a solution of alum, or dilute nitric acid. The practice seems hazardous, but experience justifies ■ Its employment. But little pain is usually felt on cutting through the tumor, and the flow of blood, which is sometimes considerable, may be generally stopped by pressure. The speedy re- appearance of the fungus will often demand a repetition of the operation; and if all the diseased parts of the brain are thus removed, the surgeon will find ultimately a healthy granulating surface supersede the tendency to fungate, and a cure will be effected. The ligature has been used to effect the same object as the knife. The tendency to spontaneous cure may be some- times remarked in cases apparently of the most formidable description; for after the growth of'he tumor to an almost unlimited extent, its surface begins to separate into large masses, and sloughs are formed by which the whole of the tumor is ' gradually thrown off, and distinct and healthy fleshy granulations, springing up at tiie root of the fungus, gradually coalesce with those of the adja- cent scalp; when under proper management com- plete cicatrisation speedily ensues, and the cure is perfected. All that is required during this healthy restorative action, is to give moderate support with strips of wet lint, with the occasional use of solid nitrate of silver. From observing the fact that hernia cerebri occurs more commonly after lacera- tions of the brain, when a comparatively smnll opening has been made by the trephine, Vclpeau advises that the surgeon should not limit himself to the removal of a single piece of bone, but, to pre- vent the occurrence of so intractable a disease, should boldly remove the bone to such an extent as to give an opportunity to a more general expan-