the whole head with cold water, especially the part about the eyes; a method, he says, which may often be practised, after evacuations, with singular aud remarkable efficacy. When amaurosis follows the healing of old sores, Beer recommends the formation of them again, by applying to the cicatrix strong mustard cataplasms, and the muriate of soda; and, if the new ulcers cannot be made to discharge properly, he recommends issues on the legs or thighs. These plans are to be aided by such medicines as act specifically upon the skin, like antimouials, espe- cially the sulphur auratum antimonii. Beer also speaks favourably of sulphur baths; and, in cases complicated with debility, administers tonics. (See Lehre von den Aiigenkr. b. ii. p. 556—563.) When amaurosis lias followed the sudden Jiealing of ulcers, or the disappearance of an erupiion, or the sup- pression of some customary evacuation, Mr. Mid- dlemore is an advocate for counter irritation hy means of a seton or issue. (On Bis. of llie Eye, vol. ii. p. 279.) In the incomplete amatcrosis from general nervous debility, copious hemorrhage, convulsions, and long- continued intense study, especially by candlelight, Scarpa advocates the following plan of treatment. When the complaint is recent, in a young subject, the alimentary canal is to be emptied with small repeated doses of rhubarb, after which tonic cordial remedies are to be given. At the same time, the patient is to abstain from everything that has a tendency to weaken the nervous sys- tem, and, consequently, the eyesight. After emptying the stomach and bowels, it is proper to prescribe the decoction of bark with valerian, or the infusion of quassia with the addition of a few drops of sulphuric sether to each dose, with nou- rishing, easily digestible food. The aromatic spirituous vapours (mentioned in the article Oph- thaljiia) may then be topically applied; or, if these prcve ineffectual, the vapour of liquor ammonise. The patient must take exercise on foot, horseback, or in a carriage, in a wholesome dry air, in warm weather, and avail himself of sea-bathing. He must avoid ail thoughts of care, and refrain from fixing his eyes on minute shining objects. The impression of vivid light on the retina is to be moderated by means of llat green glasses. (Saggio di Osscrvaz. cap. 19.) Mr.^ Travers remarks, that the amaurosis from depletion is som.etimes mistaken for the opposite case, viz. that from plethoric congestion: this is owing to the coincidence of a dilated and immove- able pupil, muscc-e, and a deep-seated pain in the head, with occasional vertigo, and its frequent occurrence in a cnrpuloiit habit. By a cautious use of touics (says Mr. Travers) it is relieved; by whatever lowers, or stimulates, whether diet or medicine, it is decidedly aggravated. In this fonn of amaurosis, vision is further enfeebled by the loss of as much blood as flows from two or three leech bites. (Synopsis, <^c. p. 160.) When the weakness is confined to the eye, Richter thinks corroborant applications alone ne- cessary. Bathing the eye with cold water, says he, is one of the most powerful means of strengtli- ening the eye. The patient should dip in cold Water a compress, doul)led into eight folds, and sufficiently large to cover the whole face and fore- head, and this he should keep applied as long as it continues cold. Or else he should frequently AMAUROSIS. 43 apply cold water to his ej'es and face with his hand, on a piece of rag. The eye may also be strengthened by repeatedly applying blisters of a semi-lunar shape above the e)'ebrows, just long enough to excite redness. Richter likewise speaks favourably of rubbing the upper eyelid, several times a day, with a mixture of the tinctura lyttte and spiritus serpilli. (An- fansgr. der Wundarz. b. iii. p. 452.) Here the endermic application of strychnia de- serves to be remembered. In the amaurosis suddenly formed by exposure to vivid light or lightning, we may clear out the ali- mentary canal with an active dose of calomel and jalap. Blisters may then be applied above the eyebrows-; and if these fail, electricity, or the ex- ternal use of strychnia, may be tried. (See Mid- dlemore on Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii.) The employment of electricity in amaurosis was advocated by Mr. Hey, and also by Mr. Ware, and there seems to be sufficient ground for believ- ing that in some cases it has proved highly service- able. Mr. Ware thought it likely to be especially useful in the amaurosis from the effect of light- ning. Magendie says that he has seen great benefit re- sulting from its use, and in some cases of incomplete amaurosis that it produced a perfect cure. The method employed by him was that of gal- vano puncture. He inserted needles into the frontal and superior maxillary nerves, and then passed a galvanic current along them. Mr. Lawrence on the other hand considers the indiscriminate use of electricity both ineligible and unsafe, and especially dangerous whenever conges- tion exists in the head, or active determination in the eye. He thinks it should only be used as an empirical remedy, after other measures have failed (Ed. 3, p. 559.) Dr. Mackenzie, too, says that "electricity, gal- vanism, and electro-magnetism are likely to be useful only in cases of a torpid character, and free from excitement, and that they would be hazardous if inflammation were present, or if they excited pain. {On Dis. of the Eye, ed. 4, p. 1034.) In amaurosis from the gradual effect of any ex- posure of the eye to vivid light, or of hard study by light of lamps or candles, the foregoing treatment would I think be less likely to answer. Here the symptoms depend upon congestion or inflammation affecting the retina and optic nerve, and perhaps even the cerebral portion of the optic apparatus. The treatment, therefore, should consist of moderate depletion, followed by mercury and counter irrita- tion, and_ the most perfect rest of the organ. (Mackenzie on Dis. of the Eye, ed. 4, p 1059 ) We come now to the consideration of'that species of amaurosis which is regarded as the effect of some unnatural irritation. Here, according to the precepts delivered by Richter, we should en- deavour to discover what the particular irritation ■s, and then endeavour to effect its removal, feomet.nies the irritation is both discoverable and removable, mid still the blindness continues. In this circumstance, Richter thinks that the surgeon should endeavour to obviate the impression which the irritation has left upon the nerves, by the use 01 anodynes; or else try to remove the "torpor of the nerves by stimiihmts. Now, according to bchmucker, Richter, mid Scarpa, curable Imperfect amaurosis commonly depends on some disease, or