CORNEA !i concentrated state of such chemicals transform (he corneal tissue into a soft pulpy mass, or into a dry eschar of different colours. Tumors and excrescences of ike cornea. — (For the latter see also article Conjii.nctiva.) Of the different forms of cancer the following have been observed on the cornea—the gelatinous epithelial, and medullary cancer, including what IS called fungous hasmatodes and melanosis A case of gelatinous cancer involving also other parts of the orbit has been reported by Stellwaa von Canon, OplUhalmologie, Bd. 1, S. 341, No. 176— 179. Also Wardroj}, Obscrvat on fungous hcema- lodes Edmb. 1809. It consisted of a yellowish tough, transparent mass, which, microscopically showed a faint arrangement in fibres interspersed with darkish nuclei. Epithelial cancer has not yet been obseryed as a primary disease; its secondary appearance is also rare; it has in some cases involved the remainder of the globe; it is preceded by hard nodules on the outer surface of the lids. When on the cornea it appears under the form of small, millet-seed sized white, hard nodules, with a hazy slightly vascular Jwlo round their base. These nodules ulcerate and perforate the cornea; microscopical examination sJiows the elements which are generallv peculiar to the epithelial cancer. (See SieUxvag von Carion Ophthalmologie, 8>'c. vol. i. p. ]80; and Jacob in Dublin Hospital Reports, vo], iv. p, 232 ; and iV/cd. Chir. Transactions, vol. ii. pp. 216 and 225.) The medullary cancer of the cornea is, like the foregoing species, preceded by a simple infiltration of the cor- neal tissue; this cancer also appears under the form of nodules of bluish, or white reddish, brown, or black colour, of cheesj', fleshy or cartilaginous consistence. It spreads more on the surface than m the substance of the cornea; it appears primary, and secondary encroaching from the neighbouring parts upon the cornea. Its elements are microsco- pically those generally known. (See Stellwaa von Carion, OpMhalmol. Bd. 1, S. 344, No. 183—185.) A case of spontaneous cure of this species of can- cer IS mentioned by Ritterich {Schons Handbucli der Pathol. Anatomic des Avges, S. 180). For treatment see Excision of the Eyeb.\i.i,. Lupus of the cornea. It resembles the epithe- lial cancer of the cornea in its manner of infiltrating: It is an endemic disease, of which two chief forms must be distinguished; the one is characterised by an abundant and peculiar exudation, the other by a paralysis of the sensitive nerves with subsequent atrophy of the eye, &c. Lupus, as far as has been hitherto ascertained, does not appear primary on the cornea; it is preceded by lupus nodules in the subconjunctival tissue round the cornea; the latter becomes hazy and inflamed, and the further pro- ducts of this inflammation appear as lupus nodules, &c., which gradually ulcerate, and lead to perfora- tion of the cornea, &c. (See Ilimley, Ophthalm. BeobacUungen und Unlirsuchungen, Bremen, 1801, p. 118; Primer, Die Krankhcitcn dcs Orienls, Er- langen, 1837; Riegler, Die Turlcci und dercn Be- i^ohncr, Wien, 2 ThI. ; Daniclsen mid W. Boeck, I raitc do la Spedalskad, or Elephantiasis des Grees; traduil en fran<,-ais par L. A. Casson, Paris, 1848; u'r- ^^''"'""^ Xeitsch.. der Gesellschaft der Aerzle in men, 18oI, 1 Bd. S. 408.) Occasionally we meet wittx excrescences on the cornea, which resemble nceyi on the skin; they appear as reddish, soft, easily bleedmg warts ; sometimes hairs grow on them, they have been observed congenitally ; tlv may have a large base or be pedunculated. (S, Desmarres Trait, des Mai. dcs Yeiix, p. 352; Stell- Wardrop, Morb. Anat. of ike Human Eye, vol. i TL\^\f i !^'"f' ^"Sieclasieri Leipzig, 1808, & 30; &chon, Handbuch der Path. Anat das fngos, 1828, S. 180; Gazelles, Journ. de Med tome XXIV. p 332; Lerehe, Vermischte Ahhdig. aus- dem Gebietc der Heilk. etc. Petersb. 1823, p 199 • Uyba, Dusensy Diss, iiber die Krankheilen der durcll sichtigen Ilornhont. Prag. J833, S. 63- Fischer Lehrbuch der ges. Eiilzundungen, S. SOS- Kol- hker, Mikroscoj). Anat. 2 Bd. 1 Hcilft. S. 133 etc.) ' For different new formations on the cornea, the nature of which has not been examined, see Plaiclier,Diss. de Fungo Oculi, Heidelb. 1780; Schon, iy.\ :, P<^fJi'--^nat. S. 180; Himley, Krkhtn. Missbildungen, fc. 2 Bd. S. 20. Ossifications in the cornea have frequently been observed. They can only be distinguished micro- scopically from earthy concretions; they are al- \yays overlaid by epithelium or some other organic tissue, and are a further development of inflamma- tory products, similar to those observed on the inner surface of the choroid. Plates of bone have been observed, which obscured the whole extent of the cornea. ^ Cases of extravasation of blood into the lamel- lated tissue of the cornea have been observed by Stellumg von Carion, Ophthalmol, vol. i. p. 301. Incrustations on corneal ulcerations have been no- ticed after the use of lead lotions, and of lotions which contained opium with some salt of cad- mium, zinc, or copper. (See Cunier, Ann. d'Ocul. vol. xui. p. 255.) For inflammation, abscess, and ulcer of the cornea, opacities of the cornea, earthy deposits, sta- phyloma and fistula of the cornea, the reader is referred to the subjoined account of Corneitis. For the subjects treated of in the above article on cornea, see IF. Bowman, Lectures on the parts concerned in tlie Operations on the Eye, ^-c. 1849; Dr. A. Kolliker, Microscopisclie Anatomic, 1850 ; Dr. Carl Wedel, Grundzuge der Patholoqi- schen Histologic, Wien, 1854 ; Dr. Carl Sicllwag von Carion, Die OphtMmologie, S;c. vol. i. 1853; James Dixon, A Guide to the Practical Study 0} Diseases of tJie Eye, cjc. 1855; William Mackenzie, A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, 4tli ed. 1854 ; W. Lawrence, edited by Isiac Hays, A Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, 1854; Desmarres, Trailc Theorigue et Pratique des Ma- ladies des Vcitj; edit. 2d.-\-ol. ii. 1855 ; and Graefc, Archiv.fiirOphthalmolocjic, Bd. ], Abthl. 2, S.287,' 1855; Bd. 2, Abthl. 2, S. 334, 1856; Bd. 3, 1857 ; Bd. 3, Abthl. 2, S. J, S. 166, Abthl 405. Inflammation of the cornea {corneitis,kcrafitis).~ It is a disease of childhood and youth, very rarelv occurring after the middle period of life: itusuallv deyelopes itself in a few days, with little or im pain, and with scarcely any evidence of conjunctival inflammation, the slight pink discoloration seeming rather to be duo to injection of the sclerotic vessels, probably those vessels which are described as being specially dedicated to the nutrition of tlie proper layers of the cornea. That which usually first attracts the notice of the patient is dimness of sight ill one eye, accoiiipaniod sometimes with