EAR. 597 t. ix.) In the second case, that is to say, when the risk of wounding the membrana tj'mpani leads us to prefer the employment of caustic, the safest and most commodious way of putting the plan into execution would be that of touching the obstruc- tion, as often as circumstance may require, with the extremity of a bougie armed with nitrate of silver. In the intervals of the applications, no dressings need be introduced, except a bit of clean soft cotton, for the purpose of absorbing any dis- charge which may take place within the passage. It is manifest, that if the whole, or a consider- able part of the meatus auditorius externus were wanting, the foregoing measures would be insuf- ficient. The following observations of Leschevin merit attention: — " I do not here allude to cases, in which a malformation of the bone exists. I know not, whether there are any examples of such an iraperforation; but, it is clear, that it would be absolutely incurable. I speak of a temporal bone perfectly formed in all its parts, and the meatus auditorius of which, instead of being merely lined by a membrane, as in the natural state, is blocked up by the cohesion of the parietes of this membrane throughout a certain extent of the canal; just as the urethra, rectum, or vagina, is sometimes ob served to be not simply closed by a membrane, but by a true obliteration of its cavity. " Such a defect in the ear may be congenital, and it may also arise from a wound, or ulceration, of the whole circumference of the meatus auditorius externus, this canal having become closed by the adhesion of its parietes, on cicatrisation taking place. " Such an imperforation, whether congenital or accidental, must certainly be more difficult to cure than the examples treated of above ; but,'' says Leschevin, " I do not for this reason believe, that the case ought to be entirely abandoned. Yet, I would not have the cure attempted in all sorts of circumstances. For instance, if the defect only existed in one ear, and the other were sound, I would not undertake the operation, because, as the patient could hear tolerably well on one side, the advantages which he might derive from having the enjoyment of the other ear, would not counter- balance the pain and bad symptoms occasioned by such an experiment, the success of which is ex- tremeij' uncertain. 1 would not then run the risk of making a perforation, except in a case of com- plete deafness; and I propose this means only as a dubious one, upon the fundamental maxim, so often laid down, that it is preferable to employ a doubtful remedy, than none at all. " With respect to the mode of executing this operation," says Leschevin, "the trocar seems the most eligible instrument. I would employ one that is very short, and the point of which is bliint- ish, and only projects out of a canula as little as possible. This construction would indeed make the instrument less adapted to pierce any thing ; but, still, as the parts to bo perforated are firm, their division might be accomplished sufficiently well; and the inconvenience of a trivial difficulty in the introduction of the trocar is comparatively much less than that which would attend the danger of wounding with a sharper point the membrane of the tympanum. I would phmgo the point of the instrument into the place, where the opening of the meatus auditorius externally ought naturally to be, and which would be denoted, either by a slight depression, or at all events by attending to the different parts of the ear, especially the tra- gus, which is situated directly over this passage. I would push in the trocar gently, in the direction of the canal formed in the bone, until the point of the instrument felt as if it had reached a vacant space. Then, withdrawing the trocar, and leaving the canula, I would try whether the patient could hear. I would then introduce into the cavity of the canula itself a small, rather firm tent, of the length of the passage, or a small bougie. By means of a probe, I would push it to the end of the canula, which I would now take out, observing to press upon the tent, which is to be left in. The rest of the treatment consists in keeping the canal pervious, making it suppurate, and healing it with common applications. One essential caution, however, would be tliat of keep- ing the part dilated long after it had healed : other- wise, it might close again, and a repetition of the operation become necessary. This happened to Heister, as he himself apprises us, and it occurred to Roonhuysen in treating imperforations of the vagina. " If the cohesion of the parietes of the meatus auditorius externus were to extend to the membrana tympani inclusively, the operation would be fruit- less; but, as it is impossible to ascertain this circumstance before the attempt is made, the surgeon would incur no disgrace by relinquishing the operation, and giving up the treatment of an incurable disease. If, then, after the trocar were introduced to about the depth of the t3'mpanum, the situation of which must be judged of by our anatomical knowledge, no cavity were met with, the operation should be abandoned; and if, in these circumstances, any one were to impute the want of success to the inefficacy of surgery, or the unskilfulness of the surgeon, he would act very unfairly. " It is also plain, that such an operation could cure a congenital deafness, only inasmuch as it might depend upon the imperforation ; for, if there should exist, at the same time, in the inter- nal ear, any malformation, destructive of the power of the organ, the remedying of the external defect would be quite useless." {Leschevin, in Prix de I'Acad, de Chivurgie, tom. ix. pp. 127—132.) We find, that this author entertains a great dread of wounding the membrana tympani, and certainly he is right in generally insisting upon the prudence of avoiding such an accident. It will appear, however, in the sequel of this article that under certain circumstances puncturing the tympanum has been successfully practised as a mode of remedying deafness. The operation, how- ever, demands caution ; for, if done so as to in- jure the connection of the malleus with the mem- brana tympani, the hearing must ever afterwards be very imperfect. [More extensive acquaintance with ear diseases shows that the above-named malformations are of rare occurrence; and that when they do take place are generally met with at the outer part of the canal, and consequently withni reach of easy treatment: this circumstance IS to be expected in the fretal and infantile life from the superficial position of the membrana tympani, and the shortness of the canal, which lengthening in the progress of development carries the cuticular lining with it. But a more important malformation, pointed out by Mr. Toynbee, is oc- Q Q 3