Llie retina, though to some extent macerated and disorganised by the contact and pressure ot the eiTusion within the choroid, yet did not appear to have any lymph adhering to them, or to liave themselves exuded any." " Case N—Ophthalmitis, similar to that oj vie last case, hut not so clearly of pMchitic origin, accompanying extensive inflammalion of heart and brain A. B. discovered that the sight of the left eye was impaired, and on the following day he could not distinguish light from darkness. All this was without any scintillations or other symptoms of retinitis, as ordinarily described. He had, however, some dnll deep-seated pam m the globe, but not extending to the brow or head. Leeches relieved the pain for a short time, but the blindness was complete. The pupil was half dilated, almost immovable, the humors quite clear. No morbid appearance in the tissue of the iris, which was of a dark brown. Slight con- junctival and sclerotic injection. (Aug, 31.) Sept. 1.—The pain continues in the eye, though mitigated; more injection of the conjunctiva and dis- position to chemosis; the margin of the pupil slightly irregular, otherwise the eye appears the same. •2nd.—The eyelids somewhat swollen ; decided serous chemosis, overlapping the cornea a little. Humors clear. Iris apparently natural, except that the pupil is puckered. The pain in the eye, as before, deep-seated and aching, not acute or in- tolerable, or preventing sleep. 3rcl.—More serous chemosis, projecting a little between the lids, which are swollen, but allow us just to see the cornea. This is clear, and so is the aqueous humor. The lens has a pale milky tinge, especially at the border of the pupil, which is in-egular. Frontof the iris natural. Pain in the eye not severe. Total blindness continues in this eye. 4th.—The chemosis has disappeared, the sclero- tica being still dull with vessels ; pupil fixed, lens more milky. 6th.—The pupil is occupied by opaque milky effusion ; the chemosis is gone, and there is much less redness. Examination t-wenty-s&oen hours afte)- death: Left eye: Ail chemosis and outward redness has subsided, and the globe looked very much like the other, except that the pupil was rendered opaque by an effusion of lymph, adherent to its border and to the capsule of the lens. The front of the iris had hardly lost any of its brilliance; the aqueous humor was clear, and the cornea trans- parent. On dissecting the outer surfiice of the eyeball, the areolar tissue contiguous to the sclerotica was found in some parts thickened and rendered semi-transparent by the effusion, which had attended tlie external inflammation. On carefully opening the sclerotica, the choroid was found everywhere in contact with it, and apparently healthy. The vessels and nerves on its outer surface seemed as usual. Tlie ciliary muscle also natural. But the moment a puncture was made in the choroid, a turbid yellow serum, with small flakes and grannies, escaped. This effusion lay between the choroid and retina, which latter was thrown somewhat inwards upon the vitreous humor, and lay in folds. The quantity of fluid altogether may have been about twenty minims. It coagulated by heat. On examination under the microscope, it was seen to contain— 1. Small masses of granules, very like the ag- CICATRISATION. 459 glomerated granules of the retina; 2. Many exudation corpuscles merging into pus corpuscles; and 3. Much amorphous finely granular matter. Nothing like the particles of Jacob's membrane, or fragments of them, could be found in it. The cavity in which this effusion lay, extended in_a forward direction only as far as the ora serrata, in front of which the ciliary processes of the choroid adhered naturally to the vitreous body. Backwards it did not reach the point of entrance of the optic nerve, being limited by a quantity of yellow lymph (with pus in its centre) disposed in a layer one-twelfth of an inch thick, uniting the choroid and retina, but most intimately adherent to the latter. The inner surface of the choroid in contact with the effused fluid was everywhere coated with lymph, which gave it a mottled aspect, and varied in quantity at different parts. None of the pig- ment seemed detached, and the lymph appeared to lie on the retinal surface of the choroidal epithelium. The choroid was somewhat thickened, and tore more readily than usual. It also con- tained more blood than natural Glaucoma has been considered as a form of cho- roiditis ; it will be treated of under the article Eye. Ossification of the inner (retinal) surface of the choroid has frequently been observed ; it appears to constitute one of the changes which inflammatory products may undergo. Such eyes are blind, and the other tissues are considerably diseased. For wounds of the choroid, see Eye, Injuries of. Dr. Mackenzie, when speaking of non-malignant tumors of the choroid and corpus ciliare, remarks: —" The posterior part of the choroid is sometimes the seat of a tumor, which is probably of the nature of scrofulous tubercle, or of fibro-plastic tumor. It separates the membrane in two lamina;, between which it is deposited. Much more frequently have non-malignant growths been observed in the anterior part of the choroid; cases have been reported by Lawrence, Saunders, Jaeger and others." For malignant tumors of the choroid, see article Eye. See Mackenzie, On the Diseases of tlie Eye. 4th edition. _18S4; Bowman, Lectures on the Parts concerned in the Operations on the. Eye. 1849; and Dr. Stelhvag von Carion, Die Oph- thalmologie, 1857.] C. Bader. CICATRISATION. [The formation of a cicai/'U' or scar is the completion of the process by which open wounds and ulcers are healed. The word cicatrix is commonly taken to signify, both the outward mark or scar or patch, and the material of which it is composed. In the article Repaiu, it is shown that the lymph or reparative material of the blood, is capable of being developed into fibrous tissue, epithelium, and bone; and that the accessory structures, such as vessels and nerves, are developed within it. Cicatrisation, then, of skin and mucous mem- brane must bo a process in which a " solution of continuity" becomes more or less filled with fibrous tissue, and covered in with a layer of cuticle or epithelium. In tlie most perfect examples of repair, those, namely, in which the edges of a wound in the skin can be accurately adjusted together; or in which an abrasion or loss of surface can be induced to heal under a scab; and in which the repair is ac-