268 vey matters from tlie upper to the lower end. This case is most easy of cure. In the other, no trace of such a cliannel is discoverable ; and the jutting angle, the e'peron, between the two orifices of the intestine, forms a barrier which the intestinal matter cannot pass. Thus the difficulties are greater, and the resources of surgery less certain. (See Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t- ii. p. 203.) What- ever may have been the original state of this projecting angle, after a certain time it does not divide the bottom of the funnel-shaped tube, where the orifices of the intestine are, into two equal parts ; because it is propelled towards the lower portion of the bowel, by the pressure of the mat- ters passing through the orifice of the upper end. By degrees the orifice of the lower end becomes covered by it as by a valve, and is detected with difficulty. Towards the interior of the bowel, Dupuytren found that the eperon had constantlj"- the shape of a crescent, while towards the cavity of the abdo- men the two equal halves of it diverged from one another to receive the mesentery in the interspace. The e'peron, therefore, is composed of a single wall only at its sharp edge, and everywhere else it consists of two parietes, leaving between them a triangular interval, which becomes greater as the two portions of the bowel recede from one another in their course into the abdomen. From this latter disposition, says Dupuytren, a fact of the highest importance arises ; viz. that the cavities of the two ends of the intestine are separated from one another by a double septum, the smfaces of which, on the side towards the bell}', are smooth, and free from all adhesion together. To get, therefore, from one of these cavities into the other, through their parietes, the cavity of the peritoneum must of necessity be pervaded : hence the diffi-' culty and danger in trying to form a communica- tion between the two ends of the bowel by attacking the septum between them. (See Dupuytren, Cli- nique Chir. t. ii. p. 204.) Another interesting circumstance, explained by Dupuytren, is, that the jutting angle, and double septum, the continuation of it, are not invariably so fixed as to be totally incapable of advancing or receding; but, being connected with the mesentery, they are, in a certain degree, obliged to follow the movements communicated by it to them. Some- times, when hernia is combined with adhesions, the mesentery, which becomes elongated, and forms a cord between the spine and the displaced bowel, keeps the trunk immutably bent forwards. In cases of artificial anus, the end of this cord, cor- responding to the intestine, is attached to the bottom of its angle on the side towards the belly, precisely at the base of the e'peron interposed be- tween the two orifices. Hence the e'peron, and the bowel terminating at it, must be continually drawn towards the cavity of the abdomen by the mesentery : and tlius wc may discern how the motion iind posture of the trunk backward should have a favourable influence in promoting a spon- taneous cure. Sometimes, however, the tension of the mesenteric cord ruptures the adhesions of the ends of tlie bowel to the parietes of the abdo- men, and causes a fatal cITusion of intestinal matter within the peritoneum. Long after the sponta- neous cure of an artificial anus, the eftect of this action of the mesentery may be to separate the bowel completely from the parietes of the abdomen, ANUS. and restore it to its free and floating condition again. Dupuytren ascertained this fact by post mortem examinations ; a fact, which he would have had difficulty in crediting, if he had not been per- fectly certain of the identity of the individuals, and had not detected in each of them a fibrous cord extending from the point of the parietes of the ab- domen, corresponding to the fonner artificial anus, to the bowel. (See Clinique Chir. t. ii. p. 206.) It is then in the deeper part of the funnel- shaped tube, which, as we have seen, lies between the opening in the skin and the bottom of the artificial anus, that the most remarkable and im- portant dispositions of an artificial anus are placed. Here are situated the orifices of the two ends of the intestinal canal, and the septum between them. Of these two orifices, one belongs to the upper part of the bowel ; and, being always pervaded by alimentary matter, or faeces, is the freer and larger; the other is continuous with the lower portion of the bowel ; and since it transmits no alimentary nor fsecal matter, or only trivial quantities, it is usually narrow, contracted, and not readily detected. [The intermediate funnel-shapedcavity, described by Scarpa, being formed by the remains of the hernial sac, is of course only met with in those cases of artificial anus which result from strangu- lated hernia. When the affection is produced in any other way, there is no cavity of this kind, and consequently, the two orifices' of the bowel and the projecting septum are then much nearer the surface, and the contents pass more directly from the upper orifice at once out at the wound. The presence of the intermediate cavity is, in many instances, of great utility in promoting a spontaneous cure ; for if the intestinal matters, after they have passed from the upper portion of the bowel into this cavit)', can re-enter its lower portion more readily than they can escape by the fistulous opening on the surface, the latter may gradually contract and close, and a natural cure be effected. In such a case the lost portion of intestine is in fact replaced by the remains of the hernial sac. It may be stated, therefore, that, cmteris paribus, there is a greater probability of the intestinal matters resuming their natural course without surgical interference, in artificial anus from hernia, than in artificial anus from other causes.] Desault, after noticing the efliciency of the ad- hesions, between the injured part of the bowel and the edge of the opening in the parietes of the ab- domen, in preventing extravasation, remarks, that if such adhesions were entire, the abdominal parietes would form a substitute for the portion of the canal which has been destroyed, and tlie contents of the bowel would continue to pass, as usual, towards the anus, were it not that the por- tions of the intestine separated and adherent to the neiglibouring parts, form such an acute angle as obstructs the passage of the intestinal matter. 1 he more acute this angle is, the greater is the obstruc- tion ; when the two parts of the bowel lie nearly parallel, the entrance into the lower portion of the canal is completely prevented ; but if they meet at a ri^ht angle, then more or less of the contents of the°upper portion may be transmitted mto the lower. The first disposition chiefly happens when a considerable part of the intestinal canal has been destroyed, or «hen the tube has been completely divided ; while the second is principally rcmaiKea ill cases where the injury has been less cx-