ABDOMEN. found in the abscess ; Fdit, Traite cle Mai. Chir. t. ii. p. 226 ; an awl, without a handle, extracted from an alsccss of the cdjdomen ; and many other analogous cases.) Encj'sted tumours are occasionally formed be- tween the peritoneum and abdominal muscles, and attain an immense size before they burst; a re- markable specimen of which is described by Gooch, (C/«>. Worhs, vol. ii, p. 144, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1792.) In this case, the spontaneous opening in the navel was enlarged with caustic, and the cyst extracted ; but, before a cure could be eifected, it became necessary to make a depending opening, and introduce a seton. Abdomen, Pulsations in tJie.—From the article Aneurism, the reader will understand that, though it be the common nature of this disease to be at- tended witli throbbing, it is not every pulsating tumour that is an aneurism. The cases, usually called abdominal or epigastric pidtalions, often furnish a proof of the correctness of the preceding remark. The authors, who have treated of the latter affection with the greatest discrimination, are Dr. Albers, of Bremen, and Mr. Allan Burns, of Glasgow, two gentlemen, whose high reputation and useful labours will long survive the termina- sion of their meritorious lives. Some of the pul- sations here referred to are the consequence of organic disease, and capable of demonstration by dissection ; while the rest are not attended with any such appearance, and have therefore been re- garded as nervous. The pulsation is not idways produced by the impulse communicated to a solid tumour, or substance between the hand and the arterj', but was conceived by Mr. Burns to be sometimes dependent on a nervous affection of the vessel itself. ( On Diseases of the Heart, p. 2G3.) Hippocrates refers to three patients affected with extraordinary pulsations in the abdomen. As one of these cases seemed to depend upon ob- structed menses, it was probably not the result of any organic disease. {Hippocratis Opera Omnia, ex edit. Fcesii Francof. 1621, lib. v. sect. 7, p. 1144.) In order to remove a difficulty in be- lievhig how an artery, not affected with anemismal enlargement, can communicate to the superincum- bent parts such movements as are frequently re- marked in cases of abdominal pulsations, a fact pointed out by Mr. Hunter should be remembered: in speaking of the actual dilatation of an artery, he says, that when the vessel is " covered by the m- teguments, the apparent effect is much greater than it really is in the artery itself ; for, in laying £uch an artery bare, the nearer we come to it, the less visible is its pulsation : and when laid bare its motion is hardly either to be felt or seen. (On the Blood, ^-c. p. \7'>, 4to. Lond. 1794.) And this observation will apply to all tumours and indurations situated over a large artery. In the epigastric region of a certain patient, Taberranus felt not only a pulsation, but a tumour as large as the fist, with all the other usual symptoms of an aneurism. On opening the body after death, he was therefore surprised to find, instead of this disease, a considerable scirrhous tumour in the middle of the mesenter}-, so closely connected to the large vessels as to compress the aorta, by the pulsations of which it had been lifted up. {Obs. Anat. ed. 2, No. 9.) Mr. Loudon, of Leammgton, sent me the par- ticulars of a case, where the pulsations of the aorta against a diseased liver, extending across the epigastrium, and occasioning a well-defined tumour at the pit of the stomach, had been mistaken by several practitioners for an aneurism of the aorta, which vessel was found after death perfectly sound. I once visited with Mr. Miller, of Keppell Street, a thin old man for retention of urine, where the tumour, formed by distended bladder above the pubes, was attended with regular and strong pulsations, corresponding to those of the arteries. I am not aware that any similar case is upon record. In an example recorded by Stork, the symp- toms arose from disease of the pancreas, which weighed thirteen pounds, and contained a large cyst filled with lamellated blood. (Annus Medicus, Vindob. 1760, p. 245.) A man, aged 60, complained of pain in the left side, midway between the umbilicus and crista of the ilium, followed by emaciation, weakness, dis- tress of countenance, anorexia, and constipation. At length, a large pulsating tumour was discovered in the epigastric region. The case was now prc- nounced aneurism of the abdominal aorta. There was no nausea nor vomiting, except a few days be- fore death, when a quantity of fetid blackish fluid was twice or thrice voided. No fever. The swelling caused a sense of constriction rather than pain, and the throbbing became more perceptible. The pulse was feeble, but sloiv ajid regidar. After death, the stomach was found adliering to the liver, pancreas, and peritoneum; and a cancerous tumour occupied its internal surface from the duodenum to the insertion of the oesophagus, its coats being an inch thick. The surface of the pancreas was also diseased, and the pj'lorus, situated in the midst of the cancerous mass, was contracted by the thickening of the parietes of the stomach, and obstructed by numerous fungi. The liver was large, but apparently sound ; the spleen small. The aorta, the cceliac trunk, and its branches icere quite natural. (See Journ. de Med. par Lcroiw, Oct. 1815.) Abdominal pulsations are described by Zuliani, as a symptom of hypochondriasis and hj'steria. {De Apoplexia, Lips. 1790, p. 79.) They also happen in certain febrile diseases. ( Versuch uber den Pemphygus nnd das Blaienfiebcr, con C. G. C. Braime. Leipz. 179S, s. 23 ; and Dr. R. Jackson on the Fevers of Jamaica, 8vo. Lond. 1791.) Thilenius observed a flatulence of the stomach, which, in some patients, was attended with pulsa- tions at the scrobiculus cordis. (Med. Chir. Be- me;-/,-, Frankf. 1709, s. 211—217.) My friend, Mr. Hodgson, in speaking of pulsations m the epi- gastrium, which are not the consequence of organic disease, and occur in irritable hypochondriac sub- jects, states his opinion, that, in some instances, these pidsations are a consequence of distension of the stomach with air, which is thrown against the abdominal muscles by the pulsation of the great blood vessels : and in such cases, the tlirobbing is diminished by the eructations, (On the Diseases of Arteries and Veins,-p. , Dr Albers detailed some cases which fell under his own notice. A young woman, whose menses were upon her, and who had been for some days constipated, was seized with frequent fainting fits and febrile symptoms, occasionally voiding from the bowels a quantity of dark matter, each evacuation of which was followed by a swoon. One morning