Y 3 Lilt it is still a question, in almost all cases, whether they were not originally mere deposits of fibrin, which have subsequently become organised. They are certainly not so frequent as formerly supposed, since it has been shown, that masses presenting the appearance of vascularity are often coloured only with blood and ai-e devoid of vessels. The signifi- cation of these growths, as such, to the surgeon, is totally difierent from clots and concretions, since the state of the blood, or of the membrane, from which they proceed, may have been temporary or quite local, although the mechanical effects of or- ganised and inorganic masses are similar. As orga- nised growths they are not treated of in this article. 2. Coagulation of the blood may occur in the heart or blood-vessels just as in extravasated blood. It was held at one time, that this could only take place at or a short time before death, but the converse is now known to be true. In pi: BrigkCs Hospital Reports, cases are recorded in which coagula were distinctly observed in the jugular and subclavian veins ten or twelve days before death. Clots were met with which could be moved from one part of the basilic vein to another. In one case recorded {Edinb. Med. and Sury. Journal, vol. liii.), a solid, greyish-white, perfectly formed clot, one inch and a half long, was pressed through an orifice made for bleeding six weeks before death, and after death almost all the vessels contained coagulated blood and fibrin- ous clots. Coagulation of the blood entire is by no means so frequent an occurrence as a mere de- posit of fibrin, but it may happen in any part of the vascular system without necessarily resulting in death. The condition of a blood clot found in the vessels after death, as to density and general characters, is in many cases a measure of the state of the blood in these respects as it circulated during life. 3. Fibrin may be separated from the blood as it circulates, and may concrete into masses of various forms and dimensions, or in layers, cylin- ders, or tubes. It may block up the cavities of the heart or blood-vessels, but its aggregation in this form must be a progressive process. This is a much more frequent occurrence than the coagula- tion of the blood entire. In some cases these circumstances may combine in the production of solid masses in the heart and vessels. There may be an organised growth ioiva- ir\g a point d'appui for the deposit of fibrin, and ultimately coagulation of the blood, or a fibrinous deposit mixed with a blood clot. It has been held that the formation of clots and concretions only taking place a very short period before death, they are the consequences of the dying state. No doubt this is often the case, but in many instances they are clearly shown to be the immediate cause of death, both rapid and pro- tracted, and sometimes of sudden death, even in morbid conditions which at the time gave no indications of a fatal tendency. The appearances presented by coagula, whether produced before, at the period of, or subsequent to, dcivth, are o.ttremely various. They depend on the condition of the blood, and the states of the system which give rise to them, and are modified by the period at which the coagulation takes place before death, and tiie part of the vascular system in which they occur. As in blood drawn from a vein, they may be firm or loose, dil- BLOOD, COAGULATION OF, DURING LIFE. 325 fluent, grumous, or tar-like ; they may consist of a bufiy clot containing no red corpuscles ; in colour they may be red, white, or yellowish, or red externally, and white internally, or the con- verse ; they may form in irregular masses, in con- centric layers, or as hollow tubes ; and they may be loose or attached to the lining membrane, the attachment varying greatly in extent and degree ; and the membrane may exhibit an increased vas- cularity or may be perfectly smooth and polished. Cases of " highly vascular polypi," in the auricles and ventricles, have been described, which in their origin are no other than blood clots ; and, as oc- curring in the large vessels, they are often de- scribed as being extremely vascular, covered with membrane, and interspersed with spicula of bone ; or as bufFy clots " bloodshot from entangled red corpuscles." The period antecedent to death at which coagula were formed is not only indicated by these appearances, but also by the state of de- composition of the clots, their tendency being to degenerate, and to be subsequently removed by the circulating current. Clots are sometimes found firm at the outside, soft within, and containing serum. Old fibrinous coagula soften in the centre, and are' converted into a dirty, fawn-coloured or reddish-brown material ; the softening sometimes extending through the whole mass, with the ex- ception of a thin layer at the circumference, form- ing a kind of cyst ; or the interior may be more like pus, and the whole may resemble an abscess. These pseudo-cysts or pseudo-abscesses may burst and discharge their contents, which must then be mixed ^yith the circulating blood. Or the clot, being thin, may be broken up gradually, and its debris may mix with the blood in larger or finer particles, and may act mechanically on being con- veyed to distant parts, either obstructing vessels or forming nuclei for new coagula ; or the products of the blood clot may poison the blood and produce typhoid and other symptoms. When large soft clots are found in the heart, the aorta and vena cava containing a fluid in which there is no fibrin at all, when they contain little or none of the colouring matter of the blood, although adherent to the walls of the heart, when colourless fibrin, more or less similar to the buffy coat of the blood, is placed at that part of the clot, which, in the position of the body is at the highest level, the under part becoming gradually more deep-coloured and less firm, the blood was fluid at death, and the clots were formed at the period of death or subsequentl3\ The qualities which these clots present are nevertheless a measure of those of the blood during life. When the congula adhere firmly to the heart or vessels ; when the membrane to which they are attached is rough, vascular, sprinkled witli bloody spots, orotherwise diseased, or they consist of fibrinous masses modelled to the contaiuiiiK parts, or grooved by currents of blood, or forniiiiK perfect tubes enclosing a column of blood and re- sombiing nn additional coat to the vessel, or pre- senting concentric layers ; when a firm, white, fibrous layer is found entirely detached from a dark purple or mixed coagulum, filling up a cavity • and \yhen changes, the result of degeneration or organisation arc observed in one clot and are absent 111 otiicrs, in almost all these cases the blood lias coagulated a considerable period before death. Tile causes of the coagulation of the blood dur-