Science, vol. iii. p. 341.) The mouth of the , CUPPING. WI.en business, or other circumstances, prevent he patient from adopting tl.is plan, und^LIil to remove all pressure from the corii. For this purpose, from eight to twelve pieces of linen smeared with an emollient plaster, and havine an aperture cut in the middle, exactly adapted to the size of the corn, are to be laid over each other and so applied to the foot, that the corn is to lie in he opening, in such a manner that it cannot be touched by the shoe or stocking. When the plaster has been applied some weeks, the corn commonly disappears, without any other means, bhould the corn be in the sole of the foot, it is only necessary to put in the shoe a felt sole, where- in a hole Jias been cut, corresponding to the situa- tion, size, and figure of the induration. A corn may also be certainly, permanently, and speedily eradicated by the following method, es- pecially when the plaster and felt sole with a hole in It are employed at the same time. The corn is to be rubbed t wice a day with an emollient ointment, such as that of marshmallows, or with the liniment of ammonia, which is still better; and in the interim, IS to be covered with a softening plaster. Every morning and evening, the foot is to be put for half an hour in warm water; and whilst there, the corn IS to be well rubbed with soap. Afterwards, all the soft, white, pulpy outside of the corn is to IS to be left off the moment the patient begins to complain of pam from it. The same treatment is to be persisted in, without interruption, until the corn as totally extirpated, which is generally effected in eight or twelve days. If left off sooner, the corn grows again. A multitude of other remedies for curing corns are recommended. They all possess, more or Jess, an emollient and discutient property. The prmcipal are green-wax, soap, mercurial and hemlock plasters, a piece of green oil-skin, &c. Ibey are to be applied to the corn, and renewed as often as necessary. A successful composition consists of two ounces of gum ammoniacum, the same quantity of yellow wax, and six drachms of superacetate of copper. In a fortnight, if the corn yet remain, a fresh plaster is to be applied. It is frequently diiBcult and hazardous to cut out a corn. The whole must be completely taken away, or else it grows again; and the more fre- quently it is partially cut away, the quicker is its growth rendered. When the skin is moveable, and, consequently, the corn not adherent to the subjacent parts, its excision may be performed with facility and safety, but not without pain, -uut, m the opposite case, eitiier leaving a piece of the corn behind, or wounding the parts beneath, can seldom be avoided. Mr. Wardrop recommends cutting, or tearing awaj', as much of the corn as can be done with safety ; then keeping the toe for some time in warn water; and after the adjacent skin lias been well "ned, rubbing the exposed surface of the corn witli the argcntum nitratum, or wetting it, by the means of a camel's-hair pencil, with a solution of the oxymuriate of mercury in spirit of wine. rpmnT^ T. applications, two or three times rv -r'.''^''' '^''^ "'°^^^y ''^'"'^ « '^"•■e. (See ^'Jed. Uiti: Truns. vol. v. p. 140.) TV,. recommends the emplov- "icnt of nitrate of silver nearly in tlie same manner W'-'^^^'OP; The corn is to be softened by keeping the foot m warm water for half an hour As much of the corn is then to be removed wUh a s^^ai-p knife as can be done without m^ik'ng I wound. The corn and surrounding skin are then to be moistened with warm water, and the nitrate of silver rubbed on the corn very freely and liSt 1? on the skin, so as not to occasion vesication. The part IS then to be exposed in order that it may become dry. About the fourteenth day, when the cuticle around the corn is peeling off, the foot is to beputm warm water again, and the nitrate of silver, and as much of the subjacent corn as possible re- moved with a knife Then the nitrate o^f silver is to beieapplied and the plan repeated, till the corn use of Nitrate of Silver, p. 177 ed 2 "1 out of the axis of sight, or the displacement, breaking, and disturbance of the opaque lens in various ways with a kind of needle formed for these purposes, so as to bring about the dispersion and absorption of the cataract. (See Cataract -> COUVRE CHEF. The name of a bandage (isee Banbage.) pS^^J'S^- Joints, Diseases of.) CRANIUM, FRACTURES OF. (See Head, Injuries of.) CREOSOTE. (See Kreosote.) CREPITUS. The grating sensation, or noise, occasioned by the ends of a fracture, when they are moved and rubbed against each other ; one of the most positive symptoms of the existence of such an accident. CUPPING is performed by means of a scari- licator, and a glass, shaped somewhat like a bell 1 he scarificator is an instrument containing a number of lancets, sometimes as many as twenty which are so contrived, that when the instrument IS applied to any part of the surface of the body and a spring is pressed, they suddenly start out, and make the necessary punctures. The depth to which the lancets penetrate, may be made greater or less, at the option of the practitioner. As only small vessels can be thus opened, a very incon- siderable quantity of blood would be discharged, were not some method taken to promote the eva- cuation. This is commonly done with a cupping, glass, the air within the cavity of which is rarified by the flame of a small lamp, containing spirit of wme, and furnished with a thick wick. This plan IS preferable to that of setting on fire a piece of tow, dipped in this fluid, and put in the cavity of the glass: "a clumsy expedient, adding unne- cessarily to the sufferings of the patient, by caute- rizing the skin ; doing liarm also by rarifying the air more than necessary within the glass, in conse- quence of which the edges of the cup compress the cutaneous vessels so much as to obstruct the influx of blood. The larger the glass, if properly ex- hausted, the less pain docs the patient sufter, and the more freely does the blood flow." (See Maplesonon the Art of Cupping,Tfi'f. 03—05. 12mo. Loud. IU13.) According to Dr. Osborne, tliosc cupping-glasses which have broad spreading edges are far inferior, both in convenience of application and in power of preserving a vacuum, to those with perpendicular edges. He also recommends an assortment of cupping-glasses with oval and other shaped innuths. (See Dublin Joiirn. of ]\lcti.