170 securing iirteries, in various operations, with com- plete success ; the wounds licaled quickly over it, Mr. Fielding has the merit of having first used it successfully in operations on the Iniman body. (See Trans, of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh, vol. ii. p. 340.) A few years ago, Mr. Lawrence extended to operations for aneurism the method of tying the artery with a small firm silk ligature, the whole of which is immediately afterwards cut off, with tlie exception of the noose and knot, and an endeavour then made to heal the wound by the first intention. In a case of popliteal aneurism, Mr. Carwardine, late of Thaxted, tied the femoral artery in this manner, and the wound united entirely by the first intention, not a particle of pus having been formed at any time; and the part continued per- fectly sound at the distance of some months from the operation. On the 29th of March, 1817, I saw Mr. Lawrence try the practice m a similar case: with the exception of the integuments, the wound united by adhesion. However, it con- tinued to discharge a small quantity of matter till the end of Maj', when the ligature came away, and it healed firmly. In an aneurism of the bra- chial artery, Mr. R. Watson, of Stourport, Wor- cestershire, tied that vessel and cut off the ends of the ligature, as proposed by Mr. Lawrence. The operation was done on the 2nd of March, and the wound was quite healed by the 10th of April On the 3rd of May, a small tubercle which had been felt under the skin in the centre of the cicatrix, appeared above the skin, and proved to be the knot of the ligature. There was no in- flammation, nor discharge; but the ring of the ligature was firmly impacted in the centre of the cicatrix. In about a week from this time, the whole of it was expelled. In another case, where Mr. Hodgson tied the ulnar artery, and cut off the ends of the small ligature, the skin healed over the vessel, but a firm almost cartilaginous knot gradually formed, from the centre of which the bit of ligature was extracted five or six months afterwards by a small puncture. (For additional observations, see Med. Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p, 490, fee) Although Mr. Carwardine's case is a strong one in favour of this method, I apprehend that, on the whole, the cures on record thus effected cannot be said to liave been completed sooner then others generally have been, in which one end of the small circular ligature was left for the removal of the noose. Thus, in two aiscs, where the practice was tried by Jlr. Norman, of Hatn, the results were by no means encouraging. In one of these instances, a part of the wound appeared to have united by the first intention, but matter afterwards formed, and it ivas a cojisiderable time before the ulcer healed. Tiie ligature was never seen to come away ; but from the circumstance of the suppuration, Mr. Norman apprehends that it must have been voided. In a second example, the attempt to procure a permanent adhesion of the parts over the ligature did not succeed ; a long and troublesome suppuration ensued, and the wound was not healed till the latter end of April, though the operation was done on the 7th of March. {Norman, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. x. p. 1-20, 121.) As catgut, however, was employed for the ligatures in these two operations, I do not know that it is fair to consider the method exactly ANEURISM. ke that recommended by Mr. Lawrence, who particularly directs very small ligatures of dentist's silk to be used. But, besides the different mate- ial employed, we are left uninformed of the thick- ness of the catgut; and, in this respect, also, thi re wi.uld probably be no greater similarity between the ligatures of these gentlemen than there was in regard to the substances of which such ligatures were made. In favour of catgut as a ligature, when the ends of it are to be cut off, a case pub- lished by Sir Astley Cooper deserves particular notice. The wound was found completely united on the fourth day after the operation, notwith- standing the patient was eighty years of age. The catgut, previously to its application was softened in warm water. The recovery was complete; a fact, strongly proving the propriety of not reject- ing an operation on account of age, if no other objection exists. (See Surgical Essays, part i, 126.) Sir Astley afterwards renounced both the use of catgut ligatures, .and the plan of cut- ting off both ends of each ligature. With respect also to silk ligatures, it seems that little abscesses and hard knots occur even after their use in this manner, and these inconveniences have deterred surgeons generally from adopting the innovation. M. Manec tried the plan with ligatures composed of various animal substances, silk, catgut, filaments of nerves, tendons, &c.; and the result was, that the wound was never healed by adhesion over the extraneous substance, without abscesses afterwards forming for its discharge. Dupuytren observed the same thing. Lisfranc was a witness of two cases, in which the ligature was not absorbed, and severe consequences ensued. {De I'Obliteration des Arteres, p. 55.) Some American surgeons, and especially Drs. Physic and Levert, tied the artery with lead, gold, silver, or platina wire, and then cut off the ends of such ligature. They were led to adopt this plan by the consideration of the little irritation sometimes resulting from the presence of a metallic substance in the textures of the body, as illustrated in gunshot wounds. In ex- periments on animals, the artery was obliterated by the metallic wire, the part of which, left in the wound, became included in a kind of little cyst, where it remained without inconvenience. It does not appear that the practice was ever tried on the human subject. However, I join Lisfranc in the belief, that if it were tried, it would be found liable to the objections urged agamst silk and catgut ligatures used in this way. (Z)e L'Obliteration des Arteres, p. 57.) Be it recol- lected, also, that a bullet, or other metallic body, only occasionally lies in parts without causing inconvenience: much more frequently it tends to make its way outward, and bring on suppu- ration and idceration. I coincide, then, with M. Lisfranc, and the great body of English and French surgeons, that, as the plan of removmg both ends of the ligature brings no advantage to coun- terbalance its inconveniences, it should be relin- quished, and the preference given to the method of cutting off only one end, and leaving the other haiKMUg out of the wound. (Op. cit. p. 58.) In cases of aneurism, a single small ligature, com- posed of dentist's silk, common silk, thread, mkle or twine, is now usually preferred by the majonty of surgeons in England; but, as the r-g'" of ligatures are elsewhere con sidered (see Uemou- uMAOi: and LiGATUKE),! need not here dwell upon