524 natural situation, powerful extension of the limb was made at a right angle with the body ; the dislocation, however, could not be reduced. The short head of the biceps and the coraco-brachialis were next divided, and forcible extension again made, so as to draw the humerus downwards ; but it now became evident that the obstacle to reduc- tion was the tendon of the long head of the biceps, which was so situated as to prevent the passage of the head of the bone to the glenoid cavity ; and during extension this tendon was rendered more tense in proportion to the degree of force applied. The OS humeri was afterwards readily replaced in the glenoid cavity, by turning the tendon with the handle of a scalpel over the head of the bone." (See Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations, edited by B. Cooper, p. 385, 1842.) Sijmptoms of the Dislocation bacJavards.—The dis- location backwards is particularly characterised by a hard tumor under the spine of the scapula ; and by the somewhat increased length of the arm,. The mo- tions of the arm are impaired, but not in so great a degree as in the foregoing cases. [The flattening of the shoulder is only noticeable anteriorly, and the depression under the acromion can only be felt in that situation.] In one example, related by Mr. Toulmin, of Hackney, the arm could be moved considerably either upwards, or downwards ; 'but, motion forwards, or backwards, was very limited. And from the observations of Mr. Coley, of Bridge- north, it would seem, that this dislocation may be attended with the peculiarity of the arm lying close to the side. {Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations, p. 441—443.) In two cases, brought to the Middlesex Hos- pital, the arm hung by the side, without being directed forwards or outwards. (See Loud. Med. Gaz. 1832, 1833, p. 478, and 1833, 1834, p. 142.) The same fact was noticed in a case reduced by Mr. Morton in University College Hospital. In the cases reported from the Middlesex Hos- pital, the accident occurred as follows : — In one example, the patient was reaching down a box from the top of another, which was on a bedstead. In doing this, her arm was extended upwards and forwards, the hand being placed so as to receive the box, when this suddenly slipped off the other, and she felt her right arm give waj', and fall powerless by her side. In the other, the patient, a woman, aged 94, trod upon some orange-peel, slipped, and fell on the forepart of the shoulder. [Another case in an old woman has been re- corded by Dr. H. M. CoUes, also caused bj' slip- ping, and falling on the anterior part of her shoulder. (See Dublin Quart. Journ. vol. xx. 1855, p. 57.) Direct violence, indeed, appears to be the most frequent cause of this dislocation.] In a dead subject, Boyer remarked a singular inclination of tlie glenoid cavity backwards, its articular surface also presenting on this side an extraordinary elongation, and the humerus readily slipping under the spine of the scapula. {Mai. C/iir. t. iv. p. 17C.) In the patient, whose history was published by M. Fizeau, and in whom a dis- location of the humerus outwards and , backwards was seen both by that gentleman and Boyer, there was also the peculiarity, that the luxation was readily reproduced. {Jouni. de Med. par Cor- risarl, ^-e. t. x. p. 306.) Hence, Boyer suspects that this rare kind of displacement nuist have been facilitated by some preternatural disposition DISLOCATION. of the articular surfaces. Experience proves, how ever, that this is not an essential or even acommiu. circumstance. [Sir A. Cooper only met with two examples ol this dislocation in 38 years, and he therefore con- sidered it nn extremely rare accident. It is, how- ever, not quite so uncommon as he supposed ; Malgaigne refers to thirty-five recorded examples, three of which came under his own immediate ob- servation. Four cases have been seen by the present editor, Mr. S. Lane. In these latter, there was great similarity in the symptoms. In all, the dislo- cated limb was hanging down, with the forearm and hand advanced somewhat in front of the body; the elbow was only slightly flexed, and nearly in con- tact with the side; the hand assumed a position of pronation. The limb, measured from the acromion to the point of the olecranon, was somewhat shorter than that of the opposite side. One of the patients was under observation for 10 years, another for 5 or 6; in neither of these did the displacement recur. The remaining two were hospital patients, and did not return for advice.] Dissection of the Dislocation bachwards.—Sir A. Cooper has given an account of the dissection of an old dislocation backwards. The accident had happened seven years previously—in a paroxysm of epilepsy. It was reduced without difficulty by extension, but the bone would not remain in the glenoid cavity. The head of the os humeri was found to occupy the space between the inferior costa and spine of the scapula. The tendon of the subsca- pularis muscle and the internal portion of the capsular ligament, had been torn at the insertion of that muscle ; but the greater part of the posterior portion of the capsule remained, and had been thrust back with the head of the bone, the back part of which it enveloped. The supra-spinatus muscle was put upon the stretch ; the subscapularis was diminished by want of action ; and the infra- spinatus and teres minor muscles were shortened and relaxed, as the head of the bone carried their insertions backwards. The tendon of the long head of the biceps was carried back with the head of the bone and elongated, but it was not torn. The laceration of the tendon of the subscapularis muscle probably accounted for the head of the bone not remaining in its natural cavity when reduced. {Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations, edited bt/ D. Cooper, p. 394.) M. Laugier dissected a recent case of dislocation backwards, in which the tendon of the subscapu- laris was in like manner torn from its insertion. The supra-spinatus was also torn, and the head of the bone, having passed between the infra-spinatus and teres minor, was in contact with llie under sur- faceofthe deltoid musdo. Anotherdislocationback- wards was dissected by M. Maisonncuve. In this case the c;ipsule was torn at its superior, extern:il, and posterior parts, the great tuberosity was broken off, and was retained under the coraco-acromial ligament by the tendons of the supra and infra- spinati muscles. The head of the bone, having passed between the latter muscle and the teres minor, was covered only by the deltoid. The teres minor and subscapularis preserved their humeral attachments. The long tendon of the biceps had torn tlie fibrous sheath \yhicli retains it in its groove. (See Malgaigne, t. ii. p. 537, and pl- xxii.) , Many other deiaclied dissections of the diHercnt