GUNSHOT WOUNDS. distorted, and swollen, and abscesses had formed round and in the neighbourhood of the fractured extremities of the bones. In some instances, these abscesses had extended down the thigh; but more frequently they passed upwards, and occupied the region of the hip-joint and buttocks. In several instances, in which incisions had been made for the evacuation of matter, the fractured and exfoliating extremities of the bones, sometimes comminuted, and sometimes forming the whole cylinder, could be felt bare, rough, and extensively separated from the soft parts which surrounded them. In other instances, these extremities were partially enclosed in depositions of new bone, which, from the quan- tity thrown out, seemed to be present in a morbid degree. It was obvious that, in all of these cases, several months would be required for the reunion of the fi-actured extremities; that, in some, much pain and misery was still to be endured from the processes of suppuration, ulceration, exfoliation, and ejection of dead bone ; that, in some cases, the patients were incurring great danger, from hectic fever, and from diarrhcea; that the ultimate re- covery in most of them was doubtful, and that, of those in whom this might take place, there was but little probability that any would be able to use their limbs ! The sight of these cases (says Dr. Thomson) made a deep impression upon my mind, and has tended to increase my conviction that this is, of all others, the class of injuries in which im- mediate amputation is most indispensably required." (See OLs. S{c. in Belgium, p. 254—258.) Dr. Thomson adds, that what has been said of the danger of fractures, produced by musket- bullets, in the upper part of the femur, is true in a still greater degree of those which have their seat in the neck or head of that bone. In such instances. Dr. Thomson joins the generality of modern army surgeons in strongly recommending amputation at the hip-joint, a subject of which I have already spoken. (See Amputation.) [The more recent experience of the Crimea has confirmed the dangerous nature of these severe injuries of the thigh-bone, and the amputations which many of the cases underwent were followed by scarcely better results. In amputations of the upper third of the thigh there were few recove- ries. The French and Russians eventually almost abandoned operations on this portion of the limb. Amputations at the middle and lower third were much more successful. The following table, Primary. Secondary. itions. n 0) Q. • ■*-» itions. tA U CU o Open Deatl Ratio Cer Opert Deatl SO Upper third .. .. 38 33 86-8 1 1 100 Middle third ,. .. 56 31 55-3 9 7 77-7 Lower third .. .. 46 23 50-0 H 10 71.4 extracted from the History of tlie Crimean War, from the 5th of April 1855 to the close of the war, the only period in which the returns distinguish the results at the upper middle and lower third, Shows the relative mortality of each.] On Gunshot Wounds in which Amputation may be deferred. If, ays Baron Larrey, it be possible to specify the cases in which amputation ought to be immedi- ately performed, it is impossible to determine d priori those which will require the operation subsequently. One gunshot wound, for example, will be cured by ordinary treatment, while another, that is at first less severe, will afterwards render amputation indispensable, whether this be owing to the patient's bad constitution or the febrile dis- turbance induced. However this may be, the safe rule for fulfilling the indication that presents itself, is to amputate consecutively only in circumstances in which every endeavour to save the limb is mani- festly in vain. Upon this point Larrey's doctrine differs from that of Faure. The latter practitioner admits cases, which he terms cases of tlie second kind, in which he delays amputation, not with any hope of saving the limb, but in order to let the first symptoms subside. The operation, done between the fifteenth and twentieth day, appears to him less dangerous than when per- formed immediately after the receipt of the injury. At the above period, according to M. Faure, the commotion occasioned by the gunshot injiuy is dispelled; the patient can reconcile himself to am- putation, the mere mention of which fills the pu- sillanimous with terror in a greater or lesser degree; the debility of the individual is no objection ; and it is laid down as an axiom " that the conse- quences of every amputation, done in the first in- stance, are in general extremely dangerous." In support of this theory M. Faure adduces ten cases of gunshot injuries, in which, after the battle of Fontenoy, the operation was delayed, in order that it might afterwards be performed with more suc- cess : a plan which, according to the author, proved completely successful. (See Prix de I'Acad, de CIdr. t. viii. e'd. in-r2.) This division of cases for amputation into two classes, not consistent with nature, Larrey con- ceives has been the cause of:» great deal of harm. Very often the partisans of M. Faure have not dared to resort in the first instance to amputation, the dangers of which they exaggerate ; while on other occasions they have amputated consecutively without any success. * Larrey argues that the effects of commotion, in- stead of increasing, gradually diminish and disap- pear after the operation. He will not even admit that the patient's alarm ought to be a reason for postponing the operation, because the patient, just after the accident, will be much less afraid of the risk which ho has to encounter than at the expira- tion of the first four-find-twentj' hours, when he has had time to reflect upon the consequences of the injury, or of amputation, a remark made by the illustrious Pare'. " Experience agreeing with my theory (saj'S Baron Larrey) has proved both to the army and navy surgeons, that the bad symptoms which soon follow such gunshot injuries as must occasion the loss of a limb, are much more to be dreaded than those of immediate amputation. Out of a vast number of the wounded, who suffered amputation in the course of the first four-and-twenty hours after the memorable naval battle of the 1st of June 17i94, a very few lost their lives. This fact has been attested by several of our colleagues, and especially by M. Fercoc, surgeon of the ship Le Jcmmapes,"