792 , . GONORRH(EA would explain the circumstance by supposing that the chancre and gonorrhcBa were\oth communi- cated at the same time by two different poisons Mr. Hunter conceives that the presence of one disease renders the adjacent parts less susceptible ot the influence of the other. _ Another defender of this side of the question is Dr. Swediaur, who endeavours to prove the ialhicy of the following positions :—1. That tlie poison which produces the clap does never, like that of chancres, produce any venereal symptoms in the mass or lues itself. 2. That the poison of the clap never produces chancres, and that the poison of chancres never produces a clap. 3. That mercury never contributes to, nor accelerates, the cure of a clap; but thai, on the contrary, every blennor- rlMgia may be certainly cured luithout mercury and Without any danger of leaving a lues behind. His arguments run thus:—the reason why claps do not, like chancres, constantly produce lues, is that most of them excite only a superficial inflam- mation in the membrane of the urethra, without any ulceration. Hence, absorption cannot easily take place, the poison being out of the course of the circulation. But he has seen claps with an ulcer m the urethra followed by the most unequivocal symptoms of lues itself. He mentions the urethra being defended with a large quantity of mucus, as the thing impeding the common formation of ulcers which do occasionally occur when the mucus is not secreted as usual, or is washed away. He asserts that in many cases, where he had occasion to ex- amine both parties, he was convinced that the cliancres were communicated by a person affected with a simple gonorrhoea ; and vice vers&, that a virulent clap had been the consequence of an in- fection from a person having merely chancres. He says that if a patient with a venereal runnino- does not take care to keep the prepuce and glans perfectly clean, chancres will very often be pro- duced. He owns that a great many claps are cured without mercury; yet, repeated experience has sho^vn him a cure cannot always be thus accom- plished. Mild cases, without ulcer or excoriation in tlie urethra, may certainly be radically cured without a grain of mercury ; and though mercurv should be given, it would not have the least ef- fect; not because the disease does not proceed from the venereal poison, but because it is out of the course of the circulation. He contends that the topical use of mercury in injections acts use fully even in these cases. But, when a clap is joined with ulceration in the urethra, it is ahvaj's cured more safely and expeditiously with mercury, and IS frequently incurable without it. A hies also follows cases attended with ulcers in the urethra. He allows that all claps are not vene- real. (See Pract. Obs. on Venereal Complaints, by J. Sivediaur.) The sentiments of Mr. B. Bell are quite at variance with those of Hunter, Sawrey, Swediaur. Adams, &c.; but, my limits will only allow me to enumerate a few of his leading arguments. it the matter of gonorrhoea and that of chancre were ot the same nature, we must admit that a person with a chancre only can communicate to fionorrL?' " J T'^ '^""^''"^ °f P"^' 1^"' "f onlv can ''"f ^^''"1 gonorrhea qrncc Tl """r' .^''•^ various conse- q"<.nco8. Tins ought indeed to be a very frequent occurrence ; whereas all allow that it is even In appearance very rare. On the supposition of the matter of gonorrhoea and of chancre being the same, the lafter ought to be a much more frequent occurrence than the former from the greater ease with which the matter of infection must in every instance, be applied to ho e parts on which it can produce chancres than that of the urethra, where, instead of chancre or ulceration, it almost always excites gonorrhoea. It IS difficult to conceive how the matter by which the disease is communicated should find access to the urethra ; while all the external parts of the penis, pai-ticularly the glans, must be easily and universally exposed to it ; and yet gonorrhcea is a much more frequent disease than pox. Cases of gonon-hoea are in proportion to those of chancre according to Mr. B. Bell's experience, as three to one. It IS obvious that the very reverse should happen if the two diseases were produced bv the same kind of matter. The grand practical consideration, depending on the possibility of the venereal disease arising from gonorrhoea, is, whether mercurials should not be exhibited, in all cases, with the view of prevent- ing such a consequence. Waiving, on my own part, all attempts to de- cide the pmnt, whether the matter of a chancre and that of one species of gonorrha;a, are of the same nature, I shall merely content myself with stating that, so far as my observation and inquiries extend the majority of the best practitioners con- sider the exhibition of mercury unnecessary and consequently improper in gonorrhoea. This fact almost amounts to a proof that, if venereal symp- toms do ever follow a clap, they are so rare, and I may add, always so imputable to other causes, that the employment of merciu-y, as a preventive, would, upon the whole, do more injury thaii benefit to mankind; and this, even admitting (what, m my mind, has never been unequivocally proved) that the matter of gonorrhoea is really capable, in a very few instances, of giving rise to the venereal disease. However, a few surgeons will not yet altogether renounce the emploj-ment of mercury in gonorrhoea. Thus, Mr. Wallace gives small doses of it with copaiba or cubebs, after the active inflammation has subsided. (See Wallace on Fen. Dis. p. 240.) Mr. Carmichael, who is a believer in a plurality of venereal poisons, inculcates the doctrine that what he terms the papular venereal disease, or chat which is characterised by a papular eruption, if the skin become affected, originates from a pecu- liar virus, which gives rise to gonorrhoea, and which is different from poisons supposed by him to excite other forms of the venereal disease. As, however, the simple primary ulcer, excoriation and gonorrhoea very frequently exist together, Mr. Carmichael suspects that they all arise from the same identical poison. (See Essay on Fen. Bis. p. 76, ed. 2. iivo. Lond. 1825.) At the same time, this gentleman concurs in the common belief, that constitutional symptoms after a gonorrhoea are very rare. "With regard to Mr, Carmichael'a views, several facts present themselves. 1. The formation of excoriations and simple sores does not necessarily require the influence of nny poison. 2. Sores, capable of imparting every form of con- stitutional syphilis, are now frequently believed by men of great experience, to present themselves in