and the patient returned to his former laborious life with his arm as strong as ever. The pulse , ut the wrist was lost in consequence of tiie ob- literation of the axillary ai-terv, and the limb only receiving blood through'the branches of the sub- t clavian artery. " y « beaucoup d'exemples d'anctir rismes yueris spoiUanhnent et suns le secours dc \ Vart (says Pelletan) ; mais on ne peict leur com- parer le cas que nous venons de decrire: VHat ex- irtme de la maladie, Venergie dcs moyens employes, et I'effet immeduite et siiccessif qui en est rh'idte, prourent assez que le succes a etc du tout cntier a l\trt." {Clinique Chir. torn. i. p. 80.) In this work we find not less than three cases in which aneurism of the aorta is stated to have been effectually cured. One instance was greatly relieved ; but the disease returned the next year in consequence of the patient's intemperate mode of life. In another example, an aneurism at the origin of the aorta was cured ; but the disease recurred in another part of that vessel further from the heart. Even such cases as proved incur- able, to the number of fourteen, all received various degrees of palliation from the treatment adopted. In Mr. Hodgson's work on Diseases of the Arteries, p. 146, 147, several other instances are adduced, in which the utility and efficacy of a debilitating plan of treatment are illustrated. In the same publication, its I have previously ex- plained, are various interesting facts, which tend to prove, that when aneurism of the aorta is lessened or cured, this great vessel itself may remain pervious. The progress of the disease is stopped by the blood coagulating in the sac, and closing the communication between the cavity of the aneurism and that of the artery. The diet should consist principally of fluids, and it should be gradually reduced. Pelletan sometimes allowed only two basins of broth in twenty-four liours, and lemonade as a common drink. Valsalva, by degrees, increased the food to half a pound of pudding in the morning, and a quarter of a pound in the evening, with a limited quantity of water. By gradual reduction, the solid food may be brought down to four ounces, and fluids to eight. Both the body and mind should be kept in the most perfect quietude ; and if the plan is to be strictly enforced, the recumbent po- sition must be constantly maintained. The fre- quent administration of purgatives, which weaken the action of the heart, is another part of this system of treatment. It must be confessed, in regard to Valsalva's mode of treatment, that some experienced men 10 not place confidence in it. Boyer declares himself against it, as not being really efficacious ; ind he states, that some time ago, it was tried :wice in the Hotel Dieu of Paris. The first trial tvas made on a patient with an axillary aneurism ^/liich could not be operated upon on account of ts situation; the second on n woman, who had m aneurism of the abdominal aorta, In both lases the tumor was large, and its parictes rc- liiced to the cellular coat and the suiroundiu!/ ellular substance. In these two aneurisms, the irogress of the swelling was rapid, and its rup- lu-o happened precisely at the moment wlion the [•oatment had been puslied to the utmost, and here ought to have been the greatest hope. IraUe dcs Mahidies Chir. t. ii. p. ]2i.) ■ Sir Astley Cooper declares, that lie has seen ANEURISM. 225 but little benefit result irora tills treatment of the disease. According to his experience, only two measures are useful ; viz. venesection when the pulse is hard and full; and the administration of the carbonate of soda in considerable doses, which, with entire rest, seem to prevent the in- crease of the swelling. But, he adds, that the soda is at length tmavoidably given up, on ac- count of its producing petechiaj. Sir Astley be- lieves, that the irritability and quickened pulse produced by antiphlogistic treatment, often do as much injury as the natural force of the circulation. {Lectures, ^c. vol. ii. p. 48.) Small occasional bleedings are safer than larwe ones. In an aneurism of the aorta, especialty when combined with organic disease of the heart, bleeding should never be carried to syncope, as, in such cases, this is apt to be alarmingly protracted, and sometimes to terminate fatally. {Sir Astley Cooper, Dr. Hope, &c.) The blood should, therefore, be drawn slowly, and in the recumbent posture. Nor should venesection be performed during a paroxysm of palpitation, as the ex- haustion consequent on it, superadded to that oc- casioned by the loss of blood, might depress the patient beyond the possibility of restoration. (See Hope, in Cyclop, of Fract. Med. art. Aorla.) M. Roux expresses hia entire disbelief in the possibility of an aneurism of the aorta beino- ever completely cured by Valsalva's mode of "treat- ment, because he imagines that such change could not happen without the tube of that great vessel becoming impervious, and of the lower parts of the body then perishing from stoppage of the cir- culation. But he bears witness to the utility of such treatment, and recites a case which he at tended himself, where an aneurism made a con- siderable projection on the left side of the sternum where the cartilages of the third and fourth ribs were raised, the throbbings very forcible, and the sense of sufl^'ocation such that the patient was obliged to keep himself constantly quiet; vet savs M. Roux, though the disease now exists, it fonus no prominence on the chest; the pulsations can only be obscurely felt between the ribs ; the res pu'ation IS but slightly oppressed ; and the patient IS capable of attending to his business. (Nou ^n^Ete,n. de Med. Oper. t. i. p. 510, 8vo. Paris, Jiilf J It any one doubt the possibility of re- tarding the progress of an aortic aneurism bv Weeding, I would refer him to a case which was laid by me before the profession not long aco The aneurism burst by a small ulcerated opening into the ccsophagus ; and after the loss of a vist quantity of blood, not only did the hemorrhatro cease lor a considerable time, but the external swelling subsided, and the base of the scant " which had been pushed forwards and bacl va d^ ?// ■ "''r'T P"«'''"" again. (Sec Med. Clnr. Trans, vol. xvi. p. ■i2i).) ^ [Aneurisms occur in connection with two distinct rdsSirf:^'^'''"'-'^"'-'^^'^-'- <cni,c condition, and thus to lessen the d h t^t't'o ; of and the pressure upon the ttrteries. This , b« o( ectec by re.st in bed, the avoidance of 1 stunul,,a,H the gradual diminution in the quanti " annual (ood that is given, with the ocksional administration of a purge, and perhaps the em-