cither type; and if the evacuations are copious, they are generally followed by great relief. But this should not lead us to imitate Dr. Kentish and others, who, observing the good effects of spontane- ous diarrhoea, have advocated the free use of pur- gatives in the treatment of the sympathetic fever after burns. The artificial purgation is something very different from the spontaneous diarrhoea. The latter must not be checked, but encouraged by the free use of diluents, so long as it is followed by re- lief ; but when it is at all exhaustive, when the evacuations are scanty, contain mucus, and are attended by pain or tenesmus, all this must be regarded as symptomatic of that form of inflamma- tion of the mucous membrane of the bowels so often found after death in the bodies of those who die from burns. In such cases it is not judicious to attempt to control the diarrhoea by astringents; but sinapisms, wai-m fomentations, and flannel bandages should be applied to the abdomen, and morphia suppositories, or enemata of starch and opium, administered by the rectum. As a case goes on, the appearance of the granu- lations upon the surface of the sore will be found a very good guide both to local and constitutional treatment. If they are small, conical, red, firm, and regular, it is certain that the constitution is in a favourable state. If they are large, soft, flabby, and purplish, both general support and local stimu- lants will be required. If they are extremely sen- sitive, the local use of nitrate of silver and the general employment of opium are called for. If they are irregular in size, gorged with blood, of a deep florid hue, and surrounded by an inflamma- tory blush, soothing local applications and general antiphlogistic treatment are indicated. When the suppurative discharge is very copious and exhausts the patient's Arength, he must be well supported by nutritious animal diet and the use of wine. Sleep should be procured by opium, and the mmeral acids, with or without ciuinine, may prove useful. The question of amputation, when a limb has been destroyed by a burn, has been decided on the following principles] : — When the whole thickness of a limb is destroj'ed, amputation ia proper, as substituting a simple wound, the cure of which will be eas}', for an eschar, or disorganised mass, the separation of which wonid be tedious, and followed by an iiregular solution of continuity, and a projection ot the bone, and other deep textures to which the action of the concentrated heat had least extended, iiesides, as Dupuytien justly observes, the oper- ation preserves the patient from the secondary inflammation which would otherwise take place, and not be free from peril. At the same time before making a decision, the surgeon is to consider the age, constitution, and strength of the patient, and whether he is in a state to bear the process by which the dead parts are to be thrown off. If he were m a condition of stupor, or inflammation had already come on, with fever, &c., the sub- sidence of these effects, and the establishment of suppuration, must be awaited; after which, a deci- sion for or against amputation should be made according to the general state of the patient or rr' 1."'! , surface. (See U„ren, Clm. Chir. 1.1. p. 400.) ^ J > [More recent experience has modified these con- clusions, inasmuch as there seems to be danger of BURS.^; MUCOSiE. pyajmia from cutting near parts injured either by extri^'me heat or extreme cold — and the practical rule seems to be established that both in cases of burns and frostbite, if the period for primary am- putation have passed over, it is advisable only to remove such portions of projecting bone as can be done without division of soft parts, and leave the separation of the latter to the processes of slough- ing, granulation, and cicatrisation, while the con- stitutional and local treatment is being carried out on the principles above inculcated.] Bibliography.—See B. Bell's&y&tem of Surgery. Medical Facts and Obs. vol. ii. J. Sedillot, l)e Am- bustione Theses, 4to. Parisiis, 1781. Cleghorn, Kc- count of a Particular Method of treating Burns and bcalds, in Med. Facts, vol. ii. p. 120. 1792. Sir.Tames harle s Essay on the Means of lessening the Effects of Fire on the Human Body, 8vo. Lond. 1799. Ken- lish s Two Essays on Burns, the first of which was published 111 1798. Parkinson, on the Application of bpint of Wine td Burns and Scalds. Memoirs of Med Soc. of London, vol. v. p. 62. 1799. Robert Lyall, in Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. vii. p. 313. Uedin, Uiss. sistens Observationes circa vulnera ex combus- tione, &c. 4to. Upsalise, 1804. Larrey, M^moires de Chirureie Mihtaire, 1.1. p. 93-96. £ov«-, Traits des nnJ"^^^^]■ P; Nodes Dickinson, on Burns and Scalds, Lond. 1818. Lectures on Inflam- mation, by John Thompson, p. 585, &c. Ediu. 1813 Andei-son, m Glasgow Medical Journ. vol. i. Gibson's Institutes of Surgery, vol. i. Philadelphia, 1824. An- dral, Precis d'Anat. Pathol, t. ii. p. 223. Travers on ^CluJ'nX^ ir'"?"'"°°' ^«26. J. Miffffinbotto^ ol the Use of the Nitrate of Silver, chap. 7, ed. 2 8vo de°ninin f;rv- ^''.^r"^"^"^"-'^"' i^e?ons 6r Jes Pari 18^0 ^?7",?^y'?A'-^v"'''- I- 8V0. fursriTdarfTfe^ti^eiro^l^^^ T. Spencer Wells. BURS^ MUCOSA. Small sacs of synovial membrane, interposed either between the perios- teum and the skin ; or between the periosteum and muscles ; or between the periosteum and tendons; flninTl 1?'^°'' '""'^ The slipper; fluid, which they secrete, serves to lubricate the surface over which it passes. The subcutaneous bursffi are either natural, like those upon the patella or the olecranon, or are developed in the common cellular tissue by pressure (See Mayo's Outlines of Human Pathology, p. 110.) It is an observa- tion made by Meckel, that it is not uncommon to hnd m some individuals cellular tissue substituted tor certain portions of serous tissue. Thus in situations where a synovial bursa is met with in one person, simple cellular tissue, conlaininii a larger quantity of lubricating fluid than usual is found in another. On the other hand, at more than one point, where commonly only cellular tissuo exists, a bursal cavity, more or less developed, is discovered. When the integuments are subjected to protracted and repeated friction, the subcutS ,s cellular tissue is transformed at the part to ' ynovial sac. In persons with club feet, Bd hrd ou„d snnilar bursas placed at the point l.Sll km suffers friction against the pro acting bones f the tarsus. When a stump is examin,^,^ i c amputation, a bursal cavit^ s Tea ,ii "'v'^'^'^.J' beneath tlm skin, at the Ltremil '"^^ Benjamin Brodie met with an instance of a bursa formed between the projecting part of aCuved «p.ne and the integuments, which at til ' oi u wore continually gliding over the bony p.- mi„P " In examples of unreduced dislocations the bones" n their new relation to one another freqSv require and receive a synovial sac in the inte spaJ^