FRACTURE. 746 be ver)' difficult for the fractured surfaces to be- come clear of each other, so as to allow shortening to take place. The case recorded by Mr. Stanley is interesting, from its pretienting some striking points of resemblance to a dislocation of the hip. The limb was shortened three-quarters of an inch and slightly everted. Tlie extremity of the shaft of the femur was in its natural situation, but be- hind it, and a little distance from it, a hony promi- nence teas discovered resting on the ilium, towards Hie great ischiatic notch, strongly resembling the head of the femur. This prominence, as was proved at the post-mortem examination, was occasioned by the posterior and larger portion of the trochanter, which was drawn backwards towards the ischiatic notch. {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiii. The treatment of the fracture through the tro- chanters may be conducted on the same principles as that of fracture of the neck of the femur. Most surgeons would probably prefer moderate continued extension by means of the Jong straight splint, while the fracture may be steadied by a broad belt buckled round the pelvis. If the. upper part of the trochanter should be inclined backwards, which appears to be frequently the case, an attempt should be made to remedy the displacement bj' pressing it forwards, if possible, with the fingers, and then supporting it by placing a thick pad be- hind it, underneath the pelvic band. Fracture of tlie trochanter major, by which this process is broken off without further injury to the neck or shaft, occasionally occurs. Sir A. Cooper relates a case, the particulars of which wei'e sent to him by Mr. Aston Key, occurring in a girl a;t. sixteen, in which this process was broken off at the point at which it is naturally united as an epi- physis. The patient had fallen in crossing the street, and struck her trochanter violently against the curb stone. She arose and walked home with- out much pain or difficulty; but four days after- wards, in consequence of the increase of pain she experienced, she applied for admission to Guy's Hospital. The injured limb was considerably everted, and apparently about half an inch longer than the other. It admitted of passive motion in all directions, but in abduction gave her consider- able pain. She had perfect command over all the muscles except the rotators inwards. No crepitus or displacement of bone could be detected. She died of fever a few days afterwards, and the ex- amination of the part showed a fracture which had detached the trochanter from the head and neck of the bone, but without tearing through the tendons attached to the outer side of the process. The ten- dons, those of the two smaller gliitaii, so effectiially prevented all motion of the fractured portion, that when dissected from the body not the least motion could be pnidiiced except in one direction—upwards and downwards. Another case in which this injury was presumed to have occurred, is related by Mr. Uransby Cooper. The patient was thrown out of his gig, and IVll upon the trochanter major. He was nnaljlc to walk, but could bear his own weight on the limb of the injured side. The trochanter major was not per- ceptible in its usual position, and pressure in this situation was extremely painful to the patient. By bending the pelvis towards the injured side, and at the same time abducting the limb to its fullest extent, and pressing down the gluttci muscles, the detached portion of bono could bo depressed, and crepitus was produced. Mr, Cooper endeavoured to keep the fractured portions of bone in apposition, by applying bandages and compresses upon the upper portion of the trochanter, so as to draw it downwards and fix it in its place, and he was kept in bed in this position for more than six weeks. Two years afterwards he was seen by Mr. Cooper, and there was then some degree of lameness remain- ing, but he was capable of performing most of the functions of the injured hip, even to slight feats of agility, though with a halt. {?>&e Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations, edited by B. Cooper, p. 185.) Another instance is mentioned by Mr. Stanlej', and two others by Dr. Hamilton, in which this fracture is supposed to have occurred, although he thinks it not improbable that they may have been examples of impacted fracture of the neck. (See his Treatise on Fractures and Dislocations, p. 390, Philadelphia, 1860.) In the treatment of such cases, says Sir A. Cooper, there must always be great difficulty in producing and maintaining coaptation of the parts; and the prognosis of perfect recovery must be unfa- vourable, for the fractured portion of the trochanter being covered by the tendons of the glutsei muscles, and by the synovial lining of a burs;r, and in- vested with tendons and not with periosteum, and being separated from its right position by the muscles, is placed under circumstances similar to the patella, olecranon, and os calcis, and, like these bones, when entirely severed by fracture, cannot be capable of reparation by oasific union.] For furttier information, the following autliorsmav be consulted. C. G. Ludwig, de Collo Femoris ejusque Fractura Programma. Lips. 1755. Belloc.q, '.!? '^'A'";.'''^ I'Acad. Ue Chir. t. iii. Aitkeit's and Gooc/i's Machnies are described iji B. BelVs Surgery vol. IV. Sabatier, in M^m. de I'Acail. de Chir. t. iv.' DMueniey Mai. des Os, t. i. Unger, in Richter's Bibl. b. VI. p. 520. Theden.Neae Bemerkungen, &c. th. 2. BriiHainghausen uber den Bruch des Schenkel- bemha ses &c. Wurzb. 1789. Van Gescher, uber die Lntstellungen des Ruckgrats, and uber der Ver- renkungen und Bruche des Schenkelbcins. aus d. Holland. Ilcdenus, m Bernstein's Darstellun^ des Clin-. Verbnndes, tab. xlii. fig-. 82 and 83. 31. Haqe- dorn, iiber der Bruch des Schenkelbeinhalses, &c Leipz. 1808. J. N. fiauter, Ainveisun^ die 13eiu- bruchederGliedmass(n,vorzii(;lich diecomplicierten und den Schenkelbeinhalsbruch nach einer neuen &c' Methode, sicber zu heilen, 8vo. Konstanz. 1812.' ./ Wilson, on the Structure and Pliysiology of the Skel'el ton, &c. p. 243, &c. Svo. Loud. 1820. Dr. Vul/.es in Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. ii. flir A. Conner Surgical Kssny.s, part ii ; and on Dislocations, &c' 4to. 1822, with Appendix, 1823. H. Earle, Fructicai Obs. on Surgery, 1823. Boi/cr, Mai. Cliir. t. ill. Jo/m Bell, rrinciplcs of Surgery, 4to. 1801. p. 549 Sic Sir C. Bell, on Injuries of tlie Spine and Tliigli-'bone' 4to. 1824. Baron Larreg, in Journ. Coinpldm. t viii' p. 116. C. Lniujstdff, Cnses of Fmctured Neck of the Thigli-Bone within the Cap.-ular Ligament, with the Dissections and Obs. in Med. Chir. Trans vol xiii 75. Stanley, Cases of Injuries of the Hip.Jo'int oii et vol. cit. G. ./. Oiil/irie, on the Diagnosis and'on the Inversion of tlie Foot in Fracture of Neck &c of the ThiKh-ltone, vol. cil. p. 103. Jo/m llowshi,,, m,. cit. vol. XIX. .Svm>, in Ldin Med..lourn. ApriM82(5. n. Bill, on Diseases o( the Bone, 182H. .1 Aincslmry Obs. on Fractures of the Upper Third of the Thiirfi Bone, &C.21UI eil. 1829. R. W. N,nith,oi, the Dia.'nosib o( Frnctui cs of the Neck of the Femur; Dubl. ,rourn of Med. Science, vol. vi. p. 205. iV. 11. Porter on' cit. vol. x p. 243. M. le Baron Dupug/rn,, Le?oii8 Ornles de (Jinique Cliir. t. 11. art. 2, 8vo. I'm is, 1832 IJerhert Mnyo, Outlines of lluiiian I'ntholoirv, chan" .. 8yo. l ond. 1835. [«. W. Smith, on Fnictuics mid Dislocations, Dubhii, 1847. Malgaiqni; Tniitc des Fractures, &c. t. i. I'aris, 1817. llnmilton, Prac- tical Treatise on Fractures and Dislocations, Philu- deliiliia, I8G0.]