o 0 2 tioned:—HumheH, Essai sur les Lux. Spontan. (Ill femur, 1835; Pramx, stir ks Line. Conghi. du femur; Bulletin de I'Acad., 1839, t. iii. and 1841, t. vii. Bouiier, Mem. stir la Reduction des Lux. Conght. du femur, 1838. Carnoclian, On Congen. Disloc. of the head of the femur. New York, 1850; ax\i Dublin Quart. Jow-n. of Med. Science, Feb. 1851. p. 173. Malgaigne, Traite des Fract. ij-e. t. ii. p. 887, 1855.] Dislocations of the Patella. [The patella may be dislocated outwards, in- wards, or vertically; in the latter ease, it is turned half round upon its axis, and is supported by its outer or its inner edge, on the anterior surface of the condyles of the femur. Instances are even re- corded in which the bone was turned round com- pletely on its axis, so that its articular surface Avas directed towards the skin, and its cutaneous surface towards the articulation. The dislocation outwards is the most common; the vertical dislo- cation is next in frequency; the dislocation in- wards is exceedingly rare. Dislocation upivards from rupture of the ligamentum patellte has been described, but as this case so much resembles fracture of the patella, both in its symptoms and in the treatment required, it will be treated of in connection with that injui-y. (See Fractures.)] Dislocation outivards. — The patella is thrown on the external condyle, where it produces a projec- tion ; and this circumstance, with an incapacity of bending the knee, is evidence of the nature of the injury. {Sir A. Cooper, Surgical Essays, part i. p. 66.) The accident is most common in persons ■whose knees incline inwards ; a condition that accounts for the tendency of the patella to be drawn outwards by the action of the extensor muscles. [The dislocation outwards may be complete or incomplete. It may be caused by direct violence, such as a fall on the knee, or a blow on its inner side ; or it may be the effect of the violent contrac- tion of the extensor muscles. Out of eleven cases of complete dislocation referred to by M. Malgaigne, seven were produced by direct violence, and four by muscular action ; and out of twelve cases of the incomplete kind, eight were due to the former, and four to the latter cause. A relaxed condition of the ligaments is a predisposing cause of dislocation of the patella, and when this condition exists, it may be drawn upon the external condyle of the 09 femoris by very slight accidents, or sudden action of the muscles. {Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations.) In the complete dislocation the patella is absent from the front of the knee, but may bo felt upon the outer side of the external condyle of the fenuir. with its inner edge directed forwards, and its arti- cular surface turned inwards. The tendon of the quadriceps extensor is directed obliquely outwards towards the displaced patella, and the ligamentum patella; is in like manner oblique, but in the oppo site direction. The axis of the patella is not parallel to the axis of the femur, but its point is usually directed slightly backwards, and its upper extremity forwards. The leg is sometimes extended, some- times slightly flexed, but all movement is extremely difficult and painful. In the incomplete dislocation, the inner portion of the patella is placed in front of the external condyle, and its outer edge is prominent under the skin; but in consequence of the sloping direction DISLOCATION. 563 of the surface of the condyle, its outer edge is turned a little forwards, and its inner edge back- wards. The position of the patella, therefore, is oblique, its anterior surface looking forwards and inwards. During extension of the knee, the patella is naturally placed somewhat higher than the arti- cular surface of the condyles, and M. Malgaigne has shown that in the incomplete dislocation the upper part of the inner margin of the patella is, to a certain extent, implanted in the supra-condyloid depression on the front of the femur, and this circumstance, he thinks, is the principal cause of difficulty m the reduction. In this dislocation the knee is usually extended, while in the complete kind it is more commonly slightly flexed. A very remarkable case of dislocation outwards has been recorded by Mr. Mayo: — " The patella rested with its inner edge upon the outer surface of the external condyle, the fore part of the patella facing obliquely forwards and inwards. The patella admitted of a slight degree of motion forward or backward, turning upon its inner edge, which seemed caught behind the prominent margin of the articular surface of the condyle." {Lond, Med. Gaz. 1828, vol. ii. p. 754.) Another case, in which the patella was found in precisely the same position, was seen by Mr. Hoskings. (See Lond. Med. Gaz. 1838, vol. iii. p. 125.)] Reduction,— In either the complete or incom- plete dislocation, when the extensors of the leg have been completely relaxed by position, the reduction is, for the most part, easily accomplished by pressing the patella towards its right place with one or both thumbs. It is not sufficient merety to straighten the knee-joint, but the thigh must also be flexed upon the pelvis, in order that the rectus, as well as the other portions of the quadriceps extensor may be fully relaxed. In a case under Mr. George Young, success could not be obtained, except by extending the leg, and placing the heel on the surgeon's shoulder, who, with the limb thus fixed, was enabled to make the requisite pressure on the patella advantageously with both his thumbs. Owing to a lax state of the ligaments of the patella, or other predisposing causes, it is sometimes diffi- cult to keep the bone in its proper situation, luiless a roller be applied. The inflammatory afi'ection of the joint is to be opposed by the use of evaporat- ing lotions, and the usual antiphlogistic treatment. The joint must be kept quiet a few days, and then gently moved, in order to prevent stiffness. When the relaxation of the ligaments is such that a re- lapse is likely to ensue from slight causes, a laced knee-cap, with a strap and buckle, above and be- low the patella, should be worn, as recommended by Sir Astley Cooper. {On Dislocations, p. 81.) [Should the reduction not be obtainable in the extended position of the limb, the eft'ect of forcible flexion of the knee may be tried. This position seems especially applicable to the incomplete dislo- cation in which sometimes great difficulty has been experienced, in consequence, as M. Malgaigne believes, of the bono becoming wedged in the supra-condyloid depression in tlio manner already alluded to. In such a case flexion of the knee will cause the patella to descend and to become placed in front of the smooth articular surface of the condyles, on gaining whicli position it will readily slip round into its place. In the case under Mr. Mayo, after various other methoda had been tried and failed, the knee was