550 DISLOi opinion, the chief impediment to reduction. Much force is not required, and should not be employed. Dr. Markoe of New York, wlio published an ac- count of eleven cases in the New York Hospital, eight of which were successfully treated by this method, remarks that nothing was accomplished by proceeding in a direction where great force was required to continue the movement, but he alwaj's succeeded hy finding a direction in which the mere continuance of the movement ivithout force brought the head into the proper position. The method followed in the New York Hospital, however, varied a little from that described by Dr. Reid, for Dr. Markoe states that the oscillating move- ment, while the thigh remained flexed over the abdomen, failed in the hands of himself and his colleagues, and that they were therefore "led to add the bringing down of the thigh to the straight posi- tion in a state of abduction, still keeping up the rock- ingmotion,andit was uniformlyintlieactof bringing down the limb that the reduction was accomplished. (See N. T. Joiirn. ofMe.d. Jan. 1855.) Dr. Reid, however, was not the first to suggest this method of reduction by manipulatory movements, for an account of a very similar proceeding was published in France by M. Desprez in 1835, who succeeded with it in a case in which the most powerful ex- tension applied "hj the ordinary method had failed. The patient being placed upon his back, M. Desprez flexed the leg on the thigh and the thigh on the pelvis, rotated the limb outwards so as to disengage the head of the femur, and then brought the thigh gently downwards and inwards. (See Bulletin de la Soa. Anat. April, 1835, p. 45.) This movement, says M. Ndlaton, is described by Pouteau in his Melanges de Chirurgie (1760), who attributes it to an army surgeon named Maison Neuve; but the latter only applied it to dislocations into the foramen ovale. (See Nelcdon, Elem. de Pathol. CIdr. t. ii. p. 451, 1847.) Dr. Fischer of Cologne published an account of a mode of reducing dislocations of the hip, by flex- ing the femur to an acute angle with the trunk, and impressing iipon it gentle rotatory movement while in a state of adduction, if dislocated on the pubes, and of abduction if dislocated on the ilium. {Casper^s Wocliensclirift, Nov, 1, 1849—gttoted in N. Y. Journ. o/yl/ed' 1852, p. 270.) Sir A. Cooper was of opinion that eight weeks was the period beyond which it would be impru- dent to attempt the reduction of dislocation of the hip-joint, except in persons of extremely relaxed fibre or of advanced age; and though aware that dislocations had been reduced at a more distant period than that mentioned, he believed that the reduction had often proved rather an evil than a benefit, from the violence of the extension. M. Malgaigne refers to cases of reduction at a much later period; one at the end of six months, others after the lapse of a year. One most remarkable case is recorded by Sir A. Cooper of accidental reduction. Jive years after the occurrence of the iiijuri/.] 2. Dislocation lachwards, on to the spine of the ischium—[Luxation ischiatique. NUidon, Malgaigne. —This form of injury to the hip is uncommon, and was unnoticed by Sir A. Cooper; nevertheless, several well-authenticated cases are on record, and M. Malgaigne refers to as many as twenty-eight observations. It appears to be produced in a very similar way to the dislocation backwards and upwards, but at the moment of its occurrence the thigh is probably more flexed towards the abdo- men, and consequently the head of the femur passes more directly backwards, and rests upon the base of the spine of the ischium, partly opposite the greater, and partly opposite the lesser sciatic notch. The symptoms are slight rotation inwards, with adduction and flexion of the limb; in some instances it has been found flexed to a right angle with the trunk of the body. The limb is most frequently stated to have been shortened, but the shortening has been variously estimated; by some it has been foimd apparently considerable, while others, on the contrary, have noticed an elongation. When shortening to any extent has been ob- served, it must necessarily liave been from some defect in the mode of measurement, or inatten- tion to the position of the pelvis. From the position of the head of the bone, which is pos- terior to, but on the same level with the acetabu- lum, if there is any real shortening it must neces- sarily be very slight, assuming that the limb is placed in a straight line with the trunk, though if it is raised to a right angle the shortening would of course become considerable. The head of the bone may be felt in its new situation, its lower part being situated but a slight distance above the ischial tuberosity.] Mr. B. Travers, jun., mentions two preparations in the Museum of St. Bartholomew'sHospital, ex- hibiting the head of the dislocated femur in this un- usual situation. " In the first, which was removed one week after the receipt of the injur}', the head of the bone is seen resting upon the sciatic spine, and lesser sciatic opening. The lower border of the cervix femoris being partially in contact with the upper and outer edge of the tuberosity, the small rotator muscles are lacerated. The lesser glutei and pyriform muscles are entire at their place of insertion." In this case, a fracture of the os inno- minatum traverses the bottom of the acetabulum. The trochanter lies considerably higher than the head of the bone. In the second specimen the bone had been reduced, but the rent is manifest at the back and outer part of the capsule, through which the head of the bone had passed to, and been found moveable upon, a spot corresponding to the root of the spine of the ischium. (See Med.- Chir. Trans, vol. xx. p. 115) [A carefiillj'-detailed account of the dissection of a case of this form of dislocation has been given by Mr. Quain.' (See Med.-Chir. Trans. vol. xxxi. 1848, p. 337.) His description is loo too long for quotation, but it is worthy of re- mark that the head of the femur had passed beneath the great sciatic nerve, which was stretched over the posterior surface of its neck, Mr. Quain assumes that this nerve was similarly situated in another case of this dislocation which came under his notice, and which was attended with pain of unusual severity, and with inability to void the urine until the dislocation was reduced. In a case recorded by Dr. Scott, the nerve is sup- posed to have been situated in front of the head of the femur, for before the bone was replaced every attempt at rotation outwardly caused extreme pain in the groin, at the hip, and in the course of the sciatic nerve. (See Dublin llospiial lieports, 1822, vol. iii.) These facts, the latter especially, Mr. Quain thinks would lead to the conclusion that in