EXOSTOSIS Periosteal exostoses are also either cartilagi- nous, or fungous, which latter are attended witli less general swelling of the limb, and are more prominent than fungous exostoses of the medullary membrane. Ulceration, bleeding, sloughing, and great discharge ensue, and, unless some operation be performed, the patient loses his life. {Sir A. Cooper, Surgical Essays, part i. p. 180). The cartilaginous exostosis, helivean the perios- teu7n and hone, arises from inflammation of the periosteum, and subjacent part of the bone ; and a deposition of firm cartilage, adherent to both these surfaces, takes place. In this substance bony matter is secreted, which is first thrown out from the original bone. As the cartilage increases m bulk, the quantity of phosphate of lime au<T- ments, and fresh cartilage is constantly deposited upon the outer surface of the tumor. On dis- section ;—1st, the periosteum is found thicker than natural ; 2ndly, immediately below the peri- osteum, cartilage ; and Srdly, ossific matter, de- posited within the latter from the shell of the bone, nearly to the inner surface of the periostum When the growth of such a swelling ceases, and the disease is of long standing, the exterior surface consists of a shell of osseous matter, similar to that of the original bone, and communicating with Its cancelli, in consequence of the primitive shell havmg been absorbed. {Sir A. Cooper, Surgical Essays, part i. p. 186.) The periosteal cartilagi- nous exostoses constitute the indolent, hard forms of the disease. In their early stage, especially when dependent on syphilis, they may be checked by small doses of mercury, the decoction of sarsa- parilla, and the emplastrum ammoniaci cum hy drargyro, (Vol. cit. p. 196.) When large, troublesome, they may be sawn away, as Sir A. Cooper states, without danger, if the disease be well discriminated from the fungous swelling. When non-maiignant exostoses are productive of much pain, and injure the health, and their situation admits of their being safely removed, with the aid of suitable saws, bone-nippers, or even of a gouge and mallet, the operation may be undertaken. Many tumors of this kind, how- ever, have bases so very extensive and deep, that, when situated on the limbs, amputation becomes preferable to any attempt made to saw or cut away the exostoses, and preserve the members on which they are situated. When the part by which they are connected to the bone is slender, their removal is generally a business of facility. I have heard of cases in which they were accidentally broken off, and lay loose, before the operation was begun. In removing an exostosis, its base must be as Ireely exposed by the knife as circumstances will allow, and to this part a small fine saw may be applied. In cutting away some exostoses, the flexible saw, described by Dr. Jeffray, of Glas- gow, has been occasionally employed. Mr. Key's saws, and the semicircular trephine, are now so well known to the profession, that I scarcely need rn.r™?.'^ "r'" remembered in the present vented f" ^'"'^f"' f ^"^S^"" London, in- vented a saw, well calculated for cutting a bone I is f«;! n T''' >m.scles. tirnP,^K ' ''""'Perpendicular wheel-like saw, f'nl ^' . '"S'^'y commended by Sir A C-ooper, who has given a drawing of^it in L Surgical Essays, part i. An orbicular saw, in- vented and used by Professor Graefe, of Berlin likewise merits particular notice on account cf its ingenuity. (See C. G. E. Schwalb, Be Scrra Orhculan 4to Berol. 1819). I would likewise recommend to the notice of surgeons the ingenious rotation saw, contrived by Professor Thai of Co- penhagen, and of which a description and en- graving may be found in the Edin. Med. and Surgical Journal, No, Ixxiv. A strong pair of bone-nippers and especially cutting forceps, the edges of which are in the line with the handles, will also be jiseful. [The reader will observe that, in this article, Mr. Cooper has included under the head of Ex- ostosis most of the tumors occurring in the bony tissue, whether of an innocent or of a mahgnant character ; whether composed entirely of bone, of cartilage, or of these materials com- bined with various morbid products. Further information on many of the diseased states touched upon m this article will therefore be found under the appropriate heads of Tumors?, Osteo- sarcoma, Cancer, Fundus H^ematodes, &c. Mr. Stanley, in his « Treatise on Diseases of the Bones,' published in 1849, enumerates the follow- ing products as occurring in the tumors of bone: —1. Cartilaginous substance. 2. Osseous substance, including the ivory and chalk-like deposits. 3. Encephaloid, or brain-like substance. 4. Fibrous substance. 5. Gelatinous substance. 6. Fatty substance. 7. Soft and very vascular substance, of the character of erectile tissue, 8. Fluids of various kinds, sanguineous, serous, or gelatinous, Mr. Cooper has treated sufficiently of the majo- rity of these morbid conditions, causing outgrowths or tumors of bono. The osteoid cancer of Miiller {Arcldv, 1843, p. 396), or, as Mr. Stanley calls It, "Malignant osseous tumor," has been made known to the profession since the last edi- tion of this Dictionary: the following brief outline of this affection is therefore here added. The osteoid or malignant osseous tumor usually selects for its site the lower extremity of the femur, just above the condyles, or the upper extremity of the tibia, immediately below the head of the bone. It occurs also, but less frequently, in the flat bones, such as the ilium, or bones of the skull. Accord- ing to Mr. Paget {Lectures on Surgical Pathology, p. 496), out of twenty-five cases, as many as thir- teen occurred in the lower part of the femur. The skull, tibia, humerus, ilium, and fibula were each affected in two cases, and the ulna and metacarpus each in one case. It may spring from the interior or exterior of the bone, and be composed of an osseous blended with a fibrous tissue. The former may be of an ivory hard- ness, or of a chalk-like consistence, and the latter, which is of a greyish-white colour, is found to pervade the osseous material, and to cover its surface. The tumor is generally of an oblong form, with smooth surface and outline, and when occurring in a cylindrical bone, usuall}' surrounds the whole cir- cumference of the bone. The malignancy of this affection is chiefl}' indicated by the osseous con- tamination of the absorbent glands in the neigh- bourhood of the disease, and by the co-existence of malignant growths, and occasionally of osseous deposits in some of the internal organs, as revealed by post-mortem examination. In one instance numerous osseous tubercles were found after death