HERNIA. 995 age, worn a proper time, generally proves a perfect cure. (Vol. ii.) Anxious that this work should be strictly im- partial, 1 next proceed to relate what has been more recently urged against the employment of the ligature for the cure of umbilical hernia in children. The incessant care that a bandage requires, either to keep it clean, or make it always keep up the proper degree of pressure, renders its employ- ment difficult in the children of the poorer classes. Scarpa expresses his opinion, that this was what induced Desault to revive the operation for um- bilical hernia by the ligature, nearly such as is described by Celsus; an operation (continues Scarpa), which a long while since, and for good reasons, was altogether abandoned. Desault him- self has put some restrictions to the employment of the ligature, since he observes, that this method does not radically cure the umbilical hernia of children arrived at the age of four years ; and, that, even in the youngest children, a radical cure cannot be effected by the ligature, unless a me- thodical compression of the navel, by means of a bandage, be kept up immediately after the ope- ration, and for two or three months. It is perhaps to the omission of this last means that a relapse is to be ascribed in several of the children operated upon by Desault. " Desault avoit remis en vigueur la ligaiure toniLee en desuetude, II s'abusoit sur sa ■valeur, et il n'est pas diffidle d'en connoitre la cause. Tons les enfans qxCil opcroil a I'Hotel-Dieu sortoient guiris, et n'y revenoient plus: on regardoit alors comme radicate une guerison momenianter (Jticlierand, Nosographie Chir. t. ii. p. 453.) " I have carefully watched (says Scarpa) the imme- diate effects, and the more or less remote conse- quences of tying the umbilical hernia, either simply, or by means of a needle and double liga- ture ; and, after a considerable number of such cases, I believe I can assert, that iMs operation, howsoever performed, is not ahvays exempt from grave and sometimes dangerous accidents. I can also add, thai it never procures a truly radical cure, unless the cicatrix, occasioned by it in the umbilical region, be submitted for some months to a methodical and uninterrupted compression. It is not so un- common, as some surgeons pretend, to see arise, after the application of the ligature, a fever attended ivith symptoms of most violent irritation, and acute suf- ferings, which cause incessant crying, and some- times convulsions. The ulcer, ivhich is produced hy the detachment of the swelling, is ahvays very large and difficull to heal. Every noiv and then it becomes painful, and emits fungous granulations, even though dressed ivith dry applications. " Latterly, it has been explained by a celebrated surgeon (Paletla M&nwr. de I'Instituto, torn. ii. part i.), that the umbilical vein and the suspen- sory ligament of the liver, being included in the ligature of the umbilical hernia, the inflammation, which originates in these parts, may perhaps, in certain cases, be communicated to the liver, so as to put the child's life in great danger. When, in consequence of the ligature, symptoms of violent irritation come on, they are ordinarily attributed to certain individual circumstances, such as ex- treme sensibility, or a particular disposition to spasm. Hence, it is believed, that they should be considered as exceptions, which do not exclude the general rule, and prove nothing against the utility of the operation. But how (says Scarpa) can the surgeon ascertain the existence or non-existence of these individual dispositions in the children upon which he is to operate ? Assuredl)', those subjects, in which I have had occasion to notice the above accidents, enjoyed, before the operation, perfect health in every respect. "AVhatever process be adopted for tj'ing the umbilical liernia, it is evident, that the tumor can only be constricted as far as a little way on this side of the aponeurotic ring of the umbilicus; whence it follows, that the integuments must al- ways remain prominent and relaxed, for a certain extent, at the front and circumference of this opening. Also, after the separation of the stran- gulated portion, there necessarily remains, under tke cicatrix, a portion of the hernial sac, and of the loose integuments which covered jt; and as the cicatrix itself never acquires sufficient firmness to resist the impulse of the viscera, which tend to insinuate themselves into the remains of the her- nial sac, the hernia, sooner or later, reappears, and, in a short time, becomes larger than it was before the operation. If the subject is a little girl, it may be apprehended that the first pregnancy will cause a recurrence of the hernia ; for, it is known, that during gestation the external cicatrix of the um- bilicus is considerably distended, and much, dis- posed to give way." Scarpa then notices, that "after the separation of the tumor, there always remains, between the aponeurotic ring of . the navel, and the integu- ments, a small cavity, formed by the neck of the hernial sac ; a cavity into which the viscera begin to insinuate themselves after the operation, so as to hinder the complete contraction of the umbilical ring. The demonstration of what I have ad\:anced is, in some measure, to be found in the old method of operating for inguinal hernia, not in a strangulated state by the ligature of the hernial sac and spermatic cord, Most of the hernise ope- rated upon by this barbarous process, were subject to relapses, because, in all probability, the cicatrix was not sufficiently firm to resist the impulse of the viscera, which entered the remains of the hernial sac. In the same manner, after the common ope- ration for strangulated inguinal hernia, although, the cicatrix is formed very near the ring, there is no prudent surgeon who does not advise the patient to wear a bandage the rest of his life; observation having proved that the hernia is still liable to recur. " The experience of several ages leaves no doubt, that compression alone is an extremel}' efficacious method of radically curing the umbilical hernia of young subjects. It is attended with no risk; and, provided it be executed with the requisite caution, it is hardly ever necessary to continue it longer than two or tliree months for the purpose of obtaining a complete cure. On the other side, if it be clearly proved, by all that I have been observing, that the ligature never accomplishes a perfect cure without compression, it is manifest that it cannot be at all advantngeous for the children of the poor, since a bandage cannot be dispensed with. It may bo said that in general it does not shorten tlie treatment; for, in the most successful cases, the ulcer caused by it is not healed in less than a month; and, in order to make the cure certain, an exact compression must be afterwards kept up, by means of a bandage, two months longer. It has already been stated that three months are ordinarily sufficient for obtaining 3 s 2