173 ANEURISM. ligatures having been also used, or the common tear in Italy of applying the ligatures tightly ; in which event one can readily suppose that the ligature might really slip, or, by remaining a long time on the vessel, give rise to dangerous ulceration. Thus, Morigi speaks of one case, in which the bleeding occurred on the nineteenth day. (Scarpa, On Aneurism, p. 14, ed. 2.) On the whole I am disposed to believe that when this method has been executed precisely according to Abernethy's directions, it has not often failed ; and I am acquainted with only one case in London, in which it was followed by secondary hemorrhage. However, in the year 1807, Mr. Norman, of Bath, tied the femoral ai-tery with two ligatures, and divided the vessel between them ; the upper liga- ture came away on the sixteenth day after the operation ; the lower one on the fifteenth ; and the following day a profuse hemorrhage came on, the patient losing a pound of blood. Pressure with a compress and wet bandage was continued for some time, and the wound healed. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. x. p. 123.) This is the only case of secondary hemorrhage, which Mr. Norman Las met with after operating for aneurisms. Scarpa very properly remarks, that the applica- tion of two ligatures, and dividing the artery in tlie interspace, can never be an eligible mode, where the smallness of the space, the depth of the artery, and the importance of the surrounding parts do not permit the vessel to be separated and insulated to such an e.xtent as is required for dividing it, with a probability of the division of it being sufficiently distant from the two ligatures. Such, for e.Yaniple, are the cases of ligature of the carotid in the vicinity of the sternum ; of the iliac above Ponpart's ligament ; of the internal iliac, a little below its origin from the common iliac ; of the axillai-y artery between the point of the coracoid process and the acromial portion of the clavicle; or of the subclavian in its passage between the scaleni muscles. Scarpa then comments on tlie difficulty, and even inipossibilitj-, of taking up the end of the truncated artery again in many situ- ations, were hemorrhage to ensue ; and he joins Mr. Hodgson in thinking the advantages of the method, even where it is practicable, by no means demon- strated. Nay, he goes further ; for he agrees with Heister, Callisen, and Richter in setting it down as worse than useless, on account of the portion of the artery between the ligatures being converted into a dead and putrid substance, which rests upon the bottom of the wound, from which it cannot be removed until the two ligatures are separated. Here, deeply impressed with the truth of principles, which, perhaps he has rather lost sight of in speak- ing of his own particular method, he comments on the little probability of the wound uniting, under the disadvantage of two ligatures hanging out of it, and of sloiighs at its bottom. He argues correctly, that the laying hare, and insulating a large portion of artery, would often be objectionable on the ground that it could not be done without the sur- geon being obliged to apply the principal ligature too near the origin of a large lateral brancli ; as would happen in a case of femoral nncnrisni, situated an inch and a quarter below the origin of the profunda. Tlius, a coagulum could not be formed, and the artery would be in danger of not being closed. On the contrary, by employing only a single ligature, at an inch ai:d a ijuarlcr below the origin of the profunda, the operation would be simple and successful. (Scarpa, On Aneu- rism, p. 19—21, ed. 2.) The above considerations would certainly lead me to avoid the practice of detaching an "artery from its surrounding connections any more than is absolutely necessary for the conveyance of a single ligature under it; but I fully concur with Sir Astley Cooper in the prudence of using two ligatures, and applying them in the way recom- mended by Mr. Abernethy, whenever the artery has been extensively separated from its sheath in the operation. The frequent occurrence of accidents after the introduction of Mr. Hunter's operation miidit have been ascribed to more probable causes than the condition of an undivided artery, upon which the ligature was applied. The employment of numerous ligatures gradually tightened, or the introduction of extraneous bodies into the wound, were alone sufficient to produce ulceration of the artery: and such practices were adopted in most of the cases in which secondary hemorrhage took place. After the reasons which have been "specified ag,ainst the plan of tying the artery with two liga- tures, and dividing it in the interspace, it may ap- pear superfluous to notice a modification of this practice, intended as a security against the slippint^ of the ligature. But, as the proposal has had the approbation of some men of eminence, the subject may still be worthy of notice. Sir Astley Cooper published a case of popliteal aneurism, in which the femoral artery had been tied with two ligatures, as firmly as could be done without risk of cutting it through. "But (says he) as I was proceeding to dress the wound, I saw a stream of blood issuing from the artery, and when the blood was sponged away, one of the ligatures was found detached from the vessel Soon after, the other was also forced off- and thus the divided femoral artery was left without a ligature, and unless immediate assistance had been offered him, the patient must have perished from hemorrhage." The same kind of accident occurred in Mr. Cline's practice. For the prevention of it Sir Astley at first tried the method of conveying the ligatures, by means of two blunt needles under the artery, an inch asunder, and close to the coats of the vessel, excluding the vein and nerve but passing the threads through the cellular mem- brane surrounding the artery. When these were tied, and the artery had been divided between them, the bgatures were prevented from slipping passed. Afterwards, however, berried a*dilfeitn"t by the cellular membrane through which thev passed. Afterwards, however, he tried a dilferent mode of securing the ligature, suggested to him bv middle of the inner part of the thigh, and the femoral artery exposed, the artery was 'sepamt^d the veni and ne-- - ' " ■ ^ from iiie yeni and nerve, and all'the surrounding parts to the extent of an inch; an eye-probe armed with a double ligature, having u curved end, was conveyed under the prone cut away. The ligature the groin was first tied ; tlic other was separated an inch from the first, and also tied 1 hen the needles were passed through the coats of the artery, close to tiio ligatures between them and the ends of each thread were again tied over knot^ made in fastening the first circular ap. needle at each artery, and th nearest Ih