N N 4 not an accidental luxation; but arose from the de- struction of the lignments by disease. Authors mention two kinds of dislocation, to which the os coccygis is liable; one, forwards; the other, bacltwards. The lirst, which ia tlie most frequent, is always occasioned by fcxternal violence; tlie second, by tiie pressure of the child's head in difficult labours. Pain, difficulty of voiding the faces and urine, tenesmus and inflammation, some- times ending in abscesses, which implicate the rec- tum, are symptoms said to follow such dislocations. [The nature and extent of the displacement may be ascertained by the introduction of the finger into tlie rectum; but it will be difficult, and, no doubt, often impossible to distinguish a dislocation from a fracture. The latter is by far the more frequent injury of the two. For the reduction, the finger may be introduced into the rectum, and then the thumb being applied externally, the dislocated bone may be held between the tvvo, and pressed back into its place.] Much handling, however, of the painful and injured pai'ts should be avoided, as likely to increase the subsequent inflammation and produce abscesses. Strict quietude should be en- joined, and antiphlogistic measures adopted. Dislocations of the Hip-joint. According to Sir A. Cooper, the head of the thigh-bone may be dislocated upwards on the dor- sum of the ilium ; backwards, into the ischiatic notch; downwards and forwards, on the foramen ovale; upwards and forwards on the body of the os pubis. Sir A. Cooper's observations led him to believe that the relative proportion of cases would be in twenty as follows:—twelve on the dorsum ilium; five in the ischiatic notch; two on the foramen- ovale ; and one on the pubes. [But besides these four varieties described by Sir A. Cooper, several other, though much rarer, forms have since been observed; in fact, the head of the thigh-bone has been found displaced from its socket in almost every conceivable direction. The classification of these injuries therefore re- quires several additions and modifications. In the first place, it seems advisable, in accord- ance with several eminent modern authorities, to combine the ttfo first dislocntions of Sir A. Cooper, above mentioned, into one form, which may be called the dislocation backwards and upiuards. This is by far the most frequent injury to which, the hip-joint is liable. Secondly, the head of the femur may be displaced directly backwards, in the direction of, or resting upon, the spinous process of tlie ischium. Thirdly, it may pass directly doivnwards, or doivnwards and sliyhlly backwards, resting upon or behind the tuberosity of the ischium. Fourthly, it may pass doivnwards and sliglitly forivards, towards the perineum, or on" to the ascending ramus of the ischium. Fifthly, it may ■p^ea/oituards and doivnwards into the foramen ovule. Sixthly, it may pass forwards and upwards on to the pubes, and rest upon that bone between the anterior inferior spinous process and the pectineal eminence. Seventhly, it may pass directly upwards, and become placed beneath the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. NATION. The order of frequency of these dislocations is as follows: — 1. Tlie dislocation backwards and- upwards, which includes more than .three-fourths of all the dislocations of the hip. 2. The dislo^ cation forwards and downwards, in to the foramen ovale. 3. The dislocation forwards and upwards on the pubes. These are the ordinary varieties, and answer to the four dislocations of Sir A. Cooper. The remainder may be considered as more or less exceptional, but they may probably be arranged thus as to comparative frequency:— 4. The direction backwards on to the spine of the ischium. S. The dislocation directly upwards, beneath the anterior superior spinous process. 6. The dislocation directly downwards, on the tube- rosity of the ischium. 7. The dislocation towards the perineum.] 1. Dislocationlaikwardsandupwards.—[This will be understood to include the two first-mentioned dislocations of Sir A. Cooper, viz. that on the dor- sum, and that into the ischiatic notch, which have many points of resemblance; in fact, their only dif- ference consists in a slight alteration of the position of the head of the bone in the upward or backward direction. Several modern writers have therefore thought it more convenient to classify them to- gether. M. N^Iaton has described this variety under the name of ilio-isckiaiic." Mr. .Erichsen calls it the ilio-scialic, and M. Malgaigne the iliac dislocation. Such an arrangement has the advantage of simplifying the subject, and another reason for adopting it is found in the circumstance that be- tween the point assigned by Sir A. Cooper to the dislocation of the dorsum of the ilium, and that assigned'to the dislocation in the ischiatic notch, the head of the bone may occupy any intermediate position without material or essential modification of the symptoms. The position of the bone, too, is not unfre- quently altered within the above limits subse- quently to the occurrence of the accident. Thus, the head of the bonOj originally on the dorsum ilii, may, during the attempts at. reduction, be drawn downwards opposite to the ischiatic notch ; or, on the other hand, when it has been originally displaced backwards, it maybe pushed upwards in consequence of the patient attempting to bear the weight of the body upon the limb, and possibly also it may l^e'drawn upwards by muscular con- traction. It is still desirable, however, to call attention to the distinguishing featiires of these injuries as described by Sir A.Cooper. According to this authority—] The dislocation upwards on the dorsum of the ilium is attended with the following symptoms:— The limb is from one inch and a half to two inches and a half shorter than its fellow, the thifjh a little bent, and carried inwards. The knee inclines more forwards and inwards than the opposite one; the leg and thigh are turned inwards, and the foot points in this direction; the too resting against the tarsus of the other foot. {Surgical Essays, part iv. p. 27.) If the bone bo not concealed by extravasation of blood, the head of it can be per- ceived moving upon the dorsum ilii during rotation of the knee inwards, and the trochanter major may be felt much nearer than natural to the anterior and superior spinous process of the ilium. It is also less prominent than that on the opposite side, and