to lay an enlarged bursa extensively open, or to pass a seton through it, or to apply caustic. " If the fluid will not disperse by common means, it is only necessary to puncture the sac several times, when it will either cease to secrete an undue quantity of fluid, or suppurate, and thus get well." (See Mayo's Outlines of Human Pathology, p 111.) In University College Hospital, I have had under my care numerous cases of diseased bursse. If inflamed, I find cold applications, leeches, and quietude the best means of relief. Afterwards a blister, or friction with ointment of hydriodate of potash, or camphorated mercurial ointment. When the swelling suppurates, or resists these plans, I usually make an opening. A large bursa, which was under the care of Mr. Liston, and the sides of which were nearly three quarters of an inch thick, was successfully removed by means of the knife. It lay between the patella and the skin, and was easily taken out, after a crucial division of the integuments. When the coats of a bursa are much thickened, and cannot be restored to their natural condition, if superficially situated, it may be removed with as much facility as an encysted tumor. This prac- tice Sir Benjamin Brodie has only as yet applied to the bursa between the patella and the skin, though he entertains no doubt of there being other superficial bursas which would also safely admit of removal. [I have frequently succeeded in curing small bursal swellings with thin walls, especially those situated about the v/rist, by subcutaneous incision — a method of treatment not mentioned by Mr. Cooper, but adopted with advantage by many sur- geons. A tenotomy knife should be introduced under the skin, half an inch from the position of the bursa; it should then be carried on by the side of, and even beyond, the swelling, and plunged into it, so as to incise its walls freely; the object should be to convert it into an open sac. The glairy fluid it contains should now be made to pass by pressure into the surrounding cellular tissue, or out at the external wound. A compress of lint fixed on the site of the former swelling will gene- rally complete the cure. The advantage of the subcutaneous incision is that it is rarely followed by inflammation. The surgeon should be aware that a bursal swelling situated over the carpal bones may communicate with the intercarpal synovial mem- branes. This affection is probably caused by a sort of hernial protnision of the synovial sac between the fibres of the intercarpal ligaments. The puncture of such swellings should bo care- fully avoided, as they might be fallowed by destructive inflammation of the carpal joints. They may be distinguished by the circumstance that they may bo nuide to disappear, to some extent, by pressure, although they will reappear on its re- moval ; whereas the ordinary closed bursal en- largement will simply be displaced by pressure, but never partially emptied. It should be borne in mind that in other situations also a bursa may communicate with a neighbouring joint, as the subdeltoid bursa with the shoulder, and the sub- psoal with the hip-joints. In these latter instances the bursa; are placed between the capsule of the joint and the adjacent tissues; and the communica- tion with the joint, which is not congenital, appears BURSiE MUCOSA. " 353 to be eflFected by the gradual thinning and ultimate destruction of the capsule and bursal wall by friction or nsure. Puncture or incision here would also com- promise the neighbouring joint, and should be care- fully avoided. I have seen a fatal result follow the puncture of an enlarged bursa in each of the above named situations. The morbid specimen of a shoulder-joint thus destroyed is preserved in the museum of St. Mary's Hospital. The bursa of the crureus muscle may also be mentioned as occasionally communicating with the knee, and that of the sub- scapular muscle with the shoulder-joint. I have met with cases not alluded to by Mr. Cooper, where thickened bursas of the patella have either suppurated, or have been incised, and where the openings into the diseased bursa; have remained fistulous. In these cases, the skin adhered to the thickened and collapsed bursa;, and presented ill- conditioned ulcers which no remedies, general or local, have disposed to heal. The proper treat- ment, in these cases, is to make a crucial incision through the diseased and adherent integument, to dissect back the flaps, and expose the thickened and diseased bursa, and to completely remove it. The bursal sheaths of the flexor tendons of the fingers, where they pass under the annular liga- ment of the wrist joint, are occasionally exten- sively distended with synovia, giving rise to a double swelling, one in the palm of the hand, and one m front of the wrist, which, on manipdation, are found to communicate with each other. It is in fact but one swelling constricted by the annular ligament, which, by pressiu-e, can be made to pro- ject entirely in the palm, or entirely above the wrist. Sometimes they contain the so-called melon seed bodies. These swellings produce great de- formity, but are not generally attended with pain- and when they do not seriously impede the move- ments of the hand and fingers, should not be inter- fered vvith by operative procedure. In extreme cases however, where the hand becomes com- pletely crippled by the disease, it has been recom- njended that they should be opened freely above and below the constriction formed by the annular ligament. A seton also has been passed length- waya through the swelling under the ligament and- this latter has even been divided, by Dupuytren Velpeau, and others, for the cure of this aftection' Mr. Syme has published a successful case treated by the division of the annular ligament. (See Edinburgh Monihli) Journal for October ', 1844 ) The intention of these operations is to produce suppuration of the enlarged bursal sheatlis and their subsequent obliteration. This cannot how ever, be done without causing considerable consti tutional disturbance, and risking the limb, or even ife, of the patient. The surgeon should not, therefore lightly undertake to operate in sue cases and without fully explaining to his patien the danger and risk attending the <fperation. For a more detailed account of this affection, the reader IS referred to a paper published by Mr. Conlson in the i /o.Mty./o«n,„/ of Medicine for October, 1851 p. oul.j (beo Ganglion.) ' Consult Monro's Description of all the Bursa- I\r„ cosffi, &c., with remarks on their iiccident^nml i^" eases, &c. fol. l.;,lii,. 1788. C. M. Do m' ' Bnrsnruin, tendinuni mucosarum. Sir/J C' o3.' Pathological nn.l SurKical Ol.s. on the Jo ntf dm„ X ed 3. 8V0. Loud. 1831. N.H„ton, KlOm. Ue i'at u " Cli.r t... 1844 Herbert M<,,,o', Outlines of Hu an Pathology, p. no. 8vo. tond. 1835. ^lU'uan