AMPUTATION, F 2 ciJar cufF of skin, a matter of some importance if the integument is infiltrated and rigid from disease; and, also, that after the wound is closed, the pro- jectmg corners of skin which result from a circular incision are avoided, and the stump has conse quently a more rounded and neater appearance.] All the muscular fibres, on every side, having been cut down to the bone, a piece of linen, some- what broader than the diameter of the wound, should be torn at one end, along its middle part, to the extent of about eight or ten inches. This is called a retractor. It is applied by placing the ex- posed part of the bone in the slit, and drawing the ends ot the Imen upward on each side of the stump In this manner the retractor will obviously keep every part of the surface of the wound out of the way of the saw. Where there are two bones the retractor must have two slits, an inch or an inch and a half apart. The two slits receive the two bones, and the mtermediate strip of linen is passed through the interosseous space. Graefe thinks that m amputations of parts where there is only one Jw-A' portion of the linen should , x. eievate tne lower portion of the bone too alwajs be applied over the anterior muscles, as much, the saw becomes so pinched that it cinnot iack . '^'''^y 1«P* 0" *he other hand, i he allow the weS ba k, so that no projection of them may interfere of the limb to operate too much, tr bonrSs with the action of the saw. (Nonnen fur die Ablo-\ hehre it is nearly sawn through and its ex uXrjT p2"wL!''-^ That meritorious tremity is splintered It is onet't^TLlf cZ t,"on wh'j, ^^''"fe name I always men- mon remarks of Buch persons as are in the habit rrrt actor trendroT\"^'T"^' ''''A i ^'"^^"^""^ amputations, tha the part f tne retractor, the ends of which he drew over the these operations, which a plain carnenter would dn anterior muscles ; he says that he has employed well, foils the skill of a conslmar ur^^^ this simple and natural means, but that it did not few operators acquit themseirs well^n^X' Z C7 necessary in support of the practice of employing the retractor, I might refer to that of Dupuytren (see Lerons Orales de Clinique Chir. t. iv. p. 298), whose directions for its application are the follow- ing • — If there is only one bone, it is to be placed in the angle of imion of the two tails of the re- tractor, which are to be brought over the anterior surface of the limb, and made rather to cross one another. Thus, the retractor forms a sort of bag covering the wound, and out of the centre of which the bone passes, and becomes the more denuded in proportion as the assistant draws the retractor towards the trunk. Division op the Bones, In no part of amputation, do operators in general display more awkwardness than in sawing the_ bone, though, if we except directing the saw against the flesh, the faults are here less pernicious m their consequences than the errors already noticed. At the time of sawing the bone, much depends upon the assistant who holds the limb. If he elevate the lower portion of the bone too TV»ii«l-> 4-1.^ • 1 U satisfactory reasoning to say this is not their method. (7-naVe. des Mai. Chir. t. iii. p. 152.) I have seen the saw do so much mischief, in con- sequence of the operator neglecting to use the re- tractor, that my conscience obliges me to censure such surgeons as neglect to defend the soft parts by this simple contrivance. There are some who have rejected the use of the retractor, because they have seen it get under the teeth of the saw and obstruct the action of the instrument • but endeavour to shorten this part of the operation, by making short, very rapid, and almost convulsive strokes, with the saw. Almost all operators fall mto the error of bearing too heavily on the instru- ment. That operator will saw best, who makes the first stroke of the saw by applying its heel to the bone, and drawing the instrument across the part, towards himself, so as to make a slight groove in the bone, which serves very materially to steady the future movements of the instrument • this very circmstance adduced ^ m^:i,:^^^:;LS;itSr'' tractor is, when considered, the strongest one that at first rather slowl^tuilkly rSr th ard in Its favour, as than bpavilv Tt,o .j;„„...j -.^ ^ ■' , , ...V, u„i„ijgcai uuc llJill, could possibly be brought forward in its favour, as the surface of the wound itself, and particularly the edges of the skin, would, in all probability, suiter the same fate as the linen, by getting under the teeth of the saw, if no retractor wore employed, in attempting to saw the bone high up, as closely as possible to the soft parts. But, besides defend- ing the surface of the stump from the teeth of the saw, the retractor will undoubtedly enable the operator to saw the bone higher up than he could otherwise do. Mr Listen pronounced all kinds of retractors superfluous. Here it should be remembered, that this gentleman's practice was that of flap-ampu- tation, to which ho gave the universal preference • a method in which, unquestionably, the retractor may be dispensed with, as, while the saw is actin-r one, or both of the flaps can be eflfectunlly held out of the way by an assistant. (See Edinb. Med. ind ismrj. ./own. vol. xx. pp. 43—45.) Here lowever, I am treating of amputation by the cir- :ular incision, in which the retractor is too useful 0 be reliiKiuished. Were any furtlier authority than heavily The saw is directed by Dupuytren to be applied perpendicularly, and worked in the begmnnig slowly, but afterwards more quickly in proportion-^as the groove becomes deeper, and the wi l'!.' g«"i"8: out of it is lessened. When the bone is nearly divided, the sawinff should proceed with the greatest gentleness. Then ,th'T*"n' ^3,1^° ';°1^> opposite parts of the imb should redouble their care to maintain them in their natural directions. (See Legons Ora es tir^TTo P- '''-^ P''-3 moved d n.i!. *l, "'^ ^'"'P P'l" '° re- moved dining the sawing of the bone, without ^TlTfttSt'- , ^■'^'^'^^ inciJio'stilh t ie vvound. Ho disapproves of entrusting the n.b to an assistant during the sawing, and lays t down as a rule, that the management of the lower part of the limb should always be left to the person using the saw. The saw, he says, may be worked either horizontally or vertically, but the latter direction seems to him best, because, when