AMAUROSIS. 44 irritation in the gastric system, complicated with general nervous debility, in which the eyes partici- pate. Hence it appears to them that the chief indications are, to free the alimentary canal from all irritating matter, improve the state of the chy- lopoietic viscera, and invigorate the nervous system in general, and the nerves of the eye in particular. For an adult, Scarpa directs three grains of anti- moniura tartarizatum to be dissolved in four oimces of water, and a spoonful of this solution to be given every half hour, until nausea and copious vomiting ai'c produced. The next day some opening powders are exhibited, consisting of an ounce of the super- tartate of potash, and one grain of antimonium tar- tarizatum, divided into six equal parts. The pal lent takes one of these three times a day, for eight or ten days in succession. If the patient, during their use, should make vain efforts to vomit, the emetic, as at first directed, is to be prescribed again, and repeated a third and fourth time, should it be deemed necessary. The stomach having been thus emptied, he orders an aperient pill, composed of rhubarb and tartarised antimony to be taken night and morning, for a month or six weeks. When the state of the stomach has been im- proved, and the restoration of sight partly effected, such remedies must be employed as strengthen the digestive organs, and excite the vigour of the ner- vous system in general, and of the nerves of the eye in particular. With this intention, Scarpa prescribes bark and valerian in powder, with nour- ishing diet, with a moderate quantity of wine,_and proper exercise in a salubrious air. For exciting the action of the nerves of the eye, the vapour of liquor ammonise, properly directed against the eye, he says, is of the greatest service. This remedy is applied by holding a small vessel, contaunng it, sufficiently near the eye to make this organ feel a smarting, and to cause a copious secretion of tears, and a redness, when it is proper to stop, and re- peat the application three or four hours afterwards. The operation of these vapours maybe promoted by other external stimulants, such as blisters to the nape of the neck ; friction on the eyebrow with the anodvne liquor ; the irritation of the nerves of the nostrils by sternutative powders, like that composed of two grains of tiirbeth mmera , and a scruple of powdered betony leaves ; and, lastly, electricity. The external use of strychnia would here deserve trial in the manner presently specihed. The imperfect amaurosis, suddenly brought on in consequence of the body being excessively heated, or of exposure to the sun, or by violent anger, m plethoric subjects, requires general and topical evacuations of blood, and the application of cold washes to the eyes and whole head. Scarpa then prescribes an emetic, and afterwards antimonial purgatives. By means of bleeding and an emetic, Schmncker often restored the eyesight of soldiers, who had lost it in making forced marches. In amaurosis suddenly occasioned by violent anger, an emetic is the more strongly insisted upon after bleeding, as the blindness thus arising is always attended with a bitter taste in the mouth, tension of the hypochondria, and continual nausea, llichter mentions a clergyman, who became completely blind after being in a violent passion, and whose evesicht was restored the very next aay, by means of an emetic, given with the view of relieving some obvious marks of bilious disorder. In this country, this free use of tartarized anti- mony, which has proved so efficacious on the Con- tinent, has not been found to answer. Mr. Travcrs states, that he does not recollect an instance of de- cided benefit from it, though he has often tried it fairly. He agrees, however, in the indication, as he remarks, that the removal of an irritating, or oppressing cause, will often effect a sudden and marked relief, as by clearing the intestinal canal of vitiated secretions, restoring the digestive functions, or taking away blood where the necessity is indi- cated. In gastric cases, for which emetics have been particularly recommended, he prefers a long- continued course of the blue pill, with gentle saline purgatives, and tonic bitters. (^Si/nojJsis, p. 299 —304.) Beer is another high authority against the use of emetics, even in the amaurosis from disorder of the gastric organs. Emetics, which never operate Avith- out some violence, he says, are to be most carefully avoided in plethoric individuals, or those who have a manifest determination of blood to their heads and eyes, or any acceleration of the circulation. The caution here given must be observed, even though emetics may on other accounts seem advisable ; and, according to Beer, the determination of blood and the state of the system here mentioned are com- monly attendant upon this species of amaurosis. In- deed (notwithstanding the testimony of Schmucker, Richter, and Scarpa, in favour of emetics). Beer positively affirms that the violent operation of an emetic frequently converts this sympathetic amaurotic weakness of sight into complete blind- ness. Although I apprehend that Beer may here be somewhat prejudice,d against emetics, candour obliges me to add, that, in this country, their effi- cacy in the present disease is by no means equal to the representations of Richter and Scarpa. When there is less tendency to vomiting, but the case is attended with an oppressive sense of weight about the stomach, frequent eructations, an inflated belly, tense hypochondria, and confined bowels. Beer found that clysters and tolerably brisk purgatives were always of the greatest service, both m regard to the general complaints, and the amaurotic weak- ness of sight; the removal of the offensive matter from the alimentary canal being immediately fol- lowed by a cessation of the determination of blood already mentioned. Lastly, when this amaurosis originates altogether from the presence of worms m the bowels, common anthelmintics are to be pre- scribed. In all these cases, says Beer, mere local treatment is quite inapplicable, and may do inis- chief. (licer, Lehro von dcu Augmkr. b. ii. p. .517—521.) , ., In periodical amaurosis., attended with serious impairment or loss of vision, returnmg daily, weekly, or monthly, or at irregular intervals, the eye being little or "not at all affected in the intei- mediate periods, the best means of cure are bieed- inn-, purgatives, and counter irritation. This treat- ment is especially applicable to hemeralopia. In amaurosis ircited hrj denlilion the gums may be divided, mild laxatives and small doses of syrup of poppies given, and the child put into a warm bath If amaurosis depend upon the irritation ot a eai-ious tooth, this should be extracted For amaurosis from a parl,al wound, or lace- ation of the supra-orbital nerve, the best plan is to make a free division of , , , Of late, strychnia has been employed as a remedy