208 the handle of the scalpel, and drawing aside the recurrent and phrenic nerves, he tied it with a round silk ligature, ahout half an inch from its bifurcation. On account of the difficulty of tying large arteries in a deep small wound, Dr. Mott recom- inendis a set of instruments, invented for the pur- pose, in Philadelphia, by Drs. Parish, Hartshorn, and Hewson ; consisting, 1st. Of several blunt- pointed needles, of various sizes and curvatures, furnished with an eye at each end, and calculated at one end to screw into a strong handle. 2ndly. Two strong instruments, with handles, having at one end an eye, or hole ; they resemble those sometimes used for applying a ligature to tlie tonsils. brdly. A small round-pointed scalpel. 4thlv. A small hook fixed in a strong handle (Parish, 171 Ecleclic Rep. yol in. p. 229.) Atter Dr Mott had introduced the ligature into the eye of one of the above-described needles, and screwed the needle into a handle, he pressed with its con- vexity the cellular membrane and pleura carefully downwards, while he carried it from below up- wards round the arteiy. As the point now appeared on the other side of the vessel, the above-mentioned hook was passed into its eye, and the handle unscrewed from the other end ot it when it was easily drawn out from under the artery, and the ligature left under the vessel. In this part of the operation. Dr. Mott urges the necessity of being particularly attentive to two im- portant circumstances ; one, is, to convey the liga- ture round the artery from below upwards, as the only way to prevent injury of the pleura ; and the other is, to fix the hook in the eye of the needle before the handle is unscrewed from its other end, because, after this has been done, the needle loses all steadiness, and it is then difficult to get the hook into the eye. -^i, „ Dr Mott now made a noose, pressed it with the forefinger down to the artery, and tightened it very gradually, in order not to stop the flow of blood through the vessel, all at once. A moderate con- striction was kept up some seconds, so that the eifect of the ligature upon the heart and lungs might be observed ; and as no disturbance was produced in the functions of these organs, Dr. Mott tightened the ligature, and stopped the cur- rent of blood through the vessel. At this instant the pulsation of the right temporal and radia arteries ceased. The noose was tightened still more with the above-mentioned l'g=^A"f«^°° ' ^^^^ then a second knot was made. Dr. Mott was greatly pleased at finding his patient s countenance remain perfectly unchanged, and no complaint made of pain in any other part. Immediately after the ligature had been applied, the aneurismal swelling lost one-third of its size, and the clavicle could be felt through its whole extent. The divided muscles and detached skin were now brought into their natural situation ; the wound closed with three sutures and adhesive plaster, and a compress ap- plied. In the operation, throe small arteries were tied: the first lay under the sternum, and seemed to be a branch of the internal mammary ; the second was a descending branch of the superior thvroideal ; and the third a branch of the inferior thvroideal.' From two to four ounces of blood were lost, most of which came from an injured small branch of the subclavian, llie operation took up about an hour. The curved spatuhc. Ai^EURISM. recommended by Dr. Colles, "were found Very useful for holding the carotid and par vagum aside, while, by their uniform pressure, they materially assisted in restraining the effusion of blood from small vessels, and, as taking up little room, were infinitely more convenient in a deep narrow wound than the fingers of an assistant. The day after the operation, the veins of the right forearm and hand had a turgid appearance. When the circulation in them was promoted by pressure, they became empty for some distance above the pressed part, but filled again immedi- ately the pressure was removed ; a circumstance that seemed to show that the circulation in this arm, notwithstanding the ligature of the arteria in- nominata, still went on with great celerity, though no pulse could be felt in the brachial and radial arteries. On the contrary, the pulse was very plain in the front branch of the temporal artery, just above the outer angle of the orbit The left external carotid beat with unusual force. In a few days, however, the pulse became perceptible again at the right wrist. My limits will not allow me to enter into all the details of this interesting case: suffice it to mention that the patient suffered considerable febrile dis- turbance at some periods after the operation, and it was necessary twice to have recourse to venesec- tion. He was also afflicted with a severe cough. The discharge from the wound was copious and fetid. The main ligature separated on the four- teenth day. On the twentieth day, the patient was sufficiently recovered to walk in the garden. On the twenty-first day, the wound was almost closed ; the patient could move his right arm with the same facility as his left, and he was gaining such strength, that no doubts were entertained about the success- ful result of the operation. On the twenty-third day, hemorrhage came on from the wound ; U was stopped by the introduction of lint, and the em- ployment of pressure. About twenty-four ounces of blood were lost, whereby the patient was so de- pressed, that the pulse was no longer distinguish- able. On the twenty-fourth day, in the evening, he lost four ounces more blood; on account ot his restlessness and the painful state of his arm, two grains of opium were administered to him. After one or more returns of bleeding, he died on the twenty-sixth day. . When the body was opened, no traces ot intiam- mation or its consequences were found either in the arch of the aorta, the origin of the innomiiiata, or the lungs. The aorta was now slit open longi- tudinally, and a probe then cautiously passed throueh it into the innominata, when the instru- ment went through the latter vessel into the cavity of the wound. The inner coat of the mnonimata was smooth and soft; but, about half an inch from the place where the ligature had cut through the vessel marks of inflammation were noticed, ana a I guium adiiered to the sides of tbe -tery wr h considerable firmness; so that nature h.-id probabl> endeavoured, by means of adhesive 'nA^^^'""' to close the vessel, but had been prevented f om on pleting the salutary process by the destructive ulceration One portion of the parietes ot the in nSnata was thickened by anomalous branch, as large as a crow s qu.Il, arose "r^vi;; twice as extensive inwardly^ was superficially, reaching laterally to the trachea