AMPUTATION. 72 familiar acquaintance with the direction and form of the articular surfaces is also important, or the knife will Ijc liable to become entangled between the bones, and its point and edges will be injured in fruitless endeavours to separate the parts. Special instructions will be given on these points, in speaking of particular amputations. In other amputations it is a matter of no great importance on which side the surfreon stands ; in operations at the joints, however, he should always place himself so that he may hold with his left hand the part to be removed, as he will require to manipulate it himself during the operation, in order to put the ligaments upon the stretch as he is about to divide them with the knife, and to dis- Jirticulate the bones when their division is com- pleted. All the different modes of amputating which have been described may be employed in these operations. The circular meiJiod, however, is not so often adopted as the flap, or the oval incision, although it answers well in certain situations, in the wrist joint, for example. As a general rule it is not so convenient as the other methods, because it does not admit of so free an exposure of the ar- ticulation. The methods with double and single flaps are ex- cellent operations in many cases. Indeed, vvhatever may be said in favour of circular as compared with flap operations in the continuity of limbs, there can be no doubt that at many of the joints the latter method is very decidedly preferable to the former. In a double flap operation, the joint should gene- rally be opened after the first flap is formed ; the ligaments should next be freely divided, and the bone disarticulated, when the knife may be carried through the joint, to complete the operation by the formation of the second flap. It is as well, when practicable, to have the vessels in the second flap, that they may not be divided till the close of the operation, but this is not absolutely necessary : indeed, in the hip-joint, where the danger from hemorrhage is greatest, the anterior flap, which contains the vessels, is usually made first. They can, in fact, either at the hip or shoulder, be eifec- tually compressed before they are cut through by the hands of an assistant, passed into the wound behind the knife while the flap is being made. In a single flap operation, it may sometimes be de- sirable to make the flap first, then to disarticulate the joint and carry the knife straight out on the opposite side ; while, in some cases, the reverse order of proceeding may be preferred ; or both incisions may be made before the joint itself is at- tacked. The orxil incision seems to belong almost ex- clusively to the articulations, being rarely, if ever, practised in the continuity of the limbs. It is one of the best among the many operations proposed for the shoulder joint; and is often practised in the removal of fingers and toes, and of metacarpal and metatarsal bones. The division of the ligaments and the disarticu- lation of the bones is perhaps the most diflicult part of these operations ; and repeated practice on the dead subject, as well as anatomical knowledge, is necessary to enable the surgeon to effect it with precision and dexterity. In a largo, loose joinr, like the shoulder, there will bo no great difliculty, but the case is otherwise in close and complicated articulations, like those of the carpus and tarsus. The surgeon should throughout the operation hold the part to be removed in his left hand, and, when the joint is exposed, and he has determined in his mind the exact position of the articular interval, he should put the ligaments on the stretch, and then divide them by touching them lightly with tlie point of the knife. In the application of the knife no force is required ; its point only should be used, and its blade should never be allowed to become locked between the articular surfaces. If he knows where to look for the joint, he need never break off the point of his knife or notch its edge, by cutting forcibly and uselessly against the bones. Amputations at the joints have been advocated by many French surgeon's of note, Lisfranc, Blan- din, Velpeau, &c., but they have never been much in favour in this country, where they are seldom practised, excepting in the smaller joints of the hand and foot, or when no choice remains, as at the hip or shoulder. Many surgeons hesitate to per- form these operations, knowing the serious conse- quences resulting from wounds into joints, and dreading constitutional sj'mptoms of a similar cha- racter. The large open wound made in amputa- tion, however, is not altogether a parallel case to a punctured wound of a closed sj'novial cavity, and it is, to say the least, extremely doubtful, whether, other things being equal, amputations at the joints are really followed by more serious constitutional irritation than amputation at other parts, while they have the advantage of often permitting a greater length of limb to be preserved. The pre- sence of the articular cartilage is also considered an objection by many, on the ground that adhesion cannot take place between it and the surface of the flap, and that the wound will not heal till it has been absorbed or has exfoliated. In consequence of this idea, it has been recommended that the cartilage should be scraped or sliced away from the bone beneath, and some surgeons, at the present day, in order to remove it completelj', even think it better to saw off a thin slice of the bone. The ob- jection, however, has been made on insufficient grounds, for the experience of amputation at the small joints amply demonstrates that the siu-faces can adhere, and that the wound often heals by the first intention as readily and as rapidly as it could possibly do in any case where the bone had been sawn througli. On this subject M. Velpeau re- marks, that " it is incorrect to say, with Bc'clnrd and many others, that after amputation in the contiguity, the smooth face of the cartilage does not unite with the flaps, but remains free even after the final cure, unless by some means or an- other inflammation has been excited. This can only take place by exception. Whether the in- strument come in contact wiih it or not, it never- theless contracts, and that speedil}', firm adhesions with the tissues that cover it, and it is as useless to scrape it with a scalpel as to cauterise it in the manner practised in the time of Heliodorus." {Vd- peau, Oj>. Surg. vol. ii. p. 488 of Mott's Transla- tion.) When, however, the wound does not unite by adhesion, it is perfectly true that the cartilage does undergo removal while the suppurative process is going on; either by gradual disintegration from its free surface, or by a species of necrosis in masses, and separation from its attached surface to the bone beneath. Dr. Pancoast, of Philadelphia, gives the following