468 CONJUNCTIVA, junctiva is secondarily affected. The cancerous infiltration occurs in many cases without inflainnia- tory symptoms. The pale red or bluish hard nodules^re generally painless; afterwards they become paler, softish, decay, and leave an ulcer, which has an elevated, hard, and irregular margin, and an uneven, nodular, reddish, and infiltrated base. The medullary and melanotic cancer appear, primarily and secondarily, in the conjunctiva. Cancers which emanate from the interior of the globe, very rarely, if ever, involve the conjunctiva ; the latter appears only implicated by those which spring from the tissue upon the sclerotica, from the eyelids, or from the appendages of the globe. The nodules are at first small, circumscribed, movable, painless, and of various colours ; afterwards they become painful, increase rapidly in size, &c. Such primary nodules are not unfrequently ob- served on the semilunar fold and on the caruncule. (See Seiiz, Handhuch dev gesammten Aiigenheii- lunde, Erlangen, 1855, S. 99 ; also L. A. Dh- marres. Maladies des Yeua.; 1855, t. ii. p. 217 ; also Will. Mackettzie, On Diseases ofiheEye, 1854, p. 253.) Cancer of the conjunctiva, when primary, spreads by preference in the conjunctiva. It may, according to Mackenzie, be distinguished from syphilitic ulceration, by its slow progress, by its not causing so much swelling, and by its In'story. As for the treatment, Dr. Jacob and Mr. Bow- man are of opinion that it bids defiance to all reme- dies short of extirpation. The sooner this is done the better. Dr. Mackenzie (4th ed,, 1854, p. 140) saj's :—" The upper lid will, much more than we could suspect, supply the loss of the lower Ud, and the lower that of the upper. If, however,, the whole of the upper lid, or if both lids be removed, the cornea will become gradually opaque from ex- posure, and the conjunctiva cuticularand insensible. Even when the disease is confined to the movable parts of the lids, I consider it better to remove it by a semilunar incision than by one of the form of the letter V, and to allow the wound to heal by granulation, than by bringing its edges together with stitches." Benignant Excrescences of tlie Conjunctiva.— Pinguecula, or pter3'gium pingue. (See Mr. Dixon's account of the appearance of a healthy conjunctiva.) This little tumor contains no fat, but epithelial cells and pigment granules. {Wellcr, Krankheitm des Meiiscklichen Auges, S. 196 ; Magne, Ann. d'OcuL, vol. xxix. p. 218 ; Seiiz, 1. c. S. 86.) It may be removed with forceps and scissors, if it gives rise to inconvenience. Polypus of the con- junctiva is analogous to those which occur on other raucous membranes. It is more or less consistent and vascular, reddish or white, superficially smooth or lobulatcd, from the size of a pea to that of a hazel-nut, and generally attached by a small narrow peduncule. Small lobulated warts, resembling granulations, are frequently observed on the semi- lunar fold and on tlie caruncule ; and they are some- times pedunculated, and resemble polypi in struc- ture, consisting of nuclei, rondate cells, and of elastic and cellular tissues. (See Graefe, Archiv. fur Ophth. Bd. 1, Abtheil. S. 289.) These, when removed, are very apt to return. Mackenzie (Diseases iflhc Eijc, I 054) describes two dilfercnt fungous diseases of the conjunctiva. The one has been described and figured by Beer under the name of cxophthalmia fungosa. {Lchre von den Augenkrankkeilen, vol, ii. p. 223, pi. ii. fig. 6; Wien. 1817.) The fungus is of a deep'red, mchning to a livid colour ; it aflects chiefly tlie conjunctiva covering the sclerotica, over which It is'elevated in irregular soft smooth masses. It sometimes rises from the insides of the lidsj but never from the surface of the cornea. If negle'cted it may reach to a great size, and be confounded with other diseases. The disease is very slow in its progress, and the subjects of it are of decidedly scrofulous habit. The second variety of fungus of the conjunctiva is almost of a gelatinous consistence, and of a light yellow or brownish colour. It is met with chiefly on the inside of the lids, especially of the upper, and in the superior fold of the conjunctiva. It sometimes attains a very considerable size; and, although soft and destitute of red vessels, is apt to prove destructive, by the pressure which it exer- cises upon the eyeball. Both these fungous affec- tions are merely mechanically destructive. The internal use of cod-liver oil appears to have been of some use. Should the disease still advance, extirpation of the fungus should not be delayed. Warts of the conjunctiva {Slelluag von Carion) ; conjunctival and sub-conjunctival tu- inors {Mackenzie). They are attached to the con- junctiva by abroad base, and vary in size from that of a hempseed to that of a bean ; are globular or oval, sometimes smooth, generally nodular, and have one or more hairs growing from them. The colours they assume are red, yellow, or white ; some are soft, others of fibrous and even cartilagi- nous consistence. They are generally met with at the corneal edge. They maj', if inconvenient, be re- moved with the knife, and the surface of the wound be touched with nitrate of silver. (For cases, see Stelltcag von Carion, vol. ii. 3rd ed. p. 878 ; and Arlt, Graefe, Mackenzie, White Cooper, &c.) Dr. Mackenzie (ed. 1854, p. 252) says:—"[ have seen several cases of what seemed scrofulous tubercles, growing from the sclerotica, and elevat- ing the conjunctiva. Such tumors are of a whitish or yellowish colour ; they appear as if about to suppurate, but continue firm, slowly increase to perhaps the size of a hazel-nut, burst through the conjunctiva, but do not couie to suppuration. If extirpation is attempted, the diseased mass is found to be soft and easilj- torn." A congenital accumulation of pigment in and beneath the conjunctiva, has, among others, been described by Desmarres {Traite des Mai. des Vcua; 1847, p. 353). Telangiectasia:, or vascular nasvi of the conjunctiva, do not differ from those else- where. They ought to be removed as early as possible, either by ligature or with tlio knife, cr by repeatedly touching them with tlio actual cautery. (For cases, see Amman, Zeitschrift J'lir OjMh., !). Bd., S. 84 ; and Kiin. Darstcl/ungoi, &c.. 2 Bd., Taf. ix. Fig. 50 ; also liooshrocck^ Corns. d'Ofhth., vol. i. p. 333.) Cysts in the conjunctiva resemble in their development those in other pints of the body. They have been observed by Weller {Avgcnkra7ikhcitcn, S. 198) ; by A^''Hrlomont and Testctin, Arlt, Stellwag von Carion, and others. Among the abnormal contents of the conjunctiva we may mention the extravasation of blood, wdenia, emphysema, and prolapse of the contents of the globe EHravasation of blood in the tissue of the con- junctiva has been seen after injuries to the eyes