''7'* FISTULA IN PERINiEO, tached at its base, and is to correspond in shape and size to the space between the knuckles; its apex should be directed towards the free edge of the web the flap being dissected back is to be applied to the cleft between the fingers, and must be cut of suffi- cient length for this purpose. The remainder of the web is now to be divided longitudinally into lateral halves ; the edges of each lateral half are to be adjusted by sutures, and the triangular flap fitted into the cleft, and there maintained by the same means. It has also been suggested to make an anterior and posterior triangular flap from the Aveb, to truncate their apices, and unite them by sutures between the fingers before making the longitudinal section of the web. A very ingenious operation is described by M. Ne'laton, which must ef- fectually prevent the growing together of th contiguous surfaces of the fingers. It con- sists in dividing the web into a posterior and an auterior flap ; the posterior flap being intended to cover the raw surface of one finger, and the anterior that of the other. Each flap is formed by one longitudinal and two transverse incisions, each is the counterpart of the other, and has three raw unattached edges, and one attached. They are cut in the following manner. A longitudinal in cision is made in the centre of the phalanx of one finger, on its dorsal aspect for the posterior flap, on the palmar aspect of the other for the anterior flap ; the length of the incision must correspond with the depth of the web; from either extremity of the longitudinal incision, a smaller transverse one is to be made towards the phalanx of the connected finger. The lower transverse incision will corres- pond to the free edge of the web ; the upper will cross the cleft between the fingers. Each flap is now to be dissected back towards the contiguous finger ; in doing this the two folds of tlie web will be separated from each other, one entering into the formation of the posterior flap, the other into tiie formation of the anterior. Each flap will now be found to be attached by one edge onlj--, and is to be wrapped round the denuded surface of the finger to which it is attached. The flaps are to be adjusted by strips of adhesive plaster and by sutures.] FISSURE (from findo, to cleave asunder). A fine crack in a bone is so called. FISTULA, an opening, the consequence of a wound, abscess, or ulceration; it has no disposition to heal, and is connected with a ciiannel, ur canal, running more or less deeply and extensively in the soft parts. From the resemblance of thi{ channel to the tube of a pipe, or reed, the term is derived. A fistula commonly leads to the situation of some disease keeping up suppuration ; and from which place the matter cannot readily escape. Thus, the presence of a dead piece of bone, or of a foreign body often keeps up suppuration, andtliefistulaconti- nues for tiie discharge of the nuitter. When an abscess forms near the anus, the matter lodges, the part is disturbed by the action of the spiiincter, and iijixlula in ano is produced. Sometimes a fistula IS jiroduced by the continual discharge of some healthy secretion through a wound, or ulcer, as ex- emplilied in salivary, lachrymal, and urinary fistulas. The lining of old fistulie may assume the appearance of certain mucous membranes, though follicles and villi, like those of the intestinal canal, have never been observed in it. As Andral re- marks, when most perfectly organised, it can only be compared to the most simple mucous membranes such as those of the ureters, or lesser branches oi' the hepatic ducts. The lining of fistulce, like nui- co«s membranes in general, when not irritated, is pale and of a greyish colour ; but, if affected with acute or chronic inflammation, it exhibits the same shades of injection and redness seen in a mucous textm-e. It is also liable to certain aff"ections, which pertain almost exclusively to mucous mem- branes, as fungous growths, callosities, &c. The cellular tissue, connected with the lining of fistula, may become thickened and indurated, just like the submucous cellular tissue in general. Finally, just as adhesions never take place between the' different points of a surface lined by a mucous membrane, unless a solution of continuity has taken place in it, so the sides of a fistula cannot adhere together, and its cavity be obliterated, unless in- cisions be made to bring the textures and the membrane-like investment of it into contact. (See Andral, Precis d'Anat. Pathol, t. i. p. 261 ) FISTULA IN ANO. See Anus. FISTUL.E IN PERINiEO. Incisions in the ui-ethra generally heal with great facility; a fact amply proved by the common result of litho- tomy: but, when apertures are formed in the urethra, either from diseased states of the consti- tution and the part together, or of the latter alone, and when they are accompanied with any con- siderable destruction of the sides of the urethra, and of the corpus spongiosum, they are difiicult of cure. {Sir B. Brodie, in Med. Gaz. Dee. 26.1835. No. 13.) When the methods recommended for the re- moval of strictures (See Urethra, Strictures op) have not been attempted, or not succeeded, natme endeavours to relieve herself by making a new passage for the urine, which, although it olten prevents immediate death, yet, if not remedied, is productive of much inconvenience and misery to the patient through life. The mode in which nature endeavours to procure relief is by ulceration on the inside of that part of the urethra which is en- larged, and situated between the stricture and the bladder. Thus the urine becomes applied to a new surface; irritating the part, and occasioning the formation of an abscess, to which the urine has [iccess; and when the matter is discharged, be it b}^ nature or by art, the urine passes thi'ough the perture, and generally continues to do so, whilst the stricture remains. {Sir A. Cooper, Surgical Essays, part ii. p. 212.) In rare cases a fistula in perinfeo occurs as a consequence of severe gonorrhoea. The urine conies away in a very small stream, because the urethra is inflamed, swollen, and contracted. At last, a pain is felt in the perinajum, a tumor is felt there; and this state is frequently attended with complete retention of urine, or with great diflicuUy of making water. At length the tumor bursts, or is opened with a lancet, pus is discharged, then the difficulty of making water subsides, and, a day or two afterwards, the patient finds that, whenever e voids liis urine, a portion of it comes through the opcniing in the perinajum. {Sir B. Brodie, in London I\hd. Gaz. vol. for 1835—36, p. 486.) The ulceration, which is usually on the side of the urethra next the external surface, commonly begins near, or close to the stricture, although the stricture may be at a considerable distance from the bladder. The stricture is sometimes included