3-18 of the operation, the cut branches of the facial and temporal arteries are commanded by ligature or pressure, and the violence of the haimorrhage is moderated by pressure on the carotids. After re- moval of the bone, the deep vessels, branches of the internal maxillary, are secured either by liga- ture, or by firm pressure with charpie, or dossils of lint. The facial flap is replaced, brought toge- ther over the charpie by which the cavity is filled, and united by interrupted or convoluted suture. (See Listo7i's Mem. part ii. p. 160.) In the examples of this operation which I have seen, any preliminary ligature of the common ca- rotid artery would have been totally unnecessary. In one instance the internal maxillary was cut, but secured with the greatest facility. In a case, oper- ated upon by Mr. Liston in University College Hospital, not a single ligature was necessary. It is an important object to prevent, as much as possible, the blood from flowing towards the throat, in the early part of the operation : hence the ad- vantage of the sitting posture, and of Gensoul's plan of beginning with the division of the cheek- bone, or z3^goma, before the nasal process of the upper jaw-bone itself is attacked. [In making the external incisions, the surgeon should be guided :—1. By the size, form, and con- nections of the diseased structures to be removed. 2. By the position of the parotid duct, which should be carefully avoided in order to guard against the occurrence of a salivary fistula. 3. By the course of the principal branches of the facial nerve, so as to prevent, as far as possible, the de- form.ity arising from the paral3-sis of the muscles of the face consequent upon the division of the nerves. The cases for which this operation was originally proposed by Mr. Lizars, M. Gensoul,and by Pupuy- tren, viz. for malignant disease of the antrum, are not in the present day considered suitable for it. The all but certainty with which a recurrence of these malignant growths takes place soon after their removal, has induced surgeons to restrict this formidable operation to tumors of a non-malignant character, such as those of the fbroits, oliondro- matoits, or myeloid kind. Cases occasionally occur in which the removal of a portion only of the superior maxilla will be required. This may be eifected either with or with- out an external incision depending upon the size and situation of the piece to be removed. When the disease is confined to the alveolar process, it may be found convenient to cut out a triangular piece of bone, with its apex above, and its base corresponding to the alveolar process. When the disease extends much beyond the alveolar border, it may be necessary to make two vertical divisions of the bone on either side of the disease, and to connect tliese by a horizontal one above it.] See.W. Gensoul, Lettre Chir. sur quelques Maladies Graves du sinus Maxillaire et de I'Os Maxillaire Infii- rieur, 8vo. Paris, 1833. Lislon, in Elements of Sur- :ery, part ii. 8vo. IS.'il; also in Trans, of Royal Med. "hir. Hoc. vol. xx. G.Guthrie, in Loud. Med. Gnz. 1835, 1836. A. L. M. Velpemi, Nouv. lilem. de M^il. Op^-ratoiie. O. llegnoH, Sull' Estirpazione doUa Quasi Totalita dell' Usso Mascellare Superiore Sinis- tro per Osteo Sarcoma Memoriu, 8vo. Pisa, 1832. Prnfessor Ret/noli makes only one external incision, which reaches from the external canthus to the com- missure of the lips. Also Sull' Estirpii/.ione d'un Osteo Sarcoma, &c. Pisa, 1831; and Mem. Intorno L'Asportazionc di Gran. Parte dell' Osso Alnsccllare Superiore destro. This operation >Yas performed in 1828. J. If. Nivison, Malignant Tumor successfully BONES, EXCISION OF, removed from left Antrum, in Ed. Med. Surg. Jour. No. 83. Irving's Obs. on the same, No. Si. James Syme, iu Ed. Med. Surg. Journ. No. 100, p. 218, and No. 101, p. 238. Mr. Lizars' cases, I believe, are re- corded in the London Med. Gaz. Chelius, System of Surgery, translated by South. London 1815. N6laton, Elem. de Pathol. Chir. t. i. Paris, 1844. [EXCISI&N OF BOTH SUPERIOR MaXILLARY Bones.] [In the year 1824 Rogers of New York, and soon after Liston and Dupuytren, performed to a greater or less extent partial resections of both jaw-bones. The first total removal of these bones must, however, be ascribed to J. F. Iley- felder, who accomplished it in the j'ear 1844 and repeated it twice in the years 1850 and 1852. {Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science for February, 1857, p. 108.) His first patient laboured under what he termed pseudo-plasma, aSecting both upper jaws, but which he afterwards desig- nated as a medullary carcinoma. The patient recovered, but was attacked some months after- wards with a similar disease, situated in the frontal region, of which he died in Oct. 1855, fifteen months after the operation. Heyfeldcr's second and third cases were performed for open cancer implicating both upper jaws. One of these also died from a return of the disease twenty-three months from the time of the operation. The other was reported well a year after. The operation in Heyfelder's first case is thus described by his son Dr. Oscar Heyfelder (op. cit). " The patient was seated in an arm chair; his head supported against the breast of an assistant, and fixed in this situation. The operator made two incisions from the outer angles of the e3*es to the corners of the mouth, and pared all the softer parts away from the tumor to the inner angles of the eyes and the nasal bones. The flap thus formed being drawn upwards over the forehead, and the orbital margin being cleared down to the inferior ridge, he separated on both sides the juncture between the jaw and cheek-bone by means of a chain-saw introduced through the in- ferior orbital fissure. In the same waj', the sepa- ration of this bone with the nasal bone was eff'ected. Then the vomer and the other junctions still existing were divided by a bone-forceps, and the soft palate separated from the hind edge of tlie hard palate. After that, pressure with a chisel upon the upper part of the tumor sufliced to dis- locate the upper jaw-bones out of the principal junctions, and so to finish the operation. It lasted three quarters of an hour, as three times faintini; of tlie patient had necessitated rather long inter- ruptions." Diefl:enbach, in 1848, performed this operation, in consequence of a large tumor of the face, lie incised the soft parts in the median line, and re- moved the greater part of both upper jaw-bones, together with the palatine bones and a part of the cheek-bone. Maisonneuvc, in 1849, totally removed l oth ossa maxilhiria superiora, foUowiflg the same method as Dieffenbach as regards the cutaneous incision. The operation was for a case o"f cancer; the man operated on died a few days after. Maisonneuve, in 1850, performed the same operation upon a girl who had long been employed iu a phosphorus match manufactory. Similar operations have been performed by Dietz and Jiingken; the latter separated both bones ni