DISLOCATION. 562 with perfect facility; and this from one to three inclies, according to the age and stature of the individual, and the extent of displacement. Those changes in the length of the limb are not only made with great ease, but without any pain; so as to prove the absence of every kind of disease, as well as of a cavity proper for receiving and retaining the head of the bone. In twenty-six cases met with by Dupuytren, the luxation existed on both sides, with the ex- ception of two or three. Most of the individuals who have had the infirmity have been females; and, in the above twenty-six, there were only three or four males. {Clin. Chir. t. iii. p. 251.) [The appearances on dissection presented by these congenital dislocations at the hip joint, as might be expected, vary considerably according to the date at which they are examined. In the first few months after birth, the acetabulum, head of the femur, and capsule of the joint are but little altered ; as time proceeds, however, they are considerably modified — Ihe acetabulum loses its cup-like form, becomes triangular, and nearly filled up—llie head of the bone becomes flattened, loses its cartilaginous crust, and ultimately becomes absorbed—the capsular ligament is by degrees elongated, assumes an hour-glass shape, and at last, gradually thinned by pressiu-e, becomes perforated, and allows the upper end of the femur to protrude through it. The ligamentum teres remains entire for many years, and is in some cases found greatly thickened; it, however, in the course of years gives way. The distortion which the bones of the pelvis are gradually made to undergo, depends chiefly upon the removal of the pressure from the acetabula, and its trans- ference to the dorsum of the ilium ; also, to some extent, upon the altered direction of the action of the principal muscles and tendons. Thus the groove for the iliacus and psoas tendon is soon deeply marked, and the anterior inferior spine consequently made more prominent. The ilia appear to be forced upwards and backwards. The antero-posterior diameter of the inlet and outlet of the pelvis are narrowed, and the transverse diameter of the entire pelvis increased—the thyroid foramen having its longer diameter in the transverse instead of in the vertical direction. These peculiarities are of course more marked the longer the dislocation has existed. It should also be observed that in some of these cases the neck and head of the thigh- bones are twisted in the direction forwards on the shaft, and that in such cases the posterior, instead of the anterior, surface of the head and neck, would rest upon the dorsum of the ilium, and that con- sequently the toes and knee of the affected limb would not be directed bo much inwards as in the ordinary dislocation.] Of course the treatment can be but palliative. As the weight of the trunk aggravates the dis- placement, repose may be useful ; but it is not necessary to keep the patient in the recumbent position; because, in the sitting posture, there is no stress upon the thigh-bones, the body resting en- tirely on the tuberosities of the ischia. Let these individuals, therefore, choose a profession which will keep them a good deal in the sitting posture. Dupuytren also commends cold bathing, and a bandage, or belt, round the pelvis, by which the trochanters may be combined and kept steadily at a unifoiTO height, {See Dupui/trcn, op. et vol, cit. art. 8.) Besides the sources of information already quoted, I refer to Caillard Dilloniire sur les Lm - alions originelles, ou Congcnilates des Femurs, 8vo. Paris, 1828; John North, in Med. Chir. Tran^. vol. 19. Rolade Lafonde; sur les Prindpalr> Difformitcs du Corps Humain, S[c. 2 vols. 4to. Paris, 1819; and to W. Coulson on Disease ofil Hip-Joint, p. 68. 4to. Lend. 1837, [Since the time of Dupuytren, several surgeons have attempted the reduction of these dislocations. In 1835, M. Humbert de Morley published fivf examples of confirmed cure. The replacement wa effected by gradual extension, continued for 5* minutes in one case, in others for three or four days, and in one for as long a period as 75 days and, after the reduction, the patients were suIj mitted to extension for a considerable perioil longer, to guard against the danger of a relapse, so that the duration of the treatment was not less than a year. The reality of the reduction in these cases has been called in question, and some sur- geons who saw the patients believed the head of the bone had been drawn into the sciatic notch, and not into the acetabulum. All were agreed, however, that they were much benefited by the treatment. Subsequently, M. Pravaz published several cases, the result of which was less equivo- cal, but the treatment was very tedious and protracted. In the first instance, the patient was submitted to a preparatory extension, lasting from four to six months, by means of weights attached to the limbs—counter-extension being made from the perineum and axillce. At the end of this period, when the head of the bone appeared to have approached the acetabulum, the reduction was completed by more powerful extension made with pulleys; the operator, at the same time, with one hand pressing the trochanter downwards and inwards, and with the other abducting the limb. To maintain the reduction, firm pressure round the pelvis was applied, and maintained for five or six months, the patient being kept almost motionless: during this time, under the influence of the pressure, the head of the bone was found to sink into its cavity, sometimes by slow degrees, sometimes more suddenly. The limb was then exercised by passive movements for four or five months longer, the patient still recumbent; and it was only at the end of this period that the erect position was permitted, and he was allowed to walk about with the assistance of crutches. M. Malgaigne states, however, that in one of M. Pravaz's best cases the cm-e was not permanent, and he thinks it probable that in the majority of theni the reduction was imperfect, and the dis- placement liable to recur. M. J. Gu6rin has published several cases of cure by extension, combined with subcutaneous section of the muscles and tendons, and if necessarj', of the ligaments ai-ound the joint. The division of these structures enables tlie reduction to be effected more rapidly than by extension alone; but it still requires to be maintained for a lengthened period by pressure with suitable apparatus. The pro- bability of success in these cases will of course bo greater in proportion as they are undertaken at an early period of life, and before the changes in tlie bones and ligaments have had time to become far advanced. On the subject of congenital disloca- tions of the hip-joint, the following works may be consulted, in addition to those already men-