304 BLADDER. I have known much good to arise from the use of the vinum colchici, thirty drops being given three times daily for three or four successive days." {Sir B. Brodie, op. cit. p. (j3.) [Chronic injlammation of the bladder is most com- monly a secondary disease, occasioned by the presence of a calculus, or by the incomplete evacu- ation of the urine, in cases of stricture or prostatic enlargement. In all these diseases, the inflamma- tion of the bladder is often one of the most urgent and distressing complications. In paralysis of the bladder, also, the inability of this organ to expel its contents, combined perhaps with the diminished vitality consequent upon the loss of nervous influ- ence, is soon followed by inflammatory action. Occasionally, however, the inflammation may be ])rimary; Sir B. Brodie speaks of having seen a few patients in whom it had existed for a consider- able length of time, and could not be traced to any other disease. Some of these cases may perhaps be the result of exposure to cold, which is so common a cause of inflammation of the respiratory and alimentary mucous surfaces, that we may rea- sonably expect the urinary apparatus will not always be exempted from its influence. The term vesical catarrh is often applied to this disease, the increased secretion of mucus forming its most con- stant and leading characteristic. The following succinct and accurate account of the symptoms, from the earliest to the most ad- vanced stages, is given by Sir B. Brodie. " The patient has frequent desire to void his urine, and the urine deposits, as it cools, a thick adhesive mucus, which clings to the bottom of the vessel. This mucus is of a greyish colour, often exhibiting white streaks, arising from a deposition in it of phosphate of lime, and sometimes tinged with blood. There is pain previously to making water, and also while the urine flows. These symptoms may continue for a great length of time without becoming urgent. However, they gradually m- crease, until the irritation of the bladder becomes excessive, the quantity of mucus deposited being so great, as in some cases to be nearly equal to that of the urine itself. In this last respect, how- ever, there is a great difi'erence ui difi'erent cases. The'urine ultimately assumes a brownish hue, and is of a most offensive ammoniacal odour. The ex- tension of the inflammation to the glandular struc- ture of the kidneys is indicated by the access of a still more formidable train of symptoms. The pa- tient has shiverings ; is troubled with sickness and vomiting, with cold extremities and great prostra- tion of strength ; his pulse becomes^ irregular and intermittent, his tongue brown; he sinks and dies. (finDis.ofthe Urinary Organs, ed. 4, p. 108.) Condition of tU I/n«e.—The leading peculiarity of this secretion in chronic inflammation of the bladder, is the presence in it of mucus in increased quantitjs and of a viscid adhesive quality. The mucus falls to the bolt m as the urine cools, and after it has been deposited, it does not readily mix again with the urine when agitated, but adheres to the bottom of the vessel, and when an attempt is made to pour it away, it is drawn out iii long ropes, and hence the term " ropij mucus " is com monly used in describing it. The mucus is always alkaline ; its tendency, therefore, will bo to impart an alkaline quality to the nriiie ; but wlien only pre- sent in small quantity, it may not be suflicient to neutralise the normal acid of the urine, and that fluid will still exhibit an acid reaction. Sometimes litmus paper, reddened by the urine, will again be- come blue as it sinks to the bottom of the vessel, and comes in contact with the alkaline mucus. A white amorphous sediment of phosphate of lime is often mixed with the mucous deposit. Phosphate of lime is present in small quantities in the normal secretions of all mucous membranes, and is pro- duced in excess when these membranes are irri- tated and inflamed. In addition to the phosphate of lime, the urine, as it becomes alkaline, will deposit crystals of the triple phosphate of ammonia and magnesia. As the alkalescence increases, phos- phate of lime from the urine will be also thrown down; but by far the larger quantity of this latter substance is formed, as already stated, by the mucous membrane. It is a mixture of these phosphates which constitutes the concretion known as the fusible calculus. As the disease progresses, pus is mixed with the mucus, or the mucus may be replaced almost entirely by pus. The pus globules fall to the bottom of the urine, and form a sediment, but instead of being semi-transparent and viscid, like mucus, it is of an opaque whitish yellow colour ; when both are present, they may be found to have subsided in layers, the pus rest- ing upon the mucus. Pus globules readily diffuse themselves in the urine when agitated, and render it cloudy; mucus, as already stated, does not mix, but remains at the bottom. Pus, however, by the action of alkalies, is converted into a semi- transparent gelatinous substance ; hence in very alkaline urine this distinction will not alwa3-s hold good. The clear urine, from which pus globules have been deposited, contains the albumen of the liquor puris in solution ; and this may be made evident by the addition of nitric acid and the ap- plication of heat ; the liquor muci in true mucus contains no albumen. The presence of albumen might perhaps give rise to a suspicion of diseased kidneys ; but the two cases may usually be dis- tinguished by the circumstance that the quantity of albumen present in purulent urine is propor- tionate to the amount of pus globules deposited, and that it never approaches in amount to the albumen of diseased kidneys. In purulent urine also the specific gravity is unaltered, or, if anything, is increased ; whereas in true albuminuria it is re- markably diminished. The deposit of phosphates often nuich resembles that of pus globules ; the phosphates, however, may be known by their solubility in acids, which have no influence on the pus globules. Tlie microscope will at once display the difference between pus globules and phosphatic deposits, for the appearances of which hiltei' the reader is referred to the article Uuin.^ry Depo- sits ; but it is not alu-ai/s easy to distinguish with certainty between pus globules and certain nu- cleated particles met with in mucus, and usua ly spoken of as mucus corpuscles. The pus globules are rather larger than blood globules, tlicir diameter being about of an inch. They are sphenca in form; and tliey are white, opaque, and granular on their surface. The addition of acetic acid renders evident, in their interior, the presence of three or four transparent nuclei. But the mucus corpuscle is also a granular round nucleated pariicle, and it is often nearly, if ""^ ""P"',^'; .Ji distinguish between them. Dr. GoUiu,^ Bud ob- servest indeed, that it may l^^,.'!""*"""'!7,"; ther they are not identical. Where mucus and