ANUt). 256 If these symptoms are not very urgent, they may commonly be relieved by a gentle cathartic, . accompanied by diluent and diuretic medicine, but if they amount to a corapleto retention, the use of the catheter will occasionally become necessary. This practice, however, was condemned by Pott, who observed that the retention here is spasmodic, and arises from irritation, notwithstanding the participation of tlie neck of the bladder, in some degree, in tlie inflammation. The most effectual means of relief seemed to him to be the warm bath, or semicupium ; the application of bladders with hot water to the pubes and perineum ; and, above all other re- medies, the injection of a glyster, consisting of warm water, oil, and opium. (Op. cit. p. 22.) "A painful tenesmus is no uncommon attendant upon an inflammation of the parts about the rectum. If a dose of rhubarb, joined with the confect. opii, does not remove it, the injection of thin starch and opium, or tinct. thebaic, is almost infallible." " The bearing down in females, as it proceeds, in this case, from the same cause (viz. irritation), admits of relief from the same means as the tenesmus." " In some habits, an obstinate costiveness at- tends this kind of inflammation, accompanied, not unfrequently, with a painful distention and en- largement of the hcemorrhoidal vessels, both in- ternally and externally. While a large quantity of hard fseces is detained within the large intestines the whole habit must be disordered; and the sj'raptomatic fever, which necessarily accompanies the formation of matter, must be considerably heightened. And while the vessels surrounding the rectum (which are large and numerous) are distended, all the ills proceeding from pressure, inflammation, and irritation, must be increased." (p. 23.) Here we must agree with Pott, that antiphlogistic treatment and a low cool regimen must be the remedies : while laxative glysters and a soft cataplasm applied externally, will serve to relax and mollify the parts, at the same time that it hastens the suppuration. [In the present day it is the custom to open freely all abscesses about the anus immediately the matter is formed and fluctuation can be detected. An early and free incision is the best means of pre- venting burrowing of the matter, and affords the patient the best chance of the immediate closure of the abscess without the formation of a fistula.] "In making the opening, the knife or lancet should be passed in deep enough to reach the fluid: and when it is in, the incision should be continued upward and downward, in such manner as to di- vide all tile skin covering the matter. By these I means, the contents of the abscess will bo dis- charged at once and future lodgment of matter will be prevented." (Poll, op. cit. p. 29.) [After the matter has been di.scharged, a piece of ■ soft lint or wool should be lightly inserted between the lips of the incision, to prevent its closing too rapidly ; and attention sho\ild be paid to the state of the wound from day to day while the cavity of the abscess is contractin^r, as it is important to maintain a free and depending outlet for the matter which continues to be secreted; but all stuffing ancL distention of the cavity should he carefully I avoided.] " Upon discharge of the matter, the external swelling subsideB, and the inflamed colour of the skin disappears ; the orifice, which at first was sloughy and foul, after a day or two are past be- comes clean, and contracts in size ; but the dis- charge, by fretting the parts about, renders the patient still uneasy." " As this kind of opening seldom proves sufficient for a cure (though it sometimes does), induration, in some degree, remains ; and if the orifice happens not to be a depending one, some part of the matter lodges, and is discharged by intervals, or may be pressed out by the fingers of an examiner. The disease, in this state, is not very painful ; but it is troublesome, nasty, and off'ensive: the continual discharge of a thin fluid from it creates heat, and causes excoriation in the parts about; it daubs the linen of the patient, and is at times very fetid : the orifice also sometimes contracts so as not to be suf- ficient for the discharge ; and the lodgment of the matter then occasions fresh distui'bance." (FoU, op. cit. p. 51.) The reason of abscesses near the rectum less frequently healing up than others, is referred by Sir B. Brodie to the sinus, or passage for the matter, running through the sphincter muscle. " The sphincter muscle is constantly in motion, con- tracting and dilating, and consequently there is not the repose which is necessary for the cure of the abscess." (Op. et vol. cit. p. 27.) Sir B. Brodie acknowledges that an abscess some- times forms high up by the side of the rectum, above the sphincter ; but this he regards as an occurrence comparatively rare. "These abscesses," he observes, " attain a very large size before the patient sufl'ers much pain or inconvenience. There is at first merely a sense of bearing down of the rectum, occasioned by the pressure of the abscess on it ; but as the abscess increases in size, the patient has violent painful spasms, and a constant feeling as if he wanted to pass a motion, while there are no faeces in the bowel. His sufterings are now excessive. You examine the external parts, and you see nothing ; you introduce your finger into the rectum, and there you perceive the abscess pressing on one side of the gut, and very much diminishing its diameter. Having thus ascertained the position of the abscess, if you examine the external parts again, although you could discover nothing in the first instance, you will probably be able to detect it, deep seated as it is, at the side of the anus. More resistance will be olfei'ed to the pressure of the finger here than elsewhere ; and if you introduce two fingers of the left hand into the rectum, and press on the abscess from within, you will make it actually bulge a little externally." Sir B. Brodie then proceeds to explain, that abscesses, formed high up by the side of the rectum, if left to themselves generally burst into it. ' When the intestine is found to be separated from the surrounding parts by the matter, the operation of dividmg It should be performed at the time the abscess is first opened, and not be deferred " For " said Mr. Pott, " if it bo done properly, it will add so little to the pain which the patient must feel liy opening the abscess, that he will seldom be able to distiuguish the one from the otlier,eitlierwith regard to time or sensation ; whereas, if it be deferreif. ho must either be in continual expectation of a second cutting, or feel one at a time when ho docs not expect it."