.s 3 ' with agonising contraction of the sphincter, and other symptoms already specified. Constipation and the spasm which it excites are amongst the predisposing causes of fissure of the anus. The indurated irecal matter, either by caus- ing ulceration of the mucous membrane, or by immoderate distension of the passage, may bring on the complaint. The unskilful administration of clysters, especially witli pointed rough pipes, is often the cause. Fissures of the anus are frequently met with in persons who have piles ; and accord- ing to Dupuytren, the lodgment of venereal mat- ter near the anus, as happens in many women, may lead to the complaint. Perhaps it would be more correct to say, that the contact of any irritat- ing matter, or secretion, may have this effect. The two first descriptions of fissure described by Dupuytren, may mostly be cured without any operation ; some by dressing them with simple cerate, or ointment containing opium, mercurial preparations, &c. ; others by emollient anodyne lotions or applications. But where the fissure was of the third description, he considered the opera- tion first introduced by Boyer the quickest and surest means of cure. This consists in dividing the anus and sphincter with a probe-pointed bistourj', passed into the rectum, and cutting di- rectly through the fissure, except when it lies forward towards the vagina in the female, or urethra in the male subject. [In these latter cases, he did not cut through the fissure, but divided the sphincter in the lateral direction. He did not consider it absolutely necessary to include the fissure in the incision, because he believed the spasmodic contraction to be the essential part of the disease, and thought that the ulcer would always heal if it were allowed to remain at rest a sufficient length of time, which is effectually secured by the division of the sphincter muscle.] When several fissures existed, Dupuytren sometimes made several cuts in diflFerent directions, from three to four lines deep. (See Clin. Chir. t. iii art. 10.) • According to Boyer and Dupuytren^ the spas- modic contraction of the sphincter is the real disorder, and tlie fissure is only a secondary effect. By putting a stop to this contraction, the disease )3 cured. With this view, Dupuytren tried what ^od could be done by the following application : ijp. Axungia; 3vj., extr. belladonna;, plumbi acetatis a a 3j. Misc. A tent of linen or charpie, or a soft rectum bougie, of moderate size, smeared with this ointment, is introduced, and Its diameter gradually increased to that of the forefinger. Dupuytren states, that the contin- uance of this treatment for a few days fre- quently relieves the pain entirely, and obviates all necessity either for caustic, or the division of the sphincter. Even when the plan does not euro, it always palliates, and therefore should be tried before the latter methods are resorted to. Sir Benjamin Brodie has also spoken of the contraction of the sphincter as a distinct affection ; and describes it as occurring chiefly in women dis- posed to hysteria ; though sometimes in the male sex. He observes, however, that very often a small ulcer of the mucous membrane of the rectum accompanies the spasmodic contraction of tiie sphincter, and is always situated at the posferior part, opposite the point of the os coccygis. AVhen the suffering is not excessive, relief may sometimes ANUS. 261 be derived from purgatives, given to prevent the evacuations from being hard and figured, from an opiate suppository at night, and from the introduc- tion of a bougie into the anus just before the patient has a motion. In worse cases, Sir Ben- jamin Brodie recommends the division of the sphincter with a straight probe-pointed bistoury. The forefinger is passed into the rectum, quite above the sphincter, as a guide to the bistourj'. The fibres of this muscle are thick, and will require two or three strokes for their complete division. An opiate may be given to keep the bowels quiet for two or three days afterwards. Then a dose of castor oil may be exhibited. Simple dressings will suffice to heal the wound. (See Lond. Med. Gaz. 1834—35, p. 26.) In females, the incision should never be made towards the vagina, for it will never heal properly in this situation, and the sphincter will not become perfect again ; so that the patient will be left with an incontinence of fasces. In neither sex should the incision be directed towards the coccyx ; be- cause in this way only the inner or circular fibres of the sphincter can be divided, and not the outer layer which is attached to the apex of the os coc- cygis. The knife passes between the two lateral portions of this outer layer and simply splits or separates them ; and the contractile power of the muscle remains, and interferes with the cicatrisa- tion of the wound. {Brodie, op. cit. 1836, p. 187.) [Many surgeons do not believe with Boyer, that spasm of the sphincter is the primary cause of the disease, but consider the opposite explanation as the true one, namely, that the ulcer is the primary disease, and that the spasm is caused by the pain and irritation produced by the passage of the stools over the ulcerated surface. This latter view of the question has the support of M. Velpeau (see Op. Surg, translated by Mott, vol. iii. p. 1109), and it is also strongly urged by Mr. Quain,' (0}i Dis. of the Itecht}n,Y>. 176.) In support of this view may be mentioned the fact, that cases are not unfrequently met with in which spasm of the sphincter does not exist, or at any rate, does not form a prominent symptom ; it cannot therefore cdwai/s be the cause of the disease ; It would seem more correct, therefore, instead' of subdividing the complaint, as Boyer did, into contraction with fissure and contraction witliout fissure, to speak of fissure with contraction and fissure without contraction. Of late years many surgeons have advocated less extensive incisions than those orininallv re- commended by Boyer. Mr. Copeland states," that in a simple ulcer the mere setting the mucous membrane at liberty by dividing it longitudinally so as to include the ulcer in the incision, is suffi- cient to effect a cure. Mr. Syme and, subse- quently, many otluT surgeons, have inculcated a similar practice, and state that it has been at- tended with coniplcte success in their hands • a further proof that the complaint docs not depend altogether on the contraction of the muscle, or it would not be relieved by the mere scarification o the mucous membrane forming the base of tlie ulcer Ihe milder plan of treatment just alluded to IS now very frequently practised. It is doublfiil nevertheless, whether it can be depended upon to give such complete relief, and lo elfcct so perma- nent a cure m««eascs, as the incision throufili the sphincter. Mr. Salmon states, thnt ho has repcat-