274 ANUS. instrument. In a case which followed the opera- tion for bubonocele attended with mortification of the bowel, Dupuytreii began with dilating the outer opening with a bistoury ; and after ascer- taining the position of the septum between the two orifices of the bowel, he introduced one of the blades of the forceps into each portion of the silt and closed the instrument with the screw. The part of the instrument situated externally to the ridge, or septum, he covered with charpie and a compress. The constriction was soon fol- lowed by colic pains, and tendency to vomit, complaints which were quickly removed by lo- menting the belly. They recurred, however, the instrument became loose, and some discharge en- sued On examination, the septum was found to be partially divided. After the breadth ot the instrument liad been lessened it was applied again ; but when the screw was turned the patient began to suffer such violent pain over the whole of the abdomen, that it was necessary to dimiiush the pressure • and as the instrument was afterwards separated from the parts in a fit of vomiting it was withdrawn. A trial was now made to deter- mine the fseces towards the rectum by pressure on the external opening ; but tlie plan could not be endured, and the hindrance to the egress ot the intestinal matter was so oppressive that it was discontinued. As the forceps used on the fore- eoing occasion did not take sufficient hold ot the septum, nor divide it properly, the instrument was somewhat altered. A particular description of its improved make has been inserted by Bieschet m Gruefe's Journal, b. ii. p. 302 ; and hkewise in t ii. of Dupvytren's Clinique Chir. p. 248 where ii is termed enteroiome. Dr. Reisinger published three cases in which it was successfully employed by Dupuytren. In the first of these examples, when the instrument had been applied, it era- braced the septum so well, that it could not be displaced from it. The colic attacks, vomiting, thirst, furred tongue, and loss of appetite vvhich ensued, soon gave way after the belly had been fomented; the constriction was then increased, and found to produce less and less indisposition. After a few days very little of the fjeces came out of the artificial anus ; and five natural evacuations t>ok place. The blades of the instrument were now completely closed, and on taking it out a slough of membrane was found between the blades ; a proof that the septum was destroyed. On t^^^^^ next day the patient's health was undistuibed Clyster'were now administered, with the view of Llysters were now au.u^..... , promoting evacuations in the natural manner; and the next day the patient had a proper motion, without any assistance, and a very small quantity of the faces passed out of the fistulous opening. This aperture was now merely covered with charpie ; but, as some high granulations were rising, the powder of coloplionium was sprinkled upon them, and compresses and a bandage were applied. The use of clysters was also daily con- tinued, though the patient voided his fajces in the natural way. On discontinuing the external pres- sure, the quantity of discharge from tlie fistulous opening increased ; and, therefore, on the 1st o October, the compresses were again applied, and kept on the part with a spring truss. The treat- ment ended in a perfect cure. In another case, Dupuytren enlarged the lower angle of the outer opening with a bistoury ; and after feeling with his finger that both orifices of the bowel were close to that opening, he applied the forceps. In the evening, the constriction was increased, which was followed by severe colic pains over the whole abdomen. They subsided, however, the following day. From the outer opening, a great deal of slimy excrement was dis- charged. The constriction was not augmented. On the fifth day, the patient was attacked in the night with pain and vomiting. The following night he was also very restless. Though the belly was not tense, it could not bear to be touched. On the eleventh and twelfth days, the patient was free from pain; and, by means of clysters, two natural motions were procured; and on the fourteenth,as the patient was easy, Dupuytren began to make pressui-e on the fistulous opening. On the twenty-sixth, the edges of the aperture were touched with lunar caustic ; and on the twenty-eighth a compress sup- ported by a spring truss was applied. The patient was kept constantly in the horizontal posture ; the faces began to be voided the natural way regu- larly, and the opening contracted in the most favourable maimer. I think the generality of surgeons will agree with Dr. Reisinger, that the foregoing treatment cannot be indiscriminately adopted, in all descrip- tions of patients, without danger. It should never be tried too soon after the formation of an arti- ficial anus ; but time should be allowed for the irritability and sensibility of the gut, and especial y of the septum, to be lessened by the eftect of the air and the pressure of the faces. Nor should the trial ever be made ere it has been fully ascer- tained that nature cannot herself bring about the cure. Breschet mentions an example, in which the foregoing method could not have been prac- tised, in consequence of the mouth of the lower portion of the bowel having been obliterated by the pressure of a large tent, three inches long, which had been worn by the patient two year., and the projecting "^ge "uld not be detected (See Graefe's Journ. de Chtr. b. n. p. 298.) Many other interesting observations on this proposal may be perused in the memoir by Dr. Breschet, m Dr. Reisinger's tract, the title ol which is given m die l,st of works at the end of the present artic e and in Duptiyiren's Lefo,is Orales, &c. t. n. m order not to incur the risk of extra^'asatlou of the faces in the abdomen, the constriction of the sep- t^ should never be increas^ed with impruden haste, before the adhesive inflammation has had time to be produced between the two layers, ol which that part is composed. The following general directions were given DJ Dupuytren for the management of these cases : 1 The two ends of the bowel must be detected 2. The septum between them divided, rf. -ine external opening healed up. , The louver end of the intestine he frequentl found very diflicult to make out. In old cases probe, its detection is almost >mP°;^ ^^^^^j^Jf ^ he relation of the two portions o^J^^^^^^^^^ one another, Dupuytren ^""f. L constant. The stomachic portion, accoranig