mechanical injury by its division with the saw; account of the changes whicli he observed to take place in the cartilage, in a case of amputation at the knee joint, when, from the shortness of the flap, one of the condyles of the femur became exposed. Dr. Pancoast says, " This structure neither red- dened nor became painful, so as to exhibit any coating of synovial membrane or other appearance of organisation. It became by the end of a week softened and pulpy on its free surface, in the same manner as occurs when the joint is subjected to the macerating tub of the anatomist. The pulpy la- mina which was so soft as to leave a track when rubbed with the end of a probe, teas insensibly re- moved tuith the discharges; by a continuation of the same process of softening and removal, the thin la- mina of bone, covering the articular face of the condyles, was completely bared of cartilage in the third week. This lamina first presented a dark gray aspect; some small gray conical elevations soon after made their appearance on its surface, and shortly grew into florid healthy granulations to which, and to other granulations which sprang from the ends of the conical (crucial) ligaments, the cutaneous flaps were ultimately firmly united." (Markoe, on Ampittation at the'Knce-Joi?it. New York Journ. of Med. Jan. 1856, p. 33.) In another case of amputation at the knee joint, by Dr. Markoe, of New York, on a healthy la- bouring man, aged 22, it was observed, on the eleventh day after the operation, " that at the bottom of the wound, where the flaps were a little drawn apart by retraction, there was exposed to view about three-fourths of an inch square of the cartilaginous covering of the outer condyle ; at first it looked white and shining like healthy ca'rti- lage; but gradually the peripheral portion became converted into a soft pultaceous laj'er of a grayish colour, looking like soaked greasy leather. This change spread in about a week over the whole ex posed surface ; and in this soft substance granula- tions rapidly sprung up, which soon converted it into^ a florid suppurating surface. The exposed cartilage all underwent this change, except a small piece, about as large as a three cent piece, where the transformation seemed to go on under it, and between it and the bone, so that it was detached in a thin layer unchanged. This process was com- pleted about the twenty-second day. On removing the loose sequestrum 'of cartilage on the twenty- fifth day, it was f(;und to be connected with a larger piece remaining under the anterior edge of the wound. The whole was as large as a shil- ling piece, and came away easily, leaving a healthy granulating surface beneath." {Nciu York Jour- nal of Med. Jan. 1856, p. 25.) These observations fullv bear out the description given by M. Velpcau of the processes by which re- moval of the cartilnge is sometimes effected. {Med. Oper. vol. ii. Mott's Translation, p. 488.) When the cartilage is healthy, then, it does not appear that any advantage is gained by interfering with it; since, even where immediate union does not take place, the delay caused by its separation, need not, judging by the above cases, be of any groat moment even in a large joint like the knee; the process having been completed in one at the end of the third, and in the other during the fourth week. _ On the other hand, the practice of sawing off a thin slice of the bone seems deserving of con" demnation, since it exposes a large siuface of the cancellated tcx.turc, which has suifered more or less AMPUTATION. 73 and which may possibly necrose or become carious, and give as much or more trouble than the exfolia- tion of the cartilage could possibly do. But, what is more important, the bone cannot be sawn near its articular extremity without injury to numerous large veins, and the consequent risk of phlebitis and purulent absorption; while this risk is avoided altogether, so far, at least, as the vessels of the bone are concerned, by leaving them covered with a layer of cartilage in a healthy condition, Avhich has not been subjected to mechanical injury, and which is, besides, in itself an inert and nonvas- cular tissue.] Arrest op Bleeding after Amputation. After the removal of the limb, the main artery is to be immediately taken hold of with a pair of forceps, or with Assalini'a double tenaculum, and tied with a firm, round, smallish ligature. (See Ligature.) None of the surrounding flesh ought to be tied, but the ligature should be placed round the artery, just where it emerges from its lateral connections. The late Mr. Hey was accustomed to tie the fe- moral artery twice, leaving a small space between the ligatures. Strong reasons against this plan will be found in the article Hemorrhage. The smaller arteries are usually talcen up with a tena- culum. The tenaculum is not so well suited for the larger arteries, because it readily tears their coats: but it answers excellently for the smaller ones, which it draws out with great promptitude. It has also the advantages of not letting the vessel slip away, as the common forceps does ; and of ad- mitting of being held by any body, even a" child, while the surgeon applies the ligature ; a consider- ation of importance in places where no professional assistant is at hand. {Dupuytren, Lemons Orales da Chmque Chr. t. iv. p. 396.) After tying as many vessels as require it, the best practice is to cut off one half of each ligature, near the knot on the surface of the stump. One portion is quite suffi- cient for withdrawing the ligature, when this be- comes loose ; and the other, being only an extra- neous body, and productive of irritation and sup- puration, should never be allowed to remain. The plan here recommended is founded upon that valuable principle, which teaches us to lessen as much as possible, the quantity of extraneous matter in a wound ; and as one half of the liga- ture answers for withdrawing the noose, as soon as loosened, I never follow a method occasionally advised, viz. that of leaving both ends, and twist- ing them together into one cord, by means of which when further twisted at the proper period, it is alleged that the detachment may be more quickly brought about. •' Dr. Vcitch seems to merit the honour of having been the first to set the example of tying every vessel, the femoral as well as the smaller arteries, mlh a Single silk thread, taking care to inchule, as far as was possible, nothing but the artery; and when tins has been done he took off one half of each ligature, as near as possible to the knot, "so that the foreign matter introduced was a mere trifle compared with what I had been accustomed to see. {Julwlt. Med. and Surg. Journ. vol ii n U8.) ■ Mr. Alansoii directed tlio ends of the ligatures to