I K 3 I gradually to remove consciousness. Fear is an aflection of the mind, and can no longer exist when the patient is unconscious ; and the action of that amount of chloroform whicli is consistent with even disordered consciousness is stimulating, and in- creases the force and frequency of the pulse, in the same way as alcohol, and is therefore calculated to counteract the effects of fear whilst it lasts ; and when the chloroform has been absorbed in sufficient quantity to cause unconsciousness, fear subsides, and with the fear, its efTects on the circulation. It 18 a subject of constant observation by the writer, that the pulse, which is extremely frequent in many patients from apprehension, when they begm to inhale, settles down to its natural pace as soon as they become unconscious. If antesthetics were refused the patients who are much afraid, the tunid and feeble, who most require them, would often be deprived of their benefits. Moreover, they would either be prevented from haviim- the advantage of surgery, or they would be subjected ■ to the still greater fear of pain, as well as the pain itselt; for w hatever fears a patient may have when the moment comes for inhaling a narcotic vapour, he has only chosen to breathe it on account of a stul greater fear of pain. The most convenient position in which the pa- tient can be placed whilst taking chloroform is lying on his back or side, as he is then properly ■ supported in the state of insensibility, and can be more easily restrained if he should struggle whilst becoming insensible. The half recumbent posture on a sofa answers very well, and the patient may ' be seated, when that is most convenient to the ; operator ; he must, however, be placed in a larm easy chair with a high back, so that the head as well as the body may be well supported, other- wise he would be apt to slide or fall when insensible, li faintness should come on, the patient must of course be moved into the horizontal position, as under any other circumstances. Judging from experiments on the lower animals the quantity of chloroform which requires to be absorbed to cause insensibility is such that, in the adult human subject of average size and strength, there is about eighteen minims of this liquid in the system durmg an operation, without pain ; but as a gjood deal is dissipated in all the usual methods ot inhalation without being absorbed, a much larger quantity than this is used in making a patient in- sensible. The chloroform also keeps exhaling from the lungs of the patient all the time he is under its mfluence, as can be proved by chemical tests, and must be replaced by the inhalation of a little at a time, during the course of an operation. About four i;ubic inches of vapour of chloroform in one hundred cubic inches of air, are the most suitable propor- tions for causing insensibility during surgical opera- tions. A cubic inch and a half of vapour in each lundred cubic inches of air is, indeed, capable of ;ausing insensibility, but an inconvenient length of .ime IS occupied when the vapour is so much di- nted, whilst, on the other hand, if the air breathed )y the patient contains eight per cent, of vapour •r upwards, it is liable to act with dangerous, and ven fatal, rapidity. The great point to be attended to in the ad- unistration of any narcotic vapour, is to present 0 the patient such a mixture of vapour and air s will produce its effects gradually, and enable He medical man to stop at the right point. Al AN/ESTHESIA. "133 though four per cent, of vapour is the most suitable proportion in the case of chloroform, the quantity may vary from a little more than two per cent, up to about six per cent., without inconvenience or danger, so that the process of inhalation need not be one of mathematical exactitude. A great num- ber of apparatus have been used in the administra- tion of chloroform. That which the writer has employed for ten years is made of metal, and con- sists of a double cylinder, the outer space of which contains cold water, to regulate the evaporation of the chloroform. The inner part of the cylinder is furnished with two coils of stout bibulous paper, to afford a surface, wetted with chloroform, over which the air passes before being inhaled. The quantity of vapour which the air takes up can be ascertained by weighing the apparatus with some chloroform in it, before and after passing a mea- sured quantity of air through it; and the extent of surface of bibulous paper can be altered at dif- ferent times of the yeai-, according to the tempera- ture of the season. This apparatus is attached by a wide elastic tube to a facs-piece, which admits of unimpeded respiration by either the mouth or the nostrils, and is furnished with a valve, by which any amount of additional air can be ad- mitted to dilute still further that which has passed through the inhaler and become charged with vapour. A pocket handkerchief folded and made into the form of a cone, as recommended by Dr. Simpson, IS an apparatus which is very convenient, and has "lent of being always ready; and a good sized hollow sponge is also equally convenient. This method of giving chloroform is, however, open to the objection, that the proportions of vapour and air which the patient breathes cannot be properly regulated; and the objection is still greater from the circumstance that those who advocate this mode of administering chloroform proceed on the supposition that there is no occasion to regulate the proportions of vapour and air ; that, in fact, it is only requisite to let the patient have sufficient ali- tor the purposes of respiration, and enough chloro- form to cause insensibility, and all will be right Ihe truth is, however, that if there be too much vapour ot chloroform in the air the patient breathes It may cause sudden death, even without previous insensibility, and whilst the blood in the lungs is of a florid colour. The table in the earlier part of this article shows that the air is capable of taking up a much greater quantity of vapour of chloro- lorra at ordinary temperatures than it would be safe to inhale ; and although the air does not eet quite saturated with vapour of chloroform in passhig over a hnndkerclnef, yet, on many occasions, so much vapour has become mixed with the air, as to frt?s';^pS? ^^'"--""^ P--'^ -ning Whenever chloroform is administered from a handkerchief or sponge, it should be diluted with one or two parts hy measure of spirits of wine ^ h Inndk XV -'^^convenire of tlie Handkerchief or sponge can be taken advantai^a of without the danger. Very little of "he Z tis .n aled as the greater part remains behini afte tno chloroform has evaporated ; hut it acts by owering the elastic force of the vapour of chloro- form, and diminishing the amount of vapour which >8 given off from tho handkerchief or sponge iust as diluting a strong solution of ammonia with ad-