I 37(> CANCER it maj' be said positively that they are accidental, and involve no special modification of structure or quality. These are the melanoid and hematoid conditions, which will be hereafter noticed as varie- ties. Villous cancer is ranked by Rokitansky as a variety of encephaloid, but Mr. Paget states that either scirrhus, encephaloid, or epithelial may observe this mode of growth. Osteoid cancer seems to be essentially an ossification of a medul- lary or fibrous cancer, the change taking place to a greater or less extent, or an osteophyte produc- tion shooting from a normal bone into a medullary growth attached to its surface. These are the principal varieties of cancer which the student may expect to find, and, with regard to a great number of trivial names which have been invented to describe the appearance of certain tumors, there is no advantage in burdening the memory with them. One of these, the term apinoid, is, however, of some use, as expressing a real difference in the condition of the cancer ; it corresponds to Muller's variety of carcin. reticu- lare. The G. fasciculaium of Rokitansky in its structure appears to have much resemblance to a fibrous tumor, and so far may be considered with the recurring fibroid tumor of Mr. Paget, as belong- ing to groups of somewhat indeterminate character, standing in a debatable ground between common innocent fibrous tumor and scirrhus with pre- dominance of fibrous tissue. Cystic cancer implies the development of cysts in a cancerous mass, usually encephaloid or colloid. Cancer possesses in an eminent degree the power of independent groivth. This is remarkably dis- pla}'ed in some cases of encephaloid, where the new formation continues to grow luxuriantly and attain a prodigious size, while all the other tissues are shrinking and wasting. The morbid mass, by its superior assimilative power, drains the vital fluid well nigh to its last drop, and so destroys life by exhaustion. One can hardly wonder that some who were impressed with this remarkable quality of cancer should have imagined that it was a parasitic animal, an hydatid. The power of reproduction after extirpation is another most re- markable feature of cancer, and to this is due, in great measure, its deadly character. This shows that the cause of cancer, whatever it be, must be deep rooted in the vital endowment of the system. From these general observations we now proceed to a particular account of the species and varieties of cancer.] Scirrhus. [A tumor of this kind, appearing in the female breast, is of extreme hardness, heavj', and rigid. Hence it has been called stone cancer. Its size is not often great, in most cases not equalling the part of the gland which it involves. Its shape depends, according to Mr. Paget, cliiefly on that of the part which it affects: it is sometimes irregular, with projecting processes. The margin is generally well defined ; but it has no investing capsule, it is not encysted. The surrounding tissues are contracted, and drawn in towards it: in an advanced case the skin or nipple is retracted, and the superficial fibres "1 the pcctoralis major elevated to the mass. Ra- diating wliite lines are sometimes seen extending outwards from the cancer ; these seem to be more oltcn merely bands of condensed fibrous tiisue than contmuations of the morbid growth. Its cut surface IS nearly utnform, of a pale greyish or bluish grey colour, with a certain glossiness and appearance of translucency. This ground, as it may be called, of the proper cancer substance, is often streaked or spotted by yellowish or dead white marks, which are either the remains of involved gland ducts or the results of fatty degeneration. Microscopic ex- aramation of such a cancer shows an abundant cell- growth traversed by fibres. The latter, according to Rokitansky, are of new formation, like the cells, and constitute a kind of skeleton, somewhat like that of a sponge, in which the cells are lodged. To the aggregate of these fibres the term stroma is commonly applied. Mr. Paget, on the other hand, thinks this view incorrect, and believes " that in the large majority of cancers of the breast, the only stroma, the only substance that would remain after removing all that is cancerous, would be the struc- ture of the breast itself." He states, among other arguments which determine him to this view, that when scirrhus occurs in organs possessing little or no fibrous tissue it is itself as destitute. Our own experience does not confirm this statement, but rather supports the common opinion. In fact, we think Rokitansky is not far from the truth when he says, speaking of the cells and stroma of cancer generally, " the relative proportional amounts of these two constituents vary extraordinarily ; pre- ponderance of stroma with fibrous trabeculte con- stitutes the so-called fibrous cancer; preponder- ance of cancer (cell) mass, according to its quality, makes the growth a medullarj^ or a colloid. The following case, which I recently observed in the practice of my friend Mr. Winchester, seems con- clusive :—Mrs. W., set. 51, of robust make, and having generally had excellent health, died with copious effusion into the right pleura. She first noticed a tumor in her right breast about two years before her death. It grew at first slowly ; but after sixteen months, when the catamenia ceased, it enlarged rapidly. When I saw it, the breast was much enlarged, with brawny thickening of the skin in and around it, extending to the axilla, and to the arm, and some way down the side. The arm was much swollen. Some time before death, a tumor was observed at the outer part of the left mamma. At the post mortem examination there was found extensive cancerous deposit on the right pleura, and some also in the right lung ; the pleural formation exhibited well marked cancer nuclei, multiform cells, also with endogenous development, all im- bedded in a fibroid stroma. The tumor in the right mamma was a large, very ill defined, mass, whity-groy, semi-transliiccnt, and exceedingly firm. Its deeper part was more dense than the super- ficial, and adhered closely to the pectoralis major, which formed a thin pale layer, closely attached to the ribs. In structure it consisted of a solid homo- geneo-granular blastema, passing more or less completely into fibroid stuff. Not a corpuscle was to be seen in it characteristic of cancer ; but acetic acid brought into view a great number of ordinary looking nuclei, elongated for the most part, and often appearing to be developing fibres, like nucleus fibres of Henle, which included mesh-like spaces. The tumor in the left breast was perfectly circum- scribed, at one part, at least ; its structure was essentially the same as that in the right. It seems to me impossible to have n more perfect instance of fibrous cancer than this.