Except this form of sloughing ulceration, no- followed by sloughing, wliich, in a few instances, became extensive Many of the surgeons referred this to the presence of what they called a " si- rocco," a remarkably dry wind from the south- east, which probably attains its peculiar dr3'nes3 in a similar manner to the Sirocco of Malta, or the L'Este of Madeira, by passing over sand deserts. This occasionally prevailed, and du- ring its continuance, some assert that a great tendency to this unhealthy action always ex- isted. Others, again, having noticed that similar cases occurred when this wind was not blowing, refuse to receive its prevalence as an explanation of the phenomenon. The state of the sore here referred to, was usually either immediately pre- ceded, or accompanied by slight febrile disturbance of the system, a slightly furred tongue, and a sense of malaise, with slight thirst, and some ner- vous irritabilit}', and a disordered state of the bowels, generally costive, but sometimes diarrhoeal. The granulating surface lost its florid, healthy look, and became pale; the pus secreted, was thin, and often- had a slightly foetid odour; the granu- lations became absorbed, and the wound then looked very considerably larger than before. In a wound thus affected, any ragged portion of tissue frequently died, and became converted into a slough, apparently without previous inflammation, and the wound slowly extended as if by ulcerative ab- sorption. It very rarely led to a fatal termination, and rarely induced secondary hcemorrhage. The application of strong acids was very seldom required to check the progress of the disease. Washing the wound with a strong lotion of Burnett's liquid, or of the solution of chlorinated soda, and the application of charcoal poultices were the topical means usually resorted to, with the exhibition of a mild saline purgative, if constipation existed, or a dose or two of hydrargyrum c. creta, with some rhubarb or castor oil, and perhaps an opiate, if diarrhoea were present. The exhibition of chlorate of potash, in doses from five to ten grains, three times a day, was thought by some to have a bene- ficial influence, but this was considered doubtful by others. Those who attributed it to the wind already .alluded to, thought the diseased action subsided shortly after its cause, but in most cases it disappeared in from seven to ten days under any mode of treatment, and indeed no mode appeared to have any special influence upon its continuance In the healing of large shell Incerations (in which this affection usually appeared) a recurrence of it often took place two or three times during the cure. It appeared to be certainly neither contagious nor infectious, although, as a matter of precaution, wounds in this state were segregated; and although at first it was looked upon with some dread, it was soon found to be of little consequence in the generality of cases, and where ventilation and cleanliness were attended to, beyond retarding the cure. It thus appeared at the Castle hospital, and in most of the regimental hospitals; but a some what more intense form of this same disease ap peared after the 8th September, in the general hospital in the camp, and in a few of the regi mental hospitals; and a few cases occurred where, by this process, bones were bared to some extent, and became necrosed in consequence, and occa- sionally, but still more rarely, vessels of some magnitude gave way, causing secondary hfemor- rhage. HOSPITAL GANGHENE. 1017 thing at .all resembling hospital gangrene was at any time seen among the wounded in the Crimea. The ne.arest approach to it was in a case detailed :unong wounds of the scalp {Harlivright, p. 287); but even this was more probably of the na- ture above described. In the spring months of 1855, a bad form of phageda;nic sloughing occurred the 79th Regiment, which, at the same time, was suffering from t3'phu3 fever, maculated and contagious. Here the phagedasna also .appeared to be contagious, and had many wounded existed at the time in the regiment they would have fared but badly. They were, however, few in number, .and consequently in only one case of gunshot wound did the dise.ase prove fatal. It attacked every variety of wound indiscriminately, from a cut finger to an open bubo, and several deaths were due to its agency. Strong nitric acid appeared to check the dise.ase, but repeated applications were often required. The surgeon attributed both it and the fever in great measure to the locality in which the corps was encamped, which was a clay soil full of springs, and which did not admit of being thoroughly drained; but strategic reasons forbade the removal of the regiment."] Hospital Gangrene in Civil Peactice. [The following account of hospital gangrene, as it appeared in University College Hospital, in the year 1841, is given by Mr. Listen, in a lecture. {Lancet, 1845, vol. i. p. 57.) The case he men- tions followed the remov.al of some metacarpal bones and fingers. " All at once the stump, which had been healing kindly, assumed a carious appearance. It became enormously swollen within a few hours, and profuse hasmorrhage took place, which there w.as consider.able difficulty in stopping. This might have been, and was sure enough by some who saw it, taken for malign.ant disease; but it was exactly like what I had seen before in Tin- healthy seasons, and in badly-regulated hospitals. The seiison was a very severe one; there had been a great snow-storm, with very cold weather of long duration. Not many d.ays passed over before a number of wounds assumed the same appearance. The parts got puffy round about them, the dis- charge became slimy and tenacious, very putrid, and bloody fffitid gas filled the cellular tissue arou)id. them. Tliey extended r.apidlj^ presenting a circu- lar form. Many patients lost a considerable quantity of blood; in fact, we were visited by a rather rare disease, hospital gangrene, one which I trust I may never see again. Luckily, out of a great many patients that were so attacked, and in all parts of the hospital almost simultaneously, not one pe- rished. Many of the wounds and ulcers were frightfully extended, but they speedily got clean, and healed soon after very kindly. . . . After the separation of the sloughs, a circular, cle.an, granulating surface was left. We were at a loss to account for this invasion. There was nothing as regarded the hospital, its ventilation, or drainage, or management, the dressing of sores, &c. that could be bl.amed. The disease came upon us sud- denly, .and as suddenly disappeared; and I need not tell you that wo have seen nothing of the kind since." Mr. South, in his notes to his translation oWhe- lius's System of Surgivy, says : " My friend_Arnott informs me that in January, 1835, in one" of the