11-2 AMPUTATION. bone out of the joint, Klein made a broad flap six inches long at the inner and upper part of the thigh, and then he cut the soft parts straight across just below the great trochanter, so as to make this wound meet the termination of the inci- sion, by which the inner flap was formed. This patient got perfectly well in three weeks (op. cit. p. 39); and so did another very similar case, ope- rated upon by the same gentleman (p. 43). Where the bleediug is considerable, the femoral artery and profunda should be tied previously to sawing the bone; but, if the vessels are well commanded by the pressure, the sawing ought to be first com- pleted. , In the middle of the thigh, Lisfranc preferred amputating with two lateral flaps; pressure was made on the femoral artery as it passed over the brim of the pelvis; and the vessel is tied immedi- ately the inner flap is formed. Lisfranc made the flaps with a long, narrow, two-edged knife, which was introduced through the limb on each side, and then cut obliquely outward and downward with it; but I think Mr. Synie is right in recommending the knife used by Mr. Liston, and the back of ■which is thin and blunt, except for an inch from the point. {Ed. Med. Surg.Journ. vol. xiv. p. 37.) Mr. Hey likewise preferred a knife with a blunt back, lest the vessels should be cut with it in a way that would render the securing of them troublesome. . , c . [Mr. Luke adopts the plan of cutting the first flap by transfixion, and the second from the skm tovvards the bone. In this way the two flaps may be made exactly equal in size, and the edge of the second may without difficulty be cut as evenly as that of the first. '• The operator, whether intending to remove either the right or the left limb, stands on the right side of the patient. He places the left hand on the thigh, above the part to be ope- rated on, then takes a profile view of the limb, and inserts the amputating knife midway between its anterior and posterior surface. It is passed quickly transversely to the opposite side of the limb, and, bv being inclined neither backwards nor forwards, is made to emerge at a point corresponding to that at which the instrument was passed m. 1 he knite is then carried downwards and forwards, so as to make the lower flap, which, in consequence of its havin- been formed during the tension of the in- tegum^ents, is perfectly even. The upper flap is th^en proc'eeded'with, and is formed m a reve e mannir to the lower. The knife .s swept round the integument, commencing % *° the point of emergence of the knife in the first steps of the formation of the lower flap, and ter- minating a little in front of the point of entrance the incision corresponding in form and length to the incision of the skin in the lower flap, iwo sweeps of the knife obliquely backwards are suffi- cient to divide the subcutaneous muscles. The lower and upper flaps are thus made, and the ope- ration is finislied in the ordinary manner. The two flaps being thus equal in length, and having their bases equal and their borders even, can be ap nlied easily to each other without any undue trac tion On the cessation of hemorrliage, they an broneht together by sutures, and supported by n comDrcss above and below, maintained in posi- tion braew strips of plaster, and a turn or two f " roller The application of the compresses is -f mal e of considerable importance, the object in their use being to apply a sufficient amount of sup- port to keep the whole of the opposed surfaces of the flaps in mutual contact. With this object in view, their size should be so regulated as to be ap- plied over the entire surface of each flap, but not on the extremity of the bone in the angle between the flaps." Mr. Luke attributes the favourable result that has attended his amputations in a great mea- sure to the careful application of the compresses. Primary adhesion of the two flaps has frequently taken place throughout their entire extent; and, in most instances, this has been the case to a greater or lesser degree. (See Ward, in Med. Times and Gaz. Jan. 1852.)] Amputation at the Hip-Joint. The very idea of this formidable operation, for a long while checked the hand even of the most ready°advocate for the use of the amputating knife, and every mind shuddered at so extensive a muti- lation. Still, it could not be denied, that the chance of saving life occasionally depended upon a submission to the greatest temporary suffering, and that, without the most cruel of sacrifices, the preservation of the patient was totally impossible. Dreadful as amputation at the hip appeared, both in respect to the magnitude of the part of the body to be removed, and the extent of the wound caused by such removal, the desperate nature of some cases at length began to incline surgeons to view more dispassionately a scheme, at which the mind at first naturally revolted. Morand is the earliest prac- titioner who made this severe operation the sub- ject of attention. {Opuscules de Chir. t. i. p. 176, 8vo.) In 1739, two essays on the same topic wei^ communicated to the Royal Academy of Surgery at Paris, by two of his pupils, Volner and Puthod. In 1743, Ravaton wished to have per- formed amputation at the hip-joint for a gunshot fracture of the trochanter major and neck of the thigh-bone, but was prevented by the opposition of other surgeons. {Clih: d'Arm. p. 323, &c.) In 1748 the propriety of attempting the operation was urged by L'Alouette. {Disp. Chir. Hallen t V p. 265.) At length, the Royal Academy of Sur<Tery at Paris thought the subject highly de- serving of further investigation. In 1756, they therefore proposed the following question as the grand prize subject: /« the case, in ^vhieh ampti- talion of the hip-joint should appnir to be the only resource for saviu(/ the patient's hje, to dHcrmina whether this operation ouyhl to he practised, ami rvhat rvoidd he the hest way of performing it? No satisfactory memoirs having been presented the same subject was proposed again in 1 (59. 1 he ap- nrobalioii of the Academy was now conferred on a paper written by Barbet, in which the propriety of amputating at the hip-joint was defended, and some of the cases demanding the operation spccihed. If for instance, a cannon-ball, or any other violently contusing cause, had earned oft or crushed the thigh, so as to leave only a few par to be cut to make the separation complete, he thought a surgeon ought not to hesitate about doing it The saine author conceived that a sphacelu extending to the circumference of the .lomt, and destroying the greatest part of the B"rromK ing Je^ might also render the oP^/ation equa ly nece.ssary and easy (SeeSahalier, Mai. Opcr. t. u. p. N &c ) Case were also adduced, whore the snrg on fomplct^d the separation of the dead parts with a