ANEURISM. 160 carefully inspected, it appeared to have been formed by the left branch of the hepatic artery having become very much enlarged and aneu- rismal. Tt had burst, and the blood which had escaped was found in an imperfect cyst, partly in a fluid, and partly in a coagulated state, forming a large proportion of the tumor." (See Lecbires on the Blood, and on the Anatomy, Pliysiology, and Surgical Pathology of the Vascular System, p. 379, 380, 8vo. Loud. 1819.) The facts adduced by Mr. Hodgson appear sufficiently conclusive, and from them the follow- ing doctrine is clearly deducible : — First, That numerous aneurisms are formed by destruction of the internal and middle coats of an artery, and the expansion of the external coat into a small cyst, which giving way from disten- tion, the surrounding parts, whatever may be their structure, form the remainder of the sac. Secondly, That sometimes the disease com- mences in the dilatation of a portion of the cir- cumference of an artery. This dilatation in- creases until the coats of the vessel give way, when the surrounding parts form the sac, in the same manner as when the disease is in the first instance produced by destruction of the coats of an artery. (P. 74.) The conclusions of Mr. Hodgson are supported by the observations of numerous writers. The learned Sabatier says, there can be no doubt, that many aneurisms depend upon the di- latation of the arterial coats : but, in far more nu- merous examples, the internal tunics are ruptured, and it is the cellular coat alone tvhich separates from them, and enlarges, so as to form the aneu- risrnal sac. It is difficult to conceive, he observes, how all the coats of an artery can dilate and yield suffi- ciently to form the investment of such immense tumors as some aneurisms are. Indeed, that very tunic, which composes the greater part of the thickness of the vessel, and which is termed the muscular coat, is known to consist of fibres whose texture is firm, and little capab'e of bearing exten- sion. However, Haller, in describing a very large aneurism, situated in the aorta, near the heart, relates, that the innermost coat of this vessel was ruptured and torn, the loose jigged edges of the laceration being visible in the aneurismal sac. These were squamous, bony, and of liitle thick- ness; while the muscular and cellular coats were quite sound. D(mald M(mro noticed the same thing in five ditterent aneurisms; in the course of the t'emoriil and popliteal arteries of a man, who had been confined a long while to his bed, after being operated upon for bubonocele. Monro suc- ceeded in tracing the fibres of the muscular coat over the swellings, so that he had no doubt of this tunic being dilated. According to Richerand, when an aneurism is recent and of small size, the dissection of the tumor exhibits a simple dilatation of the arterial coats ; while, in the other cases, where the aneu- rism is large, and has existed a considerable time, the internal and middle coats of the vessel are in- variably lacerated. In the early stage of the dis- ease, the blood which fills the aneurismal sac is fluid ; and, on the contrary, in cases where the internal tunics of the artery arc ruptured, the sac contains more or less coagulated lymph. The ex- ternal or cellular coat composes the greater part of the cyst; and the coagulated Ijnnpb, with which it is filled, is arranged in layers, the density of which is described as being greater in proportion to the length of time v/hich they have been de- posited. Such as are nearest the sac are, therefore, most compact, and contain the smallest quantity of the colouring matter of the blood; more deeply, the concretions of lymph resemble simple coagula; and, lastly, the blood, which is still nearer the arterial tube, retains its fluiditj'. After the aneurismal sac has been cleansed from the fibrine and coagulated blood which it contains, its parietes will appear to be almost en- tirely formed of the cellular coat of the artery. Towards the bottom may be observed the aper- ture, arising from the laceration of the internal and middle coats, which, being much less elastic than the external, are ruptured in an early stage of the disease. It is when these two tunics give way, that the aneurismal tumor undergoes a sudden and considerable increase in its size ; for then the cellular coat alone has to sustain all the pressure of the blood, which, now becoming effused iuto a more ample cyst, loses a great deal of its impetus, coagulates, and forms fibrous masses; circum- stances to which may be ascribed the hardness of the swelling, the weakness of its pulsation, &c. {Nos. Chir. t. iv. p. 82, ed. 2.) The reality of true internal aneurisms was in- sisted upon by C. F. Ludwig, in a programma written expressly on that subject. {Diagnostiees Chir. Fragm. de Aneurysmate Interna, Lips. 1805.) An interesting case, exemplifying an aneurismal dilatation of all the coats of the abdominal aorta, was published by Professor Nsegele of Heidelberg. The swelling was as large as a man's head, and weighed about five pounds. The aorta began to be dilated at the point where it passes into the cavity of the abdomen between the crura of the diaphragm. This dilatation extended gradually down to a point, about four finger-breadths from the bifurcation of the aorta into the iliac arteries, at which point, strictly speaking, the large aneu- rismal sac commenced. The length of the whole dilated part of the vessel was eleven inches ; that of the sac six ; and its diameter five inches. The artery was not equally dilated in every direction, the expansion being most considerable laterally and forwards. Nsegele and Ackermann found that the three coats of the aorta, the internal, nms- cular, and cellular, were all equally dilated. These professors traced the muscular coat witii the scalpel from the top to the bottom of the tumor, and not the slightest doubt could be enter tained that the case was a true aneurism. {F. C. Noeyde, Epistola ad T. F. Bullz, qua Hisioria et Descriptio Ati'urysmatis, quod in Aorta abdominali observavit, coidinetur. Heidelb. 1816.) In the valuable cases collected by H. F. Janin, convincing evidence will be found of tht-re being one kind of aneurism attended with rupture of the coats of the artery, the cellular coat alone forming the aneurismal sac ; and another with an equal di- latation of ail the coats of the artery. Of the latter, Janin relates three unequivocal cases. Breschet's investigations, which are supported by the evidence of post mortem examinations, leave also no doiibt about the truth of aneurism by dilatation, of whicli he describes not less than four kinds, as already stated, viz. the aneurisma venim sacciforme; the aneurisma veruvi fusiforme ; the auenrisma vcrum