GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 823 tme as much as possible, in order that the weight a devious course in the region of the face, such as of the organ might assist in keeping it in its entering at the external meatus of the ear and ition passing out at the nose, or passing in at the trontal ^^Musket balls, and this observation refers more sinus and escaping by the mouth. {Hennen^s Mili- particularly to the spherical form, sometimes take tary Surgeyy.) Table showing the number and iresults of cases treated from the commencement to the end of the Crimean War. Commissioned Officers. Total treated. |toduty. Inva- lided. Penetrating or perforating the bony structui'es r slight I severe r one eye. >■ both eyes. 25 8 6 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 25 3 I 0 0 0 5 5 1 0 40 0 29 11 Table showing the number and results of cases treated from 1st of April 1855 to the end of the Crimean War. Non-commissioned Officers and Privates. DIED. >* Total treated In the primary or regimental hospitals. In the secondary hospitals. other diseases while under treatment. Total died. Discharged to di Invalided. Simple flesh contusions and (-slight wounds ■ . • '•severe Penetrating or perforating the bony structure r one eye With lesion of ... • \ j^oth eyes 274 108 107 42 2 0 1 9 3 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ] 10 3 0 267 96 58 24 0 7 11 39 15 2 533 13 1 0 14 445 74 Trealmeiit.—Fo-c restraining the hajmorrliage, which is often a matter of much moment and con- siderable difficulty, styptic applications or plugs of lint pressed into the wound are necessary. Per- chloride of iron, tincture of raatico, and acetate of lead, have all been found useful, or lumps of ice placed in the wound. As a last resource, when these means and pressure have failed, the external carotid artery may be required to bo ligatured for wounds of one or more of its branches, lor it is seldom in deep wounds that you can get at the bleeding vessel or vessels themselves. To diminish the swelling and inflammation fol- lowing upon wounds of the tongue, it will be necessary to apply leeches, or scarify, or make incisions, and to freely administer antinionials and mercury. For adjustment of the soft parts in these wounds of the face, especially after shell injuries, the use of sutures is found very beneficial. " In fractures of the bones of the face from gunshot, we make an exception to the general rule of removing fragments which are nearly de- tached. The large supply of blood which is sent to every structure in this region, enables pieces of bone to resume their full connection with the other tissues, when detached, in a way that would be fatal to similarly placed portions in other parts. Hence the rule, not to extract any spicula whose attachment has not been completely destroj'ed, and whose direction is not opposed to a proper union of the broken parts. The exfoliation which follows in injuries of the bones of the face, is slight as compared with those of other parts." (iMaclcod, Surgery of lite Crimean War, p. 222.) In wounds of the eyelid and its appendages, great care is necessary for the nice adjustment of the divided portions; the use of fine sutures for this purpose is fibsolutely necessary.] Gunshot Wounds of the Nkck. [Superficial wounds of this region do not differ from the corresponding injuries inflicted on other parts of the body, and require no particular descrip- tion or peculiar treatment. When the deeper and more important structures are implicated in the injury, we usually have them followed by restless- ness, cough, oppressed breathing, nausea, great irritability of the stomach, and sundry nervous attcctions, the consequence of injury to the commu- nicating nervous distributions so aliundant in this situation. (Hi'n7icn's Military Surgery, edition 3, p. 3C1.) In no wounds are there more remarkable escapes for the main blood-vessels than in injuries occurring in this region. Muskct-balls I'rcquently traverse cloeo to the vessels, even between the artery and vein without wounding either. A ease of this kind came under my notice in the campaign before Sebastopol, where a full sized Minie' bullet passed between the subclavian artery and vein, separating 3 0 4