170 ANEURISM. cular ligature ulcerates tbe artery in general about the third day after the operation; and tlie adhe- sive inflammation does not always complete its course in this period of time. During this delay of the adhesive inflammation, the ulcerative pro- cess, occasioned by the pressure of the ligature, attacl\S more quickly even than surgeons generally suppose, the external cellular sheatli of the artery, and penetrates into the cavity of the yet pervious vessel; and this, of course, with increased quick- ness, when the inner coats of the artery are already divided by the ligature. The dangers of non-adhesion and too rapid lUceration of the artery, Scarpa thinks, are placed at the greatest distance by preserving undivided all the three coats of the vessel under the pressure of the ligature; and hence his partiality to larger liga- tures than are now used by the best surgeons in England, and to the interposition of a cylinder of linen between the knot and the vessel, as recommended by Pare, Heister, and Platner. If, however, he has had reason to suspect that a simple circular ligature has frequently failed in England, because other innovations have been occasionally substituted for it, and because ive sJiould not have sought for a letter, if u-e had already had the best, how much more vulnerable is his own practice on a similar principle; since, generally speaking, it has not retained half so many approvers as they who still express their preference to other methods, and more especially to the use of a single ligature, uncomplicated with other extraneous substances ! Is it probable, he asks, that the single circular ligature, which was formerly used with doubtful success by the greatest surgeons, should now have become, as is pre- tended, the most certain means of preventing se- condary hemorrhage ? " It is now wished (says he) to ascribe the failures of Mr. Hunter, and of many other operators, not to the circular ligature, but to the improper treatment of the wound in ge- neral, and in particular to the introduction into it of lint, and, more especially, to the irritation oc- casioned by the ligature of reserve." On the con- trary, it is argued by Scarpa, that, though Mr. Hunter, after his first trial, simplified the local treatment, though all skilful surgeons merely co- vered the wound with a pledget of soft ointment, and most of them omitted the reserve-ligature, yet, notwithstanding these reforms, secondary he- morrhage, after the use of a simple circular liga- ture, was not rendered less frequent. {On Aneurism p. 23, ed. 2.) With respect to the latter general assertion, its incorrectness may be learned by re- ference to the details of Mr. Plunter's own ope- rations, and by going into the principal hospitals of this metropolis, where the use of a simple cir- cular ligature for the cure of aneurisms rarely fails, so far as secondary hemorrhage is concerned. Why then did the operation more frequently fail here in former times ? The answer is plain : the kind of ligature now employed in England can- not be compared to what was used in Mr. Hunter's time, or even to what was here in fashion forty years ago. And, besides the universal re- jection of ligatures of reserve, practitioners now have a more thorough comprehension of what ought to be avoided in the operation, have a just fear of separating and disturbing tiie artery too much, know how to appreciate the advantage of closing the wound, and attach due importance to the choice of smaller or more eligible ligatures. (See Heimoiirhage and Ligature.) When, therefore, Scarpa supposed, that in England the practice with the circular ligature in the treatment of aneurism is materially the same now as here- tofore, and that secondary hemorrhage is as fre- quent, he did not avail himself of .all the informa- tion on the subject which he might have acquired from Mr. Wishart, the able translator of his writings on aneiirism, or from an attentive perusal of Mr. Hodgson's valuable treatise. In an equality of circumstances, conducive to the success of the Hunterian operation, Scarpa thinks that the fact is not proved, as it is presumed to be, that the rupture of the internal and middle coats of the artery does excite the adhesive inflam- mation and union of the artery more effectually, than is done by the simple compression and close contact of its two opposite internal parietes in a sound and uninjured state. This remark is partly true, and partly incorrect, at the same time that it involves a question, which must be deferred till we come to the article Hemorrhage. The truth in the observation is, that an artery may generallj"- be rendered impervious with tolerable certainty, by compressing its opposite parietes steadily and firmly together for a certain time, without dividing its inner coats : the inaccuracy of it depends upon tlie fact, that surgeons have no instrument, nor contrivance (not excepting even the ligature of four or six threads, with the interposition of the cylinder of linen spread with ointment), which can retain the opposed undivided surfaces of the inner coats of the vessels closely together in the manner commended by Scarpa, and for the due time, with- out the objection of denuding more of the artery than need be done in the application of a small ligature ; or without the serious inconvenience and risk necessarily attending the introduction of a larger quantity of extraneous matter into the wound than is desirable, with the view of averting all chance of the ulceration of the artery reaching be- yond prudent limits. And, when metallic instru- ments are used for the same purpose, objections not less real are incurred, as will be hereafter more particularly explained. Scarpa considers that his mode of ligature ought to be preferred, as combining the triple advantage of preserving entire all the three coats of the artery ; of exciting quickly, and in a proper de- gree, the adhesive inflammation in them ; and of retarding, as much as possible, the ulcerative pro- cess of the arterial tube. Partly impressed, however, with tlie truth of the tenets laid down by Dr. Jones (see Hemor- ' rhage), Scarpa enjoins attention to the following rules :—1. Not to insulate and detach the artery any further than is necessary for allotinng a ligature to be passed around it. 2. Not to let the cylinder of linen exceed a line in length, or a little more above and below the breadth of the tape, which is about a line for the large arteries of the extremities. 3. That the ligature be not too tight. 4. And thai it bo never apjilied immediately below the origin of a large lateral branch. (See Hcarjm, On Aneurism, p. 44, ed. 2.) Some further consideration of Scarpa s mode ot applving the ligature will be introduced in the article Hbmorr/iage ; and I now proceed to notice his sentiments concerning the advantage which may be derived from removing the ligature