156 ANEURISM. Males.lFemales. 1 Of the ascending aorta, the arteria imiominata, and arch of the aorta 21 16 5 Descending aorta - 8 7 1 Carotid artery 2 2 0 Siinrlavinu nnH nvillnvi' - 5 e o u Inguinal artery- 12 12 0 Femoral and popliteal 15 14 1 63 50 7 This table does not inchide aneurisms arising from wounded arteries, nor aneurisms by ana- stomosis. (^Oii the Diseases of Arteries and Veins, p. 87.) Sir Astley Cooper confirms the fact of the much greater frequency of aneurism in the male than the female sex. Women, he says, rarely have aneurism in the limbs. In forty years' experience, he has seen only eight cases of pop- liteal aneurism in women, but an immense number in men. Most of the aneurisms, which he has seen in females, have been in the ascending aorta, or the carotids. {Lectures, vol. ii. p. 41.) Mr. Guthrie has met with but three popliteal aneurisms in women ; and he calculates that aneurism of the ham occurs from twenty to thirty tinres in men for once in women. " The structure of the vessels (he observes) is the same, but the mode of life is different. The exertion in general is infinitely greater in the man than the woman; and I think this, combined with the freer use of ardent spirits, a much more likely cause than either syphilis or mercury." {On Dis. of Arteries, p. 87.) In relation to the comparative frequency of aneurism in the two sexes, M. Lisfranc states, that in 154 cases, the particulars of which have been collected by him, and whose situations brought them within the reach of operative surgery, the proportion of male patients was 141; of females 13; or nearly as 11 to 1. [Crisp states, that of 551 aneurisms of all kinds, seven-eighths occurred in men. It is interesting to observe, however, tliat this proportion does not liold good for all aneurisms. Thus, those of the carotid are as frequent in women as in men, whilst of all other aneurisms, there are 18 in men to 1 in women. Dissecting aneurisms are more frequent in women,] With respect to the comparative frequency of aneurism in different arteries, M. Lisfranc refers to 179 cases, all spontaneous, those of the aorta not entering into the computation; from which 179 cases he gives the following table : — 1. Popliteal artery - - - 59 2. Femoral [ ^''f g^'oi" " - 26 C at other points - 18 3. Carotid - - - , - 17 4. Subclavian - - . - 16 5. Axillary - - - - 14 6. External iliac - - . 5 7. Brachio-ccphalic - - - 4 8. Brachial - - - - 3 9. Common iliac - - - 3 10. Anterior tibial - - - 3 11. Gluteal 2 12. Internal iliac - - - - 2 13. Temporal - ... 2 14. Internal carotid - - - 1 15. Ulnar ] 16. Peroneal - - - - - 1 17. Radial 1 18. Palmar arch - - - - 1 It was observed by Morgagni, and it has been noticed in this country, that popliteal aneurisms occur with particular frequency in postilions and coachmen, whose employments oblige them to sit a good deal with their knees bent. In France, the men who clean out dissecting-rooms and procure dead bodies for anatomists, are said almost all of them to die of aneurismal diseases. Richerand remarks, that he never knew any of these persons who were not addicted to drinking. {Nosogr. Chir. t. iv. p. 74, ed. 2.) Aneurisms are supposed by M. Roux to be much more frequent in England than in France; a cir- cumstance which he refers to the mode of life and kind of labour, to which a large part of the popula- tion of England is subjected. Indeed, he connects this surmise with a reason for the very cultivated state of this part of knowledge in England; thinks that we have been placed in favoui'able circum- stances for perfecting the treatment of aneurisms; and acknowledges, that we have contributed more than his countrymen, both in the last and present century, to the improvement of this branch of sur- gery. {Roux, Parallele de la Chirurgie Avgloise uvea la C/iirurgie Fran^oise, S(C. p. 249.) In some instances, axillary aneurisms seem to have arisen from violent extension^ of the limb. (See Pelletan, Clinique Chir. t. ii. p. 49, and 83.) In other examples, related by the same practical writer, aneurism arose from reiterated contusions and rough pressure on parts. (Op. cit. p. 10, and 14. Also Guthrie, On Dis. of Arteries.) The extremity of a fractured bone may injure an arterjr, and give rise to an aneurism; instances of which are recorded by Pelletan (Op. cit. t. i. p. 178), and Duverney '{Traite des Mai. des Os, t. 1). In Pelletan's case, the disease followed a fracture of the lower third of the leg. An aneu- rism of the anterior tibial artery, from such a cause, is also described by Mr. C. White. {Cases in Surgery, p. 141.) The following case of an aneurism of the hu- meral artery after amputation, is recorded by Warner:—C. D. was afflicted with a caries of the joint of the elbow, which was attended with cir- cumstances rendering amputation necessary. The operation was performed at a proper distance above the diseased part, and the vessels were taken up with needles and ligatures.— In a few days, the humeral artery became so dilated above the liga- ture upon it, as to be in danger of bursting. Hence it was judged necessary to perform the operation for the aneurism, which was done, and the vessel secured by ligature, above the upper extremity of its distended coats. Every thing now went on for some time, exceedingly well; when suddenly the artery again dilated, and was in danger of bursting above the second ligature. These cir- cumstances made it necessary to repeat the oper- ation for the aneurism. From this time every thing went on successfulI3', till the stump was on the point of being healed ; when, quite un- expectedly, the artery appeared a third tiuie