JM M 4 eud of the humerus to which it moulds itself, and ascending an inch and a half above the end of the humerus. There are several perforations, or de- ficiencies in it, through which the humerus is per- ceptible. The coronoid process of the ulna, which is blunted, is lodged in the fossa behind tho hu- merus. " The case proves (says M. Cruveilhier), that, in the dislocation of the fore-arm from the the humerus backward, the displacement backward is limited by the coronoid process meeting with the olecranal fossa of the humerus -. that there must be a more or less considerable laceration of the brachialis muscle ; and that the tendon of the biceps must generally remain entire, and make a tense cord, constituting a limit to the displacement backwards. If the violence occasioning a dislocation backwards should be carried farther, not only may there be laceration of the brachialis, but also of the tendon of the biceps, the brachial artery, the veins, the median nerve, and even the skin, attended with protrusion of the bone. I have seen a case of this kind, in a lady who was thrown from her horse, and fell on the palm of her hand. When I arrived, a profuse hcemorrhage from the artery had just ceased, in consequence of syncope. The disloca- tion having been reduced, I kept myself ready to secure the artery, but the bleeding did not return." The case terminated favom-ably. (See CruveilMer, Anat. Pulhol. liv. ix. ch. iv. p. 8.) In a modern publication, an instance of a dis- location of the heads of the radius and ulna back- ward is related, where the lower end of the humerus protruded through the integuments, and, as it could not be reduced, it was sawn off. The patient, a boy, recovered the full use of his arm. {Evans, Pract. Obs. on Cataract, Compound Dislocations, ^c, p. 101, 1815.) LThe injury with which dislocation of the elbow is most likely to be confounded, is a fracture of the humerus, just above the elbow, or in young per- sons, a separation of its epiphysis from the shaft. Many of the symptoms mentioned, but especially the projection of the humerus anteriorly, and of the ulna posteriorly, are common to both cases. The fol- lowing diagnostic marks mentioned by IMalgaigne are worthy of attention. In the fracture, tlie cutaneous fold of the elbow is always below, or at the most, on a level with the projection of the humerus forwards. In dislocation, this cutaneous fold always ascends, and is situated above the pro- jection. In fracture, the epicondyle and the epitroclilea are behind the axis of the humerus ; in dislocation they are in aline with it. In fracture, they are at the same distance from the olecranon as on the sound side ; in dislocation the interval is necessarily augmented. Another sign of disloca- tion, which M. Malgaigne considers important, is to befniindintlie sharp internal margin of the trochlear surface of the humerus ; whicli may, ho says, al- most always be felt througli the integuments, at the anterior and inner part of the joint ; ho ims never met with swelling sufficient to prevent this ridge from being distinguisiicd, with the pro- minence of the epitrochlea situated at the normal distance above it. The following source of error in old dislocations is noticed by the same authority ; it happens, sometimes, that tho lymph effused under the tendon of the triceps acfiuires such a con- sistence, that it affords to the touch tho sensation of bone, and might induce the belief that the ole- cranon has preserved its normal relation to the LTJON. 63fi humerus: In illustration of this he relates the case of a young man, the subject of a disloca- tion of the elbow of two months and a half standing, who had consulted various surgeons, and had found them undecided in their opinion whether his injury was a dislocation or a fracture. There was no de- pression above the olecranon, although the promi- nent margin of the trochlea could be felt projecting anteriorly. The question was finally decided by Malgaigne, who inserted a needle through the tissues above the olecranon down to the humerus, the needle traversed without difficulty the thickened lymph, which had imposed upon the sense of touch, and thus showed to what extent the olecranon was really separated from the humerus in comparison with the soraid side.—Traiti. des Fract. t. ii, p. 582.] Incomplete dislocation hackwards.—[The incom- plete dislocation of the fore-arm backwards was described by J. L. Petit, but it does not appear to have been recognised by Sir A. Cooper, and its possibility is altogether denied by Boyer, who says that, if the siunmit of the coronoid process is not forced by the effort which causes the displacement beyond the transverse diameter of the articular pulley of the humerus, the latter, on account of the obliquity of its surfaces, will fall back into the sig- moid cavity of the ulna when the effort at displace- ment has ceased. {Mai. Chir. t. iv. p. 214.) The existence of an incomplete dislocation has, however, now been fully established by Malgaigne, who believes it to be even more common than the com- plete kind. The symptoms are very similar to those of the complete kind, the chief difference being in degree. Thus, the olecranon is prominent behind, and the humerus in front of, the joint, the antero-posterior diameter of which is therefore in- creased. The head of the radius is partially dis- placed backwards from the external condyle, the point of the coronoid process is sometimes situated beneath the trochlea, sometimes passes behind it altogether, so that as far as this bone is concerned, the dislocation may be really complete. The limb is not shortened, and the bones of the fore-arm are fixed against the humerus, and cannot be so readily moved in different directions as in the complete dislocation. The point of the olecranon is on a level with, or even a little ieweatfi,the humeral tuberosities, and the olecranon is not so dist,int from them pos- teriorly as in the complete dislocation ; but the principal distinctive mark is that only a portion oi the cup-shaped depression on the head of the radius can be felt with the finger behind the external condyle in the incomplete dislocation, whereas in tho complete tho whole of it can bo distinguished. (See Ma/gai(/ne, Traite dcs Fract. cj'c. vol. ii. p. 598.) Several cases of incomplete dislocation of the elbow have also been recorded by Dr. Stapleton. (See Dtddin Quart. Journ. vol. v. p. 181, 1849.)] liodnction of the dislocation of both bones of the fore- arm hackwards.—The following method of reduction is advised by Boyer :—Tho patient being seated,the surgeon, placing himself on the outside of the dis- located limb, is to place the four fingers of both hands in front of the elbow,and his two thumbs upon the prominence formed by tlio olecranon, so that he can conveniently make pressure in opposite direc- tions: upon the inferior extreuiily of the humerus to press it backwards, and upon the olecranon, to carry it forwards. Two assistants then take hold, one of the shoulder, and the other of the wrist,