HERNIA. 996 a radical cure by the mere employment of a com- pressive bandage." {Scarpa, Traiie. des Hernias, p. 344—349.) M. Girard published a Memoir on the Umbilical Hernia of Children, which was read to the Medical Society of Lyons, in May 1811; and the object of which was to recommend compression as an effec- tual means of cure. The arguments used were very similar to those adduced by Scarpa. In the course of the discussion, M. Cartier affirmed that he had seen many cliildren operated upon by Desault, who were not cured of their herniae. (See Journ. Gen. de Med. t. xli. 1811.) The sub- ject was afterwards taken up by the Medical So- ciety of Paris, and the result of the debate was, that the employment of the ligature ought to be rejected. 1. Because the cure of umbilical hernise is often accomplished by nature alone. 2. Be- cause compression, either alone, or aided by tonic remedies, always succeeds. 3. Because the opera- tion of the ligature deserves the triple reproach of being painful, and not free from danger, if unfor- tunately a piece of intestine should chance to be included in the ligature; of not succeeding in general, except with the assistance of compression; and of being sometimes uselessly practised, as Desault himself gives us instances of. According to M. Cayol, the insufficiency of the ligature was long since acknowledged by Sabatier, Lassus, Richerand, &c. The treatment by compression is universally preferred by British surgeons. Umbilical Hernia in Adult Subjects. This case is to be treated on the principles com- mon to all ruptures. When reducible, the parts should be kept up with a bandage or truss; which plan, however, in grown-up persons, affords no hope of a radical cure. Mr. Hey has described some very good trusses for the exomphalos, which are applicable to children, when compression is preferred, as well as to adult subjects. : When the exomphalos is irreducible and large, the tumor must be supported with bandages, or by a truss with a hollow pad. It is observed by Scarpa, that umbilical her- nia, and those of the linea alba, are less sub- ject to be strangulated than inguinal and femoral hernia; but that, when they are unfortunately affected with strangulation, the symptoms are more intense, and gangrene comes on more rapidly, than in every other species of rupture. If the opera- tion be performed, the event is frequently unfa- vourable, because it is generally done too late. This practical fact is proved by the experience of the most celebrated surgeons of every age. "/i' est certain (says Dionis) que de cette operation il en perit plus qiCil li'en recMppo." (Cotcrs d'Operaiions, p. 90, ed. 1777, avec les notes de La Fai/e.) He also adds, that they who have the misfortune to be afflicted with an exomphalos should rather dispense with their shirt than a bandage. Heister says nearly the same tiling. {Instil. Cliirury. t. ii. cap. 94.) When the omentum alone is strangulated in the exomphalos, or hernia of the linea alba, observa- tion proves that the symptoms are not less intense than when the intestine ia also incarcerated. There is this dilTcrence, however, that when the omentum alone is strangulated, only nausea occurs, and, if vomiting should likewise take place, it is less frequent and violent than when the bowel itself is strangulated. In the first case, the stools are hardly ever entirely suppressed. The proximity of the stomach is, no doubt, the reason why the strangulation of the omentum, in umbilical hernia, occasions far more intense symptoms of sympathetic irritation, than the strangulation of the same structure in inguinal, or crural hernia. Here, the operation is not only always necessar}', but urgently required. It is not materially dif- ferent from that which is practised for strangulated inguinal and crural hernia;; but in general it de- mands greater circumspection, on account of the connection, or intimate adhesions, which frequently exist between the integuments and hernial sac, and also the adhesions which often prevail between the latter part and the omentum which it contains. The situation of the intestine, which is frequently covered by, and enveloped in, the omentum^ is another circumstance deserving earnest attention. {Scarpa, Traiie des Hernies, pp. 361, 362.) Mr. Pott is not such an advocate as Scarpa for the early performance of the operation in cases of exomphalos;—"The umbilical, like the inguinal hernia, becomes the subject of chirurgic operation, when the parts are not reducible by the hand only, and are so bound as to produce bad symptoms. But though I have, in the inguinal and scrotal hernite, advised the early use of the knife, I cannot press it so much in this: the success of it is very rare, and I should make it the last remedy. In- deed, I am much inclined to believe that the bad symptoms which attend these cases are most fre- quently owing to disorders in the intestinal canal, and not so often to a stricture made on it at the navel, as is supposed. I do not say that the latter does not sometimes happen; it certainly does; but it is often believed to be the case when it is not _ "When the operation becomes necessary, it consists in dividing the skin and hernial sac, in such manner as shall set the intestine free from stricture, and enable the surgeon to return it into the abdomen." {Pott, On Ruptures.) The rest of the conduct of the surgeon is to be regulated by the usual principles. The division of the stricture is properly recom- mended to be made directly upward, in the course of the linea alba. In consequence of the great fatality of the usual operation for umbilical liernia, I think the plan suggested and successfully practised by Sir A. Cooper, in two instances, should always be adopted whenever the tumor is large, and free from gan- grene. It consists in making an incision just suffi- cient to divide the stricture, without opening the sac at all, or, at all events, no more of it than is in- evitable; a plan that has also received the higli sanction of that distinguished anatomist and sur- geon. Professor Scarpa. {Traiti. des ITcrnics, ^- 362.) Perhaps I miglit safely add, that when the parts admit of being reduced, without laying open the snc, this method should always be preferred. In umbilical hernia, of not a large size, Sir A. Cooper recommends the following plan of operat- i„g;_''As the opening into the abdomen is placed towards the upper part of the tumor, I began the incision a little below it, that is, at the nudd o ot the swelling, and extended it to Us lowest pait. a then made a second incision at the "PP"' Pf j,' the fust, and at right .n.gles with it, so llmt e double incision was in the form of tlie loltei i, i"<.