352 guigne, and then the probe-pointed bistoury used, or it may be divided at once, together with the external pterj'goid muscle, by means of the probe- pointed bistoury kept close to the highest part of the inner side of the condyle, so as to leave the internal maxillary artery safe at the inner side of the neck of the bone. A great deal of the safety of this operation will depend upon the edge of the knife being kept close to the inner surface of the bone, so that the lin- gual branch of the fifth nerve may be left unin- jured, and upon attention being paid to the direc- tions given for the disarticulation, which, after the insertion of the temporal muscle has been divided, is greatly facilitated by depressing the anterior part of the bone forcibly, and twisting the condyle it- self. The hsemorrhage will be chiefly from the facial, dental, and branches of tbe temporal and internal maxillary arteries. In the horrible operation of extirpating tlie whole of the lower jaw-bone, the incision should extend from a point, a few lines in front of the lobe of one ear, down the posterior edge of the ramus, along the whole base, from one angle to the other, and then up to a point, a few lines in front of the lobe of the other ear. Care having been taken to prevent retroversion of the tongue, and the front portion of the flap raised, the soft parts behind the symphysis should be cut, and the bone sawn in this situation. Then the rest of the vast flap is to be raised on each side, and each half of the bone to be removed according to the fore- going directions. For other observations connected with the exci- sion of bones, see Amputation; Caries; Joints, Excision of; Necrosis; and Stumps, On tlie subject of this operation, consult Dh^mj/- iren, Le?ons Orales de Clinique Cliir. t. iv. art. xv 8vo. Paris, 1834. W. Cusaclt, in Dub. Hospital Re ports, vol. iv. p. 1. Ph. Craniplon, vol. cit. p. 537 Jh. Gensoul, Sur quelques Maladies Graves du Sinus Maxillaire, &c. 8vo. Paris, 1833. Robert Lislon, Elements of Surgery, part ii. p. 223, Svo. Lond. 1831. J. F. Malgaignc, Man. de Med. Op^r. 12rao. Pans, 1834. A. L. M. Velpeau, Nouv. El(5m. de Mfed. Opfer. t. i. p. 537, Svo. Paris, 1832. G. Regnoli, Intorno I'Amputazione di Quasi la Meta della Mascella Infe riore Brevi Cenni. Svo. Pisa, 1834. Id. Dell' Ampu tazione di una Porzione di Mascella Inferiore per Kpulide Cancerosa ed Osteo-Sarcoma, Svo. Pesaro 1826. Chelins, System of Surg., translated by South London, 1S45. Nilaton, Elem. de Patbol. Chir. t. i Paris, 1844. BONES, PATHOLOGY OF. As a living texture, that of the bones is subject to many of the diseases which affect other parts endued with vitality, and in which the functions _ of circulation, innervation, absorption, and nutrition are continually going on. Thus it is liable to atrophy, hypertrophy, inflammation, suppuration a change resembling ulceration, and another like mortification of other parts. The nerves, it is said have never been demonstrated in the osseous tex ture; yet, if it be the seat of pain, our judgmen must infer the existence of what may not be dis ccrnible by tlie eye. M. Sanson very aptly com pares the organisation of bone to something between that of an organic and that of an inorganic body, its vitality being necessarily obscure, and corre spondeiit to its constituent elements. Tlie organi actions seem indeed to bo carried on in it, will greater diflicully, the more tlie earthy matter in i predominates over the animal part. Thus, BOUGIE. children, irritation, inflammation, and every action in the osseous texture are quicker, than in old per- sons ; because the bones in early life contain a greater proportion of animal matter than at a later period, when the phosphate of lime is more abundant. However, even in children, and still more conspicuously in adults and old persons, the diseases of the bones are generally marked by a slowness of character which has attracted the notice of all pathologists. Many weeks are required for the completion of a provisional callus, and nearly a twelvemonth for that of a definitive one; while^ a few days, and often a few hoiu's, will suffice for the union of the wound of the soft parts. In conse- quence also of the inferior, or inconsiderable con- nection of the bones with the nervous system, they frequently appear to inflame and undergo disease, without involving the rest of the sj'stem in any sympathetic disturbance, till the irritation is pro- pagated to the surrounding parts, or suppuration comes on. As M. Sanson observes, a necessary consequence of these facts is, that therapeutic means, even those of the most energetic kind, fre- quently have but little power over affections of the osseous tissue ; and, if they prove effectual, it is not till after a long perseverance with them. (See Sanson, in Diet, de Mid ct de Chir. Prat. t. xii. p. 308.) See Antrum, Cancer, Caries, Exos- tosis, Fragilitas, Joints, Mollities, Ne- crosis, Osteo-Sarcoma, Osteitis, Periostitis, Rickets, Spina, Bifida, Stumps, Trephine, Venereal Dise.4se, and Vertebra. The follovping- works, relative to the patholojry bones, deserve notice: — F. C. Spoendli, De Sensibi- litate Ossium Morbosa, 4to. Gott. 1814. A. Murray, De Sensibilitate Ossiura Morbosa: (Ludw. Script. Neur. 4.) 0. Murray, Diss. Acad, de Sensibilitate Ossiimi Morbosa. Franlt. Del. Op. 12. A. Bonn, Tab. Ossium Morbosorura praecipue Thesauri Ho- viani, fol. Amst. 1785—1788. C. F. Clossius, Ueber die KranUheiten der Knochen, 12mo. Tubin?. 1799. R. Nesbitt, Human Osteogeny ; two Lectures on the Nature of Ossification, Svo. Lond. 1736. Sandifort, Museum Anatoniicum, 2 vol. fol. Lugd. 1793. Wcid- mann, De NecrosiOssium, fol. Francof. 1793. Brodie, On Diseases of Joints, Svo. last ed. J. Bou ship, in Med. Chir. Trans. CruvcUliier, Anat. Pathol, fol. Paris, 1829—1835. Dr. Cumin, in Edin. Med. and Sui-fricnl Journ. No. 82. J. B. I'alelta, Exercit. Pa- thol.'4to. Mediol. 1820-26. B.Bell, On Dis. of the Bones, 12mo. Edinb. 1S27. Dr. Carstcell's Illustra- tions of the Elem. Forms of Disease, fol. Herbert Mayo, Outlines of Human Pathology, ch. i. Svo. Lond. 1S35. J. L. San.ion, Art. Os. et Osteitis m Diet, de Mdd. et de Chir. Prat. t. xii. Paris, 1834. And various other publications specified at the end of the article Necrosis. Clielius, System of Surff. translated by South. London, 1845. iN'e/u^on, Elem. de Pathol. Chir. t. i. Paris, 1844. BOUGIE is a smooth and generally a fle.\ible instrument, which is introduced into the urethra for the cure of diseases of that passage (see Ure- thra); and so named from its bearing some re- semblance to a wax taper, in French, bougie. However, the kinds of bougies are various, and some of them, employed in modern surgery, so iar from having any similitude to a wax taper, are formed altogether of metal or catgut. They ad- mit of being divided into those which are solid, and others, which are hollow, and more commonly named catheters. (See Catheter.) The exact period when bougies were first used h se empiric T'and, in 1551,'tlielame author published wliat had been communicated to him upon this is a doubtful point. By Andrew Lacuna, a Spanis physician, the invention is ascribed to a Portiigues