1074 HYPERyEMIA, liyperfcmias, from the removal of fluids from cavi- ties, may be immediately followed by ha3morrhago from rupture of vessels caused by the sudden diminution of pressure on their walls. A some- what similar result occurs when the evacuation of the aqueous humour of the eye is followed by hy- peraemia and minute extravasation of blood from the vessels of the ciliary processes. Hyperaemia of the lungs, also, is the anatomical basis of many sudden deaths; it is often produced very rapidly by exertions which overtask the respiratory func- tion, sudden shocks, rarefaction of the atmosphere, or mechanically, from hypertrophy and dilatation of the heart, and may prove speedily fatal as simple hyperseraia or with acute oedema, hyperemia of the brain and effusion into the ventricles being a frequent consecutive complication. It may also pass rapidly into stasis and inflammation, and produce apoplexy of the lungs and hasmoptysis. Hyperaemia of the spinal cord is a concomitant of many acute and chronic diseases, being met with in those who die of tetanus, hydrophobia, convul- sions, and many poisons; also, in diseases of the vertebraj, as exostoses, luxations, or morbid growths, producing pressure and irritation. Sometimes hy- perasmia pervades the whole spinal cord and brain, especially in children, and has all the characteris- tics of an idiopathic disease. The central ganglia of the sympathetic system are often hyperaemic. The affection here appears to be most frequently pas- sive, and occurs particularly in acute diseases of low type, as in typhus and cholera. Many affec- tions of sense are the results of hyperaemia, as muscae volitantes from hyperaemia of the choroid coat of the eye, and tinnitus aurium from hyper- aemia in the organ of hearing. Hyperaemia of the liver may result, as already intimated, from valvular diseases of the heart obstructing the circulation, or any of those affections of the lungs which greatly impede the respiration by contraction of the vena cava in- ferior above the opening of the hepatic veins, or of the hepatic veins themselves at their opening into the cava, as from the pressure of tumors. In such cases the branches of the he- patic veins in the liver are mechanically distended and the organ enlarged. Hypersemias of the liver are also often developed independent of any obstruction to the circulation. They are some- times active, being produced by alcoholic fluids, spices, and condiments, and a too stimulating diet generally; and often passive, produced by atony of the vessels, or debilitated action of the heart They are frequently dependent on the influence of a high temperature and miasmatic infection of the blood, or the suppression of habitual discharges. Hyperaemia of the liver constitutes the starting point of almost all the structm'al diseases of the organ, as atrophy of the parenchyma, suppuration, hepatitis, cirrhosis, apoplexy of the liver, and hemorrhagic softening. It is attended with un equally distributed ltypera;mias of the mucous membrane of the stomach and bowels, impeding the absorption of tlie nutritive fluids. It is usually attended with tightness or fulness of tiie right liy- pochondriuin. This condition of the liver is often associated with surgical diseases of the rectum and lower extremities. Febrile phenomena are )iot essentially connected With liypora;mias, but the latter are among the most constant symptoms of fovers and diseases of nmalig^ nant type generally, and of poisons received into the blood. In the cold stage of ague the malaria appears to produce congestion of the liver and spleen. The whole smface of the body is often covered with patches of congested vessels, in the form of petechias and vibices, in low fevers; and hypersemias in different parts of the nervous sys- tem, in the mucous membranes, and in the paren- chymatous organs generally, are among their most serious complications. The special symptoms and sequelae of hyper, aemia, as it occurs in morbid states of the blood, as in gout, syphilis, typhus, tuberculosis, and other diseases, are fully described in various parts of this dictionary, or in the standard works of the day on the practice of physic, and can be advan- tageously studied only in connection with the general pathology of the respective diseases. Metastasis, so frequent an event where hj'peraemia exists, is most probably the result o*' a materies morbi, generated in a part, being either re-absorbed from the blastema, or ebbing back into the blood, and producing its effects in distant parts, where hyperasmia may have been induced; as in the sup- pression of gout of the extremities, when any influence capable of producing hyperaemia of the stomach, as drinking cold fluid, will also occasion an attack of gout of that organ. Hyperaemia may exist, on the one hand, in any structure during life without leaving the slightest post mortem trace, and may even con- tinue until dissolution takes place, and not be detectable on examination afterwards. On the other hand, both hyperamia and stasis may be produced during the death struggle, as the con- sequence of unequable palsy of the smaller blood- vessels and capillaries; and this is particularly the case in the mucous membrane of the intestines and in the lungs; occurring in distinct patches of capil- lary vessels of variable extent. {Rokitanski/.) The subsidence of all appearance of the lesion is com- mon in serous and mucous surfaces, and attribut- able to the rapidity with which the vessels empty themselves after death, if they have not altogether lost their tone; a portion of their thinner contents at the same time exuding and the remaining fluid passing into the veins of the congested part. The post mortem hypostatic hj^periemias of dependent pai'ts have to be carefully distinguished from those existing before death. In hyperaimic organs and textures generally the capillaries and veins are found engorged, and if the aftection has been considerable, they are swollen, of loose texture, friable and lacerable, and the blood being darker than natural, they present different shades of a dark red colour. In the mucous membranes, for in- stance, every degree of change, from distension of the veins and capillaries, or congestion of the membrane, to swelling, oedema, and even axmoi- rhage is observable. There are often eft'usions of serous or sanguineous fluids from the hyperajmic surfaces, ecchymoses of a deep red colour in the skin, and in mucous, serous, and parenchymatous parts; and rust-coloured, slate-grey, or bluisli-blaolc eft'usions, produced by the admixture of blood-pig- ment with the fluid effused, in the lungs and tlie intestinal canal. , e TrMimant—There is no part of the practice M surgery which more seriously demands the exercise of a correct judgiuent, than the treatment oi nj- pertemia. In any particular case, its oxistenc