290 or fibular side. In tTie two upper thirds of the leg, the posterior tibial artery is deep seated, Ij iiis; in the upper third upon the tibialis posticus, in tiie middle third upon the flexor digitorum communis ; while lower down it is separated from the tibia only by fat and cellular tissue. From the gastrocnemius and soleus, which muscles lie over its two upper thirds, it is heparated by the deep crural fascia. In the lower third, no mus- cles cover it. In the arch of tbe os calcis, the posterior tibial artery is in contact with the fibrous sheath of the flexor communis digitorum, about half an inch from the posterior border of the inner mal- leolus. Here the nerve is behind it, the veins on either side. The artery is enveloped in cel- lular and adipose tissue. The internal ligament of the tarsus, a fibrous layer continuous with the fascia of ihe leg, after covering the artery, becomes blended with the dense cellular tissue interposed between the vessel and the skin. ( Velpeau.) Be- tween the internal malleolus and the lower part of the calf, the posterior tibial artery is somewhat further from the internal edge of the tibia, and the nerve is rather on its outer side than behind it. The deep-seated fascia, which is here very thin, keeps the artery bound down upon the flexorlongus communis digitorum. Superficial to this fascia is the tissue that fills the sheath of the tendon of Achilles, and then the common fascia of the leg directly under the skin. Opposite the calf, the posterior tibial artery is very deeply seated, almost on the same plane as the posterior surface of the tibia, and much nearer to its external or fibular edge than its internal. It is covered by a strong fascia, that lies over the flexor muscles ; and then by the tibial portion of the soleus ; the internal head of the gastrocne- mius ; the fascia of the leg ; the subcutaneous cellular tissue, in which are found the great saphenous vein and the long saphenous nerve ; and lastly the skin. (See IV/icaa.) In this operation the leg is to be bent and laid upon its outside. _ . . Behind the malleolus internus. — An incision, slightly curved, with its concavity forwards, is to commence an inch above, and to terminate an inch below the posterior edge of the malleolus in- ternus, and to be at least three lines behind it. It will, therefore, be between the malleolus internus and the tendo Achillis. If the operation is to be performed in the hollow of the os calcis, it is necessary, as M. Velpeau directs, to divide the tissues cautiously, layer by layer, and to introduce a director under the fascia, previously to its divi- sion, lest the artery, which is sometimes very superficial, be wounded. If the incision were made too near the malleolus, the fibro-synovial sheath ot the groove, which that process contributes to form, would be opened : if too far backward, the artery would be more difiicult to find. (See Velpeau, Nouv. Elem. de Med. Oper. t. i.) In fiict, behnid the lower end of the tibia, the tendons of the tibialis posticus and of the flexor communis digitorum pass in a kind of furrow. Along with these two ten- dons, but somewhat nearer to the os calcis, the posterior tibial artery descends to the sole of the foot. The depth of the posterior tibial artery in the two upper thirds of the leg, makes it difficult to take it up in these situations. When necessary, ARTERIES. however, it may be exposed, and tied above and below the wound in it, by proceeding as follows :— An incision, four inches in length, is made along the inner side of the tibia ; the soleus muscle detached from the bone to the same extent, and reflected. The internal saphenous vein is to be avoided. Under the soleus muscle is found the fascia, which separates the muscles of the calf into superficial and deep-seated. When this fascia has been divided, tlie posterior tibial artery may be seen, or felt, deeply situated, running on the tibialis posticus and flexor muscle of the toes. (See 1-Iall.er, Icon. Anat. fasc. v. tab. 6; Manec, De la Liy. des Arleres, fol. Paris, 1822, pi. 13.) The method of trying to take up the posterior tibial artery, by making the incision at the inner and posterior edge of the tibia, is disapproved^ of by Mr. Guthrie on account of its difiiculties. The operator (says he) has cut his four inches, has turned up the edge of the gastrocnemius, and has insinuated his director under the head of the soleus, which he has also sliced away from the bone. The artery is still an inch outwards bound down by a strong fascia," which "must be cut immediately over, or by the side of the artery : it will not do to separate it from the bone, and then to push it outwards or towards the fibula ; it can- not be done." Then supposing the fascia to be divided in the best way, Mr. Guthrie deems the separation of the two veins from the artery, and the passage of the aneurism-needle under the artery from without inwards, so as to avoid the nerve, almost impracticable. "If a bystander should inquire why this most painful, difficult, bloodj^ tedious, and dangerous operation is done, the answer would be, solely because it was not usual to make a longitudinal incision in the muscles of the calf of the leg. — an incision, which, if made by accident, would be pronounced to be one at- tended with little danger, and not likely to lead to any subsequent detriment." (See Guthrie, On Inj. and Dis. of Arl.-p. 259.) \ . , Instead of this method, Mr. Guthrie advocates the following:—An incision is to be made, six or seven inches in length, through the integuments and muscles of the calf down to the fascia it the case is a gun-shot wound, the centre of the incision is to be on a line with the shot-holes ; or if they are diagonal to each other, between them The smoothness of the fascia points o«t ; fd the loose cellular membrane, connecting the divided muscles to it, allows the edges of this long incision to be easily separated and the fascia cut, so as to expose the nerve, artery, and veins. The tourni- quet is now to be unscrewed, and the bleeding denotes where the artery is injured. Theknite may be applied perpendicularly to the fascia, and the'artery laid bare for three or four inches m extent (p. 261). Perhaps the length of he incision, as here described, is rather greater than acui'necessary. Five inches will afto.^ a g.-J deal of room ; but, where the muscles of the call arc very bulky, it will be requisite to make the """i«"f 0/ Peroneal Arter,. - Here, follow r^Ir. Guthrie's directions, the incision should also be made through the n>«scle. f t^m calf, towards the fibular side of the l^'S "'^J X tbedeep fascia under tl'- been d .^^^^ artery will be found covered by t'>^ the flexor longus pollicis, at any point below three