666 FEVER. wZr.'f ?f ^'J' 1!'""^ membrane of the nose, with I attack that prostrates the body like a cannon fracture of tlie lachrymal, or nerhans of t)m Ptl,mn,M i;r„ ;„ . r',^ ^ <=?""on oal), fracture of tlie lachrymal, or perhaps of the ethmoid bone ; and until the fissure has closed, the emphy- sema IS apt to recur if the patient blows his nose. If he abstains from this the effused air soon becomes absorbed without any especial treatment. (Dixon, A Chiide to the practical Study of Diseases of the Eve. cS-c. 1855, p. 288.)] [On the anomalies of size, number, &c. and on Co- loboina, consult nhnhj, Kkhten. und Missbildung-en &c. I. Bd. 1S43, s. 181, and s. 536-538. IlimlvX c Bd. s. 100. Desmarrcs, Traits, &c. 1847, p. 37. Am- mon, Zeitschrift fiir OplithalmoloKie i. Bd. s 533 Can-on de Villardo, Guide pratique, &c. vol i 1838 p. 383. Desmarres, Annal. d'Ocul. vol. vi. p. 236." Ber nard, Ann. d'Ocul, vol. ix. p. 40; Ann. d'Ocul, vol XXIX. p. 211. St. Ives, Tractat, von den Kkhten. des Auges: translated hy Herschel, 1730, cap. 10, s. 119 Beer, das auge oder Versuch, &c. 1813, s. 53. Ilev- felder, Zeitsclirft f. Ophthl. 1 Bd. s. 480. Cuvier Ann. d'Ocul. vol. vii. p. 10. Amnion. Zeitsclirift fiir Ophth. 3 Bd. s 244, und 5 Bd. s. 83. Prokaska, 1854 2 Bd. s. 636. Him/.jj, 1. c. 1 Bd. s. 96 und 536. f>t. Ives, 1. c. s. 128. C/ierillon, Ann. d'Ocul. vol. xxix. p* 283< On Inflammation of the Eyelids consult Himlii, Kkhten. und Missbildung:en, &c. 1 The. s. 201—207 Dr. Stellwap, v. 1. Ophthalm. s. 1009. Carron de Vil- ears, Ann. d'Ocul. vol. xxxiii. p. 245. Stellwaa, 1, c. p. 1010.] FEVER. [In this Dictionary we are not called upon to treat of tlie various kinds of fever which custom has assigned to the care of the physician; sucli as the agues, and the malarious and remittent fevers, which are believed to arise from marsh emanations ; the continued fevers, including the typhoid, typhus, gaol fever, plague, and others, which are believed to arise from mismanagement of the conditions under which human beings live; nor yet of those mj^sterious epidemics, or influenzas, which are believed to be brought by the wind; nor yet of the exanthematous class, as the small-pox and scarlet fever, whicli, as a rule, attain their full development but once in the lifetime of any indi- vidual, and which are supposed to be produced by some specific contagion. In this place we propose to treat generally of those fevers, or feverish conditions, which may ac- company such local inflammations, wounds, and in- juries, as the surgeon is accustomed to consider his special objects of study. Using the word fever in this sense, we mean by it a general disturbance of the whole faculties and functions of the body, beginning usually with shiv- ering followed by increased heat and dryness of skin, lightness or pain or confusion of the head, aching and lassitude of back and limbs, weakness and incapacity of mental and bodily exertion, dis- turbed action of the heart and arteries and lungs, and interruption or disorder of the secretions of the tongue, intestinal tube, kidneys, and skin. These disturbances are capable of a truly infinite variety in kind, in degree, and in mode of combin- ation ; sometimes so violent as to extinguish life rapidly, sometimes so slight as to bo scarcely noticcd,andsometimesalmost indefinitely prolonged. 1 lie climax of severity is found in that febrile condition which may be called intense surgical or traumatic or hospital fever, which is identical with acute pyajmia, and with the worst members of the s ng cal fevor, vary from the condition called hectic tr„, ^'^o'nmonly called caefejv«. In the one cx- "enic ol tlie series the fever may be a foudroyant and destroys life m a few hours; in the other a slight chilliness and languor, which may go on lor months or years. Fevers, or feverish maladies, such as those which we have to do with, have a twofold, sometimes a threefold, relation to local disease. In tlie first place, the starting point may be local, isorae change in the tissues of an injured part some irritation of the nerves of sensation, or some change undergone by the fluids at one point, possi- bly by the imbibition of a poison, serves as the first step in the chain of morbid phenomena, and seems to change the composition of the whole blood, and so irritate the whole system. This is the case in the syraptomatic or sympathetic fever which ac- companies an irritated or ill-treated wound. Secondly, the changes in the blood and nervous system instead of being secondary may be primarj^, and may be the originating cause of idiopathic local inflammation. Instances of this are so com- mon as to require no illustration ; yet we may refer to the well-known cases of the exanthemata, of idiopathic erysipelas arising from infection, or from bilious disorder, of boils, and the like. Thirdly, a febrile condition having been excited by local change, may be the parent of secondary (co72secz<ifz«eor?;zetastoi!"c) inflammations in other re- mote parts. Pyajmia and glanders are examples. These relations of general febrile with local in- flammatoi-y changes are, besides, often combined in diflferent ways in different cases of the same disease. Thus, erysipelas may begin by local contamination of a wound; so notoriously may hospital gangrene; so does the small-pox when inoculated; so may some cases of farcy, of puerperal fever, and of the diffuse inflammation ; whilst, in other cases of these same diseases, the first step is no local change, but a general malaise and shivering, which perhaps precede any local changes by some hours or days. In other cases, again, as in snake bites, the first local change, and the general [blood infection, come at one coup from one and the same cause, and it were idle to talk of eitlier preceding or being the cause of the other. The general law appears to be, that the local changes are, as the Germans say, the localisa- tion of the Mood crasis ; or, in plain English, that whereas the entire mass of blood and serum is one fluid, every part of which is miscible with every other part, so any perverted portion of blood or serum may be absorbed into and taint tlie whole, and so any morbid matter in the whole may be exuded into any particular part. We do not pretend to give any thorougli or satisfactory explanation of the phenomena of fever, or of the changes which take place in the course of it; still less will we wander into the region of final causes or purposes, which seems to liave such a dreamy charm for the idolators of John Hunter. But, regarding as we do an hypothesis to bo an allowable mode of giving the best explanation of any given set of phenomena, compatible with the present state of knowledge, we maj' give the fol- lowing as our hypothesis of fever, whether in the general sense, or in that more limited sense in which it interests the surgeon:— " A process of decomposition set up in the blood, and producing increased oxidation, or local deposit, or increased secretion, or all three." {Surgeon's Vade Mecuni, 8th ed. Lond. 1859, p, 27.)