DISLOCATION. 560 The symptoms arc as follow":—The whole limb is turned outwards, and cannot be rotated inwards: it is shortened by one inch; the trochanter major is hearer the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium than natural; the head of the bone forms a tumour in the groin above the level of Poupart's ligament, on the outer side of the femoral artery and vein, where it can be perceived to move when the thigh bono itself is moved. Sir A. Cooper re- marks that there is a slight flexion of tlie limb forwards and outwards. {Surgical Essays, part i. p. 45.) By the stretching of the anterior crural nerve, which lies over the neck of the bone (see Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations), gvent pain, numb- ness, and even paral3'sis, are liable to be produced. Tlie knee is generally carried backwards. [In a case under the care of Mr. Morgan, in Guy's Hospital, the head of the bone was felt pressing Poupart's ligament upwards, and was placed upon the femoral artery so as to stop the pulsation; while the pressure at the same time upon the anterior crural nerve produced numbness of the thigh. {Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations, cd. by B. Cooper, case Iviii. p. 89.) The dislocation forwards and upwards might, by an inattentive observer, be mistaken for a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, as shortening and eversion are characteristic of both; but the head of the bone felt in the groin, the absence of crepitus, and the diminished mobility of the joint, will de- cide the nature of the accident. The head of the femur rests in the notch be- tween the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium and the pectineal eminence. The term ilio- pubic, therefore, is correctly applicable to this dis- location. M. Malgaigne believes it to be most frequently incomplete—that is, that some portion of the head of the bone is still placed opposite to the articular cavity; and in this case there is an appreciable interval between the upper margin of the head of the bone and Poupart's ligament; but the incomplete dislocation may and does often sub- sequently become complete, from the attempts made to bear the weight of the body upon the limb. The shortening of an inch, mentioned by Sir A. Cooper, does not appear to be constant, for cases have been observed where the length was very little altered, and others in which, instead of shortening, there was absolute elongation; in one instance, observed by Mr. Morgan, even to the extent of two inches. M. Malgaigue believes that neither the shortening nor the elongation are real, but that the appearances depend partly upon tlie degree of abduction of the thigh, but chiefly upon the oblique position of the pelvis, which in some cases is inclined upwards, and in some downwards ; while in others it preserves its natural position, witiiout any ob- vious reason for the dill'erence (loc. cit. p. 843.). Retention of urine has been noticed occasionally to accompany this dislocation. The following is Sir A. Cooper's account of the dissection of an old unreduced dislocation of this kind:—"The original acetabulum was partly filled by bone, partly occupied by the trochanter major, and botli were much altered in their form. The capsular ligament wa^extensively lacerated, and the lignmentum teres was torn through. Tlic head of the thigh-bone had torn up Poupart's ligament, so as to penetrate between it and the pubes. The head and neck of the bone were thrown into a position under the iliacus and psoas muscles, the I tendons of which, in passing to their insertions over the neck of the bone, were elevated by it, and put on the stretch. The crural nerve passed on the fore part of the neck of the bone upon the iliacus and psoas muscles. The head and neck of the thigh-bone] were much flattened and changed in their form. Upon the pubes a new acetabulum had been formed for the neck of the thigh-bone, the head of the bone being above the level of the pubes. Poupart's ligament stretched across it on the forepart, whilst the femoral artery and vein were placed on its inner side, so that the head of the bone rested between the crural sheath and the anterior and inferior spinous process of the ilium." {On Dislocations, ed. by B. Cooper p. 86.) Reduction.—The reduction by forcible'extension is to be conducted, according to Sir A.Cooper, in the following manner:—The patient is to be placed on his sound side on a table ; a girth is to be carried between the pudendum and upper part of the thigh, and fixed in a staple a little in front of the line of the bodj'. The pulleys are to be fixed above the knee, as in the dislocation backwards and up- wards, and then the extension is to be made in a line behind the axis of the body, so as to draw the thigh-bone backwards. After this extension has been for some time continued, a towel is placed under the upper part of the thigh, and an assistant, pressing with one hand upon the pelvis, lifts the head of the bone, by means of the towel, over the pubes and edge of the acetabulum. In the method by manipulation, the thigh should be flexed over the abdomen, adducted, and rotated inwards. This plan should be invariably tried before more severe measures are resorted to.] 7. Dislocation upwards—[Supra-Coli/loid, Mal- gaigne. — Dislocation directly upwards has been oc- casionally observed. The head of the bone may rest upon the margin of the acetabulum immediately beneath the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, or it may be situated higher up, in the notch between the anterior superior and the an- terior inferior spinous process. The former is described by M. Malgaigne as an incomplete and the latter as a complete dislocation. Of the former kind an instance was observed in St. George's Hospital in 1041. The subject of it had been thrown from a cart, and suffered other injuries, from which he died soon after his admission. Tlie outer part of the left hip joint was much flattened, and the usual prominence of the trochanter want- ing. About an inch below, and a little external to a line drawn perpendicularly downwards from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, was situated the head of the femur—which could be dis- tinctly felt to move on flexing or rotating the limb. The eversion of the foot was so considerable that the great toe might be said to point outwards and slightly backwards. On examination after death it was found that the head of the bone had been dislocated directly upwards, the head lying on the anterior inferior spinous process, and a little to its outside. 'The trochanter major was situated pos- teriorly, and rested upon the dorsum of the ilium; the trochanter minor resting on the outer edge of the acetabulum. (See Lancet, 1840-41, vol. u. p. 281.)] Mr. VVormald has published the following case, in which there was a dislocation of the head of the femur upwards, with displacement of a portion