601 EAR. lu Acrcl's surgical cases, there is a case relative to tlie circumstance of which we are speaking. Suppuration took place in the meatus auditorius externus, in consequence of acute rheumatism, ■which was followed by vertigo, restlessness, and a violent lieadach. The matter discharged was yel- lowish, of an aqueous consistence, and acid smell. The meatus auditorius was filled with a spongy flesh. On introducing a probe, Acrel felt a piece of rough bone, which he immediately took hold of with a pair of forceps, and extracted. From the time when this was accomplished, the discharge diminished ; and, with the aid of proper treatment, the patient became perfectly well. The meatus auditorius, like all other parts of the body, is subject to inflammation. This is frequently produced b}' exposure to cold. It is hardly neces- sary to say, that generally topical bleeding and antiphlogistic means are indicated. The meatus auditorius should also be protected from the cold air, particularly in the winter season, by means of apiece of cotton.- Mr. Saunders observes, " When the means employed to reduce the inflammation have not succeeded, and matter has formed, it is generally evacuated, as far as I have observed, between the auricle and mastoid process, or into the meatus. If it has been evacuated into the meatus, the opening is most commonly small, and the spongy granulations, squeezed through a small aperture, assume the appearance of a polypus. Sometimes the small aperture, by which the matter is evacu- ated, is in this manner even closed, and the patient suffers the inconvenience of frequent returns of pain from the retention of the discharge. When the parts have fallen into this state, it will be expedient to hasten the cure by making an inci- sion into the sinus, between the auricle and mastoid process. " It occasionally happens, that the bone itself dies in consequence of the sinus being neglected, or the original extent of the suppuration. The exfoliating parts are the meatus extern us of the OS temporis, or the external lamina of the mastoid process." (P. 24,25.) [A follicular abscess, or an abscess occurring in one or more of the ceruminous follicles, is a very fruitful source of such a discharge ; it is often attended with extreme suffering from the non-yield- ing'character of the surrounding parietes ; and from the distension occupying the canal, complete deaf- ness results, to be relieved only upon the subsidence of the tumefaction. These abscesses frequently re- quire to be opened, and are to be treated with wannth and moisture in the ordinary manner.] In some examples of purulent discharge from the car, and particularly in scrofulous patients, Mr. Buchanan employs alterative medicines, as calomel, the tincture of iodine, and the compound riiubarb pills of the Edi7i. I'harmacopaeia. He also sometimes has recourse to the pyroligneous injection. (See Illustrations of Acoustic Siin/eiy, p. 03, &c.) Some additional cases in favour of the efficacy of iodine, in certain forms of deafness, may be found in Dr. Manson's work. (See Medi- cal, Researches on tlie Effects of Iodi?ie, 8vo. London, 1825.) .9. Excrescences in tlie Meatus Auditorius. Though the membrane lining the meatus audito- rius is very delicate, it is not the lees liable to be- come thickened, and to form polypous excrescences,, As such tumors are ordinarily firmer in their texture than polypi of the nose, they are some- times not so easily extracted with forceps. When they are situated near the external orifice, and admit of being taken hold of with a small pair of forceps, or a hook, and drawn outwards, they may easily be cut away. Sometimes the excrescences, instead of being adherent by a narrow neck, have a broad base, which occupies a considerable extent of the passage. In such cases, the use of eschar- otics has been proposed ; but, they cannot be used without risk of injuring the tympanum. Mr. Buchanan prefers the practice of removing polypi of the meatus with forceps, and afterwards touch- ing the part from which they grew with the ung. hydrarg. nitrat. or tinct. ferri muriatis. {Acoustic Surg, p. 74.) He also recommends washing out the passage every day with the injection, ^. Acid. Pyrolign. 5ij. Aq. destillatas J vj. ft. lotio. I lately attended a lady, who had a round smooth tumor growing from the membrana tympani, to which it was attached by means of a long pedicle. It nearly filled the meatus, and was attended with a discharge. With the assistance of Mr. Morton, of University College, I cut through its pedicle, removed it, and then applied the nitrate of silver. But, in a few weeks, it grew again, and it was once more removed with the same result. I next intended to twist it off ; but it was attacked with inflammation, and sloughed away. I do not at present know whether it is growing again. 10. Herpes of tlie Meatus Auditorius. An herpetic ulcerous eruption sometimes affects the meatus auditorius and auricle, producing con- siderable thickening of the skin, and so great an obstruction of the passage, that a good deal of deafness is the consequence. Mr. Saunders re- marks, that, in this case, " the ichor, which exudes from the pores of the ulcerated surface, inspissates in the meatus, and not only obstructs the entrance of sound, but is accompanied with a great degree of fetor. This disease is not infrequent. I have never seen it resist the effect of alterative medi- cines," the use of injections containing the bi- chloride of mercury, and the application of the unguentum hydrargyri nitratis. Mr. Saunders ex- hibited calomel as the alterative, and in one instance, employed a solution of the nitrate of silver as an injection. (P. 25, 2G.) When the disease is obstinate, a seton should be made on the nape of the neck, or a blister be applied behind the ear. The tincture of iodine should also be tried. [Extreme cleanliness is of the utmost importance in these and similar affections ; in addition to which astringent lotions appear to be the most available as the solutions of lead, of alum, of zinc, &c. A very useful form is liq. plumb, dincet. jss., acidi acetici diluti 5S8., aquoe 5vij., to be dropped into the ear two or three times a day, or syringed in night and morning, as the urgency of the case may require.] 11. Affections of the Tympanum. The ear is sometimes affected with a puriform ichorous discharge, attended with a Kiss of hearing, proportionate to the degree of disorganisation which the tympanum has sustained. Frequently, on blowing the nose, air is expelled at the meatus