1 ABSCESS. B 4 boon widely extravasated, and ofifonsive discharges . penetrate the muscuhir interstices ; or when urine is oxtiavasated, or when some poison, as that of snakes, has been inserted into the areolar tissue. Some cases too of carbuncle, may really be called dift'iised abscesses, so widely are the unhealthy exudations spread in the areolar tissue. But the most frequent cause of diffused abscess is phleg- monous erysipelas, and the state known as pyaemia, in which it is probable that the blood is ♦impreg- nated with some putrid poison. Not but that the same kind of abscess may follow any grave fever; thus during typTius, the areolar tissue of a whole limb, from the foot to the nates may be filled with pus. Now whether we have regard to the nature of the exudations which produce abscess or not, we shall find that the threefold division into acute, eh ronic, and diffuse, will be a convenient one, as it will show the treatment applicable to the largest number of cases. Most acute abscesses arise from a common inflaramatorj' tendency ; most chronic abscesses from a state of debility allied to scrofula ; and most diffused abscesses, from the presence of some wide contamination of the blood. The most frequent situation of abscesses is the areolar tissue, especially the subcutaneous, or intermuscular. But tliere is no tissue which admits of unhealthy exudations into its interstices, which may not be the seat of the abscess. It is to be remarked further that, the areolar tissue, just outside an irritated membrane, is often the seat of abscess. The commonest abscesses perhaps which occur, are those situated just ex- ternal to lymphatic glands, when these glands are irritated by poisonous matter brought to them by their afferent vessels. In the common acne, the exudation and suppuration are usually just external to the sebaceous follicles. In phlebitis, and angeio leucitis, in mammary abscess, in erysipelas and eczema, the same thing occurs perpetually. A surface is bathed with unhealthy secretion, or vitiated liquor sanguinis, as the case may be ; a portion of this is imbibed and creates abscess external to the membrane: or an unhealthy exu- dation may be directed both to the surface and to the tissues beneath. But whatever the explana- tion, the fact remains. Of all situations of abscess perhaps, as we have just said, the lymphatic glands and the areolar tissue around them are the commonest. They are exposed to the passage of irritating matter through the lymphatics from every sore, abrasion, and inter- stitial exudation whatever. Hence the frequency of bubo of the groin in syphilis and gonorrhoea, of swelling above the elbow or in the axilla after punctures of the hands ; and of the cervical glands from cutaneous disease of the face or scalp ; moreover they are the chosen seat of exu- dation in scrofula, and in almost every state of weakness and cachexia, scrofulous or not. (See Ly.MPH.ATlC GI-AND.S, BuiJO, &c.) Acute Abscesi in the Areolar Tissue or Phlegnrn begins with the usual signs of acute iiifliimmation. Let us suppose that such an abscess follows a local injury, such as bruise, or puncture ; that the patient iias not kept the injured part at rest, and has been living freely. Pain which gradually increases, and acquires a decidedly throbbing character ; heat, swelling, and redness, most intense at the centre, will be the symptoms. The accession of these symptoms is marked by slight chills, which, as we remark elsewhere (see Inflammatiop<^, are the earliest signs of de- rangement in the blood. These are followed by the usual feverish symptoms ; headache, lassitude, quick pulse, hot skin, on which we need not dilate here. The swelling increases, and is exquisitely- tender in the centre and cedematous around. During this time, which maj' vary from twenty- four hours to three days, the affected part is becoming enfiltered with increasing quantities of exudation ;—with blood and liquor sanguinis and fibrine. Now comes the change from the cedema- tous and adhesive to the suppurative stage. The centre of the swelling becomes softer and more prominent; and tends, as is commonlj' said, to jMint; its colour becomes of a paler or j'ellower cast ; and if gentle pressure be made with the fingers of each hand alternately a fluid may be felt within, to be impelled from side to side like a wave ; hence the term fluctuation. And now, if the part were examined it would be found that the central mass of exudation was softening into pus, that there was a central cavit}', containing blood, serum, pus ready formed, and flakes of lymph not quite softened, whilst the exudation around retaining its vital properties forms a pretty definite sac or cyst, by which the pus is circum- scribed and prevented from being diffused into the areolar tissue. (See Suppuration.) The abscess being thus fully formed, nature proceeds to get rid of the contents. The parts between the cavity and the skin gradually melt down, the quantity of matter increases, the cover- ings become thinner, and the pointing and fluctua- tion more decided. At last the skin becomes tense, portions of the centre look yellowish, and lose their cuticle; at last one or more apertures are formed, and the pus escapes. Then is presented the spectacle so familiar in idea to the readers of Hunter, of the various effects of inflammation in concentric circles. At the cir- cumference, where the inflammation is least intense, a ring of oedema; within this, a layer of adhesive matter forming the cyst; within that, suppuration; and in the centre, a process of ulceration — the natural surgeon — combined perhaps with some degree of sloughing, in order that the results of the inflammatorj' process may be got rid of. In the case of abscess, throroughly idiopathic, that is, depending on some morbid state of the blood, and not preceded by local injury, uneasy constitutional symptoms may exist for a certain time previously. Perhaps the patient is recovering slowly from the effects of a fever; perhaps the case is one of a woman in imperfect health, taxing her digestive organs to supply material for nursing an infant; perhaps there have been headaches, or pains in the side, or wandering pains in bones or joints, but in such a case shivering is tlie first symptom; pain in the part affected follows; and these symp- toms may come with the greatest suddenness. The writer has scon a case of a lady, rather out of health .md weakly, who was seized with shivering, and became delirious in an luuir : acute inflamma- tion of one breast fullowcd. In sonic cases, idio- pathic abscess is preceded by a patch of eczema or by some other cutaneous eruption; ))ut in many cases the suddenness of the first local pain is re- markable.