10052 HERNIA. the peritoneum and abdominal wall; this he must do either with his fingers or by the aid of a pair of forceps. Having effected this object, the sac should be retained by an assistant, while the sur- geon proceeds to open it and divide the stric- ture formed by its neclt. Six operations, performed by Dupuytren on strangulated herniaj, reduced en masse, will exemplify the difficulties which may be met with and overcome in these cases. These cases are described by M. Sanson. {Dictionnaire de Medecine ei de Chirurgie pratiques, torn. ix. p, 390.) " In two (of the sis cases) the efforts which he caused the patient to make brought the swelling down again in a mass, as it had gone up, and the operation was performed in the usual manner. The tumor could not be brought out again in the four others. In two of these, where there was hernia on one side only, an incision was made over the ring, which enabled the opera- tor to seize the swelling and draw it down, when the operation was completed. In the two others there was a hernia on each side. Both had been returned, and it could not be determined which of them had been strangulated. On one of these the operation was performed on the side where there was no strangulation; it was then repeated on the other side. The tumor was drawn out, and the operation finished. On the other the operation was fortunately performed, at first, on the side where the strangulation existed." (Lawrence, Treatise on Ruptures, Sth ed. p. 152.) In oblique ijiguinal hernia, from the length of the canal the sac has to traverse, more especially when it descends into the scrotum, and the extent of the surfaces with which it is in contact, and to which it contracts adhesions, this complication of the re- duction cn masse of the strangulated rupture, as might be expected, occurs much less frequently. The hernial tumor may be made, it is true, in some instances, to leave the upper part of the scrotal region when the external abdominal ring is large, and when the strictm'e is situated at the internal ring; but under such circumstances the swelling is evidentlj' located in the inguinal canal, and not in the abdominal cavity, forming simply an increased bulging of the space between the two rings. Mr. Birkett, who has devoted much attention to this particular question, goes so far as to doubt the possibility of reducing en masse a strangulated hernia of the oblique kind. In an elaborate paper on this division of the sub- ject, evincing considerable research {Medico- CJiirurgical Transactions, vol. xlii. p. 247), he endeavours to show that in these cases of so-called reduction en masse in oblique inguinal hernia, the tumor, when it has fairly disappeared from the inguinal canal, and has entered the abdo- minal cavity, consists of the contents of the sac only, which, by the force exerted during the appli- cation of the taxis, have been thrust through a rent in the upper part of the sac, and will be found lodged outside the sac, between the peritoneum and the abdominal wall, in the immediate neigh- bourhood of the internal ring. The sac, he main- tains, will be foimd in the scrotum and inguinal canal, retaining its usual attachments to the sur- rounding structures, and that, if examined by the finger, an opening will be discovered, which may be readily mistaken for the mouth of tlie sac, but which in reality is the laceration, through which the mtestine will be felt. The practical application of this view of the subject, should after experience prove it to be correct, will be best collected from Mr. Birkett's own words, " Should there be," he observeB, " even the slightest indications of the complication described in this paper, the operator must proceed to examine the inguinal region, for delay is inad- missible. In this operation he should first search for the hernial sac. Having opened this, upon passing the finger upwards to the internal ring, he will, very probably, pass it tlirough the laceration in the sac, and feeling the intestine, he will sup- pose he has reached the peritoneal cavity. This, however, he has not yet accomplished. He must next draw the bowel into the inguinal canal, and then, by passing the finger along the anterior sur- face of the mesentery he will reach the orijice of the hernial sac, which firmly constricts the protru- sion. The orifice of the sac must now be divided, and in the reduction of the hernia into the perito- neal cavitj', great care is required to prevent its gliding through the laceration. The division of the constriction, or orifice, of the hernial sac is accomplished with greater facility, if an assistant steadily draws the sac downwards, whilst the ope- rator introduces the bistoury on his index finger." Mr. Birkett has carefully collected thirty-seven cases of strangulated oblique inguinal hernia, said to be reduced en masse, and has given a tabulated view of their peculiarities under three heads. His first table comprises 8 cases of inguinal hernia reduced en bloc, where no operation was performed, and death resulted. In his second table are included 13 cases in which the operation was performed, and the patients recovered. In his fourth table are contained 16 cases in which the operation was per- formed, and death ensued. There can be no question, if Mr. Birkett can establish his view of the nature of the accident which has taken place in these cases, that he will have earned the credit of having elucidated one of the many complications that the practical surgeon has to encounter, in his operations for strangulated hernia. At any rate, a perusal of his paper can- not fail to place the surgeon on his guard in these obscure cases, and will afford him all the infor- mation at present attainable on the subject.] [The following tables are transcribed from Mr. Lawrence's valuable work on Ruptures. _ They shew the comparative numbers of the different kinds of ruptures, and the relative frequency of the complaint generally, as well as that of its various forms in the two sexes. The first is ex- tracted from the register of the patients relieved by the City of London Truss Society, within twenty- eight years. The second is irom M. Cloquet's work:— " In 83,584 patients, 67,798 were males, 15,786 were females. Males, 14,006 24,316 278 421 24,960 169 664 209 1 1 26 39,419 inguinal 6,210 femoral Females. 511 left inguinal n 586 right inguinal / 2.255 left femoral ? 3.256 right femoral J 286 cfouble inguinal 1,608 double femoral 2,775 umbilical \ 415 ventral / 3 peritoneal . 4 obturator 46 have undergone operations ? 45,629 ^ single. double 27,029 . . 4,063 4 5 72