in the supine position with tha elbow floxed, and pressure should be made over the head of the radius by means of a splint, pad, and bandage, until the torn parts are healed. [If the reduction cannot be accomplished, a very considerable degree of motion will be regained in course of time, by exercise of the limb. A re- markable case of this dislocation reduced by gra- dual and repeated extension more than two years after the accident has been already alludedjto, ante p. 502. The incomplele luxation is nsnally easily reduced on the principles above recommended, but it also will often require pressure snbsequently to keep the head of the bone in its place.] Into University College Hospital a lad was ad- mitted in 1836, the upper head of whose radius had been thrown considerably above the external condyle for some years ; and the motions of whose elbow were but little impaired by the accident. I have also seen two or three instances in children of dislocations of the upper liead of the radius from weakness, or relaxation of the annular ligament. 7. Dislocation of the radius lachoards. •—The displacement backwards is described by Boyer as occurring more frequently in children than adults. The reason of the circumstance is ascribed to the lesser firmness both of the ligaments and of the tendinous fibres of the extensor muscles, which fibres, in a more advanced age, contribute greatly to strengthen the external lateral ligament. In a child, also, the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna'is smaller, and the annular ligament, extending round the head of the radius, is longer, and more apt to give way. Hence, in a subject of this descrip- tion, efforts, which may not at first produce a dis- location, if frequently repeated, cause a gradual elongation of the ligaments, a change in the natural position of the bones, and, at length, a degree of displacement as great as in a case of luxation, sud- denly and immediately effected. {Mai. Chir. t. iv. p. 239.) According to Boyer the dislocation of the head of the radius backwards is .-\lways complete, its articular surfaces being perfectly separated both from the lower end of the humerus, and from the little sigmoid cavity of the ulna. The usual cause of the accident is a pronation of the fore-arm, car- ried with great violence beyond the natiirnl limits. [Most surgeons, however, describe a partial disloca- tion backwards, associated with relaxation of the ligaments. Some partial displacement must,in fact, necessarily result from the elongation of the liga- ments which Boyer himself described. At the same time, incomplete luxation backwards, as the immediate result of injury, is very uncommon, and M. Malgaigne could only discover one unequivocal example of it. Dislocation of the radius backwards may bo produced by a fall on the palm of the hand, the fore-arm being in a state of pronation; and possibly alsohy direct force applied to the anterior surface of the head of the bone. According to M. Nclaton, both this and the preceding dislocation may be caused by falls on the hand, while the fore-arm is prone, but for the dislocation backwards it is ne- cessary that the elbow should bo flexed, while for the dislocation forwards it must be extended]. In a dislocation of the head of the radius back- wards, the fore-arm is bent, and the hand fixed DISLOCATION. 541 in the state of pronation. Supination can neither be performed by the action of the muscles, nor by external force; and every attempt to execute this movement produces a considerable increase of pain. The hand and fingers are moderately bent, and the head of the radius may be observed form- ing a considerable projection behind the external condyle of the humerus. Sir Astley Cooper has never seen a dislocation of the head of the radius backwards in the living subject; but a man was brought for dissection into the theatre of St. Thomas's Hospital, who had such a dislocation, which had never been reduced. The head of the radius was thrown behind the ex- ternal condyle, and rather to the outer side of the lower extremity of the humerus. The fore part of the coronary ligament was torn through, as well as the oblique one, and the capsular was partially lacerated. [Professor Langenbeck of Giittingen Las pub- lished two cases of this accident. One was in a man aged 20, the other in a child aged 5 years. (See Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocation, ed. by Brajisby Cooper, p. 460). Several others are mentioned by Malgaigne, amounting in number to twelve alto- gether. One of these was observed by himself. {Traite des I'ract. ^c. t. ii. p. 665.) One case of in- complete displacement backwards in a youth of 19 has been recorded by M. Denuce. {These Inaug. sur les Lux. du Coude, 1854.) Mr. Bransby Cooper saw a case of dislocation of the radius outwards and backwards, but this was complicated with a fracture through the coronoid process of the ulna, entirely separating the upper extremity from the shaft of the bone. The shaft was drawn forwards by the brachialis anticus, while the upper fractured portion was drawn backwards by the triceps. Fifteen weeks having elapsed since the accident, no means were em- ployed for its reduction]. As facts of patliological anatomy relating to this dislocation, Cruveilhier informs ns that he is acquainted with only the two cases, of which Sandifort has given engravings. {Mttfeum Anat. ch. 103.) In both instances the head of the ra- dius is luxated backward, and the radius and ulna cross at their upper part-, as in extreme pronation, and are there ankylosed to one an- other. In one of these examples the head of the radius is diminished; the lesser articular sur- face of the humerus has disappeared, and been confounded with the trochlea, so as to correspond to the enlargement of the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna. The connection of the radius to the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna extends a good way along the inner side of the coronoid process and front sur- face of the ulna. Directly below this connection the radius is increased in size, and is much deformed. In consequence also of the lower end of the \ilna having lost its relations to the corresponding cavity of the radius, it no longer exists. In the second example, the radius and ulna, where they cross, are soldered together; and the lower end of the ulna is considerably deformed, and its head converted into a mere tubercle; while the head of the radius, which is displaced outwards and back- wards, is divided into two parts; one, still corre- sponding to the lesser articular surface of the humerus; the other not toudiing that surface ex- cept in extreme flexion of the joint. Cruveilhier refers to a case reported in the