GLAUCOMA. 783 then only round the optic nerve, was I able to trace optic nerve fibres. The hyaloid surface of the retina was sprinkled-with minute black pigment granules, many of which had a linear arrangement. The c/pt'tc nci-ve (wliere it passes into the eye). The transparent portion of the optic nerve fibres •was found destroyed in all cases; the cup thus formed in the optic nerve was filled by yellowish fluid, by an amorphous greyish mass, aid in several cases, by blood. The sides of the cup were formed by the retinal, choroidal, and by part of the scleral aperture, the margin of the latter projected into the cop; the vessels were pressed upon the scleral margin. The fibrous tissue which formed the bottom of the cup was considerably thickened in several cases; in others the optic nerve (bej'ond the cup) appeared healthjs except a great quantity of pigment molecules, which were deposited into the fibrous tissue which surrounds the nerve fibres. According to Mr. Dixon, "patients affected with glaucoma are almost invariably beyond the middle period of life; perhaps between fifty and sixty is the most common age for the occurrence of the disease. It usually affects both eyes. The globe, instead of having that slight degree of elasticity which it possesses in health, is pecu- liarly hard, giving to the finger almost the sensa- tion of a stone. " The sclerotic, which is often marked with faint dusky patches, is traversed by several large, tortuous, purple veins, emerging abruptly close to the margin of the cornea. Sometimes there is, in addition, a faintly marked, vascular zone; the cornea,although it may be sufficiently transparent to allow of the iris and lens being well seen, presents a peculiar unevenness of its epithelial surface ; so that the lines of the window frame, instead of being dis- tinctly and sharply depicted on it, appear broken, wavj', and irregular, and the light itself dull, as if reflected from a steamy glass. "Sometimes the cornea is decidedly hazy through- out; and occasionally the epithelium is found vesi- cated in small patches, closely resembling minute drops of water which have run together on a dewy •window-pane. " If a good view of the iris and lens can be ob- tained, the former is found in close approximation to the cornea, equally dilated all around to a mere ring; or else the pupil is irregularly oval and quite fixed. " It is commonly stated that the pupil in glaucoma is always transversely oval. This form, although very often seen, is by no means constant. The fibrous appearance of the iris is lost, and its colour, either in parts or throughout, is changed to a pecu- liar slaty tint. Sometimes the veins of the iris are sufficiently enlarged to be distinctly visible to the naked eye. " The lens advances so as almost to touch the hinder surface of the cornea ; it is opaque, some- times rather milky looking, and indistinctly stri- ated. Its threefold division is often very well marked, as if, by undergoing maceration in water, it had swollen up, and were about to buret its cap- sule. The colour of the lens varies much. It may be greyish or greenish drab, dirty yellow, or dull orange ; and marked with opaque earthy patches or streaks. " Vision of ol)jcct3 is wholly extinct; usually there is not even perception of light. I have said that the morbid appearances enu- merated may be produced in two different ways. They may have been the slow result of disease going on, with intervals of apparent quiescence, for months or even years ; or sight may have be- come extinct after a few hours of agony, and all the inflammatory changes in the tissues of the eye (except the opacity of the lens) be apparently com- pleted within a few days. " The chronic form begins very insidiously, and is probably set down as 'incipient amaurosis.' The patient complains of dimness of sight, and sometimes—by no means invariably—sees bright flashes or colours passing before him. Dull pain in the eye or in the head may, or may not, be pre- sent. In the former case, a faint vascular zone in the sclerotic often attends the onset of the pain. The iris gradually loses its briskness of movement, and the pupil becomes enlarged ; not uniformly, but so as to assume an irregular instead of a circu- lar form. It is sometimes transversely oval ; but this shape is by no means so frequent as some writers have asserted. " This state of things may go on for several months, without any very acute inflammation showing itself. Chronic iritis may then set in, the veins of the iris becoming visible, and the pupillary margin adhering to the capsule at one or two points. The sclerotic zone, in that case, would, of course, be developed. By this time vision may be lost, or restricted to the recognition of large, well- lighted objects. Then opacity of the lens begins slowly to show itself ; or, perhaps, the cornea first becomes haz}', and its epithelium uneven, so that the increasing cataract is scarcely perceived. Gradually the iris and lens advance towards the cornea. The large, dark purple veins have by this time shown themselves on the surface of the sclerotic ; and not until the end of many months, or even of a year or two, from the first failure of sight, does blindness become complete. " The sequence of morbid changes seems to be as follows:—First, in the retina and choroid, going on, perhaps, to serous effusion between these coats, which causes the bulging forwards of the lens and iris, by pressing from behind upon the vitreous body ; then congestion and inflamma- tion of the iris and cornea ; and, last of all, opacity of the lens, as a consequence of its de- ranged nutrition. " As regards the treatment of the chronic form, it is quite impossible to lay down any rules which shall apply to all cases, it must be based upon a careful study of the patient's general health, and an avoidance of whatever may seem to have destroyed the due balance of tlie circniiiting forces. As a general principle it may bo affirmed that the subjects of these insidious and dan- gerous changes in the eye are feeble and de- pressible, and therefore bleeding and salivation are most injurious. But, except in tho very earliest stage of the disease, which is, un- fortunately, very difficult to detect—the most careful treatment will often prove of little avail. In the acute fi)rm of glaucoma the sclerotic is slightly reddened, the veins emerging at the edge of the cornea are ustuilly enlarged ; tho pupils dilated, oval and quite fixed ; no decided opacity of the lens exists, but an ill-defined haziness of the pupillary space. The iris has a mottled, slaty tint and a more fibrous appearance, is bulged