1060 HYDROPHOBIA, extend this observation to all internal medicines, mercurial frictions, and plunging the patient for a considerable time under water. The instances in which a prevention is inferred to have taken place by different writers, in conse- quence of such means, may all be very rationally ascribed to other circumstances. Facts, already cited, sufficiently prove that out of the great number of persons frequently bitten by the same dog, only a limited proportion is commonly affected. The hydrophobic poison is known to reside in the saliva of the animal, consequently the chance of being affected must greatly depend upon the quantity of this fluid which is insinuated into the wound, and if the teeth of the animal should have previously pierced a thick boot or other clothing, before enter- ing the skin, the danger must obviously be much diminished. Many persons wash and suck the wound immediately after its occurrence, and thus no doubt very often get rid of the poison. Even when it is lodged in the wound, it may not be 'directly absorbed, but be thrown off with the dis- charge. All prudent patients submit to excision of the bitten part. Now under each of the above circumstances escapes havefrequentlj"^ occurred, while internal medicines, half drowning or salivating the patients, had also not been neglected, so that all the efficacy of preventives has too often been most unjustly ascribed to means which probably never yet had, and never will have, any beneficial effect whatever. What confirms the truth of the pre- ceding statement is these facts; that persons bitten by the same animal have sometimes been treated exactly on the same plan; some of them escaped the disease; others had it, and of course perished; on other occasions some of the patients bitten by the same animal have been treated in a particular way, and have escaped'.hydrophobia; while others, bitten at the same time by the animal, also never had any constitutional effects, although they took no medicines, nor followed any other particular plan. If to these reflections be added the considera- tion, that it is frequently doubtful whether the bite has actually been inflicted by a truly rabid animal, and that the mental alarm will sometimes bring on a symptomatic hydrophobia, it is easily conceivable how mistaken a person may be, who believes that he has prevented the disorder; and how unmerited is the reputation of the means which he has em- ployed for the purpose. The bite of a naturally ferocious beast has often been thought to be attended with more risk than that of an animal naturally tame; and hence the bite of a wolf is said to be more frequently fol- lowed by rabies than that of a dog. This propo- sition is admitted to be true ; but the explanation is erroneous. The true reason of the difference is that a wolf usually seizes the face, and inflicts a deeper bite; while a dog only snaps as he runs along, and mostly bites through the clothes. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. t, xlvii. p, 88.) The bite of a rabid animal may be rendered much more dangerous by being situated near a part or an organ which increases the,difficulty or risk of adopting an effectual mode of removing the whole of the flesh in which the virus may be lodged. Thus bites near the large arteries, the eyes, jomts, &c, are of a more serious descrip the tion than others. Dr. J. Hunter rated the hazai^d parts. The prognosis will always be more un- favourable when no proper measures have been applied to the bite soon after its infliction; and perhaps the risk may be increased by certain causes not having been duly avoided, which, as already stated, are thought to have a tendency to accelerate the attack of rabies. The exact time after a bite, when the prevention of rabies is no longer practicable, is quite an undetermined point- but every fact known on the subject evinces, iu an urgent manner, the necessity of adopting pre- servative measures without the least delay, [Although the pathological condition of patients, ^yho have died with hydrophobia, has been exten- sively and minutely studied by observers who number among their rank names not less illustrious than those of ilokitansky,Key, Bright, and Hughes Bennett, among the moderns ; and by the most illustrious of physicians and pathologists in bygone days; yet the collection of upwards of a hundred of the post-mortem reports affords little else than a varied mass of symptoms, common to other nervous and blood disorders, and fails to throw any clear light upon the pathology of the disease. Fraignaud recently announced {L' Union Medi- cate, 28, 1856) that cadaveric rigidity did not occur after hydrophobia. But subsequent observers (Pic/cells, Sanit. Review, 1858) do not give a similar result. As the most characteristic appear- ances, an inflammatory condition of the fauces, larynx, pharynx, and stomach has been re- ported. On this point, in analysing the existing records, it is found that the pharynx was twentj-- nine times highly vascular. The stomach was com- monly congested, and the larynx nineteen times was highly vascular. Smith thinks that these have been most usually cases of passive congestion. For the blood is commonly found to be dark and fluid, and the congestions noted are for the most part apparently hypostatic. This is especially so with the lungs. Nevertheless TroUiet, coupling the vascularity of the lungs and larynx with the presence of tenacious mucus in the bronchi, has put forward a theory that, in this bronchial secre- tion, the characteristic virus of rabies is to be sought. He points out that the salivary glands are not pathologically affected; but it must be re- marked, that but little time is commonly allowed by the disease for an)' organic change in these organs; and, in subsequent cases, engorgement and swelling of the submaxillary and sublingual glands is several times recorded. The dissections of rabid animals afford no sup- port to his views. {Youait.) In several of his re- cords it is stated that the papillte upon the tongue were unusually prominent. The lungs were emphysematous in many cases, and.this symptom may be noticed in connection with an emphysematous swelling of the anterior part of the neck and chest, extending into the anterior me- diastinum, which was found in ten recorded cases, •and has given rise to various speculations. In one instance (Prof. Jackson's case) even the right arm \\'as involved. The emphysema has been con- nected with the oppression of breathing and respiratory spasm, which are notable symp toms of the disease, and attributed to rupture o the bronchus. But it has been observed to in- crease after death, and in one case, dissected by Dr. Brandreth, that ph3'sician inflated the luiiga in some degree by the vascularity of the bitten after death, and believed that he established thei