837 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. field tefore assistance can be rendered. How these vessels escape being wounded sometimes is a source of surprise amongst militar)' surgeons. This immunity from injury is partly due to the elasticity of their coats, but principally to the readj^ manner in which they can be pushed aside by the passing ball, owing to the loose areolar tissue which con- nects them together and to the surrounding stiuc- tures. I had a case of this kind under my care during the Crimean war, where a bullet passed be- tween the subclavian artery and vein without in- jury to either, at the point where these vessels pass over the upper edge of the first rib. In cases where a round shot or sabre injures or divides a large vessel, such as the carotid or femo- ral arterj', immediate death is almost alwaj's the consequence; some instances to the contrary, how- ever, are related, Larrey mentions a case in his Alemoires where the external carotid was divided at its point of sepnration from the internal; a soldier immediately applied pressure with his fingers, and Larrey's bandages eventually saved hira. Mr. Hennen speaks of an officer who was wounded in the carotid by an arrow, and who owed his life to similar assistance.] Wounds of the main arteries of the limbs or neck usually require both ends of the divided vessel to be secured with a ligature, if pressure fails to arrest the hceraorrhage. A ligature on the femoral arter}', however, may sufficiently check the current of blood through the popliteal artery to put a stop to ha;mor- rhage from a wound in it ; and though such practice in some other cases of wounded arteries is ineffi- cient, on account of the facility with which the blood passes through the anastomoses into the part of those vessels below the ligature (see Arteries), its general success, in gunshot wounds of the ham, is very encouraging, not only on account of the difficulties of taking up the popliteal artery it- self (difficulties ably depicted by Scarpa), but because laying open the inflamed and diseased parts would frequently have a fatid termination. Dnpuytren and Delpech, on the latter principle, have in several instances taken up the femoral ar- tery f r the stoppage of bleeding from the tibial arteries in compound fractures, and with complete success. In University College Hospital, I took up the popliteal artery for the suppres-ion of re- pe:ited and profuse hfeniorrhage from the posterior tibial artery, which had been divided in a lad, who, as he was cleaning a window, slipped, and h s leg passed through the glass, and the posterior soft parts were divided down to the bono. As the bleeding ceased, the wound was dressed, but, in consequence of returns of htcmorrhage, the house- surgeon made several unsuccessful attempts to secure the ends of the artery, and the wound had at length assumed a formidable appearance, with considerable swelling and tendency to gangrene. I therefore preferred tying the popliteal artery. The result was entirely successful, no recurrence of bleeding having been experienn<!d. At the same time, I would have surgeons ni'.vays recollect the important difference between an aneurism.il and a wounded artery ; for as, in the first case, there is no outlet for the blood, the transmission of this fluid into the part of the vessel below the ligature may keep up a pulsation in the tumor, and retard the cure of the disease, but is attended with no risk of hajmorrhnge; while the same free passage of the blood into the wounded portion of a large ar- tery would give rise to dangerous bleeding; and hence the general necessity of applying two liga- tures, one immediately above, the other below, the aperture in such a vessel. A single ligature on the brachial arteiy fails, as I had an opportunity of seeing in Holland, in a case of gunshot wound, where either that vessel, or the commencement of the radial or ulnar, gave way, on the loosening of the sloughs; and, as there was considerable swell- ing, oedema, and inflammation of the limb, threat- ening gangrene, the surgeon under whose care the patient was, deemed it right to perform ampu- tation. I should be sorry if these observations were to hold out any general encouragement of the wrong and dangerous practice of applying only one liga- ture above a wound in a large artery, or in any re- cent case oi false diffused aneurism. The remarks delivered above are chiefly intended to refer to gunshot wounds of the ham, with injury of the popliteal artery, and hsemorrhage first breaking out several days after the receipt of the wound, when all the parts behind the knee are enormously swollen, and in a state of inflammation and sup- puration. Here the hope of avoiding any addi- tional violence, or injury to the diseased parts behind the knee, may be a good reason -for taking the chance of stopping the bleeding by a ligature applied to the femoral artery ; a reason, however, which would not exist in the case of a recent wound of the popliteal artery with a knife. At the same time, I believe this means of checking the current of blood will not always suffice, and that occasionally either the dangerous expedient of cutting open the swelling in this diseased state of the ham, and of applying a ligature above and be- low the aperture in the popliteal artery, must una- voidably be encountered, or amputation performed. Why the first plan has answered in some cases, and not m others, may depend upon the size and con- dition of the wound, or opening in the artery, and, in examples of sloughing, upon the decree in which the tube of the vessel may have been closed by the adhesive inflammation. Some wrong conclusions may also have been made respecting the trunk of the vessel being wounded or opened, while in fact only a branch of it was concerned, [In quoting the following remarks from the ;5';(j-. gical History of the Crimemi IKa)-(p. 345), I would mention that they embody the acknowledged prac- tice for all military surgeons to follow, and that the cases referred to by Mr. Cooper are exceptional ones. " When an artery is primarily wounded and bleeds, it is presumed no surgeon will now dispute the propriety of tying both ends of the vessel at the wounded point. The late Mr. Guthrie has, however, laid it down that this is not to ba done unless it bleed, inasmuch as the hemorrhage once arrested may not be renewed." Gunshot wounds of arteries sometimes lay the foundation for false or varicose aneurism, llcnnen records a case where this condition followed a wound of the femoral, and in the ISidletin de la Factil/c de Mcdccine of Paris, another case is given in which it was the result of a wound of the carotid artery. A case occurred in the 4th Regiment before Sebasto^ pol of wound of the profunda femoris, two inches from its origin, which was followed by the forma- tion of an aneurism at the wounded point. Wounds of veins of the extremities or neck, how- ever large, may always be checked by properly ap. 3 H 3