S31 DISLOCATION. muscles are relaxed, and so also is the uninjured portion of the capsular ligament. Ho says that, occasionally, especially in women, ho has found it sufficient simply to elevate the arm without making any traction upon it, and then the hand being placed in the axilla as a precaution to prevent the bone slipping out again, he brings the elbow down to the side. In this proceeding, the head of the bone is probably brought to the level of the glenoid cavity, and is then replaced by the action of the muscles. In general, however, moderate extension, combined with the elevation, will be necessary. The mode of proceeding should be varied according to cir- cumstances. When the muscular development is not great, he contents himself with pressing the shoulder downwards with his left hand, and pull- ing upon the ai'm with his right. In more robust subjects, he makes them sit upon the ground ; the extension is thus more conveniently made ; and, if necessary, with both hands, while an assistant presses downwards upon the acromion. In a dis- location of eighteen days'standing, in an athletic in- dividual, he placed the patient in the recumbent position, then, having embraced the top of the ihoulder with a cloth, the two ends of which being brought downwards parallel with the trunk, were entrusted to two assistants, he effected the exten- sion himself with complete success. It must not be forgotten, that when the head of the bone has entered the glenoid cavity, it must be sustained in its posi- tion by the hand in the .ixilla while the arm is being brought down to the side. M. Malgaigne says, that he has never failed in this way to reduce the dislocation do^vnwards, when it was not more than of a few days' standing. The method of reduction by elevation of the arm is most applicable to those cases in which the dis- placement is directly downwards towards the axilla, less so to those in which the head of the bone has passed somewhat inwards as well. M. Velpeau was the first to establish this distinction, and M. Malgaigne has arrived at a like conclusion. The latter surgeon believes that extension combined with elevation of the arm is the best for the sub- coracoid and sub-glenoid dislocations ; but for the dislocation which he describes by the name of intr.a-coracoid, he prefers to make the extension horizontally. In these latter cases, in addition to the exttnsion, he employs the knee in the axilla as a fulcrum, over which the head of the bone can be tilted into its place. (Op. cit. p. 519, &c.) It will be remembered, that the three varieties of disloca- tion just alluded to were probably all included by Sir A. Cooper in his dislocation into the axilla.] Rednctioji of the dtslocatioji forwards.—When the head of the humerus is dislocated forwards, or under the middle of the clavicle, the reduction is more difficult than in any of the others, for the head of the bone is not only further away from the glenoid cavity, but it is also more firmly fixed in its new situation. In tiiis dislocation, Sir Astley Cooper recommends the elbow to be bent, to relax the biceps muscle, and the extension to bo made obliquely downwards and a little backwards ; for, if it bo made horizontally, the head of the os humeri is pulled against the coracoid process. In most instiinces of this kind, ho says, the plan of reduc- tion, by means of the heel in the axilla, will also succeed, care being taken to apply the foot rather more forward than in a dislocation into the axilla, 80 that it may press on the head of the bone. How- ever, when the dislocation has continued several days, he considers gradual extension with pulleys necessary. As soon as the head of the bone has been drawn below the level of the coracoid process, it is to be pressed backwards with the surgeon's heel or knee, and the elbow at the same moment pulled forwards. (Op. cit. p. 439.) When the head of the bone had deserted the axilla, and slipped under the pectoral muscle, Mr. Hey found, that it could be more readily brought back into the axilla by making the extension in the direction opposite to that in which it has passed from the axilla:—"This effect is often greatly promoted by making the extension with the arm elevated, as Mr. White has advised." (See Hey's Surgery, p. 298, ed. 2.) [It has been remarked, however, that when the head of the bone is carried far forwards under the pectoral muscle, traction in the vertical direction, after the method of White, by putting this muscle on the stretch, rather tends to close the passage by which the head of the bone should return to its place, and so interferes with the reduction. M. Velpeau, in a case in which he failed twice to effect reduction by raising the arm, succeeded immediately by making the extension obliquely downwards. A similar success was obtained by M. Maisonneuve in a case under M. Velpeau, who therefore came to the conclusion that the extension should be first made obliquely downwards, and then horizontally. The advice given by M. Malgaigne coincides pretty closely with what has just been stated. This surgeon does not consider the vertical mode of making extension as applicable to the dis- location at present under consideration, (See Traite des Fract, ^c, t. ii. p. 527.)] In ilie partial dislocation, or that where the head of the bone lies at the scapular side of the coracoid process, the mode of reduction is the same as that employed in the complete dislocation forwards; but it is necessai'y to draw the shoulder backwards ; and as soon as the reduction is accomplished, the bone is to be kept from slipping forwards again by maintaining the shoulders in that position with a bandage, (Sir Astley Cooper, op. cit. p. 449.) The elbow and fore-arm should also be supported, as much forward as possible, in a sling. Redticlion of the dislooalion backwards.—The dislocation on the dorsum of the scapula appears, from some cases in Sir Astley Cooper's work, to be reducible by nearly the same mode of exten- sion as that employed for the reduction of the dislocation in the axilla. Mr. Coley, of Bridge- north, who met with two cases of luxation back- wards, advises the reduction to be effected by elevating the arm, and rotating it outwards, so as to roll the head of the humerus towards the axilla, when it is to be kept in this position while the arm is brought down into a horizontal direction: on the extending force being now applied, the bono is easily reduced. (Op. cit. p, 414.) In one case in the Middlesex Hospital, " the patient was seated on the ground, with the sound side close to a wall, iy which was a staple on a level with the shoulder, to which the apparatus hu- fixing the trunk and scapula was attached. Extension was made by two men by means of a cloth attached to the humerus, the direction of which was forwards, outwards, and a little upw.irds, the surgeon stand- ing behind the patient, and retaining tlio scapula li-oni yielding forwards. After hanging on for n SI 2