niid applies his other hand to the acromion. The nrm is then drawn down over the knee, and the head of the bone returns into its place. (0« Dislocations, p. 432.) When the muscles are very powerful, or the displacement has continued several days, Sir Astley Cooper, instead of the treatment by the heel in the axiUa, recommends the patient'to be put npon a chair, and the scapula to be fixed by means of a bandage, which allows the arm to pass through it, and is buckled on the top of the acromion so that it cannot slip downward. A wetted roller is next applied round the arm, just above the elbow, and over the roller a strong worsted tape, fixed with what the sailors term the dovc-ldkh knot. The arm should now be raised to a right angle with the body; and, if much difficulty be experienced, even above the horizmttal line, iti order to relax more completely the deltoid and siipra-spinaiiis muscles. Two persons are then to pull tlie worsted tape, and two the scapula bandage, in opposite directions, with a steady, equal, and combined force. After the extension has been kept up a few minutes, the surgeon is to place the knee in the axilla, with his foot resting upon the patient's chair; he now raises his knee, while he pushes the acromion down- wards and inwards, and the head of the bone usually slips into the glenoid cavity. Sometimes, Sir Astley Cooper has seen a gentle rotatory mo- tion of the limb, made during the extension, bring about the reduction. In old cases, and others attended with great difficulty from the powerful contraction of the muscles, Sir Astley prefers making the extension with pulleys, because with them, when the resist- ance is likely to be long, jerks and unequal force are more likely to be avoided than in the preceding method of reduction; and the assistants less apt to be fatigued. The patient sits between two staples, which are screwed into the sides of the room; the bandages are then applied precisely in the same way as when the extension is made without pulleys; and the force is applied in the same direction. The surgeon is to pull the cord of the pulleys gently and steadily imtil pain is complained of, when he is to maintain the exten- sion already made, but not increase it. In two or three minutes, more force should be applied and very gently increased, until pain be again com- plained of, when another stop should be made. The surgeon should proceed in this way for a quarter of an hour, at intervals slightly rotating the limb. When the extension seems great enough, an assistant should hold the cord of the pulleys, and keep up the degree of extension, while the surgeon puts his knee into the axilla, and resting his foot upon the chair, gently raises and pushes back the head of the bone towards the glenoid cavity, into which it generally returns without the snap usually heard wlicn the reduction is effected by other means. Sir Astley Cooper precedes the use of the pulleys with venesection, the warm bath, and a grain of tartarised antimony every ten mi- nutes, until faintness is produced. (O/i Disloca- tions, p. 942.) [This plan of counteracting muscular resistance is no longer adopted in the present day. In all old cases, and in recent ones when the resistance of the muscles is great, chloroform should be admi- nistered, and its full effect should be obtained before the surgeon commences his operations. partial influence of chloroform is almost invariably pro- nON. S29 ductive of muscular contraction, and is therefore worse than useless. According to Mr. Skey, there is no reason why the principle of the heel in the axilla, of which he approves strongly, should not be applied con- jointly with the use of pulleys. For this purpose, he " employs a well-padded iron knob, which may represent the heel, from which there extend laterally two strong straight branches of the same metal, each ending in a bulb or ring of about four inches in length, the office of which is designed to keep the margins of the axilla'as free from pressure as possible ; for what operation can be more absurd than the endeavour to fix the scapula by means of girds carried round the shoulder, in which we in- clude the margins of this cavity, viz.: the pec- toralis major and the latissimus dorsi, as in a vice, and by which we endeavour to drag up the arm, at the same instant that we malce the most strenuous efforts to drag it doion hy a yet inferior force ? It is of the utmost importance to have the margins of the axilla untrammelled, in order that the bone be allowed to descend unchecked, at least by our own agency. The iron knob should be passed high up into the axilla, and attached to the cord fastened into a staple. The person of the patient should be placed on the back, or inclined over on to the opposite side, and the cords passed up on each side of the shoulder, one in front and the other behind the joint; the arm should be drawn downwards, as neaTly as possible parallel to, and in contact with, the body. Extension should be made from the wrist, and, especially in old cases, continued gra- dually. As the humerus descends the scapula will roll forwards, and the glenoid cavity, instead of starting away from the head of the humerus, will be directed downwards towards it, in the axillary cavity, or equally so when imder the pectoral muscle ; and although I have never employed the same means in reducing dislocation on the dorsum scapulas, 1 have no doubt of its power to accomplish it." (Op. Stirg. p. 87.)] In Dublin, the extending power is applied to the wrist, as in France and Germany. {Ph. Cramp- ton, Dull. Jour. vol. iii. p. 182.) This gentleman also expresses a doubt about the possibility or ad- vantage of fixing the scapula. [Mr. Vincent appears to think that the extension, as usually practised, is often unnecessary, even in old cases. According to him, " it is not by the force of extension, but by the adaptation of appropri- ate manipulation, that old cases are to be reduced." Thus, in a case in which the head of the humerus had been luxated seven weeks, and extension liad been conducted in the usual way for a long time and with the fullest force, without eff'ect, Jic drew Iheliml) across the chest obliquely, and by this means returned the head of the bone into the glenoid cavity with very little effort. In another case of six weeks' standing, after having tried tlie usual plan in vain ; by first drawing the arm down, and then carrying it across the chest over the body, the bone slipped easily into its place. (See his Obs. on some parts of Snrgical Practice, p. 27, London, 1847.) In these cases, however, the adhesions had probably been broken down by the extension previously practised ; and it may bo doubted whe- ther, had this not been the case, the reduction would have taken place so easily as it did.] For the purpose of preventing the liead of the bone from slipping out of its place again, the arm should bo kept for some days quiet, the elbow M U