ERYSIPELAS. G37 his death, extensive suppurations were discovered along the back and loins, from the neck to tho ' sacrum. (Quoted from Gibson, Edinhuvijh Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iii. p. AG.) That erysipelatous inflammation of the throat and fauces has a common origin with the other raem- ! bera of the alliance, may be seen from incidental notices of sore throat ill the preceding cases. It is proved more fully b)' the reports of several epide- mics, collected by Mr. Nuniieley, in which the association of livid, or dusky, or sloughing, or croupy sore throats with erysipelas, and their ultimate origin from the same causes, is plainly set forth. (Op. cit. p. 107, &c.) See also case of erysipelas of the mucous membrane of the throat, fatal from submucous serous infiltration, with false membrane, andevidentlyepidemic,ifnot contagiou3,(in Travers, Furtlier Enquiry^ljonA. 1835, p. IGO.) See also the case of a young man, nursing his mother ill of erysi- pelatous sore throat, when he was smitten with an offensive fume, and was seized with diffuse cellular inflammation of the trunk, of which he died. {Graves's Clinical Medicine.) In fact, there is no lesion common to the pycBinia group which may not be met with in erysipelas. Mr. P. H. Bird {On the Nature, Statistics, ^c. 4'C. of Erysipelas, Lend. 1858) met with sore throat in 60 per cent, of the cases of idiopathic erysipelas of which he has notes. Dr. Gross {System of Surgery, Philadelphia, 1859) says that in 1844, '45, and '46, the disease was so common in the Louisville Hospital, and also throughout the city of Louisville, that no operations were performed save of necessity. Whole families were sometimes cut down by it. Every case of disease admitted into the Louisville Hospital re- ceived its peculiar impression, and " wore its livery." When the affection was at its height, many patients convalescing from other diseases were suddenly seized with diarrhcea, pneumonia, and bronchitis, over which, the usual remedies exer- cised no control. Dr. Gross also describes a peculiar and most fatal epidemic of erysipelas which prevailed from 1842 ■ to 1847 in various parts of the United States, par- ■ ticularly the south-western, and in Canada. It was known by the names, " black tongue," "swelled head," and "erysipelatous fever." It began in the throat, with a deep red glossy swell- ing, which extended to tongue, uvula, tonsils, and face, which was most hideously swollen and dis- torted. Delirium and prostration accompanied it from the first. Some died early; others from local sloughing; others from'pyffiniia and abscesses in the lungs and other parts; if lying-in women were at- tacked, they usually exhibited high evidence of metritis, peritonitis, and phlebitis. In one in- stance, the immediate cause of death was a large abscess in the left lung, erysipelas being seated in the corresponding leg. The following example of the connection of pyrcmia and phlebitis with diffuse inflammation and phlegmasia dolens is most instructive. It is taken from Trarcrs, Constitutional Irrilation, Lond. ] 820, p. .^74. Mrs. C, xt 40, mother of a family, and suckling, complained on r2th October, 1825, of rednes"! and pain of the knuckle of her middle finger, and slight fever. A slight recent wound on the metacarpus. On the I4th, pain and heat all up' the'arm and neck. Slight fulness and tender- ness above clavicle. That night delirium. 16th. Violent delirium ; fulness and tension over fiexor tendon of middle finger ; which was laid open and yielded a teaspoonful of healthy pus. " There was no absorbent nor glandular inflammation, nor any cutaneous blush, but a little more fulness from the elbow upwards, and about the subclavian region, than on the opposite side." Bleeding to 20 oz.: ten gr. of calomel, epsora salts, and jalap. The blood was slightly buffed and cupped. At night anti- mony and laudanum. I9th. No rest ; delirium unabated. Two or three faint lines of inflamed absorbents on forearm, which was puff)', and tender when grasped. Pulse very rapid. Bleeding to 12 02., " which occasioned a sensible depression;" more calomel and salts ; opium at night. 20th. More tranquil; pulse as rapid, but softer; leeches and anodynes. 21st. Hysterical and feeble, but tran- quil and rational. 22nd. A quiet but sleepless night ; profuse sweating; bark and acid. Up to 25th seemed improving, though the pulse remained at 130 and upwards ; great nervous debility; bark and opium, and a moderate quantity of wine, which was " withdrawn because it seemed to overstimu- late." 28th. A violent rigor, followed by profuse colliquative sweating. 29th. Another rigor. 31st. Death. The wound in the finger continued to dis- charge freely, and the hand was free from pain. On post-mortem examination, a small quantity of pus found in the tendinous sheath of the forearm; a straw- coloured serum exuded into the upper arm; the humeral and axillary vein plugged with coagulura. The viscera not examined. The maid servant who fomented Mrs. C.'s hand suffered from abscesses in the hand and forearm, and above the inner condyle of the humerus : rest- lessness, delirium, and phlegmasia dolens of both legs. The laundress who washed Mrs. C.'s sheets, in opening them, turned pale as death and complained instantly of pain in the axilla. Nausea; faintness, rigors and delirium followed ; and a deep and ex- tensive abscess above the left breast. If we recur to that remarkable series of cases which occurred in the Plymouth dockyard, we shall see that out of the fifteen patients, each of them suf- fered evidently from the same cause ; two died from intense fever, without adequate local change to c.iuse death ; ten had symptoms of phlegmonous ery- sipelas, or of the diffused inflammation locally ; and three died of visceral or distant disease, without local symptoms at the spot by which the poison entered the veins. From one and tho same poison- ous source, whatever that was, every variety of erysipelatous disease proceeded. ICvery feature of pyremia and puerperal fever was produced. We have thus laboured to show, that the " irri- tation " of Hunter and Travers, and the " constitu- tional susccptibiliti/" and " dkordav of tho cln-lo- poictic viscera " of Aberncthy, are figures of speech, which, in modern language, are rendered by the term impurity of the blood. And in the mass of evi- dence we liave presented of the origin and alliances of erysipelas, we have shown how tho simpler cases arise from the common causes of illness, espe- cially if aided by cold, or blight, as it was'called in Sydenham's time, and that tho deviation from the stlienic, or healthy adhesive inflammation may be slight ; whilst the graver cases arise from the workings of a putrid poison. Here the^ question arises, will any putrescent matter sufficeor is there anything spocijic in the cause of