ANEU the distressing sensations in the affected arm : ^ relief, however, was of short duration." The pulsation of the radial artery of the affected ,i;in gradually became more obscure, and soon after either ceased, or was lost in the oedema of the forearm and hand. On the evening of the twelfth day, a dark spot appeared on the centre of the tumor, surrounded by inflammation, which threatened a more extensive destruction of the skin. A further postponement of the operation being deemed inadmissible, Mr. Ramsden per- formed it the next day in the following manner : a transverse incision was made through the skin and platysma rayoides, along and upon the upper edge of the clavicle, about two inches and a half in length, beginning towards the outer border of the trapezius, and terminating about half an inch within the outward edge of the sterno-cleido-mas- toideus muscle. " This incision divided a small superficial artery, which was directly secured. The skin, above the clavicle, being then pinched up between my own thumb and finger and those of an assistant, I divided it from within, outwards and upwards, in the line of the outward edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle, to the extent of two inches. " My object, in pinching up the skin for the second incision, was to expose at once the super- ficial veins, and, by dissecting them carefully from the cellular membrane, to place them out of my way, without wounding them. This provision proved to be useful, for it rendered the flow of blood during the operation very trifling compa- ratively with what might otherwise have been ex- pected ; and thereby enabled me with the greatest facility to bring into view those parts which were to direct me to the artery. " My assistant having now lowered the shoulder, for the purpose of placing the first incision above the clavicle (which I had designedly made along and upon that bone), I continued the dissection with my scalpel, until I had distinctly brought into sight the edge of the anterior scalenus muscle, im- mediately below the angle, which is formed by the traversing belly of the omo-hyoideus, and the edge of the stemo-cleido-niastoideus ; and having placed my finger on the artery, at the point where it pre- sents itself between the scaleni, 1 found no difficulty in tracing it without touching any of the nerves to the lower edge of the upper rib, at which part I detached it with my finger nail for the purpose of applying the ligature. " Here, however,arose an embarrassment, which (although I was not unprepared for it) greatly exceeded my expectation. I had learned, from repeatedly performing tliis operation, many years since, on the dead subject, that to pass the ligature under the subclavian artery, with the needle com- monly used in aneurisms, would he impracticalile; I had, therefore, provided myself with instruments of various forms and curvatures to meet the diffi- culty, each of which most readily conveyed the ligature underneath the artery, but would serve me no further ; for, being made of solid materials, and fixed into handles, they would not allow of their points being brought up again at the very short curvature which the narrowness of the space between the rib and the clavicle afforded, and which, in this particular case, was rendered of un- usual depth, by the previous elevation of the shoulder by the tumor. RISM. 203 "After trying various means to overcome this difficulty, a probe of ductile metal was at length handed me, which I passed under the artery ; and bringing up its point with a pair of small forceps, I succeeded in passing the ligature, and then tied the subclavian artery at the part where I had previously detached it for that purpose. The drawing of the knot was unattended with pain, the woimd was closed by the dry suture, and the patient was then returned to his bed." (See Practical Obs. on the Sclerocele, djc. io which are added four Cases of' Operation for Aneurisms, p. 276, &c.) Immediately the artery was tied, the pulsation of the swelling ceased ; the arm of the same side continued to be freely supplied with blood, and was even rather warmer than the opposite arm ; the operation, which was severe from the length of time it took up, was followed by considerable indisposition ; the patient died about five days after its performance ; after the artery had been tied, the oedema of the arm and the aneurismal tumor partly subsided ; and on examination after death, nothing but the vessel was found included in the ligature. In Mr. Ramsden's publication are descriptions of instruments which will be of great service to any future performer of this operation. The chief one is a needle, resembling that which was invented and used by Desault, and of which I have already endeavoured to give an idea. By means of this or other instruments already specified, I conceive, that the main difficulty of the operation will in future be avoided. Had Mr. Ramsden had its assistance, his patient would have been de- tained a very little time in the operating theatre, and the event of the case might have been com- pletely successful. Having witnessed all the cir- cumstances of the case, the inference that I drew from them was, that, if the operation could have been done in a moderate time, which now seems practicable with the aid of some kind of aiguille a ressort, or even without it in most examples, the case in all probability would have ended well. The preceding case is particularly memorable, as being the first instance in which the subclavian artery was scientifically tied, without any random thrust of a needle, and without the inclusion of any part besides the artery in the ligature. It furnished encouragement to repeat the experiment • held out the hope, that axillary .aneurisms might be cured as well as inguinal ones ; and confirmed the competency of the anastomosing arteries to nourish the whole upper extremity, when the sub- clavian is tied where it emerges from behind the anterior scalenus muscle. In the year 1811, the subclavian artery was tied in the London Hospital, in n case of axillary aneurism, by Sir W. Blizard, who found no diffi- culty in getting the ligature under the artery with a common aneurism-needle. A single liga- ture was applied. At first, hopes of recovery were entertained ; but the patient, who was old and de- bilitated, afterwards sunk, and died on the fourth day. (See Hodgson's Treatise, p, 375.) In the year UUr), Mr. Thomas Blizard tied the subclavian artery in the same Hospital. The case was an aneurism in the left axilla, and, like all the other examples of this kind upon record was attended with great pain in the tumor and limb. There was no pulse in tlie left radial artery,