by making him to submit to amputation. It must ' Pott, who says that he has often seen the experi- be remembered, however, that the bones are ge- nerally shattered, and reduced into numernus fragments ; the muscles and tendons are unequally divided, and their ends torn and contused. Now, none of the old surgeons questioned the absolute necessity of extracting the splinters of bone, and cutting away the irregular extremities of the ten- dons and muscles, which operations would require a longer time than amputation itself. Besides, we should recollect that, by making the incision above the injured part, so as to be enabled to cover the bone with flesh and integuments perfectly free from injury, the extent of the wound is so diminished, that the healing can be accomplished in one third of the time which would otherwise be requisite, and a much firmer cicatrix is also ob- tained. Such reflections must convince us that amputation here holds forth great advantages. It canpot increase the patient's danger ; and as for the momentary augmentation of pain which he suffers, he is amply compensated. (See G unshot Wounds.) 4. Mortification. Mortification is another cause, which, when advanced to a certain degree, renders amputation indispensably proper. We have noticed, that bad compound fractures, and wounds, often ter- minate in the death of the injured limb. In such cases, there can bfe no doubt that the operation is generally the safest and most advantageous measure. Nay, there are, as we shall presently see, certain forms of mortification, in which the early performance of amputation is the only chance of saving the patient. Practitioners have entertained very opposite opinions concerning the period when one should operate in cases of mortification. Some pretend that whenever the disorder presents itself, and es- pecially when it is the effect of e-tternal violence, we should amputate immediately the mortification has decidedly begun to form, and while the mis- chief is in a spreading state. Others believe that the operation should never be undertaken before the progress of the disorder has stopped, even not ^ till the dead parts have begun to separate from the ' living ones. The advocates for the speedy performance of amputation declare, that the further progress of the mortification may be stopped, and the life of 1 the patient preserved, by cutting above the parts affected. However, according to the reports of 1 the greater number of eminent surgical writers, ' this practice is highly dangerous, and undeserving of confidence. Whatever pains m.iy be taken, in • the operation, only to divide sound parts, there is ' no certainty of succeeding in this object, and the • most skilful practitioner may be deceived. The skin may appear to be perfectly sound and free from inflammation, while the muscles which it covera, and the parts immediately surrounding the bone, may actually be in a gangrenous state. But even when tlie soft parts are found free from ap- liparont distemper on making the incision, still, if the operator should not have waited till the mor- tification has ceased to spread, the stump will al- iraost always be attacked by gangrene. Surgeons '■who have had opportunities of frequently seeing 'Wounds which have a tendency to mortify, enter- tain the latter opinion. Such was the sentiment of AMPUTATION. 51 ment made, of amputating a limb in which gan- grene had begun to show itself, but never saw it succeed, and it invariably hastened the patient's death. The operation may be postponed, however, too long. Mr. S. Sharp, in particular, recommended too much delay, advising the operation never to be un- dertaken till the natural separation of the mortified parts had considerably advanced. Mr. Sharp was a surgeon of immense experience, and his autho- rity carries with it the greatest weight. But, per- haps, he was too zealous in his opposition to a practice, the peril of which he had so often beheld. When the mortification has ceased to spread, there is no occasion for further delay. We now obtain, just as certainly, all the benefits of the operation, and get rid of a mass of putridity, the exhalations fi-om which poison the atmosphere which the pa- tient breathes, and are highly detrimental to his health. Nay, patients in these circumstances may actually fall victims to the absorption of putrid matter. However, this danger would not be so considerable as that which would arise from too precipitate an operation ; and it is better to dei'er amputation a little more than is absolutely requisite, than run any risk of performing the operation be- fore it is certain that the parts have lost their ten- dency to gangrene. In the article Mortification, we have noticed particular cases of gangrene, where, the surgeon is not to wait for the line of separation being formed, but have recourse to the immediate performance of amputation. The experience of Mr. Lawrence and several cases which I saw in the British mili- tary hospitals during the last war, tend to confirm the propriety of such practice. (See Medico-CMr. Trans, vol. vi. p. 156, &c.) In an example, where a large part of the arm was deeply affected with gangrene from external violence^ and the disorder was yet making rapid progress, I once recommended the performance of amputation at the shoulder-joint. On the whole, this instance was fav(mrable to the practice; for, though the patient died at the end of a fort- night, probably he would not have lived twenty- tour hours, had the operation not been done ; nor was the stump attacked with mortification, — a circumstance worthy of attention, because it is a danger particularly insisted upon by the opponents of amputation under the preceding circumstances • and, h;id it not been for a large abscess, which formed in the back, as was supposed, from a vio- lent blow received in the fall which produced the origiiuil injury, there were well-grounded hopes of recovery. There is likewise a species of gangrene, which IS pointed out by Mr. Guthrie, as requiring early amputafon. "A soldier (says ho) shall receive a flesh-wound from a musket-ball in the middle of the thigh, which passes through the limb ap- !>arently, on a superficial inspection, without in- ,)i|nng the main artery ; or it shall pass close l,c- "ud the femur, where the artery turns to the tJack part of the bone ; or it may go through the middle of the bono, from behind forwards, between the condyles of the femur, into the knee-joint, ami the patient sliall walk to the surgeon with littlo assistance, bo superficially dressed, and, in many cases, considered slightly wounded ; yet the fe- moral artery and vein, in the whole of these cases, E 2