G96 broiight about even without actiug directly on the B a ofthe racture,by employing'the lo.4 frag- ment as a lever, aud applying an apparatus, cal- culated to incline it in the direction thdt will bring It mto a better position with respect to the upper fragment. {Dupnyiren, Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 147.) I he apparatus should be put on more tightly than m a recent stage of fracture ; but the manner in which the limb bears the pressure must be vigi- lantly attended to. So long as the deformity is not entirely corrected, the apparatus should be opened every third or fourth day, and fresh but gentle attempts at reduction made. Every little improvement made by each manual interference 13 then to be secured by means ofthe bandage and apparatus. In this way the natural shape of the limb will be gradually restored. The plan is not, liowever, to be continued too long, as it would altogether prevent union of the bone. Another maxim_laid down by Dupuytrenis, that, when the delormity has been considerable, the treatment alter its removal should be continued as long as if the case were a recent fracture. (Cliti. Chir t. iv p. 146—151.) _ '^hQ provisional callus, then, differs from the defi- nitive, not only in point of situation and time of its iprmation, and continuance, but in its inferior con- sistence and solidity. When completed, it only possesses the strength necessary to resist the mo- derate action of the muscles, and to support a cer- tain weight. Nay, after the removal ofthe splints. It will sometimes yield to these forces, especially in oblique fractures. The support of the provisional callus is frequently overcome by a blow or rough use of the limb. Sometimes it is weakened or destroyed by the in> fluence of constitutional diseases, fever, &c. The definiiive callus, though less bulkj', is Larder, stronger, and more compact than the pro- visional. Hence, after the definitive callus has been completed, bones rarely or never break in the exact situation of the former fracture. Excepting in very aggravated forms of scurvy, I believe that the definitive callus is hardly ever disorgan- ised and destroyed by the effects of constitutional diseases. When the two ends of a fracture are in contact only at a point, it is here alone that the definitive callus can be produced; but, as a compensation, the external or provisional callus is then never entirely absorbed. In fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, en- tirely within the capsular ligament, the provisional callus cannot reach the fracture, and, if bony union follow, it is effected by a process within the bone Itself. _" The instances (says Mr. Mayo) in which union is effected through a process originating in the bone itself, are fractures of the cranium, and of the neck of the thigh-bone, within the capsular ligament. In the first of these cases no provisional ca us is formed : in the second, the provisional callus has no means of reaching the fracture. It 18 difficult to explain why a' provisional callus does not form about fractures of the crania! Dones. ^ The physical cause of this negative pheno- menon IS not known. The final cause, however, IS evident. If a hard swelling, such as a provisional caims, we,e stretched as aridge along the inner aspect r-.,n; • it ^vould encroach upon the o lie ■ Ln,r^? "■'"i ''f "»P'^e!=^' ^V^-V^y, or some otiiei loan of cerebral disorder would attend the FRACTURE. cure of every fracture of the skull. No callus therefore IS formed. But the fracture, after a time shows a disposition to unite through forces inherent m the bone itself, &c. In a fissure of the skull examined some months after the injury, the onlv change apparent is the rounding of the edges ex- ternally. After a year or two the fissure is united at Its internal or cerebral aspect. After the lapse ol many years the narrowest part of the fissure is entirely filled up. In persons who have lived ten, twenty, or fifty years, after loss of portions of the cranium the slow restoration of the bone appears to have been progressive for the whole period In litty years, a trephine hole is neaily closed by the shelving growth of bone from the margin towards the centre." (See Mayors Outlines of Human PatMogij, p. 8.) The causes of the difficulty of bringing about osseous union in such fracturw ot the neck of the femur as are entirely within the capsular ligament, will be hereafter considered. VV hen the ends of a fracture only touch laterally as I have stated, there is strictly no provisional cal- lus. The vessels of the adjoining cellular tissue, muscles and other textures, here greatly assist iii the work of reparation. The side of one fragment becomes soldered to that of the other, and here the callus is permanent, or never removed. In such a case there is no internal cj'lindrical ossification ; no clieville, as the French term it; because it would evidently be of no service. In compound fractures, followed by suppuration, the bones remain disunited for many weeks. Here also no provisional callus is formed. The ends of the bones soften and granulate, and, in proportion as the secretion of pus subsides, the granulations begin to deposit the osseous matter, which is to constitute the uniting medium. This part of the subject was explained many years ago by John Hunter and the late Mr. Wilson. {On the Skeleton, Diseases of Bones, ^c. p. 233, 8vo. also Diet, des Sciences Med. t. xxxviii. p. 486.) Fractures of the patella, olecranon, condyles of femur, coronoid process ofthe uhia, acromion, and coronoid process of the jaw, are generally united by a ligamentous substance. Broken cartilages, the cartilages of the ribs especially, and in some instances the thyroid or cricoid cartilages, do not unite by cartilage, but by means of osseous matter, deposited around the solution of continuitj-, in the manner of a provisional callus, which, however, is here permanent. As the provisional callus in adults never begins to ossify before the tenth da}', we know that, if great inflammation or other causes forbid the ap- plication of mechanical means during this period, no permanent deformity will be the result of defer- ring the employment of splints, bandages, &c. On this principle, and with the view of letting the limb get into a more favourable state to bear the pres- sure of mechanical means, some surgeons do not usually apply any apparatus during this stage. In iiifancj', however, where the callus is completed with surprising quickness, it is desirable always to set the fracture without delay. [The more recent investigations of j\Ir. Stan- ley and Mr. Paget have led them to form conclusions on the subject of the union of frac- tured bones somewhat different from those of Dupuytreii, and especiallj' as regards the formation of provisional callus in the human subject. Mr. Stanley, while admitting and confirming the views