722 FHAC lower end as to admit of the elbow being firmly fixed to it, while at its upper end is a crutch which fits underneath the axilla, and which slides up and down by means of a screw. By screwing the crutch upwards, so as to press against the axilla, while the elbow is firmly fixed to the lower end of the apparatus, permanent extension may be kept up. Anterior, posterior, and external splints may be applied at the same time as usual. (See Lons- dale, On Fractures, p. 173.) In all fractures of the humerus it is desirable to retain the arm in con- tact with the side, by a few turns of a roller round the body.] Fractures of the lower extremity of the humerus. [The injuries occurring to this portion of the bone may be divided into—\.'Fracture just above the condyles ; 2. Fracture of the internal condyle ; 3. Fracture of the exlenial condyle. 1. Fracture just above the condyles is most fre- quently caused by a blow or by a fall on the elbow, but it is occasionally the result of a fall on the palm of the hand, by whicli the bones of the fore- arm are forcibly driven against the lower end of the humerus. This accident is often met with in children, but, in them it is not, strictly speaking, a fracture, but a separation of the epiphysis from the shaft of the bone, which usually takes place. In most cases, the lower fragment is drawn up- wards behind the shaft of the bone by the action of the triceps extensor on the olecranon process, and an unnatural prominence is thereby produced at the posterior aspect of the arm, which, without due caution, might cause the injury to be mistaken for a dislocation of the bones of the forearm back- wards. This displacement will be produced all the more readily if the direction of the fracture happen to be oblique downwards and forwards, which Sir A. Cooper thinks is most frequently the case. The fracture may be distinguished from the dislocation by the greater mobility of the arm, and by the crepitus which its movement will pro- duce in the fracture, also a moderate degree of force will remove the deformity, but it returns as soon as the extension is discontinued; whereas, in dislocation, much greater force is required, but after it has been reduced, the displacement has no disposition to recur. In addition to these dis- tinctions, M. Malgaigne observes, that however much the olecranon may project posteriorlj^ it is never more distant from the condyles than natural, if it be a fracture, but is far removed from them in dislocation; and that in fracture, the counter- projection in the front of the arm is less broad and more rounded, and is situated above the bend of the elbow, while in luxation it is below it; also, that in measuring the arm from the acromion to the condyles, there is a shortening in fracture which does not exist in dislocation. {Traili des Frac- tures, Sfo. vol. i. p. 554.) In all cases where the fracture is transverse, or oblique in the direction indicated by Sir A. Cooper, the rule above laid down respecting the displace- ment of the fragments will be found to hold good ; an occasional exception ma.y, however, be met witli when the bone has been broken obliquely in the opposite direction, namely, downwards and back- wards, since it is tlien almost impossible for the lower piece to pass behind the upper. M. Malgaigne relates an instance of this obli- quity, in which the upper piece descended behind the lower, and became lodged against the summit of the olecranon beneath the insertion of the ex- tensor tendon. (Op. cit. p, 663.) This case well exemplifies the manner in which the oblique direction of a fracture may modify the displacement which the action of the muscles would otherwise tend to produce. A modification of this accident, first noticed by Desault, is sometimes met with, in which the frac- ture above described, is complicated by a longi- tudinal division separating the condyles, and ex- tending do^vnwards into the elbow-joint, so that there will be three separate pieces of bone and two fractures. The fracture of the condyles may be more or less oblique, and the pieces may be equal or un- equal in size.] In this complication the deformity is greater, and the fractured part is more movable. When pressure is made, either before or behind, on the track of the longitudinal fracture, the two condyles, becoming further separated from each other, leave a fissure between them, and the fractured part is widened. On taking hold of the condyles, and moving them in different directions, a distinct crepitus is perceived. [In all fractures in the immediate vicinity of the elbow, swelling rapidly supervenes, and unless the part can be examined very shortly after the acci- dent, there may be great difficulty in forming an exact diagnosis.] Treatment.—The treatment advised by Sir Astley Cooper, consists in bending the arm, drawing it for- wards so as to reduce the parts, aud then applying a roller. The best splint for this case is one formed at right angles, the upper portion of it being placed behind the upper arm, and the lower under the forearm. He also directs the application of a splint to the fore part of the upper arm. The splints are to be fixed with straps; evaporating lotions used ; and the arm kept in a bent position in a sling. In a fortnight, if the patient be young, and, in three weeks, if he be an adult, passive motion may be gently employed for the purpose of hindering ankylosis. {On Dislocations, ^c. p. 464.) When there is also a fracture through tho condyles into the elbow joint, the detached frag- ments being drawn in opposite directions by the muscles of the arm and foreann, commonly re- main unmoved between these two powers, and are but little displaced. External force may, however, put them out of their proper situation, and they may then be displaced forward or backward, or they ma}' separate from each otlier sideways, leaving an interspace between them. Hence, the apparatus should resist them in these four directions; and this object is easih' accom- plished by means of four splints, kept on with a roller. The two lateral splints are particularly necessary, when the condyles are separated from the body of tho bone, with an interspace between them. If one of them be still continuous with the humerus, no splint on this side will bo requisite. [Even when there is no separation, its occurrence should be provided against by a moderate degree of lateral compression, though the side splints may not then be required. For this purpose, a ban- dage round the elbow, applied before the antero- po'storior splints are adjusted, will generally be found sufficient. Often, when there is much swell-