FRACTURE. 761 degree. (See Earle's Practical Ols. in Surgery, p. 1-25, &c. 8vo. Loud. 1823.) [For a detailed account of the various modifica- 1 tions which have been devised in the long splint, , and also in the double inclined plane, see Dr. . Hamilton, Treatise on Fractures, 4*0. The long splint is employed very generally in I this country, both in hospital and private practice. Mr. Erichsen, however, states that he has treated : many fractured thighs, both in adults and children, Ly means of the starched bandage, without con- finement to bed for more than three or four days, and without the slightest shortening or deformity being left. The following is the plan which he recommends :—A dry roller should be applied to the whole of the limb evenly and neatly, which must then be covered with a thick layer of wad- ding ; a long piece of strong pasteboard, about four inches wide, soaked in starch, must next be ap- plied to the posterior part of the limb, from the nates to the heel. If the patient is very muscular, and the thigh large, this must be strengthened, especially at its upper part, by having slips of bandage pasted upon it. Two narrower strips of pasteboard are now placed along either side of the limb, from the hip to the ankle, and another shorter piece on the fore part of the thigh. A double layer of starched bandage should now be applied over the whole, with a strong and well- starched spica. It should be cut up and trimmed on the second or third day, and then re-applied in the usual way. The points to be especially at- tended to are that the back pasteboard splint be very strong, at the upper part especially, and that the spica be well and firm!}- applied, so that the hip and the whole of the pelvis be immoveably fixed. {Science and Art of Surgery, ed. 3, 1861. p. 247.) Most surgeons will, we think, be re- luctant to trust to the starched apparatus, to retain the fracture in apposition from so early a period, though it may be used with advantage after a lapse of three or four weeks. When the fracture is oblique, which in the adult is most frequently the case, it is very difficult, even with the advantage of permanent extension carefully and systematically kept up, to prevent some over riding of the frac- tured ends, and consequent shortening of the limb. M. Malgaigne is of opinion that, unless the fracture is transverse, and the displaced fragments can be brought together end to end, so as to oppose them- selves to the action of the muscles, it is impossible to preserve to the limb its normal length, whatever apparatus or method may be applied. (Traitc dcs Fract. S^c. t. i. p. 723.) Many other surgeons of experience have expressed a similar opinion. Dr. Mason Warren, of Boston, U.S., says : " I have never yet seen an oblique fracture of the thigh in a patient over seventeen years of age, in which there was not some shortening. 1 have had cases shown to mo, in which it was averred that the limb was not shortened, but on measuring myself 1 have found the fact otherwise." In children, however, he believes that union without shortening may be accomplished. According to Ur. IJuck, of seventy- four cases of fractured femur of all ages, occurring in the New York Hospital, only nineteen resulted without any shortening, a proportion of about on(.'- fourth. The average shortening of the remaining fifty-five fractures was a fraction less than thrcc- fnurthsof an inch. (Sec Ilamiltnn, On Fract. p. '100.) In treating a fractured thigh, with the long splint or any of its various modifications, great care and attention is requisite, from day to daj', to see that no slipping or relaxation of the bandages has taken place. In the application of the bandages it is necessary to protect, with layers of cotton wool, those points on which the extending force must principally operate. From inattention to these points, patients often endure much unnecessary suifering from excoriation or even sloughs on the instep and ankle, and on the heel, if the weight of the limb be allowed to rest upon this part. The perinteura also requires to be well protected by cotton wool or soft pads, from the pressure of the counter extending foi'ce. If the case is properly looked after, it is quite possible to continue the ap- paratus for five or six weeks, without any excoria- tion or even soreness of the parts mentioned. Mr. Butcher's modification of the long splint is well calculated to keep the limb steady, and to prevent inversion or eversion of the foot, and also to protect the heel from pressure. (See Dublin Journal of Med. Science, vol. xxv. 18S8, p. 271.)] Fractures ofilie Condyles of tlie Femur. [Oblique fracture of the external or internal condyle of the femur into the knee joint occasion- ally happens, but it is a rare form of injury. M. Malgaigne states that he has seen three cases of this nature, but he could only meet with three other recorded examples. Of these six, three were fractures of the internal, and three of the external condyle. Three others, two of the external and one of the internal condyle, are mentioned by Dr. Hamilton in his work On Fractures and Disloca- tions. They may be caused by a fall on the knee, or a direct blow, such as the kick of a horse, or a heavy weight falling upon the condyles. In one case, mentioned by Dr. Hamilton, the patient, a young man, set. twenty-one, suddenly twisted his knee while undressing himself to bathe, and a frac- ture of the external condyle was produced. Six months afterwards the separated fragment, com- prising a considerable portion of the articular sur- face, was removed through an incision below the condyle, and the patient recovered. The symptoms are severe pain and great swelling 0? the joint. If the swelling be not too great on examination of the lower end of the femur, the fractured portion may perhaps be felt separated from the rest of the bone, and on pressing the surfaces together crepitus will be elicited. M. Malgaigne states that in general the fractured condyle has a tendency to ascend above the level of the other, and to draw the tibia with it. The leg is tlierofore abducted upon the thigh in frac- tures of the external, and adducted in fractures of the internal condyle ; or if it does not assume one of these positions spontaneously, movements in one or other of the directions indicated may readily be conmiunicated to it to an abnormal extent.] In these cases. Sir A. Cooper prefers tlie straight position, because the tibia presses the extremity of the broken condyle into a lino with that which is not injured. The limb is to be put in the extended posture upon a pillow, and evaporating lotions and leeches are to be used for the removal of the swel- ling and iiidannnation. " When this object has been ell'ected, a roller is to be applied around the knee, and a piece of stiff pasteboard, about sixteen inches long, and sufliciently wide to extend entirely under the joint, and to pass on each side of it, so