CONJUNCTIVA. or head ; in piirpuia, cholera, and scurvy, in some cases no evident cause is to be found. The vessels whicii have given way sometimes continue to bleed for a considerable time. Weak astringent lotions, and an appropriate constitutional treatment, will be required. NoJi-hiflamnudory a'dema involves small and large portions of the conjunctiva. It occurs in people of relaxed habit of body. Small oedematous conjunctival folds may be removed witli scissors : large ones generally disappear after the use of astringent lotiun», and under proper constitutional treatment. Einphi/scma of the conjunctiva will be recog- nised by the sensation of crepitation wlien com- pressing the emphysematous portion. It is observed in cases of fracture of the nasal parietes. of diseases of the lachrymal sac, &c. Should it give rise to pain or impede the movements of the eyeball, the conjunctiva may from time to time be punctured, so as to let the air escape. Till the fracture is sup- posed to be consolidated the patient ought to avoid forcibly blowing the nose. {Mackenzie, 1854, p. 242.) Prolafise of the contents of the globe.—It occa- sionally happens, after an injury to the globe, that the portions of the aqueous, vitreous, or the entire or parts of the erj'stalline lens are displaced under the conjunctiva. (See Rivaud Landran, Ann. (/'Oc, vol. xxi. ; Dixon, Lancet, 1846, vol. ii. 23 ; Osenvooii, Annul. d'Ocul., vol. ii. p. 130.) Ston!/ concretions have been observed in the acini of the caruncule ; the latter may thus increase to an abnormal size, and is called encanthis calculosa. ( See Benedict, Handb. der Prakt. A ugenheilkunde, I. The., S. 266; Waller, Augenkrankheiten,!^^^, S. 169 ; Graefe, Archiv. fur Ophthal., 1. Bd. 1 Abthl. S. 290 ; Blasius, Observat. Anatom., Nr. 16, §§ F. V. p. 82 ; Sandfort ani Schumucker, Itiberi, &c.) Dacryolillis, or lachrymal calculi — Chalky con- cretions have been found in the folds of the con- junctiva. (See Dtsmarres, Ann. d^Ocul.,yd\. vii. p. 14!), § iv.) Foreign bodies on and in the conjunctiva.— Particles of dust, steel, wings of insects, &c., when driven upon tlio conjunctiva, are either re- moved by friction and the tears, or lodged in the conjunctival fokls, or not unfrequently on the iiiner aspect of the upper lid, near its margin. " The upper lid should always be everted when foreign bodies are to be sought for. Mr. Dixon saj's : — " Whenever a patient complains of having had a fragment of anything blown into the eye, and a careful scrutiny of the edges of the tarsi, the fold of the lower lid, and the surface of the globe has failed to reveal the cause of irritation, the upper lid should be treated in the following manner:—A pen, the extreme feather end of which is cut oft", so as to leave a stem just thick enough to resist bending, is laid across the upper lid, about half an inch from its free margin ; then, while the finger and thumb of the other hand grasp the eyelashes growing from the middle of the lid, the pen is pressed a little downwards, at the same moment that the lid is drawn first a little forwards and then upwards ; the tarsus will suddenly tilt and fold over, so as to expose its conjunctival surface. Both hands must act togctlier ; and if at the moment the turn is being given to the lid, the patient is told to look downwards, the eversion is much more readily accomplished. Foreign bodies should be lightly picked off with the feather or nib of the pen used for eftecting the eversion." Splinters of bone, wood, small shot, &c., may remain for a considerable time in the folds of the conjunctiva without causing much irritation. (See Walther, Abhandlungen a. d. Gebictc der Prak. Med., 1 Bd. S. 463; Ansiaux, Ann. d'Ocul., vol. viii. p. 96; Wardrop, Morbid. Anat., &c., vol. i. p. 70; Arlt, Prag.Viertcljahrschrift,l-2BH.S. 76; Monteath, Mackenzie's Pracl. Ahhandlung., S(c. 1832, S. 186; Scarpa, Tratiato d. Princ. Malat. deyli Occhi, 1816, vol. i. p. 170, oss. 24. See also Seitz and Mackenzie, 1854). Foreign bodies, when entering the caruncule, generally cause severe inflammation. Incrustations in the conjunctiva are not un- common after the prolonged use of lead lotions. (See Cuvicr, Ann. d'Octd., vol. x. p. 264; Fallot, ibid., vol. xi. p. 153.) Insects and their eggs have been found lodged in the folds of the conjunctiva. The most common were lice, flies, and different kinds of fleas. They cause much inflammation. (See Schin, Path. Mat. des Mensch. Aitges, 1828, S. 225; Bosscau, Himly, 1. c. 1, Bd. S. 267; Botiilhel, Ann. d'Oc, vol. xv. p. 138; Ormmid, MontMy J'ournccl, 1846, Ma7-ch ; Eitner, Preussens Vereinszestung, 1842, Nr. 49.) Enlozoa.—Of these the C3'sticercu8 telse cellu- losae, and in hot climates the filaria medinensis, have been observed. Mr. Dixon remarks :—" I have met with two cases only of this rare affection (occurrence of cysticercus). The first was in a young woman of eighteen, who had suffered so little inconvenience from the growth that she could not precisely say how long it had existed. In divid- ing the conjunctiva, the parasite was punctured and collapsed. The circlet of hooks surrounding the mouth was distinctly seen under the microscope." " The other case occurred in a girl aged six years. A little watery tumour, rather larger than a pin's head, had been noticed, it was said, eighteen months before the patient was brought to me. I found it a rounded vesicle, the size of a large garden pea, midway between the inner canthus and the margin of the cornea. It was surrounded by a good deal of conjunctival redness. The cj'st was injured in removing it from the areolar tissue, or subsequent!}', and I could not find any hooks so as to identity it as cysticercus. The cyst was lined with a layer of granular matter, and might have contained specimens of echinococcus, wliich had escaped when the fluid was evacuated. (See also Sichcl, Journal do Chirurgie, 1851, Dec. 1844, .lanv. Fev.;Cui:icr,Ann. d''Ooid., vol. xviii.p. 225; Horing, Ammans. Munatschrift,2 Bi. 5 Heft.; Aril, Bd. r, 'S. 170; Sichcl, Wiener nerd. Wecheiischafl. 185-J, No. 31 ; Nordmann and Payer, Ann, d'Ornl. vol. ix. p. 15fij Larrey, Denhoilrdigkeitcn, Bd. 1, S. 67: and Fisher, in Ulm Zeitschr'ift. fur Wojtndurzte nnd (iiburlshoJfcr,1 .Falirq. g. 4. Ilcft.) For the diflferent morbid changes of the conjunc- tiva which are treated in this article, consult Pro- fessor Carl Slellu'ag von Carion, Die Ophthal- mologie vom Natunvissenschnftlichcn Slandpnnkte aiis bcarbeilel. Bd. 2. Abthl. 3,§S 85-88, §§220-248, I f!57 ; James Dixon, A Guide to the Practiced Study of Diseases of the Eye, Sf^c. 1856; William Muokentic, A Praclical Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye,'[th eA. 1854; W. Laivrence, edited by Isaac Hays, A Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, H n 3