N 2 origin from the iliac, ulceration had taken place, and the bleeding had proved fatal. There was no coagidum formed in the iliac triinl:, though the operation had been performed several days, the circulation through the epigastric having continued. But the lymph-plug at the seat of the ligature on the iliac artery luas complete." {Med. Chir. Trans. vol. vi. p. 656.) Indeed, it must be admitted that the fluiditj' of the blood does not prevent the ad- hesive process, a fact which, as Mr. Travers ob- serves, is also proved by the indirect obstruction of a vessel, by means of a temporary ligature, or compressor. When, therefore, ihe vicinity of a large branch to the ligature is spoken of as a cir- cumstance conducive to secondary hemorrhage, I mean that it is so, inasmuch as the internal coa- gulum is useful in promoting the closure of the vessel, and its formation is prevented. It was either Brasdor or Desault, who first con- ceived, that, when an aneurism was so situated, that a ligature could not be applied to the artery leading to the swelling, a cure might possibly arise from_ tying the vessel on that side of the tumor, which was most remote from the heart. Desault conjectured that, by this means, the cir- culation through the sac would be stopped, the blood in it would coagulate, that the circulation would go on by the collateral arteries, and that the tumor would be finally absorbed. Deschamps tied the femoral artery below an inguinal aneu- rism ; but the progress of the disease, instead of being checked, seemed to be accelerated by the experiment. The operator was obliged, as a last resource, to open the tumor, and try to take up the vessel. In this attempt the patient lost a large quantity of blood, and died eight hours afterwards. (See (Euvrcs Cldr. de Desaiilt par Bicliat,'t. ii. p. 663 ; and Recueil Periodifjue de la Societe de Medecine de Paris, t. v. No. 17.) The operation of tying the artery below the tumor was repeated by Sir A. Cooper, not for an aneurism of the femoral artery in the groin, but for an aneurism of the external iliac, where tying the artery above the swelling was impracticable. The femoral artery was therefore tied immediately below Poupart's ligament, between the origins of the epigastric and the profunda. The pulsations of the tumor continued; but the progress of the disease was checked. After a time, indeed, the swelling decreased, and this in so considerable a manner, that hopes began to be entertained that perhaps the external iliac artery might soon admit of being tied above the disease. The ligatures came away without any unfavourable occurrence ; and when the wound was healed, the patient was sent into the country for the benefit of the change of air. Afterwards, however, the tumor gave way ; an extravasation of blood took place in the cellular membrane of the pelvis, and the patient died. Sir A. Cooper had no opportunity of seeing the case ; and as the body could not bo opened, further particulars were not obtained. I believe no additional trials of this practice were made in any part of the world, and that, in fact, the general feeling of the profession was decidedly against it until my friend Mr. Wardrop directed his particular attention to the subject, and hotii by reasoning and facts oxemplifiod, that Urasdor's method of operating ought to be adopted in certain aneunsms, the circumstances of which forbid the application of a ligature on the cardiac side of ANEURISM. i7() the tumor. The pulsation, which is sometimes felt for the first few days, at length subsides, in consequence of the circulation being stopped by the increased quantitj' of coagula, and the tumor begins to diminish. It is from facts of this kind that Mr. Wardrop deduces what he calls " a new principle for operating in aneurisms, so situated as hitherto to have been considered beyond the reach of art, and to which the Hunterian principle of operating is totally inapplicable." {On A?ieu- rism, p. IS, 8vo. Loud. 1828.) Mr. Wardrop observes, that the changes produced by Brasdor'a method, both in the artery and the sac, are pre- cisely those which Nature employs when she cures the disease by a spontaneous process. No sooner is the ligatiue applied on the distal side of the aneurismal tumor, than, as after the Hunterian plan, the anastomosing vessels dilate, and perform the function of the obliterated or obstructed trunk. The cases in which the operation has been done, prove also what would not have been expected, that the tumor, directly after the application of the ligature, diminishes, instead of undergoing enlargement. " If the circulation be turned into a new channel, and if that channel completely fiilfil the purpose, the sac, with its contents, as well as the portion of artery extending between the aneurism and the ligature, and also the blood contained in it, will now be in a passive state ; and though the blood will continue, for a certain time, to be influenced by the impulse of the cir- culation, carried on in that part of the vessel which passes into the tumor, still its motion mus become not only languid, but its current irregular, a state which, we know, admits of its speedy co- agulation. Whenever the coagulation of the blood does take place, then the cui-e of the aneurism may be said to be accomplished; the sac will contract; the coagulum will be absorbed; some portions in contiguity with the sac will become organised, and consolidate ; others, if the quantity be very large, will escape by a process of ulcer- ation through the skin ; and ultimately a gradual coalescence of the tumor will thus take place " {Wardrop, p. 20.) In the summer of 1825, this gentleman first tried Brasdor's method. The case was a carotid aneurism, in a female seventy-five years of age. The disease was so close to the cla- vicle, that it was quite impracticable to tie the vessel on the cardiac side of the tumor. Imme- diately the artery was tied, the swelling underwent a diminution. On the fourth day, it had lessened by one third. Afterwards the throbbing continued strong for a few days, at the expiration of which it became obscure, and at the'same time the tumor began to diminish again. Previously to the com- plete cure, ulceration occurred, and several larire masses of coagulated blood were discharged, along with some healthy pus. Three years after the hnth'""' ' *° °"j"y gooil December 10, 1826, Mr. AVardrop attempted a similar operation for the cure of a carotid aneurism in another woman aged fifty-seven. Some reduc- tion of the throbbing, and other relief, arc stated to liavo ensued; but the patient died of a com- plication of complaints on tiie 2;!rd of the followinff March, 1827. " Up to the day of her death, a tumor remained in her neck, of about the bulk of an almond, which pulsated strongly, felt very thill ill its coats, and its contents could bo readilv "