ANUS. 272 to the effort of the intestinal matter to get from the upper into the lower portion of the bowel. A rich full diet is recommended by M. Louis, for the purpose of gradually enlarging the communication between the two portions of bowel: purgatives, administered with the view of forcing the obstacles to a free communication ; the introduction of tents, the size of which is gradually increased, in order to dilate the contraction between the two parts of the intestine; the movement and position of the trunk backward, advised by D.ipuytren to render the mesentery tense, and to eiface the projecting angle and the septum continued from it ; com- pression of the external opening, practised from time immemorial, to hinder the intestinal contents from escaping outwards, and obliging them to pass by the natural way, — are all, as Dupuytren ob- serves, so many resources, which, employed singly or unitedly, have accomplished many cures, (see Clinique Chir. t. ii. p. 225.) But everybody must agree with this distin- guished practitioner, that, previously to attemptmg to cure the principal disease, all accidental com- plications should be removed ; as an indurated or inflamed state of the skin, extensive sinuses, or a prolapsus of the intestine. The latter, according to Dupuytren, is easily obviated by keepmg the patient a few days on his back, and having re- course to the taxis with gentleness, and moderate steady compression. Almost all artificial am, at- tended with a simple perforation of some point of the circumference of the bowel, are set down by Dupuytren as curable. These cases are in reality but stercoraceous fistulffi, behind which the intes- tinal canal is almost entire, without loss of sub- stance or any manifest contraction, or material change of direction. Here nature is disposed to close the accidental opening, and her eiforts, assisted by moderate compression, are mostly suc- cessful. But Dupuytren explains that this sim- ple treatment will not answer when the artifacial anus has been produced by the destruction of a third or a half of the circumference of the bowel, for an extent varying from a few lines to an mch. Yet here, the loss of substance, the changed direc- tion of the intestine, and the jutting angle between the two portions of it, are not so considerable as to prevent the restoration of the natural passage for the intestinal matter from being brought about by suitable treatment. Nay, he adds that cases are not absolutely incurable by the plans above ad- verted to, even when the artificial^ two consequence of a loss of substance, involving two- • thirds or three-quarters of the circumference o the bowel, with a proportionate length ot it. isut when the loss of the substance amounts to iour-titt is, or the whole of the circumference, with or with- out the inclusion of a piece of the mesentery, such methods will not avail. Here the diminished calibre of the bowel, its altered direction, the jut- ting angle, and the double septum, present them- selves in the strongest manner as invincible impedi- ments to the re-establishment of the natural course of the alimentary matter ; and, as Dupuytren fur- ther remarks, pressure, which, when made with precision, is the most effectual means of closing the outlet, immodiatelv brings on colic, nausea, hic- cough, vomiting, and all the symptoms of strangu- lated hernia. When, therefore, the whole, or the greater part, of the stools is discharged by an artificial anus no attempt must be made to stop up the open- ing, without a great deal of consideration; for any effort of this kind, made under circum- stances which do not justify it, may be the means of exposing the patient's life to the most alarming danger. Sometimes, indeed, without any interference of the surgeon, the outward opening contracts, and, the issue of the intestinal matter being obstructed, pain and tenesmus are excited ; and the same consequences may be pro- duced by any swelling and enlargement of the projecting ridge situated between the two portions of the bowel. In two cases, Puy found this swell .ng take place in such a degree, that the patients fell victims to the complete stoppage of the intes- tinal contents. The symptoms which arise are then similar to those which happen in strangulated hernia. Hoiu, Le Blanc, and Sabaticr, also cite instances, in which the patients lost their lives by gangrene, brought on by this species of strangula- tion. (Desaulf, vol. cit. p. 360.) There is a period (says Mr. Travers) at which, the function of the lower portion of the canal, with a little assistance, may be restored. The natural order of events, connected with this recovery, has been mistaken and inverted. Practitioners have closed the wound, instead of conducting the matter by purgatives and clysters into the large intestines. Now. the wound will never fail to heal, when the matter recovers its accustomed route; but this condition cannot be reversed. The restoration is safest when most gradual; when there is evidence of an existing sympathy between the repair, of structure and the return of function. According to the same gentleman, there is reason to believe that the well-timed exhibition of a single purgative might often prove effectual. " If the food is rapid, and little changed in its passage, it should be pul- taceous and nutritive, and given in moderate quantity at short intervals ; while injections of the same kind should be administered at least twice in twenty-four hours, and retained as long as possible." He states, that by such means patients mav be nourished for many weeks. If the dis- charge is sparing, and does not readily escape, he recommends an occasional purgative in less than ordinary quantity. He disapproves of other medicines, especially stimulants, and all such food as is difKcult of digestion, giving a general prefer- ence to animal food in a gelatinous form. He be- stows iust praise on strict attention to cleanliness ; and, ill opposition to Desault and Sabatier, con- demns the employment of tents and sponges. (Op. cit. p. 371, 373.) , , J f Numerous cases on record furnish abundance o proofs that the fkces, after being voided for several months from the wound produced by the operation for hernia, frequently resume their natural course. Facts of this kind, which, in general, may be said to be common when the intestine is without loss ot substmice, are not very rare even when more or less of the bowel has been destroyed by ?«"g « and many illustrations of this remark may be fou 1 i„ the writings of De la Peyronie, Louis, Petit, Pott, Le Dran, &c. Several such cases have fallen indJr my own' observation. Tlie greater number of these instances of success, as already stated, were" he result of the most simple ""o*"---/;- ; nieut, or rather of the undisturbed and ver^ lUtlc assisted efforts of nature. /t. 7„„^,;;„ [In an cxcdlent article in the CtjclopcBda, oj