FEVER. stitutional symptoms of all the diseases that wear out life by a process of slow exhaustion, and which are attended with chilliness and accessions of lever. _ In the first place, there are the cases in which incurable local disease is the main cause of the hectic : such as disease of joints, necrosed bone, and the like. In these cases there may be some absorption of pus; or it may be merely the contin- ued influence of pain and sleeplessness ; of bad appetite, and bad digestion ; of want of air and exercise, which bring the patient to the extremity of weakness. In the next place, hectic may arise from some blood changes, which are the result of bygone morbific influences, and are the parents of local disease. Thus in the early stage of phthisis, in disease of the kidnej-, in secondary syphilis, in subacute periostitis, in various forms of dyspepsia, reiterated attacks of febricula occur, consisting of evening chills, followed by flushes, hot skin, quick pulse, and night perspirations. There is no doubt whatever but that these hectic symptoms may exist, either in incipient cachectic disease, or in prolonged disease, without being caused by absorp- tion of pus. Nevertheless, the writer believes that in cases in which the hectic character is the most strongly marked, in which the paroxysms are most regu- lar, the pulse quickest, the tongue red, and the bowels most irritable, that there an absorption of pus is most probable. For example : The writer is at this moment at tending a gentleman in the early stage of phthisis. There is some morbid deposit in the upper lobe of each lung, some .cough, and some muco-purulent expectoration ; but judging by analogy, no ground forassumiiigabsorption of pusmore than there would be in every case of catarrh. Moreover, the pus is not offensive. This patient has had several attacks of febricula, i. e. evening chills and proflise night perspirations, but they come irregularly, and al- though attended with diarrhoea, it is not severe. On the other hand, the writer was lately attend- ing an aged lady with epithelial cancer of the womb. As the disease advanced, the discharge became more offensive and profuse, and the ulcer- ated surface larger. On a sudden, one day her bowels became irritable, and her tongue, from being of the ordinary colour, was observed to have lost its epithelium, and to be red as a dog's tongue. This condition, with evening paroxysms of rest- lessness, lasted till her death. In the former of these cases, we assume that the hectic arose from malassimilation or tuberculosis, and indicated deposit: in the latter, that it indicated absorption of decaj^ing pus. The symptoms of common hectic arc evening chills, followed by heat, thirst, and restlessness, and by profuse perspiration. The perspiration generallybegins soon after the patient has dropped asleep, and wakes him up. It is profuse, often offensive. The urine loaded with red sediment. To tliose are added many signs of wasting and debility. The hair falls, the finger nails chip, the teeth decay; (although the theory has been broached that canes of the teeth is a preservative against pntliisis) ; the skin is harsh and withered, and mere 13 a general air of languor. The state of the appetite depends upon circumstances. In some cases, m which the digestive organs are not pri- marily or secondarily involved, the desire for food IS immense, and digestion amazingly rapid In others, in which diarrhoea prevails, all food may be loathed. The state of the bowels too is usually loose, but not unfrequently scrofulous ulceration ot tlie mucous membrane comes on, and then there are attacks of the severest pain, with bleeding, and that intolerable foetor of the motions which ensues when blood is mixed with foecal matter and has time to decompose. Death, in these cases, usually occurs by asthenia ; the patient faints away, and never recovers.] [IV. The Putrid orTvPHoiD Type of traumatic fever, is that which is caused by the absorption of truly putrescent matter, probably of the sulphide of ammonium. John Hunter, who may always be depended upon when he describes what he has seen, devotes a section of his work on the Blood and Inflam- mation to what he calls dissolution, or the manner in which death occurs after external injuries. He says that it may occur at any stage after an injury; sometimes appearing to be a continuation of the sympathetic fever, sometimes following a protracted suppuration and hectic. A man, he says, shall lose his leg, or suffer a bad compound fracture, and the earliest symptoms shall have sub- sided, and all seem to be going on well, " when suddenly he shall be attacked with a shivering fit, which shall not perform all its actions, viz. shall not produce the hot fit and sweat, but shall con- tinue a kind of irregular hot fit, attended with loss of appetite, quick low pulse, and sunken eyes, and the person shall die in a few days." " Or, if the local disease does not or cannot heal, and is such as to affect the constitution, it then brings on the hectic, and sooner or later dissolution takes place." The symptoms, according to Hunter, are shiver- ing and vomiting, oppression, anxiety, and expecta- tion of death; quick small pulse, perhaps bleeding from the whole surface of the sore ; often mortifi- cation, with every sign of dissolution in the coun- tenance. This disease also, he says, has been supposed to arise from the absorption of matter. It is apt to follow violent and long-continued inflammations and suppurations, particularly of the lower ex- tremity ; it takes place more readily in hospitals than in private houses, and in cities than in the country. It is liable to follow amputation of the leg, and cutting for the stone in fat men who have lived well ; and appears, according to Hunter, to be a thorough failure and abandonment of vital power. Hectic and " dissolution," he adds, are by no means the same disease ; and that hectic may generally be relieved if its cause be removed ; whereas " dissolution seems more to be connected with the past than the present;" that is,to be the re- sult of foregone and irremediable exhaustion. It is easy to recognise in Hunter's description some cases of pyajmia, perhaps some of hospital gangrene ; and above all, the condition which we now proceed to describe. Suppose a large chronic abscess, which has been opened ; the sac has bled, the pus has putrified. Now come shivering, a hot skin, duskycoiiiplexion, dry brown tongue, sordes on the teeth, and weak, fluttering pulse. The ulcer or snc ceases to sup- purate, but oozes a scanty bloody serum. The bowels aro probably loose ;" the nervous system is