FRACTURE, rated from each otlier to the extent of an inch or more.] _ When the humerus, or the os feraoris, is the sub- ject of inquiry, a crepitus is felt almost as soon as the hmb is touched; and, in the case of the broken thigh, there is a considerable shortening of the ex tremity, except in a few cases of completely trans verse fractures. [Here again, in some cases of shortening, unless tile fracture be very oblique, it may be necessary to draw down the limb to its proper length to render the crepitus distinct, as the sensa- tion produced by the smooth periosteal surfaces of bones overlapping one another will not be by any means so evident as that occasioned by their frac- tured ends.] When there are two bones, as in the leg and the fore-arm, and only one is broken, the other continues to prevent the limb from being short- ened, and thrown out of its natural shape, so that a crepitus can only be felt by a very careful ex- amination with the fingers. The difficulty of the diagnosis is increased when the surgeon is con suited late, and great swelling has come on. " Where is the surgeon," says Boyer, " that has not sometimes hesitated to deliver an opinion in certain cases of this description ? " (Malad. CIdr t. iii. p. 27.) When the injured limb is shortened, the surgeon, before pronouncing that such change proceeds from the passage of the fragments over each other, must be sure that the bones are not dislocated, and that the limb is not naturally shorter than the other, or is shortened in consequence of a previous fracture, that has been badly set. ' In comparing the length of the lower extremities one should place the pelvis in a horizontal position, and_ put the two anterior superior spines of the os.sa ilii in the same line : for, if these processes are not on a level, the limb, towards which the pelvis in- clines, will seem longer than the opposite member. The practitioner who is well acquainted with the anatomy of the limbs, and particularly with the mutual relations of the eminences of the bones to each other, ivill readily perceive the alterations produced by a fracture. Whenever, in conse- quence of a fall, or blow, a limb becomes concave at a part where it ought to be convex or straight, et vice versa, tlie change of shape and direction must proceed from a fracture with displacement. The inner edge of the great toe, when the leg rests on a horizontal surface, should correspond with the inner edge of the knee-pan. If this natural relation be altered ; if the inner edge of the great toe cor- respond with the outer edge of the knee-pan, there can be no doubt of the existence of a fracture of both bones of the leg. (.Boyer, vol. cit. t. iii. p. I am aware that considerable harm, and great unnecessary pain, have been occasioned by too much solicitude to feel the grating of fractured bones, and vviienever the case is sufficiently evident to tlie eyes, the practitioner who gives way to this habit, at the expense of torture to the unfortunate patient, ought in my opinion to be severely ccn- fiured. A fracture is an injury necessarily attended with a great deal of pain, ami followed by more or less swelling and inflaiiiination ; and to increase tnesu evils, by rougiily or unnecessarily handling 110 part, IS ignorant and cruel, and (if I may use tne expression) unsurgical. In some kinds of fractures the broken bone is f ^^"'^ ^'^^y P*^'« that it is diflicult to feel a crepitus, or ascertain the existence of the injury. Some fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone are cases illustrative of this obsen-a- tion. In very doubtful cases, the stethoscope has been proposed as a means of elucidating the dia- gnosis, and Lisfranc is said to have used it with Nr78.p?37)™' """^^"'ff- 4. Prognosis op Fractures. The prognosis of fractures varies, according to the kind of bone injured, what part of it is broken the direction of the breach of continuity, and what other mischief complicates the case. Fractures of bones which have many strong muscles inserted into them, are more difficult of cure than those of other bones, which have not so many powers attached to them capable of displacing the frag- ments, r o 6 A fracture of the middle part of a long bone is less dangerous than a similar injury near one of Its joints, which may be followed by synovial in- flammation and ankylosis. _ Thus, "in a fracture of the thigh-bone, near the condyles, the inflam- mation and swelling extend to the knee-joint, which is affected with a degree of stiffness that continues for a long while, and sometimes cannot be entirely cured during life. The e.xperiments of M. Cruveilhier prove that various forms of irri- tation will make the periosteum, ligaments, and cartilages ossify ; and it has been ascertained, that in some cases of fracture near the joints the liga- ments have sometimes been converted into bone. (See Andral. Anat. Pathol, t. i. p. 300.) Inflammation of a joint, brought on by fracture, 13 attended with more severe symptoms, in propor- tion as the contusion has been "more violent. In a fracture near an articulation, it is to be observed, also, that common splints have little command over the short fragment/so that it is often difficult with them to prevent displacement ; and, with respect to transverse fractures of the neck of tlie thigh-bone within the capsular ligament, although the possibility of the reunion of sucli cases by means of bony matter is no longer a disputed point, the cure is more commonly effected only by means of a fibrous ligamentous substance. When a bone is fractured in several places, the case is more serious, and the difficulty of cure greater. But the accident is still worse when a limb is fractured in two different places at once ; as, for instance, in the thigh and leg. Here, witli- out the assistance of a double oblique plane, or M'Intyre's excellent apparatus, it would be almost impossible to reduce the fracture of the thigii and maintain the reduction well, so as to preserve tlie natural length of the limb. Oblique fractures are more troublesome ami difficult of cure than transverse ones, because an oblique surface does not resist the retraction of (lie lower portion of the broken bone, and consequently the cuds of the fracture are kept duly applied to each other with difficult}'. Fractures, complicated with violent contusion of the soft parts, or with a wound, rendering thcin compound, are much more dangerous than otliois free from such accidents. The bad symptom?, which render compound fractures so dangernns, are of nianj' kinds : hn;niorrlmgo ; violent aiul