HOSPITAL ( {ANGRENE, 1013 sponges, lint, or cliarpie, impregnated with the in- fection of this peculiar disorder. But this inocula- tion is conceived to be the more alarming, and to take effect the more quickly, in proportion as pa- tients have been more exposed to the influence ol such causes as are themselves capable of producing the disease, and also in proportion as the kind of constitution predisposes to it. Although tlie contagious nature of hospital gan- grene has been generally admitted by all the best- informed writers on the subject, the doctrine was not considered by Dr. Trotter as having a good foundation. Modern authors, however, have not joined this latter gentleman, and Dr. J. Thomson, Dr. Hennen, Mr. Blackadder, and Mr. R. Wel- bank, all believe that the disorder is infectious. " The contagious nature of hospital gangrene (says Professor Thomson) appears to me to be sufficiently proved, 1st, By the fact that it may be communi- cated by sponges, charpie, bandages, and clothing, to persons at a distance from those infected with it. 2ndly, By its having been observed to attack the slight wounds of surgeons, or their mates, who were employed in dressing infected persons; and that even in circumstances where the medical men so employed did not live in the same apartment with the infected. 3rdly, By our being able often to trace its progress distinctly from a single individual through a succession of patients. 4thly, By its attacking recent wounds, as well as old sores, and that in a short time after they are brought near to a patient affected with the disease. 5thly, By our being able to prevent the progress of the disease in particular situations, by removing the infected person before the contagion, which his sores emit, has had time to operate. 6thly, By its continuing long in one particular ward of an hospital, or in one particular ship, without appearing in other wards, or ships, if pains be taken to prevent inter- course between the infected and uninfected." {Lec- tures, On Inflammation, p. 484.) The air of a crowded hospital, as Mr. Black- adder observes, is a ready means of accounting for the origin of phagedsena gangreenosa ; but he mentions a case in which the wound of a soldier was found affected with the disease, on his first arrival at an hospital, after having been accidentally detained with two other wounded comrades for five or six days, partly in an open building, and partly in a boat, quite exposed to stormy weather (p. 45); Dr. Hennen likewise gives an account of about thirty fresh-wounded men, in whom hospital gangrene first appeared in their journey from Vittoria to the hospital near Bilboa. {Principles of MiHlary Surgery, p. 214, ed. 2.) And according to Mr. J. Bell, "there is no hospital, however small, airy, or well-regulated, wiiere this epidemic ulcer is not to be found at times." {Principles of Surgery, vol. i. p. 112.) [The venerable Guthrie observes, " How is this morbid poison generated ? how does it originate ? The answer I am about to give is a very dangerous one. It originates in consequence of, Ist, a failure in the discipline of the army; 2ndly, a failure in its medical organisation; and, 3rdly, from the absence of a sufficient number oF good surgeons, regularly drilled to their respective duties. Hospital gan- grene never appears wherever these three essential points are duly attended to; and, if it should occur, it does comparatively little mischief, and is always to be subdued." The venerable writer proceeds to say, that the first time the disease appeared during the Peninsular war, was when the wounded of Talavera were sent to Elvas in 1009 and 1810, and from this moment it was usually to be found in all general hospitals in Portugal and Spain. So soon as the wounded of the array in 1811 began to be amassed together in small houses, as at Celorico in Portugal, and in 1813 at Passages in Biscay, with- out the possibility of separating them, the disease appeared; or where they were brought together in large numbers in convents, as at Coimbra, without sufficient ventilation, and sufficient severity of dis- cipline. " Professor Brugmann," continues Mr. Guthrie, "says, that in 1797, in Holland, charpie, com- posed of linen threads, which it was found on in- quiry had been already used in the great hospitals of France, and had been washed and bleached, caused every ulcer to which it was applied to be affected by"hospital gangrene^ He says, also, that the disease prevailed in one of the low wards at Leyden, in 1798, whilst the ward or garret above it was free. The surgeon made an opening in the ceiling between the two, in order to ventilate the lower or affected ward, and in thirty hours, three patients, who lay next the opening, were attacked by the disease, which soon spread through the whole ward. Our experience in Portugal and Spain," says Mr. Guthrie, " confirmed this fact, and left no doubt in the mind of any one who had frequent opportunities of seeing the disease, that one case of hospital gangrene was capable of in- fecting not only every ulcer in the ward, but in every ward near it, and ultimately throughout the hospital, however large. The disease, as long as it remains unaltered by destructive applications, may be considered infectious, as well as conta- gious." Guthrie gives the sanction of his experience to the existence of two forms : one, the more concen- trated and active; the whole surface becoming in 48 hours of a dark red colour and ragged appear- ance, with blood partly coagulated and half putrid appearing at every point; with burning pain and awful stench, and the extension of the disease in a circular form, so rapid as to be marked from hour to hour; "so that in another 24 or 48 hours, nearly the whole of the calf of a leg, or the muscle of a buttock, or even of the wall of the abdomen, may disappear, leaving a deep, great hollow, or hiatus." But the destroying process sometimes assumes more of a sloughing than of a gangrenous character, whence Delpech has named it pulpeuse. ^' It may attack," says Mr. Guthrie, " the whole surface of an ulcer at once, or in distinct points; all, however, rapidly extending towards each other, until they constitute one whole. The red of the granulations becomes of a more violet colour, and a layer of ash- coloured matter is soon seen'covering them, which adheres so firmly as not to be easily removed, or if separated shows that it is a substance formed upon the surface, and constituting a part of the granula- tions themselves, which are ultimately confounded with it. About the end of the first week, and sometimes much later, this kind of idccr becomes more painful; the edges, or the circumference of the wound, assume a browner hue, and the parts be- come somewhat pasty, the whitish colour of the part particularly affected being opaque grey and soft. It may be said that the false membrane having become very thick, has lost the little vitality