tate the limb at once. The annexed views of the mutter appear to me to be most judicious and rational. First, that if an attempt be made to cut away the tumor, and save the limb, the surgeon must be careful to remove at the same time a considerable quantity of the soft parts in the cir- cumference of the swelling. Secondly, that the earlier this is done, the more likely is it to succeed. Thirdly, that after the tumor has been taken out, an attentive examination of the surface of the wound should be made, and every suspicious part, or fibre, be cut away. Fourthly, that, should the disease still recur, amputation ought to be instantly performed. Fifthly, that caustics should never be applied to this disease. Sixthly, that, even when one of these operations effectually extirpates the distemper in the limb itself, the patient's entire re- covery is always rendered exceedingly uncertain, by reason of the viscera, and other deep-seated parts, being frequently affected at the time of the operation with the same sort of disease, which state pf them, though invisible, is often denoted by a sallow complexion, debility, indigestion, emacia- tion, and hectic. I will quit this part of the subject with stating some of the principal differences between this form of malignant disease and scirrhus. A scirrhous tumor is, from its commencement, hard, firm, and incompressible. A scirrhous tumor situated in a gland is not always capable of being separated from the latter part, so much are the two structures blended. A scirrhus, in another situation, gene- rally condenses the surrounding cellular substance, so as to form a kind of capsule, and assume a cir- cumscribed appearance. When a scirrhous swell- ing ulcerates, a thin ichor is discharged, and a good deal of its substance is destroyed by the ulceration; other parts become affected, and the patient dies from the increased ravages of the disease, and its irritation on the constitution. Sometimes, though not always, after a scirrhus has ulcerated, it emits a fungus of a very hard texture. Such excrescence, however, is itself at last destroyed by the ulcera- tion. Ulcerated scirrhous sores, also, frequently put on for a short time, in some places, an appear- ance of cicatrisation. On the other hand, fungus ha3matodes, while of moderate size, is a soft elastic swelling, with an equal surface, and a deceitful feel of fluctuation. It is, in general, quite circum- scribed, and often included within a capsule. The substance of the tumor, instead of being for the most part hard, consists of a soft, pulpy, medullary matter, which readily mixes with water. When ulceration occurs, the tumor is not lessened by this process, as in scirrhus ; but a fungus is emitted, and the whole swelling grows with increased ra- pidity. Scirrhous diseases are mostly met with in persons above forty years of age, while fungus htematodes generally afflicts j'oung subjects. \,nardrop.) Many dissections have now proved that the substance of fungus hrematodes may con- tain cellular septa, wliich include the pulpy, me- dullary matter. Fungus bnjmatodes, in its early stage, is gene- rally attended with less acute pain than is experi- enced in cases of scirrhus. The tumor also has a mnr» i fr" u b°""dary than a scirrhus, and it is S inin 'f' ' 'V^y 'he diseased structure WC tl ' r*""^ '^y'" '^^'''"••y commences, tit cv t£r""i*"'"^ breast,'there is less '"e"cy than in scirrhous cases to disease in FUNGUS H^MATODES. the axillary glands, which may remain sound, though the disorder in the breast may have advanced to suppuration and ulceration. In the breast the disease is also much quicker in its progress than scirrhus. {Sir A. Cooper, Lancet, vol. ii. p. 399.) In cases of scirrhus, the viscera are not in gene- ral affected at the same time with the disease ; but in the majority of examples of fungus ha;ma- todes, this distemper is found affecting in the same subject a variety of parts. In addition to the out- ward tumor, we find swellings of a similar nature, perhaps, in the liver, the lungs, the mesenteric glands, or even in the brain. [For the position which fungus hferaatodes holds amongst other can- cerous diseases, see Cancer.] Fungus H^matodes of the Eye Presents three stages. In the first, the exterior form of the eye is unchanged, and the disease is perceived through the cornea and pupil. In the second, the form of the eye is altered ; the organ is enlarged, and its tunics are ready to give way. In the third (or fungous stage), the eye has burst and the tumor protrudes. (See Mac- kenzie on Dis. of the Eye, p. 647, ed. 2.) The first symptoms are observable in the pos- terior chamber, an appearance like that of polished iron presenting itself at the bottom of the eye. {Scarpa, On Diseases of the Eye, p. 505, ed. 2.) The pupil becomes dilated and immoveable, and, instead of having its natural deep black colour, it is of a dark amber, and sometimes of a greenish hue. The change of colour becomes gradually more and more remarkable, and at length is dis- covered to be occasioned by a solid substance, which proceeds from the bottom of the eye towards the cornea. The surface of this substance is gene- rally rugged and unequal, and ramifications of the central artery of the retina may sometimes be seen running across it. The front surface of the new mass at length advances as far forwards as the iris, and the amber, or brown appearance of the pupil, has, in this stage, been known to mislead surgeons into the supposition of there being a cataract, and cause them to attempt couching. The disease con- tinuing to increase, the ej'eball loses its natural figure, and assumes an irregular knobby' appear- ance. The sclerotica also loses its white colour, and becomes of a dark blue, or livid hue. Some- times nwtter now collects between the tumor and the cornea. The latter membrane in time ulcer- ates, and the diseased mass begins to protrude. In a few instances, it makes its way through the scle- rotica, and is then covered by the conjunctiva. The surface of the excrescence is irregular, often covered with coagulated blood, and bleeds pro- fusely from slight causes. When the fungus is very large, the most prominent parts slough away, at- tended with a fetid sanious discharge. In the course of the disease, the absorbent glands under the jaw, and about the parotid gland, may be- come contaminated. On dissection, a diseased mass is found extending forwards from the entrance of the optic nerve, the vitreous, crystalline, and aqueous humours being absorbed. The retina is annihilated, and the choroid coat propelled for- wards, or quite destroyed. The tumor seems to consist of a sort of medullary matter, resembling brain. The optic nerve is thicker and harder than natural, of a brownish ash-colour, and destitute of its usual tubular appearance. In other cases the