CATARACT, annexing the _ sentiment of Mr. Travers, viz. that It would be incorrect to say, that the operation IS unadvisable in all cases of cataract in which the patient has no sense of light ; for it is possible that tlie density of the lens may be such as abso- lutely to exclude the light, and that the motions of the ins may be therefore suspended : or from some degree of the pressure of the lens, or adhe- sion of the u vea to the capsule, that the pupil may be undiluted, and the circumference of the lens permanently covered. But, undoubtedly, says Mr. Travers, a case of this description is unpio- mising. "A strong sense of light by which at least to know the direction in which it enters the apartment, to be sensible of its falling on the eve and of a shade, as the hand for example, inter- cepting it, with a corresponding freedom of motion of the pupil, 13 the most favourable state for the operation." {S?/,iopsis of ike Diseases of the Eve p. 315.) ^ ' As it not mifrequently happens that cataracts produced by external violence spontaneously dis- appear, (Po«, Hey, Ware, &c.,) the operation should never be too hastily recommended for them. Respecting the question whether an operation ought to be done when only one eye is aifected with cataract and the other is sound, some dif- ference of opinion prevails. When there are cataracts in both eyes, some authors are of opinion that] there is no reason why one should not be operated upon immediately after the other. As, however, the inflammation is likely to be more severe, cceteris parihiis, when both eyes are operated upon at the same time, Scarpa, who gives the preference to the needle, disapproves of this mode of proceeding, and assures us that in patients with cataracts in both eyes, his experience had taught him that it is better to wait till one eye is well before any attempt is made upon the other. (Saffgio di Osservazioni, tC-c. p. 255.) On this point the following is Beer's sentiment: When cataracts are completely formed in both eyes, the patient willing, and everything promises a favourable result, both eyes may be operated upon at the same time. On the contrary, when any circumstances are present which render the event of the operation very doubtful, it is most ad- visable to make the attempt only on one eye, even though the patientabsolutely wish more to be done; so that if the first operation should fail, but the' complication of this cataract afterwards change con- siderably to the advantage of the patient, one eye would still be left for a second more favourable attempt. (Lehre von deti Augenkr. b. ii. p. 350.) If division of the cataract is the operation to be performed, Dr. Mackenzie approves of operating on both eyes at the same time; if extraction, then lie deems it best to await the result of the operation on one eye before touching the other. " Double extraction (says ho) decidedly exposes the eyes to greater risk of inflammation." (On Bis. of the J^ye, p. 700, ed. 2.) The propriety of operating on the cataracts of children is now firmly fixed on the basis of ex- perience. The needle may be successfully em- ployed on children of the most tender ago. The Jiite Mr. Saunders, surgeon to the London Infir- inary for Diseases of the Eye, bad the principal snare in promoting the adoption of this important mprovoment. Ilia practice confirmed what reason ii.ia long ago made probable ; and tiie judgment. tenderness and skill with which he operated on the^ eyes of infants as well as those of adults were fol- lowed by a degree of success which had ne 'er b en previously witnessed, and which infused m. te a new spirit into this most interesting Ech sur- gery. Subjects from eighteen months to f ur vea s old received most benefit from Mr. Saunders's^ope rations; and if any intermediate times be selecTed Dr. Farre is inclined to recommend the age of two years. « The parts have then attained a dLee of resistance which enables the surgeon to operate vvi h g,eater precision than at an earlier pS; yet the capsule has not become so tough and flex- ible as It does at a later period, after the lens has been more completely absorbed. "But this is not the greatest, although a con- siderable advantage, of an early operation ; for, in cases in which the patient has no perception of ex- ternal objects, the muscles acquire such an invete- rate habit of rolling the eye, that for a very lonrr time after the pupil has been cleared by an opera- tion no voluntary efibrt can control this irremilar motion nor direct the eye to objects with sufficient precision for the purpose of distinct and useful vision. The retina too, by a law common to all the structures of an animal body, for want of being exei-cised, fades in power. Its sensibility, in many ot the cases cured at the ages of four years and under, could not be surpassed in children who had enjoyed vision from birth; but at eight years, or even earber, the sense was evidently less active- at twelve, it was still more dull; and from the age ot fifteen and upwards it was generally very im- perfect, and sometimes the mere perception of liaht reraamed. But these observations do not apply" to those congenital cataracts in which only the centre of the lens and capsule is opaque, the circumference being transparent; for in those the retina is ex- ercised by a perception, although an imperfect one, of external objects, the motions of the mus*les which direct the globe are associated, and an ab- sorption of the lens does not take place: therefore in this variety of the disease, the argument in favoiu: of an early operation is not so much a medical as a moral one — it is preferable for the purposes of education and enjoyment." (Saunders, On Diseases of the Eye, p. 153, 155.) Dr. Mackenzie is also an advocate for operatin" in infancy, if possible, before teething commences! {On Dis. of the Eye, ed. 2, p. 702.) Mr. Lawrence has operated, with perfect success, on infants of six weeks, but considers the age of two months as generally early enough. He has always operated m the first year, where he has had the choice. {On Dis. oftlie.Eye, p. 51.) Mr. Guthrie considers the period of dentition an unseasonable one for the operation; but excepting the time of this process, if the child be health}-, he thinks it qualified for the attempt at any age, reckoning from that of six months : and that, " even if the operation be delayed until the end of the third or fourth year, little or no inconvenience is found to arise from it." {Operative Surgeru of the Eye, p. 3C2.) When once it is decided to operate upon a :ataract, the sooner the operation is done, in general, the better; because the anxiety of tlic pa- tient increases every day, my, every liour. A\'lien the operation is delcrred for a few days, the great- est caution must be used not to let him expose him- self to any causes likely to bring on catarrhal or