806 about with immense violence, on being struck bv cannon-balls Even the ground itself is frequently scattered with such force as to cause injuries of a serious nature. Several examples of such occur- rences are noticed by M. Larrey, jun. (See Hist. Chir. du Siege de la Ciladelle d'Anvers, p. 42, &c.) Irregular angular bodies keep up inflammation until they are discharged in the course of the sup puration, or they are extracted. But the textures sometimes become habituated to the presence of a ball, which is regular and smooth, and not of too large a size. A ball of this kind has been known to lodge for a considerable time in the brain, the heart, or lungs. Fibrine is first effused around it and, becoming organised, assumes the character of Villous membrane, from which pus exudes, but which IS rendered gradually thinner, puts on a smooth appearance, and at length secretes only a httle serosity. Sometimes, however, the serous cyst accidentally inflames, an abscess forms, and fistulte ensue, which continue as long as the cause of the irritation. According to the researches of Dupuy tren, wherever balls lodge for a time and excite inflammation and suppuration, they are enveloped in a cyst, whose structure resembles that of a mu- cous membrane; and after a certain period, a com- munication is established between the cavity of the cyst and some point of the surface, or of the in- tenor of the body. On the other hand, when a ball excites neither inflammation nor suppuration, the cyst presents an organisation exactly like that of a serous membrane, and contains between it and the ball a limpid serosity. (See Dupuytreti, in Cltn.Chir. t. ii. p. 432.> If, after extracting the ball from such a cyst, the wound be closed and healed by the first intention, a swelling is apt to form, composed of a collection of serous fluid in the cyst which is left. Hence, Dupuy tren recommends either the removal of the cyst with the ball, or fill ing it with lint. On account of the contusion which the parts suffer from the violent passage of the ball through them, a part of the textures surrounding the wound 18 most commonly deadened, and must afterwards be thrown off in the form of a slough. Hence, such wounds are generally prevented from hialing by the first intention, and most of them necessarily suppurate. This does not take place equally in every gunshot wound, nor in every part of the same wound ; and the difference commonly arises from the variety in the velocity of the body projected; for, wht're the ball has passed with little velocity, which is sometimes the case at its entrance, but still more frequently, at the part last wounded, the injury may sometimes be healed by the first intention. {J. Hunter, Palmer's Edit. p. 543.) [Several instances of wounds healing by the first in- tention, without suppuration, are recorded; in all probability, caused by bullets in rapid flight.] M. H. Larrey, in his account of the gunsliot wounds, which occurred at the siege of the citadel of Antwerp, has recorded several cases where the solutions of continuity were perfectly regular, and more or less like those made by a cutting instrument 1, iT' caused by the fragment of a Shell carried away a portion of the integuments of the chest, leaving a wound of a regular and ellip Ileal shape, resembling that produced by an ampu- wiion of tlie breast. Its sides were brought together ^ h!*?' " cure was speedily accom. Pl'Bhed. (See Hist. Chir. du Siige de la Citadelle GUNSHOT WOUNDS. d'Anvers, p. 138.) [As a general rule, however splinters from shell cause much laceration and are' followed by sloughing and copious suppuration 1 Foreign bodies more frequently lodge in gun- shot wounds than any others, and are commonly of three kinds 1. Pieces of clothing, or other things, which the ball forced before it into the limb. 2 The ball itself. 3. Loose splinters of bone It is only when the ball strikes the naked flesh, touches no bone, and goes quite through the part, that the wound can be free from extraneous matter. Foreign bodies are the cause of numerous unfavourable symptoms, by irritating sensible parts, and exciting pain, inflammation, spasms, haemorrhage, long sup- puration, &c.; and the more uneven, pointed, and hard they are, the more likely they are to produce these evils. Hence, spicula of bone are generally the most to be dreaded, The great obliquity and length of the fissures, produced in the cylindrical bones by musket-balls', are such as are not remarked in any ordinary frac- tures. When I was with the army in Holland, in the year 1814, I had in the hospital at Ouden- bosch, several fatal compound fractures of the thigh, caused by gunshot violence. The fissures in some of these examples were found to extend two-thirds of the length of the bone. This fact is noticed by Mr. Guthrie: " The fractures extend far above and below the immediate part struck by the ball, and, as far as depends upon my information from the examination of limbs that were amputated, farther downwards than upwards; so that, from a fracture in the middle of the thigh, I have often seen fissures extend into the condyles, and cause ulceration of the cartilages of the knee-joint," &c. (On Gunshot Wounds, p. 190.) It is commonly stated that when a cannon-ball tears off a limb, it produces a violent concussion of the whole body, and a genend derangement of all its functions. This, however, is by no means always true. I saw some years ago in London, a young sailor, whose arm had been completely torn off at the shoulder by a cannon-ball from one of the forts at Guadaloupe, in March, 1808 : he suffered no dreadful concussion of his lodj', nor were his senses at all impaired. This case was very remarkable, as the scapula was so shattered, that Mr. Gumming of Antigua, was under the necessity of removing the whole ofit The patient recovered in two months. The axillary artery did not bleed. [Like other injuries, gunshot wounds in unheal thy constitutions are not unfrequently followed bj' in- flammation and deposition of pus in some in- ternal viscus ; more especially the lungs or liver ; or sero-purulent effusion may take place into the cavity of the pleura ; or the neighbouring cellular or muscular tissues may be the seat of these purulent deposits ; or one or more of the joints may become inflamed, and purulent matter be infiltrated into them. The veins leading from the injury are found very generally to be thickened and to contain puriform matters. This unhealthy condition of parts sometimes commences very insidiouslj^; but is ucnerally accompanied with acceleration of the pulse, rigors, copious perspirations, and low typlioid symptoms. When these unfavourable occurrences follow amputation, they are preceded hy an un- healthy aspect or sloughy state of the stump. For further information on this point see the article . Pyemia.]