100 AMPUI with the nerve on its fibular side. Srdly. The pe- roneal; both these arteries being situated behind, between the soleus and tiie deep stratum of mus- cles,—the posterior tibial behind the external edge of the tibia, on the posterior surface of the flexor communis digitorum pedis, and the tibialis pos- ticus; the peroneal behind tlie fibula, amongst the fibres of the long flexor of the great toe. 4thly. Sometimes two or more branches in the calf, termed sural. 5thlj. Now and then the nutrient artery of the tibia. Frequently the anterior tibial artery retracts so far that it cannot be taken up witlioiit first dividing the soft parts concealing it. The occurrence is ascribed by M. Ribes to the double curve which the artery describes to get in front of the interosseous ligament; by M. Gensoul, to the retraction of the artery exceeding that of the muscles which adhere to the bone. When the soft parts have been cut, the bones sawn, and the arteries tied, the wound is to be closed by bringing the flap of the skin over the stump, so as to form a line of wound corresponding to the transverse diameter of the limb. Tliis should be done without letting any tight strap of plaster press the skin against the sharp edge of the tibia; a serious and hurtful practice, which has often occasioned ulceration and sloughing of the integu- ments, and protrusion and necrosis of the bone. It is this danger which led Mr. Guthrie to prefer closing the wound vertically, or nearly so, and ap- plying the adhesive straps from side to side. And where a great deal of skin is saved all round the limb, and the muscles of the calf are not calculated upon for covering the bones, the perpendicular line of the wound will answer very well. The practice is sometimes adopted of sawing off the sharp upper ridge of the tibia. It is advocated by A. C. Hutchison, Marjolin, and Ballard. It has the sanction of Mr. Guthrie, who says that, in thin persons, where the spine of the tibia is very sharp, this part should be removed with the saw (p. 222). In France, the removal of the front angle of the tibia is generally approved. {J. F. Malgaigne, op. cit. p. 291.) Occasionally, surgeons have also removed the small remnant of the fibula, and such was some- times the practice of Larre}', when he amputated nearer the knee than common. {Mem. de Chir. Mil. t. iii. p. 389.) This plan, however, is objectionable, as will be hereafter explained. [The foregoing is the usual method of amputating the leg a hand's breadth below the knee by the cir- cular incision. The late author, however, preferred the following method, wliich is in some measure a combination of the flap and circular operations ; a flap being made from the muscles after the circular division of the skin:]—A circular cut having been made through the integuments, about two inches below the place where it is intended to saw the bones, the next object is to preserve skin enough to cover the front of the tibia, and the part of the stump corresponding to the situation of the tibialis anticus, extensor longus pollicis pedis, and other muscles between the tibia and fibula and those covering the latter bone. Throughout this extent there are no bulky muscles which can be made very serviceable in covering the end of the stump, and consequently the operator must take care to pre- serve sufficient skin in this situation, by dissecting it from the parts beneath and turning it up. On the back part of the leg, on the contrary, the skin should never be uselessly detached to a great extent from the large gastrocnemius muscle, which, with the soleus, will here form a sufficient mass for covering the stump. I am disposed to think it best, however, when the calf is bulk)', to let a small quantity of skin be detached and saved at the back part of the leg, so that there may be a certainty of having enough to cover well the extre- mity of the divided gastrocnemius. As soon as the skin has been separated in front and on the outside of the leg the surgeon is to detach the skin from the calf for about an inch; and having reflected or drawn this preserved portion out of the way, he is to place the edge of the knife close to the edge of the retracted or reflected skin at the back of the limb, and cut obliquely upwards through the muscles of the calf, from the inner edge of the tibia quite across the fibula, supposing the operator to be on the outside of the right leg, and that it is this member which is imdergoing removal. In performing this last incision, as M. Louis well ob- serves, it is essential to incline the edge of the knife obliquely upwards. Thus the skin will be longer than the muscles, and the cure accelerated. {Mem. de VAcad. de Chir. t. v. edit, in 12mo.) The flap, formed of the integuments and muscles of the calf, is then to be held back by one of the assistants, while the surgeon completes the division of the rest of the muscles, together with that of the interosseous ligament, by means of the double- edged knife. Amputation hy an oblique or oval incision.—The method recommended by M. Sedillot consists in dividing the integuments on the outer side of the leg obliquely, from before backwards, and from below upwards. The knife is then carried round the posterior part of the limb to its inner side from behind forwards, and from above downwai'ds. The division of the integuments is next completed in front by a transverse incision, leaving an oval wound, with its anterior angle truncated. The plan adopted by M. Baudens difi^ers onl}' from that of M. Sedillot in making the incision through the skin entirely oval, and letting the knife descend about an inch lower down in front than behind. " One reason," saj's M. Malgaigne, " not men- tioned by any writer, makes me prefer the oval even to the circular method. In the latter, the principle is to leave the integuments sufliciently long on every side to cover one half of the stump. Now the posterior integuments, on the retraction of the muscles, reach the centre of the wound more readily than the integuments in front, whicii have to pass and bend over the end of the tibia. The object then can only be fulfilled by allowing a greater length to the skin in front." {Manuel de Med. Oph: p. 293.) Dr. Panconst slopes the in- cision backward towards the popliteal region, about an inch higher than the incision on the tibia. He has less flabby skin, a neater junction, less suppu- ration, and makes a better stump. (See Reese, Amer. ed. 1851, Appendix, p. 20.) Oval amputation of the leg can never be neces- sary, if care be taken in the other methods to save a sufliciency of the integuments in front of the limb, as advised in the descriptions already given of those operations. . . /'7a;) Amputation of the Zct/.—[Amputation with a single flap cut from the posterior surface was ori- ginally proposed by Verduin, nnd is the method