F 3 The method of amputating the leg with a single flap, cut from the muscles of the calf, which is frequentljr practised in the present day, is, as nearly as possible, the same as that originally adopted by Verdiiin, excepting that a straight, in- stead of a curved knife is now used. Verduin published an account of his operation in 1696, and this has been already referred to in the history of amputation. The knife is passed through the limb from one side to the other, close behind the bones, and is carried do^-nwards in such a manner that in cut- ting its way out a semicircular flap is made of sufficient size to cover completely the whole surface of the stump. The angles of this flap are then united by an incision carried transversely (or with a slight convexity downwards) across the opposite ialf of the limb. Any remaining muscular fibres are then divided transversely at the same level, and the knife is carried between the bones and around each of them in succession, to clear them completely for the appUcation of the saw. Operations with a single large flap, are subject to the disadvantage that the cut edges of skin which are intended to unite with each other do not correspond in their dimensions, the circumference of the flap beino- much longer than the transverse incision to which h IS to be opposed, and some unevenness and puckering IS the inevitable result when they are brought to gether.] AmptUation with two equal flaps, as practised by Vermale, is well adapted for situations where there IS a nearly equal bulk of soft parts on opposite sides of the bone. Vermale, after applying the tourni- quet, surrounded the part with two red threads, at the distance of four finger-breadths from each other; one at the place where the bone was to be sawn • the other at the place where the incision of the flaps was to terminate. He afterwards thrust a lono- bistoury down to the bone, at the fore part of the limb ; turned it round the circumference, so that It might come out at the opposite part; then, di- recting the edge of the knife along the bone, he cut down to the inferior thread, where he completed the first flap, which, as the author says, was of a round or conical figure at its extremity. The second flap was made in a similar way on the infe rior side of the member. The flaps being held back by an assistant, the knife was carried cir cularly round the bone to divide any muscular flbres still adhering to it. This method is essen- tially the same as that which is often practised at the present time, in the thigh and arm. The red threads, however, are dispensed with, and the operator determines with his eye the requisite length for the flaps which ought slightly to exceed the semi-diameter of the limb, supposing two equal flaps arc to be made. _ [Ravaton formed two flaps by first making a circular incision through all the soft parts down to the bone; he then made a vertical incision on each side leading upwards from the circular incision and, like it, extending through all the soft parts down to the bone. The two square flaps thus made were then dissected up. Many surgeons make their flaps more or less square in shape, by keeping the knife close to the bone as it is carried downwards, and then cuttinc abruptly outwards when a sufKcient length has been given lo the flap. Any method, however, is Objectionable which preserves so largo a quantity AMPUTATION. 69 of muscle towards the free border of the flaps; since, if this is done, the edges of the skin cannot be brought together over the muscle without consi- derable difficulty. The most desirable shape for the flaps is that which is obtained by cutting oh- liquchj outwards ; by this means their thickness gradually diminishes from their attached towards their free border, and the free border has an even and regular semicircular edge. In this way also the surfaces of the flaps as well as their edges will be made exactly to correspond. Langenbeck preferred to cut the flaps in the opposite direction, or from the skin towards the bone, thinking their shape could be determined with greater certainty in this way. Mr. Luke forms the first flap by transfixion, and the second by cutting from the skin towards the bone. This plan has the merit of obviating one inconvenience which results from making both flaps by trans- fixion, which is, that the second flap is seldom cut evenly at its edge, for the skin having lost its tension as soon as the first flap is made, is apt to fall in folds under the pressure of the knife, and is more or less notched and mangled in consequence. Mr. Luke transfixes the limb exactly through its centre, -whether this be close to the bone or at some distance removed from it, in order that the two incisions in the skin may be exactly equal to each other, but he considers it important that the surfaces should correspond as well as the ed<Tes, and should be maintained in contact while °the healing is going on. It was for amputation of the thigh that this method was proposed by Mr. Luke but it seems well adapted for almost any situation' and whether the bones are placed at the centre or near the surface of the limb. Mr N Ward in describing it, says, "Whether it is performed on the thigh, leg, arm, or forearm, the cenirc of the limb should always be taken as the point at which the knife is to be passed in, without refe- rence to the bone or bones. Sometimes the knife will be passed m nearer to the bone than at others, this depending on the relative muscular development of the part operated on." (Medical limes and Gazette, Jan. 1852.)] [Amputation by the Oval Incision.] [Tlie oval or dhUqiie wcisioti, described by M Scoutetten, forms an excellent operation for the shoulder and some other joints, but is not often prac- tised m the continuity of the limbs. It difl^ers from the circular nicision, in being made to extend hi.rher up on one side of the limb than on the other and^this extension upwards is commonly made in the direc- lon of the prominence of the articulation, in order to admit of Its more ready and complete'exposuie ftm tr" K''T' i^'^i^io" coming ther Tt:\ ' °^ 'r^' ""'"^d «"ch au'i-rvened ^r"^ ^car^.c. tno oval or erig-shapcd incision. amnuhHr'n '^"'"^Y description of this mode of yW / ";°/eader is referred to the article on s of f'l ^'^'°'^ld^'-'foiul, where it will be sec I, tiiat It IS in some degree a combination of the aoiible flap and circular methods, and possesses many ol the advantages belonging to both. (See 4to )J " ^'^^^"'"d" Ovalairc. Paris, 1027,