402 CAN deeper, and the necrosing agent further introduced, until at last the whole tumor is converted into a dead mass, which is enucleated by a natural process of ulceration (as in the case of a gangrenous limb), and falls out from ten to fourteen days after. If the tumor is not ulcerated, but it is judged requisite to remove it cn masse, the skin covering it is first destroyed with nitric acid. " Cases of an incipient nature, where the disease, though fully developed, is still in a quiescent or dormant state, are often cured by means of absorption. The absorbing agent is the following ointment, Sulphal. Zivci ^vi, Sanguinarice Sij, Myricce coniferi, 5i, Extract, opii aquos., Extr. conii afi 3^1, Ungt. cetaceiZV], M. cl ft. Ungt. In conjunction witii this preparation, I use an ointment of the iodide of lead, generally applying each twelve hours alternately. The fol- lowing is the formula used. lodid. plumbi 3i— Ghjcerimi 5', Ungt, cetacei'^\] M.ft. Ungt. With a steady persevering use of these two ointments, I have often dispersed incipient tumors, which I Lave no doubt were cancerous. These are the external means of treatment I employ, which although in themselves eminently successful, yet I am not content with them alone, but also pay par- ticular attention to the general health, ordering a nourishing and sustaining diet, besides giving in- ternally the puccoon {Sangumaria Canad.) in small and repeated doses. A remedy that exerts so much influence when applied externally must be exhibited with caution, I therefore seldom exceed half-grain doses, three times dail}'. This is given in the powder or decoction ; in tlie former cases I give it either alone or combined with the sixteenth or twentieth of a grain of the iodide of arsenic and one grain of the extract of cicnta made into pills ; or if given in decoction, I generally combine it ■with the fluid extract of taraxacum. The oint- ment of sulphate of zinc I have been in the habit of applying with marked success in cancer of the womb. Unlike the Vienna paste, it can be ap- plied not only with safety, but with impunity, as it does no injury to the adjoining tender parts. I have also used these preparations with marked benefit in cases of lupus, both exedens and non- exedens ; indeed I have never known a case in ■which the judicious use of these remedies has failed. Indolent ulcers have long been an oppro- brium to the profession, from their intractable nature ; in such cases these applications are most efficacious, as I have known phagedenic and in- dolent ulcers of long standing to be speedily and permanently cured in the course of two or three ■weeks." The experience of the surgeons of the Middlesex Hospital, as to the truth of Dr. Fell's pretensions, is to the following effect. (1.) 'nvi Sanguinaria Canai/ensis appears to be practically inert for the purpose of destroying cancer. Dr. Fell himself does not advise its use in internal cancer, or hope- less external. It may be observed that, with the half-grain doses of puccoon, iodide of arsenic was also given. The puccoon, in one case of gastric cancer, I gave internally, but only with the effect of causing some irritation. (2.) Tiie method o{ introducing caustics by gradual incision places in the hands of surgoons an important advantage. Those whose tumors have liitlierto been judged unfit for the use of the knife, or of ordinary caustics, have been subjected to this method with very decided benefit. The shrinking and retrac- tion of the necrosed part brings deep prolongations of the tumor within reach of the paste, which at first appeared hopelessly beyond it. " The average of pain was in these very patients the least ; and nothing could be more striking than the contrast between the distressed condition of such patients before they were treated, and their comparative ease afterwards ; healing sores or temporary scars, taking the place of foetid, tender, discharging, and constantly growing masses of cancer. . . . This plan of treatment is a clear advance upon the past." (3.) As to the tendency to relapse, although there has not j'et been sufficient time to form a complete opinion, yet the present results are such as indicate that the new method has in this respect no superi- ority over the old. " There has already (in barely two months) been a return of the disease in four out of the fourteen cases, and a failure in extir- pating it in three others out of the whole number of twenty-one." It does not appear that any satis- factory evidence was obtained of the absorbing power of the ointment applied by Dr. Fell to tumors in a more quiescent state. The tediousness, and the not unfrequently severe pain, attending Dr. Fell's proceedings, must be ac- counted grave objections to it ; and, for all that yet appears, it cannot for a moment be compared with excision under chloroform, in any case where the tumor is easily accessible to the knife. But in the class of cases specially pointed out by the surgeons of the Middlesex Hospital, the writer can- not but think its employment maybe highlj' bene- ficiah It has been stated that the method of gradual incision is not new, having been used by Justamond, surgeon to the Westminster Hospitiil. The following extract shows what he performed. " In expectation of facilitating this separation, I made a few scarifications on the destroyed surface, and filled the crevices with more of the powder (arsenical), applying over it a pledget of the same kind as the former. But this second application did not, as I imagine, produce any effect, for it caused no pain. I then waited a few days to ob- serve what would happen. The separation began to take place more evidentlj' at the edges, which now looked florid, though the tumor did not yet seem ready to come away. To hasten this event, I judged it proper to put some of the powder all round the separating edges, as low down as il could be insinuated between the diseased gland and the sound skin. I soon found this contrivance had its effect, for the pain it occasioned was more violent than that produced by the first dressing (which was very great). I was, however, obliged to repeat the application of the powder to dilFereiit parts of the edges at intervals, but never in so large a quantity as before. By this method, the separa- tion of tho tumor was effected in little more than two months, and the gland came out as entire as a nut out of its shell, or as if it had been cleanly dissected with a knife." It does not appear that Justamond attached much importance to this pro- cedure, or particularly urged i_ts adoption ; and we do not think it fair to speak of'itas an anticipation of Dr. Fell's. To hiui belongs certainly the credit, whatever it be, of introducing this method of usnig caustics. We would remark that the action ofj the paste is not properly that of a caustic, as it| were burning and destroying the parts it coines m contact with, it is rather a necrosing agent, killing the tissues, and converting them into inert se-'