GRANULATIONS, ration came on ; but on the succeeding daj', I found it vascular, and appearing like healthy granulations." [After Hunter's time, when sur- geons began to occupy themselves with investiga- tions of the minute processes of growth and disease, with ■very imperfect microscopes, there prevailed the idea, derived from Hunter's exaggerated solid- ism, that all organisation depended upon blood- vessels, and was effected by them ; moreover, it was believed that pus globules were altered blood globules, and that the processes of inflammation and repair were to be explained in a mechanical kind of way.] Thus, Mr. J. W. Earle, in his in- quiry into the nature of inflammation, gives the following explanation of the formation of granula- tions. " When the globules of the blood have been effused on the surface of a wound, it is clear that, after a time, their continued passage will have established an immense number of furrows, or canals, in that which was at first merelj'- an amorphous layer or covering of fibrin, which canals must be the continuations of the genuine capillaries, and which, like them, must be wholly unprovided with distinct coats, like larger vessels. In proportion as these channels become established, the fibrinous layer is no longer in its original condition, but is pierced by innumerable perfora- tions, which offer a readier egress to the serum and fibrin, as well as to the globules, so that at length nearly the whole of the discharge from the surface of a wound may find its way through them directly, instead of, as previously, by perco- lation. As the fresh fibrin exudes through the original layer by these channels, or perforations, it will coagulate around them in little heaps, whose central points must be the channels, or continua- tions of the genuine capillaries, through which it had exuded. As, on the one hand, the colouring matter of the globules was lost, in proportion to the difficulty with which they were forced by the pressure of the vis a tergo, through the parenchyma and fibrin, as yet imperforate, so, on the other hand, in proportion now as their passage is facili- tated by the establishment of the above-mentioned canals, the globules will advance further into the fibrin, and approach nearer to the surface of the wound, iviihoul being deprived of their colouring matter. When this period has arrived, the fibrin, which was at first opaque, and of a dirty white colour, has assumed a jelh'-Iike and more trans- parent appearance (in consequence of its combi- nation with the serum, which is constantly passing through it), actually contains real blood, and has every character which pertains to granulations." (See V. . W^. Earle, in Lond. Med. Gaz. 1835, p. 219.) [But Sir E. Home, some years before, had pointed out the real process of exudation, and the formation of pus in it, in opposition to the theory which assumed that pus was but altered blood. He has the merit of showing the identit}' of pus and granulation, a notion ridiculed by Hunterians. (See Phil. Trans, part 1. 1829.) From the time of Hunter to the modern micro- scopic era, the following were the doctrines usually taught respecting granulations.] The surfaces of granulations are very convex, the reverse of ulcer- ation, and they present a great many small points, or eminences, so as to appear rough. The smaller such points are, the more healthy the granulations. The colour of healthy granulations is a deep florid red. When livid, they are unhealthy, and have only a languid circulation. Healthy granulations on an exposed or flat surface, rise nearly even with the surface of the surrounding skin, and often a little higher ; but when they exceed this, and take on a growing disposition, thev are unhealthy become soft, spongy, and have no disposition to form skin. Healthy granulations are always prone to unite to each other, so as to be the means of uniting parts. They are not endowed with the same powers as originally formed parts. Hence they more readily ulcerate, and mortify. The curious mode in which granulations contract, when sores are healing and even for some time after they are healed, has'been explained in the article Cicatrisation. (See Hunter on the Blood, Lifammation, <fx v 473 et seq. 1794.) i- ' ' It was a question whether granulations can ever be formed without suppuration. Mr. Hunter seemed inclined to think that they may occasion- ally be produced without it, and he supported his opinion by the relation of the dissection of a limb which had suffered a compound fracture, and in which he observed a substance resembling granu- lations. Dr. John Thompson, on the other hand, declares that he has never seen any granulation, and' still less a granulating surface, where pus was not formed. (See Lectures on hiflammation, p. 408.) The exact process by which the blood-vessels, nerves, and absorbents of granulations are formed, is still amongst the secrets of nature. The obser- vations of Mr. Hunter on the subject amount only to conjecture. " The growth of nerves, and their development in granulations (says Dr. J. Thomp- son), is a subject of equal curiosity with the growth of blood-vessels in the same structure. Their existence in granulations is proved by the pain which is felt on our pinching, rubbing, or wiping the surface of a sore. Even the granula- tions which arise from the surface of bone are sensible ; and the same granulations are in the course of a few hours provided not only -\vith blood-vessels and nerves, but also with a system of absorbents. The existence of absorbents in granulations is proved, not only by the changes of bulk which we see them daily undergo, becomin" gradually, in the healthy state, smaller, firmer, and more compact, but also by the frequent disappear- ance, in whole or in part, of a granulating surface, by the process of ulcerative absorption." (See Thompson's Lectures on Lnfammation, p. 419.) According to Sir Astley Cooper, granulations which spring from parts endued with great sensi- bility, like muscles, are extremely sensitive; but granulations which arise from bones, he says, have no sensibility whatever. These observations are qualified with the condition, that the bone be uninflamed, and it is acknowledged that granu- lations, arising from the cancellated structure of bones, are sometimes extremely sensitive. He describes granulations from tendons as quite in- sensible, and those from aponeuroses and fascia as possessing very little sensihilitj'. Every j'oung dresser of sores at an hospital, who has been too lavish of the red precipitate ointment, must have learned from experience that granulations are furnished with absorbent vessels, and that mer- cury may be absorbed from the surface ol ulcers, and bring on an unwished-for salivation of the patient. Indeed, the Hljsorbent power of granula- tions is frequently the means of producing baneful