9*6 HERNIA passes through the neck of the sac to be com- pressed into a hard, smooth body, and lose all appearance of caul, while what is below in the scrotum is loose and expanded, and enjoys its na- tural texture. In this case, reduction is often im- possible, from the mere figure of the part; and I have so often seen this, both in the living and the dead, that I am satisfied that, for one omental rupture rendered irreducible by adhesions, many more become go from the cause above mentioned." {Pott.) Upon the whole, this author infers that an in- testinal rupture is subject to worse symptoms, and a greater degree of hazard, than an omental one, though the latter is by no means so void of either as it was formerly supposed to be; that bad symp- toms are more likely to attend a recent rupture than one of ancient date; that the descent of a very small piece of intestine is more hazardous than that of a larger; and that the hernia which consists of gut only is in general attended with worse circumstances than that which is made up of both gut and omentum. (See also Lawrence, On Hupinres, p. 75, 76, ed. 4.) Mr. Hey coincides with Pott in thinking the prognosis more unfavourable when the tumor is small. " I think it is not a bad general rule, that the smaller the hernia the less hope there is of re- ducing it by the taxis. Long-continued efforts to reduce a prolapsed intestine are most likely to succeed in old and large hernias when no ad- hesions have taken place." {Pract. Observ. in Surgery, p. 203.) It is correctly remarked by Mr. Lawrence that "the danger is greatest when a rupture is incar- cerated (strangulated) at the moment of its forma- tion. Hernise which arise spontaneously, and merely from predisposing weakness, seldom be- come strangulated; the stricture, in such cases, is never close, nor are the symptoms violent, be- cause the parts concerned are weak and relaxed. The opening through which the parts protrude is narrower in some situations than in others. The progress of the case will therefore be more rapid, and the danger of the patient more urgent. The aperture is generally very small in femoral hernia. This kind of rupture in men, and the bubonocele in women, have a particularly narrow entrance. On the same grounds, femoral, inguinal, and um- bilical ruptures are more dangerous than the ven- tral, perineal, or vaginal kinds." {On Ruptures, p. 75, ed. 4.) Treatment of a Hernia capable of easy and immediate reduction, and not at- tended with any troublesome or bad Symptoms. Here the first indication is to reduce the pro- truded viscera without delay, and to prevent them from descending again by the application of n suitable truss. As soon as the parts are returned the truss should be immediately put on, and worn without remission, care being taken, especially if the patient be an infant, to keep the parts upon which It presses regularly waslied, to prevent gall- ifS- The truss ought to fit properly, for one which does not press enough is worse than none an, !i8 It occasions loss of time, and deceives patient or his friends; and one which presses and 'tv^ 11 """i."" improper part, gives pain ^ tiouble, by producing an inflammation and at the too much swelling of the spermatic cord, and sometimes of the testicle. " In adults whose ruptures are of long standing, and accustomed to frequent descent, the hernial sac is generally firm and thick, and the aperture in the tendon of the abdominal muscle large. The freedom and ease with which the parts return into the belly when the patient is in a supine posture, and the little pain which attends a rupture of this kind, often render the persons who labour under it careless; but all so circumstanced should be in- formed that they are in constant danger of such al- teration in their complaint as may put them into great hazard, and perhaps destroy them. The pas- sage from the belly being open, the quantity of in- testine in the hernial sac is always liable to be increased, and, when down, to be bound by a stric- ture. An inflammation of that portion of the gut which is down, or such obstruction in it as may distend and enlarge it, may at all times produce such complaints as may put the life of the patient in imminent danger; and therefore, notwithstand- ing this kind of hernia may have been borne for a great length of time without having proved either troublesome or hazardous, j'et, as it is always possible to become so, and that very suddenly, it can never be prudent or safe to neg- lect it. " Even though the rupture should be of the omental kind (which, considered abstractedlj', is not subject to that degree or kind of danger to which the intestinal is liable), yet it may be se- condarily, or by accident, the cause of all the same mischief; for while it keeps the mouth of the hernial sac open, it renders the descent of a piece of intestine always possible, and consequent]}' always likely to produce the mischief which may proceed from thence." Mr. Pott comments upon the importance of having the parts completely reduced before the truss is applied, and upon the danger that may be incurred by laying such instrument aside after it has been worn some time, since the partial closure of the passage, whereby the descent of the bowel is rendered less easy, will also make the reduction more difficult, if a piece should happen to slip down; and hence he insists that a truss " should be long and unremittiiiglj' worn hy fill those whose time of life makes the expectations of a perfect cure reasonable, manj' of the ruptures of adults depending upon the negligent manner in which children at school are suffered to wear their trusses." (See Truss.) Besides the danger of strangulation and the loss of all chances of a spontaneous radical cure, when a reducible hernia is neglected, and allowed to remain down, there are other motives for keep- ing up the tumor with a truss. The vast size to which neglected hernia; sometimes increase not only prohibits all active exertion, but, by involv- ing in the male the integuments of the penis, in- capacitates the patient from the act of copulation, and gives rise to excoriation from the discharge of the urine over the swelling. Probablj', too, the testis may be affected by the pressure of a very large scrotal hernia. {}\forgngni, De Cans, ct Sed. ep. xxxiii. art. 12 ; Schnucker, Vcrmischic Chi' Schriften, b. iii. p. 195.) Disorders of the in tcstinal functions invariably attend these larg ruptures, and increase in frequency and violenc in proportion to the size of the swelling and nge o