consists of gases, water containing chloride of sodium and many other saline and mineral sub- stances in solution, albumen, fibrin, crystallisable and uncrystallisable oleaginous principles, a num- ber of undefined substances classed as extractives, and colouring matters ; these exist, during life, as a liquid vitalised plasma or liquor sanguinis, and or- ganic corpuscles, which together constitute the blood. This remarkable fluid receives and elaborates the materials for the nutrition of every structure in the body, and, also, either for renovated use or elimina- tion, the effete particles set free by the disintegration of all the tissues. It is continually supplied witli sub- stances which serve as fuel for the production of ani- mal heat. In it the operation of the laws of the mu- tual convertibility of the physical and vital forces is pre-eminently exhibited; and some of the most energetic of the inorganic elements of matter, the oxygen of the atmosphere especially, become fixed and arranged into compounds. It is not only in constant rapid motion, as a mass, at a rate of fi-om twelve to sixty feet per second, but this movement imparts an intestine motion, by which each corpuscle moves and is kept separate from the rest; and it is the seat of molecular transformations, " the iraion and disunion of its elements being ceaseless, and never subsiding into the quiescence of chemical so- lution." It is possessed of an inherent life, and is above all other substances during life " the active locomotive state of organised matter as contradis- tinguished from the more passive and sedentary solid." {Dr. Williams, lib. cit.) It contains botli binary and quaternary compound radicals, and various isomeric or conformable bodies, as the hydrocarbons and protein ; many of the substances which enter into it passing through progressive metamorphoses both ascensive and retrograde. It is capable of homologous catalysis, having a power of assimilation within itself; its organic principles producing like organic principles, and, as in vege- table organisms, it exhibits allotropic transmutations of its constituents. Its red and white corpuscles are in a continual state of disintegration and re- newal, being reproduced very rapidly when their number is greatly diminished, provided the liquor sanguinis contain the proper materials. The organic bases of the solids, represented chemically by albumen, fibrin and fatty principles, as also their inorganic elements, are derived from the blood plasma ; and, although, in the act of nutrition, these principles are modified, this act may almost be defined as the transmutation of these substances into the solid structures. Many of the processes continually taking place in the blood are of the na- ture of eremacausis or combustion, by which it mamtains its own temperature ; this being, in the human body, about 100° b"' to 101° 75' Fah., which is essential to the continuance of its own vital processes, to the reciprocal interchange of molecules between the intravascular liquor san- guinis and the cxtravascular pnrencliymatous liuids, and to its circulation. The blood is ac- cordingly one principal site of the developcment of animal heat. Free electricity appears also to result from most of these processes ; as from the union of oxygen with carbon, the eremacausis of hydrogen, phosphorus and sulphur, or the de- composition of chloride of sodium ; and the acidity of the muscular fluids with the alkalinity of the blood gives rise to myriads of electric cur- rents (MaUeiicci, Liebiy). A sound condition of BLOOD, PATHOLOGY OF, 329 the vital organs, the regular and energetic per- formance of their functions, the developement of the nervous and muscular powers, of consciousness and thought, are maintained only by an unceasing supply of healthy blood. When the blood fails to undergo its active metamorphoses and the con- tinual change of matter common to it and the or- ganised solids, it dies. So long as the constitution of the blood is in harmonious relation to that of the more stationary organs and structures, the proportions of its che- mical constituents and organic principles varying only within the physiological range, and its vital functions being energetically and regularly per- formed, it may be regarded as healthy. But apart from the recorded observations of surgeons of all ages, the more precise investigations of modern physiologists and chemists have proved, in- con testably, that it is subject to the most remark- able changes in these respects ; and that the devi- ations from the chemical and physical standards of health, detected on analysis, are unequivocal ex- ponents of functional disturbances and organic diseases of the blood itself while it circulates in the vessels. In the difi'erent temperaments, devia- tions from the physiological standard of the con- stituents of the blood influence surgical cases. Thus, in the sanguine temperament, the solid con- stituents and the corpuscles are in excess, and in the lymphatic temperament they are diminished, corresponding with the most marked difi'erences of constitution. These operate as predispositions to certain aff'ections, and modify the vital processes, both reparative and destructive, in injuries, oper- ations and diseases. The developement and nu- trition of every organ and tissue being depend- ent on the presence in the blood of a substance which may be regarded as its analogue, every deficiency in quantity, or defect of composition, in such analogue, is essentially a diseased state of the blood. So again, Treviranus remarked that " each single part of the body, in respect of its nutrition, stands to the whole body in the relation of an excreted substance ;" and accordingly, the failure, not only of any organ of secretion, but of any tissue in its nutrition, to remove the particles which are prepared there for ulterior use or for elimination may become the cause of a diseased condition of the blood. Morbid conditions of the blood, pro- diiced by these and numerous other causes, which will be adverted to in the progress of this .nrticle may give rise to functional disturbances in any part of the system, and lay the foundation of organic diseases in the solid structures. Diseases may originate in the blood, or may be disse- minated and propagated in every living tissue through the blood, and although tliey may fre- quently commence in the more solid structures and this IS particularly the case with some suroical diseases, yet, whether their origin bo in the solids or the (inuls, " they cannot be long limited to either but must bo very quickly extended to both." The symptoms, progress, and terminations, of almost all the diseases that come under the treatment of the surgeon, the liealing of wounds, the results of accidents and operations, and the action of remedies, arc directly influenced by the quan- tity of blood circulating in the body, by its dis- tribution to particular parts, and by "its healthy or diseased condition. The disorganisations and diseases of tlio solids produced by morbid condi-