thrown upon the condyles of the" os fcnioris with tlie knee bent. (On Dislocations, B. Coopcr''s edit. p. 244.) M. Malgaigne has more frequently found fracture in this situation caused by direct violence, and taking a transverse instead of an oblique direc- tion, though he admits that when it is caused in- directly, in the way Sir A. Cooper describes, it is more frequently oblique. In young persons a se- paration of the epiphysis may take place. Jn a case of this kind in a child eleven years old, mentioned by Malgaigne, the superior fragment was carried backwards, and after amputation it was found that the condyles were placed in front of the shaft of the bone, and turned so that their articular surface looked forwards.] Treatment.—Three very different methods of treating fractured thighs are followed. In one, which was recommended by Hippocrates, and is preferred by a vast number of surgeons, the limb is kept in the straight or extended position. In another, the limb is laid upon its side, with the knee bent ; a mode which was extolled by Pott, and has had many partisans in this country. To these two positions for fractured thighs is to be added that in which the patient lies upon his back, with his thigh and leg in the bent position, supported on two oblique planes, or surfaces, the apex or angle of which is beneath the ham. That Pott lost sight of certain ;ulvantages of the straight position; that he was blind to the imper- fections of the bent posture ; and that he exagger- ated the power, which we have, of relaxing all the muscles of a limb by position; few reflecting sur- geons of the present day will be inclined to deny. Were we to believe the literal sense of several pass- ages in Pott's Remarks upon Fractures, we should suppose it practicable to relax at once, by a certain posture of the limb, every muscle connected with a fractured bone. In the first vol. of his works, page 389, edit. 1783, he observes, in speaking of what must best answer the purpose of incapaci- tating the muscles from displacing the fracture: " Is it not obvious that putting the limb into such position as shall relax the whole set of muscles be- longing to, or in connexion with, the broken bime, must best answer such purpose?" and, in the next page, " What is the reason why no man, however Euperficially acquainted with his art, ever finds much trouble i)i setting a fractured os humeri ? is it not because both patient and surgeon concur in puttiog the arm into a state of flexion, that is, into such a state as relaxes all the muscles surrounding the broken bone?" Also, in page 393, he con- tinues, " Change of posture must be the remedy, or rather, the placing the limb in such manner as to rel.'ix all its nniscles." Putting out of |)rescnt consideration the disputed point, whelher the re- laxed state of a muscle is really the most efficient for the prevention of those spasms which displace a fracture, and occasion vast sulFt ring (see ./. Houston, in JJuUin .fourn. of Med. Science, vol. viii. p. 4.59), the possibility of perfectly relaxing all the muscles of the limb l)y any position, so hmg as different muscles have different uses, dilferent situ- ations, and dilferent attachments to the bone.i, every one nuist grant to be only a visionary project. For instance, do not the patient and surgeon, in the case of fractured os humeri, adverted to above, concur in putting the fibres of the triceps and an- coneus into a state of tension, at the same moment that they relax the biceps and brachinlis anticus. :URE-. ' 747 The position of the fractured os femoris, says Pott, should be on its outside, resting on the great trochanter; the patient's whole body should be inclined to the same side; the knee should be in a middle state between perfect flexion and extension, or half-bent; the leg and foot, lying on their out- side also, should be well supported by smooth pil- lows, and should be rather higher in their level than the thigh; one very broad splint of deal, hol- lowed out and well covered with wool, rag, or tow, should be placed iinder the thigh, from above the trochanter, quite below the knee; and another, somewhat shorter, should extend from the groin to below the knee on the inside, or rather in this.pos- ture on the upper side. The bandage should be of the eighteen-tail kind; and when the bone has been set, and the thigh well placed on the pillow, it should not, without necessity (which necessity in this method will seldom occur), he ever moved from it again until the fracture is united; and this union will always be accomplished in more or less time, in propoition as the limb shall have been more or less disturbed. Here only two splints are mentioned; but the few surgeons who still adopt this method usually employ four. After placing the patient in the above position, the necessary extension is to be made. Then the under splint, having upon it a broad soft pad, and an eighteen-tailed bandage, is to be laid under the thigh, from the great trochanter to the outer condyle. The surgeon, before laying down the tails of the bandage, and putting on the other three splints, is to take care that the fracture lies as evenly as possible. In the foregoing observations, we find Pott directing the leg and foot to be rather higher in their level than the thigh; with what particular design, I have not myself been able to make out. Whoever meditates upon the consequence of ele- vating the leg and foot above the level of the thigh, in the bent position, will know that it is to twist the condyles of the os femoris more outward than is natural. When a patient is placed, according to Pott's direction, upon a common bod, the middle soon sinks so much that the leg becomes situated considerably higher than the thigh, and I am dis- posed to think that this is one cause why so many- broken thighs were formerly united with the foot permanently distorted outward. Fractured thighs should always be laid upon beds not likely to sink much. When this happens, no rational dependence can be put in the efficacy of the bent position, and, as Desault has explained, the same thing is hurtful also in the straight posture. Pott's position certainly leaves the leg and foot too movable and unsiip])orted, and, though it may relax the muscles which have the greatest power to disturb the coaptation of a fractured thigh, it leaves a mass of muscle unrelaxod, quite suflicient to dis- place the ends of the bone. Hence, practitioners should endeavour to improve the apparatus em- ployed, so that it may make a permanent resistnucn to the action of the muscles, and in the straight position such resistance may undoubtedly be nuide to operate with most elfect and convenience. In the early editiims of this Dictionary, I ex- pressed a preference to Pott's method of treating broken thighs. More experience, however, made me a convert to tlie sentiments of Desault on this subject. The terrible compound fractured thighs which I had under my care in the campaign in