220 ANEURISM. p. From direct pressure on the bronchus. In these cases there is wlieezing cough, and some degree of expectoration, with probably diminished respiratory murmur in the side affected, and puerile respiration in the opposite lung, as has been pointed out by Dr. Stokes. y. From pressure upon the lung. In these cases the respiration is comparatively little interfered with, the spongy tissue of the lung accommodating itself and yielding to the pressure of the tumor. After a time the pulmonic tissue will become in- corporated with the wall of the sac, and then more serious difficulty of breathing, with haemoptysis, will supervene. 5. Dyspncea may be, and very commonly is, induced by the irritation, compression, flatten- ing out, or stretching of the left vagus and re- current laryngeal nerves, by the pressure of the tumor. In these cases the larynx becomes the seat of the difficult respiration, its muscles being thrown into a state of spasm, so as to occasion paroxysmal attacks of intense difficulty of breathing. The voice becomes hoarse, croupy, or croaking. The cough has a hard, croupy, or metallic sound, and is attended by the expectoration of a thin frothy mucus. The laryngeal spasm and stridor often does not occur in ordinary respiration, but is produced under exertion, or in making the pa- tient respire fidly and deeply. The laryngeal symptoms are sometimes so much more prominent than any of the other signs of intra-thoracic aneu- rism, and so closely resemble chronic, or even acute, laryngitis with supervening asphyxia, that there are not a few cases in which surgeons have performed tracheotomy, on the supposition that they had to do with cases of pure and uncomplicated laryngeal disease, and in other instances this ope- ration has been performed with the view of pro- longing life, even when the dependence of the hiryngeal spasm on aneurism of the aorta has been recognised. e. Dyspncea may be dependent on the com- pression of the pulmonary veins by the aneu- rismal tumor. In such cases as these there would be considerable lividity of surface, and signs of pulmonary congestion. The dyspnoea of aneurism will often be suffi- ciently intense to occasion death. It may be mistaken for ordinary asthma. But the diagnosis may usually be effected by observing that in aneurism the dyspnoea of the paroxysms often comes on in the day as well as at niglit; are greatly increased by change of position, placing the patient either upriglit or recumbent, the tumor thus shifting its point of pressure. It is not, as Dr. Bellingham has pointed out, influenced by atmospheric changes, and is generally associated with laryngeal stridor. When such symptoms as these are associated with pain and dysphagia, they point very strongly, even in the absence of all auscultatory signs, to the presence of an aneu- rismal tumor. Aneurisms situated within the concavity of tlic aortic arch are those that, either directly by their pressure on the air tube or the pulmonary veins, or indirectly by the influence tliey exercise on the recurrent laryngeal nerve, are cliiefly associated with dyspnaia. 3. Diji'phafjia is a symptom of siifHcicntly fre- quent occurrence in aortic aneurism, Dr. Circen having determined its existence in nine out of twelve cases. It seldom occurs, however, in tlic earlier stages of the disease, or when the aneurism is small, and hence is of much less diagnostic value than dyspncea. When, however, it is associated with that symptom, the combination becomes im- portant, as the co-existence of the the two condi- tions clearly points to the compression of the oesoph.agus and the air tubes by a tumor, which other diagnostic signs may prove to be aneurismal. It is of importance to bear in mind, that in some aneurisms, especially of the descending thoracic aorta, dysphagia may be one of the most nuirked signs. In such cases as these, stricture of the oesophagus has erroneously been supposed to exist, and the patient has even been treated by the in- troduction of bougies on this supposition ; an error of practice that has terminated fatally by the perforation of the aneurismal sac, when projecting against the ossophagus, by the point of the instru- ment. The difficulty of deglutition in cases of compres- sion of the oesophagus by aortic aneurism is always invariably referred to the epi-sternal notch. The dysphagia is commonly associated with pain, or the sensation of a tight cord drawn around the body. 4. CEdema, with more or less lividity of the upper extremities, and head and neck, occasionally, but rarely, occurs. 11 is generally more marked on the left side, and arises from the compression of the superior cava or the innominate veins, by aneurisms springing from the fore or upper part of the arcii. Pulsation and tumor in intra-thoracic aneurisms, so far as they are observable externally, are always absent in the earlier stages of the disease, and very frecjuently continue so throughout the progress of the affection. Indeed, in aneurisms springing from the intra-pericardial aorta, or the concavity of the arch, death usually takes place, either by rupture into one of the serous cavities, or the air tube, or by the exhaustion induced by dyspnoea long before the aneurism has attained a sufficient size to be cognisable externally. There are, however, three portions of the thoracic aorta which, when affected by aneurism, yield external evidence, by the ex- istence of pulsation or tumor, of the true nature of the disease. These are—1. The anterior aspect of the ascending aorta ; 2. The sunnnit of the .arch ; and 3. The posterior aspect of the descending aorta. When the aneurism is situated in the anterior aspect of the ascending aorta and conmiencement of the arch, pulsation may be detected by pressure between the intercostal spaces on the right side of the sternum, and a thrill, as well as distinct im- pulse, may often be felt over that side of the chest, before any external tumor becomes visible, thus simulating the beat of the heart in addition, and opposite to the seat of the true cardiac impulse. As the anemism increases in magnitude, an exter- nal tumor appears by tiie wall of the chest be- coming absorbed and perforated opposite the point of greatest impulse. . When an aneurism springs from the summit ol the arch, a pulsating tumor appears at the root of the neck, behind, or even above the margin of the sternum,most commonly towards the riglit side; and it occasionally rises so high out of the tliorax, and is so distinctly felt in the neck, as to run the risk of being confounded with aneurism of the brachio- cephalic or carotid arteries ; an error that may be