790 ... , GONORRHCEA. venereal ; by which means the venereal ia Hp stroyed and lost, and the disease cured a thongt nfer^l" discharge may still be kept'np byT in ecfon ; eftects, ho«'ever, which will soon go ofF, when the ejection is laid aside. In this way bougies also perform a cure. Most of the irritating injections have an astringent effect. Irritating or stimulating injections should never be used when there is considerable inflammation present ; especially in constitutions which are known to be incapable of bearing much irritation ■ nor should they be used when the inflammation has spread beyond the specific distance ; nor when the testicles are tender ; nor when, upon the dis- charge ceasing quickly, these parts have become sore ; nor when the perineeum is very susceptible of inflammation, and especially if it formerly should have suppurated ; nor when there is a tendency in the bladder to irritation, known by the frequency of making water. In mild cases, and in constitutions which are not irritable, such injections often succeed, and remove the disease almost immediately The practice, however, ought to be attempted with caution, and not, perhaps, till milder methods have Jailed. Two grains of the bichloride of mercurv, dissolved in eight ounces of distilled water, form a 2V f ?™"lating injection ; but an injection of only half this strength may be used when it is not intended to attempt a cure so quickly. If, how- ever the injection, even in that proportion, gives considerable pain in its application, or occasions a great increase of pain in making water, it should be further diluted. Sedative injections will always be of service, when the inflammation is considerable, and they are very useful in relieving the pain. Perhaps the best sedative is opium, as well when given by the mouth, or anus, as when applied to the part aifected,_in the form of an injection. But even opium will not act as a sedative in all constitutions and parts ; but, on tlie contrary, often has opposite etiects, producing great irritability. Lead may be reckoned a sedative, so far as it abates inflam- mation, while attlie same time it acts as a gentle astringent. Fourteen grains of acetate of lead, in 3vnj. of distilled water, make a good sedative astringent injection. Drinking freely of diluting liquors may have a seaative effect, as it in part removes some of the causes of irritation, by rendering the urine less stimulating to the bladder when the irritation is tneie, and to the urethra in its passage through it. itie vegetable mucilages of certain seeds and plants, and the emollient gums are recommended. Jvir. i-iunter does not entertain much opinion of their eflicacy, though some of Jiis patients told liim that they experienced less uneasiness in niakine water when tlieir drink was impregnated with ■mucilaginous substances. tl,^"^"'''"' "'J"t'0"3 are the most proper, when Zt very severe ; and they probably ll en fpn • "'"Pl^ ''""'^''"S away the matter, and he sinXf '"^ «PPji'^""on to the part, so as to 2 a soLt?' "T'- P^--"=" °« Vroyes this) sweet o 'n°^ arabic, milk and water, o sympto^ ' ^''''"^ the pain and other The irritation at the orifice of the urethra is frequently so great that the point of the syringe cannot be suffered to enter. In this case nn injection should be used till the inflammation has S empfoye"!" """^'"^ chai'e"Th' ^'^'JyJ^sening the dis- 3 A '"''y t°^vards the m d f disease, and when it has become mild. But if the disease should begin mildly they may be used at the very beginning ; for, by gradually lessening the discharge, without increas- ing the inflammation, we complete the cure, and prevent a continuance of the discharge caUed gleet J.he apprehension that injections give a ten- dency to inflamed testicle and stricture, has lessened very much the frequency of their use- though It IS to be suspected, with regard to' strictures, that the long continuance of the dis- charge will be more likely than the injection to produce them. This opinion has been entertained by many good and experienced practitioners, and J observe that it is professed by Mr. Wallace {0:i Ven. Dis. p. 251.) While much morbid sensibility exists, this gentleman prefers an in- jection, composed of 15 grs. of nitrate of silver to an ounce of water. When the sensibility has been lessened, he uses an injection of half a grain of bichloride of mercury to an ounce of water or a grain and a half of the sulphate of copper- or acetate of zinc. ' On the principle of gonorrhrea being manifestly an inflammatory disorder, it is at first mostly treated at the present day by antiphlogistic means. In this country, however, we rarely take blood trom the arm, unless the complications of the case require it, as may happen when the inflammation exceeds the specific distance, retention of urine comes on, or inflammation of the testicle occurs. In severe cases, leeches may be applied to the perinaium; and the patient use the warm bath, hip bath, or bidet, under the influence of which he will be able to discharge his urine with com- paratively little pain or difficult}-. If there exists a state of active inflammation,'Mr. Wallace ap- plies leeches to tlie perinaaum, or to the body of the penis, or to the internal surface of the prepuce, or to theglans in the neighbourhood of the frrenum. " The leech-bites may be covered with a cataplasm, and allowed to bleed as long as convenient. When we wish to stop the bleeding, this may be done "by touching the wounds made by the leeches with a pointed piece of nitrate of silver. Any ecchymosis produced in the penis or scrotum by the application of leeches quickly disappears." If the patient prefers it, Mr. Wallace sanctions puncturing one or more of the veins on the dorsum penis. (See WalLica on Von. Dis. p. 247.) If any distress continue after the antiphlogistic treatment has been persisted in for a day or two, he observes that the greatest advantage will be derived from lull doses of opium and henbane, combined with calomel. In the intervals between tlie periods of using the warm bath, the penis, scrotum, and perinajum, should be fomented with a decoction of poppy heads. The bowels are to be kept open; a stimulating diet avoided ; and mucilaginous diluent beverages taken freely, with the view of rendering the secretion of the urine more abundant, jind its quality less irritating to the urethra.