^•0- EAR iiuditorius externus ; and, wlien this is the case it IS evident that the discharge is connected \v\th an injury, or destruction of the menibrana tyin- pani. However, when the Eustachian tube is obstructed_ with mucus, or matter, or when it is rendered impervious, and permanently closed by inflammation, the membrana tympani may not be perfect, and yet, it is clear, no uir can in this state be forced out of the external ear in the above manner. An examination with a blunt probe, or with the eye, while the rays of the sun fall into the passage, should therefore not be omitted. If the membrane have any aperture in it, the probe will pass into the cavity of the tympanum, and the surgeon feel that his instrument is in contact with the ossicula, or internal wall of the tympanum. In this manner, the affection may be discrimi- nated from an herpetic ulceration of the meatus auditorius externus. The causes are various : In scarlatina maligna, the membrana tympani occa- sionally inflames and sloughs ; the ossicula are all or in part discharged, and, if the patient live, he often continues quite deaf. An earach, in other words, acute inflammation of the tympanum, is the niost common occasion of suppuration in this cavitv in which, and the cells of the mastoid process, "a good deal of pus collects. At length the membrana tympani ulcerates, and a large quantity of matter is discharged ; but. as the secretion of pus still goes on, the discharge continues to ooze out of the external ear. [In cases where the membrana tympani is absent, the use of the artificial membrana tympani has been suggested by Mr. Toynbee—cotton wool by Mr. Yearsley.] Instead of stimulating applications, inflamma- tion of the tympanum demands the rigorous em- ployment of antiphlogistic means. Unfortunatel}^, it is a too common practice, in this case, to have recourse to acrid spirituous remedies. Above all things, the repeated application of leeches to the skin behind the external ear, and over the mastoid process, should never be neglected. As soon as the inflammation ceases, the degree of deafness, occa- sioned by it, will also disappear. This, however, does not alvvaj's happen. When an abscess is situated in the cavity of the tympanum, Mr. Saunders thinks that the mem- brana tympani should not be allowed to burst by ulceration, but be opened by a small puncture. (P. 3].) However, unless there were tlie strongest ground for believing, that the Eustachian tube were impervious, this advice, I think, ought not to be followed, more especially as the symptoms are generally too vague to afford any degree of certainty in the diagnosis. Sometimes the disease, of which we are treating, is more insidious in its attack : slight paroxysms of pain occur, and are relieved by slight discharges. The case goes on in this wa}', until, at last, a con- tinual discharge of matter from the ear fakes place. The disorder in its tendency is destructive to the faculty of hearing, and it rarely stops until it has so much disorganised the tympanum and its con- tents as to occasion total dealhess. Hence, Mr. baunders insists upon the propriety of making attempts to arrest its progress,— attempts which aie tree from danger ; and he censures the foolisli lear ol niterternig with tlie comphiint, founded on the apprehension, that bad constitutional oftects may orjgmate from stopping the discharge. If the case be neglected, the tympanum is very ikely to become carious ; before which chaime, nttirrabirto stages ■^""l"''a '^^''^'^ ^''"'Pl^intinto three stages.— 1. A snnplo puiiform discharge 2 A purifonn discharge con.plicated with Lgi and polypi, o. A punfom discharge with caries of the tympanum. As the disease is local, direct applications to the parts atJected are chijfly en- titled 0 confidence. Blisters and setons maj^also he advantageously employed. Mr. Saunder'a p.actice consisted in administering laxative medi- cines and fomenting the ear, while inflammatory ymptoms lasted, and afterwards inj acting a solu- tion of the sulphate of zinc, or acetate of lead In the second stage, when there were fungi, he removed or destroyed them with forceps, afterwards touched their roots with the nitrate of silver, or injected a solution of alum, sulphate of zinc, or nitrate of silver. Writers describe a relaxed state of the mem- brana tympani, as a cause of deafness. If, savs a late author, after a discharge from the meatus auditorius externus, or cavity of the tympanum, or a dropsy of the latter cavity, the hearing re- mains hard, there is reason to suspect, that the infirmity may depend upon relaxation of the mem- brane ol the tympanum, or paralysis of the internal muscle ot the malleus. This suspicion will be strengthened, if the deafness should increase in damp, and lessen in dry, weather ; and particularly, It It be found, that the hearing is benefited by in- troducing into the ear dry warm tonic applications, such as the smoke of burning juniper-berries, or other astringent vegetable substances. The decoc- tion of bark, used as an injection, is also said to have done good. Tlie relaxation of the tympanum, alleged to pro- ceed from a rupture of the muscle of the malleus, is deemed mcurable ; but it is not so with the case, which depends upon paralysis of this muscle. Here tonic injections into the tympanum, through the Eustachian tube, are recommended. {Did. des iczences Med. t. xxxviii. p. 50.) Electricity, stimulating liniments, gargles, a blister, or the ex- ternal use of strychnia, might also be tried. Imperfect hearing is supposed sometimes to arise from preternatural tension of the membrane of the tympanum, indic;ited by the patient hearing better in wet than dry weather, and by his hearing what IS spoken in a low tone, near his ear, better than anything said in a loud manner. The opinions delivered by writers on the causes of this afFection are only uncertain conjectures. The local treat- ment recommended consists in injecting into t'le meatus auditorius emollient decoctions" or warm milk, or introducing into the passage a dossil of soft cotton, dipped in oil of sweet almonds. No- thing certain is known respecting the proper con- stitutional treatment, as must be clear from onr ignorance of the causes of this form of disease of the Hardness of hearing appears sometimes to be caused by a chronic thickening of the membrane of the tympanum ; and it is alleged, that there are cases of tins description, which proceed from syphilis, and require mercury. An issue in the arm nearest the alfccted ear, the tincture of iodine, and emollient and slightly stimulant injections, are likewise commended. When the tympanum