converted into cancer, and then its surface is ex coriated. If the superficial ulcer thus formed deepen, it does so "like a common chronic ulcer, deepening by sloughing or acute inflammation." In the second form, softening of the cancer occurs in the interior of its mass, whether as the result of simple or inflammatory degeneration, and the soft- ened material, when discharged, leaves a deep ex- cavated ulcer. The edge of this ulcer is raised and everted by the exuberant growth of cancer in and beneath the adjacent skin, and it is hard, nodular, and sinuous in correspondence with the characters of the underlying growth. Cancerous formation proceeds all around, and at the base of the ulcer, at a greater rate than the destructive process, and the morbid material may even take the form of granulations. " In all its course, it (the ulcer) yields a thin, ichorous, and often irritating discharge, that smells strongly and peculiarly." In some rare cases cancer undergoes a spon- taneous regress, and becomes obsolete. This is especially rare after it has ulcerated. A highly interesting instance is recorded by Mr. Paget, in which recurring cancerous disease, after it had gone on to ulceration, subsided and cicatrised contem- poraneously with the development of pulmonary tuberculosis. I have seen two instances of the converse, cancer destroying life while tubercle had re- trograded and become obsolete. Rokitansky notices the rare occurrence of spontaneous cure of cancer by its destruction from saniation, the mass sometimes gradually consuming awaj% sometimes sloughing oflr in larger masses. In the First Lines of Sur- gery, p. 353, a case is mentioned of the mother of a young woman, who died of cancer uteri, having had both her breasts entirely destroyed by cancerous disease which had terminated in extensive slough- ing. The woman survived to at least the age of eighty, with of course a very mutilated deformed condition of the chest. _ Mr. Paget writes: "Among the many incon- sistencies in the life of cancers, none, I think, is more striking than that which relates to the attendant pain. One sees cases sometimes that run through their whole career without any pain." lie con- siders the pain, and probably with justice, to be of neuralgic character from the circumstance that "if we compare the most painful and the kast painful cancers with each other, we may find their struc- tnre and relations exactly similar." In the earlier periods of the disease the pain is generally slight, and does not assume the lancinating character till a later period. When growing quicklj-, inflamed, iilcerating, or about to slough, the pain of scirrhus IS increased ; and when ulceration is progressive a burning or scalding sensation is added to, or re- places, the lancinating.] Ahemethy pointed out the error of dwelling too much on lancinating pain, as a test of a scirrhous tumor : first, because it does not prevail in every case, or in every stage of cases in which it docs occur; and, secondly, because it is a symptom attending other tumors which arc unlike scirrhus in structure. (See Abenielh/.t Siiiyical Worh, vol. ii. p. 69, ^c.) The fact of scirrhous tumors being often nnaccompanied by such pain is now so familiarly known, that I shall merely add the evidence of Mr. Travers, on this interesting point. " Not un- frpfiuently (says he) the scirrhous tumor is per- fectly inert, from the period of its formation to the close of life, undergoing very slight, if any, 383 CANCER. increase, and giving, when mental apprehension is appeased, no trouble to the subject of it. A lady now under my observation has been many years so situated, enjoying uninterrupted health, though considerably above seventy years of age. The tumor is of the size of a hen's egg, and has the genuine scirrhous character. She takes sarsaparilla as a beverage, and the probability is, that what in no degree affects her health will not eventually shorten her life." (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xv. p. 214.) [Mr. Paget gives the following account of the conditions favouring the origin of scirrhous tumors, (a) Female sex, from the great frequency with which the breast is attacked in them, (i) Middle period of life, or more exactly the years intervening between thirty-five and fifty. The comparative frequency of scirrhus relatively to the whole number of women living is given in the following table : — ^ Relative frequency of origin of scirrhus. Ages 20 to 30 - - 6 \ 30 to 40 - - 40 40 to 50 - - 100 50 to 60 - - 76 60 to 70 - - 38 70 to 80 - - 32, (c) Cessation of the catamenial discharge does not seem to be an important " moment " in 'the origin- ation of cancer. Among fifty-two women thus diseased twenty-seven menstruated for a least a year after their discovery of the cancer, and sixteen had ceased to menstruate for a year or two more previous to it. {d) Hereditary taint does not seem to be of very much influence, it is estimated as being- present m about one out of six suiferers. It does not seem to determine the occurrence of cancer at an earlier age than usual, (e) The influence of pre- vious injury or disease is but slight. " Only six- teen out of ninety-one ascribed their hard cancer to injury or any such local cause." (/) The eene ral health, in a remarkable majority, is good at the time when the cancer is first observed Of one condition, often supposed to be a powerful exciting cause, VIZ. mejital affliction, so accurate an observer and thinker as Dr. Walshe writes, « I have myself met with cases in which the connection appeared so clear and decisive, that to question its reality would have seemed a struggle against reason.'' He adds, however, immediately, "but the extent to which this influence works practically has doubt- less been over estimated."] [Encephaloid.] [This species appears as a tumor resembling more or less the white cerebral substance, white and softish, sometimes even to the point of afi^b'rdinir the most marked fluctuation. The softer are esti inated as being twice as numerous as the former by Mr. Paget. 'I hey may, he proceeds, occur either as separable tumors or infiltrations " In the former condition they are most frequent m the intermuscular and other spaces in tho iimbs, in the testicle, the mammary gland and the eye : rarely they are thus found in tho bones In the latter condition they most frequently occunv the substance of the uterus, the digestive canal the serous membranes, the periosteum, and the bones " 1 lie shape of snft encephaloid growths is generaliv round, but they may be variously lobed, and their outgrowths may extend to a considerable distance from the mam mass. Occasionally a distinct cap-