930 of about an inch in the brain a Lard substance was telt at the end of the probe, which on extraction proved to be a circular piece of hat, of the shape and size of the breech-pin. Several angular pieces of bone were then carefully removed, together with pieces of brain into which they were imbedded. Under the use of repeated bleedings, with other antiphlogistic treatment, he recovered; but had afterwards two or three epileptic attacks, to which he had not before been subject." It appears very extraordinary that there should be any difference of opinion as to the propriety of an immediate removal of pieces of bone and foreign bodies from the brain. It is a subject, however, with regard to which it is useless to enter into any lengthened controversy ; it will be sufficient to quote the opinions of two surgeons of somewhat opposite notions on this important subject, leaving the reader to draw his own inference on the argu- ments advanced. Mr. Colles, a surgeon of un- questionably high authority, says : " In very small depressed fractures, such as may deserve the name of punctures of the bone, where a depressed bit of bone is sunk into the brain, it will perhaps be pru- dent to postpone the operation for a few days; for if the operation be performed immediately on the receipt of injury, ^nd if we attempt to seize the depressed fragment, the first touch of the forceps sinks it more deeply into the brain. Portions of the brain, from the softness of its texture, rise up and conceal the bone both from our sight and touch ; whereas, if we defer the operation for a few days, we give time for the adhesive inflamma- tion to take place. This circumscribes the de- pressed piece, hardens this spot of the brain, and thus enables us more easily and certainly to lay hold of the fragment of bone." Mr. Guthrie says on this point: "It is necessary to recollect that the brain appears to be insensible, or nearly so, when first exposed; and it has rarely occurred to me to see a serious convulsion, or anythiim- beyond vomiting, take place on the removal of a" piece of bone from the brain; nor do I suspect any diffi- culty will be found in removing such small frag- ments as can be seen, with a pair of forceps duly adapted for the purpose. It is impossible to say at what period the brain becomes irritable, and no longer admits of being touched without convulsive movernents ensuing. But whenever this state of n-ritation has commenced, and its existence is pro- claimed by the excitement which takes place on touching the fragment of bone, the surgeon should at once desist from all attempts to remove the foreign body. The brain, under ordinary circum- stances, is, I conceive, much more likely to recover from an injury, all iforeign or irritating matters being removed, than when also suffering from their presence. Should I be mistaken upon this point, the opinion generally entertained of the propriety or removing extraneous bodies from wounds gene- rally must, I imagine, be erroneous." All that is requisite, after the removal of foreign bodies, &c., is to apply the lightest dressing, as a small piece of moistened lint, to the surface, and i^aielully to abstain from inducing pressure by n too accurate adjustment of the wounded scalp by adhe- tJl ^ f ''^"dl'andag,.8,a practice which is certain occ.si„, convulsions, &c. Abscesses will aH u U I- '"'."i *'^«"<'' »"d those o sun"'^'^,-P'''=='='^^'l ""d other signs suppuration, and are accompanied by epilepti- HEAD, INJUEIES OF THE. form convulsions, which cease on the discharge of tlie matter. As a matter of curiosity it may be observed that in two instances of extensively lacerated brain we have been under the necessity of applying a li- gature to arrest active haemorrhage fi:om a wounded artery. The variety of cases mentioned by the older writers in surgery, and referred to by Quesnay and others, as also those wliich are described by modern authorities in military and naval service, whilst they all tend to demonstrate the complete curability of extensive lacerations of the brain, may be passed over without comment, as the prin- ciples they elucidate are now sufficiently well understood, and as it is quite clear that the brain, itself the seat of all sensibility, is capable of sup- porting injury and recovering from the effects of mischief which, in some other organs, would of necessity compromise life. Whether, after losses of cerebral tissue, the functions of the organ, as evinced in the higher intellectual faculties, as judg- ment, memory, &c,, are ever completely restored to their pristine state of perfection, is a problem hitherto not completely solved; and its solution will probably never be attained. Haller mentions many cases which had come under his own obser- vation, and instances on the authority of others, where patients had retained complete possession of their intellectual faculties after the loss of a large quantity of brain. {Elementa Physiologiw.)'] Hernia, or Fungus Cerebri. [When the natural support of the brain is lost by the removal of bone by the trephine, or as a result of extensive comminution, an organised growth frequently protrudes through the opening from the substance of the brain. The same also happens occasionally when the bone is destroyed by caries. The disease is termed hernia or fungus cerebri. The term hernia cerebri has been employed synonymously with encephalocele, as expressive of the protrusion of a portion of the brain and its membranes through an opening in the cranium from some imperfection in the cranial walls. To remove all ambiguity on this point, it would be better to discard the term hernia altogether, and to employ tlie expression fungus cerebri to designate the condition now under consideration. By this we understand a growth arising from the brain, and intimately connected with this organ, conse- quent on a loss, by accident or disease, of the natural support which the brain derives from its membranes and the bone. Mr. Stanley has written an able article on this subject in the 8th vol. of the Aled. Chir. Trajisaciions, which will be referred to in the following description. The disease commonly makes its appearance i the following manner :—In a few days after th removal of a portion of the skull, the dura niatcr, if entire, is observed to be forced up in a gradual manner through the opening, until it rises above the surface of the bone. It now becomes remark- ably tense, and puts on a dark bluish aspect as i its blood-vessels were much congested; dark spotS' here and there make their appearance, indicative of partial gangrene like that resulting from stran- gulation. In Van Swicten's commentaries this state of the dura mater is correctly explained as the con- sequence " of the urging of the niembriiiie against the edge of the hard bone; the free course of the blood through its vessels is thereby impeded,