390 CANCER, of a new formation, and supplying material where- with to build it up. It is needless to say that not the slightest step lias been made towards obtaining such evidence. All that we know amounts to this that the common materials out of which the tissues are constructed are found abundantly in both scirrhus and encephaloid. Albuminous and fatty matter, and the usual salts and extractives form the list of constituents, and there is nothing to show that there is any special modification in any of them. The presence of gelatine-yielding material in scirrhus, encephaloid, or colloid is doubtful ; on the other hand it certainly exists in tumors which behave malignantly, viz. the ma- lignant fibrous tumor of Mr. Paget. The species which contains the most special kind of material, viz, the colloid, is certainly that in which the ma- lignant characters are less strongly marked. The analysis of colloid by Wurtz shows that it is quite distinct from any kind of gelatine, and is a feebly nitrogenised substance, differing in this respect notably from tlie albuminoid constituents of scirrhus and encephaloid. Causes op Cancer, Relative to the conditions which give rise to cancer but little can be said that has any claim to rank as real positive knowledge. The facts detailed in the foregoing pages afford abundant proof that the disease is, in very many cases, if not in all, constitutional ; that the local malady is in fact only the expression of a general disorder. Ence- phaloid, with its manifold growths springing up in different parts, and its early and grave cachexia, illustrates the constitutionality of cancer. On the other hand the influence of local agencies is not to be rejected. The indubitable effect of an injury in arousing a latent predisposition to cancerous for- mation, and the special tendency of melanotic cancer to appear in the site of moles, show that the constitutional element is materially favoured in its development by whatever weakens the life and nutrition of the part in which it is to have its seat. The constitutional tendency, the cancerous diathesis, must be regarded as far the most essen- tial condition of the disease ; the local injury or imperfection can only be considered as a promoting, and site-determining cause. Tliis is well put by Mr. Paget, vol. ii. p. 534. But can we go any further, and point out with any probability in what the constitutional tendency consists ? Mr. Paget thinks that there exists some specific mate- rial in the blood, which is "the essential consti- tuent of the cancerous diathesis or constitution ; and when its existence produces some manifest impairment of the general health, independently of the cancerous growth, it makes the primary cancerous cachexia." He admits that neither the microscope nor chemistry have afforded one particle of evidence in favour of this view ; and he relies for its support on the conformity of cancer to other specific diseases, such as syphilis, hydro- phobia, gout, rheumatism, the exantheraatn. Of these he says, " their theory in its most general terms is that each of them depends on a definite and specific morbid condition of the blood ; that the local process in which each is manifested is due to the disorder produced by the morbid blood in the nutrition of one or more tissues ; and tliiit generally this disorder is attended with tlio accu- nuiliuion, and leads to the discharge, or transfor- mation of some morbid constituents of the blood in the disordered part." It would occupy far too much space to enter upon anything like a full discussion of this question, but I will instance two points in which the weakness of Mr. Paget's view seems very apparent. He assumes the conformity of cancer to the specific diseases, but may it not most fairly be asked, Whether a cancerous tumor is not greatly more like, more analogous to, a fatty tumor, or a fibrous, than it is to gout or syphilis, or variola ? Now, no one will surely contend that a fatty or fibrous tumor arises be- cause there is much fat or fibrine in the blood. These, it is true, supply the necessary materials for their formation, but would never cause their production apai-t from some imknown perversion of organising power. Why does an ovary rush into such strange aberrations from its normal life as are displayed in huge colloidal cystic, or sarcomatous growths, or such as contain fat, skin, teeth, bone, or even brain ? Is it because the necessary con- stituents (chemical) of these structures were over- abundant in the blood ? Is there not much more resemblance between an ovarian growth and a mammary or uterine cancer than there is between the latter and variola, or gout, or eczema? Secondly, if it be true that (as Mr. Paget states) the increas- ing eruption of eczema or herpes may be ranked with the multiplication of secondary cancers, as manifesting that peculiar character of specific dis- eases, viz. self-augmentation, there seems to be pretty certain evidence that in the case of the skin diseases his theory (the usually accepted one) of a specific materies morbi is incorrect, and so it may be also in the case of the cancer. Not the least evidence exists to show that the scale of psoriasis or lepra, the crusts of impetigo or eczema, or the fluid of pompholix blebs contain any peculiar morbid matter, anything which retained in the blood would reproduce the disease. On the other side, the fact that these desquamations or dis- charges can be altogetlier arrested, and the healthy state of the skin restored without any detriment, but with marked improvement of the health, is very strong counter-evidence. The skin eniptions are in fact simple inflammations or exudations of nerve origin, depending, i. c. on paral3'sis of the vascular nerves, and the remarkable influence which arsenic exerts upon them when well managed may be most justly compared (as a similar action) with its effect in curing a neuralgia or an ague^ A huge ague-c.ike, as far as we know, consists simply of albuminous matter which, after repeated floodings of the spleen with blood, exudes and becomes lowly organised. There is no reason to believe that any special morbid substance is accumulated in the splenic tumor, and the possibility of ob- taining its absorption by the use of quinine, and by change of air without any particular evacuating measures point to the same conclusion. These considerations seem to me to leave it quite open to consider that cancer has nothing to do essentially with any supposed materies inorhi in the blood, but that it is simply an unexplained perversion of the normal initritivc power. It appears to me rather strange that so many seem reluctant to recognise fully and frankly the vast supremacy of the organising power, that won- derful vital energy which caused the shapeless, blastema of the embryo to take form in the various tissues and organs, each in their appointed locality,