be introdnced, the making of an outlet for the urine should not be delayed. Indeed, in urgent cases, one should rather operate earlier. As Sir Ben- jamin Brodie has observed, it is impossible to lay down any general rule concerning the period beyond which the operation ought not to be deferred. " Sometimes there will be no reason for resortinn- to it, until after the lapse of three or four days, and° at other times, it ought to be performed within thirty-si-Y hours, or even sooner. After all, how- ever necessary it may be to the safety of the pa- tient in some instances, it is an operation that is very rarely required ; surgeons, who see a great number of cases of retention of urine, may be called upon to perform it in a few instances. Those who perform it frequentlj', must often per- form it unnecessarily." (See Brodic, On Dis. of the Urinary Orgmis, ed. 2, p. 41.) These remarks, I infer, apply more particularly to puncturing the bladder, and not to the less serious operation of opening the membranous part of the urethra behind the stricture ; one of the modern improvements in surgery, for which we are indebted to Sir Astley Cooper, and which, in cases of insuperable reten- tion from stricture, renders a puncture of the blad- der itself but rarely advisable. Puncture of the bladder " in the male," says Sir Astley, " is not the operation which I perform, nor do I recommend it as a general practice." {Lectures, ^-c. vol. ii. p. 307.) In another place, he pronounces the punc- ture of the bladder in the male to be scarcely ever necessary (p. 31,5). Being called many years ago to a case of retention of urine from a stricture situated in the urethra behind the scrotum, he tried to pass different instruments, without success. "Reflecting upon the case," says he, "it appeared to me to be exposing the patient to unnecessary pain and danger, if I punctured his distended blad- der ; as, when I directed him to make attempts to discharge his urine, the urethra swelled exces- sively behind the stricture, from the urine passing as far as its seat. I therefore determined to make an incision into the urethra only " (p. 316). This was opened behind the scrotum, and the urine readily discharged. The patient rapidly recovered. Sir Astley Cooper gives other instances of the success of this practice, which has also an advo- cate in Sir Charies Bell (see Surg. lieporU, part V.) ; and, I believe, in all the best surgeons of this country. Sir Astley introduces a female catheter through the wound to prevent extravasation ; but he deems this mt absolutely necessarv. If any °'^.="I'y '^'ere experienced in opening "the urethra behind the stricture, he recommends a catheter or staff to be passed to the stricture ; and, under the guidance of its beak, an incision to be made, and extended an inch backward, in a lino with the beak. The state of the urethra in stricture," he adds, "is very different from that which exists with fistula in perinaio : in the former case, it is largo behind the obstruction ; in tlio latter, it is contracted, and very difficult to find." (Lectures, ^c. vol. ii. p. 318.) ' No doubt, a man who is exceedingly skilful in the use of the catheter, and knows how to practise with science and judgment, all the other moans for relieving the retention of urine, will not fre- quently find it necessary to have recourse to any operation. This is said to have been so much the ease with the eminent Desaiilt, that, in the course ot ten years, he had occasion only once to punc- BLADDER. 30!) ture the bladder in the I-I6tel Dleu, where diseases of the urethra are always numerous. (See (Eiivres Chir. de Desau/l, par Biclial, t. ii. p. 316.) M. Roux is stated never to have met with a single instance in which there was a necessity for punc- turing the bladder. (See Velpeau, Nouv. Elhn. de Mid. Oper. t. iii. p. 960.) When, however, this superior manual dexterity with the catheter is not the acquirement of the practitioner, the timely performance of paracentesis of the bladder, or at all events, the making of an outlet for the urine in some way or another, should not be neglected. It is gratifying to know, however, that, at the pre- sent day, the absolute necessity for puncturing the bladder is rendered less frequent, not only by the treatment of diseases of the urethra being better understood than formerly, but also by the very great perfection to which the construction of elastic gum catheters is brought, instruments from which the^ most essential assistance may frequently be derived. Strictures in the urethra, and enlarge- ment of the prostate gland, are the two cases most frequently producing a retention of urine ; and in both of them, Sir Astley Cooper considers the operation of puncturing the bladder (with very few exceptions) entirely unnecessary; an opinion with which my own observations le'ad me fully to con- cur. In cases of enlarged prostate gland, a skilful surgeon will almost always succeed in introducing a catheter of proper shape and length ; and in ex- amples of retention from stricture, when relief can- not be afforded by ordinary means, the best plan, generally, is not to puncture the bladder, but to make a small opening in the part of the urethra between the stricture and the prostate gland ; a part which is most commonly much dilated. 1. Puncture through the Perineum. This operation was first performed by M Tolet the author of a treatise entitled Traiti de Litlil lomie, ou de I'E^traction de la Pierre hors de la f^esste, troisihne idition, Paris, 168]. Dionis first suggested the method of opening the bladder on one side of the perineum, at the part where Frere Jacques used to perforin lithotomj', and he con- ceived that this mode had advantages, because neither the urethra nor the neck of the bladder was injured. A narrow scalpel was first intro- duced, so as to make a passage for the probe, and along this a canula was guided into the bladder where it was allowed to remain as long as neces- sary, care being taken to fix it by means of tapes put through the rings- at the broad part of the in- strument. The opening was then closed with a linen tent. The idea of substituting for these unsuitable instruments a trocar originated in 1721, with .Iim- ckcr (see Conspectus Chirurgia:, tab. 97, p. 674)" un- less the following passage be correct : " In the year 1717, or 1718, M. Peyronie showed in the Kine's garden .a long trocar, which he had successfnllv empl(^-ed in a similar puncture." (DcsuuWs Pari, sian C/nr. Journ. vol. ii. p. 267.) The patient having been placed in the same position as for lithotomy, an assistant is to press with his lelt hand on the region of the bladder aliovo the pubes, in order to propel that viscus as lar downward into the pelvis as possible, while with his right hand he supports the scrotum I he furgcon is then to introduce the trocar at the middle of a lino drawn from the tuberosity of Ihe ischium to the raphe of the periiienm, two .\ 3