252 ANTRUM. a description of the operation of removing tho antrum will be given. (See Bones, Excision op.) As it appears from the foregoing observation, that whatever operation is done, the patient has a fairer prospect of being cured by it when the dis- ease does not partake of a medullary or cancerous nature, and as, likewise, the chances of recovery are so bad in the latter cases that many of the best surgeons pronounce any operation for them unjustifiable ; it would he very desirable if the character of the disease could always be deter- mined befoi-e the tumor has made its way be3'ond the limits of the antrum, I remember that Sir Benjamin Brodie once mentioned to me a case in which he was able to ascertain the medullary consistence of the tumor by the introduction of one of his exploratory grooved needles. The plan seems to be one deserving of recollection. In the case here referred to, the antrum was removed by another surgeon, but the disease returned. In a case which was in the UniversityCoUege Hospital, under my care, the disease, which was malignant, had caused ulceration of the cheek, and tiirown out a firm fungous bleeding mass in that direction ; so that the nature of the case was but too mani- fest. But if there had been no such protrusion of the disease through the cheek, the projecting part of the tumor in the roof of the mouth ad- mitted of manual examiuation ; and its consistence could be felt to be in some places elastic ; in others, firm, like scirrhus, or mammary sarcoma. In fact, the preparation taken from the patient, an aged female, after her death, exemplifies a com- bination of these two structures ; and is placed in the museum of University College. Mr. Mayo, in noticing the importance of discriminating osteo-sarcoma from medullary sarcoma of the an- trum remarks,—" The only criterion that I am acquainted with for determining the nature of the swelling is to plunge a lancet into it; when, if the disease is osteo-sarcoma, the peculiar crisp sensation of cutting that texture will be perceived." (See ATayo's Outlines of Pailioloyy, p. 278.) [In the present day a grooved needle or very small trochar is used to procure a particle of the tumor, in order to have its character tested by microscopical inspection.] A few years ago, Mr. Pattison suggested the expedient of tying the carotid artery, as likely to bring about the dispersion of fungous diseases of the antrum, without the necessity of meddling with the tumor itself. He adverts to three cases, the results of which, according to his account, were favourable to tiie practice. (See Bums, On Anat. oftliellead, ^c. ed. by Patlison.) However, the ligature of an arterial trunk has been tried by Sir Astley Cooper, to stop the progress of medullary tumors in other situations, but without success (see Surg. Essays) ; and Mr. Listen declares, that the statement of a malignant tumor in the antrum having been arrested by ligature of the common carotid, is not borne out by facts. {Elem. of Sur- fjary, part ii. p. 161.) In M. Magendie's Journ. da Physiologia is a case, in wliich tliis eminent physician tried in vain to stop thoprogressof a tumor of tho antrum by tying the common carotid artery. Insects in tub Antuubi. It is said, that insects in this cavity may some- times make it necessary for the surgeon to open 't- riiis case, however, must be exceedingly rare ; and even what we find in authors (Pa//<(s, iM Inseelis Vivenlihus intra vive?itia) appears so litile authentic, that I should hardly have mentioned the subject if there were not in a work of repute {Med. Comm. vol. i.) a fact which appears entitled to attention. Mr. Heysham, a medical practitioner at Carlisle, relates that a strong,' woman, aged sixty, in the habit of taking a great deal of snuff, was subject, for several years, to acute pains in the antrum, extending over one side of the head. These pains never entirely ceased, but were more severe in winter than summer, and were always subject to frequent periodical exacer- bations. The patient had taken several anodj-ne medicines, and others, without benefit; and had twice undergone a course of mercury, by which her complaints liad been increased. All her teeth on the affected side had been drawn. At length, it was determined to open the antrum with a large trocher, though there were no symptoms of an abscess, nor of any other disease in this cavity. For four days no benefit resulted from the oper- ation. Bark injections, and the elixir of aloes, were introduced into the sinus. On the fifth day, a dead insect was extracted, by means of a pair of forceps, from the mouth of the cavitj'. It was more than an inch long, and thicker than a com- mon quill, Tlie patient now experienced relief for several hours: but the pains afterwards re- curred with their former severity ; oil was next injected into the antrum, and two other insects, similar to the former, were extracted. No others appeared, and the wound closed. The pains were not completely removed, but considerably dimi- nished for several months, at the end of which time they became worse than ever, particularly affecting the situation of the frontal sinus. Bordenave has published, in the twelfth and thirteenth volumes of the Mem. de I'Acad, de Cliir. edit. 12mo., two excellent papers on diseases of the antrum. In the thirteenth volume he relates a case, in which several small whitish worms, to- gether with a piece of foetid fungus, were discharged from the antrum, after an opening had been made on account of an abscess of this cavitj', attended with caries. (P. 381.) But, in this instance, the worms had probably been generated after the opening had been made in the cavity ; for when they made their appearance, the opening had ex- isted nine months. Deschanips refers to another case, in which M. Fortassin, his colleague at La Charite', found in the antrum of a soldier, whom he was dissecting, a worm of the ascaris lumbriciis kind, four inches in length. {Traile des Mai. dcs Fosses jVasales, cjc. p. 107.) Such an example is also recorded in one of the volume of the Journ. de Med. [The linguatula ta;nioides, tiie parasite which infests the frontal sinus, and which some- what resembles tho ascaris lumbricus, is not un- likely to have been the worm described as found in tlio antrum in the above cases.] Where cases of this description present themselves in a living subject, it would be advisable to inject oil into the cavity of the antrum, and then endeavour to wash out the extraneous substances, by throwing into the sinus warm water, by means of a syringe. Hiiii.ioG. AND Rkfkh.—I'R'eisd'Observ.itions .siir les MikJadios du Sinus Mnxillaire, par M. liurdciKu r, in Mem. (lel'Acad. Kovnlede Chir. t.xii. edit, in 12iiiu. Also, Suite d'Observntions on the siiiue subject, by .U. Bordenave, t. xiii. of the said work; L. Ii. Runge,yv Morbis I'rrecipuis Sinuuui Ossis Frontis et MnxilliL'