HEAD, INJURIES OF THE in these cases there is much risk of inflamma tion attacking the membranes of the brain or the brain itself, nevertheless experience leads ^^''^^ principles of treatment which ought _ to guide our practice here differ m no material respect from those which are usually emploj'ed in the management of cases of traumatic erj^sipelas wheresoever existing. Pott and others have attempted to define the symptoms characterising the inflammation as it attacks the separate tissues of the scalp ; but much importance cannot be attached to this point, as in most cases all the strata of the scalp are simultaneously affected. Incised Wounds of tlie Scalp require few ?pe cial remarks: they vary in extent and depth, and are frequently accompanied by troublesome haemorrhage when in the vicinity of the large arteries. As in the management of incised wounds in any other part, the surgeon's attention should be directed first to the arrest of the hsemorrhage, and pressure may be conveniently applied over almost any part of the skull for this purpose. We have a strong predilection for the ligature in all cases of bleeding where the ligature can be used. In haemorrhage from wounds of the scalp, there is occasionally much difficulty in the application of a ligature; but generally this may be accomplished, especially in cases of recent woiuid, as the divided end of the artery can usually be seen projecting from the skin, into the dense structure of which it cannot retract: it may then be seized with the forceps, or a hook, and tied. When the bleeding has ceased the wound should be accurately adjusted with strips of simple plaster, and a retentive bandage should be applied. With respect to the employment of sutures in wounds of the scalp, there need be no serious appre- hension of any risk of erysipelas resulting from their use; but, as the scalp is but slightly elastic, and as there is consequently no disposition to retract after division, there can be no necessity for the use of sutures, unless under the extraor- dinary circumstances of extensive wounds, where large pendulous flaps hang loosely, and cannot otherwise be conveniently retained in apposition. These remarks apply to lacerated rather than to incised wounds. Incised wounds vary in extent and depth, and it can readily be believed that cases occurring in military practice are generally of far greater extent and importance than those which surgeons are in the habit of seeing in hos- pital or private practice : but all bear equal testi- mony to the fact of the ready curability of such cases, however extensive, by careful means, espe cially in healthy constitutions. Absolute rest in bed, with free purging, and the application of cold after the head has been shaved, are to be steadily enjoined, and we need fear no unfavovurable result. Lacerated wmmds of the scalp vary in extent ac cording to the force applied; but they have an un- °<''jbted tendency to assume a rectilinear direction, Wherever they are very extensive, the occipito-fron' talis tendon is lacerated and raised with the integu- ment. The most extensive wounds of this description we have ever seen have been those caused by the ma- chinery used in our large cotton-mills; and they fre- quently happen in consequence of the long hair of ine leniale operatives becoming entangled whilst ih! " in rapid revolution. The extent of dilv circumstances can berea- d'ly imagmed. The entire scalp is sometimes com- pletely torn away,'or is left hanging by a slender piece of skin. But it fortunately happens that in such cases the pericranium is left entire. We have seen the whole surface of the calvariuro, as well as the temporal fascia, the seat of healthy florid granu- lations after an injury of this description. These wounds eventually cicatrise completely. The scalp frequently becomes detached by falls upon the ground, or by the passage of heavy carriace-weeels over the side of the head. In such cJses dirt, gravel, and other foreign bodies, are ground into the edges of the wound or beneath the pendu- lous flaps of skin, and the scalp is bruised so as to appear thoroughly spoiled. Troublesome haemorrhage frequently attends extensive lacera- tions of the scalp, but it is occasionally absent. Hffimorrhage occurs from the torn arteries at the edge of the wound, and now and then it arises from the lacerated blood-vessels in the cellular tissue beneath the occipito-frontalis tendon. Al- though absent in the first instance, its occurrence IS always to be apprehended after an accident and during the progress of the case, if suppuration and gangrene attack the part. The treatment of lacerated wounds of the scalp is highly important, yet the principles of conduct are comparatively simple. If there is much bleed- ing, or indeed any haemorrhage, pressure should be tried, or the bleeding vessel must be sought for and tied; a ligature on the proximal end of the divided artery is sufficient. When there is no hemorrhage at the time, it is better by the use of the sponge rather to encourage it than to leave the case with a risk of its occurring at a more unfavourable season. The source of haemorrhage from the subjacent vessels IS also to be sought for by carefuUy everting the torn scalp, and if the haemorrhage be severe and difiicult of control by pressure, it is advisable to make a free incision in the direction of the bleed- ing artery, and thus expose it. Pressure, if carefully and accurately applied, will usually suffice to stop all bleeding from the torn subjacent arteries; but, if the hceraorrhage continue, it may distend the scalp to a very great extent, and the artery must then be sought for and tied. There is nothing more embarrassing than the frequent recurrence of haemorrhage in scalp wounds; amongst other modes of treatment, we have occasionally seen troublesome bleeding eflFectually arrested by the careful emploj'- ment of the clamp tourniquet: of course this could not well be used in cases where the haamorrhage arose from a wound of the scalp on the vertex of the skull, but the screw tourniquet could be us^d under such circumstances. We have spoken of the paramount necessity of directing attention fiKt to the haemorrhage : the next important point to attend to is the cleansing of the wound from all foreign bodies; but it is scarcely necessarj' to in- sist on this essential piece of simple surger)' as especially requisite in wounds of the scalp. Having therefore carefully cleaned the wound, the hair being first shaven off, the separated parts are to be readjusted with the nicest accurac)'. No part of the lacerated scalp, however damaged, is to be re- moved. We should not have alluded to this point had we not witnessed, within the last twentj- years, a case where a surgeon had removed the whole scalp from a patient, which was hanging by a slender piece of skin: he had thus severed the only connecting medium of vascularity in a part which might have continued to live, and which by