HERNIA. hernia was dissected by M. Cloqiiet, and is men tioned by Nelaton. {Elhnens de Patliologie cliirur- gicale, t. iv. p. 358.) The hernia had passed through an irregular opening in the fascia, covering the pectineus muscle, and could not have been dis tinguished during life. A case is referred to by Mr Gay where the hernia occupied the whole space under Poupart's ligament, between the anterior su- perior spine of the ilium and the tuberosity of the pubes. {Gay, On Femoral Rupture, p. 34.) Mr. Law- rence alludes to a case, described by Hesselbach, in which the hernial tumor was situated on the out- side of the femoral vessels. It was covered by the iliac portion of the fascia lata, by the sartorius muscle, and by the fascia covering iliacus and 2isoas muscles below Poupart's ligament. He also mentions two dissections by Mr. Stanley, in which a femoral hernia was found to be situated in front of the femoral vessels. In one of these the obtu rator artery arose from the epigastric, and the com mon trunk and its divisions were placed front of the sac. {Treatise on Ruptures, ed. 5, p, 486.) M. Demeaux (Annales de la Cliirurgie fran faise, t. i. p. 475) places on record two dissec- tions of femoral hernia, in each of which two sacs existed, one in front of the femoral vessels, the other internal to the vein. The distance between the mouths of the two sacs, seen from within, was in the one case eight lines, in the other one inch. The internal of the two sacs in each dissection was bounded internally by Gimbernat's ligament, and externally by the epigastric artery. The external sac was situated in front of the femoral artery, and external to the epigastric. M. Laugier has described a case where the hernia passed altogether internal to the sheath of the femoral vessels through an opening in Gimbernat's ligament. A portion of Gimbernat's ligament separated the neck of the sac from the femoral ring. The sac below Poupart's ligament rested on the pectineus muscle and its fascia, having the sheath of the femoral vessels external to it, {Archives gmerales de Medccine, 1833, 2nd series, t. ii. p. 27.) M. Demeaux has dissected similar case. The artery left the abdomen internal to the remains of the umbilical hernia, and passed through Gimbernat's ligament, appearing below Poupart's ligament internal to the femoral sheath (Op. cit.) These deviations from the usual course of a femoral rupture have induced Velpeau to admit three varieties of femoral hernia, which he would distinguish by the terms internal, middle, and external. The 1st, protruding through the fibres of Gimbernat's ligament; the 2nd, through the femoral ring; the 3rd, external to the epigastric artery, and in front of the femoral artery; the first and last being of very rare occurrence; the second or middle kind constituting the ordinary femoral hernia.] ° Umbilical Hernia, or Exompiialos, " The exomphalos, or umbilical rupture (8a)'S Pott), is so called from its situation, and has (like other herniaj) for its general contents, a portion of intestine or omentum, or both. In old umbilical ruptures, the quantity of omentum is sometimes very great. Mr. Ranby says, that he found two and a half of intestine in one of ells aoout a third part of the stomach, all adherinc to- gether. Mr, 1 -«,r »^ . . . o these, with tomach, all a " Gay and Mr. Nourao found the liver in the sac of an umbilical hernia, and Bohnin^ says that he did also. But whatever are the con tents, they are originally contained in the sac formed by the protrusion of the peritoneum. Ii. recent and small ruptures, this sac is very visible but in old and large ones, it is broken through iU the knot of the navel, by the pressure and weight of the contents, and is not always to be distin- guished; which is the reason why it has by some been doubted whether this kind of rupture has a hernial sac or not. " Infants are very subject to this disease in a small degree, from the separation of the funiculus; but in general they either get rid of it as they gather strength, or are easily cured by wearing a proper bandage. It is of still more consequence to get this disorder cured in feniiiles even than in males, that its return, when they are become adult and pregnant, may be prevented as much as pos- sible; for at this time it is liable to occur from the too great distension of the he]]y, or from unguarded motion when the parts are upon the stretch. Dur- ing gestation, it is often very troublesome, but after delivery, if the contents have contracted no adhesion, they will often return, and may be kept in their place by a proper bandage. "If such bandage was always put on in time, and worn constantly, the disease might in general be kept within moderate bounds, and some of the very terrible consequences which often attend it might be prevented. The woman who has the smallest degree of it, and who, from her age and situation, has reason to expect children after its appearance, should be particularly careful to keep it restrained. In some the entrance of the sac is large, and the parts easily reducible; in others they are diffi- cult, and in some absolutely irreducible. Of the last kind many have been suspended for years in a proper bag, and have given little or no trouble. They who are afflicted with this disorder, who are advanced in life, and in whom it is large, are gene- rally subject to colics, diarrhoeas, and, if the intes- tinal canal be at all obstructed, to very troublesome vomitings. Hence, patients are often supposed to labour under a stricture, when they really do not. It therefore behoves such to take great care to keep the intestinal tube as clean and free as pos- sible, and neither to eat or drink any thing likely to make any disturbance in that part" (Port, On Riiptures,\oL ii.) The writings of Sir A. Cooper, Scarpa {Traitc des Her7iics, p. 327), and all the most accurate moderns, confirm the fact described by Pott, that in the umbilical rupture there is a hernial sac, just as in other instances of herniaj. Every anatomist knows that, behind the opening in the linea alba at the umbilicus, the peritoneum is complete, and consequently must protrude along with the viscera in cases of exomphalos. In the only two cases which Sir A, Cooper had seen of a deficienc)' of the sac, the membrane had been partially absorbed, or lacerated, so as to allow the protrusion of its contents, and threaten, from this cause, a double stricture. Similar appearances, less closely in- spected, probably gave rise to the opinion so firmly maintained by Dionis, De la Faye, Garengeot, md J. L. Petit, that, in the umbilical hernia, the peritoneum was always lacerated, and there was no hernial sac. Early infancy is most subject to umbilical hernia, strictly so called, in which the