BANDAGE. 298 The important and active part taken by cells in the processes of growth and nutrition, ren- ders it necessary to consider their influence in any impairment or modification of these processes, such as are implied in atrophy of the tissues. On this part of our subject, hitherto but little at- tended to by pathologists, Wedl remarks (p. 57, Qp_ cit.) — " Now, if the absorption of the fluid nutritive material, and the giving off of the non-assimilable parts, do not proceed according to the determinate mode appropriate to the cell, un- organisable elements will be left, and undergo the same metamorphosis which we have enumerated as forms of involution of the separate parts of the cells. The defective assimilation of the cells re- moves them, as it were, from the domain of vitality, and they remain like dead particles, incapable of again entering upon their proper formative pro- cesses, enclosed within the sphere of the living organism." For an account of the atrophies and degenerations of the blood, and of the several tissues of the body, I cannot do better than refer the reader to Weill's Rudiments of Failiological Anatomy.'\ [ATROPIA ; ATROPINE SULPHAS. Ph. Lend. The alkaloid atropia, or atropine, is the ac- tive principle of the atropa belladonna, or deadly nightshade. It is now frequently employed instead of the extract of belladonna, for producing dilatation of the pupil. It is more powerful, more certain in its action, and it has the advantage of being a cleaner application. A drop of a solution of sulphate of atropine placed in the eye will produce the required effect. The sulphate being freely soluble in water, is preferable to the alkaloid itself, which requires the assistance of alcohol for its solution. It should be used in the proportion of three grains to an ounce of distilled water. It is almost needless to state that both atropine and its sulphate are sub- stances of an intensely poisonous character. (See Belladonna.)] AUSCULTATION (from auses or aures, and coJo). The method of judging of the nature and conditions of various diseases by the particular sound which they communicate either to the unassisted ear, or to that organ, through the medium of the stethoscope. Thus, in diseases of the lungs and pleura, the practitioner may derive important in- formation respecting the condition of those organs, by attending minutely to the changes in the sounds of the heart or of respiration, to the sotind of the voice and coughing within the chest, and other sounds occasionally heard in the same situation. [Another mode of employing auscultation is called percussion. The part of the body to be examined is struck with tiie finger, and information is gained by listening to the resulting sound. For example, in this way we may distinguish whether distension of the abdomen depends upon the presence of fluid in the peritoneal cavity, or gas in the intestines.] The stethoscope, in many ambiguous cases, must be deemed an instrument of great importance in practice. For a particular description of it, how- ever, I refer to Laennec's invaluable work on diseases of the chest, in the translation and im- provement of which, by numerous instructive notes, Dr. John Forbes has rendered himself a benefactor to medical science. In surgery, the stethoscope is usefully employed in detecting the real nature of various doubtful swellings, particularly those of an aiieurismal character. By M. Lisfranc it has been found of considerable service, in enabling him to judge with more accuracy of the Cijllision of the sound against calculi, or other substances in the Ijladder, in the operation of sounding. M. de Kergaradac has used the stethoscope with much success for ascertaining pregnancy, where the history was obscure. It has also been found of great utility in determining the existence and state of various collections of fluids, and particularly of pus ; and it has enabled practitioners to ascertain, with certainty, the communications occasionally existing between abscesses of the liver and the in- terior of the lungs, as well as the occasional com- munication of pulmonary abscesses with the ab- dominal cavity. In cases of fracture, where the crepitus is obscure, the stethoscope removes all am- biguity. In all diseases about the heart, and large blood-vessels near this organ, much useful informa- tion may be derived from it ; but, the method of using it, and the circumstances by which it affords instruction, must be gathered from a careful perusal of Laennec's and other works. De rAuscultation Mediate, vol. ii. 8vo. Paris, 1826, ed 2. Lejumeaude Kergaradac, Mem. sur l'.\uscul- tation. Svo. Paris, 1822. J. Lisfranc, U€m. sur des Nouvelles Applications du Stethoscope. Svo. Pans, 1823 J. Forties, M.D. Original Dissections, &c. illustrating the Use of the Stethoscope. 8vo. Lonrt. 1824 Also, the Notes in liis Transl. of Laennec, On Dis. of the Chest. W. Stokes, Introduction to the Use of the Stethoscope. Svo. Edinb. 1825 ; also, P. 4 Piorrv, De la Percussion M<=diute, &c. Svo. Pans, IS>8 P. M. IMham, M.D. Lectures on Subjects connected with Clinical Medicine, vol. i. Svo. 1836. .lames Hope, M.D. Treatise cn the Diseases of the Heart and ijreat vessels. Svo. 3id ed. 1839. C. J. if. (T'7H/aH!*, M.D. Pathology and Diasnosis of Diseases of the Chest. &c. Svo. 4th ed. 1840. Jos. Skoda, Treatise on Auscultation and Percussion, translated by IK. 0. Markham, M.D. Svo. Lond. 1853. B Bandage. The use of bandages is to keep dressings, compresses, remedies, &c. in their pro- per situation ; to compress blood-vessels, so as to retain hajinorrhage ; to rectify certain derorniities by holding the deranged parts in a natural posi- tion ; to unite parts in which there is a soli-t on of continuity; and, in particular, to prevent s i'h parts from moving,or quitting tlieir desired (insition. As the application of bandages is an important branch of surgery, authors have not neglected it. Much has been written on the subject, and almost every writer has devised new bandages, perhaps. without real benefit to the art. Unfortunately, it is next to impossible to give clear ideas of the nu- merous sorts of bandages by a printed description of them, especially when it is not accompanied by diagrams or engravings. The surgeon can onl^' acquire all the necessary instruction from experi- ence and practice. Hence, I shall confine myselt to a ceucral acconnt of the subject. Bandages should be made of materials possess- ing Bufficfent strength to fulfil the end V^"\'"2iZ applying them, and at the same tmie they sliould be supple enough to accommodate themselves to