547 DISLOCATION. towards the palm,in order to lessen the resistance of the flexor muscles. Stead)' extension must be unre- mittingly kept up ; and, if the reduction cannot be nccomplishod in this way, the same experienced surgeon considers it advisable " to leave the case to the degree of recovery, which nature will in time produce, ratlier tlian divide the muscles, or run any risk of injuring the nerves and blood-vessels.'' In a compound dislocation, produced by the burst- ing of a gun, the bone is to be reduced, the integu- ments brought together, and the part poulticed. When the muscles are severely torn, amputation of the thumb may be necessary, in which case Sir Astley Cooper recommends the removal of the articular surface of the trapezium with a saw. {On Dislocations, p. 488, ed. 4.) The cutting pliers would perhaps answer better. [Contrary to the experience of Sir A. Cooper, most surgeons speak of the dislocation backwards as more common than that forwards. Mr. Fer- gusson says, he has seen " several " of the former, but has met no example of the latter kind of injury. M. Malgaigne could meet with no record of dis- location forwards, excepting that of Sir A. Cooper, but refers to as many as nine cases of the disloca- tion backwards, four of which were complete and five incomplete. Two of the complete and one of the incomplete came under his own observation. {Traiti des Frad. ^o. t. ii. p. 722.) It appears that the dislocation backwards may be caused in two -ways : First, as stated above, by force applied to the dorsal surface of the metacarpal bone, so as bend it towards tlie palm ; and secondly, by violence applied to the palmar surface, so as to bend it forcibly backwards. In the complete dislocation the thumb is shortened, and the carpal extremity of the bone forms a very palpable projection on the back of the carpus ; but if it is of the incomplete kind there is no shortening, and the prominence is, of course, less striking ; or it may perhaps be concealed altogether in the inflammatory svvelling which ensues. In the complete disloca- tion the thumb is usually slightly flexed towards the palm. Extension upon the thumb, combined with' pressure forwards upon the displaced end of the bone, will effect the reduction, which should be maintained for a time, by a properly adjusted compress and bandage.] Dislocation of the mt'tacarpal hones of the fingers. — The connection of the four inner metacarpal bones with one another, and with those of the carpus, is so close, and the degree of motion so slight, that a dislocation can hardly take place. Thus, Sir Astley Cooper, in his vast experience, has never seen them dislocated, except by the bursting of guns, or by the passage of heavy carriages over the hand ; cases frequently de- manding amputation. {On Dislocations, p. 519.) [A dislocation forwards of the second metacarpal bone was observed by M. Bourguet in a man, aged 45, and was the result of direct pressure upon the posterior and upper part of the bone. Reduction was etTected by making extension from the injured finger, and counter-extension from the wrist, pres- sure being made, at the same time, upon the dislocated end of the bone, to push it backwards into its place. Splints were applied for a fortnight to guard against a relapse, and at the end of that time the cure was found to be perfect. Dislocation of tlie third metacarpal bono has been twice noticed. On both occasions the dis- placement was backwards. In the first case, observed by M. Blandin, the dislocation was believed to be incomplete ; but in the second, under the care of M. Roux, it was complete, and there was shortening of the middle fijiger. In this case, the reduction was effected by extension from the middle finger, combined with pressure downwards upon the carpal extremity of the bone. (See Malgaigne, Traiti des Fract. <^c. t. ii. p. 727.)] Dislocations at the Metacarpo-Phalan- GEAL Articulations. Dislocation of the tJiumb.—[The first phalanx of the thumb may be dislocated, either backwards or forwards upon the metacarpal bone. The back- ward displacement is tolerably common; that forwards is much more rare. The dislocation backwards is usually the result of a fall upon the palmar surface of the thumb, or of external violence so applied as to force the phalanx backwards upon the metacarpal bone, from which it projects backwards at an obtuse angle, and remains extended, while the second phalanx is bent. More rarely, the phalanx does not project at an angle, but is found in a line parallel with the metacarpal bone. This is often the case after attempts of reduction have been made. The head of the metacarpal bone is prominent towards thepalm, where it is covered only by the integument. The motion of the joint is lost, but that between the metacarpal bone and the os trapezium continues free. M. Malgaigne describes an incomplete dislocation backwards, of wliich he has observed two cases. The slighter degree of prominence in front and behind the joint, and the absence of shortening, to- gether with the greater facility of reduction, would distinguish this from the complete dislocation.] Reduction.—This dislocation should be speedilv reduced ; especially if complete, for, after eight or ten days, it becomes irreducible. Sir Astley Cooper recommends the extension to be made while the thumb is bent towards the palm, and the flexor muscles rela.xed ; and the following is his method of applying the extending force, wliich he adopts also for dislocations of the toes, thumb and fingers in general: —" The hand is to be first steeped in warm water, for a considerable time, to relax the parts, as much as possible. Then a piece of thin wetted leather (wash leather for instance) is to be put around the first phalanx, and as closely adapted to the thumb as possible. A portion of tape, about two yards in length, is then to be ap- plied upon the surface of the leather in the knot, which is called by the sailors, the clove-hitch, for this becomes tighter as the extension proceeds. An assistant places his middle and fore-linger between the thumb and fore-finger of the patient, and makes the counter-extension, whilst the surgeon, assisted by others, draws the first phalanx from the nieta-* carpal bone, directing it a little inwards, towards the pnim of the hand. The extension should be supported for a considerable length of time, and if success does not attend the surgeon's efforts, it is right to adopt the following plan: — The leather and sailor's knot are to be applied as before directed, and a strong worsted tape is to be carried between the metacarpal bone of the thumb and the fore- finger. The arm is tlicn to be bent around a bed- post, and the worsted tape fixed to it. A pulley is N N 2