HEAD, INJURIES OF THE removed from the brain. After a violent attack of inflammation hernia cerebri made its appearance. It was excised by ligature, but it was reproduced ; iive or six ounces of brain were removed without any derangement to its functions. The man con- tinued able to raise himself up and to feed himself, portions of brain being removed daily. Com- pression of the tumor was employed, which imme- diately produced paralysis of the opposite side of the body : this continued until the pressure was remitted. He became afterwards violently con- vulsed, the pupils were discordant, and he died about three weeks from the attack. On opening the skull the brain on the injured side was softened and infiltrated with pus; and an enor- mous abscess was found occupying the whole mid- dle lobe, communicating with the ventricle, which was filled with pus. In the Transactions of a Society for Improving Medical and Surgical Knoioledge, 1807, p. 94, Sir E. Home relates two cases of fungus cerebri accompanied by abscess. In cases which have come under our own notice we have frequently remarked large abscesses at the root of the tu- mor ; and in patients dying at the first com- mencement of the fungus we have often found small abscesses at its root, or have seen abscesses opened in slicing off the fungus. Hill also, in his work, p. 135, records a case in which "a part of the brain was dissolved into pus about two inches round." Mr. Syme, of Edinburgh, has published a case of hernia cerebri occurring after a gunshot wound. The trephine was applied an inch and a half above and behind the right ear in consequence of depressed bone. On the eighth day a " soft round Bwelling as large as a nutmeg presented itself at the opening of the skull; a bandage and compress were applied to prevent its increase. On the 9th another protrusion presented itself at the side of that just mentioned." A portion weighing 110 grains was sliced off. The patient died on the seventeenth day after the accident. « The head was examined after death, when the dura mater, at the seat of injury, was seen perforated, sloughy and discoloured; at the same part an abscess as large as a walnut existed in the substance of the brain, which was otherwise healthy." {Med. Chir. Sevieiv, April 1841.) ♦ But to show that the disease occasionally results from the irritation of dead bone as well as from foreign bodies, 1 shall briefly advert to a few in- stances published by Mr. Mallet in the Transac- tions of the Prov. Med. and Surg. Association, 1839. In the first case the hernia disappeared after various small portions of the inner table of the bone had exfoliated. In another instance, after an injury to the brain from the falling of a lump of coal upon the head, " in eight days a slight elevation °^ ^["T'" ^'■"^ '^rain appeared, which conti- nued about a week, when a small piece of coal was discharged about the size of a pea. The rising iiien gradually disappeared by the sole application 01 lint wetted with very dilute nitric acid." nnH^i, fracture of the os frontis, and the removal of the broken and loose portions, appUminn, ' jP ,t P''^'""''' '■^"d ^'»'-''">8 local t«,ir.._' ,^ «'^?<^ <i"<=k's m- It then remained stationary tZ^ Z I "88- ^' ""en remained wMonary for about a fortnight, when 1 deter- mined to remove it wth the knife. The operation was performed m a few seconds, and apparently without the patient being sensible of paiii The wound was then accurately examined, and / found aspiculumof lone projecting from the inner table of the skull. It was removed, and the wound was completely cicatrised in about six weeks." In the last case mentioned, " when 'the knife was about halfway through the tumor, something presented a slight resistance to its progress, which afterwards proved to be a loose portion of bone " Mr. Mallet says, " It will be seen that four' of the live cases just mentioned were affected with hernia cerebri, and that in each of these four cases a foreign body was found acting as a constant source of irritation; and knowing how generally the occurrence of irritating bodies found in other parts is followed by fungous growths, partaking more or less of the nature of the part from which they proceed, I think it extremely probable that without some irritating cause we should not have hernia cerebri," In the Memoirs oftlie Academy of Surgery (see selections from, published by the Sydenham So- ciety) Louis relates the case of a man who suffered from fungus cerebri after a laceration of the brain by the splinter of a shell. The surgeon removed the fungus and with care extracted all the splin- ters of bone. In this case the cure was protracted until the thirteenth month after the accident. See also a case by Guthrie. (Op. cit. p. 142, note.) We could multiply cases of this description to show that the cause of the fungus must be sought tor below the surface whence the tumor appears to spring, and that the removal of the bony support must be regarded rather as a necessary condition than as a cause of the disease, as no protrusion can occur while the bone remains entire It is illogical to consider the removal of the bone an exciting cause, except in those cases in which the fungus can be traced to the irritation of dead bone at the circumference of the opening throu-rh which the tumor protrudes. Dis. Lawrie and King, of Glasgow, have published in tlie Edinburgh and London Journal for 1844 a great number of cases in many of which large abscesses were found near the root of the tumor, and they make the following remarks on the cases in reference to the cause of such protrusions : "It has been ob- jected that there must be in such cases some other power in operation besides the cause of protrusion above given; otherwise the brain would have ex- panded itself laterally, and filled the vacant space before it protruded externally. To us there ap- pears to be no such necessity, seeing that all pro- trusions have a tendency to project towards a point rather than to spread themselves indefinitely late- rally." In respect to the situation of these protrusions the same surgeons observe : " The cases before us would lead us to believe that the part of the head injured has some influence in favouring the cere- bral jirotrusion. Of fourteen cases, the injury in seven was situated partly or entirely over the frontal bone, in six over the parietals, and in one over the temporal; from which facts wo might be led to infer that hernia cerebri much more fre- quently follows injuries and operations on the superior and anterior part of the head, than on the lateral and posterior regions. It must, however, be recollected that injuries requiring operation