362 BURS^ MUCOSAE, between them, which sac, according to Andral, is formed at the expense of the celhilar tissue; and the same thing happens in cases of fracture wliere the bones continue united. (See Andral, Precis Anat. Pathol, t. i. p. 243.) Together with synovial biu'saj, Sir Benjamin Brodie arranges the sheaths of tendons, as they have the same structure and perform a similar office. In the healthy state, the lubricating fluid formed by the synovial bursse is so small in quan- tity, that it cannot be seen without opening the membrane containing it; but, occasionally, such an accumulation takes place that very* considerable swellings are the consequence. Tumors of this sort are often produced by bruises and sprains, and now and then by rheumatic affections. Sometimes they are not attended with much pain, though in other cases, when pressure is made with the fingers, it is rather acute. The tumors yield, in a certain degree, to pressure; but they rise again with an elasticity not remarked in other sorts of swellings. Generally they appear to be circumscribed, and con- fined to a small extent; but"sometimes the fluid forming them is so abundant that they extend over a considerable surface. The skin when not inflamed retains its usual colour. In this morbid state of the bursae mucosse, they contain different kinds of fluids, according to the cause of the disease. When the tumor depends on a rheumatic affection, the contents are mostly thin ; but they are usually glairy, transparent, and of the consistence of the white of egg. When the disease is the consequence of a bruise or sprain, the effused fluid often contains hard concretions, and, as it were, cartilaginous ones, which are sometimes quite loose, and more or less numerous. I have had some cases, in which they corresponded to Sir Benjamin Brodie's description, in bearing some resemblance, in shape and size, to small melon seeds. This is not unusual when the tumor is of long standing. Such substances may occa- sionally be felt with the fingers; but, in general, when the swelling is old, the cyst is thick, and prevents them from being perceptible. In the greater number of instances, inflamma- tion of the bursaj mucoste produces an increased secretion of synovia. In other cases, the bursa is distended with a somewhat turbid serum, con- taining floating portions of coagulable lymph._ The inflammation sometimes leads to the formation of matter, and occasionally the membrane of the bursa becomes thickened, and converted into a gristly substance. Sir Benjamin Brodie has seen it at least half an inch in thickness, with a small cavity in the centre containing synovia. In Univer- sity College Hospital, I lately saw a diseased bursa, equal in size to an orange, the membrane pf which was fully half an inch thick. The fluid within it contained numerous small bodies, of the size of melon seeds. In other instances, however, though the inflammation has lasted a considerable time, the membrane of the bursa retains nearly its original structure. {Pathological and Suryical Obs. on the Joints,]). 317, ed. 3.) According to the same authority, the disease may be the consequence of pressure or other local injury; sometimes of rheumatism, gout, or other constitutional affection; and, in such cases, the complaint is frequently joined witli inflammation of the synovial membrane of tiie joints. (See Joints.) Sometimes it has the form of an acute, but, more commonly, that of a chronic inflamma- tion. In the beginning. Sir Benjamin Brodie recom- mends the use of leeches and cold lotions, and afterwards that of blisters or stimulating liniments. In particular cases, he says, these means should be combined with such constitutional remedies as circumstances indicate. When the disease is of long standing, the preternatural secretion of fluid will often continue after the inflammation has entirely subsided. If blisters now fail in procuring its absorption. Sir Benjamin Brodie recommends friction; and, if this be unavailing, he considers it advisable to discharge the fluid by a puncture. The presence of loose substances in the bursa, he thinks, may of itself keep up a collection of fluid. Dr. Monro met with cases in which the ill con- sequences of a puncture were such as to render amputation necessary. These he imputed to the air having access to the interior of the bursa. Hence it has been recommended to pass a seton through the swelling, and to remove the silk after it has remained just long enough to excite inflam- mation of the cyst, when an attempt is to be made to unite the opposite sides of the cavity by pres- sure. This practice is sometimes approved of by Sir Benjamin Brodie on other grounds; he has noticed that after the whole cavity of the bursa has been converted into an abscess, and this has been cured, no fluid generally collects again. Hence, he has sometimes been induced to pass into the puncture a seton, or tent, or (what he deems better) the blunt end of a probe, for the irritation of the inner surface of the bursa. Tliis practice I tried very successfully on a young woman who was under my care. I punctured the bursa below the patella, and discharged about an ounce of fluid resembling white of egg. The disease had existed several months, and the bursa was much thickened. I kept the puncture open about ten days, during which time there was a discharge from it of the same kind of fluid, without .any tendency to sup- puration. I therefore introduced a tent into the opening, by which means the necessary degree of inflammation was excited, the bursa suppurated, and the disease was soon permanently cured, without any severe symptoms. [The injection of the tincture of iodine has been recommended by Velpeau, Chassaignac, and other French surgeons, as a preferable mode of exciting the necessary inflammation for the obliteration of enlarged burs.x.] Inflammation and suppuration of a large bursa. Sir Benjamin Brodie observes, sometimes disturb tiio the constitution so much, that it may bo prudent merely to make a puncture, and keep the patient afterwards perfectly quiet. He mentions a diseased bursa mucosa, which he had seen between tlio lower angle of the scapula and the latissinuis dorsi, and which was not much less than a man's head. In this case, death followed the constitutional dis- turbance excited by a puncture and a seton. In another example seen by this judicious surgeen. where the patient was in bad hcaltli, and the due observance of quietude was neglected, the puncture of a diseased bursa was followed by death. (Op. cit. p. 360.) In some instances, the makmg of an incision into a bursa mucosa has been followed by a fatal attack of plilegmouous erysipelas. Mr. Mayo believes, that there is never occasion