770 FUNGUS HTEMATODES on the part; Lut in general the exciting cause is perfectly obscure, the disease appearing to begin spontaneously, though in connection with some un- known peculiarity, or modification of the consti- tution, without wiiich no circumstances would be capable of inducing it: when we see a patient sallow and enfeebled in this disease, such change of the complexion, and the debility manifested, are not to be regarded as causes, but only as effects of the disease on the general health. (J. Bums, On Tnjlammation, vol. ii.) Mr. Hey recorded several cases of fungus haematodes, If I notice the principal circum- stances relative to one of these, they will suffice to inform the reader of the form in which this terrible affliction presented itself in this gentle- man's practice. A young man aged twenty-one, two years before applying to Mr. Hey, perceived a small swelling on the inside of the right knee, not far from the patella. This tumor was moveable, and did not impede the motion of the joint: it was not discoloured, but was paiuful when moved or pressed upon. It continued in this state half a year; and then, the man having hurt his knee against a stone, it gradually increased in bulk, but did not exceed the size of an egg. Tlie skin was now discoloured with blue specks, which were taken to be veins. He could still walk with ease, and follow his business. Two months before his admission into the Leeds Infirmary he met with a fall, and violently bent his knee, but did not strike it against anything. The tumor began immediately to enlarge; and within a few hours it extended half way up the inside of the thigh. About a fortnight after this accident the skin burst at the lowest part of the tumor, and discharged some blood. A dark-co- loured fungus, about the size of a pigeon's egg, here made its appearance; and, a few weeks afterwards, the skin burst at another part of the large tumor, and some blood was again discharged. From the fissure arose another fungus, which had increased, in the course of the last week, to the size of a small melon, and now measured eight inches from one side of its base to the other. The base of the fungus frequently bled, especially when the man allowed his limb to hang down. The whole tumor was now of an enormous size, being nineteen inches across, when the measure was carried over the last-mentioned fungus. From its highest part in the tiiigh to the lowest part, just below the knee, it measured seventeen inches, witii- out including the fungus. The base of the tumor at tlie knee, exclusive of that part which ran up the thigh, measured twenty-four inches in circum- ference. The tumor was situated on the inner side of the limb, and was distinctly defined. The skin covering the disease was in some places livid, and had several fissures and small ulcerations upon it; but had not burst asunder, except in the two places above described. The tumor was soft, and gave a sensation of some contained fluid, when gently pressed with tiie hands alternately in opposite di- rections. _ The patient said he had walked withcmt pam in his knee a week before his admission into the nifirmary; and he had lost very little blood in his j,)urnoy to Leeds. He complained of the great- est uneasniess in the highest part of the tumor. It nad become hot and painful in tho night-time, for 8omc days past. His pulse was 114 in a minute; his tongue was clean; and his appetite liad been good till the last few days. He had never felt any pulsation in the tumor. In a consultation it was detennined that the tumor should be laid open, by cutting off a por- tion of the distended integuments ; and that, after removing the contents, if the sac should be found in a sound state, the disease should be treated as a simple wound ; but if in a morbid state, am- putation of the limb should be immediately per- formed. A large oval piece of the integuments being re- moved, the tumor was found to contain a very large quantity of a substance not much unlike co- agulated blood, but more nearly resembling the medullary part of the brain in its consistence and oily nature. It was of a variegated reddish colour, in some parts approaching to white, and, as blood issued from it, Mr. Hey conceived it was organ- ised. This mass was partly diffused through the cir- cumjacent parts in innumerable pouches, to which it adhered, and was partly contained in a large sac of an aponeurotic texture, which was connected with the capsule of the knee-joint. There was a great and universal effusion of blood from the internal suiface of the sac, and from the pouches containing this morbid mass. On finding such to be the nature of the case, amputation of the limb was immediately per- formed. Mr. Hey unfortuuatelj'', however, left a portion of the diseased surface behind on the inner part of the thigh, and hoping that a small narrow portion of the npper part of the sac would soon become a clean sore, and not impede the cure, he made the circular incision tsvo inches below its higher part. On examining the amputated limb, the vastus internus was found to be brown, and much softer than the other muscles, which were healthy. There were many small portions of blood extra- vasated in the substance of this muscle. The sac was formed on the aponeurotic covering of tlie muscle, and ended below where this aponeurosis begins to cover the capsular ligament of the knee. The two fungous substances above described appeared to have been only extensions of the morbid mass, where this had made its way through the sac and the integuments. The joint of the knee, and muscles of tho leg, were perfectly sound. I need not detail all the particulars after the operation. Suffice it to say the man suffered a great deal of constitutional disorder. After a few weeks, the granulations upon the stump became good, and the cicatrization was nearly completed at the end of the sixth week after tho amputa- tion. At this period the small and superficial por- tion of the upper part of the great sac, which Mr. Hey had unfortunately left, was healed ; but a tumor, now about four inches in length, and be- tween two and three in breadth, had gradually risen at the lower and under part of the thigh, beneath the cicatrix. This contained a soft sub- stance, exactly similar, as far as the touch could discover, to that which had filled the large sac This tumor became painful, and sometimes dis- charged a bloody serum, sometimes dark-coloured blood, through four or five small openings in the cicatrix. . Mr. Hey laid open the tumor, and removed its contents : but no advantage was gained by this