ANEURISM. 160 upon the artery lower down, had rendered the artery in this situation impervious. ( A fourth mode of cure is ilhistrated in a case, 1 related by Sir Astley Cooper : a man, in Guy's 1 Hospital, had an aneurism just below the groin ( He was sitting before the fire, when he felt some- i thing burst in the upper part of his thigh. On ; examination, he found no blood had escaped, and, 1 in fact, the aneurism had not yet reached the skin, \ so as to be adiierent to it. Plis thigh, however, ] was enormously swelled ; he was unable to use 1 his limb, and was put to bed. For_ three days ( afterwards a pulsation was perceptible in the aneu- : rism ; but it then ceased, and the size of the limb began to diminish. At the end of (owe months, ; the aneurismal swelling had considerably sub- sided ; he could use the limb ; and in less than si.v; months, he was discharged from the hospital. He afterwards fell a victim to the rupture of another aneurism in the abdomen. On examin- ation of the bod}', it was found, that the aneurism in the thigh, just below Poupart's ligament, had burst under the fascia lata, and the femoral artery has been obliterated by the pressure of the large quantity of effused blood. " The surgical treatment of aneurism (says Mr. Hodgson) consists in the obliteration of the cavity of the artery communicating with the sac, so that the ingress of the blood into the latter is either entirely prevented, or the stream which passes through it is supplied only by anastomosing branches, and consequently the force of the circu- lation is so much diminished, that the increase of the tumor is prevented, and the deposition of coa- gulum is promoted. By the absorption of its con- tents, and the gradual contraction of the sac, the cure is ultimately accomplished. The blood is con- veyed to the parts, which it is destined to supply, by collateral vessels, some of v/hich, being gradually enlarged, constitute permanent channels for the cir- culation. The obliteration of the artery is effected by the excitement of such a degree of inflammation in its coats, as shall produce adhesion of its sides. These objects have been attempted by the com- pression, or the ligature, of the arter}'." (P. 165.) Such are the principles of the ordinary mode of cure ; but it appears, from certain facts recorded by Rlr. Wardrop, Dr. Bush, Dr. Mott, and other practitioners, that some aneurisms may be cured by a surgical operation, which was first suggested by Brasdor, or, according to Bichat, by Desault, and the design of which is to hinder the free trans- mission of blood through the aneurismal sac by tying the artery on that side of it which is most remote from the" heart. This practice, however, is only allowable in certain examples, in which the application of a ligature in the common way is no longer practicable, because its success is much less probable, as might easily be anticipated, since the plan does not comprise the very desirable object of directly preventing the entrance of blood into the aneurismal sac. To this subject, however, we shall presently return. According to Scarpa, a complete cure of an aneurism cannot he effected, m whatever part of the bodi/ the tumor is situated, nntess the artery, from ivhich the aneurism is derived, be, bi/ nature or art, obliterated, and converted into a jierfectlij solid, ligamentous substance, for a certain extent above and below the place of the ulceration, lacer- atinn, or wnmid. Notwithstanding aneurisms cannot in general be cured, as Scarpa has explained, unless the arterj* be rendered impervious for some extent above and below the tumor, I believe we must make an exception to this observation, with respect to the few aneurisms of the aorta (especially those of its arch), which, according to the records of surgery, have been diminished and cured by Valsalva s treatment. In such examples, we are not to sup- pose that the aorta becomes obliterated at its veiy beginning ; but that the diminution of the quantity of circulating blood, the reduced impetus of this fluid, the lessened distention of the aneurismal sac, the general weakness induced in the constitution, and the increased activity of the lymphatic system, — all necessary effects of Valsalva's method,— have combined to bring about a partial subsidence of the tumor. "It is a common opinion (saj's Mr. Hodgson), that the radical cure of an aneurism cannot take place without the obliteration of the artery from which the disease originates. It is probably owing to this idea, that aneurisms of the aorta have gene- rally been considered as incurable diseases, and consequently that so little attention has been given to their treatment." (P. 118.) The facts, how- ever, which this gentleman has related, satisfac- torily prove — 1st, That a deposition of coagulum may take place in an aneurismal sac, to such an extent as entirely to block up the communication between its cavity and that of the artery from which it originates. 2ndly, That a sac, thus filled with coagulum, cannot prove fatal by rupture ; and, 3rdly, That the gradual absorption of its con- tents, and the consequent contraction of the sac, may proceed to such an extent as to effect the cure of ike disease, without any obstruction talcing^ place in the calibre of the vessel from which it originates. (See cases 20, 21, 22,&c. Hodgson, On Diseases of the Arteries, ^c. p. 119, &c.) In support of this doctrine, some facts arc also cited from Corvisart. {Bssai sur les Maladies du Caur, p. 313, &c.) A part of these cases, it is true, are not viewed exactly in this light by Kreysig, who argues (as I think without much probability), that they might have been only adipose swellings, connected with, or formed in, the parietes of the arter}-,— a disease described by Stenzel. (German Transl. of Mr. Hodgson's book, p. 174.) Corvisart himself, instead of regarding such tumors as aneurisms in the progress of cure, con- ceived them to be aneurisms in the course of form- ation ; and, on this point, Mr. Guthrie suspects that he was correct; because " the contents of the tumor were a substance of less consistence than suet, whilst in all the cases of spontaneous cure, in which, from the historj^ the previous existence of aneurism was known, the contents have always been firm, or vert/ firm. {Guthrie, On Dis. of ■ Arteries, p. 38.) But whatever may have been the nature of the swelling referred to by Corvisart, the fact of sacciform aneurisms of the aorta being sometimes entirely filled up by solid blood, and the disease cured on this principle, with the great ' channel of the aorta itself remaining pervious, is now universally acknowledged. That a punctured artery may occasionally lie ' healed, and still continue pervious, Scarpa himselt ' proves, by a case which he examined, whcxe an aneurism took place from the wound of a lancet in blocdinT. In the article Hemorrhage, we