689 FRACTURE, undue pressure is occasioned at any point, and if this is the case, the fault is remedied by moistening it at that part and moulding it to the required shape. If the bandage is too tight it may be enlarged by separating the cut edges, and a piece of moistened pasteboard may be laid over the interval ; if, on the other hand, it is too large, as is frequently the case from the shrinking of the limb, the edges can be cut away or can be made to overlap. When, by these manoeuvres, a perfectly-fitting case has been obtained, it can be again firmly fixed by another bandage, which is to be covered, like the former ones, with starch. Many surgeons do not follow M. Seutin's practice in dividing the bandage for the purpose of inspecting the limb and adjusting it more exactl)', but unless pain or great discomfort is complained of, allow it to remain undisturbed. The pasteboard splints also are only necessar)'; when very firm support is required ; in the upper extremity, especially, two or three layers of band- age stiffened with starch .are usually sufficient. M. Velpeau uses a solution of dextrine in preference to starch ; it does not, however, possess any special advantage, excepting perhaps that it produces a somewhat firmer and harder case. Greater solidity may be easily obtained, if required, by adding a little powdered chalk to the starch solution. It is an important question whether the "wi- removahle apparatus" should be applied immediately after the occurrence of the fracture, or whether it should be delayed until the swelling and inflam- matory disturbance have subsided. Many con- tinental surgeons, and among others M. Velpeau, advocate its immediate employment, and allege that the compression which it exercises is advan- tageous in preventing the development of inflam- mation, and also in procuring its resolution, if it does take place. Mr. Erichsen also speaks of having followed this practice in a large number of fractures of all kinds, and with very satisfactory results. The majority of English surgeons, how- ever, prefer not to lose sight of the limb until the inflammatory awelling has subsided, and the parts about tlie fracture are in a quiescent state. The proper period will arrive sooner of course in some cases than in others, often at the end of four or five days in the upper extremity, often not for ten days or a fortnight in thelower extremity, oralonger period if the soft parts have been much contused. Used in this manner, the starched bandage is a very Taluable aid in the treatment of fractures, and is productive of great comfort to the patient.] In oblique fractures of the thigh, and sometimes even in those of the leg, the difficulty of accom- plishing by the ordinary means a cure free from deformity, and especially without a shortening of the limb, led to the idea of employing permanent CJienswn. This is effected by the operation of a bandage, or machine, which continually draws the fragments of the broken bone in contrary direc- tions, at the same time that it restrains them from gliding over each other, and maintains them in contact during the whole time necessary for their union. In Englatid this practice appears to liave been chased away by Pott's dazzling theory of relaxing every nniscle in such manner as to render it incapable of displacing an oblique fracture. Desault saw, however, great inconsistency in the doctrine of the possibility of relaxing the nuisclcs, BO as to incnpacitato the whole set of them con- nected with a broken thigh ; and he never ceased to inculcate that a mechanical apparatus was the main thing by which the shortening of the limb was to be prevented. When wo consider the treatment of fractured thighs, we shall find that the principle of permanent but moderate extension has had in France advocates of great talent and eminence, though it is a method to which many surgeons in this country for a long time entertained strong objections. By means of permanent extension (observes Boyer), we not only succeed in imiting the frac- ture, while the limb preserves its natural length ; but we afford the part a steadiness which is sin- gularly favourable to the formation of the callus. In order to derive from permanent extension the utmost benefit, and render the method as little painful as possible, and supportable during the whole time of treatment, he recommended the machines and bandages to be constructed and ap- plied conformably to the following rales. We should avoid compressing the muscles ivhich pass over the situation of the fracture, and the elongation of ivhich organs is necessary to restore to the limb the length which it has lost by the gliding of the fragments over each other. The extending and counter-extending force ought to be divided upon as large surfaces as possible. The powers, making permanent extensioji, should act according to the direction of the axis of tlie bvohen bone. Tlie extension should be practised in as sloic, gradual, aiid insensible a manner as possible. Lastly: the parts, upon ivhich tlie extending and counter-extending force acts, should be defended ; and the compression, made by the tapes, or other pieces of the bandage and apparatus, ought to be equalised. {Mai, Cliir. t. iii. p. 56, 59.) If we consider the principles on which the me- chanical means operate usefully in the treatment of different fractures, we shall find that they are various.^ For the most part, they have this effect by holding the ends of the fracture steadily in contact, maintaining the proper length of the limb, and hindering motion not only of the broken bone itself but of the joints connected with it, without which object being fulfilled, the fracture must always be liable to hurtfid disturbance. In frac- tures of the shafts of the femur and humerus, and of the tibia, fibula and bones of the fore-arm, the apparatus acts beneficially in all or some of these ways ; but, on certain occasions, it accomplishes its purpose, not by any direct action on the broken part of the limb itself, but by holding the limb in a particular position, and maintaining itsdue length. Thus, when the neck, or upper part of the thigh- bone is broken, the apparatus can have but an imperfect effect by its direct operation on the frac- ture, this portion of the bone being, as it were, not \yithin its innnediate grasp. But, by holding ttie limb in the right position, keeping it steady, and preventing its retraction, and the eversii>n or in- version of the foot, it accomplishes all which it is in the power of surgeons to do, especially if caro bo taken to let the pelvis and broken portion of the bone be so connected together by the app:iratu.», as to render them, as it were, one piece, only moveable together, in every movement of the patient, or change in the surface on which he islving. Frequently position does everything, without the slightest attempt to make any direct pressure on tlio fractm-e, or to act upon it immediately by Y Y