8?1 HARE-LIP. this way with success. (Mem. de I'Acad, de CMr. t. iv. 4to.) M. Louis was of opinion that all difficulties would be obviated by doing the opera- tion at two different times, and awaiting the per- fect cure of one of the fissures before that of tlie other was undertalcen. Experience proves, how- ever, that it is not essential to perform two ope- rations for the cure of the double hare-lip. Desault found that when the edges of the two fissures were pared off, and care taken to let one of the pins pass across the central piece of the lip, the prac- tice answered extremely well. (See CEuvres Chir. t. ii. p. 201.) Dupuytren had a particular method of operating in some cases of complicated hare-lip. He ob- served that when the labial tubercle was inserted very close to the point of the nose, its union to the lateral parts drew the lip upwards, and exposed the gums and teeth; while the nose itself was palled down and flattened in a most ugly man- ner. Hence he conceived that it would be bet- ter to employ the labial tubercle in forming the lower part of the partition of the nose, and to unite at once the lateral portions of the lip. He first divided with a bistomy the fold of mucous mem- brane uniting the labial tubercle to the osseous one, and then, with a pair of cutting forceps, re- moved all such portions of the latter as projected beyond the anterior level of the jaws. He next pared off the sides of the cutaneous tubercle and its lower edge. These things having been done, the vertical margin of the fissure, on each side, was cut off with a pair of scissors. The two lateral portions of the lip were now brought together and united with two pins ; and then the fresh-cut bleeding middle tubercle was laid over the bony partition of the nostrils, of which it was to form the lower portion. A third pin was applied so as to include at once the upper end of each part of the lip, and the loose extremity of the reflected tubercle. Lastly, two interrupted sutures united the angles of this tubercle to the lateral portions of the lip. The sutures were assisted with strips of adhesive plaster, and a bandage, that made pressure on the apex of the nose, so as to keep the flap from being too much stretched, (See Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 92.) [Four interesting cases in which this practice has been followed are recorded byMr.Fergusson. {Prac- tical Surgery, p. 572, 673.) Voss, of Christiania, has recently revived the operation h, deux temps, first uniting one side to convert the double into a single hare-lip, and three weeks afterwards de- pressing the inter-maxillary protuberance and unit- ing the remaining fissure. The cases must be very rare, however, in which it would not be preferable to complete the operation at one sitting. 3. tjnion of the raw edges may be effected by ordinary insect needles, or hare-lip pins with glass or wax heads, or silver pins with movable steel points, or by some modification of the quill suture, such as Mr. Brooke's beads, or the metal button of Mr. Wood, of Gloucester; or, lastly, by the simple suture, interrupted or uninterrupted, of silk or of wire.] Although the generality of surgeons use tho twisted suture, Sir Astley Cooper gave tho. prefer- ence to thn common interrupted suture, on account of the difficulty sometimes experienced in with- drawing the pins, and the liability of the new ad- hesions to be broken on the occasion ; whereas the threads of a common suture may be cut, and taken out with the greatest facility. However, as most children cry on the removal of the suture, whether one kind or the other be employed, the only safe plan is not to withdraw the pins or ligatures till three or four complete days have elapsed from the time of the operation, when the adhesions will be tolerably strong ; and the cheeks should always be held for- ward by an assistant, until the plasters, and, if deemed necessary, compresses and a bandage, have been put on. [At Guy's Hospital, Mr. Cock and Mr. Forster have followed Sir Astley Cooper's practice, but employ the uninterrupted suture. Most surgeons, however, prefer some form of hare-lip pins, believing that union is more certainly attained by their use, and that the objection to the scar at the points of exit and entrance is trivial.] The simplest pin is that used by Dr. Barton, of Philadelphia, who prefers a piece of iron wire, with a point made by simply cutting it with a pair of scissors. Thus he avoids the risk of the steel point slipping off the pin, and remaining within the lip ; an accident which Dr. Reese states has often happened. " So many failures " says he, " have occurred from the pins being torn out by the child, or catching in the nurse's clothes, that, if there were no other objec- tion to the use of pins, they ought to be abandoned. Many surgeons in this country [the United States], and among these Dr. Mott, have adopted the in- terrupted suture in cases of hare-lip, and with the most satisfactory results." Notice is then taken of Sir Astley Cooper's relinquishment of the twisted suture. (See Z)r. Reese's Amer. ed. of this Diet.) It is obvious that a great deal of exactness is re- quisite in introducing the pins, in order that the edges of the incision may afterwards be precisely applied to each other. For this purpose some surgeons previously place the sides of the wound in the best position, and mark with a pen the points at which the pins should enter and come out again. The pins ought never to extend more deeply than about two thirds through the sub- stance of the lip. [The lowest pin should be in- troduced first, just at the red margin of the lip, and close to the orifices of the bleeding coronary arteries, so that the pressure of the two opposed sur- faces may compress the vessels and stop the bleed- ing. The next pin should be introduced about half an inch above the first; and a third, or even a fourth, may be necessary. A piece of thread or stocking-cotton is then to be repeatedly wound round the ends of each pin, from one side to the other, in the form of a figure of 8, each pin being treated separately. Lastly, the steel points of the pins are to be taken off by a pair of cutting pliers, and collodion may be brushed over tho threads until they are saturated with it. Various kinds of plaster, compresses, and ban- dagos have been used for pushing the cheeks for- ward and causing the lip to part, so as to take off all strain upon tho stitches. By far the best is Hainsby's truss, so strongly recommended by Mr, Fergusson. (Op. cit. p. 671.) In general, the pins may be removed on the fourth day. When collodion has been used, no plaster is required, as tho threads saturated with dry collodion adhcn; for many days, and form ex- cellent splints. When collodion has not been used, or the threads have come oif, a strip of plaster may be applied to support a delicate cicatrix. Mr. Allen Duke {Lancet, 12 March 18S8) re- 3K4