957 HERNIA. " This species of hernia, properly speaking, is a mixture of the ventral and inguinal. It resembles the former, inasmuch as the hernial sac pierces the aponeurosis of the transverse and internal ob- lique muscles; the latter, inasmuch as it passes out at the abdominal ring, conjointly with the spermatic cord." {Scarpa, Traite des Hernies, p. 68, &c.) Hesselbach particularly adverts to a triangtilar space to be seen on the posterior surface of the in- guinal region: the inner Ijoundary of it is formed by the outer edge of the rectus muscle; the lower by the horizontal branch of the os pubis, and the external shortest boundary by the epigastric artery. Now, says he, when it is considered that this artery as- cends obliquely inwards, between the inner open- ing of the inguinal canal, and the above triangular space, one cannot fail to know on which side of the neck of the sac the artery must lie in the two species of inguinal, as well as in crural, hernia; for in those hemiae which originate in the above triangular space, this artery lies at the outer side of the neck of the hernial sac; while in every hernia that takes place through the inner opening of the inguinal canal, the same vessel is situated at the inner side of the neck of the sac. To one species of inguinal hernia Hesselbach applies the epithet external, and to the other internal, according to the situation of the point at which they first pro- trude. By Sir A. Cooper they are named oblique and direct, which are also very proper terms. The external inguinal hernia is much more frequent than the internal, and is said to occur oftener on the right than the left side of the body; a circum- stance coinciding with another observation, viz. that in children the tunica vaginalis remains longer open on the right than thQ left side. The circumstance of there being two forms of inguinal hernia formerly caused considerable per- plexity : surgeons knew that the epigastric artery lay sometimes at the inner, sometimes at the outer side of the neck of the hernial sac, but knew not how to account for this variation. Hence arose the very different opinions about the proper method of dividing the ring when the hernia was strangulated; some authors directing the incision to be made obliquely upwards and inwards, and others up- wards and outwards. But, as a modern writer has judiciously remarked, had they paid greater atten- tion to the direction of the swelling formed by the neck and body of the hernial sac in the groin, and to the position of the spermatic cord, which is ns inconstant as that of the epigastric artery; and had they dissected the parts in the diseased as well as lieaithy state, they could not have failed soon to liave suspected that every inguinial hernia does not originate exactly at one and the same point. Though the internal, or direct inguinal hernia, had been occasionally noticed by surgeons many years ago, and Mr. Cline, in particular, saw an example of it in the year 1777, and always mentioned it in his subsequent lectures, yet the earliest satisfac- tory history of the differences of the two forms of inguinal hernia was given by Sir A. Cooper, in his great work on hernia; and the tract in which Hesselbach pointed out the nature of the internal inguinal liernia in a very particular manner, I be- lieve is the next publication in which the subject is explained. (Anal. CJiir, Ahhandlunc) uher den Ursprung der Leistenhriiche, Wurzb. 180b"; and Neueste Anat, Pathol, (Jniersuchungen uber den Ursprung, ^o. der Leiskn-und-Schenkelbruche, 4to. Wurzb. 1814, p. 18, 26, 28, &c.) According to the latter author, since each form of inguinal hernia presents characteristic appearances exter- nally, the surgeon can have no difficulty in deter- mining the species of hernia; which discrimination must be highly important in the taxis, in the appli- cation of a truss, and especially in performing the operation. The sac of the external scrotal hernia can only pass down within the fascia infundibuliformis, and the expansion of the cremasteras far as this latter part is separate from the cord and tunica vaginalis. Hence, the testis, covered by its tunica vaginalis, lies under the lowest part of the hernial sac, while the vessels of the spermatic cord, in a more or less separated form, are situated behind the posterior part of the sac, viz. the spermatic veins externally, and the vas deferens internally, and the artery in the middle. Should the hernia descend still fur- ther, the testis being included as well as the sac within the tendinous expansion of the cremaster, it cannot glide out of the way, but must be pressed still further downwards by the sac, so as to con- tinue invariably under its fundus, but sometimes inclined a Utile behind it. (Hesselbach, p. 34.) And, as the same author justly observes, the posi- tion of the spermatic cord and testis, and the ob- lique direction of the swelling in the external species, are the two strongest characters by which every case of inguinal hernia may be discriminated. I know of only one direct case in which the cord was behind the sac, as in the common external in- guinal hernia; it was seen by Mr. Lawrence. (On. Ruptures, p. 210, ed. 4.) [Two kinds of direct inguinal hernia are now recognised by surgeons; they have been distin- guished firom each other by the terms of superior and inferior. The latter is the more common, and has been sufficiently described in the preceding two columns. The former, or superior direct in- guinal hernia, will be readily understood by a reference to the anatomy of the posterior surface of the abdominal wall in the inguinal region. It will be remembered that a triangular space here exists, already alluded to, bounded internally by the rectus muscle, externally by the epigastric artery, and below by the inner half of Poupart's ligament. This triangular space is opposite to the external abdominal ring, and to the inner two thirds of the inguinal canal. It is divided un- equally by the remains of the umbilical artery as it ascends obliquely upwards and inwards to gain the umbilicus. The ordinary direct inguinal hernia protrudes into the larger space which is situated between the rectus muscle and the re- mains of the umbilical artery. The superior direct or more rare kind takes the smaller space left between the latter structure and the epigastric artery. Both kinds of direct inguinal hernia would therefore be situated internal to the epi- gastric artery. But the superior internal inguinal hernia would enter the inguinal canal close to this artery, and would pass under the lower edge of the transversalis and internal oblique muscles. It would hero come in contact with the cord, and would gain a covering from the cremaster muscle. In its further descent through the exter- nal ring into the scrotum it would of course retain its position with regard to the cord and the cre- master muscle. The coverings of this hernia would be the same as in the oblique inguinal