AMPUTATION. 101 \vhich, with some modifications, ia now commonly adopted by those who prefer flap amputations. The surgeon, passing his knife close behind the bones, transfixes tlie limb at or a little below the level at which he intends to apply the saw, and cuts a flap i'rom the calf of the leg four or five inches in length. The angles of this flap are united by <an incision, slightly convex downvvards, across the anterior half of the leg. The skin in front is then dissected up for about half an inch, and retracted by an assistant, who also holds back the flap. The re- maining muscles are divided and the operation finished as in the circular method. The soft parts are so readily held out of the way of the saw, that the retractor is usually dispensed with. The an- terior incision may be made either before or after transfixion, at the option of the surgeon.] The following was Mr. Liston's method. If the right leg was to be removed, he placed himself on its inner side, and grasped the lower part of the limb with his left hand, an assistant supporting the foot at a proper height. The knife was introduced over the outer side of the fibula, and carried up- wards along that bone, for an inch and a half or two inches. It was then brought across the limb in a semicircular direction ; and as soon as it reached the inner and lower part of the tibia, transfixion was performed by pushing the knife across the posterior surface of the bone, and out at the upper part of the fibular incision. By then carrying the knife downwards, a posterior flap was formed suffi- cient to cover the bones. The integuments on the forepart were then dissected upwards a little, with the same knife, so as to form a small semilunar flap. The muscles in the interosseous space were next cat through, and the knife carried round the bones in order to divide the soft parts. [These amputations might be made to partake more of the character of double flap operations by not cutting so long a flap from behind, and by saving more skin at the anterior part of the leg ; but they will then have the disadvantage that the cicatrix will be near the middle of the stump instead of at its anterior part ; and also that the covering for the ends of the bones will not be of uniform thickness, in consequence of the greater bulk of the soft parts comprised in the posterior flap. Flap amputation of the leg is open to the objection that the flap will contain a thick unwieldy mass of muscle, which can with difiiculty be kept applied over the surface of the stump, and in which the muscles will generally be cut at a lower level than the skin, so as to prevent the edges of the wound being brought into good apposition, unless some of the redundant muscular substance be removed. This is especially the case if the muscles are well developed ; and if transfixion is practised close behind the bones, which is the plan most com- monly recommended. For this reason, many surgeons who are not averse to flap operations in other parts, consider them unsuited to this region, and in this opinion the writer entirely coincides.] Dr. Bushe, as already mentioned, conceives that it is only in amputating below the knee that the circular incision is decidedly preferable to the flap operation. He "never saw a case, where a flap was formed from the calf of the leg, in which con- siderable retraction of the remaining muscles did not ensue, attended with groat induration of the flap, separation of its edge from the skin on the front of the tibia, sometimes exfoliation of the bone. and generally tedious suppuration." (Lancet, No. 246, p. 208.) [Mr. South says, that "so far as his experience proves, flap operations in the continuity of the bone may be performed as successfully as cii'cular operations on every limb but the leg, in which the calf muscles are so bulky that it is often difficult to get the skin well over them, if they be left, and he does not think the cure so quick as with the circular." (SouiA^s Chelius, vol. ii. p. 903.) And Mr. Syme, who was at one period a very strong advocate for amputation by flap in this situation, has, for reasons similar to thoseabove stated, changed his opinion, and now employs the circular operation. Mr. Syme's incisions are, however, not exactly circular, but he forms a short anterior and posterior flap of integuments only, which being dissected up the muscles are cut by circular incision. He now divides the bone somewhat higher than usual (an inch or an inch and a half below the tuberosity of the tibia.) (Lancet, Feb. 1855, p. 203.) To obviate the inconvenience arising from the presence of too much muscle, Mr, Skey recom- mends that a part only of the thickness of the calf should be included in the flap. " The leg being raised, the calf should be supported on the open palm of the left hand of the operator, by which it is flattened out considerably in breadth. The knife is then introduced through the skin at a depth of not more than half or three quarters of an inch above the palm of the hand, and passed straight across to the opposite side, and the posterior flap, which in addition to the integuments will thus include a small thin portion of the gastrocnemius, is formed of sufficient length to pass forwards around the end of the tibia. The anterior flap is now cut, but of small dimensions. A circular sweep of the knife round the limb is then made, which divides the rest of the calf, and the catlin is introduced through the deep muscles and inter- osseous membrane. (Op. Surg. p. 368.)] [External Flap.—Some of the French surgeons recommend the formation of a flap composed of skin and muscle from the external side of the leg, and the result is stated to be satisfactory. The soft parts being drawn outwards, the limb is transfixed from before backwards and a flap is cut about four inches in length. In transfixing, the knife must be kept as close as possible to the outer side of the bones, due care being taken that it does not pass between the tibia and fibula. The angles of the flap are united by an incision slightly convex downwards on the inner side of the limb. (See A. Gucrin El. de CMr. Opcr. tom i. p. 176.)] Amputation above the Place of Election. —The principal reasons have already been specified for the general custom of amputating the leg about four inches below the patella; and it was formerly the custom if the disease or injury would not admit of the operation being done thus low, to remove the limb above the knee-joint. In the Egyptian cam- paign, however, Baron Larrey performed two am- putations very ne.ar the knee-joint, almoston a level with the head of the fibula, which he judged proper to extirpate. The successful result of these oper- ations dispelled the fear which this experienced surgeon previously entertained about amputating in the thick part of the upper head of the tibia; for no caries of tliis spongy portion of the bono, no liad efl'ects on the knee-joint, and no anchy- losis of the stump ensued : and, with the dilference of a few days, the wound healed as readily as