1034 HYDROCELE the penis never appears so much retracted as in simple hydrocele of equal size. An omental hernia, or an encysted hydrocele of the cord, might be mistaken for a diffused hydro- cele of the spermatic cord. In regard to the former, Scarpa observes, that " the diffused hydro- cele of the cord, when it enters into the ring, resembles an omental hernia so closely that it is very difficult to distinguish the two complaints. Both have a cylindical form, and extend into the ring. They are similar in consistence and degree of sensibility, as well as in the difficulty ex- perienced in returning them. Pott represents that the omentum, when returned, remains in the abdomen until the patient assumes the erect posi- tion, or makes some effort; while the swelling in diffused hydrocele comes back immediately. I have found, however, that the omentum comes down quickly in some omental herniee, and that the svvelling, when pushed up, does not reappear immediately in some cases of diffused hydrocele. I have observed that the swelling is firmer and more irregular on the surface in the epiplocele than in the watery effusion ; and that the latter is larger below than above, while-these proportions are reversed in the rupture." (SuW JSrnie, Mem. 1, xxxii. quoted from Lawrence, On Hernia, 5 th edit. p. 251.) Mr. Lawrence remarks, that "the distinction of the two cases must rest on the following points :—the impulse on coughing in the rupture; the complete removal of the swelling, and the sense of the omentum passing up into the abdomen; its visible and tangible escape from the cavity when the rupture is brought down again by coughing, and the free natural condition of the cord and ring when the swelling has been replaced. The fluctuation of the watery tumor at its lower part; the absence of impulse in coughing ; its im- perfect removal uader pressure, so that the cord can never be felt in a natural state; and sometimes a visible enlargement of the inguinal canal and its neighbourhood when the fluid is pressed upwards." Mr. Curling thinks that an irreducible epiplo- cele would be even more liable to be mistaken for a diffused hydrocele. In cases of much difficulty and doubt, an opinion should not only be guarded, but any operation must be performed with caution. Scarpa, indeed, frankly confesses the imperfection of our art with respect to the diagnosis in these cases. Diffused hydrocele is distinguished from encysted hydrocele of the cord by the pyramidal and somewhat diffused form of the svvelling, which extends to the ring; by the alteration in shape producible by pressure; and by the absence of fluctuation in its upper part. In diffused hydro- cele the testicle is clearly perceptible, and the case cannot well be mistaken for simple hydrocele; nor again can it be confounded with varicocele.] In the treatment of this affection it is recom- mended to leave it alone when very small, and a suspensory bandage to be worn; but when it is large, and inconvenient both from its size and weight, according to Pott the only method of cure which it admits of is that of making a free incision into the swelling. But this is by no means void of hazard, and has led to fatal consequences, as mentioned by Pott. [It admits, however, of tem- porary if not permanent relief, with less risk than he supposed. For as the cells communicate freely, It is not necessary to make a-large incision for the removal of the fluid, one or two acupunctures in the depending part of the tumor being sufficient ■ to enable the fluid to escape into the areolar tissue of the scrotum, from whiclx it will be removed by absorption. The cyst then becomes consolidated. Before adopting acupuncture, blisters, counter-irri- tant plasters, friction with camphorated mercurial or iodine liniments, and a suspensory banda;^t- should be tried; and they will occasionally prove successful.] Encysted Hydrocele of the Spermatic Cord.— This condition occurs more frequently in children and young persons than in adults. The same kind of disease also, sometimes, is met with in the round ligament of the uterus, and accompanies it through the abdominal ring. Hydrocele of the cord was known to the ancients, and has been accurately described by Albucasis, Celsus, Paulus .^Sgineta, and others. It is much more frequent than diffused hydrocele of the cord, but not at all equal in frequency to that of hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. Kicherand has calculated that the average proportion of en- cysted hydroceles of the cord to those of the latter description is not more than as one to two hundred. (Nosogr. Cliir. t. iv. p. 262, ed. 4.) [The cyst is formed of a thin transparent mem- brane, possessing the ordinary characters of a serous membrane, and contains, generally, a limpid aqueous fluid, with little or no albumen, but some- times a straw-coloured serum, similar to the fluid of simple hydrocele. In form it is oval, and varies in size, but seldom exceeds that of a hen's egg, and is usually smaller. It is loosely attached to the vessels of the cordj which are situated at its back part, but become separated and displaced by it. The investments of the cyst are the in- teguments, superficial fascia, external spermatic or intercolumnar fascia, musculo-aponeurotic sheath of the crernaster muscle, and fascia transversalis. Its situation varies along the com'se of the cord, being either immediately above the testicle, in the middle of the cord, or just below the abdo- minal ring, and even within the inguinal canal, Mr. Curling states that, usually, there is a single cyst, but occasionally several are developed, and a chain of them has been formed along the cord. The origin of encysted hydrocele of the cord is attributed to a partial or imperfect obliteration of the prolongation of peritoneum, formed at the period of the descent of the testicle, and in con- sequence of this serous membrane remaining un- closed at one or more spots, an isolated sac or sacs are left in the course of the spermatic cord, A cyst of this kind, when distended with serum, con- stitutes an encysted hydrocele. " Such is obviously the mode of origin of this affection when occurring in infants, and no doubt in adults it generally ori- ginates in the same way. Jules Cloquet has re- marked that the remains of the peritoneal process accompanying the testicles in their descent were met with in male subjects of all ages, and he men- tions, as a singular circumstance, that they were nearly as frequently found in the old as in the young subjects." {Curling, op. cit, p. 156, ed. 2.) The swelling is not painful, and is seldom dis- covered until it has attained to a considerable size The swelling is oval and well defined, and perfectljf distinct from the testicle and epididymis, wliicU are to be felt below it. Mr. Curling menUons that the vessels forming the cord can generally be traced to the posterior part of the cyst. It undergoes no