8,00 iQuesnaij, Memoirs of the Frcncl Academy, Sy- denham Society.) Perhaps it is better to restrict the term to those fractures which occur to a part of the skull far removed li-oni, if not diametrically opposite to, the seat of the original blow ; and thi's definition corresponds to the idea which Hippo- crates seems to have had of such cases. (^Genuine Works of Hippocrates, Sydenham Society, p. 451.) The vaulted form of the skull favours the transmis- sion of vibrations from one part to another, and from experiments on the cranium after death it appears that counter-fracture is by no means impos- sible; but its occurrence in the living subject, if it ever happen, is excessively rare. {Humphry on the Skeleton, p. 205.) Where the cranium is forcibly compressed in any direction between two forces, fracture may happen on either side: thus, in falls upon the vertex from a great height, the base of the skull is broken, not by counter-fracture, but in consequence of the violence with which the spinal column, re- presenting the whole weight of the body, impinges on the condyles of the occipital bone. In Guy''s Hospital Reports (3rd Series, vol. v.) the case is mentioned by Mr. Bryant of a labouring man, aged thirty-six, who in falling from a scaffolding pitched on his head: he was taken up perfectly unconscious, and brought to the hospital, where he died in a few seconds after admission. Upon examining the body after death, it was clear that the weight of the body, as conveyed through the spine, had com- pletely driven the spinal column into the skull, the base for about an inch round the foramen magnum being detached and pressed inwards on the brain. This case is one which would formerly have been regarded as illustrative of fracture by co7itre-coup. If the skull is driven forcibly against a hard unyielding body, and a fracture occurs in that part which is last struck, this is no counter-fracture, but inust be ranked as a direct fracture. Most of the cases which have been considered as exam- ples of counter-fracture, are in reality examples of simple direct fracture. The writer has never seen an instance of true counter-fracture, and the onlv approximation to this accident he has ever witnessed was in a case of fracture of the orbital process of the frontal bone, in which a piece was completely broken out, and where there was no connection whatever between this and any other fracture : there can be no doubt that this arose from the general concussion of the skull. The case is pub- lished in the Medical Gazette for June 1838. {Sec a case hy Humphry, loc. cit.) Mr. Guthrie collected from the writings of the older surgeons a vast mass of supposed cases of fracture by contre-coup, but he sums up his obser- HEAD, INJURIES OF TPIE. vations on the subject in the following words:— In spite of these great authorities, modern sur- geons seem to have repudiated the idea of counter- fracture, as of one parietal or temporal bone caused by a blow on the opposite side; and, what- ever may have happened formerly, there is so little proof of such occurrence having taken place of late years, that the accident is generally altogether un- noticed by writers on injury of the head." (Guthrie, loc. cit.) Symptoms of fracture of the shill. — There are no pliysiological signs positively indicative of liacture of the skull. The symptoms which so ficquently attend a fracture are obviously dependent on injury to the brain resultin-^ in con- cussion, compression, contusion, and laceration of tins organ. They may all exist without fracture and m most extensive fractures are often altogether absent. Even m fiactures of the base of the skull symptoms of injury to the braiu are often exceed- ingly obscure, or are altogether absent ; and, e con- trario, cases of simple fracture of the skull may be attended with alarming symptoms of cerebral mischief from the commencement. Fractures which occur m civil life, and which arise from falls or the application of enormous violence, are often more fatal than those which occur in military practice, the effects of which, however severe, are'in a great number of cases limited to the part injured. This observation applies most forcibly to fractures result- ing from gunshot wounds, which often produce great local comminution of bone. The treatment of frac- tures of the skull is consequently more successful in military practice than in the surgery of civil life. In considering, therefore, the simple signs of fracture, we come to the conclusion that no reliance 13 to be placed on the physiological symptoms which usually attend a fracture of the skull. But we are led to this important practical deduction, derived from repeated observations,—first, that although an extensive fracture may exist with very ' j few symptoms, yet where synnptoms, however mild, of injured brain attend the infliction of unusuali violence to the skull, and more especially if such.| symptoms persist for a lengthened period, we may reasonably suspect the existence of fracture. We cannot always detect a fracture by simple in- spection of the skull in the absence of a wound of the scalp, for the inequalities which are visible may all depend on natural formation, or on the eflu'sion and coagulation of blood : of course it may happen that the mischief is so great that no doubt can exist as to the nature of the case from the great deformity of the skull, but such cases are necessarily speedily fatal. Simple ocular inspection is never- theless not to be neglected, for, aided by careful manipulation, it may lead us to the seat of a frac- ture of great importance. The surgeon therefore stands with a good light thrown upon the patient's head, previously shaved, and observes an inequality, say, for example, in the temporal region: he presses the part firmly with his fingers, and the patient gives indications of unusual sensibility: he is induced to cut down upon the bone, and he at once detects a fracture, probably traversing the groove of the spinous arterj'. In many fractures, liowever, he is obliged to depend in his diagnosis upon his fingers rather than liis sense of sight, and often both will fail him. In comminuted frac- tures crepitation is sometimes felt if the finger is lightly pressed over tlie damaged scalp; but all manipulation should be conducted with great care and tenderness, and in the absence of symptoms of damaged brain it is unnecessary to be over-solicitons on the subject. Emphysema in the fronbd, or even in the mastoid region, ni.iy be detected with the finger, and is a sign of fracture into the frontal sinus or into the mastoid cells. These remarks apply especially to simple frac- tures of the vault. Where there is a scalp wound there is generally no difficulty in detecting a frac- ture, unless it be a simple capillary fissure, which sometimes eludes our sight; it may be necessary, even with tlie bone exposed to view, to scrape the pericranium to detect a fracture. Wc do not advise