507 DISLOCATION. Dislocations of the lower jaw are attended with a great deal of pain, which may be imputed to the pressure produced by the condyles on some of the branches of the third division of the fifth nerve, and to the tension to which its inferior dental branch is subjected. The mouth is wide open, and cannot be shut. It is more open in recent dislocations than in those which have continued for some time. An empty space is felt before the ear, in the natural situation of the condyles. The coronoid process forms under the cheek-bone a prominence, which may be felt through the cheek or from within the mouth. [When an attempt is made to close the mouth, the coronoid process comes in contact with the lower margin of the malar bone, close to its junction with the superior maxilla, and further approximation is thus effec- tually prevented. M. Ndlaton considers the con- tact of these two points of bone to be an indis- pensable condition of true dislocation, that is to say, of a permanent displacement, and that without it, the reduction would take place almost sponta- neously. Hence he thinks this accident will ne- cessarily be rare, because in all subjects the coro- noid process is not of sufficient length to come in contact with the malar tuberosity. In children, for instance, in whom this process is very short, and in old persons, in whom it is directed obliquely backwards, the accident is almost unknown. (See Ekm. de Pathol. Cldr. t. ii. p. 313.)] The cheeks are flattened by the lengthening of the masseter and buccinator muscles. The saliva flows in large quantities from the mouth, the secretion of which fluid is greatly increased by the irritation of the parotid gland. The arch, formed by the teeth of the lower jaw, is situated more forward than that formed by the teeth of the upper jaw, and the axis of the teeth is directed obliquely forwards instead of vertically upwards. During the first few days after the accident, the patient cannot speak, and, according to Boyer, he cannot swallow. When only one condyle is dislocated, the mouth is dis- torted, and turned towards the opposite side, while the fellow-teeth of the jaws do not correspond. However, Mr. Hey asserts, that frequently the position of the chin is not perceptibly altered. {Practical Ohs. p. 322.) The mouth cannot be shut; but it is not so widely open as in the com- plete luxation. (Sir A. Cuoper, On Dislocations, p. 392.) When a dislocated jaw has remained unreduced for several days or weeks, the symptoms are not so well marked. In such instances, the chin becomes gradually approximated to the upper jaw ; the patient recovers by degrees the faculty of speaking and swallowing ; but he stammers, and the saliva dribbles from his mouth. The suff'eriMgs induced by a dislocated jaw, it is said, may even prove fatal, if the case continue unrectificd ; but we are not to believe Hippocrates when he positively declares the accident mortal, if not reduced before the tenth day. Indeed, Sir Astley Cooper, in noticing the severity of the pain, assures us that he has never seen any dangerous effect produced ; on the contrary, that in time the jaw becomes more closed, and a considerable degree of its mo- tion is restored. {On Dislocalions, p. 389.) Dislocations of the lower jaw may be reduced in the following manner : —The surgeon is first to wrap some linen round his thumbs, to keep them from being hurt by the patient's teeth, and then introduce them into the mouth, as far as possible along the grinding teeth. At the same time he is to place his fingers under the chin and base of the jaw ; and while he depresses the molares with his thumbs, he raises the chin with his fingers, by which means the condyles become disengaged from their situation under the zygomas ; at which instant the muscles draw the condyles so rapidly back into the articular cavities again, that the sur- geon's thumbs might sometimes be hurt, did he not immediately move them outward between the cheek and the jaw. The ancients used to place between the grinding teeth two pieces of stick ; and while they used them as levers to depress the back part of the bone, they raised the chin by means of a bandage. The late Mr. Fox, the dentist, had a patient, whose jaw had been dislocated on both sides, in the extraction of a tooth: the reduction was first effected on one side, by placing a piece of wood, a foot long, upon the grinders, and then raising the part of it that was held in the hand. Mr. Fox next reduced the other condyle in the same manner. Sir Astley Cooper, in reducing a complete luxation of the lower jaw, prefers putting the patient in the re- cumbent postm'e, introducing two corks behind the molar teeth, and then elevating the chin. {On Dislocations, p. 391.) When only one condyle is dislocated, whatever method of reduction be followed, it need only be applied to the side affected. The reduction having been accomplished, a fresh displacement is to be prevented by applying a four- tailed bandage, as recommended for fracture of the jaw. For a few days, the patient should avoid all food requiring much mastication. [M. Ndlaton does not consider it necessary to elevate the chin; on the contrary, he directs the patient to open his mouth as widely as possible ; the sole indications, according to him, being, first to disengage the coronoid process from the malar borie, and then to press it backwards, when the action of the muscles will accomplish the rest. In a case in which repeated attempts at reduction had been made by other surgeons without success, M. Nelaton proceeded in the following manner. He ordered the patient (a female) to open her month as much as piossihle, imd while she executed this move- ment, he placed his two thumbs on the coronoid processes, and wittwut even embracing the jaw or taking any other point of support, a simple pressure in the backward direction caused the condyles to return suddenly into their cavities; the reduction was complete, and all the symptoms disappeared. Two other cases of the successful application of this process are recorded by M. Nelaton. The pres- sure may bo made either from within the mouth or from without through the cheek; and the coronoid process should be pushed downwards and backwards at the same time that the patient opens his mouth. In ordinary cases, a light pres- sure is sufficient, but if more force is required the head may be supported by an assistant, or a band looped at each end may be passed around it in which the operator can engage his fingers, while the thmnb is brought to bear upon the coronoid pro- cess. (See Duhlin Quart, Jour. vol. x. p. 114,1850.) An interesting account of the dissection of a rcnuirkable case of congenital dislocation of the lower jaw has been given by Mr. R. W. Smith {On Fractures and Dislocations, p. 273)].