720 _ FRACTURE impossibility of feeling the glenoid cavity, are suf- ficient to enable us to distinguish this injury from luxation." (Op. cit. p. 188.) This author describes one very singular case, in which the head of the bone was found to be completely reversed in the articulation, so that its fractured surface was di rected towards the glenoid cavity, and the caitila ginous articulating surface thrown towards the shaft, and driven to a considerable distance into the cancellated tissue between the tubercles (p. 194). M. Nelaton refers to two similar cases, (See Elem. de Pathol. Chir. t. i. p. 736.) In the intracapsular fracture, accompanied with impaction, the fragments are retained in so firm and continuous contact with each other, that di rect osseous union can take place without much difficulty. But in the non-impacted variety the superior fragment is cut off from all connection with the surroiiiiding tissues, and is in danger of perishing for want of nutrition, and acting as a foreign body in the articulation. In some, though fortunately very rare instances, this has been found to occur, and the head of the bone has been elimi- nated from the joint by suppuration. Notwithstanding, however, these unfavourable circumstances, even where there is no impaction, osseous consolidation may still be accomplished. But it is highly probable, that in the cases in which this fortunate result has occurred, the vas- cular communication between the fragments has not been entirely cut ofi', but that they have re niained partially connected together by the attach- ment of the capsular ligament, the vascular supply derived from which proves adequate to the pre- servation of the vitality of the head of the bone, although it may not be sufficient to enable it to take a very active part in the process of osseous union. (R. W. Smith, op. cit. p. 190.) In all cases, indeed, whether impacted or not, the repara tion of the injury is chiefly accomplished by the lower fragment, which throws out bony matter in great profusion, so as to incase, as it were, the superior fragment. (See also A, Cooper, On Dis- locations, p. 428.) Treatment of fractures of the anatomical nech of the humerus.—In the non-impacted intracapsular fracture no coaptation is required, since the parts remain in contact, and are usually in their natural situation or nearly so. The object of the treat- ment, therefore, is merely to keep the parts at rest as completely as possible while union is going on, and for this purpose all that is necessary in most cases is to bandage the arm to the side and sup- port the forearm in a sling. The pad in the a-^cilla should not be used, since by throwing outwards the shaft of the bone it would tend to separate the fragment.'!, and so to prevent osseous union, which can in this case scarcely be expected to take place unless the surfaces are maintained in close and continuous apposition. The impacted intracapsular fracture always unites with a certain amount of deformity, which it would be imprudent to attempt to obviate, for even if we succeeded, we should thus niatcrialiy diminish the chance of osseous consolidation. It is sufficient, therefore, to keep the arm at rest in the way above recommended, but to inform the patient at tlic same time, that a certain degree of deformity and of impairment of the motions of the joint will be a pennanent result of the injury. W. Smith, op. cit. p. 11)1.) Mr. Smith gives a drawing of a bone in which this fracture bad occurred, and which he had an opportunity of examining some years after the accident. Firm union has taken place ; the head of the bone is deeply sunk into the shaft, the upper extremity of which, witli the tuberosities, appears as if bent outwards. In the museum of St. Mary's Hospital is a humerus which is almost identical in appear- ance with this drawing. In all these cases, passive motion should be em- ployed as soon as the imion has become firm.] 3. [Fracture of the greater tuberosity, by which that process is detached from the rest of the bone, occasionally happens. In this injury the pieces are widely separated, the tuberosity being drawn backwards by the muscles attached to it, and the shaft of the bone forwards and inwards by the pectoralis major and subscapularis. The result is a great increase in the breadth of the shoulder from before backwards, while its rotundity is at the same time diminished, and the acromion be- comes more prominent than natural. On a closer examination, two prominences may be distinguished, separated by an intervening depression. The an- terior of these, situated beneath the coracoid pro- cess, belongs to the head of the bone ; it will there- fore be felt to move when the aim is rotated at the elbow. The posterior is the detached tuberosity, and does not follow any movement communicated to the shaft of the bone. Crepitus may perhaps be produced when the shoulder is compressed so as to bring the two portions of bone into contact. The patient cannot raise his arm by his own efforts beyond the horizontal line ; it is usually separated from the side, but can be approximated to it with- out diflicult}'. When the head of the humerus is situated he- 7ieathihe coracoid process, it is questionable whether the accident might not with greater proprietj' be considered as a dislocation of the shoulder-joint complicated with fracture of the tuberosity. (See DiSLOCATiONS,ante, p. 520.) The tuberosity may, however, doubtless be broken off without so great a displacement of the rest of the bone as has been ere assigned to it, in accordance with the descrip- tion given by Mr. Smith. The treatnient consists in fixing the shoulder, and drawing backwards the shaft of the bone by the figure of 8 bandage, and binding the arm to the side. (See R. W. Smith, On Dislocations, ^-c, 176, and also A, Cooper, p. 435.) [Fracture of the nech of the htmerus with dis- location of the head of the bone. — This accident, according to Sir A. Cooper, is generally caused by \ violent fall on the shoulder. By the first im- pression of the .accident the os humeri is dislocated, and by a second the neck of the lone is broken, and the head is detached and lodges in the a.xilla. The symptoms bear some resemblance to those of the simple dislocation downwards, inasmuch as the head of the bone may be felt in the axilla when the arm is raised ; but it cannot, as in dislocation, he made to move when the arm is rotated at the Ibow. There is also less hollow below the acro- mion, because the broken extremity of the shaft of the bone quits the head and becomes lodged ni the glenoid cavity of the scapula. An indistinct crepitus may be produced by the friction of these latter parts against each other. The injured arm