DISLOCATION. 558 Eversion €ind abduction seem to be the charac- teristics of the dislocation on the tuberosit}-; inver- sion and adduction of the dislocation on the spine of the ischium.] [4. Dislocation into tJie perinetim.—Three cases of this reniarlcable displacement have been recorded. One is reported by Professor Parker, in the Neiv York Med. Gaz. for 1841. The patient, a;t. 35, was at work under the bottom of a canal boat, which was supported on props ; he was standing with his body bent forwards, and his feet far astride, when the props gave way, and the boat fell, forcing him down by the side of a piece of timber, over which he was standing, in such a manner that the left thigh was placed between it and the bottom of the boat. On being extricated, the left limb was found standing at a right angle with the trunk, the toes were turned a little in- ward, the natural form of the nates lost, and the head of the bone distinctly felt in rotation in the perineum behind the scrotum, and near the bulb of the urethra. Extension was made downwards and outwards, accompanied by moderate rotation, and in this way the head of the bone was made to surmount the ramus of the ischium, and to pass into the foramen ovale. From this position it was replaced in the acetabulum, by carrying the luxated limb strongly across the sound one. The patient soon recovered the use of the joint. Another case is reported by Professor Pope, of the St. Louis University, in the St. Louis Medical and Surgical Journal for July, 1850. A man, ast. 40, was engaged in excavating earth, some of which unexpectedly slipped and fell upon his back, catching him in a bent position, with his legs stretched widely asunder. When examined, the left thigh was found thrown quite to a right angle vvith the body, and somewhat forward. The normal site of the great trochanter offered a cavity in which the fist could easily be placed, while the head of the bone was both seen and felt below the skin, and raising the raphd of the perineum. On rotation, which was dif- ficult and caused intense suffering, the move- ments of the caput femoris were distinctly visible. The patient was unable to void his urine, no doubt in consequence of the pressure of the head of the bone upon the urethra. Extension was made with the pulleys transversely to the axis of the body; and after a short time the bone glided into its socket with an audible snap. (See N. Y. Journ. of Med., March, 1052, p. 198.) A third instance, which was noticed by M. d'Amblard in 1821, is mentioned by M. Mai- gaigne; the head of the femur was prominent in the perineum, opposite the junction of the rami of the pubes and ischium. The limb, though flexed, appeared elongated, and the foot was pointed outwards. There was retention of urine, and grerxt difficulty in the introduction of a catheter. In this case, as in that first mentioned, the head of the bone was first brought into the foramen ovale, and from tlience replaced, by a second effort, into the acetabuhim. (See Trailc dcs Fract. 4'C. t. ii. p. 876.) The direction of the displacing force in these cases appears to be similar to that which pro- duces dislocation into the foramen ovale; but the violence being probably greater than usual, the head of the bono is forced onwards, past the fora- men ovale, and over the rami of the ischium and pubes, towards the perineum.] 5. Dislocation forwards and doumviards upon the ohturalor foramen —[Tsckio-pubic, Malgaigne, Nelaton.']—This is next in frequency to the dis- location backwards and upwards. The accident is facilitated by the great extent to which the abduction of the thigh can be carried, and by the weakness of the orbicular ligament in this direction. Accordmg to Sir A. Cooper, "The dislocation into the foramen ovale is generally caused by a heavy weight falling upon the pelvis whilst the back is bent forwards, and the thighs are separated from each other. The ligamentum teres and the lower part of the cap- sular ligament are torn through, and the head of the bone becomes placed in the anterior and inner part of the thigh, upon the obturator ex- ternus muscle. It has been erroneouslj' supposed that the ligamentum teres is not torn through in this dislocation, because in the dead body, when the capsular ligament is divided, and in the living body, in certain cases of relaxation, the head of the bone can be drawn over the lower edge of the acetabulum without tearing the ligamentum teres. But this ligament is of necessity torn through in the ordinary dislocation from violence." The symptoms are as follow:—"The limb is two inches longer than the other. The head of the bone can be felt by pressure of the hand upon the inner and upper part of the thigh towards the perineum, but only in very thin persons. The trochanter major is less prominent than on the opposite side. The body is bent forwards b}- the tension of the psoas and iliacus internus muscles. The knee is considerably advanced if the bodj^ be erect; it is widely separated from the other, and cannot, without great difficulty, be brought near the axis of the body so as to touch the other knee, in consequence of the extension of the glutei and pyriformis muscles. The foot, though widely sepa- rated from the other, is generally neither turned outwards nor inwards, although I have seen it varying a little in this respect in different in- stances; but the position of the foot does not in this case mark the accident. The bent position of the bod}', the separated knees, and the increased length of the limb, are the diagnostic symptoms. The position of the bone is below, and a little anterior to the axis of the acetabulum; and a hollow is perceived below Poupart's ligament." {On Dislocations, 4-c. p. 44. ed. 10, 1839.) [A case of simultaneous dislocation of both thighs into the foramen ovale has been recorded liy Dr. Sigonovitz. It occurred in a sailor, who was sit- ting astride a plank, when a wave suddenly forced him up against a cross beam, which struck his back violently, while the plank was still between his legs. Both dislocations were reduced. (From the Preussiclic Medicine Zeilung; see Land. Med. Gkiz. Sept. 29, 1838, p. 31.) On the other hand, external violence may in- cline the trunk laterally upon the two thighs in such a manner as to dislocate them simultaneously, but in opposite directions. (Sec Malgaigne, Traife des Fract. S(c. t. ii. p. 856.) . . In the collection at St. Thomas's Hospital is a preparation of an old dislocation into the foramen ovale, dissected by Sir A. Cooper : "The head of the thigh-bone was found resting m the foramen