AMAUROSIS. 25 lie nrgiies that the exact limits of the changes termed organic liave not yet been determined. " We apply tiie epithet functional to those diseases which produce no changes recognisable after death. J5iit we cannot infer from these cases that no alteration had existed during life. The state of an organ, necessary to the correct execution of its fuiiction is a living, not a dead condition ; it re- quires, not merely a certain organisation as we find after death, but a supply of healthy blood in a certain quantity, a natural state of nervous influ- ence and sympathj', and perhaps other circum- stances, not clearly understood. If all these con- ditions are combined, can we consider it possible, that the function should be disordered, or inter- rupted .^^ If one or more should be altered, or lyanting, can the disease be properly regarded as simply functional ? Vascular congestion is an ob- vious deviation from the normal state of a part. If the retina, or any other organ, be said to be functionally disordered when its vessels appear twice as numerous and large as in the normal c^ndition, the expression must be employed too loosely to convey any clear information." [On Diseases of ihe Eye, ed. 3, p. 508.) It seems to Dr. Mackenzie, that amaurosis always results from an organic cause. The notion of a ^!iwc//onai amaurosis, he conceives, must have arisen irom the facts, that this disease is sometimes sym- pathetic, or arises in consequence of derangement of some remote organ ; and that it is occasionally sudden in its attack, and, on the other hand, in- stantaneous in its departure. In sympathetic amau- rosis. Dr. Mackenzie considers it as indisputable, that the loss of sight must depend on some organic change in the optic apparatus. Take, for example (says he), the amaurosis which arises from the presence of worms in the bowels. This result is only occasional ; the brain of perhaps not more than one out of a hundred affected with worms, is so ."susceptible of disease, that the irritation com- municated to it from the bowels, through the great sympathetic nerve, is sufficient to excite it to that morbid condition which causes dilatation of the pupils and loss of vision ; but that the amaurosis, in these cases, is the consequence of any thing else than a certain morbid condition of the optic appa- ratus, seems to Dr. Mackenzie a proposition which scarcely deserves a serious refutation. Neither docs he admit, when amaurosis occurs suddenly as a disease of relation, that it is independent of organic derangement in the optic apparatus, how- ever indubitable it mny be, that the first link in the chain of causes has existed in some remote part of the body. (0« Diseases of the Eye, ed. 4, p. 1019.) After all, however, with the qualifi- cations and partictdars annexed by Mr. Travers to his definition of the variaticsof functional amau- rosis, I see a perfect agreement between him and Mr. Lawrence in the pathological view of the sub- ject : and the only question relates to the propriety of applying the term functional to particular forms of amaurosis. The least objectionable divisi(m9 of the amauroses seem to the latter surgeon to be three, according as the disease proceeds from ajfec- iinii of the sensorium, or of the optic nerve, or of the retina ; though ho acknowledges, that the evi- dence during life leaves us sometimes in doubt, whether the case ought to bo referred to one or another of these heads. Amaurosis (says he) may be induced by causes acting immediately on the nervous apparatus of the eye, such as exces- sive exertion of the organ, or a stroke of lightning ; it may arise secondarily from sympathy between the nervous structure of the eye and some other previously affected organ, as from irritation of the stomach, or of the nerve of the fifth pair; or it may be a symptom of affection of the sensorium, more or less general. Hence, the distinction of the complaint into idiopathic, sympathetic, and symptomatic, (See Lawrence on fJis. of the Eye, ed. 3, p. 510.) SywPTOMs OP Amaukosis. One may consider as the only really inseparable symptom of amaurosis, that weakness of sight (Amblyopia), or that complete blindness, in which neither with the unassisted nor assisted eye the least defect can be perceived in the structure and shape of the affected organ. But how rarely this essential sjiciptom is met with'alone, and how fre- quently it is obscured by some other defect in the structure and form of the eye, is proved by daily experience. Imperfect amaurosis, besides being characterised by considerable weakness of sight approaching to actual blindness, is mostly complicated with other morbid derangements of the visual function. Amongst the most important of these is a defective inter- rupted vision. {Visus i7itcrruptus.) For instance, when the patient is reading, single syllables, words, or lines cannot be seen, unless the eye be first directed to them by a movement of the whole head, and greater or lesser portions of other objects are in the same manner indistinguishable. Some- times amaurotic patients can see orly the upper or lower, or the left or the right half, of objects. {Visus dimidiatus; Amaicrosis dimidiata; Hemi- opia; Hemiopsia) Or, when the patient shuts one eye, he can only distinguish the halves of objects ; but, if he open both eyes, he sees every- thing in its natural form. In this case one eye is sound, and only some fibres of the nerve of sight are injured in the other. (See Schmucker's Ver- mischte Chir. Schrift. b. ii. p. 12.) In some not very uncommon cases of imperfect amaurosis, the patient cannot see an object unless it be held in a particular direction before the eye; but, when the eye or head is moved in the least, he loses all view of the thing, and cannot easily get sight of it again. {Beer, Lehre von den Aygen- krankheiten,h.\\. ^. A-H.) Patients who may be said to be entirely blind, sometimes have a small part of the retina which is still susceptible of the impression of light, and is usually situated towards one side of the eye. This obliquity of sight was long ago pointed out by the late Mr. Iley, n% com- mon m the present disease. (See Med. Ohs. and Inquiries, vol. v.) Richter mentions, that in one man, who was, in other respects, entirely bereft of vision, this sensible point of the retina was situated obbquely over the nose, and so small, that it was always a considerable time before its situation could be discovered : he adds, that it was so sensible, as not only to discern the light, but even the spire of a distant steeple. The centre of the eye seems lo he first and most seriously affected. Hence, the generality of patients, in the early stage of iniper- Icct amaurosis, see objects which are laterally situated better than such as are inmiediatiOy before them. (^Anfangsgr. der Wumlarxn. b. iii. kap. 14.)