75i A second fracture in tlie same patella, or ratlier— according to the observation of most surgeons—a rupture of the ligamentous union, is by no means a rare occurrence ; it has been known to happen for the third and even for the fourth time in tlie same limb. The second injury, however, is not always rupture of the ligament, though probably this is most frequent; Mr. Erichsen states that in all the cases which he has seen, it has been a real fracture and not a rupture of the ligament—the second fracture having been always situated just above the line of the original one. It has also been repeatedly noticed that persons who have broken one patella will, at some subse- quent period, suffer from a similar injury on the opposite side. The weakness of the injured limb probably induces the patient to rely more for sup- port on the sound limb, and especially so in any sudden emergency, till at last, during some effort more violent than usual, this in its turn snaps across.] A very singular case is mentioned by Sir A. Cooper, where a patella, which had been formerly broken, and united by ligament, was again divided into two portions, in consequence of the destruction of the uniting medium by ulceration. (Vol. cit. p 100.) A case is also on record where the ligament- ous uniting substance was so incorporated with the skin that, when the latter happened to be lacerated, the knee-joint was laid open, and amputation be- came necessary. (C. Bell, Op. Surgery, vol. ii. p. 204.) Treatment.—The chief indications are to overcome the action of the extensor muscles of the leg, and to keep the fragments as near each other as pos- sible, partly by a judicious position of the limb, and partly by mechanical means. The first indica- tion is fulfilled by relaxing the abovementioned muscles : 1st, by extending the leg ; ■2ndly, by bending the thigh on the pelvis, or, in other words, raising the femur so that the distance between the knee and anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, and brim of the acetabulum, may be as little as possible ; which object, however, will also re- quire the body to be raised, and the pelvis some- what inclined forwards, so that the rectus may be perfectly relaxed. In short, as Richter long ago advised, the patient should be almost in a sitting posture, the trnnk forming a right angle witli the thigh. {Bihl. CIdr. b. vi, p. 611. Giittingen, 1782.) 3rdly, the muscles are to be compressed with a roller. The second indication, or that of placing and maintaining the fragments in contact, or as nearly so as circumstances will allow, is in a great measure already answered by the above-recom- mended position of the limb and trunk ; but it is not perfectly fulfilled unless the upper portion of the bone be also pressed towards the lower frag- ment, and mechanically held in this situation by the pressure of an apparatus or bandage. And, in pushing the upper fragment towards the lower one, the surgeon should always be careful that the skin be not depressed and pinched between them. After putting the patient to bed upon a mat- tress, and in tlie desirable posture, with the limb confined, supported, and raised, as above directed, upon a well-padded hollow splint, Sir A. Cooper npplics at first no b:nidage to the knee, but covers It with hnen wet with a lotion, composed of lifi. Plumbi acet. dilut. § v, and spir. vin. ^ j. If, on FRACTURE, the succeeding day or two, there be much tension, or ecchymosis, leeches should be applied, and the lotion continued ; but the employment of a band- age is not to commence until the tension has sub- sided ; for Sir A. Cooper assures us that he has seen the greatest suffering, and such swelling as threatened gangrene, produced in these cases by the too early use of a roller. Instead of a circular bandage, placed above and below the broken bone, and drawn together with tane, &c. so as to bring the upper fragment towards' the lower one, this experienced surgeon prefers the following method:—A leathern strap is buckled round the thigh, above the broken and elevated portion of bone, and from this circular piece of leather another strap passes under the middle of the foot' the leg being extended and the foot considerably raised. This strap is brought up to each side of the patella, and buckled to the leathern baud already applied to the lower part of the thigh. It may also be fastened to the foot, or any part of the leg, with tapes. The limb is to be confined in this position five weeks if the patient be an adult, and six if advanced in years. Then a slight passive motion is to be begun, and to be gently increased, from day to day, until the flexion of the knee is complete. {Suryical Essays, part ii. p. 91.) But, although the impropriety of making any constric- tion of the knee with a bandage, while the skin is swelled and inflamed, must be obvious, the sur- geon ought to be apprised that such swelling and inflammation ought not to occasion the least "delay in placing the limb in the right posture, and press- ing the upper fragment towards the lower one. Mohrenheim ascribes the lameness formerly so frequent after this fracture, partly to the custom of not thinking of bringing the pieces of bone together until the swelling had subsided, and partly to the fashion of bending the joint too soon, with the view of preserving its motion. But, says he, nothing can be clearer than that it is most advantageous to attend to the union of the fracture first, and to the flexibility of the joint afterwards. (Bcohaditim- gen, b. ii. 8vo. 1783.) Boyer has likewise re- marked that the uniting substance is apt to yield and become lengthened by bending the knee' too early, and he therefore never allows this motion to be performed before the end of two months. When the ligamentous substance is long, and the patient very slow in regaining the use of the extensor muscles, he should sit every day on a table and en- deavour to bring them into action ; and ns this increases, a weight may be afiixed to the foot, as Hunter, Sheldon, &c, recommend. Nothing keeps the leg more surely extended than a long, broad, excavated splint, with a suitable pad applied to the posterior part of the thigh and leg, and fixed there with a roller, while the thigh itself is to be bent by raising the whole limb from the heel to the top of the tliigii, with pillows, which, of course, must form a gradual ascent from the tuberosity of the ischium to the foot. [M. Malgaigne objects to the various methods which have been recommended for the purpose of approximating the fragments, and which act by circular compression of the limb, not only on ac- count of their inefliciency, but because they depress the tendon of the extensor muscles on the one, side, and the iigamenlum patellic on the other, in such a manner as to tilt the fVagincnts forward, and to separate the fractured surfaces in front.