HYDROPHTHALMIA, rence is unable to state whether this dropsy of the 1067 aqueous humour from scrofulous corneitis is ever removed. {On Bis. of Eye, p. 655.) Perhaps, so far as our knowledge yet extends, it is impossible to say, whether the changes of tlie cornea are, in the present disease, to be regarded as the cause, or the elFect, of the increased quantity of the aqueous humour, or, whether, as seems to me most probable, both phenomena are only effects of one and the same cause. The examples, somewhat repugnant to tliis idea, are those referred to by Beer, as symptomatic of other dropsical affections. On the other hand, Mr. Wardrop has never seen a preternatural collection of the aqueous humour, without its being accompanied with disease of the coats of the eye. (Vol. cit, p. 20.) In hydrophthalmia, the prognosis is generally rmfavourable; and, when the sight is nearly or quite lost, scarcely any hope can be entertained, either of restoring vision, or preserving the shape of the eye. Yet, according to Beer, things are not al- ways quite so unpromising in the preceding form of the disease, especially when the surgeon is con- sulted in time, and the patient's constitution is not exceedingly impaired. He had never seen any instance in which the eye spontaneously burst; on the contrary, when the habit was decidedly bad, and the treatment ineffectual, the disease became gradually conjoined with the second species of dropsy of the eye, and terminated in a frightful disfigurement of the whole organ, and death. On dissection, the innermost textures of the part were found spoiled and disorganised, and sometimes even the orbit itself carious. (Vol. cit. p. 619.) _ With respect to the treatment. Beer thinks, that this must depend very much upon the nature of the primary disease to which the dropsical affection is ascribable. He has known great benefit some- times produced by the chloride of mercury, combined with digitalis, and a drink containing bitartrate of potash, and borax. This practice is manifestly connected with the notion, that this affection of the eye may depend upon, the same causes as dropsy in general; a view at present re- nounced. Now, as a modern writer remarks, we do not " expect any material benefit from the adoption of any plan of treatment, which does not include the evacuation of a certain part of the augmented con- tents of the globe, or some other surgical proceeding, having for its object the production of a diminished plenitude of the eyeball." (See Middlemore,On Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 476.) But, when the disease has made considerable progress, and vision is either weak, or nearly lost, while the sclerotica near the cornea is not much discoloured, and there are no appearances of a varicose affection of the blood- vessels of the organ, Beer recommends making a puncture with a small lancet, in the lowest part of the cornea, half a line from the sclerotica, so as to discharge the aqueous humour. The anterior chamber is then to be kept empty for several days, or weeks, if possible, by reopening the small wound every day with the point of the lancet. (See also Richtefs Anfanrjsgr. b. iii. p. 403.) After the operation, the eye is to be dressed in the same way as after the extraction of a cataract. (See Cata- ract.) Previously to paracentesis, Beer has often Been every general and local means perfectly use- less, but highly beneficial as soon as that operation had been practised. Even when the paracentesis fails in bringing about a permanent cure, itmay still be resorted to as a palliative with great advantage, and be often beneficially repeated, if care be taken not to make the puncture too large. However when the blood-vessels are generally varicose and the constitution very bad, such operation is apt to excite violent inflammation, suppuration, and even sloughing of the organ, attended with imminent danger to the patient's life. (Beer, vol cit n 620, 622.) ■ With regard to the second species of hydroph- thalmia, or that depending upon a preternatural accumulation of the vitreous humour. Beer states, that, in this case, it is chiefly the posterior part of the eyeball which is enlarged, so that the whole organ acquires a conical shape, in which the cornea very much participates. The latter membrane remains unaltered in regard to its diameter; but it is more 'convex than natural, and its transparency is perfect. It is observed by Mr. Wardrop (0?i the Morbid Anatomy of tlie. Eye, vol. ii. p. 126), that an increase in the quantity of the vitreous humour happens not unfrequently in staphyloma, in which disease, he says, the enlargement of the eyeball will generally be found to arise more from an increase in the quantity of the vitreous, than of the aqueous humour. One character of staphyloma is often absent in hydrophthalmia; I mean, opacity of the cornea. In the case which consists in an immo- derate collection of the aqueous humour, the ante- rior chamber is always enlarged; on the contrary, in the present form of the disease, that cavity is manifestly lessened, for the motionless iris is gradu- ally forced so much towards the cornea, that at length the chamber in question almost completely disappears. However, the colour of the iris under- goes no change, and the pupil is always rather di- minutive. Around the cornea, the sclerotica is rendered bluish by distention, with a somewhat smutty tinge. In the early stage, the patient is attected with shortsightedness, myopia; but his power of vision is always seriously diminished, and at last, IS so totally destroyed, that not a ray of light can be perceived. The motions of the globe of the eye and eyelids are lessened, or impeded, at a still earlier period than in the first species of hvdroph- thalmia.and to the touch, the organ seems'like an egg-shaped stone. The very commencement of the disease is attended with pain, which daily becomes more and more severe, and, at length, is not con- fined to the eye and its vicinity, but affects all the side of the head, the teeth, and neck, beino- some- times so violent as almost to bereave the patient of his senses, who urgently begs the surgeon to punc- ture the eye, or even is driven by desperation to do It himself, as Beer once knew happen. Even while the pain is less afflicting, the patient is de- prived of his sleep and appetite. {Beer vol cit P.C23.) Though an increase in the quantity of the vitreous or aqueous humour hasgenerallv been treated of as a distinct disease, and denominated hydrophthalmia, Mr. Wardrop has never seen a dropsy of the eye, without an accompanying disease of the sclerotic coat, or cornea. {Morbid Anatomy qfthcEye,yo\. ii. p. 126.) Beer's opinion is, that when the disease has made such progress that not a ray of light can be discerned, and the pain in the eye and head is so violent, by day and night, that the sleep, appetite, and even the senses arc lost • it IS fortunate, if only the most perilous symptoms can be obviated by palliative treatment- for the preservation of a good-shaped eye is then quite