DISLOCATION. 511 " He complained of a sliglit tenderness over the superior cervical region, which was a little painful upon pressure, and presented a very inconsiderable tumefaction. '.' The conclusion come to was, that either chronic inflammation or caries affected the atloido-axal ar- ticulation. Under this impression, leeches were applied every two days for three weeks, without any other benefit than the lessening of the tender- ness. By means of caustic potash, an issue was maintained over the point for nearly four months but rotation of the head was still impracticable. " After the drying np of the issues, or in about six months from the receipt of the injury, he had an attack of pleui-is)'-, for which it was necessary to resort to very active depletion. " When he had become convalescent from the pleuiisj', symptoms of anasarca were manifested under which he ultimately sunk, eleven month after the receipt of the injury. " Sensation and motion, with the exception 1 have named, were in no degree impaired, and about this there could be no fallacy ; for he was accus- tomed to feed himself while lying on his back, and to walk to the water-closet daily. During the last three months of his life, he had complained of some difficulty in swallowing, and his voice was observed to be rather thick; but, upon looking into the throat, there was no obvious cause for these symptoms. "After death the cervical region was examined, and, at first sight, no very particular lesion was evident ; but, upon more carelul examination, it was found that a complete transverse fracture of the atlas had occurred. The anterior moiety of the ring, including the joints of articulation with the occiput, had been carried downwards and forwards in front of the axis, had arrived on the same plane with it, and had become connected to it by perfect bony union. The strength of the transverse liga^ ment, which embraces the neck of the processus dentatus, had been sufficient to retain that organ in its grasp, and, consequentlj^, the latter had been fractured and carried down with it ; and to this circumstance the patient, no doubt, owed his life ; for had the ligament given way, the process would inevitably have lacerated the spinal cord. " The morbid specimen is in the possession of Sir C. Bell. The importance of this case arises from its invalidating the principle, so confidently laid down, that such an injury in this region must necessarily be fatal." [The following case was observed by M. Costes, of Bordeaux:—A boy, at. 15, was struck on the back of the neck, and thrown to the ground, lie experi- enced some pain in moving his neck, and hia head was inclined forwards, but nothing material occurred till four months after the accident, when he was suddenly seized with pain in the right arm and leg, land eight days laterall the limbs became paralysed. '■ He was then taken to the hospital ; a hard tumour ' was felt at the back of the neck, towards the right • side, while the cliin was directed towards the left, land approximated to the sternum. In spite of treatment, he died in a few days. The exami- nation showed that the atlas had been dislocated ifrom the axis forward and towards the left side. iTLe odontoid process had been fractured at its base, and carried forward with the atlas. Its direction was nearly horizontal, and it had become united by bone Avith the body of the axis, The posterior nrch^f the atlas was approximated to the body of the axis, so as to leave between them only a sort of transverse cleft. (Sec Bovzw M(d. Cliir. t.xii. p. 303.)] 3. DislooaUon of the six loiver cervical vertebrce. —[Luxations of the cervical vertebrte below the atlo-axoid articulation are occasionally met with. They may take place at any of the articulations between the six lower cervical vertebrae.] We learn from Mr. Lawrence, that the museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital contains specimens of luxated cervical vertebrae. In one of these, the right inferior articular process of the fifth vertebra is dislocated forwards. The portion of the verte- bral column above the seat of the injury is twisted to the left, and the body of the fifth, having been partially displaced, projects beyond that of the sixth vertebra. This displacement could not have been effected without considerable injury of the fibro- cartilage. The upper and anterior part of the bodies of the sixth and seventh vertebrae has been slightly fractured on the left side. In another case,'the inferior articular processes of the fifth cervical ver- tebra are partially separated from those of the sixth. The bodies of the same bones are partially separated behind. A tliird specimen exhibits a dislocation of the sixth from the seventh cervical vertebra. The inferior articular processes of the sixth are completely dislocated forwards, and its body projects over that of the seventh. Mr. Law- rence has recorded one case, proving that complete dislocation both of the articular processes and body, without fracture, may occur in^the cervical region of the spine. (See Med. C/iir. Trans, vol. xiii. p. 391—394.) A gentleman, attending my lectures, lent me a specimen of a complete dislocation of the middle cervical vertebrae without fracture. The accident befel a person, who was sitting upon an omnibus as it passed rapidly under a gateway, the upper part of which struck against him with im- mense violence. Baron Dupuytren has also recorded an instance of a dislocation of the sixth from the seventh cervical vertebras, without any previous fracture. The patient, a woman fifty-six years old, lived thirty-four hours after the accident. There' was total loss of sensibility in the lower extremities and the rectum, bladder, parietes of the abdomen and all parts below the diaphragm, seemed as it were, dead. Above this point, the upper'ex- tremities were also in a state of incomplete pa- ralysis, with respect both to motion and feeling. Respiration was frequent and laborious; but the speech, senses, motions of the countenance, and intellectual faculties, were not affected, and seemed to belong to another individual. The pulse was ['ull and soft; the tongue dry and brownish- and the skin natural in point of temperature and' exhalation. (Sec Dupuvtrcn, Clin. Chir t \ . .390.) ■ _ [From the records which we now possess of these dislocations, it appears that the upper part of the spine is most frequently displaced foncards upon the lower part. M. Malgaigne, wlio has carefullv investigated the subject, refers to as many as forty- one examples of dislocation forwards, verified bv post-mortem examination, while he could only meet with four in wliicii the vertcl)rre above the point in 'ured had been displaced backwards. The disloca- tion/ojwarrfs may be considered as presenting two varieties ; the bilateral, affecting both articular pro- cesses J and the uiiilaleral, in which only one arti-