81 AMPUTATION. t > resort to amputation through the trochanters as u place of election; having satisfied hiuisell " that the operation by circular incision, if per- formed with due care, on proper principles, may be employed in the lower third of the thigh safely and advantageously." {Ed. MoiUMy Journal, Nov. 1846, p. 225.) Dr. Markoe does not agree with Mr. Syrae, in attributing the formation of the tubular sequestra above alluded to, to inflammation of the medullary membrane, though he admits this as a possible ex- planation. He regards them "as produced by the severing of the nutritious artery of the bone, either by the saw, while it is passing tlirough its bony canal, or by the catlin before it has reached the nutritious foramen. The supply of blood," he observes, " thus cut off from the medullary membrane, can only be restored by the ajiasto- mosis which it has with the vessels of the spongj' portion above. These vessels, however, are con- tained in unyielding canals, and the necessary increase in their calibre can take place but slowly; in the meantime therefore, the small vessels which the medullary membrane sends into the bone are not properly filled, and the death of the bone is produced up to the points where the anastomotic supply is sufficient to save it." (See TV. Y. Jouni, of Med. vol. xvi. 1856, p. 41.) These observations are made by Dr. Markoe with reference to the thigh bone, where, it will be re- membered, the dii'ection of the canal for the nutritious artery is invariably from below upwards, but tlie explanatioa loses much of its value when ■we consider that these sequestra form also in the humerus, in which bone the nutritious artery has, with equal constancy, an exactly opposite direction.] Spasms op the Stump Constitute another afflicting occurrence,, as they put the patient to the greatest agony, tend to cause a protnision of the bone, or sugar-loaf stump, and in some cases extend to the whole body, and ulti- mately prove fatal. But this unfortunate affection, which was rather frequent after amputations per- formed in the ancient manner, is infinitely less so, after the modern improved plans of operating, tying, the vessels, and dressing the wound. When, how- ever, it does occur, the stump must be kept from starting, by binding it down with a broad band, placed across it a little way above the wound. The flesh is to be properly supported with a ban- dage applied from above downwards, and opiates should be liberally exhibited. Op Neuromata after Amputation. Sometimes amputation has been found necessary a second time, in consequence of a morbid pro- tuberance of the nerves of the stump, — a change noticed by Molinelli, Morgagni, Lower, Arne- mann, and Prochaska, and always attended with excruciatiTig paiu and great irritability of the part, and sometimes with retraction of the skin and protrusion of the bone. According to Mr. Liston, neuromata are more frequent after amputation of the arm and forearm than other amputations. The disease seems to him however, to be less common than formerly, which he refers partly to flap amputations having been more extensively adopted, and partly to the method of tying arteries, sn as to include nothing else in the ligature. In the forearm I have never seen a neuroma follow amputation, and yet almost all the operations were circular. Sic Astley Cooper, in his Lectures, relates one instance of such a stump high up the arm, wliere, upon ex- amination of the part near the axilla, a tumor was felt,, which, when touched, made the patient jump as if he had been electrified. In this case, as the bone protruded, amputation at the shoulder was performed. In another example, where a leg-stump was in a painful irritable state from a similar cause. Sir Astley Cooper effectually relieved the patient by removing the diseased end of the posterior tibial nerve. This plan should always be preferred to amputation, when it presents any chance of being efficient. In a thiid instance, amputation was re- peated at the patient's desire, and the nerves were found enlarged, forming a ganglion which partly rested upon the extremity of the bone. Such a degree of irritation had been produced by it, tliat no part of the stump could be touched without ex- citing a kind, of electric shock. In a case that occurred in the Middlesex Hospital, amputation of the thigh was performed a second time, in conse- quence of the first stump being thus diseased. A complete ganglion, or plexus of nerves, was'found closely adhering to the removed portion of bone, having almost the appearance of cartilage. The os femoris was of an nnusally small size, but the linca aspera larger than natural. (See Lancel, vol. i. p. 1)5; vol. iii. p. 192.) In the same hospital, Mr. Mayo also amputated at the hip, on account of the extreme sufferings caused b}- a diseased state of the nerves of a thigh stump. (See Neuroma.) For some observations on the changes which occur in stumps after cicatrization, see Stumps. The follovfing works may be consulted for inform- ation on diseases of tlie bones of Stumps : Bonn, Thesaui-us Ossium Morborum, Amst. 1788; Weid- mann, De Necrosi Ossium, Francof. 1798; Macdonald, De Necrosi ac t'allo, Edinb. 1799 ; the above men- tioned Essays of M. Louis; Leveille, Sur les Mai. des Os aprfes 1'Amputation, M^m de la Soci^te d'Emula- tion, t. i. p. 148 ; Van Hoorn, De iis, quae in partibus menibri, praesertim osseis, amputatione vulneratis, notanda sunt, Lusd. 1803; Ronx, De la Resection des Os Malades, Paris, 1812 ; M^m de Physiologie, &c. par Scarpa, et LcvtilU, Paris, 1804 ; B. Phillips on Inflammation of tlie Medullary Membrane after Am- rutation, Lond. Med. Gaz. 1833-34; G. Langstaff on the Healthy and Morl)id Conditions of Stumps, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. -xvi.; Crookes on a Neuralgic Affection of Stumps, Lond. Med. Gaz. 325. OF PARTICULAR AMPUTATIONS. UPPER EXTREMITY. Amputation of the Fingers. Amputation of the fingers, or parts of them, is performed with one, or with two flaps, or with a circular or an oval incision, and is frequently re- quired, either primarily or secondarily, on account of various accidents and diseases, as comminuted fracture, onychia maligna, necrosis, &c. The opera- tion is most conveniently performed in the articu- lations, though exceptions sometimes occur in which it maybe done elsewhere, and the phalanx divided with the cutting pliers. Thus it occasionally hap- pens that either the distal or the middle pliahuix is torn off, and the end of the proximate phalanx exposed: here it will often sulHco to take awriy the denuded portion of it with the cutting jilicrs, and save a proper flap for covering the end of tluj remaining part. It is sometinu's desirable to save as much as possible of the proximal phalanx, when amputation is rendered necessary by disease of the middle articulation, or of the distal extremity of a