DISLOCATION. £15 H L 2 stances are mentioned by Malgaigne. In one the Ibiirth cartilage was dislocated forwards on the ster- num ; in another the fonrth, fifth, and sixth nnder- went a similar displacement. In the latter case, reduction was effected and maintained by placing |)illows under the back, so as to curve the trunk backwards. (Loc. cit. p. 399.)]' [Dislocations or the Sternum.] [Dislocations of the sternum are rare. Occasion- ally, liowever, a separation of the first from the second piece has been met with. M. Malgaigiie has collected ten examples of this accident. In some of these it was produced by direct force, such as a blow,, or severe pressure, applied to the sternum itself ; but more frequently it was caused by a fall from a considerable height, in which the spine was forciblj' bent forwards, and the two pieces of bone being pressed together, the lower became displaced in front of the upper. A dislocation in the opposite direction, i.e. of the lower piece behind the upper, has not yet been met with. In one case the displacementoccurred in consequence of a forcible bending backwards of the spine, and the two pieces of bone were torn away, and separated by an interval, from each otiier. Dislocation of the sternum requires extreme violence for its pro- duction, and it is therefore likely to be accompanied by other complications, as fracture of some part of the spine, or injury to internal organs : of the ten cases alluded to, five terminated fatally from other complications, but those in which the dislocation of the sternum was the only mischief, no very serious consequences appear to have resulted. The reduction, however, has been attended with great difficult)', and has sometimes been impossible. Where there is much overlapping of the first piece by the second, a firm bolster placed under the back to piyduce extension of the spine appears the most likely to be attended with advantage. Displacement of the Ensiform Cartilage.—Two observations are recorded. In one the cartilage was driven inwards by a blow on the epigastrium. Freqnent voiiiit'ng followed the accident, and con- tinued until the cartilage was restored to its normal position. This was accomplished by the surgeon pressing his fingers beneath it, and elevating it into its place. The subject of the second case was a sailor, who fell upon the seat of a boat, and struck his epigastrium. He had violent pains in the stomach, dyspnoea, and vomiting, and for five and twenty days was unable to swallow the smallest quantity of fluid without immediately rejecting it. At length, his death being imminent, it was re- solved to attempt to relieve him by an operation. An incision was made on one side of the depressed cartilage, extending through the peritoneum. An instrument was tlien passed beneath it, and it was raised into its place. The patient immediately expressed himself relieved, the vomiting ceased, and he rapidly recovered, (See Malmigne, loc. cit. p. 409,)] Dislocations op the Steuno clavicular Articulation. The ckyicle may be luxated at its sternal ex- tremity, for viurc/s^ backwards^ or upwards ^ but never downwards, on account of the situation of the cartilage of the first rib. The luxation for- wards is the most frequent ; that backwards is unusual; and the one upwards is still mora rnra. Dislocation forwards.—In this dislocation a hard circumscribed tumor is felt, or oven seen, on the front and upper part of the sternum. According to Boyer, when the shoulder is carried forward and outward, the tiuuor disappears ; but, in Sir Astley Cooper's account, it is said, that the projection on the ster- num will subside, if the shoulder be drawn back- ward. Tlie shoulder being elevated, the projection descends; if it be drawn downwards, the dislocated extremity of the bone becomes elevated to the neck. The motions of the clavicle are painful, and the patient moves the shoulder with difficulty. The point of the acromion is less distant from the cen- tral line of the sternum than usual. The disloca- tion forwards is generally produced by a fall upon the point of the shoulder, when the force pushes the clavicle inwards and forwards ; but it also happens, from falls upon the elbow when this is separated from the side, and thus the clavicle is propelled violently inwards and forwards against the anterior portion of the capsular ligament. (See A. Cooper, On. Dislocations, p. 399.) [The dislocation forwardsis sometimesincomplete, only the front of the capsular ligament being torn ; and in this case, as the clavicle is only partially' displaced from the articular surface on the sternum, the measurement from the acromion to the median line of the sternnm is not altered. M. Malgaigne remarks, that in the partial dislocation, of which he records three examples, the displacement is always slightly upiuards as well as forwards; whereas, in the complete dislocation, the sternal end of the clavicle usually descends Leloiv the na- tural level. (Traits des Fractures, d-c. t. ii. p 410 Paris, 1855.)] ' Dislocation baclacards.—[In this accident, of which M. Malgaigne has collected eleven exam- ples, there is a depression_,where the end of the clavicle ought to be, thisj bone being displaced backwards behind the sternum, and, accordino' to M. Malgaigne,behind the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles. It may be displaced backwards and downwards, so as to be completely concealed by the sternum, or backwards and upwards so as to form a projection at the front and lower part of the neck. In some of the cases tlie displaced bone has compressed the trachea and oesophagus, and iias interfered with respiration and deglutition, but in tlie majority tiiese symptoms have not been present. The cause of the dislocation backwards has generally been violence applied to the shoulder in a direction from behind for- wards, forcing the sternal end of the clavicle backwards, and causing the posterior sterno-clavi- cular ligament to give way. Sometimes, however, the force has operated directly on the sternal end of the clavicle, so as to force it backwards as in a case recorded by Mr. Spender, whore the' patient had been thrown from his horse, and the animal in attempting to rise, had placed its fore foot upon his clavicle. {Land. Mod. Gaz. 1844, vol. ii. p. .369.) A case oi coinpouml dislocation of the cla- vicle backwards, from direct violence, was under tiie care of Mr. Tyrrel, in St. Thomas's Hospital m 1035. The patient, a railway labourer had been buried by a slip of earth, and the sharp end of a pickaxe, with which he was working, had been driven into his chest. In tliis case the lung was wounded, and there was considerable laceration of the muscles ; nevertheless ho recovered favourably.'"' (Sec <S'o«/y/, 7V<r;is. ofC/wJiu.t, vol. i. p. 77,i.)i