CANCER. Twenty-two of these had been cured at least two years ; and some of them, it may be remarked, were seventy, and one ninety years old, In the year 1770, the sum of the whole stood thus : — Of eighty-eight cancers, extirpated at least two years before: not cured, two ; broke out afresh, nine ; threatened with a relapse, one ; in all, twelve, which is less than a seventh part of the whole number. At that time, there were about forty patients alive and sound whose can- cers had been extirpated above two years before. Mr. B. Bell, who was present at many of these cases, bears witness to Mr. Hill's accuracy ; and states, that " from these and many other authenti- cated facts, which, if necessary, might be adduced, of the success attending the extirpation of cancers, there is, it is presumed, great reasons for consi- dering the disease in general as a local com- plaint, not originally connected with any disorder of the system." With respect to Mr. Bell's opi- nion, that a general cancerous taint seldom, or per- haps never, occurs, but in consequence of the cancerous virus being absorbed into the constitution from some local affection, much doubt attends even this supposition, though the practical inference from it is what cannot be found fault with, viz. in every case of real cancer, or rather in such scir- rhosities, as, from their nature, are known generally to terminate in cancer, we should have recourse to extirpation as early as possible ; " and if this were done soon after the appearance of such affec- tions, or before the formation of matter takes place, their return would probably be a very rare occur- rence." (Si/slem of Surgery, vol. vii.) Sir Astley Cooper admits, that the operation is followed by a return of the disease in many cases, the average number of which, however, he does not state, though he says that they do not amount to one fourth. How often is the operation determined upon, be- cause the nipple is retracted, and true cancer there- by announced ! Yet, says Sir Charles Bell, with reference to the cause of this change, as previously explained, " it is quite clear, that if the nipple be fully retracted, and if this has been evident for any considerable time, the operation has been too long deferred." {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xii. p. 223.) Sir Astley Cooper is adverse to the performance of the operation when dyspnoea is present ; for he has known patients die in two or three days, who had been operated upon while labouring under that symptom. On examination after death, water was found in their chests, and tubercles in the pleura. The same experienced surgeon gives it as his opinion, that a breast should never be removed, unless the patient has undergone a course of altera- tive medicines, as compound calomel pills and the compound decoction of sarsaparilla, or (what he prefers) the infusion of gentian with soda and rhu- barb. Thus he thinks the constitution may be im- proved, and the danger of a relapse diminished. After comparing tlie different accoinits of suc- cess given by Monro and Hill, well migiit Riclitcr say: '■^ Jure sa7ie dicceris, da uno eodemquc morbo Jios viros loqui, dubilari fere potest." {Obs. Chir. fuse. 3.) Medicines and Plans which have bbbn tried FOR THE Cure op Scirrhus and Cancer. It is a contested point, whether a truly can- cerous disease is susceptible of any process by which a spontaneous cure can be effected. It ap- pears certain, however, that a violent inflammation, ending in sloughing, may sometimes accomplish an entire separation of a cancerous affection, and that the sore left behind may then heal. Facts confirming this observation are occasionally ex- emplified where caustic is used, and accidental in- flammations have led to the same fortunate result^ as we may be convinced of by examples recorded by Sir Everard Home, Richerand, &c. The latter writer, adverting to the effort which nature some- times makes to rid herself of the disease by the in- flammation and bursting of the tumor, takes the op- portiuiity to relate the following case : —A woman, aged forty-eight, of a strong constitution, was ad- mitted into the Hospital of St Louis, with a can- cerous tumor of the right breast. The swelling, after becoming softer, and affected with lancinating pains, was attacked with an inflammation, which extended to the skin of the part, and all the adja- cent cellular membrane. The whole of the swell- ing mortified, and was detached. A large sore, of healthj' appearance, remained after this loss of substance, and healed in two months. (Nosogra- pliie Cldr. t. i. p. 381, edit. 2.) I once attended a woman who died of cancer of the uterus, and in the same room was her mo- ther, all the forepart of whose chest was in a most mutilated state from the effects of sloughing, by which, at different periods, she had been freed from cancers of both her breasts. Baron Dupuytren believed that it was particularly when the can- cerous mass was encysted, that the whole of it was capable of being destroyed by gangrene, and the patient completely cured. (See Jouni. Hebdomad, de Med. t. iv. p. 38.) Many years ago, Mr. Cline had a patient in St. Thomas's Hospital, in whom the sloughing process went on to such an extent, under a linseed poultice, that the ulcer afterwards healed soundly. " I have seen (says Mr. Tra- vers) more than one case in which extensive cica- trices of ulcers existed, with much puckering and stretching of the skin of the chest, and no vestige of the breast remained. In one of these, the pa- tient a lady in Berkshire, resisted the pressing ad- vice of a consultation of London surgeons to allow the extirpation of the tumor many years since. She has been in the constant habit of taking the medicine there prescribed, the extract of hemlock, almost ad libitum. She is still a stout healthy looking person, as formerly, and attributes her cur," to the medicine. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xv. p. 213.) In general, however, inflammation renders thinps worse instead of better, and by converting cccult cancers into ulcerated ones, hastens the patient's death, or at all events renders the cure more difii- cult, and forbids any attempts, which, on such a principle, might be made for his relief. Of the general remedies, narcotics, as conium, opimn, belladonna, &c. have been employed with most hope. Cicuta, or conium maculatum, owed its repu- tation to the experimenting talent of Storck, who has written several treatises on it. According to him, cicuta, possesses very evident powers over cancer, and has cured a great many cases ; but, in less prejudiced hands, it has not been found successful ; and oven in many of the instances, adduced by Baron Storck of its utility, it is by no means proved that the disease was really cancer.