1037 HYDROCELE. them in cysts tapped for the first time, and m others never before opened until after death. Mr. Paget considered the more probable explanation of those cases to bo " that certain cysts seated near the organ which naturally secretes the mate- rial for semen may possess a power of secreting a simiiarfluid." (See Surgical Palhol.\o\. ii. p. 53.) His theory was combated by Dr. Macdonnell, who supposed that in the first instance " the disease is merely a simple dilatation of one of the ducts, the result of contraction or obliteration of its canal from local inflammation, caused by some injury to the part; that, after some time, this dilatation gives way and pours its contents into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, in which they accumulate, in some in- stances without interfering with the functions of the membrane, but in other instances the serous membrane takes on diseased action, and its secre- tion becomes mixed with that originally poured out from, and still secreted by, the ruptured cyst." See British American Journal of Medicine, March 1849, and Ranking's Abstract, vol. x. p. 98.) In this way, he observes, we can understand how the fluid may, in one case, present a limpid appearance, devoid of albumen, and in the other exhibit a co- pious admixture of albumen and a variety of colours ; and in both we may find many or few spermatozoa, in some cases alive, in others dead and partially disorganised. The practical deduc- tion drawn from this is, that their presence should not deter an attempt at radical cure, which, if not accomplished by one method, may be effected by another. The explanation given by Mr. Curling is very similar to Dr. Macdonnell's; it is as follows : — '•' The explanation which I offered ghortly after the discovery of spermatozoa in these cyats was, that their presence was probably owing to the rup- ture of one of the tubes of the epididymis, and the escape of semen into the sac of the hydrocele. The close proximity of the efferent tubes to the cyst, the slight texture of the ducts, the thin and delicate walls of the sac, and the liability of the part to contusion and injury vvhen a swelling even of moderate size exists, seemed to favour this view." (Op. cit. p. 138.) In investigating the history of these cases, Mr. Curling found in a majority that swelling had formed after an injury to the testicle, so that it was most probable that a duct had been ruptured by the contusion. With the assistance of Mr. John Quekett he succeeded in detecting a communication between the tubes and sac in two instances, a true solution of the presence of sper- matozoa in encysted hydroceles. Luschka states that the cavity in many instances communicates so openly with the seminiferous canal that the hyda- tid may be taken to represent a vesicular dilata- tion of the extremity of the latter, projecting beneath the epididymis. The communication with the seminal tube, when narrower can, however, always be demonstrated by the introduction of a bristle, or by mercurial injection. (Sec Virohoio's Archiv f. Path.Anat.n. I'hijsioL vol. vi. p. 310, and Curling's Work, p. 142.) In those cases of hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis which have been said to contain spermatozoa, it is believed that they may have been in reality encysted hydro- celes; or examples of a combination of the two conditions, in which the encysted hydrocele liad burst, and its contents had escaped into the cavity of a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. The diagnosis between the two conditions is acknowledged to be very difficult, but the observations of several accu- rate investigators rather confirni the presence of spermatozoa in some instances of vaginal hydro- cele, although their occurrence is admitted to be extremely rare. Mr. Lloyd believes that in some cases he obtained them from hydroceles of the tunica vaginalis, and his belief was confirmed by the examination of a case after death, as stated by Mr. Paget. (See Surgical Fath. vol. ii. p. SS.) Mr. Miller thinks " it is still matter of dispute whether these had escaped from an accidental wound or giving way of the tubiilar structure, either of the testicle or of the epididymis; or whether the cyst from which they were derived had been formed by dilatation of the tubular structure — as takes place in lacteal tumors of the breast, and in ranula. If the latter opinion prove true, as is inclined to by Mr. Liston, little benefit need be expected to result from injection in such cases." (See Practice of Surgery.) An encysted hydrocele of the testicle, or epididy- mis, commences imperceptibly, increases gradually, and produces no pain. When as large as a grape or walnut it may remain stationary for many years. It can be felt through the scrotum, with the testicle of an irregular form. It sometimes continues to grow until it forms a tense elastic swelling, twice, thrice, or even four times the size of the testicle, but which seldom becomes so large as a simple hydrocele. In large tumors the situation of the testicle may be ascertained, as in simple hydrocele, by transmitted light, by the solid feel at one part, and the pain there on pressure. If two or more cysts are present, the tumor in the scrotum is lobular, but the elastic fluctuating cysts can gene- rally be distinguished from the solid gland. In some cases more pain is felt than in other forms of hydrocele, the uneasiness extending up to the loins. The pain is generally relieved by punc- turing the cysts. In endeavouring to form a correct diagnosis the following facts must be remembered : the gland is differently placed to what it is in ordinary hydro- cele, being generally in front or at the bottom of the tumor ; the smaller size of the swelling, and the limpid and colourless character of the fluid evacuated. As the position of the testicle is liable to variation in ordinary hydrocele, the nature of the case cannot always be determined with accu- racy until the cyst has been punctured and the nature of the fluid ascertained. By this means Mr. Curling made out a small encysted hydrocele combined with a large varicocele ; the diagnosis was, however, difficult, as the dilated veins con- cealed the cyst, and rendered fluctuation indistinct. A few drops of milky fluid containing spermatozoa, which were obtained by puncture with a needle, rendered the nature of the case sufficiently clear. If the hydrocele is niultilocular, fluctuation and transparency are usually indistinct. M. Sedillot thinks that the term spermatic hydrocele is the best suited for this form of hydrocele, in conse- quence of its nature and the impossibility usually of distinguishing it from ordinary hydrocele. (See Union Mcdicale, 1857). The treatment is almost'solely confined to iodine injections, as practised by Curling, Macdonnell, and many others, with results on the whole of a most satisiiictory nature. Mr. Curling advises non- interference if the tumor is small and painless.