HEAD, INJURIES OF THE, 899 3 M 2 sented themselves, the operation might liave been indicated, though not so in an earlier stage ; but, without being in possession of all the particulars <if the case, I offer this remark without any intention of being critical. M. Velpeau is not on the whole an over-zealous advocate for the operation ; and some of his advice approximates very much to that delivered by Sir Astley Cooper, with a modification, depending upon whether the depression is immovable and fixed. If it be of this kind, without manifest compression, ho recommends delay, and antiphlogistic treatment. But when there is a wound, with denudation to tlie bottom of it, the operation seems to him called for, oven though urgent or unequivocal symptoms of compression may be absent. He would not tre- pan, however, if the depression were broad, and of no great depth; if the intellects were uninterrupted, and there were no marks of paralysis. M. Velpeau regards a depression with mobility of the bone as far more dangerous. An effusion of blood first and pus afterwards, he sets down as frequent conse- quences of it ; and the case is almost sure to prove fatal, unlessthe trepan be employed. (Op.cit. p. 58.} A movable depressed fragment, I may observe, rnay often be removed with the forceps without any occasion to perforate the cranium with the trephine or trepan ; and, if not removable in this simple manner, may frequently be taken away by dividing a small portion of the bone with one of Hey's saws. (See Trephine.) M. Velpeau adverts to one species of depression, in which no good is derived fiora the trepan, namely, that in which the fracture is usually extensive and the edges of the fragments overlap one another, in consequence of a violent concussion of the skull. Here, says he, the degree of crush- ing, contusion, and extravasation at different points, makes the patient's recovery almost impossible. In another place, M. Velpeau points out the prac- tical importance of studying the differences in the symptoms of compression according as they depend upon a depression of bone, either simple or commi- nuted, a foreign body, an extravasation of blood, or an effusion of pus. A simple depressed fracture he sets down as the most favourable of these cases ; for if the operation is not done, the brain in the end frequently becomes habituated to the pressure and resumes its functions. If no extravasation take place, the pressure arising from a depressed fracture is really less than might at first be imagined. If the operation be decided upon, it presents tlie greatest chances of success, provided the com- pressing cause has not seriously wounded the brain. The rule which M. Velpeau hero lays down, is, that in cases of depression, if the symptoms are not urgent, or begin to abate after twenty-four hours, the trepan may be dispensed with ; but if they arc at all intense, or make progress, the operation is strictly required. {Dc I'Opir.du Tnpan,-p. 120.) In children, a portion of the skull is sometimes depressed, or indented by a blow, but in a few days regains its natural level, without the aid of the surgeon. In such examples, it is conceived by Sir Benjamin Brodio, that the earthy part of the bone gives way, while the animal part remains en- tire, so that there is not an actual solution of con- tinnity; and ho supposes that the restoration of the bono to its proper level is brought about by the con- stant pulsations of the brain against its inner surface (See Med. Chir, Trans, vol, xiv. p. 332.) M. Velpeau denies the possibility of indentations without fracture. (Op. cit. p. 36.) Sometimes a considerable depression of the bone arises from the external table being driven into the diploe, while the inner table is entire. To trephine, therefore, merely because there is a depression of the bone, would be completely erroneous, and the only safe principle is that which 1 have just now specified. The depression of the outer table in the foregoing manner I have never seen myself, except over the frontal sinus. Sir Astley Cooper, however, mentions it as a frequent occurrence; but that it is confined to persons of middle age, as in very young and very old persons the skull is thin and without diploe. {Lectures, vol. i. p. 302.) Another sort of depression, I believe, is more frequent; at least, I have seen' several examples of the case: it consists in a frac- ture and depression of the internal table, while the external one continues unbroken. A case of this kind, attended with urgent symptoms of compres- sion, I trephined at Brussels after the battle of Waterloo ; a large splinter of the inner table was driven more than an inch into the brain, and, on its extraction, the patient's senses and power of voluntary motion instantly returned. The part of the skull to which the trephine was applied, of course, did not indicate externally any depres- sion, and it was selected because the appearance of the scalp showed that there the external violence had operated. I rather expected to find extra- vasated blood than a depression of the inner table of the skull. (See also Sauceroite, in Mem. pour lePrix da I'Acad. de Chir. t. iv. ed. 1819, p. 322. Bilgtter, two examples as quoted by M. Velpeau, Da I'Oper. du Trepan, p. 29. Hennens Military Surgery, p. 323, ed. 2.; and Sir B. C. Brodie, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvi. p. 331.) In military surgery, particular cases present themselves, which scarcely admit of being com- prehended within the tenour of any general rules and principles. Thus it sometimes happens that a ball breaks the os frontis, and the whole or a part of it lodges in the frontal sinus, with or without fracture of the inner boundary of this cavity. In cases of this description, Baron Larrey recommends exposing the course of the fracture bj' a free incision, and the use of the trephine for the removal of the extraneous body. When the inner side of the sinus was found broken and depressed, he next perforated that part of the cavity with a small conical trephine, took away such pieces of bone as required removal, and k't out any extravasated blood. Sometimes, however, the front of the sinus is so splintered, that the fragments, when taken away with the forceps, leave the cavity sufHciently opened, not only for the extraction of the ball, but for the application of the trephine to the inside of the sinus, as we find exemplified in one of the two cases of this nature which Larrey met with in the I'lgyptian campaign. (7l/c;». de Chir. Mililaire, t. ii. p. 13!).) After the battle of Witopsk, in 1812, he was called to two llussian soldiers, whose cases were remarkable ; one of them had been struck above the right eyebrow with a grape-shot, which, after breaking and penetrating the frontal bone, entered the cavity of the cranium, so as to lodge upon the anterior right lobe of the brain, and the orbital process and internal crista of the os frontis. Notwithstanding the large size of the ball, little of it could bo seen externally, and tiic aperture