358 BURNS, ing a preference to small punctures; a practice which has the sanction of Dupuytren, who observes, that only a single prick of the vesicle with a needle, or the point of a lancet, should be made in its most depending part. On the subject of Opening vesicles in burns, Dr. Thomson believes that the diversity of opinion arises from the different effects resulting from the particular manner in which the opening is made. "If a portion of the cuticle be. removed, so as to permit the air to come into contact with the in- flamed surface of the cutis, pain, and a considerable degree of general irritation, will necessarily be in- duced ; but if the vesications be opened cautiously with the point of a needle, so as to allow the serum to drain off slowly, without, at the same time, allow- ing the air to enter between the cuticle and cutis, the early opening of the vesications will not only not occasion pain, but will give considerable relief; by diminishing the state of tension with which the vesications are almost always, in a greater or less degree, accompanied. When opened in this manner, the vesications frequently fill again with serum ; but the punctures may be repeated as often as is necessary, without any hazard of aggravating the inflammation. Great cffre should be taken, in every instance, to preserve the raised portion of cuticle as entire as possible," &c. (See Lecture on Inflammation, p. 595.) [III. In more severe burns we may have to treat merely an inflamed and exposed cutis ; or the skin may have been destroyed, and we have a slough- ing sore—a mass of disorganised tissue covering the surface of the burnt part. In the one case the treatment described under the second head is to be generally adopted; in the other the application of stimulants is necessary, and of all stimulants tur- pentine appears to be the most useful.] Dr. Kentish, who wrote towards the close of the last century on burns, relied chiefly on alcohol, liquor ammonia; subcarbonatis, ajther (so applied as to avoid the cooling process of evaporation), and spirit of turpentine. In applying these, we are directed to proceed as follows":—The injured parts are to be bathed, two or three times over, with spirits of wine, spirits of wine with camphor, or spirit of turpentine, heated by standing in hot water. After .this a liniment, composed of the ceratum resins softened with spirit of turpentine, is to be spread on soft cloth, and applied. This liniment is to be renewed only once in twenty-four hours, and at the second dressing the parts are to be washed with proof spirit, or laudanum, made warm. When the se- cretion of pus takes place, milder applications must be made till the cure is effected. The yellow ointment stops the pores of the cloth, impedes evaporation, and thus confines the effect of the alcohol to the burnt surface. The first dressings are to remain on four and twenty hours. Dr. Kentisii thinks it of importance that the in- jured surface should be left uncovered as little as possible. It is therefore reconnnended to let the new plasters be quite ready, before the old ones are removed, and then only to take oft' one piece at a time. It will seldom be necessary to repeat the appli- cation of idcohol, or that of oleum terebinlliina;. [Dr. Kentish's plan has been ■■xtensively fol- lowed, and has met both with praise and abuse. When properly applied it has done much goodj and when misapplied a great deal of harm. In deciding whether to adopt or reject it in any case the following rules should be borne in mind:—It should never be employed in the extensive super- ficial burus of children, as it produces the most intense agony, and a very dangerous amount of constitutional irritation may be set up. In other cases it is very useful as a stimulant before reac- tion is set up; and in cases of sloughing sores after burns it is invaluable. Whenever the burnt parts are quite disorganised the best treatment is to bathe those parts with warm spirits of turpentine, as advised by Kentish, and then to cover them completely with his cerate spread thickly on soft lint. This, so far from being an irritating applica- tion, is very soothing even to young children, offer- ing a marked contrast to its effects in superficial burns. But it is not advisable to follow Dr. Ken- tish's plans further than this. He advises us on the second or third day, or as soon as pain ceases, to remove the first dressing and employ simple oil, or calamine cerate. This is a great practical error. The patient is easy. The air is excluded. No possible good can be done by disturbing the first dressings until suppuration is fairly established. The patient is saved unnecessary fatigue and pain, and the surgeon much trouble, by non-interference. After some days, when suppuration has been esta- blished, the dressing may be removed, and then very probably the sloughs may separate if a stream of warm water be squeezed over them from a sponge. If the slough still adhere, warm water dressing, or a poultice, may be applied until separa- tion takes place; when the remaining sores must be treated on the ordinary principles regulating the local treatment of granulating surfaces. They must be kept covered by some clean soft dressing. Any dry or offensive pus must be removed, but the soft creamy coating of pus, which is nature's best protection to a granulating surface, must not be washed away. The blueish film around the margin of the healing ulcer must be carefully pre- served from injury, taking care to prevent the dressings from adhering to it. When any such sore is in a situation where the contraction which follows granulation would be likely to lead to de- formity or impaired function of any part, special precautions must be taken to obviate any such ill effect.] Dupuytren enters into some very interest- ing reflections on the surgical plans which are to be adopted, in order to make tiie cicatrix correspond as accurately as possible to the destroyed textures. The first is, position of the limb or part. Here the general maxim is to let the position of the part be diametrically the reverse of what would promote the cure, by bringing the edges of the ulcer towards one another. The desideratum is to obtain a cicatrix, whose extent should be equal to that of the destroyed skin, and even somewhat greater, on account of tlie contractile property of the new texture Thus, if the burn is on the front of the elbow, the arm is to be kept forcibly extended, until the substance of the cicatrix has been formed. The same plan is applicable to burns of the anterior part of the fingers, hand, and wrist, groin, sole ot the foot, ham, &c, Supposing the burn to be on the back of the neck, the ciiin is to be kept ap- proximated to the chest; but, on ^"S' the burn is on the forepart or side of t';">l^. opposite position is to be maintained. XI the Durn is on the front of the knee, or back of the elbow,