191 ANEURISM. inner coats of the artery, and thus promote its . claim, and with much more effect, because the ) i method of operating T liavo already noticed, nor shall I repeat tlie objections to it. With respect to the Hunteriau practice, the great peculiarities of which were tying the artery at some distance ahove : the disease, and not opening the swelling at all, 1 Kicherand seems offended that Hunter's name • should be affixed to an operation, which he con- , ceives was in reality the invention of Guillemeau. I Here we observe TEtius again puts in a prior ! method of which he speaks, truly resembled Mr. I Hunter's, inasmuch as the vessel is directed to be : tied at some distance above the swelling, while Guillemeau only tied the artery close above the : disease, and opened ihe sivclling, a serious deviation ■ from the Hunterian practice. Guillemeau, a disciple of Ambrose Par^, having ; to treat an aneurism at the bend of the arm, the : consequence of bleeding, exposed the artery above I the tumor, tied this vessel, then opened the sac, 1 took out the coagulated blood, and dressed the 1 womid, which healed by suppuration. After more 1 than a century^ Anel, on being consulted about a i similar case, tied the artery above the swelling, ' which was left to itself. The pulsation ceased, : the tumor became smaller, and hard, and after ? some months no traces of the disease were per- ; ceptible. In 1785, Desault operated in the same manner for a popliteal aneurism : the swelling diminished by one half, and the throbbings ceased; on the I twentieth day it burst; coagulated blood and pus were discluirged in large quantities; and the wound, after continuing a long time fistulous, at length healed. Towards the end of the same year, Hunter applied the ligature somewhat differently; instead of placing it close to the swelling, or directly above it, he put it on the inferior part of the femoral ar- tery. (See RicJieiand, Nosogr. Cliir. t. iv. p. 98, 99, edit. 2.) Unquestionably Anel did, in one solitary instance, tie the brachial artery immedi- ately above an aneurism at the bend of the arm, and effected a cure without opening the swelling (Suite de la Nouvelle Methode de gutrir les Fistules laclirymales, p. 251, Turin, 1714); but he did not think of applying the plan to tlie femoral artery, or draw the attention of French surgeons suffi- ciently to the matter, to make them imitate his operation J on the contrary, the method fell into oblivion, and was never repeated. With regard to Desanlt's operation, said to have been done in 1 an earlier part of 1785 than Mr. Hunter's first operation, it is only necessary to say, that Desault tied the popliteal artery itself, while the grand object in Mr. Hunter's method was to take up the femoral artery, at a distance from the disease, and that it is this last mode alone which has gained such approbation, and been attended with unparalleled success. The French surgeons have not practised the Hunterian operation with the same degree of suc- cess with which it has been performed in England, and, consequently, they have often returned to the o!fl method of opening the sac, &c. Kvon Boycr averred, a few years ago, his relinquishment of wl|at lie calls Anel's plan. {Trailc des Mai, Cliir. t. ii. p. 148.) But we shall not be surprised at this ill success, when we liear that some of them neglected, lor a long while, the right principles on which ligatures ought to bo applied to arteries, as 1 explained by Dr. Jones in his work on hemorrhage. Even Baron Dupuytren, until a late date, adhered to the use of ligatures of reserve ; while Boyer applied not less than four loose ligatures round the artery, besides two tight ones ; and consequently a large portion of the vessel lay separated from its natural connexions, and irritated by these ex- traneous substances. Hunter's first operation nearly failed also on account of so many ligatures, none of which were tightened so as to cut through the closure. (See Hemorrhage.) At length, how- ever, Dupuytren, and several other distinguished surgeons in France, convinced of the inutility and danger of ligatures of reserve, totally discon- tinued their employment. (See Lefons Orales de Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 531.) The following passage also shows the valuable reforms which have taken place in France in the mode of tying arteries and the treatment of aneurism. " The process ge- nerally emploji-ed at the present day," says Baron Dupuytren, "is that of Anel or Hunter. When an artery is tied in this plan, it is exposed, if pos- sible, at a point far enough from the aneurism for the vessel to be perfectly healthy, and in a situation where it is superficial ; so that the neighbouring veins and nerves may be more easily separated from it, and the ligature more conveniently tight- ened, in a proper degree. Another, not less im- portant precept, is to preserve above the wound, a sufficiency of collateral branches to keep up the cii-culation in the lower part of the limb after the operation, and to make the incision so that the ligatures may not be applied too near any large collateral vessels, particularly the superior ones, because their immediate proximity to the ligatures is one of the causes most to be apprehended of secondary hemorrhage. The incision should be extensive enough to let what is requisite be easily done to the artery, and the fascia should be even more freebj divided than the integuments." (Op. et vol. cit. p. 516.) With reference to the ope- ration for popliteal aneurism, Rosenmuller's C'hir. Anat. Plates, part iii. tab. 8 and 9 ; Scarpa's and Tiedemann's matchless engravings; Halter's Icones; Manec, de la Ligature des Arleres, pi. 9 and 10 • and Elias Bujalshy, Tabidm Anat. Cliir. Petropol! 1828 ; deserve to be consulted. Aneurisms op the Leg, Foot, Forearm, AND Hand.j It is not long since doubts were entertained of the possibility of curing an aneurism at the upper part of the calf of the leg by tying the femoral artery in the middle of the thigh, (Instituto Ital. di Scienze ed Arti, \o]. i. parte ii. p, 2G6.) The author here referred to was led by this uncertainty to have recourse in one instance to the severe method of laying open the tumor, in order to get at the vessel lower down. On this case, Scarpa makes some correct reflections: The operator (says he) .assured himself, that, on compressing tJie fe- moral artery at the jipper part of the thigh, the t'.imor at the lop oftliA calf ceased to pulsate ; and that, wlien ihe compression ivas continued for some time, the swelling partly disappeared, and became ■ softer. It ought to have been evident, therefore, that the aneurism might have been cured by tying the trinik of the femoral artery, as described in the foregoing section. In Scarpa's work is a case in which an aneurism at the bifurcation of the popliteal artery was cured by the ligature of tlie