p. 61.) Either this expedient, or that of CATAPLASMA CARBONIS. Made by the naculuni, is luiquestinnably prudent. A feu- years ago, the operation for a bubonocele was performed, and as the testicle was found dis- eased, the surgeon made a complete division of the spermatic cord, tied the spermatic arteries, and then left the testicle in its natural situation. After a time, the absorbents had diminished the part to a very small inconsiderable tumor. (H. Wcinhold, in Journ. der Pract. Heilkunde von C. W, Ilufeland und K. Ilimly, 1812, zehites stuck, p. 112.) This case merits attention, because it is the first instance, I believe, in which such practice was ever tried. Subsequently, the following work waspublished: — Nouvelle Mitliodc de trailer le Sarcocele, sans avoir recours a I'Ejctirpation dii Testicule ; par C. Tli. Maunoir, 8vo. Ge'neve, 1820. The new plan consists in dividing and tying the spermatic arteries, and leaving the rest of the cord and the testis un- disturbed. Instead of this plan, another has been proposed, which consists in merely removing an inch or two of the vas deferens from the cord. I do not find that these methods have yet been established. When disease, not merely an cedematous swell- ing, extends far up the cord, Pott considered cas- tration as too late. In such cases Lisfranc has Been Dubois pull down the cord and then divide it, and Baron Dupuytren cut up the inguinal canal to the internal ring ; but all the patients died. (C. Averil, Operative Surgery,-^. 103. Lnnd. 1823.) In one instance, I removed a testis for medullary disease, and observed in the part of the cord removed little white bodies, like millet seeds in size and shape. This led me to apprehend a relapse, but the patient has continued well for some years. In University College Hospital, I removed another testis, for the same kind of disease ; but I fear that the patient will ultimately die of another medullary tumor in the abdomen. See filiarp's Operations of Surgery, chap. x. Pott, On the Hydrocele, &c. Habaticr, Ue la M^d. Oper. torn. i. Berfrrindi, Traits des 0\)6r. de Chiruriric, chap. xi. CEuvres Cliir. de Desault, par Bicliat, torn. 11. p. 449. Larrev, M6m. de Chirurgie Mili- taire, torn. iii. p. 423, &c. John Fearsmi, On Can- cerous Complaints. J. L. Petit, 'VraxUs des Malailies Chir. torn. ii. p. 519, &c. C.Bell's Oi)erativo Surgery, vol. i. Roiix, Parall&le de la Chirurnie AnKloise avec la Chirurgie Fran^oise, p. 119, &c. Lawrence, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vi. p. ISO, 197. Sketches of the Medical Schools of Paris, by J. Orcen Cronse, p. i:)9, &c. flir A. Cooper's Lectures on the Princi[)le8 and Practice of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 8vo. Lend. 1825. Baron Vupui/lren, Lemons Oroles de Cliniquc Chir. t. iv. p. 109, &c. 8vo. Paris, 1834. A. L. M. Vclpcau, Nouveaux Eldm. do M^d. Opt-rat. t. ni. p. 537. 8vo. Paris, 1832. ./. F. Malgaiijne, Ma- nuel de M^d. Op<!rat. p. 624. CATAPLASM A ACETI. Made by mixing ft sufficient quantity of vinegar with cither oatmeal, linseed meal, or bread crumb. When linsfed is employed, it is best to add a little oatmeal or bread crumb, in order to keep the poultice from becoming hard. The vincgir poultice i.^ generally applied cold, and is principally used in cases of bruises and sprains. CATAPLASMA ALUMINI.S. Made by stirring the whites of two eggs with a bit of alum, till they are coagulated. In cases of chronic and purulent ophthalmia it hag been applied to the eye, between two bits of rag; and it has been praised as a good application to chilblains which are not broken. CATAPLASMA LINT, 415 mixing powdered charcoal and linseed meal with warm water, and applied as an antiseptic, to destroy the foetor of unhealthy and gangrenous ulcers. One part of powdered charcoal should be mixed with three or four parts of linseed meal. CATAPLASMA CEREVISI^E. Made by stirring some oatmeal, or linseed meal, in strong beer grounds. It is used in the same cases as the Cataplasma Fermenti. CATAPLASiMA CONII. R Herlm eicutji exfoLiatm, 3 ij. Aquce, 113 ij. To be boiled till only a pint remains, when as much linseed meal as necessary is to be added. Hemlock poidtice is an application for cancerous, scrofulous, and other ill-conditioned idcers, frequently producing a great diminution of the pain of such diseases, and im- proving their appearance. Justamond preferred the fresh herb bruised. A solution of the extract is sometimes added to an ordinary linseed poultice. [It is in this way that the Cataplasma Conii is ordered to be made in the present Pharmacopceia. 1851.] CATAPLASMA DAUCI. Carrot poultice. Some bruise tlie carrots in a mortar into a pulp ; while others first boil them. This poultice is em- ployed as an application to ulcerated cancers, scro- fulous sores, and various inveterate ulcers. CATAPLASMA FAEINACEUM. The bread and milk poultice, made by putting some slices of bread-crumb in milk, and letting them gently simmer over the fire in a saucepan, till they are properly softened. The mass is then to be mixed and stirred about with a spoon, and spread on linen. CATAPLASMA FERMENTI CEREVISIiE. Yeast Poultice. R Farino) Tritici, \1b}. Fermenti cerevisue, Yeast diclce, jfe ss. These are to be inixed together and exposed to a moderate heat till effervescence begins. In cases of sloughing and many dl-conditioned ulcers, this is an applica- tion of great repute. [It operates as a gentle stimu- lus and as a corrector of fetid effluvia. The car- bonic acid which it gives off is considered to be its active ingredient. The Cataplasma Ffficula: Cerevisiaj, or beer groiindpoultice, is sometimes used in similar cases.] CATAPLASMA LINI. Linseed Poultice. Ik Farincv Lini, lb ss. Aq. Fenentis, tb jss. The powder is to be gradually sprinkled iiuo the hot water, wliilc they arc quickly blended together with a spoon. This is one of the best and most convenient of all the emollient poultices forconnnon cases, and it has nearly superseded that of bread and milk, which was formerly much more frequently emplo\'ed Mr. Hunter speaks in the following terms of the linseed poultice, and its uses . ' »Poultices are connnonly made too thin; bv which means the least pressure, or their own gravity removes them from tiie part: they should he thick enough to support a certain hi'm when applied. " They are generally made of stale bread and milk. This composition, in general, makes too Oriltlo an application ; it breaks easily into dilTerent porlious from the least motion, and often leaves some part of the wound uncovered, which is fms- trating the first intention. " The poultice, which makes the best application, and continues most nearly the same between each