GUNSHOT WOUNDS, plied pressure; in general they are easily managed, I'^^o^'tage controlled by p4sure tnd position. The amount of bleeding from very lar™ veins IS sometimes very inconsiderable. In a case under my care before Sebastopol, in which the subclavian vein, near its origin, was perforated bv a ballet, the haemorrhage was very trifling, and the slightest pressure arrested it. Inflammation of the vessel followed, however, and the man eventually died. •' A varicose state of the veins is apt to occur -after gunshot wounds. Dr. Hennen gives several cases, and states that it not unfrequently happens. T^BLE showing the number and results of cases . of Direct Injury to the Larger Arteries, not being at the same time cases of compound frac- ture, which came under treatment from 1st April 1855 to the end of tlie Crimean War in Men and Officers.] ' Total treated. DIED. Discharged and re-ad- mitted for amputation. In regi- mental hospitals. In secon- dary hospi- tals. Invalided. 13 9 0 2 2 .Gunshot Injuries op Joints. [Amongst the great variety of severe injuries that are met with after an action, perhaps none possess more interest than wounds of the articulations, owing to the numerous successful operations which have been performed for their removal by the Germans in the Schleswig-Holstein campaigns, the French in Algiers, and ourselves recently in the Crimea. These injuries are, however, seldom confined to the joint; they most usually implicate more or less of the cylinder of the bone as well; but even such lesions, which do not involve too great an extent of the shaft, may be suitable cases for excision, and some most successful operations of this nature Lave been performed. These wounds are in the present day somewhat shorn of their terrors, for they were looked upon by the old army surgeons as mortal; nevertheless they do form a class of cases entailing ■much anxiety on the surgeon who is called upon to treat them, as to the best proceeding to be adopted in the management of each particular case. Great triumphs have already been achieved, and by this •great advance in operative surgery tiie science of our art has been elevated, and the possibility of preserving a limb, or portion of a limb, for tlie un- happy sufferer, must ever enlist our best exertions for its further improvement and extension if pos- sible. Still happier results may j'et be accomplished by a more careful selection of the cases, greater skill in their performance, and more judicious after- treatment. Tlie gravity of these injuries is not always mani- fest in the first instance ; a slight wound may be, and often is, followed by quite as severe symptoms as in those cases where there is a more extensive original lesion of the joint. This forms one of the difticultics in determining what is the best line of treatment to be followed : one is loth to excise a joint for very partial injury of the bones and soft structures, j'et when inflammation is set up and suppuration of the entire articulation is esta- blished, the case then often becomes quite as severe in its consequences as where the wound and destruction of the deeper parts were of much greater magnitude in the first instance. As ageneral rule, the danger of these wounds of joints will depend chiefly on the size and complexity of the articulation afi^ected, the extent of the injury and the period which has elapsed since the receipt of the wound. Wounds of the ginglymoid articula- tions are considered to be more severe than those attecting the ball and socket joints, chiefly from their greater extent and more elaborate construc- tion. Larrey has remarked that tetanus often fol- lowed their injury. Hip-joint. ~ Severe compound fracture of the head, neck, and trochanters, or of the head and neck ot the thiyh-bone, or of the neck and upper part of the shaft without fracture of the head, which latter IS a much more common injur)-, the head of this bone not being often implicated in the fracture, are all suitable cases for excision. Mr. Guthrie ex- presses his opinion strongly in favour of this opera- tion in preference to leaving the case to nature, or performing the more severe operation of amputation at the hip-joint. {Commentaries, ed. 5. p. 81.) Esmarch considers that excision of the head of the femur ought to be performed in preference to exar- ticulation, although the single case operated on in the campaigns in the Duchies terminated unfavour- ably, whereas, out of seven exarticulations, one, a healthy young soldier seventeen j-ears of age, survived the operation, (p. 94.) The experience of I the Crimea is in favour of its performance ; of six [ cases operated on, one recovered, and it was supposed would have a tolerably useful limb ; another, a case of my own, lived five weeks after the operation, and was doing well until suppu- ration of the knee-joint supervened. In all the before-mentioned cases a portion of the shaft of the femur was included in the excision, in my own case about one-fifth. Seutin removed as much as six inches of the shaft in one case. In comparing the results of this operation with exarticulations of the limb performed in the En- glish army during the Crimean war, we find the whole of the latter terminated fatally, the longest surviving the operation only thirty-six hours. The French are stated to have had "thirteen primary and secondary amputations at the hip-joint after the battles of the Alma and Inkermann, all of which ended unfavourabl)'. Stromeyer recommends resection of the head of the femur even when the fracture barely extends into the capwle, as suppu- ration is sure to be set up in the articulation, and produce death by exhaustion. The objection that has been made to excision of the head of the femur—that the limb is rendered useless after the operation, even if recovery takes place—can hardly be entertained with reference to this particular injurj'. Indeed, it may even be questioned whether absolute inutility of the linib is always the inevitable result of such operations. It is to bo hoped that after a sufficient interval of time has elapsed to allow of consolidation of the parts, and the limb has been duly exercised, certain amount of motion, strength, and usefulness of the new joint maj' be regained. The true aspect in which tliis operation must be viewed, as lias been remarked by Dr. Macleod, is, tliat, as far