516 DISLOCATION. The only instance of the dislocation backwards known to Sir Astley Cooper proceeded from great deformity of the spine. In this extraordinary case, the bone gradually slipped behind the sternum, and produced so much inconvenience, by its pres- sure on the oesophagus, that the late Mr. Davie, of Bungay in Suftolk, was obliged to remove its sternal extremity. {Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations, p. 395. 401.) [Dislocation vpivards. — In this displacement, of which M. Malgaigne refers to five examples, the sternal end of the clavicle may be felt resting upon the upper border of the sternum, between the sterno-cleido mastoid muscle in front, and the sterno-hyoid muscles behind. The shoulder is de- pressed, and approximated to the median line. A considerable interval may be noticed between the sternal end of the clavicle and the cartilage of the first rib. This accident may be caused by a fall on the shoulder, or by any severe blow on that part, operating in such a manner as to force it down- wards and inivoA-ds.'] Treatment. — In reducing dislocations of the sternal end of the clavicle, we are to make a lever of the arm, by means of which the shoulder is brought outwards; and when thus brought out- wards, it is to be pushed forwards, if the dislocation be in that direction ; backwards, if the dislocation be behind; and upwards, if the dislocation be above. The same position of the arm, and the same apparatus, as in fractures of the clavicle, are to be employed. The wedge-like pad, with its thick part towards the axilla, for the purpose of inclining the shoulder outward, a sling for the support of the weight of the arm, and a bandage judiciously applied, are especiallj' necessary. In consequence of the obliquity and smoothness of the articular surfaces, the reduction is easj', but great attention is requisite to prevent a return of the displacement. [In the dislocation forwards, some advantage may be gained by fixing a compress over the eternal end of tbe clavicle, to retain it in its natural situation. An ordinary hernia truss has been emplo3'ed by M. Nelaton, the pad being placed over the head of the dislocated bone, and tne spring passing under the axilla of the sound side. A similar proceeding might be adopted in the dislocation upwards, although, in this case, the adjustment of the pressure would be more difficult. In the dislocation backwards, any direct application of pressure to the seat of the injury to prevent re- currence of the displacement is of course imprac- ticable.] Dislocations of the AcROMio-CiAVicuLAR Articulation. [Desault and Boyer represented this as much less common than dislocation of the sternal end of the bone, while Sir Astley Cooper's experience, with "Vvhich most surgeons now agree, pronounced them to be more frequent. The displacement of the acromial end of the clavicle is almost invariably vpwards. Exceptional cases, however, are recorded, Jn which it has been driven dowiiioards beneath i^^e acromion; and downivards and J'oriuards, be- neath the coracoid process. Disloculinn upwards. — It must be remembered that in addition to the proper ligaments of this jonit, the clavicle and scapula are firmly connected by the coraco-clavicular ligaments, wiiich latter, as well as those of the joint itself, must be torn through before any considerable separation can take place. A sUuIlI degree of displacement, however, may occur without rupture of the coraco- clavicular ligaments, and dislocations of this joint have therefore been divided into the complete and the incomplete, the distinction depending upon the degree of separation permitted by the laceration or otherwise of the ligaments in question. Sir A. Cooper appears to have thought that no dislocation, complete or incomplete, could happen without rup- ture of the outer or trapezoid portion of the coraco- clavicular ligament, but that in the partial dislo- cation, the inner or conoid portion remains entire, while, in the complete dislocation, both portions . must be torn through. The experiments of M. Bouisson, however, on the dead body show, that, when the acromio-clavicular ligaments are divided, the coraco-clavicular remaining intact, the imper- fect dislocation can be readily produced by pres- sing the scapula downwards and inwards. A fall on the top of the shoulder, or a heavy weight, or • a blow, pressing the acromion downwards may • produce this dislocation. The scapular end of the clavicle may be displaced directly upwards from the acromion, to the extent of; an inch or even an inch and a half ; more commonly ■ displacementupwards is combined with displacement:' outivards,the clavicle passing on to the upper surface • of the acromion, and the shoulder being drawn in- ■ wards by the muscles which approximate the arm to i the body. Further, this displacement on to the • acromion may be directly outwards, or outwards and ; forwards, the clavicle resting on the acromion near its apex; or outwards and backwards, when it will rest on that process near its union with the spine of the scapula. The displacement forwards • towards the apex of the acromion is the least fre- quent. These varieties probably depend ob the direction of the force by which the accident was i produced.] It has been asserted, that the violent action of' the trapezius muscle, in pulling the clavicle upwards, , may tend to produce the accident; but, as Sir ■ Astley Cooper has remarked, the mere action of " this muscle, without the siuuiltaneous operation of' great violence, could never tear both the ligaments of the coracoid process, which must give way ere this dislocation can happen. {On Dislocations., p. 406.) Pain at the top of the shoulder, a projec- tion of the end of the clavicle under the skin covering the acromion, and a depression of the shoulder, are sj'mptoms indicating what has hap- pened. The patient also inclines his head to the affected side, and avoids moving his arm or shoulder. This dislocation is reduced by carrying the shoulder outwards and backwards, and pressing the end of the dislocated bone downwards into its place. To mainlain the reduction, a thick cushion is placed in the axilla, and Desault's bandage for fractures of the clavicle (see Fr.\ctuues) is ap- plied, making the turns ascend from the elbow to the shotilder, so as to press the luxated end of the bono downward, and keep it in its due situation, at the same time that the elbow is confined close to the side, and supported in a sling, by which means the shoulder will be kept raised and inclined outwards. This plan, wliicli is advised by Boyer, is more efficient than the common practice, which consists in applying a compress, tlie figure of 8