JJ D "2 questra. That tlie chloride of zinc (or the sulphate) is the real potential means employed is plain, from the ciicumswuce that Mr. Moullin has sncceeded perfectly well with it alone in necrosing and enu- cleating eighteen tnmors. He has favonred me ■with the following statement relative to recurrences. Of seven cases which were operated on two years ago, there has been no return in any. Two, iiow- ever, have died from other causes within tlie period. No return of the disease has occurred in any of six cases which were operated on about eighteen months ago ; nor in four cases which have been operated on about one year ago. In one case, operated on two years ago, the tumor was only partially removed, and is still kept in abeyance by the application of tannin. The patient is a female, at. seventy-four ; her health at present is very fair. He does not by any means affirm that all these tumors were cancers, but he cannot doubt that the majority were. il/. Lando/fi's treatment of cancer, which he conducts in a most open candid manner, demands some notice. He applies the paste, of which the following is the formula, to the diseased parts, and gives at the same time pills containing a minute proportion of the chloride of bromine internallj'. Chloride of bromine, three parts ; chloride of zinc, two parts ; chloride of antimony, one part ; chloride of gold, one part ; liquorice poivdcr, q. s. to_ make a paste. The chloride of bromine is the principal agent, and has lately been used by itself. Cancers of the skin, the epithelial variety, lupus, &c. are treated by a combination of chloride of bromine, rvith basilicon ointment. Lint pledgets, spread with the caustic paste, are allowed to remain on twenty-four hours, and then removed, when a line of demarcation is observed separating the altered from tlie healthy tissues. Bread poultices or other soothing applications, are then to be em- ployed until the eschar separates, which occurs from the eighth to the fifteenth daj'. The only independent testimony I have met with regarding this mode of proceeding is that of Dr. Lamlje, in a communication respecting villous cancer, contained in Virchow's Archiv. vol. 8, p. 13C. He says, " the advantage of this caustic application consists in its causing the morbid growth to be replaced by a purulent layer of the same shape, while the borders of the excavation at the same time become smooth and clean, and closely approximated to the base. This advantage, however, is counterbalanced by the long continuance of the pain (twenty-four to thirty-six hours); and, still more, by the circum- stance that the inflammation provoked in the tumor excites a more rapid growth of the morbid forma- tion, and that one is never done with cauterizing." It appears sometimes that the slough adheres to the surface, as a protective covering, and that growth proceeds more rapidly beneath it, as uiuler a hot-bed. This is especially the case with more homogeneous, gelatinoid formations, which shoot up under the slough in a night, while the epithelial formations require a longer time. Operations by Knifk, The importance of the question as to whether a cancer should he submitted to the knife or not, re- quires a fuller discussion than was possible when the original article was written. M. Velpeau takes exception to the unfavourable opinions formed by physicians, because they only (ho says) see the 403 CANCER. hopeless cases of disease, on whom surgeons have exhausted their skill in vain. The deliberate judgment of Dr. Walshe, which I first cite, is not formed on the personal experience of any class but rests on the evidence of facts admitted by all! " First: Inasmuch as the number of permanent recoveries is infinitely small, and as no combination of circumstances, however favourable, protects the patient from relapse,—the operation cannot, in any individual case, be recommended as likely io cure the disease. Secondly: Inasmuch as no operation by excision is performed without the chance of some of the diseased structure being left behind, an accident which hastens the progress of the malady, —inasmuch as absolute certainty of the freedom of internal organs from the disease is unattainable ;— inasmuch as the dormant cancerous diathesis' is sometimes roused into activity by removal of a tumor ; inasmuch as cancers in a state of active growth acquire increased energy of vegetation if reproduced after extirpation and, lastly, inas- much as the operation itself has not verv unfre- quently proved both the occasion and the cause of death ; excision cannot be tinderiaken iviihout im- minent risk of placing the patient in a luorse con- dition than he or she ivas previously to the use of the knife. Thirdly : As a corollarv from the first and second inferences ; and inasmuch as the disease has unquestionably been cured, or arrested in its pro- gress by milder measures and inasmuch as the disease does not by any means, inevitably and un- fnling]^-, run a course destructive; of life ;—and in- asmuch as quiescent cancers have sometimes been succeeded by most active and virulent growths in consequence of untimely extirpation ; and inas- much as life has sometimes fallen a s.acrifice to operations for the removal of putative cancers • the operation slmuld, as a general rule, be abstained Jrom. These inferences refer to the general pro- priety of extirpation." More particularly, it may be stated, that "patients, having a cancerous tumor distinctly traceable to a blow as its apoa- rcntly exciting cause, whose constitution is as vet unimpaired, and in whom no hereditary taint can be discovered ; in whom the lymphatic system is unaffected ; ni whom the new growth is of the scirrhous species, tuberiform, and not infiltrated free from adhesion, of moderate size, unaccompanii'd with morbid changes in the skin, and spriiigin<r from bone (except the skull), or connected with the lip," may entertain " some faint hopes of perma- nent recovery" from the operation. On the other hand, " the operation is absolutely contraindicated as a curative measure" in patients "who have cancers either so placed that any part of them must of necessity be left behind, or manifestly in a state of active growth ; in whom the presence of interli-il cancer is even matter of faint likelihood ; in whom the cancerous cachexia is clearly established • in whom the communicating lymphatic system 'has even apparently grown cancerous; in whom the morbid mass is of the enceplialoid species (unless it be connected with bone), and of large dimensions • in whom the tumor is so placed and constituted' that the manual part of the operation (or its im- mediate consequences) is in itself attended with senons risk to life ; or when the ago and debility of the individual arc such as to entail similar danger. . Persons in whom, on the other iiaiul, the disease has existed for a number of years in an almost stationary condition, giving rise