to increase in number in inflammatory blood, al- tuberculosis, cancer, and the advanced stage of though not constantly, and in the vessels of an inrtamed part, and this increase is most frequent in persons of weak health and in certain diseases, aa tuberculosis. Denis observed an increase in the bulfy coat of inflamed blood ; the white cor- puscles approaching in appearance to pus corpus- cles, and the exudations from blood of this charac- ter having a great tendency to corpusculate and to form pus. Bennett and Virchow have shown that the blood may be loaded with white corpuscles for months and even years, to the extent of five times their usual quantity, and that such condition is not at all connected with inflammatory disease of an}' organ. These observers difter as to the true nature of the white corpuscles in these cases, whe- ther they are the usual white corpuscles of the blood or of the character of pus or mucus globules. This condition is often associated with organic disease of the spleen, liver, or lymphatic glands (See Leucocyth^mia.) The proportion of red corpuscles floating in the living vessels has been determined by ascertaining the proportion of dry corpuscles in extravasated blood. It is liable to very great variations in dis- ease. An excess, as a general rule,"represents an absolute increase of the organised part of the blood, in other words, an increased quantity of red blood in the system. The proportion may be one third more than the average, constituting eminently rich blood. When this increase cor responds with a healthy state of the liquor san- guinis, as respects the condition of'its albumen, fibrin, and other constituents, and a healthy state of the nervous system, it is accompanied by an aug- mentation of animal heat, a full firm pulse, in- creased sensibility and muscular irritability, and great mental energy, and the whole quantity of blood in the vessels is increased. (See Plethora.) But the vital powers of the blood are not at all times proportionate to the absolute or relative num- ber of red corpuscles. An excess of red corpuscles with a deficiency of fibrin, and of the natural viscosity of the liquor sanguinis, is associated with various dangerous conditions ; since, together with, and probably as a consequence of, the more liquid and less plastic character of the liquor sanguinis, the nutrition of the finer capillaries suf- fers and there is a liability to cerebral and other hsemorrhages. Again, blood with an excess of red corpuscles, circulated slowly, devolopes less heat than with a smaller quantity circulated more rapidly {Dr. J. T. Simon); and when red blood is made in excess beyond a certain point its direct effect is to oppress the heart and vessels, and to dnmnish the energy and rapidity of its own circu- lation. In some pathological states also, where the red corpuscles are relatively increased to a great extent, owing to the loss of the fluid con- stituents, as in cholera, their integrity is damaged and the energy of their functions destroyed. The red corpuscles are very frequently deficient. They may be reduced to one-sixth the usual quan- tity rendering the blood so poor as to re.scmljle coloured water. When moderately deficient, the colour is bright red, whereas it becomes darker than natural when they are in excess. The cor- puscles being deficient, and the proportion of filjrin remaining the same, are essential characteristics of tlie blood in chlorosis. (See Ciii.oiiosi.s.) A deficiency occurs also coustmitly in aiiiemia, scurvy BLOOD, PATHOLOGY OF. 333 Bright's disease, and has been observed in diabe- tes mellitus, acute purpura, aneurismal dilatation of the heart with dropsy, lead poisoning, and various cachectic states. A total destruction has been ob- served in malignant scarlatina with purpura, and in acute purpura with jaundice (G B. Williams, Principles of Medicine, ed. 2, p. 115), and various poisons introduced into the liquor sangui- nis may occasion their rapid disintegration ; the colouring matter, in extreme cases, being dissolved, and scarcely any entire corpuscles remaining. A morbid condition of the albuminous constituent of the liquor sanguinis appears to occasion a dimu- nition of the number of corpuscles, and in most of the cases here cited the deficiency corresponds with a deficiency of fibrin, two characteristic of some of the most fatal blood diseases. (See SpaNjEmia, ToxicoH^MiA, Tuberculosis.) Deficiency of red corpuscles with increase of fibrin has been observed in Leucocythaemia. {Dr. J. II. Bennett.) The alkaline salts of the blood vary consider- ably in disease. How far an excess or deficiency of these salts, as a whole, or of any salt in par- ticular, may be the cause or the effect of various affections is unknown. An excess of chloride of sodium is produced by salt diet, but only to a very slight extent, the extra quantity being eliminated by the kidneys almost as rapidly as absorbed. An excess of the alkaline salts has been detected, durino- the progress of acute exanthemata, in typhus, albu- minuria, dropsy, and hydrsmia, and even to the extent of double the average amount in malignant mtermittents and endemic dysentery. This ex- cess both of the chloride of sodium and of the carbonate of the alkalies has the effect of keep- mg the fibrm dissolved and of retarding or prevent- nig coagulation. By increasing the density of the liquor sangumis it modifies the condition of the red corpuscles, as seen by their bulging and becoming more concave. Chloride of sodium bein^ inti° mately connected with the transmutations of organic principles m the blood, any change in its propor- tion may exert a very powerful influence over them and such changes are found in some of the most fatal disorganisations of the blood. The alkaline salts have been found greatly di- minished in severe inflammations {Denis Leh- mami), increasing the tendency of the blood to coagulate. Dr. Garrod was led to the conclusion that a deficiency of potassa, or of its salts, is the proximate cause of scurvy; but although this may be true of the disease as it appears in some eases It cannot be so in others, since the general dote' rioration of the blood which induces the symptoms of scurvy difters as the disease has been observed under different circumstances. Lehmann states tl a the salts are diminished in the serum of cholera blood, bu Garrod found, although a larce quantity passes oft by the bowels, that the quan- tity of water evacuated is larger, and the percent- age of saliacs IS rather increased than diminished. A deficiency oi alkaline carbonates lowers thJ tcmporature at which albumen coagulates, and has a tendency to remove a portion of alkali from tlio albuminate of soda, whereby a portion of albumen becomes separated in a finely granul-ir form, and produces a degree of turbidity of tho serum. {I'kys. Clicmis. vol. ii. p. 20,5.) A dimi- nution of alkali also lessens the action of oxvuen on the constituents of tiie blood.