j and under the clavicle to the swelling. The tripod ! great vessels, viz, the innominata, the subcla- 1 uin, and the carotid, was destroyed by ulceration to the extent of about an inch, and the ends of both the last vessels opened into the wound. At this place, the pleura was considerably thickened by a layer of organized lymph. The inner surface of the carotid was covered with a coagulum, and its coats so much thickened, that a probe could hardly be passed into it. The consolidation reached up to the division into the external and internal carotid. The subclavian was pervious as far as the situation of the disease. The diameter of the brachial and other arteries of the right arm was natural. The external mam- mary arterj' was enlarged, but not the internal. The clavicle was carious, and several lymphatic glands under it in a state of suppuration. Though the result of the operation was unsuc- cessful, it proves, as Dr. Mott correctly remarks, ■ some interesting points; namely, that tying an arterj' of such magnitude, and so near the heart, may be done without occasioning any disturbance either in the functions of the brain, the heart, the lungs, or the right anu. The suppuration, which continually extended itsolf more and more deeplv, is set down by Dr. * Mott as the cause of the patient's death ; for, as no bleeding took place for several days after the detachment of the principal ligature, he believes that this must have fulfilled its duly, and that the artery had been closed. (See Neio York Med. and Surgical Register, 1818, vol. i.) The arteria innominata was also tied by Graefe, on the 5th of March, 182-3, in the Clinical Hos- pital of the University of Berlin, on account of a subclavian aneurism. The carotid was exposed, : and traced down to the innominata, to which a ANEURISM. 209 ligature was applied by means of a blunt tena- culum constructed for the purpose, the vessel being tied about an inch from the curvature of the aorta, and two inches from the heart. As soon as the ligature was tightened, the pulsation of the arteries of the right arm, right carotid, and right temporal artery ceased ; at the same instant, the throbbing of the aneurism stopped, and the tumor became flaccid. The constriction of the cord pro- duced no disturbance of any function. Tiie patient went on so well for several weeks afterwards, that no doubt was entertained of his recovery. How- ever, when the wound was nearly' healed, hemor- rhage came on ; and thougli it was suppressed, .and hopes b^gan to be again indulged, tiie bleeding recurred, and the patient died on the sixtj^-sevenlh da3\ Below the ligature tlie innominata was found closed with lymph. Graefe has written a distinct essay on the method in which the operation was done: the daily particulars of the case, and preparation from it, are placed in the Royal Ana- tomical Museum at Berlin. (See Journ. do Chi- rurgie, von C. F. Grcife. 2ind Ph. v. Wulther, b. iii. p. S9(i, &c. b. iv. p. 587.) The ligature of the innominata is stated to have been lately done at Paris; but in this third example the patient also died of hemorrhage. (See Dupmjlren, Lefons Omles, 4'c. t. iv. p. 611.) Of Mr. Wardrop's practice of tying the subclavian artery in aneurism of the arteria innominata itself, we shall presently speak. [The innominate artery, as may be seen by the accompanying table, has been 'ligatured nine tunes, and in every instance with a fatal result. In eight of these cases the operation was performed for subclavian aneurism, in the remaining one (that of Hutin), for hemorrhage from the axilla, after ligature of the subclavian. Operator. 1. Mott. 2. Gn.iEPE. 3. Hai.l. 4. dupuytren. 5. NOKMA.V. 6. Bla.n-d. AOE. Result. 57 Died on •26th day. Died on 67th day. Died on 5th day. Died. Died. Died on 18 th day. Remarks. Tied an inch below bifurcation. Ligature separated in fourteen days. Hemorrhage on twcnty-fiftli day stopped by pressure. Recurred on twenty-sixth. ' Ligature separated in fourteen days. Died of hemor- rhage. Coats of artery were diseased, and were tr.msfixed by the .aneurism needle. Wound plugged without success. Case referred to as occurring in the practice of Dupuytren! Hemorrhage on seventeenth and eighteenth da3-s, shortly after separation of ligature. In three other cases the operation has been com- menced, but abandoned owing to unforeseen and unavoidable difficulties ; and this by three of the most skilful operators that their respective coun- tries can boast of; Messrs. Porter, Post, and Astnn Key. In Mr. Porter's case, the aneurism occupied the whole of the posterior inferior triangle of the neck, being nearly six inches broad ; as no pulsation was traceable in the vessels beyond the aneurism, it ■n-as useless to attempt the ligature on the distal side. On exposing the innominata, that vessel was found to be diseased, and it was not thought desirable to pass the ligature round it. In conse- quence of the exposure of the artery, however, the pulsation in the tumor gradually diminis!iod,'aiid at last ceased entirely, its bulk also becoming less. In Mr Key s case, in which it was impracticable to pass the ligature, it was found after death that the innominata was diseased, being dilated im- mediately after its origin into an oblong tumor which occupied the whole of the artery It is re markahle, that in this case, as in Mr. Porter's mllammation seems to have taken place iu the artery in conseriuence of the necessary handlius to which It was subjected, and that the pulsation in the sac consequently diminished. The failure in dchgating the artery appears then to be less dis- astrous in its consef[uencos than success; for of the three cases just referred to, one was cured of tlic disease, the artery being obliterated by ad- hesive indaiumatioii; and, in another, an attempt to set up tins action appears to have been made