i HYPER.EMIA. however executed; and lie thinka that the sole j chance of stopping the progress of the disease de- ' penJs upon an endeavour being made in its very commencement to improve the general health, though he owns that success is to be regarded as a rare occurrence. The same author has no faith in any local treatment; and when the disease is advanced, he considers the extirpation of the eye the only rational expedient, though precarious in in its result. (Lehre vo?i den Auqenkr. b. ii. p, 628, 6-29.) The main point on which Scarpa differs from Beer, is that respecting the effects of discharging the humours of the eye; a practice which the for- mer represents as useful, even in cases where the hydrophthalmia combines an accumulation both of the aqueous and vitreous humours. In former times, says Scarpa, paracentesis of the eyeball was gicatly extolled. Nuck, one of the promoters of this operation, punctured the eye with a trocar, exactly in the centre of the cornea. {De Dud, Odd. Aquos. p. 120.) It has since been thought better to puncture the sclerotica about two lines from the junction of this membrane with the cor- nea, that such a small quantity of the vitreous humour may be more easily discharged at the same time with the aqueous, as may be deemed adequate to effect a diminution of the eyeball. According to Scarpa, paracentesis of the eye, performed so as merely to discharge the humours, can never be a means of curing dropsy of the eye, unless the puncture made with the trocar excite inflammation and suppuration, and afterwards a concretion of the membranes composing the eye^ ball. Scarpa condemns the plan of making a circular incision through the sclerotica, as being constantly followed by the most aggravated symptoms, par- ticularly frequent haemorrhages, an accumulation f gruraous blood at the bottom of the eyeball, vehement inflammation of the eye, eyelids, and head, obstinate vomitings, convulsions, delirium, nnd the most imminent danger. Such modern urgeons, as have faithfully published the results f their practice on this point, namely, M. Louis Mem. de VAcad. de Cliir. t. xiii. p. 289, 290); Marchan {Journal de Med. de Paris, Janvier 1770; Sur deux Exophihalmies, ou Grosseurs cordre \'ature du Globe de VCEil) and Terras {Ibidem, Uars 1776; Sur VHydrophilialmie), have in- !^nuously declared that, after performing the cir- iilar recision of dropsical eyes in the sclerotic, they had the greatest motives for repenting of what they had done. Scarpa prefers making a circular section, about three lines in breadth, at the summit or centre of the cornea of the dropsical pye, a« directed by Celsus for staphyloma. The safest and quickest treatment consists in the entire removal of the eye.— See article Evk (excision of the eye). C. Dader. Consult Mauchart, De Paracentesi Oculi; Tub ] 744. Conradi, Handbuch der Pathol. Anat. p. 523 J''icti.r, in Hufeland's .lourn. iv. b. p. 208. Flaqani Collezione d'Osservazioni, t. i. obs. 43. Gendron Mnl dcs Yeux, t. ii. Louis, in MCm. de I'Acad. de Cliir. t. V. 4to. Marchan, in Journ. de M^d. t. xxxii |i. 65. Terras, Op. cit. vol. xlv. p. 239. Scarpa -idle principal! Malattie defjli Occlii, cap. 13. V. P l!('(;er, De Hydrophthalmia. Ilaller, Disp. Chir. i" :>75. A. Sarwei/, De Paracentesi Oculi in Hydroph- thalmia et Amblyopia Senum ; Ilaller, Disp. Chir i. 587. Tub. 1744. liencdict, De Morbis Humoris Vitrei. Lvke, JJiss, de Hydrophthalmia j Jan. J803. Richler, Anfangsprr. b. ili. p. 392, &c. GOt." 1795, Beer, Lehre von. den 'Augenkr. b. ii. Wien, 1817. Wardrop Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, chap. 18 and 40, vol. ii. svo. Lend. 1818. A. Smith, in Edin. Med. Journ. No. 73. B Travers Synopsis of the Diseases of the Kye, p. 195 n 200' &c. Svo. Lond. 1820. IF. Lawrence'On Dis of tha Eye, p. 653, !8V0. Lond. 1833. R. Middlemore On Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 475, 8vo. Lond. 835 - and' W. Mackenzie, on Dis. of the Eye, ed. 2, p. 627—633 8vo. Lond. 1835. Vr. StctJwag von Carson (Dia ophthalmologie vom naturwissenschaftlischen Stand- puncte, &c. 1855). HYDROPS. (From u'Sco/j, water.) A dropsy, or morbid accumulation of water. For hydraps ar- iieuli,i-e{er to Joints, Dlseasks of ; for hydrops oculi, see the foregoing article. With regard to- hydrops pectoris, hydrothorax, or dropsy of the chest, as it is altogether a medical case, an ac- count of its symptoms, and treatment will hardly be expected in tin's Dictionary. The only concern, which a surgeon has with the disease, is being oc- casionally required to make an opening for the discharge of the water. (See Paracentesis Tho- racis.) HYDROSARCOCELE. (From ffScop, water ; o-apf, flesh ; and ktjA.??, a tumor.) A sarcocele' attended with a collection of fluid in the tunica, vaginalis. HYMEN, IMPERFORATE. The incon- veniences brought on by such a cause, and the. mode of relief, are explained in the article Vagina. A continuation of the hymen over a part of the orifice of the meatus urinarius may produce great pain and difficulty in making water, and symp- toms which may gave rise to suspicion of stone For a case illustrating the truth of this observation' see Warner's Cases in Surgery, p. 276, ed 4 HYOID BONE, Fractuke of; see Larynx. [HYPEREMIA. (From STrep and a7/ta.) Ex- cess of blood. Congestion.—Gewtai fulness of blood has almost uniformly been designated " plethora " and is treated of under that head in the present work. We restrict the term " hypertemia " to ex- cess of blood in a part of the body, affecting princi- pally the capillaries and smaller vessels, which ara at the same time dilated. To this must be added when used synonymously with " congestion," re- tardation of the blood-current and disordered'func- tion._ The term does not necessarily imply any qualitative deterioration; but hypera;miais a very frequent consequence both of blood diseases and of impressions made primarily on the nervous system. The vital fluid can remain but a very short time indeed in a congested part without undergoing important changes. Hypertemia has been distinguished as active meehcmical, and passive. It is also either transi' tory or aUding. Any part of the body may be come hyporoimic, the blood in its general mass being normal as respects quantity and quality or in excess, or deficient, or when the proportions' of Its nutrient prmciples are augmented or diminished or It is in any other way diseased. * Hyperaimia occurs physiologically during the functional activity of organs, as in blushing, and is mduced by all those causes which lead to a healthy determination of blood. The excitement of lac- tation produces enlargement of the vessels and an increase of the quantity of blood in the mamraaj- the functional activity of the ovaries, uterus testes! and glands generally; of the stomach during diges- tion; of the brain during the operation of the