661 EYE. but particular care is to be taken afterwards to wash the eye well with some lukewarm mucila- ginous coUyrium, until the irritation, caused by the chemical eft'cct of such foreign bodies, has been completely obviated. The removal of foreign bodies of the second class is usually attended with more difficult}', because the)', as well as those of the third class, more frequently produce a violent and obstinate spasmodic closure of the eyelids, and are seldom loose, being generally fixed in the cornea. How- ever, when they happen to be detached, they may be extracted in the same way as small round smooth extraneous bodies, except that the stroking of the eyelid with the finger should be omitted, not only as useless, but likely to press any of these substances, which are of a pointed shape, into the loose conjunctiva, so as to injure the eye itself, which would otherwise not be hurt. The nibs of pens, the parings of the nails, and small hard- winged insects, when lodged in a depression of the cornea, or white of the eye. Beer says, may be easily dislodged by means of a small silver spa- tula, or a probe. Other foreign bodies of tlie second class are not only fixed in a depression, but even penetrate more deeply than the conjunc- tiva; and, in old subjects in particular, they often insinuate themselves into the loose cellular tissue under the conjunctiva, partly in consequence of the convulsive motions of the eyeball and eyelids, and partly by reason of the attempts made to loosen them. Hence, they frequently become situated a great way from the place of their entrance, and are completely covered by the con- junctiva. But, even when they lie immediately in the wound, they are so intimately connected with the subjacent loose cellular tissue, that every attempt to^ remove them with forceps is not only unavailing, but hurtful to the eye, inasmuch as the injury is thereby rendered deeper. They may be taken away with facility, however, when lifted up with a pair of small forceps, and cut away with a pair of scissors, together with the piece of cellu- lar membrane, with which they are directly con- nected. If such extraneous substance should be actually underneath the sclerotic conjunctiva, Beer recommends the eyelids to be well opened, and the eye to be brought into a position, in which the part of the conjunctiva, covering the foreign body, is rendered tense, when an incision is to be made with a lancet down to the extraneous sub- stance, which is to be taken hold of, and removed with a pair of scissors, the assistant being careful to keep hold of the eyelids during tlic operation. On the other hand, when the foreign body is ac- tually lodged between the layers of the cornea. Beer considers tliat its extraction may be best accomplished with a lancet-pointed couching- noedle. But, whatever instrument be used, its point must 1)0 passed witii great caution closely and obliquely under the foreign body; and care must be taken not to introduce it too deeply, lest the anterior chamber bo opened, which niny rea- dily happen in young subjects; and when it does, the aqueous humour flows out, and the coriu^a becomes so flaccid, that the removal of the extra- neous substance is quite impracticable, before the puncture has healed, and the anterior chamber is again distended. The removal of foreign bodies of tlio third class mostly demands very great caution, first, because. as Beer "observes, no particles of them should be allowed to remain in the eye, which without the utmost vigilance is apt to be, the case; and se- condly, because the wound of the eye, already considerable, should not be made larger than can be avoided. The extraction of small bits of glass is particularly difficult, as they cannot be seen, but must be found out entirely by the feelings of the patient, or the tacius erwlitus of the surgeon, assisted with a probe. When, in this way, a par- ticle of glass is .detected. Beer directj us to take hold of it with a pair of forceps, and cut it away with scissors. The place, from which it has been removed, must then be carefully probed, in order that no other fragment may be left in it. According to the same autlior, pieces of iron and steel, which strike the eye so forcibly as to enter it, as well as all other fragments of metals, which are readily oxidated, should be as carefully removed as bits of glass; for the more easily they combine with oxj'gen, and the longer they remain, the more brittle they become, and the more apt are minute particles to be left in the eye, especially in the cornea. A speck on the part of this membrane where the splinter has lodged, is the least serious consequence of such an event. When fragments of steel, which have quite a black appearance, remain fixed in the cor- nea several hours, it is found, after their removal, that the whole circumference of the depression, from which they have been extracted, is of a reddish-brown colour, produced by the rust left behind, and firmly adhering to the cornea. Every particle of rust must be carefully removed with a couching-needle, or else a permanent speck will ensue; but caution must be used not to puncture the anterior chamber. The extraction of particles of lead and gunpowder is generally difficult, as they have mostly been projected with great force against the eyelids, so as to produce not only a great deal of spasm, but instantaneous swelling of those parts. Hence, Beer says that they should commonly be taken hold of with forceps, and cut away. Particles of cantharides are easily removed with a small silver spatula, or the end of an eye- probe; but their violent chemical effect must be obviated by frequently applying to the part a little fresh butter, touching it with a camel-hair pencil, dipped in diluted liquor anmionia;, or dropping into the eye lukewarm mucilaginous collyria. The attempt to wash particles of quicklime, mortar, &c. from the eye. Beer says, only has the effect of rendering their violent chemical opera- tion more difl'uscd, and ho recommends them to be taken out by means of a fine hair-pencil, dipped in fresh butter, or oil. This is the only way of immediately counteracting their chemical effect and, after their extraction, the application of unc- tuous substances to the part should still bo cnnti- luied. Tho stings of small insects, wlicn lodged in the sclerotic conjunctiva, are often very difficult of detection; luit they are more readily "seen on tho skin of the eyelids. Beer directs" us to remove them with a pair of forceps, or a coucliing-necdle and then to have recourse to means calculated to diminish inllammation, which, in these cases,always begins on the first occurrenco of the .accident. Snuill shots, lodged in the loose cellular texture of the conjunctiva, must be cut out. In general u u >'J '