AMAUROSIS. 42 re-established. A woman, who (as this author ac- quaints us) had lost her sight, in consequence of a sudden suppression of the menses, did not recover it again till three months after the return of the menstrual discharge, not\vithstandin{K(the trial of every sort of evacuation. He also tells us of an- other woman, who had been blind half a year, and did not menstruate, and to whose external parts of generation leeches were several times applied. As often as the leeches were put on (says Richter) the menses in part recommenced; and, as long as they made their appearance, which was seldom above two hours, the woman always enjoyed a degree of vision. {Anfangsgr. der Wimdarxn. b. iii. p. 443.) . . For the amaurosis arising from suppression ol the menses, Scarpa recommends leeches to the pudenda, bathing the feet in warm water, and afterwards exhibiting an emetic, and laxative pills, made of rhubarb and tartrate of antimony, com- bined with gummy and saponaceous substances. If these means fail in establishing the menstrual discharge, ho says great confidence may be placed in a stream of electricity, conducted from the loins across the pelvis, in every direction, and thence repeatedly to the thighs and feet. For the amaurosis proceeding from the stoppage of habitual bleeding from piles, Scarpa recommends leeches and fomentations to the hemorrhoidal vems, then an emetic, and afterwai-ds the same opening pills. {Ossermzioni sulle prmcipali Malattie degli Occld, cap. 19.) ^ The principle on which Mr. Lawrence directs the treatment, is that of putting a stop to vascular excitement, with the view of preventmg the per- manent injury of altered structure and impaured function of the retina. Hence he is a zealous ad- vocate for the antiphlogistic treatment in the early stage of amaurosis. "But," says he "if this treatment be not found to remove the change which has been produced in the retina, we must have recourse to mercury, which appears to be as decidedly beneficial in these cases as in iritis or general internal inflammation. The remark which I made respecting the use of mercury m those affections, applies also to the present case, namely, that its good effect mainly depends upon the promptitude with which it is employed, ihe alterative form is insufficient; we give it with the view of aiTesting inflammation in the structure, which is the very seat of vision ; that structure is easily changed by the inflammatory process; our only remedy is to push the mercury m a decidei manner, and if we do so, we shall put a stop to the affection." When the amaurotic affection de- pends on vascular plenitude of the retina, and that peculiar action of its capillary system_ of vessels which is disposed to bring on organic changes, Mr. Middlemore is also an advocate for mercury, which, for the purpose of stopping such action and producing an absorption of effused or deposited matter, he directs to be employed freely, so as to affect the mouth. But, ho observes, if the amau- rotic symptoms are not at all relieved when the cunis have become sore, its use is not to be conti- nued • on the contrary, if any improvement occur, the constitution should be kept under the influence nf mercury by the administration of two grams of the submirhvte with a small quantity of opium, once or twice a day. . (^l ^^"'f «'r;;i!!.::^!:f:i'-£l'!.' cury, if no amendment take place directly the gums are sore, he advises the patient to be kept at least two or three weeks well imder the influence of tlie medicine ; for, unless this be done, it has not had a fair trial. When the antiphlogistic treatment, and a fair trial of mercury have failed, Mr. Lawrence contents himself with recommending such manage- ment as is most conducive to general health ; as a residence and frequent exercise in a pure air; plain nutritious diet; mild aperients, with the occa- sional use of an active purgative; and repose of the affected organ. He mentions also a trial of a seton, or repeated blisters behind the ears, or at the side or back of the neck. As already stated, however, he does not wish it to be supposed that all amaurotic patients require to be bled and sali- vated. Amaurosis, he says, often comes on in a slow and very insidious manner in persons of en- feebled constitution ; the organ suffers from ha- bitual excessive exertion at the same time that the general powers are depressed by residence in con- fined dwellings, bad air, sedentary occupations, unwholesome diet, costiveness, and the other inju- rious influences of such causes. If we should see a thin, pallid, and feeble woman, who had destroyed her health by close confinement to needle-work, and whose eyes were beginning to fail, the same active measures would by no means be admissible. We should empty the alimentary canal, perhaps take a little blood by cupping, or by leeches to the temples, and then use mercury in the alterative form, together with mild aperients. A few grams of Plummer's pill may be given every night, or every second night, and the bowels may be kept open with electuary, castor oil, or rhubarb and magnesia, taken occasionally. The blue pill may be taken in combination with aloes or colocynth. It may be necessary, says Mr. Lawrence, to per- severe with the mercury, slowly increasing the dose until a slight influence is visible m the mouth. A nutritious but temperate diet, good au- and ex- ercise, and repose of the afl'ected organ, are im- portant auxiliaries, and a succession of moderate sized blisters may be advantageously combined with these means. Thus, observes Mr. Lawrence, the same principles regulate our treatment ; but it is modified in degree, according to the violence ot the svTiiptoms, and the patient's strength. In the latter description of cases, after mild antiphlogistic means and clearing the alimentarj- canal, lie admits that it may be expedient to combme tonics with aperients, or rhubarb with bark, calumba, or cascarilla ; and to allow a little porter and wine. One case of temporary palsy of the retina from over-excitement,mentioncd by Mr. Travers, yielded to blistering the forehead, and a gentle salivation excited by calomel joined with opium. {Synopsis, p 164.) Another case, brought on by tlie use ot telescopes and sextants, gave way to a copious bleeding, brisk purging with jalap and calome, blisters to the temples, and a course of mercury. (Op. cit. p. 166.) . . , r When the disease does not originate from the stoppage of any natural or habitual discharge of Mood and does not yield to the evacuating plan, Kiciter thinks the surgeon justified in concluding hat the paternaturally dilated vessels ha^^ o regained their proper tone and diameter and that toxical corroborant remedies l\»rt.c"larly old water, ought to be employed. In this kind of / • o rlnv (R Midd umore on Vu. of the water, ought to oo i.u.pv.j— - i,,,i,;„ir ^^™Ji/p;y277rinBtead of discontinuing mer-1 cas is an advocate for washnig and bathing