595 EAR. dues the office of the external e.ir. {Prixde VAcad. Itoyulede C/iir. t. ix. p. 120, edit. i2mo.) Wounds are not the only causes by which the external ear may be lost : its separation is some- times the consequence of ulceration, and sometimes the effect of the bites of horses and other animals. In cold climates, it is frequently frozen, and after- wards attacked with intlamniiition and sloughing. When the external ear is not totally separated from the head, the surgeon should not despair of being able to accomplish the reunion of it. This attempt should always be made, however small a connection the part may have with the skin; for, in wounds of this kind, the efforts of surgery have occasionally succeeded beyond all expectation. Wounds of the external ear, whatever may be their size and shape, do not require different treat- ment from that of tiie generality of other wounds. The reunion of the divided part is the only indica- tion, and it may be in most instances easily fulfilled by means of methodical dressings. Such writers as have recommended sutiu-es for wounds of the ear (says Leschevin), have founded this advice upon the difficulty of applying to the part a bandage, that will keep the edges of the wound exactly together. The cranium, however, affords a firm and equal surface, against which the ex- ternal ear may be conveniently fixed. Certainly, it is not more easy to secure dressings on the nose than on the ear; and yet cases are recorded, in which the cartilaginous part of the nose was wounded, and almost entirely separated, and the union was effected without the aid of sutures. (See Mem. de M. Pibtac sur I'Ahus des Sutures, in Man. de VAcad. de Cliir. torn, iii.) In wounds of the ear, then, we may conclude that sutures are generalU- useless and unnecessary. As examples may occur, however, in which the wound may be so irregular and considerable as not to admit of being accurately united, except by this means, it should not be absolutely rejected. An enlightened surgeon will not abandon altoge- ther any curative plans; he only points out their proper ntilit}', and keeps them within their right limits. When sticking plaster, simple dressings, and a bandage that makes moderate pressure, appear insufficient for keeping the edges of a wound of the ear in due contact, the judicious practitioner will not hesitate to employ sutures. When a bandage is applied to the external ear, it should only be put on with moderate tightness, since much pressure gives considerable uneasiness, and may induce sloughing. In order to prevent these disagreeable effects, Leschevin advises us to fill the space behind the ear with soft wool or cotton, against which the part may be compressed without risk. (Op. cit. p. 119.) Baron Boyer remembers a medical student, who was compelled by an ulcer on the sacrum to lie for a long time on his side, in which posture the pressure on the ear caused a slough of the anti- heii.x, and after the separation of the dead part, an aperture, large enough to receive the end of the little finger, was left in the pinna or auricle. In the application of sutures to the car, the ancients caution us to avoid carefully the cartilage and to sew only the skin. They were fearful, that pricking the cartilage would make it mortify, "ce fjui est souvetd fois arrive" says Pard. But, not- withslandiug so respectable an authority, as Les- chevin has remarked, the moderns make no .scruple about sewing cartilages. In wounds of the nose, Verduc expressly directs the skin and cartilage to be pierced at once, and the success of the plan is put out of all doubt by a multitude of facts. The same treatment may also be safelj'- extended to the ear. In this section, a few malformations of the ex- ternal ear require notice. Sometimes the orifice of the meatus auditorius is diminished by the tragus, antitragus, and antihelix being depressed into it. Here the excision of these wrongly formed emi- nences has been recommended, as a surer means of perfecting the sense of hearing, than the use of any tube, or dilating instruments. The tragus has been known to project considerably back- wards, and to apply itself most closely over the orifice of the meatus, which was also a mere slit, instead of a round opening. In one case of this description, relief was obtained by the introduction of tubes, calculated to maintain the tragus in its proper position. {Diet, des Sciences Med. t. xxxviii. p. 28.) _ Sometimes the outer ear is entirely wanting. Thus Fritelli has given an account of a child in this condition, whose physiognomy at the same time strongly resembled that of an ape. {Ortescld Giorn. di Med. t. iii. p. 80.) Oberteuffer has also recorded an example of a total deficiency of the auricles in an adult, who yet heard very well. (Stark's Neues ArcUv. b. ii. p. 638. J. F. Meckel, Handbuch der Pathol, Anat. b. i. p. 400. Leipz, 1812.) I remember a child, which was exhibited many years ago in London, as a curiosity; it was en- tirely destitute of external ears, and no vestiges of the meatus auditorii could be seen, these open- ings being completely covered by the common integuments. Yet the child could hear a great deal, thoiijgh the sense was certainly dull and im- perfect. I recollect, that the circumstance of the patient hearing so well as he did, was what ex- cited considerable surprise. I do not recollect, however, at the present time, the degree in which this sense was enj.oyed, and several other circum- stances, such as tile child's age, power of speech, &c. The example is interesting, inasmuch as it proves, that even a deficiency of the auricles, com- bined with an imperforate condition of both ears may be unattended with complete deafness, pro- vided the internal and more essential parts of these organs are sound and perfectly formed. Baron Boyer attended a young man, the lobule of one of whose ears extended in a very inconve- nient manner over the cheek: the redundant por- tion was removed with a pair of scissors, and the wound soon healed. [Less important malformations as of the helix and antihelix, and of the tragus and antitragus, not interfering with the opening into the meatus, are of frequent occurrence, but do not require treatment.] The auricle, not being a very irritable part, is not often inflamed, and when it is so, the alfection IS generally of an erysipelatous character. Portal has seen the part nearly an inch thick; and he takes notice of the prodigious thickness which the lobe of the car sometiiues acquires in women who wear heavy ear-rings, which keep up constant n-ritation. Small encysted ami adipose swellings occasionally grow under the skin of the external car, and dcmmid the same treatment as swellings of the same nature in other situations. « (i 2 (See