PREFACF. vi " As in every species of human science, our highest altainraeuts arc but an approximation towards perfection; so in the science of Surgery, each succeeding year demonstrates that all that is known of the prin- ciples or practice of our art, is but the prelude to still higher exhibitions of science and skill, alike honourable to the profession, and valuable to the cause of humanity. To condense and arrange all the novel and interesting facts which clinical experience is furnishing, and upon which alone the edifice of true science can be erected, is a task worthy of the immense labour which Mr. Cooper has bestowed on each succeed- ing reprint of his Dictionary, and one to which he has proved himself entirely adequate. The extensive and multiplied resources to which he has access, furnish him with facilities possessed by few; and in availing himself of these, he has exhibited an industry, and, for the most part, an impartiality, worthy of all praise." The task that has devolved upon the present Editor is to embody in the Eighth Edition of the work thus characterised by its illustrious author, all that has been subsequently achieved in the art and science of Surgery. Since the names of Liebig, Mulder, Eobin, and Verdeil have appeared amongst us, chemistry, especially animal chemistry, has not only made rapid strides, but, as regards its influence on the study of morbid products of either a solid or fluid nature, may be considered almost a new science. The microscope, in the hands of Schwann and Schleiden, has led to the discovery of cell development, unveiling to us the important part played by the nucleated cell in the vitiil functions of secretion and excretion, and the further knowledge that the blood itself is composed^f nucleated cells, movable in the liquor sanguinis, and con- veyed by the circulation to every organ and tissue in the body. The vast improvements in histological and pathological anatomy, introduced by Eokitansky, Paget, and Virchow, have entirely altered our notions of healthy and morbid growths. ■ The discovery of the laws of endosmosis and exosmosis, by Dutrochet, added to our improved knowledge of the peripheral terminations of the whole vascular system, have led to the subversion of the Hunterian doctrine of absorption and deposition by the open mouths of the absorbents and arteries. The gradual introduc- tion of humoral pathology, and the equally gradual extinction of pure solidism; and lastly, the new views in the treatment of inflammatory diseases by stimulants, as advocated by the late Dr. Todd and others, perhaps too readily received and adopted by many of the rising genera- tion of medical men, to the exclusion of the heroic remedies of repeated bleedings and salivations, — hitherto too zealously and too indiscrimi- nately had recourse to,—have all had a powerful influence in modifying the opinions held by surgeons of the present day with regard to the nature and treatment of most surgical diseases. The necessity that these new lights should be made to pervade more or less the pages of this dictionary, and that the prolific and teeming professional literature of the last quarter of a century should be con- sulted on every branch of Surgery, rendered it physically impossible that the Editor should himself revise each separate article. He has accordingly associated with him in his editorial labours many eminent and able writers, for the most part already distinguished in the dc-