HEAD, INJURIES OF THE, of the organ, as the terra concussion implies. Du- puytren recognises three degrees of concussion xne hrst degree is characterised by dizziness, tin- nitus aurium, closure of the eyelids, weakness of the lower limbs and general lassitude, a remarkable incapacity for exertion, and a staggering gait. In the second degree there is a sudden loss of consciousness and memory of recent events, pro stration of body, trembling of the muscles, fre quently spasms, involuntary discharge of feece and urine, loss of volition, of sight, hearing, smell, and taste: the respiration and circulation nevertheless continue. At the instant of concus- sion the heart palpitates; the respiration, at first altered and irregular, soon resumes its natural re- gularity with such slight noise and movement of tlie chest that the patient appears not to breathe, The eyelids are closed, the levator palpebrae having lost its power of action. The pupil dilated and insensible to light; the general sensi bility is blunted, but not extinguished. Occasion- ally there is vomiting. In the first degree the disease lasts only two or three seconds; in the lat ter condition its efi'ects are felt for two or three days or more. The patient remains in any position in which he is placed, and appears plunged in a deep easy sleep, without any movement of the pectoral re- gions : the face is pale, the eyelids paralysed; the pupil is insensible on friction of the eyeball; it is sometimes intolerant of light, but does not con- tract. The patient swallows only when food is passed into the pharynx, otherwise the food re- mains in the mouth. The movements of the heart are almost imperceptible; the pulse is slow, re- markably compressible, but regular; digestion is arrested; there is often incontinence of urine and fsBces. It requires frequent hard pinches of the skin to excite the retraction of the limbs. These effects, at first apparent enough, diminish by de- grees; the movements of the limbs on pinching give evidence of returning sensibility, the eyes be- come fatigued by the action of the light, and the patient's hand is held up between the eyelids and the light; the patient changes his position, his speech returns, he asks for food, and afterwards relapses into his former lethargy for twenty-four hours or more; the intellectual faculties are re- stored, but he is still incapable of continuing his at tention so as to support a conversation, but he gives a phrase which he is imable to complete; in fact, his movements excited by a powerful voluntary effort fail, and his words slick halfway. After four or five days volition is re-established, but there still remains a remarkable weakness, an incapacity for prolonged conversation and read- ing and for all former mental actions; he begins a letter which he is unable to finish; his digestion is somewiiat embarrassed; weakness in the act of progression and debility of the genera- tive system continue for some time: we have known It to remain three or four months and give rise to considerable annoyance. There is frequently a loss of memory of proper names and things, but after some time this faculty is restored. In the third degree of concussion, nearly all the patients die immediately. They are at once de- prived of all sense, of every intellectual function, and of all power of volition. There are fre- quently convulsive movements, involuntary dis- ciiarge of fteces and urine; the pulse sinks in power and frequency, and for a short time is re- suscitated; the respiration is weakened and gradu- ally ceases; and in the course of a few seconds life IS extinguished altogether. {Dupuylren, Le- fons Orales de Clinique Chirurgicale, p. 242.) An analysis of the symptoms of concussion proves that, in its most simple form, those parts ot the cerebral system in which the power of volition and sensation reside, are especially af- fected; that in the more severe forms of the dis- ease not only are volition and sensation more profoundly influenced, but all those functions which are regulated by the true spinal system of nerves are also impaired; whilst in the extreme degrees death takes place almost momentarily, from the complete annihilation of all nervous power as a consequence of extensive lesion of the brain itself, or some other part in close sympathy with this organ, Mr. Abernethy has with great truthfulness ar- ranged the phenomena of concussion under three heads, which he considers characteristic of three stages of the disease. He says: " The whole train of symptoms follow- ing a concussion of the brain may, I think, be properly divided into three stages. The first is that of insensibility and derangement of the bodily powers, which immediately succeed the accident. While it lasts, the patient scarcely feels any in- jury that may be inflicted on him. His breathing is difficult, but generally without stertor; his pulse intermitting, and his extremities cold. But such a state cannot last long; it goes off gradually, and is succeeded by another, which I consider as the second stage of concussion. In this, the pulse and respiration become better, and, though not regularly performed, are sufficient to maintain life and to difiiise warmth over the extreme parts of the body. The feeling of the patient is now so far restored that he is sensible, if his skin be pinched; but he lies stupid and inattentive to slight external impressions. As the effects of concussion diminish, he becomes capable of replj'- ing to questions put to him in a loud tone of voice, especially when they refer to his chief suffering at the time, as pain in the head, &c.: otherwise he answers incoherently and as if his attention could not be excited or was occupied by something else; he is, in short, like a man in a heavy sleep. The concussion of the brain, lastly, produces inflamma- tion of the organ, and this constitutes the third stage, which is the most important of the series of efi'ects proceeding from this cause. " These several stages vary considerably in their degrees and duration; but more or less of each will be found to take place in every instance where the brain has been violently shaken. Whe- ther they bear any certain proportion to each other or not, I do not know : indeed this will de- pend upon such a variety of circumstiinces in the constitution, the injury, and the after-treatment, that it must be difficult to determine." That many cases of severe concussion pass through the three successive stages just described, there can be no doubt; but in by far the greater number of simple cases the first only is apparent, as the change from this to a perfect recovery takes place at once, and the only sign of any previous injury is indicated by a slight pain in the liead, winch, however, speedily passes off. It is the gra- "unl transition of symptoms which renders the