thinks, is alwaj-s in the first instance impacted, and the second lesion of the bone is the necessarj' result of the forcible impaction of the broken cervix into the shaft of the femur. It depends, he thinks, princi- pally upon the violence with which the injury has been inflicted, whether tlie neck of the bone shall remain impacted or not. If the force has not been very great, the neck of the femur is wedged in between the trochanters, and one or both of these processes are split off from the shaft, while, if the periosteum and surrounding fibrous structures have not been injured, these broken portions of the trochanters are still held firmly in their places, and the impacted cervix does not become loosened; but if the force has been more considerable, the trochan- ters are not ar\\y broken from the shaft of the femur, but are so far displaced and separated from their connexion with the soft parts, that the cavity, into which the superior fragment has been re- ceived, is destroyed, and the impacted cervix, thus set free, no longer opposes the ascent of the inferior fragment, and the case then presents the character of the ordinary extra-capsular fracture, with great shortening of the limb. (/?. W. Smith, On Frac- tures, cjc. p. 17. Dublin, 1847.) Impaction may occur in the intracapsular as well as in the extracapsular fracture, though it is not so frequent as in the latter case, and it is, as Mr. R. W. Smith describes it, a dovetailing toge- ther of the fragments, rather than a true impaction, which usually takes place. In all the examples which he has examined, the head of the bone ap- peared sunk below its natural level, and the upper margin of the head was buried in the cancellated tissue of the neck, while the lower margin of the neck penetrated the reticular structure of the head of the bone. These are precisely the cases in which the very rare event of union by bone is most likely tO' occur.] In general, the degree of shortening when the fracture is within the capsule, I believe, with Mr. Smith and others,, often depends upon the extent to which the fibrous reduplications have been torn. According to this gentleman's investigations, the degree of shortening, when the fracture is within the capsular ligament, varies from a quarter of an inch to one inch ; when external to the capsule, from one inch and a half to two inches and a half. At the same time, the great differences in the direction of the solution of continuity must have, as Diipuytren has admirably explained, vast influence upon the degree of retraction, as well as upon the rotatory displacement of the limb. (See Clin. Chir. t.ii. p. 113.) The action of the muscles drawing upward the lower end of the fracture,and the weight of the trunk in propelling downward the pelvis and upper end of the fracture, are the two causes of the shortening of the limb. In general a slight effort sufRccs for the restoration of the natural length of the limb; but the shortness recurs almost as soon as the ex- tension ceases. "This evidence of the nature of the accident continues," as Sir A. Cooper correctly remarks, " until the muscles acquire a fixed con- traction which enables them to resist any exten- sion which is not of the most powerful kind." (Sunjical Essin/s, part ii. p. 31.) Goursault, Saliatier, and Dupuytren found that sometimes the shortening of the member did not take place till a long while after the accident. Dupuytren refers to examples in which several hours, and even from FRACTURE. 737 two to thirty days, elapsed, before any displace- ment of the fragments took place, and which was then produced either by the patient's own move- ments, or by the surgeon's examination of the part. {Clin. Chir. t. ii. p. 96.) In opposition to the com- mon belief that the limb is shortened, Baron Larrey asserts that the member is at first actually lengthened. {Journ. Complem. t. viii. p. 99.) This statement I have never seen confirmed, and it is contradicted by daily experience. And, to prove how widely Larrey differs fi'om Sir A. Cooper, the following passage will suffice. " In order to form a still more decided judument of this accident (says the latter writer), after the patient has been examined in a recumbent posture, let him be directed to stand by his bedside, supported by an assistant, so as to bear his weight upon the sound limb. Immediately he does this the sur- geon observes most distinctly the shortened state of the injured leg, the toes resting on the ground, but the heel not reaching it, the everted foot and knee, and the diminished prominence of the hip." {Surgical Essays, part ii. p. 34.) The lessened projection of the trochanter major arises from its not being supported by the neck of the bone, as it always is in the natural state of the parts. A swelling is observable at the upper and front part of the thigh, always proportioned to the retraction, of which it appears to be an effect. The projection of the great trochanter is almost effaced. Directed upwards and backwards, this eminence becomes approximated tO' the crest of the ilium ; but, if pushed in the opposite direc- tion, it readily yields ; and when-'it has arrived at its natural level, the patient becomes capable of moving his thigh. The knee is a little bent. Abduction of the limb always occasions acute pain, and it is noticed by Sir A.Cooper, that the rotation inwards is par- ticularly painful, because the broken extremity of the bone then rubs against the capsular ligament. (Vol. cit. p. 33.) If, while the hand is placed on the great trochanter, the limb is rotated on its axis, this bony projection may be felt revolving on itself, as on a pivot, instead of describing, as in the na- tural state, the segment of a circle, of which the neck of the femur is the radius. This symptom, which was first particularly noticed bj' Desanlt, is very manifest wlien the fracture is situated at the base of the neck; less so when at its middle ; and it is not very perceptible when the breach is near the head of the bone. la the rotatory motions, the lower fragment rubbing against the upper one, produces a distinct crepitus', which, however, is not an invariable symptom. In fact, as Sir A. Cooper has explained, it is not discoverable while the patient is lying upon his back with the limb short- ened ; but if the leg be drawn down so as to bring the limbs to the same lengtli, and rotation be then performed, especially inwards, the crepitus is some- times observed, in consequence of the broken ends of the bone being thus brought into contact. {On Dislocations, Sj^c. p. 121.) It appears to Mr. Amesbury that the liead of the bone moves so readily in the acetabulum, " that the least impetus, even through the periosteum and reflected membrane (supposing them to be entire) will cause it to move sinuiltaneously with the shaft ; and, if it should do so in the same relative proportion, crepitus cannot be felt. If crepitus bo not elicited by bending the limb upon the pelvis, 3 B