184 ANEURISM Home has observed, this circumstance has never been satisfactorily explained ; and, what is rather curious, in many instances of this disease, the patients have been coachmen and postillions. Morgagni found aneurisms of the aorta most fre- quent in guides, post-boys, and other persons who sit almost continually on horseback ; a fact, which he imputes to the concussion and agitation to which such persons are exposed. Some allusion to this subject has already been made in the foregoing pages. Whether an explanation of the frequency of popliteal aneurisms can be correctly referred to the force with which the blood must be impelled against the bend of the artery when the knee is in a state of flexion, seems questionable, though it is on a similar principle that the great frequency of aneurisms of the curvature of the aorta is at- tempted to be solved. (Home, in Trans, for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, vol. i. &c.; and Monro,inEd. Med.Essays,yo\. v.) Were this the only, or even the principal cause, surely one would have reason to expect aneurisms to be •nt least as frequent in the axilla, and in the bend of the elbow, as in the ham. Popliteal .ineurism was once supposed to arise from a weakness in the coats of the arterj', independently of disease. If this were true, we might reasonably conclude, that, except, at the dilated part, the vessel would be sound. Then the old practice of opening the sac, tying the artery above and below it, and leaving the bag to suppurate and heal up, would naturally present itself. As the arterial coats were found to be altered in structure higher up than the tumor and the artery immediately above the sac, sel- dom united when tied, but, when the ligature came away, the patient was destroyed by hemor- rhage, Mr. Hunter concluded, that some disease affected the coats of the vessel, before the actual occurrence of aneurism. Dissatisfied with Hal- ler's experiments on frogs, showing that weakness alone could give rise to aneurism, he tried what would happen in a quadruped, whose vessels were very similar in structure to the human. Having denuded above an inch of the carotid artery of a dog, and removed its external coat, he dissected off the other coats, layer after layer, till what re- mained was so thin, that the blood could be seen through it. In about three weeks the dog was killed, when the wound was found closed over the artery, which was neither increased, nor diminished m size It being conjectured that the prevention _ of aneurism, perhaps, arose from the parts being immediately laid down on the weakened portion of the artery. Sir E. Home stripped off the outer laj'ers of the femoral artery of a dog, placed lint over the exposed part of the vessel to keep it from imiting to the sides of the wound, and in six weeks killed the animal, and injected the artery, which was neither enlarged nor diminished, its coats having regained their natural thickness and appearance. These experiments strengthened Mr. Hunter's helief, that aneurismal arteries are diseased ; that the morbid affection frequently extends a good ■way from the sac along the vessel ; and that the cause of failme, in the old operation, arose from tving a diseased artery, which was incapable of uniting before the li(?ature separated. These re- flections led him to propose taking up the artery in the anterior part of tlie thigh, at some distance from the diseased portion, so as to diminish the risk of hemorrhage, and be enabled to get at the vessel again, in case it should bleed. The stream of blood into the sac being stopped, he concluded that the sac and its contents would be absorbed, and the tumor gradually disappear, so as to ren- der any opening of it unnecessary. The first operation of this kind ever done was performed on a coachman, by Mr. Hunter, in St. George's Hospital, December, 1785. An incision was made on the anterior and inner part of the thigh, rather below its middle, which wound was continued obliquely across the inner edge of the sartorius muscle, and made large, in order to facilitate the performance of whatever might be necessary. The fascia covering the artery v,-as then laid bare, for about three inches, after which the vessel itself could be felt. A cut, about an inch long, was then made through the fascia, along the side of the artery, and the fascia dis- sected off. Thus the vessel was exposed. Having disengaged it from its connections by means of the knife and a thin spatula, Mr. Hunter put a double ligature under it with an eye-probe. The double ligature was then cut, so as to make two separate ones. The artery was now tied with both these 'ligatures, but so sligliily as only io com- press the sides together. Two additional ligatures were similarly applied a little lower, with a view of compressing some length of artery so as to make amends for the want of tightness, as it was wished to avoid great pressure on any one part of the vessel. The ligatures were left hanging out of the wound, which was closed with sticking-plaster. On the second day the aneurism had lost one third of its size, and, on the fourth, the wound was every where healed, except where the liga- tures were situated. On the ninth, there was a considerable discharge of blood from the aper- tures of the ligatures, but it ceased on applying a tourniquet, and did not recur. On the fifteenth day after the operation, some of the ligatures came away, followed by a small quantity of mat- ter ; and about the latter end of Januarj-, 1786, the man went out of the hospital, the tumor having become still less. In the course of the spring, abscesses in the vicinity of the cicatrix fo owed, and some pieces of ligature were occasionally dis- charged. In the beginning of Julj', a piece ol ligature, about one inch long, came away, alter which the swelling went off entirely, and the man left the hospital again on the 8th perfectly well, tliere being no appearance of swelling in the_ham. This subject died of a fever in March, 1 /8<, and on dissection, the fermoral artery was found im- pervious from the giving off of the arteria pro- funda down to the place of the ligature and an ossification had taken place for an inch and a half along the course of this part of the vesse . Below this portion the vessel was pervious, till iust before it came to the aneurismal sac, where it was again closed. What remained of the sac was somewhat larger than a hen a egg, and its was somewiiiu liviyt' - ■ - . communication with the popliteal artery ^v^s ob- literated. The rest of the particulars of the dis- section are very interesting. (Sec Trans, fo, the Improvement of Med. and Chir. huoxvkdge, vol. i. ^' S celebrated case completely "tntlished the important fact, that simply taking oft J '^^ f the circulation is sulficient to cure an aneuiism,