HiEMATOCELE. 845 of tlie parts must either have been imperfect, or the tumor cancerous, as happened in two ex- amples which fell under his observation. (See J. Hunter, On Natural Hist. 4'". of the Human Teeth, p. 108.) . GUTTA SERENA. A term said to have been first applied by Actuarius to amaurosis, or the species of blindness arising from a morbid state of the retina, or optic nerve. When the word is now employed, it usuallj- denotes the complete form of amaurosis, or that in which the patient is entirely deprived of the power of discerning objects, or even the difference between light and darkness. (See Amaurosis.) [GUTTjE.—This terra is applied to lotions used in diseases of the eye, which are intended to be dropped on to the surface of the conjunctiva; while collyrium signifies a lotion which is to be applied to the outer surface of the ej-elids, or with which the lids are to be bathed, a small portion only reaching the conjunctiva. (See Collyrium.) The following formula; are in use at the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital in Moorfields :— GuTT^ AciDi Hydrooyanici. — Acidi hy- drucyanici dituti,/. 3j. ; Aquie,/. 3vij. Misce. GuTTvB Akgenti Nitratis.—R. Argenti niiratis, gr. j.; Aqua- destillalte,/. Si- l.iqua. GUTTvB AtROPI^ SULPHATIS.—ft. AtropiiB sul- phatis, gr. ij. ; Aquie destillatie. f. Jj. l.iqua. GuTT^as Belladonna.—ft. LiquorU belladonnm, TtVxx. ; Aqii<e destlllatcE,/. Si- Misce. GvrtM CuPRi SuLPHATis.-ft. Cupri sulphatis, p;r. ij.; Aqute destitlaice,/. Sj. Liqua. GurT.iE Hydrargyri Bichloridi.—ft. Hi/drar- gyri biehloridi, gr. \; Aqua destiUalai, f. Jj. Liqua. GuTTA PoTAssii lODiDi.—ft. PotossH iodidi, gr. iij ; Aqute destillulie,/. 5j. Liqua. GuTT/E ZiNCi SuLPHATis.-ft. Zhici sulphalis, gr. ij.j Aquie destillata, f. Liqua et cola.] H HEMATOCELE (horn aT^o, blood, and /ctjAtj, tumor). A swelling of the testicle, pro- ceeding from, or caused by, blood. The term has sometimes been applied to every kind of extravasation of blood about the scrotum and spermatic cord; but, at the present day, it is usually restricted by British surgeons to a collect tion of blood in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. Extravasation of blood into the cellular tissue of the scrotum and spermatic cord, or within the structure of the testicle itself, Pott, however, ar- ranges with hcematocele. The swelling of a hsema- tocele is generally p3'riform, like hydrocele, but is distinguishable from it by its greater weight and firmness, its want of transparency, its obscure fluctuation, and its cause, which is usuall}' a blow upon the scrotum, or an accidental puncture of some vessels of the testicle, or tunica vaginalis, in tap- ping a hydrocele. When the latter membrane has been long, or much distended by the serous fluid of hj-drncele, it becomes thickened, and its vessels, especially those of its inner surface, enlarged, and even varicose. If one of these lies in the way of the instrument with which the hydrocele is tapped, it is of course wounded, and then the fluid, which is discharged, is deeply tinged with blood. Should the bleeding continue, after the evacuation of the hydrocele, the blood will accumulate in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, and, in the course of two or three hours, the scrotum will again be consider- ably swollen. In one or two examples, I have known haimatocele follow the tapping of a hydro- cele with a lancet, or other sharp-edged instrument. Sir Astley Cooper has noticed this risk, as attend- ing the plan of tapping a hydrocele with a lancet. (On the Strwlure and Dis. of the Testis, p. 212.) A gentleman in the Fleet prison took it into his head to tap his h3'drocele with a kind of long spring-lancet of his own invention : the operation ■was followed by the rapid formation of a very large haimatocele. Sometimes one of the enlarged veins of the tunica vaginalis bursts of itself, after the fluid of a hydrocele has been discharged, and ha;matocele then comes on, as it were, spontaneously. Accord- ing to Sir Benjamin Brodie, htematocele may arise from a diseased condition of the arteries. " This is analogous to that which occurs in the brain, under the form of sanguineous apoplex}-. There is a natural change, which takes place in the arteries of old persons; they become ossified in patches, and ulcerate; and I have known this to lay the founda- tion of heematocele." (See Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. 1831-32, p. 927.) As Sir Astley Cooper observes, hsematocele is often connected with hydrocele, and is aconsequence of it. The latter disease frequently becomes com- plicated with haimatocele from an accidental blow on the tumor, occasioning a rent in the tunica vaginalis. In one case, operated upon by Sir Astley Cooper, this membrane had been ruptured to the extent of between one and two inches. The same distinguished surgeon records the case of a gentleman, in whom ha;matocele arose, not from a blow, but from excessive bodily exertion. (On the Structure., die. of the Testis, p. 213 215.) Of all the causes of hajmatocele, a blow on the scrotum is the most frequent, and especially a blow from the pommel of the saddle in riding. I have known the disease produced, however, by external violence of different kinds; as by a fall against a piece of timber, by which the scrotum was violently struck. After such accidents, the scrotum will suddenly swell to double or treble its natural size. Every swelling, so produced in the scrotum by effused blood, is not invariably a collection of this fluid in the tunica vaginalis; for sometimes the ex- travasation is in the loose cellular tissue external to this membrane. IIa;matocele is to be distin- guished from the latter case, partly by the oblong or pyriform shape of the tiunor, its obscure fluctua- tion, its freedom from the common appearances of ecchymosis, and its presenting itself more on one side of the scrotum than the other; while an ex- travasation of blood in the cellular tissue generally is more diffused, produces a dark blue discolora- tion of the part, and conceals more or less both testes. When hajmatocele occurs in combination witli hydrocele, the blood is mixed with the serous fluid contained in the tunica vaginalis, and partially dissolved in it: if the quantity of blood be small, the solution is complete; but, in the opposite case, coagula are formed, which remain undissolved. {Sir B. lirodic, ib.)