augmentiition of the quantity of blood, or dilata tion of the capillaries, but wherever it is produced by venous obstruction and pressure there is always an increased quantity of blood in the capillaries, and accordingly hyperiEmia. Passive hypertemia appears, more clearly, to be the result of impressions made directly or primarily on the nerves of a part; but that the surgeon may take a comprehensive view of the effects produced on the vascular system in disease, through the agency of the nervous system, certain experimental results have to be borne in mind. Claude Bernard has shown that by destruction of the influence of the sympathetic nerve, as in extirpation of a ganglion or section of a filament, the part which it supplied is rendered hyperaBmic and its tempera- ture elevated. Dr. C. H. Jones repeated the experiments with similar results. On dividing the sympathetic, in the neck of a rabbit, the ear on the same side laecomes immediately distended with blood and quite red, its temperature, as well as that of the whole of the same side of the face, being considerably elevated; and it is a curious fact, not yet explained, that the hypertemia, in these experiments, often subsides in a day or two, but the elevation of temperature may remain even for months. The blood itself which returns from the part so heated has also a higher temperature. Walther, Brown-Sequard, and others, explain this by an increased afflux of blood resulting from paralysis of the blood-vessels, thus assimilating it with the passive hyperaemias. Bernard, on the other hand, thinks it is an active determination of blood, as when a secreting organ is excited from a state of repose to an active discharge of its func- tions. Division or disease of the trifacial nerve destroying its function produces hyperaemia of the various structures of the eye. Direct palsy of the nervi vasorum, whether produced at the periphery or originating in the centres, has the same result. Hyperaemia is said to be induced also by wiiat Mr. Lister has termed "inhibitory action." This gentleman lays it down as a fundamental truth, that one and the same afferent nerve may, accord- ing as it is operating mildly or energetically, either exalt or depress the functions of the nervous centre on which it acts. {Proceedings of ihe Royal Society of London, vol. ix. 1859.) Pie re- jects Pfiiiger's view of the existence of distinct nerve fibres. Dr. C. Handfield Jones has illus- trated this inhibitory action by the visceral hyper- aemias which result from burns, which generally bear a relation to the extent of surface irritated, and are accounted for on tiiis theory in the same way as paralysis of the heart and sudden death ; that is to say, by inhibitory paralysis of the coats of the blood-vessels. Dr. Jones thus explains the inhibitory influence of cold on tlie cutaneous nerves: " The morbid influence, lot ns say in a case of stiff neck, strikes the afferent cutaneous nerves and through them affects the spinal and sympathetic centres, producing in them some abiding alteration in theirmolecuiarconstitution. This state is reflected outwards on the vaso-motor nerves on the same side, occasioning their paralysis, and therewith in- ducing iiyperaimic and disordered nutrition of the part which they influence; in fact, a condition not remote from inflammation. At the same time the motor nerves may be so stimulated, that tonic con- traction of the muscles takes place." {British Medical Journal, Feb. 5, 1059, p. 104.) HYPER.ffiMTA, io7l The experiments here referred to show the direct agency of the nervous system in the circulation of the blood and the production of hyperzemia; and the same thing is seen in the effects of the moral emotions; as in the blush of shame, the suffu- sion of anger, and the pallor of fear, which show that the capillary vessels may be distended and overloaded, or contracted and emptied, by impres- sions made on and reflected from the nervous centres. But passive hypersemias are in innu- merable instances the results of direct impressions made by the blood itself, whether on these cen- tres or on the periphery of the nervous system, by virtue of the quantity of its supply, its qualities, or the materials it contains. AVhen the supply of blood to the brain is defective, the functions of the brain and nerves becoming disordered, the balance of the circulation is deranged, and morbid liyper- asmias are produced in various parts of the sys- tem; persons endowed with great sensibility and irritability, are peculiarly liable thereto. Poi- sons in the blood produce direct palsy of the nervi vasorum, whether in the centres or at the periphery; and thus are produced, according to the views at present entertained by some of the best pathologists, the hyperaemias so common in mucous membranes, with mucous and muco-purulent dis- charges, as in chronic bronchitis, gleet and leucor- rhoea, and the passive hyperaemias of the skin, in- testinal canal, and other structures, occurring in low fevers, and as the effects of poisons; the most remarkable circumstance attending the reception of acrimonies and poisons into the blood being that every substance has its special effect, and that hyperaemias are not produced generally or promiscuously, but specially by each substance in particular structures. (See Toxh^mm.) The phenomena of hypersemia continually under the eye of the surgeon cannot be interpreted cor- rectly without attention to the following circum- stances, _ The various forms frequently°occur in combination; thus,—mechanical pressure or ob- struction combined with general plethora, fre- quently produces hyperaemia, resulting in redema or dropsical effusion, as in pregnancy. The force of gravity, with debility of tiie vessels, combine to produce hyperaemia of the posterior portion of the lungs, in persons restricted to a supine posture — the "engorgement of position." Many diseases described m this Dictionary afford instances of the coexistence of passive hyperemia, from the action of poisons and mechanical liypericmia. Mal-nutrition of the vessels, diminishing their elasticity, with the niechanical influence of gravity, combine to form the hyperajmias of the lower limbs incident to old people and debilitated subjects, producinn- an habitual purplish or violet hue on the surfiices of old scars, and large, livid, flabby granulations in indolent ulcers. The various forms of hyperaemia also frequently occur consecutivelv; nowhere bet ter illustrated than in the eye, where active is so often rapidly succeeded by passive liypera:mia. (See Ophthalmia.) When organs have been exhausted by excess of functional activitv, or by active con gestion or inflammation, particularly in debilitated individuals, after the active disease has been sub dued, the weak and dilated vessels do not readilv resume their natural calibre. One form of hvnei- a=mia also frequently lapses insensibly into another form and there may bo every intermediate dcirree However excited, hyperemia under any of these