140 ANEURISM. billing chloroform, whom, he believes, as was pre- viously stated, to have died of the disease of the heart under which he was labouring, and not from the anaesthetic ; for the heart suddenly ceased to beat whilst he was making a straining effort, as if he were beginning to feel the operation — that of lithotrity. Every medical man who takes the same pains will of course be likely to have the same success as the writer'; and, with the expe- rience which has already been gained, it may rea- sonably be expected that accidents from the use of chloroform will be less likely than heretofore. There is every reason to conclude, therefore, that this agent may be administered with an amount of risk so small as to be hardly appreciable — less indeed than attends many of the most ordinary proceedings in medicine and surgery ; and as severe pain is not without danger, it may not unrea- sonably be expected that chloroform may, in some cases, be an additional source of safety to the pa- tient. The great and direct benefit of the preven- tion of pain by anaesthetics is so universally ad- mitted, that it is imnecessary to do more than allude to it in this place ; some instances have been mentioned above, in which these agents enable the surgeon to effect what otherwise could not be accomplished ; and another advantage which they undoubtedly confer, is that of frequently causing patients to consent at once to receive the benefits of operative surgery, instead of withholding their consent, either altogether, or till the most favour- able period for relief would be passed.] John Snoiv, M.D. ANEURISM, or Aneurysm (from avevpiio-fj-a, a dilatation). The tumors which are formed by a preternatural dilatation of a part of an artery, as well as those swellings which are occasioned by a collection of arterial blood, effused in the cellular tissue, in consequence of a rupture, or wound of the coats of the artery, but having no outlet in the integuments (see Guthrie, On. Dis. of Arteries, p. 40), receive the name of aneurisms. According to these opinions, aneurisms are of two kinds ; the first being termed true, the second spurious, ox false. Some modern writers reckon another form of aneurism, which is said to happen when the external coats of an artery being weakened by mechanical injuiy, or disease, the internal coat protrudes through the breach in the outer coat, so as to form a tumor distended with blood. This case has been denominated the internal mixed aneurism, or aneiirisma herniam arterial sistens. The reality of this form of disease was believed in by Dr. W. Hunter; and some delicate experiments, instituted by Haller on the mesenteric arteries of frogs, appear to have been the first ground of the opinion. However this may be with respect to the experi- ments made on certain animals, I am disposed to consider it fully proved by Mr. J. Hunter, Sir E. Home, and Professor Scarpa, that, in the human subject, an aneurism will notarise from the kind of weakness which is caused by cutting or even strip- ping off the external coat of a sound artery, whether the wound be closed or not. [In the museum of the College of Surgeons there is a preparation, No. 10"42, wiiich is intended to illustrate this pathological condition. It is an aneuiism of the upper part of the arch of the aorta, apparently formed by a hernial protrusion of the iuternal and middle through an opening m the ex- ternal, the tumor being about the size of a walnut and having very thin and transparent coats. On close examination, this preparation appears to me to be of a very doubtful character; the external coat ceases abruptly by a ragged edge at the base of the tumor, and has all the appearance of having been dissected off.] By the term mixed aneurism, Dr. A. Monro, senior, implied the state of a true aneurism, when its cyst had burst, and the blood was diffused in the cadjacent cellular substance; an event which is frequent. Besides these varieties of aneurism, the aneurismal varix, or venous aneurism, and the aneurism by anastomosis, constitute diseases which are usually regarded as cases pertaining to the present subject, though incapable of being com- prised under the ordinary definition of an aneu- rism. An aneurism may then be defined to be a tumor filled with blood, either in a fluid or solid state, usually attended with pulsation, and the sac of which has an opening in it, by which it com- municates with the artery, from which the blood is transmitted into it. Lisfranc defines it, "a tu- mor formed by arterial blood, mid communicating with an artery," and divides all aneurisms into traumatic and spontaneous, according as they hap- pen to be produced by a wound, or disease of the coats of the artery. {De VObliteration des Arteres dans les Aneurismes, p. 6.) Nothing can be more manifest than the fact, that, previously to the discovery of the circulation of the blood, no correct nor valuable opinions could have prevailed respecting the diseases which now go under the name of aneurisms. Indeed, it was not until after the days of Aristotle, that any distinction was made between the swellings of veins and those of iirteries ; such vessels not having been at that early period distinguished from each other. Their differences were first pointed out by Rufus of Ephesus. Down to Galen, however, nothing like consistency was established in the notions respecting aneurism. His opinion was, that all tumors of this nature were produced either by anastomosis, or by rupture: and though he has described their symptoms, he has not informed us of the characters by which each of these cases was distinguishable, one from the other. Paulus jEgineta divides aneurism into two sorts, both of which, he says, are attended with extravasation, and of course with rupture. Vesalius, who first applied anatomy to the investigation of disease, described aneurism arising from the rupture of a dilated aorta; the first specimen, I believe, on record of this form of disease. {Bo7ieius Sepukh. Anat. lib. iv. sect. 2.) The combination of rupture with dilatation of the artery, was afterwards more particularly no- ticed by Nuck {Opcr. diir. 4-c. Lugd. 1692); but it was Fernelius who first promulgated the doctrine, that aneurisms were always dilated ar- teries. {Univcrsa jMcdicina De Extern. Corp. Affect, lib. vii. cap. 3, Vcnet. 1564.) This opinion was espoused by Forrestus, Die- merbroek, and others ; but at length, the inaccu- racy of attempting to refer every aneurism solely to dilatation of the coats of the vessel, was established by the observations of Lancisi, Freind, Guattani and Morgagni. In short, as Mr. Hodgson has stated, these authors proved, tliat aneurism may be produced either by the rupture, or the dilatation