427 CATARACT. iheuraatic complaints. (Beer, h, ii. p. The following advice, delivered by Mr. Lawrence,with respect to preparation of the patient for operation, seems judicious: —After recommending the opera- tion not to be performed if the tongue is foul, he observes, " No fermented liquors, and generally no animal food, should be taken for a week or fort- night previously, and the bowels should be evacu- ated by some mild aperient every other day during this time; they should be also well cleared on the morning of the operation. These remarks will apply to all cases ; and generally speaking this is the only preparation necessary. Some patients, however, require other preparatory measures; in plethoric subjects, and such as manifest great de- termination of blood to the head, direct depletion is necessary. In robust persons, in those about the middle period of life, it will be necessary to resort to venesection ; and if the pulse were full and the patient young and strong, it might be advisable to take blood freely and repeatedly before operating In general, it is sufficient to take some blood on the morning of the operation. In those of a plethoric habit, with symptoms of determination to the head, we must practise active depletion; and this is occa sionally necessary even in old persons." {Lawrence On Bis. of the Eye, p. 415.) [At the present day such active depletion as the above is not found necessary. If the bowels are disordered, tongue foul, and appetite lost, a dose of calomel, every second or third night, followed by salts and senna next morning, ought to be given, three or four times. " Even if the patient appears to be in perfect health, three or four saline purges ought to be administered at proper intervals, and a strict antiphlogistic plan of diet followed, for at least eight or ten days." {Mackenzie, op. cit. p. 701.) Mr. Middlemore states that he has repeatedly operated for cataracts upon very gouty persons, with almost uniform success. His plan is to place an issue in the arm, about a week prior to the ope- ration; to select proper weather for the operation, and to take care that no fit of gout is expected to occur about the time of its performance. In this particular case he also prefers operating upon both eyes at the same period. {On I)is. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 120.) If a fit of gout is impending, or is supposed to be likely to occur, it should be allowed to pass over before the operation is performed,] oi? the vahious operations for Cataract. Four different operations are practised for the cure of cataracts, viz., one termed eotcchinf/, or de- pression, of which the method called reclination is a modification: a second, named extraction: a third, in which the lens is neither extracted nor depressed, but after the needle has been intro- duced into the eye in the same manner as for de- pression, the lens is disturbed, or divided, and left in its place to be removed by absorption. This method is frequently termed the operation by solution or absorption, which, however, is not altogether an unobjectionable phrase, because these processes are also concerned as a means of restor- ing vision after keratonyxis : and a fourth, deno- minated keratonyxis, which consists in puncturing the cornea with a needle, the point of which is to be conveyed through the pupil, so as to reach the cataract, which is to be gently broken into frag- ments. In particular cases, as Beer observes, each of these modes has manifest advantages over the others; but no single method will ever be exclusively preferred by any man of experience and judgment. In every operation for a cataract, the position of the patient, assistants, and surgeon, is of great importance. In order to enable the assistant who stands behind the patient, to be conveniently near the head of the latter. Beer prefers letting the patient sit on a stool which has no back. However, some surgeons have been in favour of employing a chair which is completely perpen- dicular. When the left eye is to be operated upon, the same assistant is to apply his right hand under the patient's chin, and press the head of the latter against his breast, at the same time that he inclines it and himself more or less forwai'd to- wards the operator, who sits upon rather a high stool, in front of the patient. In this country, a music-stool is commonly preferred, the height of which can be regulated in a moment, by simply turning the seat round to the right, or left, whereby the screw with which it is connected is made to rise or descend, as may be found most desirable. The same assistant then places his left hand flat upon the left side of the patient's forehead, with the pointsof the fore and middle fingers somewhat under the edge of the upper eyelid ; and, with the fore- finger, he is now to raise the edge of this eyelid as much as possible, following that finger immediately with the middle one, so as to fix the eyelid with greater certainty. The ends of these fingers, how- ever, must be so applied, as not to touch the globe of the eye in the slightest manner, much less make any pressure upon it; yet so that the upper part of the eyeball and cornea may be gently resisted by them when the eye rolls upwards away from the instrument about to be introduced, whereby this position, which is extremely inconvenient to the operacor, may be immediately rectified. The patient should also sit opposite a clear window, so that a sufficient light may fall obliquely upon the eyes, without any rays being reflected to the cornea, and becoming a hindrance to the ope- rator. Nor should light from any other quarter be ever allowed to fall upon the eyes. The surgeon should sit in front of the patient, whose head ought to be directly opposite the operator's breast, whereby the latter will be enabled to see from above, with the greatest correctness, every thing in the eye during the operation, and will. not be under the necessity of raising his arms too considerably. Supposing it to be the left eye which is to be operated upon, he next effect- ually draws down the lower ej^elid with the left forefinger, the end of which must bo placed over the edge of tho eyelid towards the globe of tlie eye. The middle finger is then to be applied in a similar w;iy over the caruncula la- chrymalis. Tho operator now takes in his right hand the requisite instrument for the operation viz. tho needle or knife, which is to be held like' a pen, between the thumb and the fore and middle fingers. By this particular arrangement of tho fingers of the assistant and operator, which, in- deed, is partly ineffectual where tho fissure of' the eyelids is very narrow and the cyebnll is diminu- tive and sunk in tho orbit, the restless eye of the timid patient is fixed; for a point of tlie finger is disposed on every side to which the eye can pos- sibly turn away from the instrument about to bo introduced, and when the cornea is gently touched