1032 from adventitious deposit, all trace of dandiilar etmcture being replaced by nucleated fibre; there is enlargement of the spleen from a similar deposit, and sometimes, also, deposit in the liver and kid- neys, also effusion into all the serous cavities, and often oedema of the lungs. (Wilks; Guy's Hos- pital Reports^ vol. v. 1859, p. 89.)] Henri/ Ancell, HYDRARTHROSIS. Hydrops ariiculi. A collection of fluid in the synovial cavity of a joint; usually the result of chronic synovitis, (See Joints, DIseases of.) HYDRARGYRIA. A peculiar eruption, ec- zema mercuriale, occasioned by the use of mercury. (See Mercury.) HYDRIODATE OF POTASH. (See Iodide OF Potassium.) HYDROCELE. (From iiSwp, water, and x^>-V, a tumor). The term, hydrocele, if used in a literal sense, means any tumor containing water; and occasionally we hear of hydroceles of the neck, cysts formed in that region, which contain a serous fluid, and sometimes attain considerable magnitude We h ear now and then of hydroceles in women which are collections of a similar fluid in the canal of Nuch. {RegnoU, see Revue Med. Oct. 1834). [Ascites is occasionally called hydi-ocele of the peritoneum, and spina bifida, hydrocele of the spine.] We much more frequently meet with col- lections of fluid in a hernial sac, constituting another kind of hydrocele. But, in ordinary surgical lan- guage, hydrocele signifies a collection of fluid in the tunica vaginalis of the testicle, or in a cyst formed in the spermatic cord. The hydrocele by infiltration of French writers, is only an oedema- tons or anasarcous swelling of the scrotum. Anasarcous Tumor op the Scrotum. [This condition, known also as dropsy of the scrotum or OEdema Scroti, frequently accompanies ascites, and is often met with, occurring generally as a sj'mptom of organic disease, in conjunction with serous infiltration of the extremities or body at large. It is frequently seen in persons suflfering from Bright's disease of the kidneys.] According to Dupuytren, idiopathic hydrocele by infiltration rarely occurs but in new-born infants and in men of advanced age. (Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 436.) [It is observed occasionally as a local affection in old men, and in persons debilitated by dis- ease, especially where the scrotum is particu- larly pendant. Disease of the inguinal glands, and obstruction of the circulation in the veins and lymphatics, have been known to produce it. The rupture of a hydrocele, or puncture of a hydro- cele, may also give rise to it. The characters of the affection are as follow : — " The osdema com- mences at the most depending part of the scrotum, to which it is confined when the infiltration is slight. When the whole scrotum is involved, the part presents an uniform indistinctly-defined tumor, ■with a soft and doughy feel, and pits on pressure ; but, owing to the large size of the spaces, the fluid traverses the connective tissue so freely that the parts retain the impression of the finger for but a lew moments. As the tumefaction increases tlio tegumental ruga; are obliterated, and the surface of the skin becomes smooth and somewhat tense, and has a pnle, glistening, semi-transparent appear- ance. The testicles are so surrounded with the infiltrated serum that they cannot be distinguished. HYDROCELE. AVhen the redema is considerable, the integuments of the penis generally participate in the distension ; the prepuce becomes twisted and distorted, and so enlarged as to conceal the glans penis. Tlie tumefaction often extends also to the groins and lower part of the abdomen." {Curling, On Diseases of the Testis, p. 467.)] As the cellular tissue on one side of the scrotum is a continuation of that on the other, and both freely communicate, the accounts delivered by certain authors, Pott amongst others, of the possi- bility of this species of hydrocele being confined to one side of the scrotum, are not credited by Boj^er. [Although the connective tissue is usually somewhat condensed in the course of the septum, there is always a ready and free communication between the two sides. In Pott's case, Curling believes that the septum must have been particularly close and dense, to permit of the cause of the dropsical effusion to operate only on one side.] At all events, such a case is extremely rare, and, when it happens, is probably induced by the irritation of the urine in infants, or of the friction of the clothes in old persons, only acting upon a part of the scro- tum. [In tapping a hydrocele, the partial escape of the fluid into the connective tissue and infiltra- tion around the sac of the affected side would induce the same thing.] (See Diet, des Sciences Mid. t. xxii. p. 193.) If the cellular tissue under any of the investments of the spermatic cord, or tunica vaginalis, was anasarcous, then, indeed, as M. Velpeau observes, the swelling might be con- fined to one cord, or one side of the scrotum. (See Nouv, JElem. de Med. Oper. t. iii. p. 507; also Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 436.) Such a case, as Dupuytren observes, would require more or less free incision, instead of a small puncture. [This local cedema, in rare instances, might be mistaken for a hydrocele, or there might be a com- bination of oedema and hydrocele together, and much tact would then be necessary to discriminate between the two. When the disease depends upon some one of the constitutional causes of dropsy the treatment more properly comes within the province of the physician, and internal remedies are required; but the distension is sometimes so great as to threaten mortification or bursting of the scrotum, and a reduction of its bulk becomes absolutelj- necessary. Two plans have been recommended to effect this object, namely puncture and incision. Pott effected tlie first of these with the point of a lancet, but it is now usual to employ a darning or cataract needle to make one or two punctures, and as the spaces so freely communicate with each other, they are found sufiicient to relieve the most bulky swellings. {Curling, op. cit.) The multi- plication of punctures is an unnecessary proceeding, and they should not be made too close to one an- other.] Boyer had a case, in which the making of very slight punctures in an anasarcous scrotum was followed by the total destruction of this part, de- nudation of the testis and cord, and the patient's death, attended with dreadful suffering. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. t. xxii. p.19.5, 196.) [The danger of incisions, which were formerly much practised, is that they are very likely to be followed by diffuse inflammation, which may end in mortification. The scrotum must be pro- perly suspended in general anasarca, or such a