ment have been encouraging. In thirty-one cases in which it was given recovery toolc place in twenty-nine. In one of these, nearly two drachms of arsenic had been taken. In the two unsuc- cessful cases, the antidote could not be retained on the stomacii. (See Pereira, Elem. of Mai. Med. 3rd ed, vol. i. p. 767.)] ARTERIES. The process, by which a divided or punctured artery is healed, is particularly con- sidered under the word HiEaioRRHAGE ; while the general principles, which ought to be observed in the application of the means for the stoppage of bleed ing, may be collected partly from the remarks contained in that part of the work, and partly from what is stated in the articles Amputation, Aneu- rism, and Ligature. As the condition of a bleeding patient admits of no delay, and the preservation of his life entirely depends upon proper measures being immediately taken, no man ought to be suf- fered to profess surgeri"- who is not competent to the treatment of wounded arteries, whether injured by accident or in a surgical operation. Loss of limb, or life itself, is the too frequent consequence of such ignorance. Thus, Langenbeck recites the case of a turf-cutter, who let the instrument with which he worked fall against the lower part of his leg, whereby the posterior tibial artery was wounded. The blood gushed out profusely, and the surgeon who was sent for applied a tourniquet to the popliteal artery, and thus stopped the bleed- ing for a time ; but, unfortunately, the tourniquet was kept so long on the limb, that the foot mortified, and sloughed awa}-. {Bibl. fur die Ckir. b. i. p. 231, 232. Gott. 1806.) From the e.xplanations, delivered in the article HiEMOR- RH.4GE, it will be seen that, in all bleedings from considerable arteries, nothing is equal to the liga- ture, as a means of preventing the further loss of blood ; and it may be laid down as a standing rule, that each extremity of the wounded vessel should be tied as near as possible to the wound in its coats. As Mr. Hodgson has remarked, " the ne- cessity of tying both ends of a wounded artery is evident from the fact, that the anastomoses in all parts of the body are so extensive as to furnish a supply of blood, which may pass through the lower extremity of the wounded vessel in a suffi- cient stream to pro^ce an alarming, and, in some instances, a fatal hseraorrhage." (Om Diseases of Arteries, S{c. p. 469.) This correct observation is followed by a case in which the bleeding from the lower end of a divided brachial artery caused the patient's death. Of course, the inference is that both extremities of the vissel ought to have been tied directly after the receipt of the wound. With regard to tying the trunk of an artery in a part of the limb where it can be exposed with facility, when it is diflicult to secure its hleeding extremities, as Mr. Hodgson remarks, the prac- tice " was fal8<:ly deduced from a knowledge of the fact that the ligature of an artery at a dis- tance from the disease will elfect the cure of an aneurism. But, a more intimate acquaintance with tlie condition of a limb after Bucli an opera- tion, and the processes by which the cure of an aneurism is elfected after the modern operation, alford a com|dete illustration of the inefficacy and danger of this mode of treating a wounded artery ; for it is now fully proved, that when an artery is tied a stream of blood continues to pass through it below RIES. 283 the ligature." This well-informed surgeon is aware however, tliat instances do occur, in which only the upper end of a wounded artery is tied, and yet the patient recovers without hemorrhage from the lower orifice, \\ hich is closed by the natural processes. In the year 1814, in Holland, I took up the femoral artery, in the middle of the thigh, in a case where the popliteal artery had given way, ten days after the passage of a musket-ball through the ham. I employed only one smallish ligature, which was applied with the precaution of not de- taching the artery from its natural connections. The hasmorrliage was effectually stopped, and the wound healed in the most favourable manner. Here, no doubt, the inflammation in the ham had obliterated the portion of the artery immediately below the point at which it had sloughed, or ul- cerated; and there might even have been, from the same cause, some deposition of lymph within the upper portion of the popliteal artery, contributing to the success of the operation. But, no doubt, it was the diminution of the impulse of the cii'cula- tion by the ligature of the femoral artery, which enabled nature to complete the obliteration of the wounded part of the vessel. In 1834, I cut down to and tied the popliteal artery in the University College Hospital, to stop hiemorrhage from the pos- terior tibial artery, which had been wounded in a boy who, in cleaning a window, slipped, and thrust his leg through a pane of glass. As, in conse- quence of the house-surgeon having made several ineffectual attempts to stop the bleeding by liga- ture of the posterior tibial, there was an exten- sive ill-conditioned wound, I judged it better to tie the popliteal artery than to increase the dis- turbed state of the parts lower down. The opera- tion, which was attended with no difliculty, suc- ceeded completely, as the ligature of the femoral artery has done in the hands of Bupuytren, Del- pech, and others, for the stoppage of hajmorrhage from the tibial arteries in compound fractures of the leg. Sometimes, says Mr. Hodgson, when hemorrhage takes place," a few days after the bleeding from a wounded artery has been stopped by compression, one extremity of the vessel will be pervious, whilst the other will have closed by the natural processes. Cases have even occurred in wliich the upper end of the artery has been closed by the natural processes, whilst those pro- cesses failed in eifecting the obliteration of the lower extremity of the vessel, from wliich a serious hccmorrhage took place. (Hodgson, op. cit. 475- and Guthrie, in Neio Med. and Phqs. Journ. vol. iv. p. 177.) Indeed, in the example in whicli I took up the femoral artery myself, it was impos- sible to Biiy positivf ly, wlietl'ier the blood came from the part of the popliteal artery above, or below the slough in it, as no incision was made into the ham. It is observed by Mr. Guthrie, that the lower end of a divided artery is more prone to secondary hicmorrhago than the upper; and that when bleed- ing returns, alter having been arrested for a period ol lour hours, it takes place, in all probability, from the lower end. " This (says he) may alwavs be known by the darker colour of the blood, aiid by its (lowing out in a continuous stream, in the same manner as water rises (iom a spring, and not with any arterial impulse." (See Guthrie, On JJis. and Iiij.of Arteries, p. 248.) His observations lead him to conclude, that the retraction and contraction of the lower end of a divided artery, is neitlicr so