1023 HYDATIDS. duce scolex-heads, but other cysts like itself. These are 'daughter cysts,' and these secondary cysts will also produce scolex-heads. They are also ' nurses;' and in virtue of their existence the mo- ther cyst becomes, in the languapje of Steenstrup, a ' parent nurse.' The second cyst may contain, as it frequently does in the Ecrdnococctis aitricipa- riens of Kiichenmeister, a third \ cyst, a ' grand- daughter cyst,' which is also a nurse, and thus on. Anotlier curious point about all these creatures is that they are sexless. Neither cyst nor scolex-head has any sex. Nor do they acquire sexuality as long as they remain in the flesh in the hydatid condition. It is to this condition of the worm that Professor Huxley proposes to apply the term ' Aga- mozooid.' The objection to this term is that it is equally applicable to all sexless forms of reproduc- tion amongst animals as to those to which Steen- strup has applied the term 'nurses.' " In order to acquire the conditions necessary to the development of sexual organs, the cystic or asexual form of the worm must be swallowed and digested by another animal. The scolex-head then becomes in its turn truly a ' nurse,' and this of a most prolific kind, for the cyst below being dis- placed, the numerous segments ('proglottides'' as they have been called) begin to make their appear- ance. The conditions arc now such that sexes ap- pear; each segment is merely a capsule containing a male and female generative apparatus, and nothing else. Eggs, the result of the union of sperm cells and germ cells, are now produced in myriads. These pass into the external world, and being swallowed and digested, set free the embryos, which again become cj'stic worms as above described," (See Dr. Lankeste.r's Preface to his (ranslaiion of Kiichenmeister's Manual of the Animal and Veye- table Parasites of the human body, Sydenham Society, 1857.) We shall here subjoin a brief account of tlie most common varieties of the cystic worms which infest the human subject. They may be divided into two classes; the cysticerci and the Echinococci. The term acephalocysts has been applied to echino- coccus cysts which remain barren and do not de- velop scolices, or worm-heads, in their interior. Cysticeuci. 1. Cysticercus cellulosm.—The cysticercus cellu- losse is the cystic form of the taenia solium, or common tape-worm of the human subject. The pig is the animal in which this worm, in its cystic stage, is most frequently found, and its ordinary seat is in the cellular tissue and muscles, which it often infests in large numbers: pork so diseased is commonly known as " measly." It is not, however, exclusively in the pig that this cysticercus has its habitation ; It is met with occasionally in other domestic animals, and the corresponding tissues in the human subject are also suited for its de- velopment, if the opportunity be afforded to it by the introduction of its ova into the stomach. Under ordinary circumstances, it is by eating raw or partially dressed pork containing cysticerci that the tape-worm is introduced into the human intestines ; and it is by swallowing the eggs of the tape-worm, or the segments containing eggs which have been passed with the faeces from the human intestine, that the cysticerci reach the tissues of the pig. Thus, by a repetition of this transference from the one to the other, the breed of these parasites is kept up. " The teenia solium," Bays Kiichen- meister, " is very Jibundant wherever the breeding of pigs flourishes, as in Poland, Hungary, England, Pomerania, and Thuringia ; and especially amongst those engaged in trades which bring them in con- tact with raw pork, and therefore with raw cysti- cerci, as butchers, cooks, eating-house keepers, &c. On the other hand, the taenia solium is almost en- tirely unknown where the use of this flesh is avoided, as among Jews or Mahomedans, or where these animals are almost entirely absent, as in Iceland." A brief account of the mode in which this worm is developed will serve as a type for the whole class. When the ovum is received into the stomach of another animal, its envelope or shell is dissolved by the action of the gastric juice, and the em- bryo is set free. The embryo is provided with an apparatus consisting of six minute hooks or spines, adapted for boring through the tissues. By means of these it makes its way through the walls of the stomach, either into the peritoneal cavity, or into a blood-vessel; in the latter case, it may be carried passively with the current of the circulation to dis- tant parts of the body. Then, becoming arrested in the finer ramifications of the blood-vessels, it may either burst through their walls, or may again ac- tively penetrate the tissues, and if these are suit- able for it, its growth and development will proceed. If, on the other hand, these embryos get into ani- mals which are not suitable, or into such organs in an animal, otherwise suitable, as are not adapted for the particular species of worm, they are destroyed in a sliort time, usually in a very few days after their immigration. Under these circumstances, Kiichen- meister thinks that a confusion of them with miliary tuberculose disease of the organ is not only possible, but may frequently have occurred. (Op. cit. p, 74.) Having reached an appropriate destination, the worm, which at this stage consists of a minute vesicle, gradually increases in size, and becomes strength- ened on its exterior by fibrinous deposition {envelope cyst), while in its interior the scolex is gradually formed. At one point in the vesicle, its innermost lining membrane is inflected towards its centre, and at the bottom of this tubular inflection are produced the four sucking discs and the double circlet of hooks which characterise the head of the mature tape-worm, with which the scolex is iden- tical in every respect. A considerable period — some weeks—is required before this stage is reached, and when it is completed, the scolex remains in the same condition for an indeterminate period in the interior of the vesicle, and is nourished by the fluid which the vesicle secretes. Ultimately, however, it dies, and the cyst collapses ; but the earthy ma- terials entering into its composition usually re- main permanently imbedded in the tissue. If the vesicle containing the mature scolex is swallowed by another animal, the vesicle is digested and dis- solved, and the scolex (which appears in consequence of its vitality to have the power of resisting the solvent influence of the gastric secretion) becomes freed. It now protrudes its circlet of hooks, and by means of these and of its sucking discs, attaches itself firmly to some point of the intestinal walls. The generative segments of the mature tape-worm now begin to be formed I'rom the opposite end of the scolex, and those which are first produced are gradually removed further and further I'rom the head by the growth of new ones. When the segments have reached maturity, they aro thrown off, either