HERNIA. 973 'ee Nmiveavx Elemens de Med. Oper, t. ii. p. 6.) Mr. Jameson, of Baltimore, even ventured, at 3 urgent solicitation of a lady, whose hernia (a noral one) had returned after having been •angulated and operated upon, to try to accom- sh a radical cure on Taliacotian principles. In :t, he is stated to have formed a flap of the ape of a lancet out of the integuments, with its oad end towards the former wound. After ving been carefully raised and twisted into the ituble direction, it was introduced into the sac thin the crural canal. Here it was secured by ising the wound with sutures and applying a ndage. This venturesome proceeding is alleged have been completely successful. The expe- nent has not yet, I believe, been tried in any ler case ; and doubts may be entertained whe- 2r it deserves it, unless the patient were deter- ned voluntarily to place his life in serious danger, itead of being content with the relief afforded • a truss. Another proposal for the radical cure of mia is the employment of firm wooden blocks, the place of a soft pad with the truss. A favour- le report upon the subject has been drawn up ■ Dr. Reynell Coates and other American sur- r>ns. The radical cure of reducible hernia has of late years ich engaged the attention of surgeons, and especi- y two methods, which have been followed by con- lerable success, are now being practised in some : our London and provincial hospitals. The first that of Professor WUtzer, of Bonn, in which the rotum, together with the hernial sac and its verings, are invaginated in the inguinal canal, d maintained there by a wooden plug till in- .mmation and adhesion of the invaginated struc- r(;3 have taken place. The other is tliat of Mr. 'ood, assistant surgeon to King's College Hospi- 1. {Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xliii. 71.) In this method the sac and its coverings e invaginated through an opening in the skin he latter being left in situ), and attached by bcutancous sutures to the boundaries and ori- :e3 of the inguinal canal. The intention in this ■oration is to obtain adhesion between the sur- ces held in contact by the ligatures, and also to irrow the inguinal canal itself by bringing its ills and the margins of its orifices closer together, 1 adhesion and consolidation have been accom- ished. As all these procedures are intended to super- de the palliative measure hitherto depended )on in the treatment of reducible hernire, namely, properly adjusted truss, it behoves both the sur- ; on and the patient to weigh well the advantages ! issensed over the truss by these so-called radiciil ethods of cure. To the working man the truss is an :pen8ive instrument. Under the continual exer- )n of his daily work it is liable to get out of . der, to break, and to be a constant source of ex- ■nso and annoyance. The boon to him of an oration, conducted in a public liospital, which Duld free him from these troubles, would indeed ■ great. It should also be borne in mind that the 3aring a truss is by no means a certain preven- ■e of strangulation, although it considerably isons the risk of this serious occurrence. With e more affluent the consideration of expense is important; the leisure they can devote to obtaiu- ; a perfectly fitting instrument, of a construction best suited to their individual case, the absence of all necessity for violent bodily exertion, will in all probability induce most of this class of persons to be satisfied with the palliative means afforded by the truss. Surgeons themselves, I apprehend, from their knowledge of the close proximity of the im- portant structures involved in these operations, will not frequently become the subjects of them ; notwithstanding they may know that very few fatal cases have occurred, and that a very large majority of the operations have been, as far as is yet known, successftJ, and unattended with danger. Wiilzers Method.—The instrument used by Wiit- zer is a cylinder of wood, with a movable concave cover. The cylinder is perforated longitudinall}^ to convey a needle, which emerges from an opening near its extremity. The cover is supported by an up- right stem projecting from the upper surface of the cylinder, near its handle. It is made to approxi- mate the cylinder by means of a screw, and is per- forated near its extremity to receive the needle, after the latter has passed through the cylinder. This instrument has been improved by Professor Rothmund, of Munich, who prefers an oval to a perfectly round cylinder, and a silver to a steel needle; but the principal advantage of Rothmund's instrument is in the contrivance for fixing the whole apparatus, which is effected by the needle. This consists in a spring at the handle, which keeps the needle from slipping. The needle is armed also with a movable point, which is replaced by a blunt knob after use ; and in order to suit canals of different capacities, the cylinder is made to vary in thiclfness by the addition of lateral pieces. The operation is performed in the following way : — The fore finger is placed on the scrotum, about the centre of the tumor formed by the hernial sac. It is then directed through the external ring into the inguinal canal, pushing before it the scrotum, the hernial sac, and its coverings. The next step of the operation is to substitute the cylinder for the finger. This must be done with great care. The surgeon should assure himself that the cylindrical plug has passed through the external ring into the inguinal canal, and that it and the invaginated structures so completely fill the canal that no' intestine can protrude. The needle, previously placed in the cylinder so as to reach the orifice near its point, but not to project beyond it, is now thrust through the invaginated structures and the abdominal wall. This fixes the cylinder in its place. The cover is now adjusted, and by turn- ing the screw is made to press the living tissues between it and the cylinder cvenhr, and with moderate force. The sharp point of tlie needle is then removed, and replaced by the blnnt knob. The operation being finished, the patient is placed in the recumbent position in bed, with his knees flexed and the scrotum supported. The cover of the instrument may be raised and readjusted from day to day, so as to regulate the pressure. In a few days some redness and swelling will manifest themselves in the neighbourhood of the puncture- and before the first week has passed a little pus may be seen to oo7,e from it. A serous fluid may also be noticed to escape from between the inva- ginated skill and the cylinder. Tiie whole appa- ratus may now bo removed by withdrawing tlio needle, and the invaginated parts will be found to retain their position. The patient must keep his