1012 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 6. That when a patient ]iad more than one wound, or sore, it frequently happened that the disease was confined to one of the sores, while the other remained perfectly healthy, and this even when they were at no great distance from each other. {On Phagedcena Gangrcenosa, p. 19.) Thus, Mr. Blackadder espouses the opinion that hospital gangrene is at first a local and not a cmi- stitutional disease. In the hospital gangrene, observed by Dr. Rollo in the Artillery Hospital at Woolwich, "the action of the poison seemed to be limited and con- fined to specific effects. The first tvere local, pro- ducing only a general ajffection by a more extensive operation on the sore. Five or six days from the appearance of the small ulcer or ulceration, when it had extended over one third of the former sore, with pain and redness in the course of the lympha- tics, and the glands, through which they led, with enlargement of them, general indisposition of the body became evident." Delpech, in his interest- ing memoir, particularly notices that the consti- tutional symptoms always occurred the last in order of succession. Mr. Blackadder declares that the period at which the constitution begins to exhibit symptoms of irritation, is extremely irregular,— sometimes as early as the third or fourth day, and some- times even as late as the twentieth. The countenance assumes an anxious, or feverish as- pect; the appetite is impaired; the desire for liquids increases; and the tongue is covered with a white mucus. The bowels are generally rather constipated; and the pulse what may be termed rather irritated than accelerated. But the gene- ral symptoms may assume an inflammatory, or typhoid character, the pulse is frequent and sharp, and it is not uncommon for the patient to be seized with one or more shivering fits, succeeded by a great increase of heat, but seldom or never termi- nating in a proliise perspiration. The cold fit is sometimes followed by a bilious discharge from the intestines, and mitigation of the febrile disorder. If the local mischief be not arrested, the strength becomes daily more and more exhausted; the fever loses its inflammatory character; and, unless the patient be cut oif by heemorrhage, he falls a victim to extreme debility. When the disease has a typhoid character, the pulse is small and frequent; the appetite and strength gradually fail ; and the patient at last sinks, retaining his mental. facul- ties to the last. Not unfrequently diarrhoea has. tens the event. {Blackadder, On Phagedcena Gan grcenosa, p. 39, 40.) The sloughing phagedena seen by Mr. R. Wel- bank, generally in the cleft of the nates, in the groin, or at the inner and upper part of tlie thigh, in the lowest class of prostitutes, and, according to his description, certainly resembling hospital gan- grene, was attended, in its early stages, with little or no disturbance of the sj'stem; a circumstance which he also mentions as favourable to the doc- trine that the disease is of a local nature. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi. p. 3G5.) On the other hand, the generality of writers, nay, even some of those who represent the disease as always proceeding from a species of infection applied to the wound, take into the .account the operation of constitutional causes, as predisposing to, and of course preceding, the local symptoms, r)r. J. Thomson believes that the constitutional symptoms mostly precede the local. (Orf Inflam- mation, p. 469.) The same sentiment is pro- fessed by Dr. Hennen, Dr. Hennen mentions a remarkable instance, which also proves the possibility of a specific sore becoming affected, and fatal from this cause, in forty-eight hours after the patient had first been exposed to the infection. The patient " who had just landed from England, and was under the in- fluence of mercury, employed for a venereal com- plaint, died within forty-eight hours after his admission, the gangrene having seized on an open bubo in his groin, eroding the great vessels in the neighbourhood, and absolutely destroying the ab- dominal parietes to a large extent." {Principles of Military Surgery, p. 218, ed. 2.) The effects of hospital gangrene should be care- fully discriminated from those of the scurvy. Ulcers attacked with hospital gangrene are not affected in any degree like scorbutic ulcers, by the use of vegetable diet and lemon-juice; and they occur among men who are fed upon fresh meat and vegetables, as readily as they do among those who have been fed altogether upon salt provisions. {Thomson, Lectures on Inflammation, p. 482.) In cases of hospital gangrene, the general symptoms of scurvy are also absent, such as soreness and bleeding of the gums, livid blotches and wheals on the fleshy part of the legs, oedematous ankles, &c. Its occasional causes are : the situation of an hospital upon a low marshy ground ; the vicinity of some source of infection; the uncleanliness of the individuals, or of the articles for their use; the crowded state of the wards, especially when they are small and badly ventilated; lastly, everything that tends to corrupt the air which the patients breathe. An infected atmosphere may produce in the most simple wounds unfavourable changes, partly, as Boyer conceives, by its immediate action on the surface of the wound, but no doubt, princi- pally, by its hurtful influence upon the whole animal economy. The foregoing causes have also sometimes produced alarming and obstinate gan- grenes of an epidemic kind, or, at least, a state of the constitution, under the influence of which all wounds and ulcers constantly took on a bad aspect, and were often complicated with the worst gan- grenous mischief. Vigaroux saw such an epidemic disease prevail for twenty months in the two hospi- tals of Montpellier;. and he states that the most powerful antiseptics were of little avail against the disorder, which often invaded the slightest scratches. In general, this epidemic species of gangrene is not observed in new-built hospitals, nor in those which are erected out of the central parts of cities upon high ground. Hospital gangrene may occur in any season; but it is most common after the sultry heat of summer. A bilious constitution, mental trouble, unwhole- some or insufficient food, a scorbutic diathesis, great debility, and fevers of a dangerous type, are also reckoned by the French surgeons as so many predisposing causes of hospital gan- grene. The observations of Pouteau, and those of some other practitioners, convincingly prove that hospi- tal gangrene may be communicated to the most simple wound or ulcer in a subject of the best constitution, and breathiuR the purest air, by merely putting into contact with such wound, or ulcer,