FRACTURE. 683 circumstance that fully explains why fractures are then more common than in summer. The remote cause of fractures is external force variously applied, in falls, blows, &c. In particu- lar instances, the bones are broken by the violent action of the nniscles attached to them ; this is almost always the case with the fractured patella. Occasionally the olecranon and os calcis have like- wise been broken by the violent contraction of the muscles inserted into them. With respect to the heel. Petit records two instances, one of which was communicated to him by Poncelet, and the other seen hy himself in Madame La Pre'sidente de Boissire, who met with tlie accident in walking at a gentle pace in the court of the Ilfitel de Soubise. When the injury happens in leaping, or in falls from a high situation, Leveiile thinks it more probable that a portion of the os calcis is torn off by the powerful action of the muscles of the calF, than that it is broken by any blow immediately on the part. He states that Desault used frequently to cite two examples of this kind, one of which is recorded in his CEuvres Chimrgicales. Whether the long bones can be fractured by the mere action of the muscles, has been a disputed point. In the Philosophical Transactions, a frac- ture of the humerus is ascribed to this cause ; and Botentuit knew of the same accident being pro- duced as a person was striking a shuttlecock with a battledore. According to Debeaumarchef, as a man was descending a ladder at a quick rate, his heel got entangled in an opening, and he made a violent exertion to avoid failing. The consequence was a fracture of the lower third of the leg. Curet informs us that a cabin-boy, aged seventeen, made a considerable effort to keep himself from being thrown down by the rolling of the ship. The femur was fractured by the powerful action of the mnscles of the thigh. The lad had no fall, and, with some difficulty, supported himself on the other limb till he received assistance. We are told, says Leveiile', by Poup^e Des- portes, tliat a negro, .about twelve or thirteen years old, was seized with such violent spasmodic con- tractions of the muscles of the lower extremities that the feet were turned backward, and the neck of each thigh-bone was fractured, the ends of the broken bones also protruding through the skin upon the outside of the thigli. A cure was effected after an exfoliation. We read also, in the Miscel- lanea Curiosa Acad. Naturie Curiosorum, that during a fit of epilepsy, a child, ten years old, had its left hiunerus and tibia broken, and that, upon opening the body, other solutions of continuity were observed. (!hnm%'ru assisted in dressing a child, eleven or twelve years old, that had broken the humerus in throwing a stone a consideraljle distance. {Nouvallc Doctrine Chir. t. ii. p. 104. 166.) It is the belief of Richcrand, however, that a long bono, when healthy, can never be broken by the mere contraction of the muscles. (Mosoi/v. Chir. t. iii. p. 12. ^dit. 4.) For my own part, making all due allowance for the inaccuracy of snnic of the reports, I think the possibility of the long bones being broken by the violent action of the muscles is sufficiently proved. I have never seen but one example ; but it was an uiie(|uivocal one ; I attended, for the late Mr. Ramsden, an exceedingly strong man, at Pentonville, who broke his 08 brnchii in making a powerful blow, although he missed his aim, and struck nothing at all. The whole limb was afterwards affected with vast svi'elling and inflam- mation, 3. Symptom.s of Fractures. The symptoms of fractures are : the pain and in- ability of the patient to move the limb; the change in its form, the shortening of it; the separation and inequalities of the ends of the fracture when the bone is superficial ; and especially the crepitus or grating which may be both heard and felt when the ends of the broken bone are made to rub against each other. Most of these symptoms, however, taken by themselves, are equivocal; the pain and inability to move may arise from a mere bruise, a dislocation or other cause; and even the crepitus, one of the most important signs, is simulated in some cases of dis- location in consequence of synovial effusion. On this point Sir A. Cooper remarks, speaking of dis- locations, that " some time after the accident, it frequently happens that a sensation of crepitus is produced by the effusion of adhesive matter into the joint and surrounding burse; the synovia in which becomes inspissated and crackles under motion. But every practitioner ought to be able to distinguish this crackling from the _9mfow5'crepitus of fracture." —(Oa Dislocations, tf;c. ed. by Branshy Cooper, p. 4.) Indeed, the signs of fractures are so exceedingly various, according to the bones which are the subject of injury, that it cannot be said that there is any one, which is invariably present and charac- teristically confined to them. The writers of sys- tems of surgery usually notice loss of motion in the injured limb, deformity, swelling, tension, pain, &c. as forming the general diagnosis of fractures. However, it is easily comprehensible by any one acquainted with anatomy, that numerous frac- tures cannot prevent the motion of the part, nor occasion outward deformity ; and every surgeon must know, that though at first there may be pain in the situation of a fracture, no inflammation, swelling, and tension can take place till after a certain period. There may be, however, a swell- ing produced in the first instance by extravasa- tion of blood, or by displacement of the ends of the bone. When, therefore, a limb is broken, and the event is not manifest from the distortion of the part, it is proper to trace with the fingers the outlines of the suspected bone : if it be the tibia, let the surgeon examine with his fingers whether any inequality can be discovered along the anterior surface, anil along the sharp front eilge of that bono. If it be the clavicle, let him trace the superficial course of the bone in the same attentive manner. AVher- ever nny nnusu.al pain occurs, or any unnatural irregularity appears, let him try if a grating or crepitus cannot bo felt, on endeavouring to make one end of the suspected fracture rub against the other. [It must be borne in mind, however, that in cases where the ends of the fracture luivc been separated frmn each other by the action of nniscles, or any other cause, it will be impossible to feel a crepitus unless the surgeon so nmniiges the limb as to bring them into contact. This is especially true of fractures of the cervix fenmris witliiu the cap- sular ligament, where the two pieces may be sopa-