This definition, or quasi definition, purposely includes the feverishness produced by a debauch, by over-fatigue, or by inhaling putrid vapours, or any specific poison; and it includes most of the cases wliich come under the term cachexia, which really seem to difter from fever solely in the slow- ness, or, we might almost say, the perpetuity, of some of them. That the causes of cachexia may be hereditary, or derived from remote disorders of assimilation, is no sign of difference in the processes, all of which may be included in our formula. Before proceeding further, we may remark upon the strange controversy which occupied the atten- tion of our forefathers, when they disputed whether there could be such a thing as essential or idiopathic fever (i.e. fever dependent on blood disease or other general disorder), or whether all fever was not de- pendent upon local disease, being itself an " irrita- tion " of the constitution consequent thereupon. The kind of argument was this : Local inflamma- tion excites general fever; therefore, all general fever is excited by local inflammation. In accordance with this doctrine, some believed typhoid fever to be an inflammation of the brain, or lungs, or intestines; some believed the cold stage of ague to be caused by congestion of the heart, &c. This false doctrine was supported, moreover, by the results of post- mortem examination, for the local congestions dis- covered after yellow fever, for instance, were as- sumed to be the cause of the general symptoms. Pathologists of this school resembled the Brahmin philosopher, who put the earth on an elephant, the elephant on a tortoise, and so on, without reflecting that the putting oft' a difficulty is no solution of it. The more liberal and comprehensive pathology of the present day enables us to escape the difiiculty of having to choose between two seemingly opposite theories by accepting them both, because each is true under certain circumstances. There are cases in which, by allaying local irritation, feverishness disappears like magic. There are, again, other cases in which local medication is absurd, or impos- sible, or injurious, and in which "attention to the general state of health" will remove the local symptoms without difficulty. There are others in which both sets of treatment are required; but be this as it may, the local and the general symptoms are parts of one and the same thing, and cannot be dissociated in practice. To treat the feverishness which accompanies erysipelas, apart from the erysipelas, is impossible. Let us now briefly con- sider the varieties of febrile disorder which accom- pany local disease, whether as cause or effect. They are— 1. The Common Symptomatic, Sympathetic, Traumatic or Inflammatory fever. 2. The Irritative or Pyfcmic. ;'. The Acute Hectic, and the Common Hectic or fever of exliaiistinn, and Cachexia. 4. The Putrid Typhoid type, arising from the absorption of putrescent matter.] [I. SvMi'TOMATic Fever. Tiiis will bo min- utely described, according to modern ideas, in the Art. Inflammation, to which it properly belongs. Here we shall content oursclvoa with reproducing, as part of the history of medicine, some of the older doctrines found in the works of Hunter, and recorded in former editions of this Dictionary.] Every local complaint of any consequence, says Hunter, or wiiich has considerable and quick nc- ER. G'67 tion within itself, although not of considerable magnitude, affects more or less the constitution, and gives rise to what has been called the symptomatic fever. These symptoms are the sympathies of the constitution with a local disease or injury, and will vary according to many circumstances, such as the age, the quantity and manner of the mischief done. Such fever, Hunter believed, if an injury were considerable, to be a natural result, and a much better sign of health than when no fever takes place. Nature, he says, requires to feel the injury, for where after a considerable operation there is rather a quiet, weak pulse, often with a nervous oppression, with a seeming difficulty of breathing, and a loathing of food, the patient is in a dangerous way. Fever shows power of resistance; the other symptoms show weakness and sinking under the injury. In spontaneous inflammations, says Hunter, it is not easy always to know whether the constitution or the part is first aft'ected; the priority of symp- toms is a guide, although the constitutional symp- toms are often so slight as not to be taken notice of. Sympathetic inflammatory fever, he continues, is the sympathy of the constitution with the first stages of a local disease, which excites an alarm in the constitution, thereby rousing up its powers to produce succeeding actions. [So far as Hunter writes from observation of disease, his sagacity is marked. But his reasonings are obscure and self-contradictory; his attempts at finding motives for morbid phenomena usually un- happy, and the conclusions derived therefrom erroneous. He spoke of aciion and sympathy, where we 'speak of chemical decomposition of the blood; he always tended to lose sight of plain facts in the search for final causes; and so spoke of fever as a necessary and beneficial process, whereas it is unnecessary, intrusive, and mischievous. We now consider fever, like inflammation, to be a dis- ease and a complication of injuries, and not a beneficial process, although we still continue to speak of a healihy inflammatory fever, by way of contrast with other cases which are more un- favourable, and more unhealthy. The following extract from Mr, Travers will serve to show the doctrines entertained by our forefathers on the subject of fever, as arising from irritation:—] " It is scarcely necessary to illustrate the in- fluence of an irritable temperament upon the conse- quences of casual injury or disease. Practically, we all know it well. Wo say, such a person woidd he a had suhjact for a compound fniclurc ; and whoever has iiad opportunities of watching several subjects of compound fracture under troalnieiit at one and the same time, well knows the import of this phrase, and that the greatest degree of mischief is often accompanied by the least constitutional disturbance, and, for this reason, is soonest and most perfectly restored. The lirst few hours will enable an experienced observer to determine whe- ther the subject of a serious injury or operation will do well or otherwise. How vastly dill'erent in different individuals is the inconvenience attend- ing such minor derangements as a boil, an en- larged gland, a whitlow, or a simple ophthalmia. In some, the constitution seems ignorant of the nil'air, and the individual pursues his ordinary oc- cupations. In others, the whole system synipa-