1026 HYDATIDS. by plastic exudation. The transverse section of the walls of an echinococcus ^distinctly shows n structure consisting of more or less numerous con- secutive circular strata, varying according to nge, which is merely found indicated in a very low de- gree in cyst, tenuicollis. (Op. cit. p. 196.) The inner surface of the cyst, in the Echin. sco- lieipariens, ia beset with small elevations, some of which are the young scolices, in different stages of growth ; while others may be the remains of the stalk or pedicle, by means of which other scolices, which have been thrown off, were formerly attached. These latter will be found in large numbers, swim- ming about free in the fluid of the cyst. Many of these are still furnished with the remains of the stalk by which they were attached. When exa- mined by the microscope, they form, on the applica- tion of pressure, flattened circular discs ; from the hinder third of this, towards the stalk, a circlet of hooks, arranged in a double series, shines through, and from its anterior extremity the four sucking discs appear in the same way (p. 197). This rela- tive position of parts is caused by the retraction or inversion of the head into the neck or body of the worm. When the head is protruded, the circlet of hooks is situated anteriorly, or furthest from the stalk, and in front of the sucking discs. In the Echm. Aliricipariens, scolices are formed from the inner wall of the original cyst after the mode just described, and, in addition, secondary or daughter-cysts are produced ; and these secondary cysts, again, produce broods of scolices and tertiary or granddaughter-cysts, on the same plan. This process may be repeated any number of times. The daughter-cysts are at first, like the separate scolices, connected with the mother-cysts by a stalk, but they soon separate, and then float about free in the fluid of the mother-cyst. It has been ob- served, that when this echinococcus intrudes itself into the vacuities of tissues, or into the interior of blood-vessels or lymphatics, vesicular appendages, furnished with filiform peduncles, may be formed, which probably become separated by constriction, and form closed vesicles. These separate vesicles may proliferate again, or, what is probably more frequent, remain barren, and form acephalocysts, In this way numerous cysts in the same organ — the liver, for example—may be produced from a single embryo. The mode of generation and life here mentioned is interesting pathologically, as the appearance produced has been described by modern writers as a form of cancerous disease, under the name of alveolar colloid. Virchow thinks he has proved that the disease so called is nothing tnore than a number of emptied echinococcus vesi cles. For a description of cases of this nature, described by Virchow, Zeller, and others, see Klichenmeister (op. cit. p. 211). The individual scolices in Ecldn. AUric. are more slender than in the other species ; the head, with its double circlet of hooks, is more frequently protruded during life ; the hooks are more numerous (from forty-six to fifty-four), and much more slender, The sucking discs are very distinctly marked The cysts in Echin. AUric. from their greater proliferant activitj', attain a much greater size than those of Echin. Scolic. They sometimes form enormous tumors, whereas the Echitt. scolic. seldom exceeds an orange in size. The Echin. scolic. or veterinoitim, though very common in cattle, ia rare in the human subject ; but some few examples of it have been recorded. The solid abdo- minal viscera, such as the liver or spleen, are its most frequent seats ; but one case has been recorded by Von Ammon in which it was found in the interior of the eye. {Kuclwtimeister, p. 190.) The dwelling-place of the other species {Echin, altric.) is not so limited ; indeed, there is scarcely a part of the bcdy in which it may not be found ; thus it occurs in the liver, the lungs, the kidneys, the sheath of the testicles, the spleen, the ovaries, the breasts, the throat, the sub-cutaneous cellular tissue, the bones, &c. The hydatid disease is endemic in Iceland, and to so great an extent does it prevail there, that it has been estimated that one in seven of the whole population suffers from Echinococci. The taenia belonging to the Echin. altric. has not yet been discovered. It probably resides in the human intestines, and also in the carnivorous domestic animals, such as the dog and cat. The symptoms produced by this parasite depend upon the organ in which it is placed, the size which it attains, and the pressure which it exerts. The only certain evidence of its nature is the passage of the gelatinous vesicles from open cavities of the body after the bursting of a cyst, or a similar escape of them from the punctures or incisions made into the tumors. Thus they may escape from the lungs bj' coughing ; from the liver or spleen they may biu'st into the intestines, and be discharged by the anus, or from the mouth by vomiting ; from the kidney they may be evacuated with the urine. Cases of this latter kind are alluded to in Art. Bladder, ante, p. 322. For a description of hy- datids in bone see Tumors op Bojje. When they are so situated as to admit of external examina- tion, a peculiar jelly-like trembling when per- cussed has been said to distinguish hydatids from other cystic tumors. The prognosis of the Echinococci varies according to the situation of the swelling, the accessibility of the organ attacked for operation, and according to the primary or secondary injury to important organs and the whole system ; but the prognosis is more favourable than is generally supposed. The tumors, when they are accessible, are amongst the number of curable tumors ; they may cure themselves by bursting ; and when they are once got rid of, relapses in the same colony are rare and exceptional cases, and every new Echinococcus pro- duced usually owes its existence to a new immig:ra- tion of embryos. The natural cure by the bursting of a colony and the passage of daughter-vesicles, may be accompanied by symptoms dangerous to life; or if it take place in the direction of the larger bronchi, by difficulty of breathing, or may even lead to actual suffocation (p. 228). When acces- sible, they require to bo treated surgicallj-, by free incision, and by the evacuation of the whole of the contents of the cyst. Where a free incision is in- admissible, as much as possible of the contents of the cyst must be evacuated by puncture ; and this must"be repeated from time to time, if necessary.^ Acephaloci/afs are similar in their origin, in their mode of growth, and in their external appeai^nce, to the cysts of the echinococci ; but they ditt« from them in the circumstance that, although tbev growth may proceed uninterruptedly, they ne attain to the production of scolices in their '"tfT' J Acephalocysts, however, are not necessarily aenj , from tlie cmbrvos of echinococci; barren cysts