294 ASPHYXIA inspiration cannot act. 1. This happens where a heavj^ mass of earth or other materials, suddenly falls upon a man, and makes great pressure on the chest or abdomen. 2. Where the nervous in- fluence does not extend to these muscles, as where tiie phrenic nerves have been paralysed by the effect of lightning, or the medulla spinalis is injured high up. Thus an injury of the medulla as high up as the third cervical vertebra, by destroying the influence of the phrenic nerves will paralyse the diaphragm. It will, at the same time, paralyse the other principal muscles concerned in producing the re- quisite changes in the dimensions of the chest ; and, consequently, a fatal asphyxia must take place. This was well illustrated in a case brought into University College Hospital. The ends of the neck-handkerchief of a youth, aged fifteen, were caught by the wheel of some machinery, which drew his neck with great force against the works, and at the same time caused violent strangulation. In about one minute the handkerchief was cut through, and the constriction removed: he was brought to the hospital with his respiration stopped, and in a state of asphyxia from this cause. Attempts were made to restore respiration, and the action of the heart, first, by blowing air into the lungs, through the nostrils. Whenever this was done, the action of the heart returned, the pulse rose, and the iividity of the lips and countenance disappeared ; but as soon as the inflation of the lungs was dis- continued, the pulse sank so as to become undis- tinguishable, and the skin assumed the purple culour again. Finding that this happened re- peatedly, a suspicion was entertained that the cer- vical vertebrae had sustained injury; but, in order that the inflation of the lungs might have every chance of doing good, in the event of other injury not existing, I performed tracheotomy, and air was introduced into the lungs with a pair of bellows and a tube. All this, however, was in vain ; and galvanism was equally unsuccessful. The boy was kept in a state exhibiting signs of life for about six hours from the period of the accident ; but his temperature continuing to get lower and lower he at length sank. In the post mortem examination, a fracture of the arch of the third cervical vertebra, a laceration of the anterior ligament of the spine, an efl'usion of blood on the medulla, and also another effusion behind the pharynx, were detected. 3. Where the respiratory muscles are in a state of inaction from the influence of intense cold. As- phyxia, from the passive expansion of the lungs not taking place, may be exemplified in cases where the abdominal viscera are forced through an acci- dental or natural opening of the diaphragm mto the chest, or when the lungs are compressed by fluid in the cavity of the pleura, and various other causes. The second mode of asphyxia mentioned above, which depends upon the primary cessation of the ch-mkal phenomena of respiration, may be of two kinds. I. It may arise from some impediment to the entrance of air into the lungs; as the lodgment of a foreign body in the larynx, trachea, or oeso- phagus ; a swelling of the membrane of the larynx from iiifl:nnnuitory effusion, or from oedema ; ob- struction of the larynx and trachea willi fibrine, as iii croup ; tumors formed near, or pressing upon, some piu-t of the res|)iratory tube ; and press\u-c upon the same organ from any other cause, as is exemplified in strangnlation. One manner in which asphyxia is very frequently occasioned is by submersion, the lungs of warm- blooded animals not having an organisation qua- lifying them to derive from the oxygen contained in water the salutary influence on the blood, which they collect from the respiration of atmospheric air. 2. It may depend upon a deficiency 'in quantity or in quality) of air fit for the purposes of respira- tion. As the salutary effect of respiration depends upon the respired air containing a due proportion of free oxj'gen, the deficiency or absence of this element must necessarily produce asphyxia. On this principle, nitrogen, hydrogen, carbonic acid gas, and air too highly rarefied, will cause asphyxia. Car- bonic acid and some other gases act fatally also, on the principle of being positively deleterious to life when introduced into the air-cells. Asphyxia may be the original affection, or it may be only the termination of another disorder. Thus, a person is attacked by pneumonia, and dies of asphyxia, caused by hepatisation of the lungs ; or, he is seized with pleuiis)', and is ultimately de- stroyed by an effusion of serous fluid in the chest. (See M. Duvergie, in Did. de Med. el de Chir. Prat. art. Asphyxie.) Formerly, the cessation of the action of the heart in hanging or drowning was referred to a mecha- nical impediment to the transmission of blood through the lungs to the left cavities of the heart. But the experiments of Goodwyn and others prove that no such mechanical obstruction exists ; and that, even after the fullest expiration, the air remaining in the air-vesicles of the lungs distends them suflSciently to permit the blood to circulate freely through them. The real obstacle arises out of the interruption of those chemical changes which at- mospheric air produces on the blood while circula- ting in the pulmonary vessels, and which convert it from venous to arterial blood. In fact, the blood, which in asphyxia thus retains its venous character, does, for a time, pass through the pulmonary circulation, and is conveyed into the left ven- tricle, which propels it into the aortic system of arteries. . The notion of a mechanical impediment havmg been disproved, the idea next advanced was, that the blood, which is thus substituted for arterial, has deleterious properties, and deprives the organs to which it is sent of the power of performing their respective functions. Sensibility, irritabilit)-, together with all the physical and vital actions de- pending upon them are suspended. (See Roflcf, in Cyclop, of Praet. Med. art. Asphyxia.) The investigations of Bichat, led him to believe that the primary eff'ect of the circulation of venous, or what he called black blood, is on the brain, and that this effect extends, through the interven- tion of the brain, to the whole nervous system. Loss of sensibility, therefore, precedes the suspen- sion of the action of the heart, and takes place as soon as the venous blood, sent into the arteries, reaches the brain. According to Bichat, the action of the heart soon afterwards ceases, from the in- jurious effect of the ven.nis blood which is circu- lated through tiie coronary arteries upon its mus- cular structure. {See Didmt, Jiecl,crcJws sur la l.e that we are indebted for a more c"^'-'-'.;^''':'"'^- tion of the phenoniona of asphyxia. J", i^ny truly observes, that were Uicl.at's theory correct.