may be citlicr hard or soft at this period; and consequently the latter state is not necessarily pre- ceded by the former." (See lUustraiions of the Elem. Forms of Disease, fasc. iii.) Dr. Cai-swell ilkistrates this fact by reference to what happens in the cellular tissue and on serous surfaces ; and more especially on the surfaces of sores formed by the destruction of protruded portions of tumors, or after the removal of the breast, eye, or testis, affected with carcinoma. In all these situations, he observes, the deposited substance may present, at the same stage of its formation, the opposite extremes of consistence ; being in one case as hard as cartilage, and more or less transparent, and in another, as soft as brain, and quite fluid, and opaque. One very important pathological fact, in relation to this subject, is the frequency of scirrhus, medul- lary sarcoma, and fungus hfematodes, originating in the same morbid state, and passing from one to the other in this order, as specified by Dr. Carswell. Indeed, he adds, we often meet with all the varie- ties of scirrhas and medullary cancer (termed by him cephaloma), not only in different organs of the same individual, but even in a single organ. I have now seen many cases proving the truth of these statements ; yet, probably, the doctrine is correct which represents fungus hasmatodes as a distinct malady, although it may be consequent upon, or complicated with, other alterations of structure. When it occurs in young subjects, it is always primary, or is not preceded nor attended by the carcinomatous formation. But in persons past the meridian of life, in whom only scirrho- cancer,or hard cancer, is met with, the fungoid structure is sometimes produced consecutively, or in an advanced stage of it, and thus occasionally exists as a secondary complication with that disease, or as one of the advanced changes of structure con- sequent upon the constitutional vice." (See Dr. Copland's Diet, of Praet. Med. art. Fumjoid Dis- ease.) The same writer adds that, m a few in- stances, other morbid formations besides this have been found associated with the cerebriform struc- ture, as fibrous tumors, scrofulous matters, pus, melanosis, hydatids, and earthy deposits. Diipuy- tren notices a form of fungus haematodes, which is pulsatory, and combined with erectile tissue ; which latter circumstance, he says, may render the disease susceptible of a favourable change by the ligature of the artery, whose branches keep up the circulation in it ; while the other elementary matters found in it, in greater or lesser quantity, as the scirrhous and cerebriform, are a great impedi- ment to the success of this method of relief. (See Clin. Chir. t. iv. p. 59., and Andral, Anal. Pathol. t. i. p. 21.0.) The blood-vessels which enter scirrhus and medullary sarcoma vary greatly in number, and sometimes considerably in bulk. They are rarely perceptible in any of the varieties of scirrhus, and arc but few in the organised and mammary sarcoma, which are considered by Dr. Carswell as varieties of medullary sarcoma (cephaloma) ; •while, in ordinary medullary sarcoma, they are often so numerous'as to form the greater portion of the hniin-like tumor in which they ramify. In tills disease they are described by the latter eminent pathologist as varying in diameter from the bread til of a hair to that of a line, and to pre- sent that peculiarity of distribution, always more or less conspiciious in nowly-furiiicd blood-vessels, FUNGUS HiEMATODES. 7G7 which is, that their ramifications communicate with a common trunk at its opposite extremities, in the same manner as the hepatic and abdominal divi- sions of the vena portse do with the trunk of this vessel. They are frequently varicose ; their coats are remarkably delicate, and they have altogether much more of a venous than of an arterial cha- racter. According to Dr. Carswell's researches, they appear to be formed apart from the vascular system" of the surrounding textures, as they can be seen to originate in small red points, situated at the centre or at the circumference of the carcinomatous mass, which first assume the appearance of slender streaks of blood, and afterwards acquire a cylindri- cal arrangement and ramiform distribution, thereby constituting what may be denominated the proiJer circulation of medullary sarcoma, or cephaloma. The communication between these vessels and those of the organ in which the medullary sub- stance is contained, is frequently very imperfect; a circumstance which, together with the delicacy of their structure, renders them extremely liable to congestion and rupture. The most minute divi- sions of these vessels terminate by pencillated ex- tremities in the carcinomatous matter, where they communicate with veins and arteries belonging to the affected organ. The latter vessels, which Dr. Carswell regards as forming what may be termed the collateral circulation of medullary sarcoma, are seldom so conspicuous as the former ; though cases now and then occur in which they constitute the greater part of the vascular structure of the disease. They are described by the same excel- lent pathologist as proceeding in a radiating direc- tion from the pedunculated attachment of a tumor, or as rising along its circumference in the cellular tissue, separating it from the neighbouring parts. It is, he observes, by means of these vessels that the materials required for the nutrition and growth of such tumors are supplied ; and causes inter- rupting this collateral circulation will occasion the partial or complete destruction of these and other tumors. (See Carsioell's Illustrations of the Elem, Forms of Disease, fasc, iii.) According to the same high authority, nerves have never been detected in this or any other vavicty o( canw.T as a ne^u formation, though they are sometimes included within agglomerated tu- mors, or even a single tumor, tbiit has happened. to form in a situation through which they pass. In some cases the nerves have participated in the change of structure ; but, according to Dr. Cop- land, they have not been found changed beyond the limits of the tumor. In the eye the structure of the optic nerve is constantly altered; and in ii case referred to by Mr. Wardrop, the anterior crural nerve passed into the centre of the diseased mass, and was so completely lost in it that it was impossible to distinguish one structure from the other. Observations of this kind led M. Maunoir to suppose that the medullary matter was actually a collection of nervous pulp, an idea very incon- sistent with the well-known insensibility of such medulliiry matter. M. Fjobstcin, in combating the doctrine of M. Maunoir, declares that he has seen cases in the early stage of which the nerves passed through the tumor without undergoing any change. A very common cliaracter of medullary tumors is to bo lobular, the lobules being closely com- pacted together and enclosed in remarkably fnio cysts, the presence of which may be denionslrated