10°* HYDROPHOBIA, operation of which may be prevented or diminished by so many circumstances, I speak of substances injected into the veins, and the effect of which must be equally prompt and energetic. For in- stance, I have several times introduced into the vei is of rabid dogs very strong doses of opium (ten grains) without producing the least narcotic effect, while a single grain of the watery extract, injected into the veins of a healthy dog, immediately makes him fall asleep, and often continue so eight or ten hours. The same phenomena are remarked in our own species. M. Dupuytren and I injected into the radial vein of a young man labouring under hydrophobia, about eight grains of the gummy ex- tract of opium, without any apparent result. We have also seen mad dogs bear the introduction of prussicacid into their veins without an instant's re- mission in'the progress of their disorder." {Journ. de Physiologie, t. i. p. 41.) M. Magendie fre- quently noticed in his experiments that an artificial aqueous plethora manifestly enfeebles all the func- tions of the animals subjected to it, and especially those of the nervous system. Hence he was led to think that some benefit might arise from it in this disease where the activity of the nervous system is its greatest height. His idea received encourage- ment also from considering that in hydrophobia the patient takes no drink to replace the fluids sepa- rated from the circulation by the cutaneous and pulmonary perspiration, and that after venesection the blood seems as if it hardly contained any serum. The experiment was first tried on a rabid dog, from which about a pound of blood was drawn, and then sixty ounces of water injected into the left jugular vein, about ten or twelve ounces of blood, mixed with water, however, being purposely allowed to flow out during the latter part of the operation. The animal, which had previously been quite furious, now became quite tranquil; but five hours afterwards it was attacked with difficulty of breathing, which ended fatally in half an hour. (Vol. cit. p. 44, &c.) On the 15th of October, 1823, M. Magendie injected a Paris pint of water, heated to thirty degrees Reaumur, into the veins of a man's arm, who was labouring under hydrophobia in an advanced and violent form. Directly after the operation, the patient, from being furious, became tranquil, the pulse fell from 1.50 to 120, then to 100, and in twent}"-minutes to 80, Tlie convulsive motions ceased, and the patient drank a glass of water without any difficulty. Notwithstanding hfemorrhage from the bowels, he continued to im- prove till the fifth day, when he was seized with acute pains and swelling of the wrists, knees, and elbows, and threatened with an extensive abscess of the leg, the consequence of the lodgment in the foot of two pieces of lancets broken in the attempt to bleed him, while he was suffering violent paroxysms in a previous stage of the disorder. Despondency and mental agitation again came on, and he died early on the ninth day from the ex- periment. On dissection, the swelled joints were found filled with pus, the mucous membrane of a part of the small intestines reddened by the expan- sion of veins, several small ulcerations in the ileum where it joins the caecum, the blood in a decidedly putrefied state, the heart and largo vessels distended with gas, air under the peritoneal coat of the sto- mach and intestines, posterior part of the lungs a little swelled, trachea sound, but the bronchi red. •Magendie considers this case on the whole very favourable to the practice; and when it is reflected that the patient underwent directly after the ex- periment a great and sudden change for the better, lived eight days after the injection, and then pos- sibly died rather from other accidental complaints, it must be acknowledged that the method seemed well deserving of further trials. I would also p.-u ticularly recommend its adoption in an earlier stage, and while the patient is less reduced, than the one on whom the experiment was made and failed in one of the Borough hospitals. By Dr. Rossi of Turin, the trial of galvanism was suggested (Aliberi, Nouveaucc Elbnens da Thtrapeutiqiie, t. ii. p. 436, ed. 4); yet the only fact brought forward as an encouragement to persevere with the last means, appears to a modern author, from its symptoms and progress, not to have been a true case of rabies. (Diet. cit. t. xlvii. p. 126.) The rapid and powerful effects of the bite of a viper on the whole system, and .'perhaps the idea that the operation of this animal's venom might counteract that of the hydrophobic virus, led some experimenters to try what would be the result of subjecting patients affected with rabies, to the bite of that kind of snake. The project however was attended with no success. Three cases of this description were communicated to the Royal Society of Medicine. (i7wi. p. 201.) Two additional ones were recorded by Dr. (Silibert, physician to the Hotel Dieu at Lyons. (Advers. Med. Pract. p. 257), and Virioel, surgeon of tlie same hospital, repeated the experiment on a child, which yet fell a victim to hydrophobia. Other trials are also said to have been made in France and Germany with no better success. Dr. De Matthiis, in the year 1783, let a viper bite a rabid dog on the throat. The dog's head was attacked with considerable swelling, the h)'drophobia ceased, and according to some accounts the animal per- fectly recovered, but according to other state- ments, though it drank freel}' as soon as its head had swelled, it only survived the experiment a few hours. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. t. xlvii. p. 126.) Some facts which occurred a few years ago in the East Indies, tended for a time to raise an ex pectation that a copious abstraction of blood might be the means of preserving patients actually attacked with this fatal disorder. Mr. lymon, assistant surgeon of the 22nd Light Dragoons, tried successfully the method of taking away at once an immense quantity of blood from the patient. " I began by bleeding him (says Mr. Tymon) until scarcely a pulsation could be felt in either arm." Opium was afterwards given and the patient salivated with mercury. (See Madras Gazelle, of Nov. 23, 1811.) [But blood-letting has been employed in thirty- four cases which ended fatallj'. In the six cases in which tranfusion of warm water has been em- ployed, it induced either high fever or great prostration ; two of the patients died very soon after the application of these proceedings, all the cases ended fatally. Common venesection, accord- ing to the observation of the greatest number of physicians, sometimes lessened the power of the spasmodic fits, probably by depressing the vital power, while it not uiifrequently increased the rapidity of their recurrence. Teale performed amputation of the bitten arm thirty hours after the bite, and removed once a linger from wliich