o 2 thickened and diseased, that he could not raise it iVom the subjacent parts, and he was obliged to make an opening in it. The protruding viscera were then pushed back, and, with a needle, a ligature was introduced under the artery, the peritoneum being also included in the ligature. Notwith- standing the disadvantageous method of operating, and the return of pulsation in the swelling, tlie patient had so far recovered in three months, that he had regained the use of the limb. (See Aineri can Med. and Phil. Rey. vol. iv. p. 443.) Botli the external iliac arteries of the same individual were tied in succession by Mr. Tait; one on the 8th of Ma}% 1825, and the other on the 16th of April, 1826; and this with entire success, not- withstanding the peritoneum was wounded in one of these operations. M. Arendt also took up both the external iliac arteries in one patient, and, though there was only an interval of a week be- tween the operations, the case had a very favour- able termination. (See Velpeau, Noiiv. Elem. de Med. Opti: t. i. p. 175.) In one remarkable case, Mr. Newbiggin, by ty- ing the external iliac artery, cured both an inguinal and a popliteal aneurism together. (See Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal for Jan. 1816, p. 71, &c.) The many operations, which have now been done on the external iliac artery, impress me with a conviction that, in subjects under "a certain age, there is no reason to fear that the anastomoses will not generally suffice for the supply of the lower extremity. Out of twenty-five cases the particu- lars of which I formerly collected, there were only three in which the limb was attacked by gan- grene. These three were patients of Sir A. Cooper, M. Bouchet of Lyons, and Mr. Collier. The proportion is not so much as one in eight. The three instances of gangrene were not all in the cir- cumstonces which permitted the event to be im- puted to the anastomoses not having had sufficient time to enlarge, though perhaps Mr. Collier's case was such. On the other hand, we are to notice that Dr. Cole's patient was operated upon a few days after the wound, and yet the limb was duly supplied with blood, and did not become gan- grenous. The same important facts were likewise exemplified in the remarkable case, where M. Velpeau was suddenly called upon to tie the ex- ternal iliac artery, which had been accidentally wounded with a knife. Plere, although there had been no preliminary dilatation of the collateral Tessels, either by a trial of pressure, or by the pre- sence of an aneurism, a ligature was at once put on the external iliac artery, with a perfectly successful result. (_S_ee Velpeau, Nouv. Elem. de Med. Oper. t. 1. p. 175.) It appears therefore to me, that the occasional occurrence of gangrene cannot be ad- mitted as a just reason for delay, until the col- lateral vessels have had time to enlarge. I believe, that in all anenrismal diseases, early ope- i^ting is the best and most judicious practice. This was one principal cause, as Kirkland ob- serves, which occasioned the bad success of the old surgeons in the treatment of popliteal aneurisms, and he foretold, mauy years ago, that operations lor the cure of aneurisms would answer bettor if not deferred so long as formerly. (See Thoui'ihh on Amputation, Sfc. 8vo. Lmul. 1780.) I j„i„ Kirkland in this sentiment, not without recollecting that all aneurisms are attended with a chance of getting well spontaneously in the course of-time ANEURISM. 195 I saw the inguinal aneurism which did so, under Dr. Albert, in the York Hospital; but as this is a rare incident, I do not believe that it ought to influence us against having speedy recourse to an operation. Besides, the cure by inflammation and sloughing appears to me to be attended in reality with more peril than a well executed operation, and, consequently, has less recommendations than many may imagine. Had not Dr. Albert's patient been a very strong man, he would certainly have fallen a victim to the extensive disease which the bursting and sloughing of the tumor created. Thus, Delaporte's patient died of the mass of disease which the tumor itself made; for it had been suifered to attain too large a size, so that, when it inflamed, the effects were fatal. (See Riclierand, Nosogr. Chir. t. iv. p. 113, edit. 4.) I believe Dr. Wilmot's observation is perfectly correct, that if a comparison were made between the operation of tying the external iliac artery and that of tying the artery in the thigh, we should find the recoveries after the first more frequent, in proportion to the number of times it has been done, than after common operations lower down. (See Dublin Hospital Rep. <J-c. vol. ii. p. 214.) [The results of the ligature of the external iliac artery are very favourable. According to Norris, of one hundred cases in which the vessel has been tied for aneurism, seventy-three have recovered, and twenty-seven died. The most frequent cause of death was gangrene of the limb, and next to that secondary hemorrhage. Pulsation recurred in six cases, but one of these proved fatal; and suppuration of the sac happened in thirteen instances, of which three had a fatal result.] The greatest artery that conveys blood into the lower extremity, after the external iliac has been tied, IS the gluteal: but besides it, the ischiatio, the obturator, and the external pudic, which anas- tomoses freely with the internal pudic, are impor- tant vessels in keeping up the circulation. In one case, operated upon by Mr. J. C. War- ren, the epigastric artery arose from the anterior and inner part of the sac, and gave origin to the obturator, while the circumflexa ilii originated from the outer part of the sac. All these vessels were greatly enlarged, and the epigastric rendered the necessary detachment of the external iliac very difficult. (See New England Jonrn.) Some particulars of inguinal aneurisms, in which Sir A. Cooper, Mr. James, and Mr. Murray tied the aorta, will be hereafter noticed. (See Aohta ) Roscnmullcr's Chir. Anat.; Tiedcniann's Tabii 'lcB Arteriarum, Carlsruha;, 1822; the plates in Scarpa's great work, S^dl Aneurisma Rejicssioni, &c. Par 1804 ; J. P. Manec, De la Lu/ature des A rteres pi. ix.; and Elias Bujaldy's TabulcB Anat. Chir Petropol, 1828, tab. x. et xi., in illustration of the operation of tying the external iliac artery all merit notice. Under the head of Arteribs] ad- ditional instructions will be offered on the mode of taking up the external iliac artery. Cases op Gluteal Aneurism cured by tying THE Internal Iliac Artery. The gluteal artery is large; from its situation, liable to wounds ; from its size, subject to aneurism. Dr. .leffray, of Glasgow, was consulted in a case where the gluteal artery had been wounded, and an aneurism resulted. He urged the propriety of