1040 HYDROCELE. Independently of the diagnosis, there are otlier advantages in it, for the exact position of the testicle can always be ascertained; and this is of the more importance in the encysted form of hydrocele, or where there is inversion of the testicle, so that the risk of injury may be avoided. It is usual to examine a hydrocele in a dark room, with a lighted candle, the tumor being thrust for- ward by the hand grasping it from behind, whilst the edge of the other hand is applied to the front of the tumor in order to intercept the liglit from the candle. A common stethoscope is often em- ployed to detect the position of the testicle. Segalas recommended the use of a tube in doubtful cases. In old hj^droceles the sac is often very much thickened, together with the surrounding tissues. It is occasionally indurated, and in the lapse of years becomes apparently ossified. These altera- tions have been attributed to the effusion of fibrin on the parietal portion of the tunica vaginalis. Cartilaginous and calcareous concretions are some- times found in the fluid in long existing examples of the disease. They have been observed by Sir A. Cooper, Curling, Laennec, Gosselin, and many others. The glandular structure of the testicle is usually sound, although it may have become flat- tened by the compressed fluid.] Occasionally the tumor is constricted in its middle, so as to present the hour-glass shape. This is the hydrocele en bissac of French pathologists. The two portions for a certain time communicate, but at length, the opening between them may become obliterated. [This peculiarity is observable in children after birth, from the tunica vaginalis being unobliterated for some distance along the cord, The contraction is found just above the testicle, corresponding to the point where the obliteration of peritoneum usually takes place.] A gentleman applied to Sir B. Brodie with an hour- glass hydrocele. The water was drawn off from the lower part, and in doing that, it emptied also the upper. A year later the operation was re- peated, but now the tumor formed two distinct compartments, the constriction having completely obliterated the communication. Another puncture was therefore requisite. (Sir B. Brodie, Lond. Med. Gaz. for 1833-34, p. 91.) [A somewhat similar contraction is sometimes produced by bands of adhesions between the surfaces of the tunica vaginalis. In consequence of the sac and its in- vesting tissues yielding unequally to the pressure of the fluid, the surface of the tumor, instead of being smooth and even, may be more or less irre- gular and unequal. The fluctuation will be found to vary according to the quantity of fluid, and the thickness or thinness of the vaginal coat. The size of the hydrocele has been noticed to vary, being larger and more tense in the after part of the day than in the morning, and this has depended upon some slight absorption during the night, when the parts have lain at rest.] From the prominence of the tumor it is very liable to bo ruptured by an accidental blow, and if a blood-vessel is burst, the hydrocele is converted into a ha:matocele. (See II^matocelk). In other instances, the fluid simply escapes into the areolar tissue, and the swelling subsides. Sir B. Brodie relates a case in which these circumstances happened, but the disease returned, and was afterwards cured in the usual way. Bertrandi and Sabatier have known a cure follow Violent efforts in coughing, or expel- ling the urine. Loder records a cure which arose from the tunica vaginalis being burst by the kick of a horse. Similar facts are cited by MM. Boyer, Serre, and Bertrandi. In a case under M. Roux, on the day fixed for tapping the hydrocele, the fluid had all disappeared. (See Al/. Felpeau, Nouv. Elem. de Mid. Oper. t. iii. p. 511.) [Although the diagnosis of a hydrocele may ge- nerally be made out with facility, it is'nevertheleis liable to be confounded with various tumors of the testicle, of which medullary cancer is one of the more important, and also with inguinal hernia, and ha:- matocele. In malignant disease of the testicle " the progress of the malady, the absence of pain, the regularity in the form and extent of the swel- ling, and the appearances of fluctuation in the degenerated gland, might sometimes give rise ta error. The following signs, however, will help us to recognise the true nature of the disease : — in cancer, besides softened spots, we find others harder again, which do not occupy the position of the tes- ticle, and throughout which pressure does not produce that active pain which ensues when the testicle is compressed ; a hydrocele ia transparent, whereas a cancerous tumor is opaque." (See Nelaton, Path. Chir. t. v. p. 611.) Sometimes it is almost impossible to distinguish between the two, notwithstanding these precautions; such cases have occurred to Dupuytren, Curling, and others. In obscure cases it is recommended to introduce a grooved needle or fine trocar into the swelling, when, if the case be hydrocele, the escape of fluid would at once manifest the nature of the disease. The case of Mr. Curling was an indolent tumor of small size in the scrotum of an old man ; it was irregular and uneven, felt solid, and weighed heavy, and it was uncertain whether it was morbid enlargement of the gland, a htematocele, or a hy- drocele with the sac unusually thickened and indu- rated. He died of disease of the chest, and the tumor was found to be a hydrocele, the sac of which was lined with a thick and very dense false membrane, and contained a soft oleaginous sub- stance, consisting chiefly of cholesterine. The difficulty of diagnosis, in cases of cartilaginous thickening of the tunica vaginalis, has been well attested by Dupuytren. In inguinal hernia the tumor is developed at the ring, and gradually descends, whereas in hy- drocele the swelling commences at the lower part of the scrotum. The spermatic cord is felt above the tumor, but in hernia it is either traced along the back of the swelling, or not at all observed. The testicle cannot be felt distinctly in hydrocele, but in hernia the gland can be readily perceived at the bottom of the swelling; and,las-tlj', in hydrocele there is no impulse on coughing, and the tumor mostly remains of one size. (See Hernia.) The diagnosis between hydrocele and hoematocele is oftentimes extremely difiicult, but transparency docs not exist in the latter, and the surgeon will be guided in some measure by the patient's pre- vious history. (See ILismatocele.)] Independently of the diagnosis between a hj-- drocelo and the affections already named, it must bo remembered that it may be complicated with disease of the testis, hernia, cirsocele, hydrocele ot a hernial sac, or encysted hydrocele of the cord. A collection of fluid in the tunica vng'nans, complicated with chronic induration and eniaig