HERNIA. 971 tempta by the process of gangrene." If the intes- tine has already given way, a free division of the integuments and sac allows the exit of the accu- mulated matter; and the opening in the gut may he enlarged, if necessary. {On Ruptures, p. 299, ed. 4.) By such treatment, Sir Astley Cooper rescued from the grave a female, who was pregnant at the time of the operation, and was some months afterwards safely delivered. {On Abdominal Her- nia, part i. p. 49, ed. 2.) In cases of mortification of the protruded bowel the division of the stricture is unnecessary, since all the mischief which the bowel can receive from it is done. This subject is well explained by Mr. Travers. (See Inq. into the Process of Nature in repairing Injuries of the Intestines, i^c. p. 300, &c.) Mild purgatives and clysters will be proper to unload the bowels, and determine the course of the faeces towards the anus. Should, however, the stricture appear, after the mortification, to impede the free escape of the intestinal contents, a mode- rate dilatation of it must undoubtedly be proper. Mr. Lawrence has clearly exposed the impro- priety of sewing the ends of the intestinal canal together, introducing one within the other, sup- ported by a cylinder of isinglass, &c. put into their cavity, in those cases in which the whole circle of the intestine has mortified and been cut away, as was advised by former writers. By drawing the intestine out of the cavity, in order to remove the dead part, the adhesions behind the ring, on which the prospect of a cure chiefly depends, must be entirely destroyed; and new imtation and inflam- mation must be miavoidably produced, by hand- ling and sewing an inflamed part. The adhesions would even be likely to render the scheme im- practicable, as happened in a case related in the Joum. de M. Le Roux, t. xxi. p. 260. {On Rup- tures, p. 314, ed. 4.) Instead of such practice, Mr. Lawrence judi- ciously recommends dilating the stricture, and leaving the subsequent progress of the cure en- tirely to nature. The sloughs will be cast off, and the ends of the gut are retained by the adhesive process in a state of apposition to each other, the most favourable for their union. Thus, there is a chance of the continuity of the intestinal canal be- coming established again. Whatever experiments it may be allowable to make in wounds combined with protrusion and divi- sion of the bowels, nothing, I think, is now more completely established, than the absurdity and dan- ger of attempting to stitch the bowels in cases of hernia. Opkration pon large Inguinal Herni/e. When the tumor is of long standing, exceedinglj' large, perhaps extending half way down to the knees, and its contents have never admitted of beingcompletely reduced, the indication is to divide the stricture, provided a strangulation take place; but without laying open the hernial sac, or at- tempting to reducer the part. The reasons against the common plan of oper- ating, under such circumstances, are, the difficulty of separating all the old adhesions, the hazardous inflammation which would be excited by laying open so vast a tumor, and the probability that parts, so long protruded, might even bring on serious complaints, if reduced. J. L, Petit, and, afterwards. Dr. Monro, advised the sac not to be opened. (See Mai, CJdr. t. ii. p. 372 ; Description of Burses MuootcB, 1788.) Mr. Lawrence recom- mends an incision of two or three inches in length to be made through the integuments over the ab- dominal ring. The fascia covering the hernial sac is then to be exposed by dissection, and an opening made in it. This will permit a grooved director to be put under the tendon 5 and the probe-pointed bistoury may be conducted, by means of the groove, to the part that requires di- vision. If great difficulty should be experienced in accomplishing our object in this manner, a small aperture may be made in the sac near the ring, when the tendon maybe divided with ease. The parts, after being thus liberated, should be returned into the belly by pressure on the swelling, if ad- hesions do not prevent it : at all events, they gene- rally admit of being replaced in part. {Lawrence, On Ruptures, p. 269, ed. 4.) A very interesting case has been recorded, in which the foregoing advice was deviated from, and a large scrotal hernia laid open; when it was found that nearly a foot of the colon was contained in the swelling, and could not be reduced. The integuments could not cover it; yet its surface granulated, the skin extended itself as the cicatrix contracted, over the swelling, which also diminished, and, in about six weeks, the cure was completed. (See Joum. of Foreign Med. No. xv. p. 460.) Operation when the Hernia is so small that it does not protrude externally THROUGH THE RiNG. In this kind of case, there is little appearance of external tumor; consequently the disease is likely to be overlooked by the patient and surgeon, and some other cause assigned for the series of sym- ptoms. The manner of operating, in this form of the disease, differs from that in the common scrotal hernia : the incision is to be made in the direction of the spermatic cord, and the stricture will be found at the internal ring. (^A. Cooper, On Inguinal Hernia.) [The coverings of the hernia will be the tendon of the external oblique, the cremaster muscle, and more or less of the fleshy fibres of the internal ob- lique and transversalis muscles ; and lastly, the transversalis fascia; these must, of course, be di- vided.] Treatment after the Operation. Evacuations from the bowels should be imme- diately promoted by means of clysters, oleum ricini, or small doses of sulphate of magnesia, dis- solved in peppermint water; but the patient should not be allowed to quit the recumbent position, or grt on the night-stool, as doing so is apt to bring on a protrusion of the bowels again. (See case in jAincct, vol. ii. p. 148.) Tlie safest plan is to let some- thing be put under the patient for the reception of the fa:ccs. In the course of another day, if cos- tivencss return after the effects of the first medi- cines, and tenderness and tension of the belly come on, local and general bleeding, with tlie exhibition of liberal doses of calomel joined with opium, are strongly indicated. For some time the diet is to be low. When symptoms of inflammation of the bowels and peritoneum threaten the patient, ge- neral bleeding, leeches on the abdomen, foment- ations, blisters, doses of the oleum ricini, and