a hollow sponge in readiness, moistened with a juixture of chlorofom and spirit, and holding it new the face whenever the hands of the operator aiid his assistants atl'ord room, the patient can be rendered so far insensible that he does not remem- ber the operation. The patient should not be made very deeply insensible in operations involving the mouth ornose, audaccompanied with great bleeding. He may, however, be with safety made so insen- sible as not to have pain, provided all the facilities are given for getting rid of the blood that would be allowed in the waking state. The glottis retains its sensibility under the influence of antesthetic agents if their effects are not carried to an extreme degree ; but a patient when awake cannot breathe with more than a certain amount of blood in the fauces, therefore, as he eminot, when insensible, push away his. surgeon and hold his head down, it must be held down occasionally, when the quantity of blood is such as to require it. A litde blood is liable to get into the trachea in great operations about the mouth, whether tlie patient is insensible or not, and in either case it is coughed up again. There is no evidence of any harm having resulted from blood flowing into the windpipe in operations about the mouth. One patient died about an hour after the removal of the greater part of a tiunor of the upper jaw and neighbouring bones, so much of it as could be reached ; but his symptoms were those of exhaustion from loss of blood; and after death only a few small spots of blood were found in the lungs, and this small quantity apparently entered whilst he was mori- bund, for some hemorrhage continued to the time of death. Some of the blood is nearly always swallowed in operations about the mouth ; this is generally the case in tooth drawing under the influence of chloroform, as is proved in the cases in which the patient afterwards vomits. Chloroform and sulphuric ether are of great ser- vice in the reduction of dislocations, more particu- larly those of long standing ; not only by the prevention of the pain, but by removing, or greatly diminishing, the resistance of the muscles. Some dislocations of the shoulder have been completely re- duced, as long as five months after the accident, with the aid of these agents. There are other operations not unfrequently performed of late, under the in- fluence of anaesthetics, which the surgeon could hardly have proposed without their aid ; namely, the forcible breaking down of adhesions produced by disease of the joints. In a few cases also the operation for hernia has been prevented by the use of ana:3thetic3 ; the taxis having been successful under their use, after it had previously failed. AnjEsthetic agents may be administered safely, and with great advantage, to patients who have to un- dergo operations in a state of great debility, either from disease or severe injury. The local application of ice and salt, so much advocated by Dr. James Arnott, is capable of preventing the pain of those operations which do not go deeper than the skin. The ice should bo well pounded and intimately mixed with the salt, then put into a piece of muslin, and applied to the' part to bo operated on. The effect is generally produced in from three to five minutes, and is known by the skin becoming very white and as firm as stearino. There is some pain during the application of the frigorific, and still more as the skin IS recovering its sensibility, but this last can ANAESTHESIA. 139 be moderated by the application of iced water. When the operation extends to the tissues beneath the skin, pain is experienced. It was not to be expected that the use of iinajs- thetic agents should make any great difference in the ultimate result of important operations. The fact of a multitude of patients inhaling these agents for minor operations, without ill effects, shows that they are not injurious to the health ; and this being the case, the prevention of the paiu of great operations cannot be otherwise than beneficial. The satisfactory condition in which a patient is generally found just after an operation -without pain, confirms this view; at the same time it must be remembered that death ■^^■as seldom due to the immediate effects of an operation .before ancesthe- tics were employed, but to causes which came into action after the operation, and which are still in force. There are no very extensive or trustworthy statistics of the results, even of amputations, before the employment of anffisthetics, to compare with the present results of these operations, and if there were, it would be necessary to bear in mind that the very introduction of these agents has, in many cases, altered the conditions under which operations are performed. On the one hand, the patient often gives his consent to an operation at an earlier and more favourable period than he would do if he had to submit to the pain, and on the other, the surgeon sometimes recommends an operation when the prospect of success is so small that it would hardly counterbalance the evil of the pain, if that could not be prevented. The progress of surgery has also altered the circumstances" under which operations are performed ; resection of the larger jomts being often performed now in cases where amputation would formerly have taken place. This change of practice is itself very much due to the introduction of ana>sthetics. The most unex- ceptionable way of endeavouring to ascertain whether any, and if so, what influence has been exerted on the result of large operations by the use ol ancesthetics, is to examine the result of these operations for a series of years in the same insti- tution, before the use of these agents and afterwards. iJr. I'enwick made an extensive inquiry of this kind into the results of all the important operations in the Newcastle Infirmary, for a number of years before the use of ether and chloroform, and for the period during which these agents have "been in use and the comparison is, on the whole, decidedly in favour of the latter period. The writer of this article has not kept an account ot all the cases in which he has administered chloro- torm, but he finds, nevertheless, that he has mo moranda of rather more than three thousand ciMit hundred surgical operations in which he has cx- nn it. 1L i f ^V-f '''='='1 selected cases ■ on the other hand whilst he has not declined to admmister chloroform in any instance in Xh a surgical operation was required, he has been con^ u ted ,n a great number of cases, and has unSer- "t'uV^ '"edical men ad hesitated to do so, on account of disease of ho heart, of great debility, or some other cmL for the writer has, after giving the subject his care! tul consideration, acted on the principle that chlo- roform, when carefully administered is, under all circumstances, less likely to be injurious than severe pain. With this amount and kind of prac- tice the writer has lost but one patient whilst in-