330 BLOOD, PATHOLOGY OF. tions of tlio blood tird often of the most malignant and fatal character ; and when the vitality of the blood itself is destroyed instantaneous death is the inevitable result. Morbid states of the Blood may be referred to: — 1. Changes of constitution in relation to the quantity existing in the vessels. 2. Changes in relation to its motion and distribution. 3. Modi- fications as respects its elementary constituents- 4. Modifications in the proportions and chemical and vital qualities of its proximate constituents. 5, Pathological states from the retention or ab- sorption of substances developed in the processes of hcematosis, secretion, and nutrition. 6. Patho logical states produced by substances totally foreign to the economy, formed in the blood itself, or intro- duced by absorption, respiration or otherwise. 1. As to quantUy.—The production of a greater quantity of blood than necessary for the purposes of respiration, nutrition, and secretion, is a primary pathological condition to which some individuals appear to have an inherent tendency ; it is also frequently the result of too great repletion com- bined with inactivity, and other causes, and often operates as a permanent source of excitation of the solids, and as a predisposing cause of many diseases. A diminution of blood in the system, owing to di- rect loss, starvation, and other causes, is also a pri- mary pathological condition. Excess or deficiency of blood in the vessels may be general or local ; but the quantity cannot be increased or diminished without some change taking place in the composi- tion and vital qualities of the fluid. When he- morrhage, for instance, proceeds from an open ves- sel, the blood remaining in the system undergoes a rapid diminution of density, owing to a considerable diminution in the proportion of its red corpuscles ; the liquor sanguinis also becoming somewhat more dilute, but the proportion of fibrin being little or not at all affected. This is owing to the absorption of aqueous and parenchymatous fluids from the tissues, which commences the moment the blood is abstracted, and is probably the result of diminished pressure and increased rapidity of current. Ab- stinence and exhausting diseases have similar re- sults. The effects produced by the blood in excess or deficiency on the organs of circulation, the ner- vous system, and the functions of life, depend, in great measure, on these modifications, which must be taken into consideration in connection with the effects of alteration of volume. The circulation in the capillaries depending on other influences besides the action of the heart, a preternatural accumula- tion of blood may take place in these vessels, both in the subjects of an excess or of a deficiency of blood in the vascular system generally, and in this case also the qualities of the blood become changed. These pathological conditions are treated of under their respective heads. (See ANiUMiA, HjEmor- RHAGE, Hyi'er/emia, Plethora.) 2. As to molion and distrilmtion,—The move- ment of the mass of blood in the vessels throughout the body being essential to its functions, and ne- cessarily related to the activity of respiration, nu- trition, and Bccreiion, morbid conditions of the blood itself, and a disturljanco of the functions of life, may be produced by iiny cause which accele- rates, retards, or arrests these movements, or any cause which disturbs the equilibrium of tlie circu- lation in the different parts of the body. The ac- tion of stimulants.or inordinate exercise, for instance. accelerates the motion of the blood, and increases its fibrinous quality. All the causes which pro- duce a languid motion, either generally or in par- ticular parts of the circulation, or an arrest of the current of blood, may lead, by chemical reactions, to a disturbance of its vital constitution, or to co- agulation and a separation of clot and serum, even in the living vessels. Disturbance of the circula- tion in the capillaries often produces an accumula- tion of a larger number of red and white corpuscles in a vessel—one of the conditions of congestion. These corpuscles become grouped together into masses, and apply themselves to the walls, dis- placing the parietal layer of the liquor sanguinis, and taking on a retrograde and oscillatory motion, which becomes gradually weaker until a complete stasis is established. During the formation of such a stasis, and subsequently, the endosmotic and ex- osmotic functions of the vessels are changed, the qualities of the blood altered, and pathological trans- udations supersede physiological cytoblastemata. Stagnation of blood, especially after extravasation, results ultimately in its death and decomposition, and occasionally in granulation or crystallisation. (See Blood, Coagulation of ; Blood, Cry- stallisation OP ; Hyperinosis ; Necr«mia.) 3. As to the elenmitary consiiliients.—A prepon- derance or deficiency of some of the elements may constitute, or be essentially associated with, disease of the blood. Analysis has at present furnished but few facts. Oxygen, one of these elements, when received into the blood, never remains pas- sive ; inhaled in excess it increases the quantity of fibrin ; and by making an animal breathe in a free current of oxygen gas, a state of active hyperi- nosis is artificially produced, and fibrinous clots are deposited in the heart and blood-vessels. {Rich- ardson, lib. cit. p. 71—80.) Excessive oxygenation of the protein compounds of the blood is produced directly, by the oxygen of the air, during increased activity of the respiration, and especially in certain states of the atmosphere. A deficiency of some of those principles with which the oxygen respired ought to combine, as the hydrocarbons of the food, or substances prepared for oxydation by the organs as the blood passes through them, as the sugar of the hepatic blood, also leads to the same result. Again : there may be a deficiency of oxygen in relation to these substances. A deficiency of iron exists in chlorosis and anfemia ; and the former disease is cured by the addition of this element to the blood. In this case, want of iron corresponds with a diminution of red corpuscles, and iron cures the disease by increasing this organised constituent. In practice, the proportion of red corpuscles is more readilj' estimated than that of the iron ; hence we look to the corpuscles as the exponent of the con- dition of the blood. A deficiency in the assimila- tion of lime is the foundation of n deficiencj' of bonc-earth, in various diseases of the bones, and is sometimes the cause of the non-union of fractures. Nitroyen and hydrogen, in the form of ammonia or its salts, occur in excess in various diseased states of the blood. The influence of am- monia has been investigated by Dr. Richardson (lib. cit.) who believes that the blood owes its (luidity during life to this alkali holding the fibrin in solution, and that the separation of am- monia is the cause of coagulation. Ammonia is most probably produced synthetically during the destructive metamorphoses of the nitrogenous