DISLOCATION. 532 some time, and tlieh by a more forcible extension, the head of the bone slipped into its socket with a snap. An effort at the reduction by one man on the towel had previously failed." (See Lond. Med. Gaz. 1832, 1833, p. 479.) The case in tJniversity College Hospital was reduced by Mr, Morton with the utmost facility. [In the four cases seen by Mr. S. Lane, which have been before alluded to, the reduction was accomplished without difficulty by placing one hand at the back of the shoulder, to press the head of the bone forwards, while the other hand was applied to the front of the joint to press the clavicle and scapula in the opposite direction. An assistant at the same time made slight extension upon the limb at right angles to the trunk. A very similar method is advised by M. Malgaigne, who believes, that direct pressure with the thumbs upon the displaced head of the bone, aided by counter-pres- sure on the front of the shoulder with the other fingers, will suffice in the majority of cases. The pressure may first be made somewhat in the out- ward direction, to dislodge the head of the bone from behind the glenoid cavitj', and this will perhaps be facilitated by rotating the limb inwards at the same time. If the resistance is great, it it will probably be overcome by slightly elevating the elbow and carrying it hackivards. In a case in which the arm had been moved freely by Boyer in the upward, downward, and forward directions without benefit, reduction immediately took place when it was carried forcibly backwards. The dis- location having recurred, it was reduced a second time with great facility by M. Fizeau, by carrying the lower end of the humerus backwards with one hand, while he pressed the head of the bone for- wards with the other. (See Malgaigne, Traite des Fract. 4'c. t. ii. pp. 539, 540.)] An important fact, noticed by M. Malgaigne, and exemplified at the Hotel-Dieu, is, that after an old dislocation of the shoulder has been reduced, the arm may still remain longer than the other, and the head of the humerus rather more below the acromion. (See Dupuytre7i, Clin. Cliir. t. iii. p. 90.) The circumstance is ascribed to the di- minution of the depth and capacity of the glenoid cavity, and other pathological changes. [In a case of dislocation of the humerus of four months' standing reduced by M. Malgaigne with the pulleys, the reality of the reduction was doubted by another surgeon, in consequence of the head of the humerus projecting somewhat more fonvards than on the sound side, and considerably more than after the reduction of a recent disloca- tion. Five months after the reduction, however, the patient had full use of her arm. He had also observed that in the dislocation backwards reduced after a long period, a slight posterior projection remains. If the dislocation has not been very old, these projections may disappear afterwards ; but Bometimes they persist, without however the re- duction having been incomplete, or the limb being prevented from recovering its motions. (See liev. Mid. Chir. vol. viii. p. 314, 1851.) Sir A. Cooper thought that three months might be fixed as the period beyond which it would bo imprudent to make the attempt at reduction. Many cases, however, have been placed on record, where it has been effected at a much later period than this. M. Malgaigne succeeded at five months; M. Roux at six months ; Mr. Lane, in St. Mary's Hos- pital, at six months ; Flajani at seven months: and many other instances might be mentioned. A very remarkable case occurred, in the practice of Dr. Nathan Smith of Connecticut, of dislocation of both humeri into the axilla, from puerperal convulsions; in this instance, one side was reduced at seven months and a half, and the other at ten months and a half. Dieffenbach reduced a dislocation forwards, under the clavicle, after an interval of two years, by the aid of subcutaneous incisions. 'Extension and counter-extension being made by assistants, he first divided the most tense portion of the pectoralis major close to its tendon. Then introducing the knife at the posterior border of the axilla, he divided the latissimus dorsi and teres major and minor muscles. He then passed the knife in at three places by the head of the humerus, and divided in a similar way, under the skin, the dense and hard false ligaments which surrounded the new joint; after which, by the aid of powerful extension, he conducted the humerus towards the joint, into which it suddenly slipped, without again springing out. No unpleasant symptom ensued, and the functions of the limb were perfectly restored. (See Lancet, May .9, 1840.) Mr. Bransby Cooper thinks that in judging of the propriety of the attempt at reduction of a dislo- cated limb, a better criterion than mere length of time since the accident will be found in the precise condition of the new joint, especially as to the de- gree of motion of which it is capable. If any useful motion can be performed, it m9.y be considered as ill-judged to attempt to restore the dislocated bone to its former articulating cavity, for it seems invariably to happen that as a new joint becomes fitted for use, so the structures of the old one are rendered incompetent to restoration. Where con- tinued efforts have been made to use the limb, and a useful motion acquired, more permanent injury is likely to be sustained by the restoration of thebone to its original situation, than if it be allowed to remain, and means be employed to perfect the adaptation of recently formed structures. It is necessary to mention that great mischief has resulted from too violent or too prolonged ex- tension, and this sometimes in recent dislocations as well as in those of long standing. The integu- ments have been extensively lacerated, muscles have been torn through, and suppuration in and around the joint has taken place. M. Malgaigne mentions as many as twelve cases of rupture of the axillary artery, the great majority of which terminated fatally, although one recovered after ligature of the subclavian artery. Partial or complete paralysis from injury done to the nerves has also been observed, and in one case, which of course terminated fatally, four of the nerves of the brachial plexus were torn out from the spinal marrow by the roots.] [Congenital dislocations of the slioMer.—Many of the cases which have been described as congeni- tal dislocations of the shoulder, have probably depended upon paralysis of the limb, existing at birth, or occurring at an early age. In these dis- locations, dependent upon paralysis, the shoulder is flattened, the deltoid and scapular muscles are atrophied, and tlie capsular ligament is elongated, and allows the head of the bone to leave the glenoid cavity, but it can be readily replaced, and the na- tural form of the joint is to a certain extent restored.