perience but little inconvenience until the hydro- cele has attained a large size. The patient's feel- ings will, ill the majority of cases, be the best guide for a repetition of the operation. It seems to be admitted, on all hands, that the palliative cure is the most suitable for very old persons.] Various Plans for the Radical Cure, External Applications.—[These are found to be successful in very young children, and succeed in nine cases out of ten, according to Sir B. Brodie; but in adults tliey mostly fail. Mr. Keate recom- mended, in 1788, a lotion of an ounce of hydro- chlorate of ammonia, four ounces of distilled vine- gar, and six ounces of water. This, or painting the scrotum with tincture of iodine, will generally cause the absorption of the fluid; but it sliould be conjoined with support to the scrotum, by means of a bandage. If this is not successful in children, it is recommended to puncture the sac with a cata- ract needle in two or three places, and allow the fluid to run into the areolar tissue of the scro- tum. In adults, the cure of hydrocele has been at- tempted by highly stimulating lotions and lini- ments, frictions with iodine, tartar emetic, and mercurial ointments, and the repeated application of blisters to the scrotum. Dupuytren once suc- ceeded in curing a hydrocele by blisters; Sir Astley Cooper tried blistering repeatedly, without a cure; and Mr. Curling has applied blisters and the mercurial liniment in many cases, but without success.] Veipeau saw two hydroceles cured by the muriate of ammonia lotion and frictions with mercurial liniment. I believe with him, that in general such treatment will succeed when the hj-drocele is recent, and has arisen from an exter- nal injury, or in children; or when hydrocele is the result of inflammation of the testis the plan will answer {Sir A. Cooper). [Dr. Hudson cured a hj^drocele after puncture and other means had failed, by the use of tartar emetic ointment for two weeks; the inflammation produced effected a cure. ( A mar, Journ. Med. Sciences, 1855.) Dr. Lorenzo Rossi, of Venice, has cured hydrocele by compressing the layers of the timica vaginalis, by means of plates of lead, leaving the testicle and cord quite free. Punctures had failed before compression was resorted to. (See Lancet, vol. i. for 1848, p. 314.) M. P^trequin, of Lyons, has cured hydro- cele by electricity. (See Gaz. Med. Jan. 1859.) The want of success which attends external appli- cations, unless in certain solitary instances, is a serious objection to their employment, besides the loss of time which this mode of treatment occasions. In young children, however, it commonly cures.] Of other methods which have been resorted to for the permanent cure, besides external applica- tions, may be mentioned acupuncture, incision, ex- cision, the application of caustics, the introduction of a tent, the use of a seton, and the injection of various stimulating fluids into the tunica vaginalis. Some of these are now exploded ; some are practised by a few with success, but with much sutlering; some are uncertain; while others are recommended both by their mildness and general success. Acupuncture.—[This plan was first suggested by Mr. Cumin, of Glasgow, who recommended it to be done by means of a cataract needle, intro- duced between the cavity of the tunica vaginalis and the areolar tittaue of the scrotum. He did not, HYDROCELE. 1043 however, actually treat a single case.] Mr. Lewis , was the first surgeon who recommended it on the ground of its practical utility in effecting a radical cure. He punctured the hydrocele with a fine needle, until a drop of fluid oozed out on withdrawing it, and in three days (says he) the hydrocele will completely disappear. In fifty cases thi re was not a single failure. (See Lancet, vol. i, 1836—37, p. 559.) [The absence of danger, the slow re-accumulation of fluid, and the simpli- city of the operation, are the advantages which he considers to be obtained by this mode over the operation of removing the fluid at once. Dr. Lan- yon has treated a number of cases by Lewis's plan with a radical cure. (See Lancet, vol. i. 1847, p. 199.) Mr. Curling employs a common cataract needle, introduced in two or three places, rotating the instrument between the finger and thumb, to render the openings in the sac sufficiently pa- tent. " In the course of a few hours the scrotal swelling becomes a good deal changed, and instead of a tense, smooth, and defined tumor, presents an oedematous tumefaction, with a soft, doughj-, and inelastic feel. In large hydroceles the cederaa ex- tends to the integuments of the penis." (Op. cit.) The efi'used serum gradually disappears, in from three days to a week.] I tried the plan of Mr. Lewis once in University College Hospital, but it required to be repeated several times, and the tumor was a long time in disappearing. I attended a clergyman who had a hydrocele, and, in attempt- ing to introduce the trocar and canula into the tunica vaginalis, the canula was stopped by its edge being too thick; and, on withdrawing the instru- ment, the serous fluid passed into the cellular tissue. The fluid was absorbed, and did not col- lect again. In Germany, as I am informed, acur puncture for the radical cure of hydrocele is followed up by the plan of making considerable but equable pressure on the scrotum, with com- presses and a bandage, whereby the fluid is made to escape more certainly into the cellular tissue. [Dr. Linhart adopts subcutaneous incision in children, and allows the fluid to become elfused into the scro- tum. "A fold of the scrotum should be raised, and a concave tenotomy knife passed in front, between the scrotal skin and the serous sac, so as to make an incision of from one to one and a half inches in length, in the processus vaginalis. (See Frorieps, Notizen, 1856, vol. ii. No. 4.)] The attempt to cure hydrocele by acupuncture is not new; my friend, Mr. Robert Keate, having found in the Medical Gazette for Feb. 1837, p. 739, that it was tried twenty years ago by a physician on himself, and \\\t\\ a perfectly successful result. [It has been tried by Mr. Keate, Mr. Travers, Mr. Curling, Mr, Stanley, and many other surgeons both in hospital and private practice, with a varying amount of success; and although it is perhaps the mildest plan of all, it is uncertain in its results. It is a useful addition to our other remedial means, but cannot supersede the trocar. Yet it is likely to bo generally useful in children. Mr. Curling refers to a patient under Mr. Luke, who was about to proceed to a place in South America, where there was no surgeon nearer than 400 or 500 miles, who was instructed to perform this simple and harmless operation on himself.] Incision.—Making an incision so as to lay open the cavity containing the fluid, is the most ancient method, being described by Celsus. Paulus 3x2