CESAREAN OPERATION operate wlieii the pelvis was from two to two ' inches and a half in diameter. He relates a case where the diameter was not beyond two inches, in which he delivered by embryotomy on two occa- sions, but in which the Cajsarean section was alterwards performed twice successfully, and once under his own sanction. Dr. Churchill observes, we may safely conclude that when from any cause, the antero posterior diameter of the upper outlet or the transverse diameter of the lower is not more than one inch and a half there is no possibility of delivery "per vias naturales," but that we must have recourse to the Caesarean section. Dr. Ramsboiham considers the Caesarean section the only alternative in labour at the full term, when the antero posterior diameter is one inch and three eighths, and three inches and a half at the brim laterally, or with an antero posterior diameter of an inch and a half by three inches. According to Dr. Tyler Smith the limits of the performance of the Caesarean section only ranges between a two inch diameter of pelvis from deformity, and its en- tire occlusion from exostosis, or if cases can ever occur in which the operation is necessary above two inches, they are cases in which death is threatened or certain before the lengthened opera- tion of embryotomy could be completed. ] But how are we to form a judgment respecting the dimensions of the pelvis.' And how can we know, whether that diameter, which extends from the prominence of the sacrum to the os pubis, is long enough to allow the passage of the child ? In order to acquire more correct opinions, double compasses have been employed. The branches of the first being applied to the top of the sacrum, and middle of the mens veneris, three inches are to be deducted from the dimensions indi- cated by the instrument; viz. two inches and a half for the thickness of the upper part of the sacrum (which is said to be constant in subjects of every size), and half an inch for that of the os pubis. In women who are exceedingly fat, some lines must also be deducted on this account. Hence, when the total thickness of the pelvis, mea- sured in this direction, is five inches, there will re- main two for the distance from the upper part of the sacrum to the os pubis, or for the extent of the lesser diameter of the upper aperture of the pelvis. For taking the measurement internally, a kind of sector was invented by Coutouly. It bears a Mnsiderablc resemblance to the instruments em- ployed by shoemakers for measuring the feet. It is passed into the vagina, with its two branches ap- proxnnated, until one arrives opposite the anterior ind upper part of the sacrum, when the other is to oe drawn outward, so as to be applied to the pubes. Ihe distance between the branches is judged of bv ;he graduations on the instrument. This was named ly Its inventor a pelvimeter. According to Sabatier t IS not always easy to place it with accuracy its imployment is attended with some pain ; and tiiere ire particular cases in which it cannot be used. Instead of this contrivance, Baudelocque re- onimended a means which is safe and simple he index finger of one hand is introduced into the agina to the upper part of the projection of the icrura. The finger, having the radial edge turned irwards, is then to be inclined anterioily till it inches the arch of the pubes. The point of con- ict being then marked with the opposite hand, the ■ngth from the point in question to the end of the 369 finger is to be measured. This length, which indi- cates the distance between the sacrum and the bot- tom of the symphysis pubis, usually exceeds that of the lesser diameter of tlie pelvis by about six lines. Baudelocque acknowledges that this mea- surement IS not exactly accurate ; but he believes it to be sufficiently so, because, unless the narrowness of the pelvis be extreme, two or three lines hardly make any difference in the facility of parturition. The following is the description of the pelvis of the woman, twice operated upon by Dr. Loclier: the ossa pubis, which should be on the same level with the promontory of the sacrum, were found perpendicularly under it ; so that the child neces- sarily extended tlie abdominal integuments, by its own weight, into a pendulous bag overhanging the f"i, reason, nothing could be lelt of the child by examination per vaginarn. The sacrum,.instead of closing the pelvis behind, bv a semicircular curve, which forms a kind of con- ductor for the child in parturition, stretched nearly horizontally backwards. A representation of this pelvis, with a few other particulars, may be seen in the Med. CIdr. Trans, vol. xi. p. 199. The pelvis may be everywhere we'll formed, and yet present an insurmountable obstacle to delivery. This may happen when an exostosis exists on one of the bones which compose this part of the skeleton. Pineau met with a case of this description in a woman who died undelivered. Ihe tumor originated from one of the ossa pubis A steatoraatous swelling, situated with the head of tile child in the upper aperture of the pelvis, mi^ht produce the same effect, unless it were detected and could be pushed out of the way, so as to make oom fortheicBtus to pass. Baudelocque men- tions a swelling of this kind. It was six or seven "iches long, and an inch and a half in width. The egg, had a bony feel, and contained nine well- tous. It had descended into the lesser pelvis be- low the projection of the sacrum, and a^l uTe f one side It might have been taken for a exos osis of this last bone. The labour-pains conti^ed sixty hours, and the propriety of performing ?he Cesarean operation was under consideration Baudelocque was averse to this proceeding recommended turning the child, and extracting it by the feet, because he thought that the pelvis was sufficiently capacious to admit of deliverv Ihe event proved that it was three inches nine uies from before backward, and four inches nine lines transversely. The foetus was soon extrac "d with the assistance of forceps. Tlie child was st I born. The mother, exhausted with numerous n availing elforts, only survived between fift Cd sixty hours. "J been performed und^'suSld'rSe:':;:?^;: one of the case., the woman survived so lo,"; t'h hopes were entertained of her recovery. f/d ed ns Sabatier observes, why should not the onor-i tioii succeed in such a case, wliere the ui.rF only covered by the integuni^nts "n t\e o ^ occasion to cut into the abdomen, j„st as well as in