FLUCTUATION. 677 flowing through it ; but the fact is, that it does not in reality produce tliis effect; after three or four days a little urine always finds its way by the side of the gum catlieter, and gets into the fistula, although the greater part is drawn off through the catheter. Another circumstance also takes place. The gum catheter acts like a seton, inducing inflammation and suppuration of the mu- cous membrane of the bladder; and some of the pus which is secreted passes through the fistula and keeps it open, as much as it would be kept open by the urine itself." {Sir B, Brodie, Op. et vol. cit. p. 488.) If there be reason to suspect this to be the case, the best plan is to draw off the urine about every four hours and withdraw the catheter directly after each evacuation. The aim should be to Ifit all the urine which is secreted be thus removed by the catheter, and no opportunity afforded for it to enter the fistula. But, as Sir Benjamin Brodie has ex- plained, the urine sometimes cannot be comfortably retained the time required ; and if the catheter be more frequently introduced it becomes a source of irritation, keeps up suppuration, and does as much harm as if it were continually retained. In a case which recently occurred, the permanent retention of catheters in the urethra, and the frequent intro- duction of them, were plans both tried unsuccess- fully. One or two large deep cavities, filled with matter, and communicating with the fistulse, were laid open, and this was followed by considerable improvement. But the use of catheters in any "way alwaj's led to fresh abscesses, and could never be continued long and regularly enough without bringing on great local and constitutional disturb- ance. The constitution was indeed a truly irritable one. Abscesses at length formed successively in the testes, cord, and in the cellular tissue behind Pouparl's ligament. An attack of diarrhoea came on, the appetite failed, and the gentleman died. The opening of a fistula in the perinffium may sometimes be healed by touching it with the nitrate of silver, but the deeper part of it often continues unhealed, and abscesses form again. Ilence, Sir Benjamin Brodie tried the plan of stimulating the bottom of the fistula, while he took measures to prevent the orifice from healing prematurely. A small quantity of nitrate of silver was melted in a platinum spoon, and the end of a probe, having been coated with it, was passed quite to the termination of the fistula, the orifice of which was then slightly touched with caustic potash. The method some- times answered and sometimes failed. If all those plans prove ineffectual, Sir Ben- jamin Brodie is in favour of trying what the daily introduction of a good-sized metallic instrument will accomplish. When a perina;al fistula exists, communicating with the urethra, but having no external opening, a free incision is to be made into the abscess, and the rest of the treatment conducted on the prin- ciples applicable to common fistulre in perinreo. Sometimes a small indurated linnp, not bigger than a horse bean, may be felt in the pcrin.'cnm. It may keep up for a long period a kind of gleet, in consequence of urine entering its cavity, and the matter oozing into the iirothra. The ciwo consists in puncturing it, dilating the urethra with catheters, and, if necessary, touching the deeper part of the wound with caustic potash. (6'iV B. Brodie, Op. cit.) Some practitioners occasionally resort to the actual cautery for healing fistulce in perineeo which resist milder plans. The following raetiiod of laying open such fistulae was more commonly followed a few years ago than at the present day. As little as possible of the sound part of the urethra must be opened. Hence, the Surgeon is guided to the inner orifice of the fistulas by means of a staff, introduced (if possible) into the bladder, and a probe passed into one of the fistulous pas- sages. The probe should be first bent, that it may more readily follow the turns of the fistula. When it can be made to meet the staff, so much the better, for then the operator can just cut only v/hat is necessary. When the fistula is so straight as to admit of a director being introduced, this instrument is the best. When neither the probe nor the director can be made to pass into the staff, the sinuses are to be opened as far as the first instrument goes, and then the continuation of the passage sought and laid open. The difficulties of this dissection, however, through the thickened diseased state of the parts in the scrotum and perinasum when no staff can be passed, are only to be dul}' appreciated by a man who has either made the attempt himself, or seen it made by others. I have seen one of the first anatomists in London fail in two instances to trace the contin- uation of the urethra, and baffled in the endeavour to pass an instrument. The difficulty and confusion arising from the hardened enlarged state of the parts which are cut, have been well depicted by Sir C. Bell. {Surgical Ohs. vol. i. p. 129.) When fistulse in perinfeo have been laid open, the wounds are to be at first dressed dovra to the bottom, which will prevent a premature reunion of the parts near the surface, and make the granu- lations shoot from the bottom, so as to consolidate the whole by one bond of union. [Hunter, On ilie Venereal Disease, 2nd ed.; See also Urinary Ah- seesses and Fisiulai.) [When from sloughing after extravasation, or from other causes, a large opening exists in the perineum, or, as most commonly happens, just in front of the scrotum, and a portion of the urethra itself has been destroyed, some plastic procedure is necessary' in order to restore and close in the canal. For an account of the various operations available in these circumstancog, sec Urkthroplasty.] Henry Thomjyson. FISTULA, SALIVARY. See Parotid Duct. FLUCTUATION. Tlie perceptible motion commimicated to any collection of purulent matter or other kind of fluid, by applying the hands to the' surface of a tumor, and pressing with them alter- nately, in such a manner, that the fingers of one hand are employed in pressing, or rather in briskly tapping upon tho part, while those of the other luuid remain lightly placed on tho opposite side of the swelling. When the ends of one set of fingers are thus delicately applied, and the surgeon taps, or makes repeated jiressure with the fingers of the other hand, the impulse given to tho lluid is im- mediately perceptible to him, and the senaation thus received is one of the principal symptoms by which practitioners are enabled to discover tho presence of lluid in a groat variety of cases. Great skill in ascertaining by the touch tho pre-