lo4 ANEU around it, as would fully account for no aneu- risnial tumor being the result. One very interesting point, in relation to spon- taneous aneurism, and particularly adverted to hy M. Malgaigiie, is the almost exclusive restriction of this disease to the aortic system. Thus, in more than three hundred aneurisms, observed by M. Lisfranc, or recorded by others, he has met with only two instances of an aneurismal disease of the pulmonary artery, and these not free from objection. {Lisfranc, Des diverses Methodes, ^c. pour I'Obliltration Des Arteres, p. 8, 8vo. Paris, 1834.) This remarkable fact is suspected to de- pend upon the aortic arteries containing, between their inner and fibrous coats, a dense, hard, fragile tissue, only capable of being taken off in scales, and designated by M. Malgaigne the sclerous coat. When concretions of different kinds, cal- careous, steatomatous, or cartilaginous, present themselves in the aorta, they are seated, according to M. Malgaigne, almost exclusively, in this scle- rous coat, a texture not existing in the pulmonary artery or its branches. In many instances, it is difficult to assign any cause for the commencement of aneurism. Among the circumstances which predispose to the disease, ho\vever, the large size of the vessels may undoubtedly be reckoned. Those trunks which are near the heart have much thinner pa- rietes, in relation to the magnitude of the column of blood with which they are filled, than arteries of smaller diameter ; and since the lateral pres- sure of this blood against the sides of the arteries is in a ratio to the magnitude of these vessels, it follows, that aneurisms must be much more fre- quent in the trunks near the heart, than in such as are remote from the source of the circulation. {Rioherand, Nosogr. CIdr. t. iv. p. 72, edit. 2.) The whole arterial system is liable to iineurisms; but, says Pelletan, experience proves, that internal arteries are much more frequently affected, than such as are external. {Clinique CMr. t. i. p. 54.) The curvatures of the arteries are another pre- disposing cause of the disease, and have a mani- fest effect in determining the formation of the great sinus of the aorta, the dilatation which exists between the arch and the origin of this large artery, and which is the more considerable the older the person is: Monro even thought, that one half of old persons have an aneurism at the beginning of the aorta. And with respect to aneurisms in ge- neral, which are preceded by calcareous deposi- tions, thickening, and disease of the coats of the vessel, they are most frequent in persons of ad- vanced age. Aneurisms from wounds are of course often seen in individuals of every age. In old people, the coats of the arteries are subject to a disease, which renders them incapable of making due resistance to the lateral impulse of the blood. The disease here alluded to is what is described in a foregoing part of this article ; one common effect of which is the deposition of calcareous mutter between the inner and muscular coats of the arteries, or in the sclerous coat of Malgaigne. " People in the early part of life," says Mr. Wilson, "arc not very subject to these calca- reous depositions; but, I have occasionally met with them in the arteries of very young people. I have seen a well-marked deposition of the phos- phate of lime in the arteries of a child under three vears of age." He adds, that few persons, above the age of sixty, are free from these ossifications. {Oil tlie Blood, and on tlte Anatomy, Pathology, ^c. of the Vascidar System, p. 375. Lond. 1819.) [Cachexy, in whatever way induced, whether by mercury or syphilis, disposes to aneurism by in- ducing those structural changes in the arterial coats that ultimately lead to their dilatation.] According to Sir Astley Cooper, the time of life when aneurism generally occurs, is between the ages of thirty and fifty ; an age, when exercise is considerable, and strength on the decline. In very old age the disease is not so common. How- ever, he operated successfully on a case of pop- liteal aneurism, where the patient was eighty- four, or eighty-five years old. He operated, with success, on another man, sixty-nine years of age. He has also seen a bo)', only eleven years old, with aneurism of the anterior tibial artery. The man of more than eighty is the oldest, and the boy of eleven the j'oungest, aneurismal patient he has ever seen. (See Lectures, vol. ii. p. 40.) On the subject of the comparative frequency of aneurism at various periods of life, M. Lisfranc refers to 120 cases, in which the age of the patient is specified, and from which he drew up the an- nexed table: — Age. Cases. Age. Cases. 13 - 1 40 to 45 - 20 15 to 20 - 3 45 to SO - 17 20 to 25 - 5 50 to 55 - 11 25 to 30 - 12 55 to 60 - 6 30 to 35 - 24 60 to 70 - 3 35 to 40 - 15 70 to 80 - 3 Thus, M. Lisfranc finds, what Sir Astley Cooper had ascertained long ago, that aneurisms are most common between the ages of thirty and fifty : that ten years on one side or the other of these ages make a remarkable difference,—under twenty, and after sixty, the disease being exceedingly rare. Aneurisms by anastomosis, however, which are entirely a different affection from the cases now under consideration, are chiefly met with in children and young persons under fifteen, and seldom in adults. M. Lisfranc knows of no example of aneurism by anastomosis in an old person. {De rObliteration des Arteres, S[c. p. 12, 13.) Richerand affirms, that, out of twelve popliteal aneurisms, which he had seen in hospital or pri- vate practice, ten were caused by a violent exten- sion of the leg. This statement, he says, will derive confirmation from the following experiment. Place the knee of a dead subject on the edge of a firm table, and press on tiie heel, so as forcibly to extend the leg, far enough to make the liga- ments of the ham snap. Now dissect the parts, cut out the artery, and examine its parietes in a good light, when" the lacerations of the middle coat will be observable, and rendered manifest by the circumstance of those places appearing semitran- sparent, where the fibres are separated, the parietes at such points merely consisting of the internal and external tunics. (Nosogr. Chir. t. iv. p. 73, 74, ed. 2.) But the insufficiency of this explan- ation is clear enough from the fact, that such violence as is requisite to break the ligaments of the knee, cannot be imagined to happen in the ac- cidents which ordinarily bring on aneurism m the ham. The implicit belief of Richerand, that the ia-