The preceding doctrine is, however, judiciously qualified by its restriction to the disease as seated in the eye itself. The retina and optic nerve, Mr. Lawrence admits, with other surgeons, may be dis ordered sympathetically, as the stomach may be dis ordered, without any change visible on dissection. The second class of causes are supposed to ope- rate, by weakening either the whole body, or the eye alone, and they indicate the general or topical use of tonic remedies. In the first case, the blind- ness appears as a symptom of considerable uni- versal debility of the whole system ; in the second case, It IS altogether local. Every great general weakness of body, let it proceed from any cause whatsoever, may be followed by a loss of sight Amaurosis is sometimes the consequence of a tedious diarrhoea, an attack of cholera, profuse nemorrhage, and immoderate salivations (See Tmversy S^mpsis, p. 144.) Richter informs us of a dropsical woman who became blind on the water bemg let out of her abdomen. According to the same author, no general weakening causes operate upon the eyes, and occasion total blindness, so powerfully and often as premature and excessive indulgence in venereal pleasures. Mr. Lawrence r°^l no'„co'ncide in some of the foregoing views. 1 hose, says he, " who have considered amau- rosis to arise from debilitating causes, have con- sidered that debility and atony of the nerve may be produced by all those circumstances which debilitate the system generally, such as loss of blood from profuse hemorrhage, diarrhoea, copious salivation, &c. I have never seen amaurosis pro- duced by such causes. That great anxiety and griet may favour the occurrence of amaurosis I am inclined to allow; for it is not improbable that severe impressions of that kind may produce in- flammatory excitement in the brain or eyes ; but 1 think we cannot, without more direct proofs ad- mit the influence of debilitating causes generally m tne production of amaurosis. The most clear in- stance of any directly debilitating cause producinc. amaurosis, is that of protracted suckling." ° The causes, which operate locally in weakening I the eyes, are various. Nothing has a greater ten- dency to debilitate these organs than keeping them long and attentively fixed upon minute objects I iSut, however long and assiduously objects are viewed, if they are diversified, the eye suffers much less than when they are all of the same kind A frequent change in the objects which are looked ' at, bas a material effect in strengtlienini; and re- freshing the eye. The sight is particularly injured by looking at objects with only one eye at a time as is done with telescopes and magnifying glasses • tor, wlien one eye remains shut, the pupil of that which IS open always becomes dilated beyond its mtural diameter, and lets an extraordinary quan- tity of light into the organ. The eye is generally very much u,rt by being employed in the close inspection of brilliant, light-coloured, shining ob- a7 -Amongst the occupations enumerated by Mr. Tr.avers as particularly exposing persons to amaurosis, arc those of needleworkers, writers draughtsmen, inspectors of linen and scarlet cloths' and of new bank notes; money counters, smiths' nokors in iron-furnaces and glass-hnuses, tavorn- :onks, watchuiakers, engravers, philosophical in- arument makers, sea officers, &c. {Sj/nnpsi. il, .y are greatly mistaken, .says Richter, .vho think that they save their eyes, when they 33 AMAUROSIS. illuminate the object which they wish to see in the evening with more lights, or with a lamp that intercepts and collects all the rays of light, and reflects them upon the body which is to be looked at. Richter mentions a man, who, in the middle of winter, went a journey on horseback, through a snowy country, while the sun was shining quite bright, and who was attacked with amaurosis. He speaks of another person, who lost his sight in consequence of the chamber in which he lay beino- suddenly illuminated by a vivid flash of lightning" A man was one night seized with blindness as his eyes were fixed on the moon. Richter also e.x- presses his belief, that a concussion of the head, from external violence, may sometimes operate directly on the nerves, so as to weaken and render them completely paralytic. Beer corroborates the foregoing statement • for lie says, amongst the most frequent causes is to be' considered every abuse of the eyesight, especially m dark-eyed persons, as a long and close inspec- tion of one object, particularly with a microscope, when the thing examined is very brilliant, or re- flects back much light into the eye. Hence the view of jewels at night, and long journeys throu.»h snowy countries, are conducive to the disease In this respect, every kind of employment which strains the eyes much, and requires a strong re- flected light, must be considered injui-ious. (See a so Traverses Synopsis, p. 144.) Thus reverber- ating lamps, like Argand's; the view of a white wall Illuminated with the sun's rays ; and looking a long while at the moon, or more especially the sun with the unassisted eye, are circumstances ikely to bring on the disease. That a flash of lightning, especially when it suddenly wakes a person m the night-time out of a sound sleep, may produce an amaurotic amblyopia, in an irritable eye, or even perfect blindness, is a well known lact: and it is on the same principle, that going suddenly out of a dark bed-room, immediately after wakmg in the morning, into an apartment that commands an open extensive prospect, must be burtful to an irritable eye, though the bad eflbcts may only come on slowly. Here is also to be in- cluded every kind of over irritation of the eye by ifjhf, as happens to typhoid patients, when thev lie with their eyes open all the day in a laree sunny chamber. ^ In the weakness of vision {asthenopia) brought on by over exercise of the sight, there is some difference of opinion as to the precise nature of the changes in the optic apparatus. Dr. Mackenzie considers that the disorder depends in a irreat measure on a loss of power ia the apparatus for the focal adjustment of the eye, and'that the effort necessary for adjustment cannot be sustained; the hd ii I f ^'''r necessarily fad(. fiom before the sight, and a feelinR of fatitrue creeps over the eye. It is probable tha^ 11 cu e of impoteiicy resides not iiT ,he ciliary circles ncrv and'I merely, but i.f the t'liird h {: '^""''•■'''^t'on of the recti and obliqui, hen so necessary for keeping the eye in u state of r. tion for directing it along the lines of a pnntccl page, for converging the two eyes to the sanic iiomt, and perhaps for ciunpressing the globe "t the eye so as to maintain an incroasid distance between the retina and the cornea, must in this