ANEURISM heart, begins immediately to ooze through the connections of the fibres of the muscular coat, and gradually to be infused into the interstices of the cellular coverin-r, forming, for a certain ex- tent, a kind of ecchymosis, or extravasation of blood, slightly elevated upon the artery. After- wards, the points of contact between the edges of the fibres of the muscular coat, being insensibly separated, the arterial blood, penetrating between them, fills the cellular covering of the artery, and raises it after the manner of an incipient tumor Thus, the fibres and layers of the muscular coat, being wasted, or lacerated, or simply separated trom each other, the arterial blood is carried with great force, and in greater quantity than before into the cellular sheath of the artery, which it forces more outwards; and, finally, the divisions between the interstices of the cellular coat, beina- ruptured, it is converted into a sac, which is filled Avith polypous concretions and fluid blood, and at last forms, strictly speaking, the aneurisnml sac. Ihe internal texture, although apparently composed of membranes placed one over the other, IS, m fact, very different from that of the proper coats of the artery, notwithstandino- the injured vessel and aneurismal sac are both co- vered externally in the thorax and abdomen with a smooth membrane. Scarpa has examined a considerable number of aneurisms of the arch, and of the thoracic and abdominiJ trunks of the aorta, without findin<r a single one in which the rupture of the pnper coats of the artery was not evident, and in which consequently, the sac was produced by a substance completely difl='erent from the internal and muscu lar coats. The aneurismal sac never comprehends ihe whole circumference of the vessel. At the place Where the tumor joins the side of the tube the aneurismal sac presents a kind of constric'tion. beyond which it becomes more or less expanded' Ihis would never happen, or rather the contrary circumstance would occur, if the sac were formed by an equable distention of the tube and proper coats of the affected artery. In incipient aneu- risms at least, the greatest size of the tumor would then be in the artery itself, or root of the swellinff while Its fundus would be the least. But, ivhe/hcr aneurisms >e recent and small, or of long stand- ^ng and large, the passage from the artery is always narroxv, and the fundus of the swelling greater tn proportion to its distance from the 80 t dilatable cellular substance which united the SurwirrV"""^ circumjacent parts, buch cellular substance, in aneurisms of tho tho- TtCXy '^"'T"'^dby the pleura, and, in those of the abdominal aorta, by the peritoneum, which membranes include tho sac and ruptured artery presenting outwardly a continued smooth surface just as if the artery itself were dilated. Hut if the aorta be opened lengthwise on the side opno- site tho constriction, or neck of the tumor, the place of the ulceration, or rupture, of tho proper oats of the artery, immediately appears with , the vessel on the side opposite to that of the ncision. ihe edge of the fissure, which has taken 5lace, 13 sometimes fringed, often callous and .ard, and through ,t the blood formed for itself erted into the aneurismal sac. If, as sometimes 147 happens, in the arch of the aorta near the heart, the artery, before being ruptured, has been some- what dilated, it seems, at first, as if there were two aneurisms ; but the constriction, which the sac next to the artery presents externally, points out exactly the limits, beyond which the internal and muscular coats of the aorta had not been able to resist the distention, and where of course they have been ruptured. The partition, which may always be seen dividing the tube of the artery from the aneurismal sac, and which islacerated in its mid- dle, consists of nothing else than the remains of the internal and muscular coats of the ruptured artery. By carefully dissecting the proper coats of the ruptured aorta in its situatic.n, and comparing tnem with the cellular substance forming the sac Scarpa afiirms, that the truth of the preceding statement may be indisputably demonstrated. When an incision is made lengthwise in the side of the vessel opposite the rupture, its proper coats are found either perfectly sound, or a little weakened and studded with earthy points, but still capable of being separated into distinct layers Un the contrary, in the opposite side of the aorta where the rupture is, the proper coats are un- usually tinn and are only separable from each other with difficulty, or even not at all ; they are fre- quently brittle like an egs-shell, and are disor- ganised and torn at the place where they fium the partition between the ruptured artery and the mouth of the aneurismal sac. Continuinjr to se- parate these coats from within outwards, we ar- rive at the cellular sheath surrounding the aorta. This sheath being much thickened in large aneu- risms, and adherent to the subjacent muscular ion o"f th' '"""^ r, ^ P''-"^^ °f 'he constric- tion of the sac IS likely to be mistaken for a dilated portion of the vessel itself. But, even in such cases we may at last separate it,' withoi" aceration, from the tube of the artery, above and be ow the injury, and, successively, from the nm 1 hen It IS clear, the muscular coat does not pass beyond the partition, separating the cavity of the artery from that of the aneurismal sac oTe^ which It IS not prolonged, but terminates a the points._ Errors seem to Scarpa more apt to occur, in consequence of the aorta and sac beinir both covered by the pleura or peritoneum. The portion of the aorta within the pericardium being only covered by a thin reflected layer of this membrane, such layer may also be lacerated when he proper coats give way, and blood be effuZ nto he cavity o the pericardium. E.vamples of this kind are related by Walter Mn... • i Scarpa himself. In the latter n!/ ^"'^''S'"' n""! an iLision into the co S ' '^rtho'"'''''r^ opposite the tumor which had fLl! i . layer of the pericardium, w 2, Z l a small aperture, its in eriial rnn. to the base of thi swell iig 1 ^^^^^^^^ spersexl with yellow l.ard ^spot^ a U t fil ' T"' ■•"cd for the space of an inch '"■. 'r'''''"'- J^iit, all other parts of the aorla havino- 1,. Sartre T.£:z '•••'ture, which allows itself' to bo d t nded J -c, and lH^ingstivmgthened,inten;;l?;,'bJ';:S,':