ther two hours. It was then bent to a right angle, and extended for an hour. Then the foie-arm was made the fixed point, and extension was practised upon the arm for an hour. At length, at the end of this time, the reduction was clYocted. (See Gax. Med. 1843, p. 302 ; and Malgaigne, Op. cit. p. 103.) Now that we have the assistance of chloroform, it is perhaps not too much to say, that the reduc- tion may be attempted with advantage up to a period of six or eight months, for even if perfect replacement cannot be accomplished, so as to remedy the deformity, the rupture or elongation of the ad- hesions will be followed by a great increase in the mobility, and conseq^uently in the usefulness of the injured limb. If too much force is used there is some risk that the olecranon may be fractured. Several instances of this have been met with ; but in some the frac- ture of the olecranon appears to have been advan- tageous, inasmuch as it permitted the reduction to take place. (See Malflcdgne, op. cit. p. 145.) In one case of six months' standing, M. Gerdy prac- tised subcutaneous section of the triceps tendon, hut without success. Several melancholy instances are on record, showing the unfortunate results of the employment of an excessive degree of force in the re- duction. In some, the vessels and nerves have been torn through, and mortification of the limb has been the result. In a case under Lisfranc, of dislocation of four months' standing, in a child of ten years old, death took place on the following day, and was ap- parently caused by the exhaustion and shock con- sequent upon the operation.] 2. Lateral dislocalions of tlie elbow.—These are differently described by Boyer and by Sir A. Cooper. The former speaks of the displacement as taking place directly inwards or directly outwards,'&nd as being the result of considerableviolence, acting upon thearm and fore-arm at the same time, and in opposite directions. It ia almost invariably partial, on ac- count of the great breadth of the articular surfaces, which are still in contact, though their relations are more or less changed ; in the dislocation inwards, for example, the superior extremity of the radius corresponds to the trochlear surface of the humerus ; and in the dislocation outwards, the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna receives the external condyle of the humerus. In the one case, the external condyle, and in the other, the internal condyle, is unnatur- ally prominent, while jn both tlie transverse dia- meter of the elbow is increased. Nevertheless, he says, if the action of the exciting cause is sufficient, the bones may be removed altogether from their natural contact, and the dislocation is then complete. In the hitter case, if the bones of the fore-arm are carried outwards, they may even overlap the humerus, and be drawn up on its outer side ; but if the luxation is inwards, tiiia does not take place, the bones of the fore-arm being sustained by the internal condyle of the humerus, wliich is so mud more prominent than the external. (See JJoijcr Traiti des Mai. Chir. t. iv. p. 229.) Sir A. Cooper.does not appear to have met witl the lateral dislocation, as described by Boyer, hut speaks of the lateral displaconieiit as combined with displacement backwards. Tiie lateral dislocations descrilied by him are, in fact, a combination of the complete dislocation backwards with a partial dis placement either outwards or inwards,] DISLOCATION. 537 In the dislocation lachwards and outwards, the coronoid process is situated on the back part of the external condyle. The projection of the ulna backwards is even greater than in the dislocation of both bones directly backwards, and the radius forms a protuberance behind, and on the outer side of the elbow. By moving the hand, the rotation of the head of the radius can be distinctly felt. In the dislocation lachwards and inwards, the ulna is thrown behind the internal condyle, when it still projects backwards, as in the external lateral dislo- cation ; and the head of the radius is in the pos- terior fossa of the humerus, and the external condyle of the OS humeri projects very much outwardly. {Sir A. Cooper, op. cit. p. 448, ed. 1842.) [The manner in which these dislocations are pro- duced is, in Sir A. Cooper's opinion, the same as in that directly backwards, but the direction of the fall is varied, or it may be caused by the wheel of a carriage passing over the arm whilst it is placed upon uneven ground. M. Malgaigne believes that the cause of the dislocation backwards and outwards is usually a fall on the inner surface of the ulna, which impresses upon the fore-arm a movement of rotation inwards and backwards, combined, at the same time, with impulsion outwards. Lateral dislocations of the elbow are much less . frequent than those directly backwards, but there is no doubt that they do occur, both in the manner described by Boyer, and in that described by Sir A. Cooper, although of the two varie- ties the latter appears to be the more common. M. Malgaigne has collected four examples of the incomplete dislocation outwards, and five of that inwards—one of the latter coming under his own observation. He has himself witnessed five cases of dislocation backwards and outwards, and four of dislocation backwards and inwards. With respect to complete lateral dislocations, it does not appear that any example has been met with in the direction inwards, although several well-authenticated cases of complete dislocation outwards are on record. One is mentioned by Diipuytren {Le(;.ons Orales, t. i. p. 131); another by M. J. Cloquet {Gax. des Hop. t. ii. p. 139) ; and a third by M. Nelaton {Elem. de Pathol, Chir. t. ii. p. 391.) Several others have since been observed, amounting to ten altogether. M. Mal- gaigne believes thein to be caused in the same way as the dislocation backwards and outwards ; tlie force producing which ma)', if carried to a greater extent, cause the bones of the fore-arm to pass en- tirely beyond the humerus on the outer side. From the cases which have been observed, the general characters of this dislocation appear to be, that the two bones are displaced on the outer side of the hu- merus, not in a direct line, but with the radius turned forwards, and projecting in this direction beyond the plane of the external condyle. The fore-ann is therefore twisted inwards upon its axis, in such a manner that its posterior surface looks outwards, and its anterior surface inwards. This rotation in- wards was in one case carried to so great a degree, that the head of the radius was lodged in the coro- noid depression on the anterior surface of the hu- merus. The prominence of the olecranon is absent from the posterior surface of the arm, where the smooth posterior surface of the humerus can be felt, terminating in the depression for the olecranon and the articular surface of the trochlea, which are covered only by the skin. Tiic olecranon is very pro«