WOUNDS. 017 GUNSHOT 3 0 experience, and the observations of Dr. Thomson, justify me in adding compound fractures of the thigh from gunshot violence. I am particularly glad that the latter gentleman has devoted a proper degree of attention to these cases ; for the oppor- tunities which I had of judging when abroad, in- cline me to believe that military surgeons are hardly yet sufficiently impressed with the propriety of immediate amputation in gunshot fractures of the thigh. There were brought into my hospital at Oudenbosch, in 1814, about eight of such cases, all in the worst state for an operation, because several days had elapsed after the receipt of the injuries. All these patients died, excepting one, whose fracture was not far above the con- dyles, and I do not know that he ever regained a very useful limb. Another had indeed been rescued by amputation from the dangers of the injury, but was, unfortunately, lost by secondary hemorrhage about three days after the operation. The bleeding was almost instantly suppressed; yet such was the weakness of the patient, that the irritation of securing the vessel, and the loss of blood together, destroyed at once every hope of re- covery. "Were I to judge, then, from my own per- sonal observations in the arm)', and from some other cases which I saw under ray colleagues, I should, without hesitation, recommend immediate amputation in all cases of compound fractures of the thigh caused by grape-shot, musket-balls, &c. If there are any exceptions to this advice, they are such as are specified in the article Amputation. " Gunshot fractures of the thigh (says Dr. J. Thomson) have been universally allowed to be attended with a high degree of danger ; indeed, till of late years, very few instances have been re- corded of recovery from these injuries. Ravaton acknowledges that in his long and extensive ex- perience he had never seen an example of recovery from a gunshot fracture of the thigh ; and Bilguer, in his calculations with regard to those who re- cover from gunshot fractures, sets aside those of the thigh-bone as being of a nature altogether liopeless. In the present improved state of mi- litary surgery, instances sometimes occur of re- covery from this fracture ; but of these the number will be found, I believe, to be exceed- ingly small in comparison with those who die, particularly when the fracture has had its seat above the middle of the bone." According to the observation of Percy, scarcely two of ten recover who have suffered gunshot fractures of the thigh-bone. Mr. Guthrie, who seems to have paid great attention to this subject, says that "upon a review of the many cases which I have seen, I do not believe that more than one- sixth recovered so as to have useful limbs ; two-thirds of the whole died either with or without amputation ; and the limbs of the remaining sixth were not only nearly useless, but a cause of nuich uneasiness to tliem for the remainder of their lives." (See Guthrie, On Gunshol Wounds, p. 191.) " In fractures by musket-bullets of the lower pni-t of the thigh-bone (says Dr. Thomson) re- covery not unfrequently takes place ; and both Schmuckcr and Mr. Guthrie conceive that they are injuries in which amputation may be delayed with safety. It would be very agreeable that this opinion should be confirmed by future experience ; but it appears to me that before it can be received as a maxim in military surgery, much more exteu- sive and accurate observation than we yet possess will be required, with regard to the proportion of those who recover without amputation, or after secondary operations, and of those who recover after primary amputation. Of those who had suffered this injury, we saw comparatively but a small number recovering in Belgium, and they had been attended with severe local and constitutional symptoms." (See Ohs. made, ^e. in Belgium, p. 247, et seq.) In the article Amputation, I have described the manner in which balls produce fissures of several inches in length in the thigh-bone. This state of the bone, observes Dr. Thomson, must be very unfavourable to recovery, and his conclusion is, that in general, even in fractures of the lower part of the thigh-bone, a greater number of lives will be preserved in military practice by immediate ampu- tation, than by attempting the cure without that operation. " When the bone appears, on a careful examination, to be broken without being much splintered, and when the patient can be removed easily to a place of rest and safety, it may be right to attempt to preserve the limb ; but if the bone be much splintered, or if the conveyance is to be long or uncertain, it will, in most instances, I am convinced, be a much safer practice, even in frac- ' tares of this part of the thigh-bone, to amputate without delay. " Musket-bullets, in passing through the femur, near to the knee-joint, produce fissures of the con- dyles, which generally communicate with the joint. These cases, like those in which the bullets have passed directly through the joint, require either ex- cision of the joint or amputation. " The writings of military surgeons contain but few histories of cases in which the thigh-bone had been fractured above its middle by the passage of musket-bullets. These are cases, I believe, which have generally bad a fatal termination; and the danger attendant upon the amputation which they require, seems long to have deterred surgeons from attempting to ascertain what advantages might be derived from the employment of that operation. Schmucker recommends, and states that he had practised with success, immediate am- putation in those cases in which a sufficient space was left below the groin for the application of the tourniquet. It is curious to remark, in the history of amputation, how long surgeons were in dis- covering the ease and safety with which the femo- ral artery miyht be compressed by the fingers, or pads, in its passage over the brim of the pelvis. M. Boy, from the inmiediatc danger, protracted suffering, and nltiniato want of success, which he had observed to follow this kind of injury, urges strenuously the propriety of immediate amputation. Mr. Gutiirie's opinion, with regard to the dangerous nature of these injuries, and the advantages to be derived in them from immediate amputation, coincides in every respect with those of Schmucker and Boy. lie ol)serves, that those whose thigh- bone has been fractured in its upper part by a musket-bullet, generally die, with great suffering, before the end of tho sixth or eighth week, and that few even of those escape in whom the bone has been fractured in its middle part. Of the few whom we saw, who had survived ginishot fractures in the upper part of the thigh-bone, in Belgium, scarcely any one could bo said to be in a favourable condition. In all the limbs were much contracted,