110 AMPUTATION. of the limb, or other circumstances, may require ;" but I should be reluctant to imitate the practice to this extent, tliough inclined to think most fa- vourably of it within more moderate limits. If we reckon that three inches of the member lie between the first circular cut in the skin and the place where the knife arrives at the bone, and then take away two or three inches more of the femur, it is clear that, in many examples, we should be getting very high up the limb ; and if a detachment of the muscles from the bone, to the extent of two or three inches, were thus made, it would at all events be of no service, unless the bone would admit of being sawn at this greiit distance from the termination of the oblique division of the muscles. However, if this were truly practicable (a point which I leave for others to discuss), it would cer- tainly be consonant to the excellent general maxim laid down by J. L. Petit, that, in amputation, as much of the bone and as little of the flesh should be taken away as possible. (See Traite des Mai. Chir.t. iii. p. 150.) When this final detachment of the deep muscles from the bone is adopted, particular care, as Roux observes, should be taken always to divide the thick aponeurosis con- necting the triceps to the linea aspera. (Mem. sur la Rtuniun de la Plate apr&s I'Amputation, p. 10.) With respect to Desault's method of amputating the thigh by a circular incision, already mentioned, he considered turning the knife obliquely upwards quite unnecessary. His plan was to cut through the muscles, layer after layer, with the precaution of retracting the first stratum before he divided the second; the latter was then cut through on a level with the flesh that had been previously divided and retracted, and so on down to the bone. This, says he, is the right way of forming a true hollow cone, of which the integuments, which were drawn up before the muscles were cut, form the base, from which are gradually continued the various layers of muscles, and the highest point of which is the bone itself. {CEiivi-es Chir. de Desault, par Bichat, t. ii. p. 547.) Dupuytren objected to this last method as tedi- ous and painful, on account of the repeated division of the same textures by it. Hence, he preferred cutting through the integuments and muscles down to the bone with a single stroke of the knife, some- times perpendicularly, sometimes obliquel3^ The contraction of the muscles, and the retraction pro- duced by the assistant, who grasped the limb above the incision, instantly caused the wound to assume a conical projecting form. At the base of this cone, close to the edge of the retracted skin and muscles, the knife was applied again, .and the flesh here drawn up as soon as divided. By cutting the mus- cular strata in succession, as they presented them- selves under those already divided, and retracted, Dup'iytren was able to lay bare tiie bone six inches above the line of the first incision. The operation was rapidly completed, and the patient saved from all the agony resulting from tiie dissection of the skin from the muscles. (See Leqons Orates de Clinupie Chir. do M. to JIaroii Dupuytren, t. iv. p. 297.) Ill this plan, however, the deep nniscles attached to the bone must have been cut through more tlian once, if the operator really made his knife penetrate to the bone at tlie first stroke, as is represented. The avoidance of the tedious dissec- tion of the skin, the saving of pain, and the abridgement of the operation, were not the only considerations in favour of this method, for one still greater influenced Dupuytren, namely, that of not destroying tiie natural connections of the skin to the subjacent parts, and preserving the sources of its nutrition. Hence, he followed this plan in all circular amputations of parts of limbs, where there was only one bone. (Op. cit. t. iv. p. .351.) Care is to be taken to leave the nervus saphenus major out of the noose. Its diminutive size pre- vents it from being readily seen; but as it is always situ.ated close to the sheath, and on the outer and front part of the artery in the middle third of the thigh, there ought to be no great difficulty in find- ing it. ( Velpeaii, op. cit. t. i. p. 506.) [Mr. Synie, who had for a lolig period been .an advocate for flap amputations, has lately expressed an opinion in favour of the circular method in the lower third of the thigh; though at or above the middle of the bone he still thinks there can be no doubt of the propriety of the flap method. His reason for changing his opinion with reference to amputation in the lower third is the tendency to protrusion of the bone from retraction of the flaps during the healing process. The retraction is of course greater in the lower than at the upper part of the limb, on account of the greater length of muscular fibre remaining. Mr. Syme observes : " This distressing result depends upon the vital contractility of the muscular tissue, which, con- tinuing in operation so long as the cut surface is not prevented from yielding by the formation of new adhesions, not only lessens the mass of flesh provided for covering the bone, but gradually re- tracts it, together with the superjacent integu- ments." {Ed. Month. Jotirn. 184 6.) Tliis is in accordance with the observation made long since by Sir A. Cooper, that "if muscular fibres are preserved with the integuments, they will contract, and retraction of the skin covering the stump will be the result." {Lancet, vol. i. 1823, p. 148.) Mr. Syme makes two semicircular flaps of skin, which he causes to be retracted to the extent of two inches, and he then divides the muscles in the ordinary way by circular incisions. In the upper half of the thigh, the increiising size of the limb from below upwards will often render difficult the retr.action or reflection of the integuments after the circular incision. This is especially the case, as M. Baudens has remarked, when the limb is swollen from inflanmiatory effu- sion. To avoid this difficulty, M. Baudens has suggested a combination of the flap and circular methods. He forms short external and internal flaps in the ordinary way, by tr<ansfixion, but com- prising only the skin and the superficial muscular substance. The flaps, being turned b.ick, can be Readily retracted tow.irds the hip, so as to allow the circular division of the remaining soft parts to be made at a sufficiently higii level. M. Baudens' operations were performed in cases of gunshot fracture of the femur, and he commenced the inci- sions for the flaps below and nut above the line of passage of the projectile. He made the circular incision fall upon tiie lower end of the upper frag- ment of the bone, the uneven end of which he re- sected .after the separation of the limb. He found that the perforation of the flaps, made by tlie pas- sage of the ball, so far from being luu tfiil, were .advantageous by serving as outlets for the suppura- tion. (See Clin, des Flaics d'Amies a Feu, p. 527.)