78 AMPUTATION. compressed together when all chance of adhesion is past, and the parts must heal by the granulating process. My friend Mr. Guthrie, after amputa- tions performed from necessity in parts not in a healthy state, as in most secondary amputations after compound fractures of the thigh, docs not insist upon the edges of the wound being brought into close contact by sticking plaster, compress, and bandage. In these cases, he also recommends the bone to be sawn an inch shorter than usual, or than would be necessaiy under other circumstances, in order to prevent its protrusion, and the ligatures to be cut off close to the knots, so as to lessen irri- tation. The integuments and muscles are to be brought forward, and retained so by a moderately tight roller, but not laid down against the bone. Some fine lint, smeared with cerate or oil, is to be put between the edges of the wound: and a piece of linen and a Malta cross over it, supported by a few light turns of the roller, " In some cases," says Mr. Guthrie, " I have put one, and even two straps of plaster over the stump, to keep the edges approximated, without being in contact, and where the parts are but little diseased this may be at- tempted ; but, if the stump becomes uneasy, they should be cut, and a poultice applied. When only a part of the stump has appeared to slough, I have found the spiritua camphorse alone, or diluted with a watery solution of opium, applied with the lint, very useful." (On Gunshot Wounds, p. 104.) The reasons which led Mr. Guthrie to incline to the plan of not bringing together the edges of the wound, in cases of this description, must be learned by reference to his own valuable work. His cases and arguments are entitled to serious consideration; and though they, as well as the observations of M. Roux {Mem. sur la Reunion immediate de la Plate ai^res I'Amputation, 8vo. Paris, 1814), leave me unconvinced of the usefulness of not bringing the edges of the wound together immediately after the amputation of bad compound fractures, there are some of his observations, respecting the in- jurious effects of pressure in certain conditions of the stump, perfectly agreeing with my own senti- ments. At present, I have never seen any case of amputation, in which I should not have thought the surgeon wrong, had he not brought the sides of the wound together directly, or within a few hours after the operation, so as to afford the chance of union by the first intention; Various bad consequences may follow Amputation; As, for instance, spasms of the stump, tetanus, hemorrhage, severe inflammation of the stump, abscesses and extensive sinuses, inflammation ot the medullary membrane, necrosis (see D. Phillips, in Lond. Med. Gaz. for 1033—34, p. 189), pro- trusion of the bono, phlebitis, and suppuration in internal organs, and in various other parts of the body, hospital gangrene, neuromata, &c. Of these several complications, which may either interrupt cicatrisation, or subject the piitient to great and protracted suffering, or even lead to a fatal termi- nation, some are common to many operations; others restricted to tliat which is now under con- sideration; some arise from external causes; others from internal. (Sec Dupuylrcn, Lemons Onilrs, t. iv. p. 425.) It is only necessary to enter into a p'art of these topics in the present place, because tlie others more properly belong to the articlea llosri- TAL Gangrene,JNecrosis, Phlebitis, Pyzumia Stumps, Suppuration, and Tetanus. Secondary Hemorrhage. Bleeding, after the operation, is of two kinds in regard to the time when it occurs. The first takes place within twenty-four hours after the operation. Hence an assistant should always be left with the patient, with directions carefully and repeatedly to look at the stump, and if any bleeding should arise, to apply the tourniquet until further aid be ob- tained. In case no assistance can be spared for this purpose, as must frequently happen in country practice, the tourniquet should be left slackly round the limb, and the nurse, or patient himself, directed to turn the screw of the instrument, in order to tighten it, in case of need. A slack tourniquet, left round the limb after amputation, cannot do harm, and its not having been ready in this way has cost many patients their lives. If the bleeding should not be from an artery of consequence, the application of linen dipped in cold or iced water will sometimes check it, and the dis- agreeable necessity for removing the dressings and opening the wound may thus be avoided. But it often happens that the wound must be opened, and the bleeding vessel tied. This is a very painful proceeding; for when the dressings have been ap- plied some hours, and the stump has had time_ to imflame, nothing can exceed the suffering to which the patient is subjected by their removal. Here we see the prudence of being particularly careful at first to tie every suspicious vessel. A few years ago, directly after the ligature of the vessels, the stump was always closed and dressed. Such, indeed, is still the general prac- tice. Dupuytren deviated from this custom by let- ting one or several hours elapse before he dressed the stump. The vessels having been secured, the patient was conveyed into bed again, with merely a single compress and slack bandage placed on the stump. Dupuytren's reasons for this practice are that, notwithstanding every possible attention, he- morrhage will frequently take place shortly after operation, and compel the surgeon to remove the dressings; and that these often conceal the bleed- ing, till it has gone on to a fatal extent. Arteries are frequently prevented for a time from throwing out blood by the patient's syncope or mental de- pression; but. in two or three hours, they begin to bleed profusely, on the circulation recovering its force. From the period when Dupuytren com- menced the custom of deferring the dressing for a time, no consecutive hemorrhage of this kind oc- curred in any of his patients. (See Lcf07is Oralcs, <5-c. t. iv. p. 412.) The regular dressing of stumps is also deferred by Mr. Listen for six or eight hours, or till all oozing has ceased; merely lint wetted with cold water being at first placed over the wound. (See Lisi07i's Elcm. part m. p. 368.) The second sort of hemorrhage, after amputa- tion, arises from ulceration of arteries, and may occur a few days, or even some weeks or montlis, after the operation, when all the ligatures have come away, and the patient seems nearly well. Two such cases are related by Mr. Bromfield. (Vol i. p. 307.) .1. L. Petit saw an nistance in whicii the hemorrhace came on twenty d.-iys after amputation of the thigh very high up; and Baron Dupuytren refers to an example in La Uiaritt, where the bleeding took place two months after an