HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. 877 it was fomierly the custom to make free in- cisions through the scalp down to the damaged bone, to prevent inflammation and its consequences, and in some parts of the skull, as in the temporal regions, this was considered especially desirable; but the practice is obsolete, and no surgeon would, in the absence of cerebral symptoms, consider him- self justified in wilfully mutilating the scalp, and laying bare the contused bones, unless there were other reasons than those of an anticipatory character to justify this procedure. But after severe contu- sion, thickening of the pericranium to a limited ex- tent occasionally remains, and this is accompanied by pain on pressure, severe headache, and symp- toms of great constitutional irritation, and even epileptic convulsions have been distinctly traced to such a cause : under these circumstances a free in- cision through the pericranium to the bone itself is often followed by the happiest results, and all fur- ther mischief is prevented. We have also occasion- ally seen much benefit from incisions where the peri- cranium has been more extensively implicated, as in deep-seated inflammation'of the scalp, involving the pericranium, and attended with fever, head- ache, and a sense of great constriction. There is one precaution requisite in incising the pericranium under such circumstances, namely, the avoidance of the large branches of the arteries of the scalp, as no advantage is gained by the loss of much blood. The relief appears to arise from the re- moval of the tension of the part by the incision, and by the escape of a moderate quantity of blood. In many cases of contusion fatal inflammation attacks the bones, and extends to the membranes of the brain and the brain itself, long after the original injury. We quote from the writings of Pott two illustrations of this :— " An elderly woman riding in a hackney coach, by a sudden jolt struck her head with great vio- lence against an iron hook at the top of it. The blow gave her exquisite pain at the time, but that soon ceased, and as it caused neither wound nor tumefaction she took no further notice of it. At the end of near two months she was seized with a violent pain in her head, so violent that for seve- ral nights she was obliged to have recourse to laudanum, in order to obtain a little broken rest. In about a week the pain went off, and a tumor arose just where she had been stricken, that is, just in the middle of the sagittal suture. I opened the tumor and discharged a considerable quantity of discoloured and very oflFensive matter. I passed my finger into the opening, and to my great asto- nishment found it touched the dura mater. I removed a circular piece of the scalp, and found the two ossa parietalia bare, and carious for a considerable extent on each side of the suture ; and in the middle of this carious piece, just in the track of the suture, a hole large enough to admit easily any man's forefinger without touching the edges of the bono. The dura mater lay at a considerable distance from the skull in that part: the discharge from within was very largo and offensive, and about three months from the time of the accident she died suddenly in a kind of fit." (Poll's Surrjer)/, by Earle, vol. i. p. 1 \ !y.) " A sailor, in an engagement, received a severe blow on the head by a largo splinter: a small wound and a considerable bruise were the conse- quence, but they were so soon well that the man did duty in a few days. At about seven weeks' distance from the time of the accident, he began to complain of great pain in his head, which pain rendered him so incapable that he was put into the hospital at Gosport, He remained there about three weeks, frequently but not constantly in pain, and during that time had three or four fits of an epileptic character. He was now sent to St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital, where, having mentioned the circumstances of the blow, I was requested to examine him. There was not the least degree of swelling or inflammation, no mark or vestige of scar, nor any elevation of the scalp, or fluctuation under it. While I was examining his head, he had a slight attack of spasm ; but on my desist- ing he became easy and tranquil. The circum- stance of this attack, while I was pressing upon the part, did not at that instant strike me as worthy of notice ; but upon reflection it appeared much so. The next day I made the same experi- ment with the same effect; that is, upon hard pressure he became convtilsed, which convulsion ceased upon removing the fingers, but was followed by a rigor. On the following day I ventured to repeat the experiment; but the man was so im- mediately and so terribly convulsed that I deter- mined never to try it again. It was agreed in consultation that, considering the inefiicacy of all that had hitherto been done, and what had lately happened, the most probable method of attempting his relief would be by denuding and perhaps per- forating the cranium, in the place where the pres- sure produced so strange an effect. " The next day I removed a circular piece of the scalp, and found the pericranium not of a healthy or sound colour, nor adherent to the bone. The bone was carious, and had several small holes in it through which a sanies rose and fell, according to the motion of the blood in the brain. I applied a large trephine, without any regard to the suture, and removed a piece of skull. During the time of the operation the poor man suffered greatly from spasm ; but, that over, he became easy and quiet. The dura mater was detached from the skull, and had matter on its surface which was extremely offensive. The ensuing night he passed ill, and the next day had such a rigor, that I verily be- lieved it was the last trouble the man would have. The day after this I found him vastly better: the discharge had been large, but he had not suft'ered any return either of spasm or rigor, and his prin- cipal complaint was extreme lowness. " Everything for several days wore a favourable aspect. On a sudden he was seized with all the symptoms of a peripncumony, and on the third day from that seizure died. No apparent cause of mischief was found either within or on the outside of the head ; the dura mater was well in- earned, and no lodgment of matter was seen." (Op. cit. p. 119.) I'crsislcnce nf fixed Pain in ilie Head after injury lo lha Jtone. — Quesnay (Memoirs of ihc Anyid Academy of Sunjcry of France) has collected toge- ther many cases in which, after contusions of the bones of the skull, pain has continued in distinct spots of the cranium, leading eventually to the ne- cessity of applying the trephine. In some cases the bono has been found much condensed in texture ; in some no evidence of disease has been recognised, whilst in others tlic disease has been eventually discovered after death in tho brain or its mem- branes. Wo shall briefly refer to a few instances