3 I 2 parts, gives it a new covering, and entirely excludes it from the outward wound. The same circumstances are also remarkable in the portion of the vessel most remote from the heart. Its orifice, however, is usually more con- tracted, and its external coagulum smaller, than the one which attaches itself to the other cut end of the artery. (Jones, On Hcemorrhige, p. 56.) According to Mr. Guthrie's observations, the lower end of a divided artery is more prone to se- condary hcemorrhage than the upper; and this he believes to be so much the fact, that, when haanior- rhage returns, after having been arrested for a period of four hours, it is in all probability from the lower end. This, he further observes, may always be known by the "darker colour of the blood, and by its flowing out in a continuous stream, in the same manner as water rises from a spring, and without an arterial impulse. The surgeon has no right to believe that the blood comes from the upper extremity of the arteiy, unless it is of a florid scarlet arterial colour, when it will usually rush out with force, if not with undisguised arterial impetus." The greater disposition to secondar}' hcemorrhage in the lower than in the upper end of the artery, is thought by Mr. Guthrie to depend upon the retraction and contraction of the former, being neither so perfect nor so permanent as in the latter; a statement at variance with that of Jones. He suspects, also, that the internal coagu- lum is in many instances altogether wanting, or very defective in its formation. (See G. J. Guthrie, On the Dis. and Injuries Artenes, p. 240.) We have seen that Dr. Jones found the external co- agulum smaller here than that which is formed over the mouth of the end of the artery nearest the heart. The darker colour of the blood from the distal end of the artery is ascribed by M. Sanson to its previous passage througii the capillary ves- sels; and the fact, he says, was observed by John Hunter. {Des Hhnorrhugies Traumatiques,'^. iB.) The impervious extremity of the artery no longer allowing blood to circulate through it, the portion which lies between it and the first lateral branch gradually contracts, till its cavity is completely ob- literated, and its tunics assume a ligamentous ap- pearance. In a few days the external coagulum, which in the first instance stopped the hcemorrhage, is absorbed, and the coagulating lymph effused around it, and by which the parts were thickened, is gradually removed, so that they resume again their cellular texture. At a still later period, the ligamentous portion is reduced to a filamentous state, so that the artery is, as it were, completely annihilated, from its cut end to the first lateral branch; but, long before this final change is accomplished, the inosculating branches have become considerably enlarged, so as to establish a free communication between the dis- united parts of the main artery. As Mr. Guthrie observes, out of four or five inches of the artery, two or three will be impervious, and the remaining part very much contracted, although, perhaps, still permeable by a probe. The accompanying nerve, where there is one, has under- gone a change, the very reverse of that of the artery, its cut extremity having become enlarged or bulbous, the nerve gradually diminishing up- wards until it resumes its proper size. {On Dis. and Inj. nf Arteries, p. 248.) When an artery has been divided at soma dts- RHAGE. 851 ianee from a lateral branch, three coagula are formed : one of blood, externally, which shuts up its mouth; one of lymph, just within the extre- mity of its canal ; and one of blood, within its cavity, and contiguous to that of lymph. But, when the artery has been divided near a lateral branch, no internal coagulum of blood is formed. {Jones, p. 63.) The external coagulum is always formed when the divided artery is left to nature : not so, how- ever, if art interfere, for, under the application of the ligature, it can never form. If agaric, lyco- perdou, or sponge be used, its formation is doubt- ful, depending entirely upon the degree of pressure that is used ; but the internal coagulum of blood will be equally formed, whether the treatment be left to art or nature, if no collateral branch be near the truncated extremity of the ai-tery ; and, lastly, effused fibrine, which, when in sufficient quantity, forms a distinct coagulum, just at the mouth of the arterywill be always found, if the hsemorrhage be permanently suppressed. (Jones, p. 74.) Means which Nature employs for suppress- ing THE HEMORRHAGE FROM PUNCTURED OR PARTIALLY DIVIDED ARTERIES. The suppression of htemorrhage by the natural means is sometimes more easily accomplished, when an artery is completely divided, than when merely punctured or partially divided. Completely dividing a wounded artery was one means practised by the ancients for the stoppage of haemorrhage: the moderns frequently do the same thing, when bleeding from the temporal artery proves trouble- some. Dr. Jones has related many experiments, highly worthy of perusal, and which were undertaken to investigate the present part of the subject of hae- morrhage. Pie candidly acknowledges, however, that, in regard to the temporary means by which the bleeding from a punctured artery is stopped, he has but little to cadd to what Petit has ex- plained in his third publication on haemorrhage. {Mem. dc I'Acad, des Sciences, 1735.) The blood is effused into the oellul.ar substance, between the artery and its sheath, for some distance both above and belovv the wounded part; .and when the parts are examined,ashort time after the hiemorrhage has com- pletely stopped, we find astratum of coagulated blood between the artery and its sheath, extending from a few inches below the wounded part to two or three inches above it,and somewhat thicker, or more prominent, over the wounded ptirt than elsewhere. Hence, rather than say that the luemorrhage is stopped by a coagulimi, it is more correct to say, that it is stopped by a thick lamina of coagulated blood, which, though somewhat tliicker at the wounded part, is perfectly continuous with the coagulated blood lying between the artery and its sheath, [Jones, p. 113.) When an artery is punctured, the immediate h«;morrhage, by filling up the space between the artery and its sheath with blood, and consequently distending the sheath, niters the relative situation of the puncture in the sheath to that in the artery, so that they are not exactly opposite to each other; and, by this means, a layer of blood is confined by the sheath over the puncture in the artery, and, by coagulating there, prevents any further effusion of blood,