generally required to prodiice the injury and the damage the brain sustains in consequence ; and the event is seldom postponed for many days. Thus it is generally found that the brain has undergone most extensive contusion or laceration, and that hicinorrliage from its ruptured vessels or from the lacerated sinuses of the dura mater has taken place. In considering tlie almost necessary fatality attend- ing fractured base, we ought not to lose sight of the fact that all the cranial nerves either take their origin at the base of the brain or are traceable somewhat deeper into the cerebral substance, and that they all make their exit through the foramina at the base of the skull, and are consequently im- plicated individually or collectively in fracture of this part. The situation of the medulla oblongata, with which the respiratory nerves are connected, is not unimportant; for fractures frequently occur in the direction of the foramen magnum, and thus in- volve this important part of the oncephalon. It is impossible to ascertain the result of all cases of fractured base, and there can be no doubt that many cases recover completely. The mortal- ity from this source is, however, exceedingly high. From personal examinations of a great many cases we have ascertained that of all fatal cases of injury of the skull examined after death at the London Hospital, those of fractured base constitute above eighty per cent. We have alluded to eases of re- covery in which there can be no doubt whatever of their true nature. Hewett has collected ac- counts of thirteen cases of recovery, and he gives the result of dissections made some time after the original accident. In the greater number of these cases the patients appear to have survived the injury only a few months,—from two to seven months; but there is one solitary instance of a man who died in St. George's Hospital of ulcera- tion of the stomach three years after an injury of the skull: he was pitched from his horse, the result of which was an injured scalp, followed by delirium, &c. " In the preparation a distinct line of fracture can be traced through the left side of the occipital bone from the upper part to the point where the groove of the lateral sinus terminates in the jugular foramen. In its upper part this extensive line of fracture is closely united by in- laid bone; externally there is merely a linear groove, and internally the union is more perfect, the line of fracture being visible here and there only. All this part of the bone is very mucli thickened, and extensively jirrforated by minute holes, some distance even beyond the line of in- jury. In the lower half of the fracture the edges of the bone are tliin, and bevelled off by absorption; here there is a slight gap, which was filled up by dense fibrous tissue. At the end of this fissure, where the groove for the lateral sinus terminates in the jugular foramen, the bone looks as if it had been broken up into several pieces. The union is perfect, but tlie lateral sinus is at this part all but obliterated, and the occipital is here ankylosoci, on the one hand, to the petrous hone at the jugular articulation, and, on the other hand, to the atlas at the condyloid articulation." In the Museum of the College of Surgeons there is a specimen of a fractured base taken from a man who lived seven months after the accident. The fracture traversed the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone, the former part of which was closely and smoothly united, with the HEAD, INJURIES OF THE. " 895 exception of a few minute apertures; but In the part which traverses the petrous bone there are only a few small points at which union has taken place. At the upper surface of the base of the petrous bone there is a considerable loss of sub- stance, leaving a large hole leading directly into the cavity of the tympanum. The margin of this hole, and the bone around, are smoothly rounded ofl", as if from absorption. These dissections prove that patients occa- sionally recover from fractured base; they &how also that wherever the fracture occurs, if life is prolonged, union to a certain extent occurs; and further, that fractures of the base generally impli- cate the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Hilton has illustrated this in the following way: he fixed a skull with its base upwards and its vertex downwards, and placed a strong bar of wood across the occipital condyles, and then by means of a hammer he applied a strong blow as evenly as possible over its centre. The result was a fracture through the petrous portion of the temporal bone, the line of fracture intersecting the membrana tympani. Mr. Humphry, in his work On tJie Human Skeleton, has detailed some experiments per- formed on the dry skull to show the course of fractures through the base : he found that a skull allowed to fall several feet on the vertex upon a brick pavement was fractured in the following manner :—" A fissure, starting from the junction of the frontal with the parietal, ran through the left temporal fossa behind the zygoma, through the external auditory passage and the tympanic part of the temporal bone. Here the fracture was very severe, a portion of bone being quite loose, and tlie cavity of the tympanum largely exposed. From this it reached the foramen lacerum anterius, crossed the sella Turcica to the opposite foramen lacerum, and terminated in the right temporal fossa. A secondary fissure ran, nearly at right angles to the former, from the right foramen lacerum anterius, through tlie line of junction between the petrous aud occipital bones, to the jugular foramen, and terminated in the right side of the occipital bone." The experiment is also supposed to illustrate frac- ture by conirc-coup, as before observed. Mr. Hewett mentions two very remarkable cases in which the condyles of the lower jaw were for- cibly driven through the glenoid' cavity into the interior of the skull. We quote them in consequence of their extreme rarity. " A boj', aged twelve, was admitted into St. George's Hospital in February 1853, having fallen from the top of a house into an area. He was perfectly insensible, never rallied, and died four hours after his admission. There was a general contusion of the brain, and a fiacture of the middle fossa of the base of the skull, corresponding to the bottom of tlie left glenoid fossa, and through this opening the condyle of the jaw projected into the cavity of the skull." The other is taken from Chassaignac, I'kms de Tote, p. 1S8, Jow: Ilehdom. torn. iii. pi ;i7, Sept. 1034. " A sailor, when drunk, was thrown out of n second-story window, and fell upon his chin; lie was conveyed to tlio Naval Hospital. 'I'he jaws were closely set, so that it was impossible to open his mouth; the under part of the chin was bruised, and the lower jaw was dri- ven backwards and to the left. The right tcmporo- maxillary region was painful and bruised. The