was not a pure case of glaucoma. A patient may lose the sight of one eye without being aware of it. Other cases have occurred where a considerable loss of blood, hastened the progress of glaucoma. Sudden loss of vision in slightly glaucomatous eyes, with or without pain, has occurred after stooping, during mental excitement, and during several other incidents which disturbed the circulation. Vision may return and then become gradually lost, or the eye may remain blind. As for Von Graefe's operation it may be said that the more the turbid state of the media contri- bute to the impairment of vision, the better is the prognosis of the case ; and also that those patients who were operated upon in due time, have not only retained the vision they had before the opera- tion; but sight has, in the great majority been con- siderably improved. Retina. Ophthalmoscopic examination. A satisfactory idea of the state of this membrane cannot be formed in most cases of acute, and in some of chronic glaucoma, on account of the turbid state of the media. In all cases of chronic glau- coma we find, if the media are transparent, a slight loss of transparency of the retina; in advanced cases it appears hazy and greyish; the result of this state is that a smaller amount of light is obtained in the vitreous space than is usual, because the trans- parency of the retina is impaired by the glauco- matous changes in it, and thus intercepts the light. In ail cases of acute and chronic glaucoma, which were complicated with a turbid state of the media, ecchymoses upon, in, and beneath the retina were observed, and a few fresh or old ecchymoses were seen in cases of chronic glaucoma with transparent media. Those which are in the substance of the retina are generally small, round, and well-defined; they remain persistent for two to three months, turn brown, and gradually disappear; those beneath the retina are flat, large and generally numerous; they disappear in from two to six weeks, leaving behind an irregular distribution of the pigment granules of the hexagonal cells; they impair vision much less than those in the substance of the retina, and arc most numerous beneath the middle and anterior portions of that membrane. Those effu- sions of blood which perforate the retina towards tho vitreous humour appear as small red clouds suspended in front of the retina; they are gene- rally accompanied by grey opaque portions of the vitreous humour. Ecchymoses at the yellow spot, or optic nerve, are more dangerous to vision than those which occur around it. The appearance of these ecchymoses, I believe, coincides with the inllammatory attacks of glaucoma. Retinal vessels. The retinal vessels in the fellow eye to the one attacked by acute glaucoma were, with one exception, large, numerous, gorged with blood, and unequally dilated. On the diseased Iside in all the cases of chronic glaucoma there was a decrease in the number of the arteries, and the veins appeared unequally dilated. The retina which carried the smaller number of blood-vessels was the most diseased; in some of the glaucomatous eyes whicli had been blind for years there were only one or two thin vessels traceable in the retina. After Von Graefe's operation, an increase in the diameter and number of the vessels in less advanced cases of chronic glaucoma and a return to the normal straight course was observed. The vessels of the retina were, GLAUCOMA. 781 in some of tho cases of acute glaucoma, numerous, tortuous, and gorged with blood; in others they were thin and few in number. The retinal vessels could not be traced to many of the ecchymoses. The optic nerve and the retinal vessels presented signs of intra-ocular pressure in all cases of acute and chronic glaucoma. These are _ 1. A facility of interrupting the circulation in the optic nerve by slight pressure upon the eye. 2. A spontaneous pulse in the arteries extending from the entrance of the artery to the point where it passes into the retina. This was in some accom- panied by a movement of the veins, synchronous with it. _ . 3. Decrease of all the vessels while in the optic nerve. 4. A change of colour of the optic nerve. 6. A cupping of the optic nerve in chronic and (after the inflammatory attack has passed by) in most of the acute cases of glaucoma, with a lateral displacement of the vessels, proportionate to the depth and the sharpness of the margin of the cup. The following remarks regarding the state of the optic nerve and of the retinal vessels in it have been taken from the analysis of the above fifty-one cases:— The changes observed in the sound eye (the fellow eye suffering from chronic glaucoma) were : A. A decrease of vessels, chiefly of arteries. B. An optic nerve in some cases of a palepink; in others of a pale waxy appearance; in many cases with a greyish pink circle near its periphery, and a diminished resistance to pressure; in several cases with a tendency to an arterial pulse. The changes observed in the sound eye (the fellow eye suffering from acute glaucoma) were : an optic nerve of a pale pink colour and rather small in size, the retinal vessels in it being thin and showing a marked loss of resistance to pressure. Changes in the eye suffering from chronic glau- coma: A cupped optic nerve, with irregularities in the size and course of the retinal vessels. The cup or excavation in the optic nerve is slight at first, and frequently confined to a part of the nerve only, but may comprise its whole surface. Itbecomea gradually deeper, and in advanced cases reaches to the opaque portion of the optic nerve; in these cases the whole of the optic nerve fibres, from the retinal to the scleral aperture, have been destroyed; the retinal vessels are displaced sidewards and pressed against the walls and the margin of the cup; the latter is formed by the scleral and choroidal aperture; the full retinal veins arrive at the edge of the cup, then wind round it, and reappear thin in the cup, or disappear after having passed the edge. The cupped optic nerve has, in chronic glaucoma, a grey white, or bluish grey appearance, which may turn red by eifiisions of blood; tho vessels in a deep cup are thin, and pidsation of tho arteries is rarely observed. The arterial pulse is frequently met with in the early stiige of cupping of the nerve, and in eyes which siift'er from slight inflammatory (glaucomatous) attacks. The optio nerve in less advanced cases assumes, after Voiv Graefe's operation, a waxy white appearance, tho vessids become more numerous and can bo traced over the margin of tho cup. The loss of vision is attributed to tho destruction of the optic nerve fibres, these are pressed against the scleral and choroidal aperture: it has several times been noticed where tho cup was confined to