ANEURISM. 188 natural, that it ought ever to be fomented, or covered with flannel. In particular examples, there is no increase of temperature in the limb at any period after the operation ; a fnct, which Mr. Hodgson refers to the probabilitj'- of a col- lateral circulation having already been established, in consequence of the obstruction to the passage of the blood through the main artery by the ac- cumulation of the congulum in the aneurismal sac. Of course, unless a collateral circulation be established, the operation cannot succeed, as the limb will mortify: it behoves us, therefore, to be aware of the circumstances which may prevent the due transmission of the blood to the inferior part of the limb. These are ably explained and commented upon in Mr. Hodgson's work : 1st, An extensive transverse wound, by which the principal anastomosing branches are divided. 2ndly, Tigh, bandages and pressure operating so as to obstruct the same vessels. 3rdly, The immense bulk of the tumor, and the pressure upon the principal col- lateral arteries. 4thly, Calculous depositions in the coats of the arteries of the limb. 5thly, Ad- vanced age. 6thly, A languid state of the circu- lation ; a fact, indicating the wrongness of vene- section, as a general practice after the operation, though it may yet be right to adopt this treatment, where the pulsations return in the tumor with unusual strength, and appear to stop the diminu- tion of the swelling. 7thly, The abstraction of heat from the limb by cold evaporating lotions ; a plan which can only be right when there is a great increase of heat in the limb, a tendency to inflammation, or a return of strong pulsation in the tumor. Sir Astley Cooper saw a case, in which the application of white-wash occasioned mortifica- tion and the patient's death. In cold weather, he always covers the limb with flannel, or a stocking, and sometimes puts jars filled with hot water to the feet. (See Lancet, vol. ii. p. 42.) If secondary hemorrhage were to occur, ought we to take up the artery higher up, or have re- course to direct pressure on the bleeding point ? In one case under Mr. Colles, he applied a com- press, pressed down with a screw affixed to an iron hoop about half an inch in breadth, and suffi- ciently long to encompass the thigh. With this instrument, any degree of pressure could be made on the artery, whilst little or none was made on other parts, and the collateral circulation remained free. The bleeding returned once, but was at length permanently stopped. " My chief object (says Mr. Colles) in recording this case, is to show the advantage to be derived from pressure properly made, in arresting secondary hemorrhage from such a vessel as the femoral arter)-, and the greater benefit likely to arise from such a mode of pro- ceeding than from tying the artery higher up, which, in the majority of cases in which it has been tried, has failed of saving the life of the patient. (See DuUiii Jomti. of Med. Science, vol. v. p. 3G.) Sometimes pressure will ansvver, and then the ligature of the artery higher up be- comes unnecessary ; but pressure may not suc- ceed. In an interesting case under Professor Rcgnoli, the femoral artery was tied in the upper third of the thigh, and secondary he- morrhage took place about a week after the operation. The blooding was supin-rssed for a time by pressure on the bleeding point, and the application of a bladder filled with ice to the wound. The hemorrhage returned, however, and Regnoli decided to take up the external iliac ar- tery. This measure permanently stopped the bleeding ; and, ilwiiyh ihe ariery was so completely ossified, where it was tied, tlicU, on iightenmg ihe Ufjalnre, a remarkable crepitation was distinctly heard, and it xvas even apprehe?ided that ihe ligature had broken ihe vessel completely through, the liga- ture came away on the eighteenth day, without any bleeding. The arterj', in fact, had become obliterated. In the end, however, the patient died of gangrene in the leg. {Istoria, 4'c. inlorno nn Aneurisma Poplileo, Pisa, 1 833, p. 26, &c.) When the operation is done according to the principles laid down in this article, the patient is not too old nor enfeebled, and the after-treat- ment is properly conducted, mortification cannot be said to be a frequent event. In one case, operated upon by Sir Astley Cooper in 1823, the whole of the foot and part of the leg mortified ; but it should be noticed, that in this instance, the whole limb was extremely swollen previously to the artery being taken up. (See Lancet, vol. i. p. 436.) In all his extensive practice, he has seen but three or four instances of a failure of the operation from gangrene. (Lecttires, ^-c. vol. ii. p. 60.) Mr. Listen has related one example, which he ascribed to the improper use of fomentations with hot salt water. (See Edinb. Med. Joum. No. .QO, p. 3.) As, however, the patient seems to have been of a very phlogistic diathesis, and to have been attacked with inflammation of other parts, the reality of the alleged cause appears questionable. I have seen but one example of gangrene, and in that only one toe, and a portion of the skin of the instep, sloughed in a very debi- litated subject. This partial gangrene of the foot was particularly noticed by Deschamps and Scarpa, the latter of whom regards it as an unusual thing, only likely to happen in old, weak, or un- healthy subjects ; and "at any rate (says he), if this should happen in any of these enervated indi- viduals, the patients may console themselves for the loss of one or two of their toes, with the cure of a popliteal aneurism, and the avoidance of a painful and dangerous incision in the ham, and of the tedious suppuration which would have fol- lowed it." Sir Astley Cooper has known retention of urine brought on by the operation in one or two exam- ples,°and the" use of the catheter indispensable. {Lectures, c^^r. vol. ii. p. 5S.) Sir Charles Bell met with a case in which the femoral artery divided below the profunda into two equal branches, the most superficial of which was alone noticed and tied in the operation. The patient died of consti- tutional disturbance, arising from inflammation in the whole course of the eartorius. After two or three days, the pulsation of the tumor, which had been very strong, ceased in consequence of the coagulation of the blood within the sac ; another fact exemplifying that this desirable change wi not be prevented by a current of blood bemg still propelled through the aneurismal cavity. (See Qiiarierhi Journ. vol. iii. p. 607.) Mr. Liston has recorded a case, m which the pulsation and tumor returned several months after the operation. " On consulting with Dr. 1 homson, it was agreed to try the effect of methodical ban- daging, from the points of the toes upwards, and