HEAD, INJURIES OF THE, 90.0 subject obscure. Tlie practical bearing of tlie question is of the highest importance, as it leads us at once to the adoption of a mode of treatment generally successful provided no extensive lesion of the brain has occurred. After recovery from some of the most violent forms of concussion the memory is affected in a marked degree, and the patient is not only insensible to every occurrence subsequent to the injurj^ but he frequently loses all recollection of what had taken place just prior to the accident; whilst in other instances his re- collection remains affected either permanently or, at any rate, for a very long period. We shall quote two instances, showing the effect on the memory, from the essay on injuries of the head by Sir Benja- min Brodie, in the 14th volume of the Medico- Chirurgical Transactiojis. " A groom in the em- ployment of the Persian ambassador, in the summer of 1819, was engaged in cleaning one of the ambassador's horses, when he received a kick from the animal on the head. He did not fall, nor was he actually insensible or stunned ; but he entirely forgot in what employment he had been engaged at the time of receiving the blow. Being unable to account for the time that had elapsed, he concluded that he had been asleep ; said so to his fellow-ser- yants, observing at the same time that he must set to work to clean the horse, which he ought to have done before instead of going to sleep." " A boy, going down into the hold of a ship, fell from a considerable height and struck his head. He lay insensible, as it appeared from the observa- tion of his shipmates, about half an hour, when he came upon deck without any assistance. Never- theless on the following day all the circumstances of the accident had passed from his memory. Some time afterwards, when he was received into St. George's Hospital, I found that he knew nothing of the accident except from the report of others. He had not only entirely forgotten the accident itself, but he did not even remember his having gone down into the hold of the vessel before the accident, nor his having come upon deck after- wards ; and he never regained his recollection on these points." Sir Astley Cooper also mentions an instance of a man labouring under concussion whose me- mory was curiously affected. " A man was taken to Guy's Hospital in a state of insensibility, in which condition he remained for some time, but at length recovered ; and when he did so, no per- son in the hospital could understand his language. A milkwoman happening to go into the ward one day, heard him, and discovered that he was speak- ing Welsh. He told her that he knew English well before the accident, but after it all knowledge of that language was obliterated from his mind. It had been recently acquired. The impression was less strong, and consequently the more easily effaced." Dr. Abercromby also records many instances showing the effects of concussion on the memory. {Abercromby, On the Intelleclual Funclions, 10th ed. p. 148, &c.) These phenomena, however, if permanent, may be regarded as depending rather on some organic lesion of the cineritious substance of the brain than as the result of mere concussion. The gradual recovery after a longer or shorter period indicates the return to a sound condition ; but facts arc wanting still to prove the precise effects on particular portions of the encephalon, in cases where the permanent loss of memory has con- tinued after all other symptoms have passed away. The three stages described by Abernethy are not always present, but they may be taken as elucidating the type of many cases. The impos- sibility of accurately defining the periods between the first and second tends to confound the judg- ment ; and the occurrence of the second stage points out to us a greater extent or a higher degree of concussion than is met with in ordinary in- stances. Nor is the third stage, or that of inflam- mation, invariably present; recovery often takes place without it, a simple restoration of all the functions of the brain being the only indication of what has been termed reaction, in which, however, a great tendency to inflammation exists. Although the symptoms of concussion are traceable generally to the immediate effect of the accident upon the brain, nevertheless these are occasionally at first so slight as to be scarcely recognised even by the patient himself, or they are absent altogether. And yet, after a longer or shorter interval, they gra- dually supervene, and, after increasing in intensity, disappear again. Thus a man receives a blow on the head, but he feels little or nothing of it. In the course of half an hour his head begins to ache, his eyes grow dizzy, his ears tingle, and he be- comes insensible. After a short time, by suitable treatment, these symptoms all disappear, and no further inconvenience results. Mr. Alcock, in an able essay on injuries of the head, mentions the case of a soldier who, in the campaign during the civil war in Spain, was struclc on the os frontis • with a musket-ball. He walked to the hospital from the field of battle, and conversed intelligibly for some time. Soon after he became quite coma- tose, his pulse became slow and weak, his skin pale and benumbed. These symptoms were all relieved by purging, bleeding, &c., and he ultimately com- pletely recovered. A short interval had elapsed before the symptoms of concussion could be said to have made their appearance, and it is very difficult to explain their immediate cause. It is most pro- bable that the veins had become gradually con- gested, or the brain had suffered contusion, and slight hajmorrhage had occurred into the cerebral tissue from the rupture of the capillaries in the cineritious substance. (See Land. Med. Gaz, vol. xxiv. 1839, p. 446.) What is the pathological condition of the brain in concussion? This is a question very difficult to an- swer, for patients rarely die of simple concussion; indeed, it is exceedingly doubtful whether death ever occurs, after a severe injury to the brain, without laceration of the organ or an extensive effusion of blood upon its surface, or both com- bined. From our own experience we believe that death never happens in concussion without some appreciable lesion of this organ. Of the precise nature of the disease in question, it appears that the first symptoms are referable to a sudden dis- charge of nervous power, not unlike the discharge of accumulated electric fluid in a battery. And this takes place in consequence of some violent shock to the brain, by which the soft particles of neurine, of which it is composed, are aflccted in a manner we cannot compreiiend. The effects of concussion on tlio brain itself may be, to a certain extent, exemplified by what happens when a sud- den blow is inflicted on any of our sense-organs, as, for instance, the eye and the ear, Take the former