LIES OF THE. 927 HEAD, INJU] probability depending on the inability to give ut- terance to distinctly articulate sounds and to eflfect their ordinate arrangement. The observations just made refer more particu- larly to supposed contusions of the cerebrum, as the part necessarily more frequently injured. The cerebellum and other parts of the encephalon are nevertheless occasionally the seat of contusion and laceration; but it is impossible in severe injuries of these parts of the nervous system to form an accurate diagnosis of them. Some curious circum- stances in relation to injuries in the region of the cerebellum now and then force themselves on our observation, which it becomes a matter of consi- derable interest to inquire into, as they are sup- posed to throw light upon the functions of this organ. We allude to the supposed influence of such injuries upon the generative sj'stem of the male subject. Whether the physiological inference be legiti- mately deducible from sucli cases or not, we are not prepared to say; but the evidence on record is sufiicient to justify an inquiry into the effects of contusions of the cerebellum upon the organs of generation. Some cases are here quoted from! Larrey. " A sol- dier of the ai-my of Egypt, eighteen years of age, re- ceived a blowuponthe napeof the neck,accompanied with considerable contusion and ecchymosis in the occipital region. Inflammation of the surrounding tis- sues and of the cerebellum set in. An abscess formed near the occiput. The symptoms were very severe, but yielded to antiphlogistic treatment. In three months he was able to join his regiment, and he returned to France. Some years afterwards he presented himself at the hospital of Groscaillou : he was now thirty-two years old, but he had every appearance of a young conscript ; he was thin and meagre, his countenance pale and wrinkled, his eyes sunk, lips pale, his hair scanty and brist- ling, especially about the occipital region, where he felt a constant pain and coldness; but his intellec- tual faculties had remained uninfluenced. He was beardless, and his voice was feminine. He had so much of the female character about him that some doubts existed as to his sex; but upon examination his genital organs were found reduced to the size of an infant's three months old; his penis, which was only five or six lines in length, was incapable of erection, and his testicles were no larger than small beans. He attributed this change in his condition to the injury, since which his beard had gradually disappeared, and previous to which he had enjoyed the usual sexual faculties of his age." The next instance of a similar affection of the generative system occurred to an officer of the horse artillery who was struck by a mus- ket-ball which traversed the extensor muscles of the head, and glancing over the occipital fossa?, which were remarkably prominent, com- pletely denuded them of their aponeurotic con- nections. After the wound was dressed he suffered severe pains in the occiput, with a sense of weight in the head, with numbness and stiffness of the lower extremities. His sight and hearing failed him so that he was scarcely able to distinguish large objects and to appreciate the most acute sounds. His testicles became atrophied, and his penis diminished in the same ratio and remained incapable of erection. The wound was healed by the fiftieth day. The third patient that came under the notice of Larrey with injuiy to the cerebellum was a cavalry soldier of a robust constitution and much addicted to women. He received a sabre wound in the occipital region, which divided the skin and the convex portion of the occipital bone, so as to ex- pose the dura mater, which was also wounded. The right lobe of the cerebellum was seen through the opening of the membrane. The slightest touch of this organ gave rise to vertigo, syncope, and convulsions, but excited no pain. A continual escape of fluid from the inner surface of the dura mater prevented the union of the wound. Very soon after the accident he lost both sight and hear- ing on the side corresponding to the wound, and he complained of acute pain in the course of the dorsal region of the spine, with a sense of pricking in the testicles, which diminished in volume with great rapidity, so that in fifteen days the right testicle was reduced to the size of a garden bean, and he lost all desire for the other sex. His wound was proceeding favourably, but the func- tions alluded to appeared entirely lost; symptoms of inflammation, however, came on, and continued to increase notwithstanding the adoption of strict antiphlogistic means. The pains in the head and down the spine were most severe; he lay on the side of the injury coiled upon himself. The slightest motion excited convulsions, and when raised to expel the contents of his bowels he fell into a frightful state of syncope. He died thirty-nine days after the accident, having been seized with opisthotonos. On examination after death a large portion of the occipital bone had been destroyed; the opening through the dura mater corresponded to the centre of the right lobe of the cerebellum, which was depressed and of a yellowish colour, without suppuration or extravasation. The me- dulla oblongata and spinalis were white in colour and of a firmer consistence than natural, and re- duced one-fourth of their natural size. Larrey also mentions two other instances of atrophy of the organs of generation as the result of abscess in the cerebellum; and he sums up the following observations on injuries of this portion of the encephalon :—1st, That in injuries of the cerebellum the intellectual faculties and senses, except sight and hearing, suffer no derangement. 2ndly. That the locomotive organs, with one excep- tion, have not been found affected, and that, in the exceptional case, the arm of the side corresponding to the injury was affected. 3rdly. That lesions of the cerebellum have a decided tendency to dimi- nish the power of the generative system, and to induce atrophy of the organs of generation. And, lastly, that accidents of this description are not of necessity fatal, as has been usually said to be the case. The physiological inferences drawn by Larrey from these facts appear to be so far fairly sustained, and they are corroborated by the observations of others. The following case was seen by many surgeons of the metropolis a few years since :—A man who had been a soldier during the civil war in Spain re- ceived a blow from a cannon-ball in the occipital region whilst in the trenches, and, after recovery from the effects of the injury, his testicles began gradually to diminish in size and firmness, and he iiegan to assume in a great measure the characters of the opposite sex. His beard nearly disappeared, his voice altered, and largo mnmmte began to de-