7C2 FRACTUKE, well [In a fracture without displacement of the foot or at the_ seat of fracture, it matters little what apparatus is employed; lateral splints or M-lntyre's apparatus, succeeded in a few days by the starch bandage, will answer every indication. Indeed, in all cases, whether with or without displacement M'Intyre's splint, or Listen's modification is as' convenient and effectual an apparatus as can be desired. (See Dislucaiioiis of ihe An/cle-Joini.)} [Fractures op the Astragalus.] [A fall from a height upon the foot occasionally produces a fracture of this bone, but it is a rare lorm of accident. In a simple fracture, the frag- ments are not usually displaced, and, beyond °a general swelling of the ankle, there is no evidence externally of the nature of the injury, which is likely to be mistaken for a sprain. Mr. Lonsdale mentions a case in which the bone was broken into several pieces, and the patient was treated for a severe sprain, there being no reason to suspect a Iracture, which was only discovered after the death ot the patient, which took place on the twelfth day from the severity of the symptoms which en- sued. (Treatise on Fi-act.-p. 531.) The fracture may take various directions. M. Malgaigne met with a case m which it was transverse, the bone being divided into an anterior and posterior half ^lealso mentions a case under M.Tavignot where tlie Iracture was in the antero-posterior direction with incomplete fracture of the neck of the bone! feir A. Cooper mentions one in which the bone was broken almost horizontally into an upper and lower portion. This was a compound dislocation, and the lower ends of the tibia and fibula, with the upper division of the astragalus, protruded throuah the skin at the outer side of the ankle. It was found necessary to remove this part of the bone before the dislocation could be reduced, but the patient idtimately did well; an artificial joint was formed, and he recovered with a very good use of his foot. (See Sir A. Cooper, On Didocaiions, &c ed. hy B. Cooper, p. 290.) A case has been already referred to (see art. Dislocations, ante, p. 582), in which the body of the astragalus was separated by fracture from the head and neck, and was dislocated forwards upon the tarsus. The dislocated portion, which was loose, was removed through the wound on the dorsum of the foot, and the patient recovered the almost perfect use of his foot.] [Fractures of the Os Calcis.] [Fractures of the os calcis maj' be produced in two ways,—by muscular action, and by direct vio- lence, such as a fall on the heel. Ot ihtt/raclure hij muscular action, two cases are mentioned by Sir A. Cooper. The first was that of a lady who when walking in a field stumbled and fell, and was for some time unable to rise. The OS calcis was found to be fractured, and its posterior part was drawn up by the action of the gastrocne- mius to three inches from its situation. She was very unruly, and would not submit to the appropri- ate treatment; the bone therefore remained in this position, and the interspace was filled up by ligamen- OUS sub , jj^ bend iul ? ''^''\'^' ■'^W'-' to I'end and extend the foot, and to walk tolerably the care of Mr. Green, who fractured the bone W the violent action into which the muscles of the W were thrown in her eflbrts to preserve herself from falling downstairs. A high-heeled shoewas used for the purpose of keepin^the tendo Ach lis n Its most complete state of Relaxation, bu i"l! mentous union only could be efifected. (See A. Cooper, On Disloeations. ^-e. eel. A Co^e" *'"'«,^'/"d in most other cases which have suffici'entl '''' f - "Ot sufficiently explained ; it does not appear whether any considerable portion of the bone detacJed 01 whether merely the surface into which the tendon IS inserted was torn off. There will not be much difficulty m ascertaining the nature of the iniury the separated portion will be readily felt, drawn up by the muscles of the calf to a greater or less extent. Ligamentous union was the result in the two cases which have been mentioned, but in others which have been recorded osseous union was obtained, and there appears to be no difficulty in the consolidation, if the fragments can be main- tained m contact or nearly so. The treatment con- sis s m relaxing as much as possible the muscles oi the calf, and to effect this the leg must be bent on the thigh, and the foot be extended on the le.^ A convenient apparatus for the purpose consists of a slipper, to the posterior part of which a strap is attached, which is passed up behind the leg and tastened to a broad leather belt which is buckled round the lower part of the thigh. The resultina inconvenience does not appear to be great, even if osseous consolidation is not obtained, but the patients are able to walk with the aid of a high- heeled shoe, and sometimes even without this assistance, nearly as well as before. In the fracture from direct violence, the bone is usually more or less comminuted, and M. Mal- gaigne, who was the first to call attention to this form of injury, speaks of it as the "/hjc/Hre par ecrasement. It is more frequent, he thinks, than the fracture by muscular action. It is almost always produced by a fall on the heel, and the bone "is broken into several pieces, which may be impacted into each other, so that the breadth of the bone is in- creased, but its height is diminished. This fracture IS situated chiefly in the sub-astragaloid portion of the bone, while the fracture by muscular action always occupies that part which is posterior to the astragalus. The symptoms, as described by M. Malgaigne, are a severe pain in the part, and a swelling which is rapidly developed around the two malleoli, the instep, part of the dorsuui of the foot, the two sides of the foot beneath the malleoli, and part of the sole, while, singularly enough, the heel and the region of the tendo Achillis are exempt from it. This swelling masks the deformity of the parts, but on e.\aniiiiation it may be felt to be soft opposite the malleoli, while under the malleolus internus the finger rests upon an abnormal projection formed by the lesser process of the os calcis. Crepitus is obscure and sometimes absent; the best way to obtain it is by lateral or twisting movements of the os calcis. The characteristic deformity is an increased breadth of the os calcis, a diminution of the arch of the foot, and in some cases an increased promi- nence of the heel. The fracture is usually con- fined to the OS calcis, and rarely if ever complicated