EYE. 663 They are all of them attended with more ot less con- cussion, laceration, stretching, and partial contu- sion, of the delicate anterior textures of the eyeball; a consideration, as Beer'observes, materially aifect- ing the prognosis. When in such injuries of the cornea, inflammation and suppuration cannot he prevented, or the discharge is protracted, an obvious scar is always the consequence, which, •when situated in the centre of the cornea, is a serious impediment to -vision. Every endeavour should therefore be made to unite the wound by the first intention ; and the best chance will be afforded by treating the eye precisely in the same manner as after the extraction of a cataract. (See Cataract.) And when the plan fortunately succeeds, the flow of the aqueous humour out of the eye ceases in ahout 36 or 48 hours, and the anterior chamber becomes distended again; but the site of the injury continues visible for some time afterwards. The speck, however, ultimately disappears, though much sooner in young, healthy subjects than in the aged and feeble. When the opacity does not go oif of itself, Beer finds a coUyrium, containing some of the lapis divinus (see Lachrymal Organs) and the vinous tinc- ture of opium the most effectual means of dis- persing it. Through large wounds penetrating the cornea near its edge a fold of the iris is apt to protrude, and when it does it should be replaced, which can only be effected without mischief to the eye by gently rubbing the upper eyelid, and then letting a strong light suddenly strike the organ. In this case, the employment of instruments is considered by Beer highly objectionable. When the iris is not immediately reduced, it, as well as the cornea, is attacked with inflammation, and soon becomes firmly adherent to the edges of the wotmd. (See Iris, Prolajisus of the.) Large wounds penetrating the eyeball, and reaching the iris, are always of a verj' serious nature, even though the latter part may have received only a prick, or cut, because, as the injury has been produced by accident, and not by art, the wound of the iris cannot be free from all laceration and contusion. It is incredible, says Beer, what extensive injuries the iris will bear in healthy indi- viduals at its pupillary and ciliary edges, especially when produced by very sharp instruments ; nay, rents may happen at both its edges, without any ill consequences, if the constitution be favourable ; a proof of which fact is seen in the two common methods of forming an artificial pupil, viz, the extension of a piece of the iris and the detachment of tlie iris from the ciliary ligament, as practised both by Schmidt and Scarpa. But, according to Beer, all violent pressure, or actual contusion, par- ticularly when it affects the portion of this organ between its two circles, cannot be borne even in the best constitutions, and the least grievous consequence is inflammation, soon followed by a partial, or com- plete closure of the pupil, or suppuration in the • eyeball. When the instrument causing such in- jury passes to the iris through the cornea, as is mostly the case, and the wound in the latter tunic is extensive, the torn iris is frequently pulled be- tween the edges of the wound, at the moment when the weapon is withdrawn, and protrudes in a lace- rated state. In this case, Beer recommends the torn projecting piece of the iris to be cutaway will scissors close to the wound in the cornea, wlicii tlie rest, he says, is generally retracted within the eye Thus an adhesion of the iris to the cornea, termed syiicclda anterior, may often be prevented, which, when the lacerated iris is suffered to hang out of the cornea, is inevitable, surrounded by a large opaque cicatrix. Some violent blows on the eye, though they cause no wound, are attended with such a con- cussion of the anterior hemisphere of the organ, that more or less of the iris is instantaneously se- parated from the part of the ciliary ligament, where the force is most vehement. The consequence of this accident is either a double pupil, or the natural pupil closes, and the artificial one remains open. Such injuries may be produced by the lash of a whip, or a horse's tail (a common accident in the narrow streets of Vienna), or the thrust of any bluntish weapon against the outer part of the cornea; and they are purposely inflicted in the method of forming an artificial pupil, recommended both by Schmidt and Scarpa, Wounds, which enter the eye through the scle- rotic near the cornea, usually produce a consider- able effusion of blood in the chambers of the aque- ous humor ; but, Beer thinks, that there is never any necessity for making an opening for its discharge at the lower part of the cornea, except when it is so considerable as completely to hide the iris ; and at the same time that the eyeball is affected with very painful tension and hardness. Wounds of the eyeball, affecting thecorpusciliare, are set down bj' Beer as extremely dangerous, in- dependently of the inflammation which quickly fol- lows. However, such injuries are most serious when they consist in a real contusion, or laceration of the corpus ciliare, which can hardly take place without a severe concussion, or actual disorganisation of the retina, and laceration of the principal ciliary nerves and vessels. Hence, besides an effusion of blood in the chambers of the aqueous humour, a partial or complete amaurotic blindness is instantly pro- duced, and the iris, in the vicinity of the place where the instrument entered, is so retracted to- wards the margin of the cornea, that neither of its circles can be seen. In cases of this description, it also frequently happens, says Beer, that the patient, or the person who inflicted the wound, sud- denly and roughly pulls the weapon out of the eye again, and together with it a part of the corpus ciliare, which is then to be regarded as an extrane- ous substance, and to be immediately cut off. With respect to the prognosis and treatment, the observations already made on these topics, in re- ference to wounds of the iris, are here quite ap- plicable ; excepting that the effused blood is less copious than in the latter cases, and therefore there can never be any necessity for letting it out by a depending opening in the cornea. Wounds of the eye, affecting the crystalline lens, are not unfrcquontly followed by the formation of a cataract, and so arc blovvs on the eye, which may bo supposed to produce this effect by destroying some of tlie minute nutrient vessels naturally con- necting the capsule with the lens. {Beer, b. i. p. 211!.) The treatment of these accidents resembles that of injuries of the iris, except that the surgeon has rarely any extravasation of blood to deal with. However, when the lens has slipped into the anterior chamber, Boer recommends its innnediatc extraction through an incision in the cornea, in order to pre- vent the eye from being destroyed by a violent at- tack of traumatic inflammation and suppuration. V V i