721 FRACTURE, is shorter than its lellow, and is usually drawn somewhat inwards by the action of the coraco- brachialis and deltoid muscles. The nature of the accident will often be much obscured by the effusion of blood, and by the inflammation which speedily follows. Sir A. Cooper mentions four cases in which death ensued at some distance of time after the accident, and the parts were examined. In two the fracture was at the anatomical neck, and with- in the capsule ; in the other two it appears to have been situated below the tubercles. In all four a more or less perfect joint had been formed between the glenoid cavity and the shaft of the humerus, and the head had become connected, either by bone or ligament, with the inferior costa of the scapula or with the subscapular fossa. All the lower movements of the shoulder were tolerably perfect, but the arm could not be raised beyond a right angle with the body. (On Dislocations, S^c. p. 418.) M. Malgaigne records eight cases of fracture at the anatomical neck accompanied with dislocation ; two of the eight, however, are the same which have been already referred to as related by Sir A. Cooper. In four the head was displaced into the axilla; in two it had escaped from the capsule backwards on to the dorsum of the scapula, and in the remaining two, forwards under the cla- vicle. (See Malgaigne, Traite. cles Fractures, A-c. t. ii. p. 548.) In the treatment, it is useless to attempt to reduce the dislocation of the head of the bone; but we should endeavour, as far as possible, to re- tain the fractured end of the shaft in apposition with the glenoid cavity. For this purpose Sir A. Cooper recommended a pad to be placed in the ax- illa, the shoulder to be steadied and drawn back by the clavicular or figure of eight bandage, the arm to be bound to the side, and the forearm supported in a sling. When the inflammation has been reduced and the swelling has subsided, passive movement should be assiduously employed, in order that the movements of the new articulation may be rendered as exten- sive as possible. There is always some fear that the head of the bone, being completely separated from all its connections, may become necrosed, and so excite inflammation and abscess : in the majority of cases, liowever, it does not lose its vitalit)', but remains quiescent in its new situation, and con- tracts adhesions to the surrounding parts. Some- times the tuberosities, or the upper part of tiie shaft, are severely comminuted, and the patient may even lose his life from the severity of the injury and the inflammation to which it gives rise.] Fractures of the Shaft of the Humerus. Fractures of this portion of the bone may be transverse or oblique, simple or compound. When the fracture takes place above tiic insertion of tiie deltoid muscle, the inferior portion is drawn out- wards and upwards by tiiat muscle, while the su- perior portion is drawn inwards by the action of the pectnralis, latissimus dorsi, and teres major muscles. When the fracture is below the inser- tion of the deltoid, the deformity will bo in the opposite direction, as that muscle will then tend to draw outwards the superior fiagmcnt. Transverse fractures in the inferior third of the bone are attended with but little displacement, for the hrachialia anticns and the triceps, being uttjichcd posteriorly and anteriorly to both fragmentsi counteract one another, and permit only a slight angular displacement. Oblique fractures, however, are usually attende with displacement, whatever be the part of the bone broken. The inferior portion being drawn upward by the action of the biceps and long por- tion of the triceps, and if above the centre of the bone by the deltoid and coraco-brachialis also, glides easily on the superior, and passes above its lower extremity. The shortening and change in the direction of the limb, the crepitus, which may be very dis- tinctly perceived Ijy moving the broken pieces in opposite directions, the pain, and impossibilit)' of moving the arm, &c. joined to the history of the case, render the diagnosis sufficiently plain. In a simple fracture of the shaft of the humerus, the prognosis is generally favourable ; but frac- tures near the elbow are liable to be followed by more or less stiffness of the joint, often very dif- ficult of removal. Treatment of fractures of tlw sliaft of the htmencs.—In ordinary fractures of the humerus, extension, if necessary, should be made by an assistant, who draws the lower portion of the bone downward and bends the elbow, while the surgeon applies a roller round the limb. An external splint should then be applied, extending from the acromion to the outer condyle, and being lined with a soft pad, it cannot hurt the limb by pres- sure. An internal splint should reach from the margins of the axilla to a little below the inner condyle, and should also be well guarded with a pad, filled with tow or any other soft material. Some surgeons are content with the application of two splints, but though the two above described are those on which we are to place the greatest reliance, yet, as the cylindrical form of the arm conveniently allows us completely to include this part of the limb in splints, I consider the employ- ment of four better: one on the outside, one on the inside, one on the front, and another on the back of the arm. These are to be carefully fixed in their respective situations by means of tape or a roller. Throughout the treatment, the elbow and whole of the forearm are to be quietly and effec- tually supported in a sling. [In doing this, care should be taken not to do more than support the elbow, for if it he pressed upwards, the broken ends may be made to overlap, especially if the fracture be oblique. On the other hand, if the elbow be left entirely unsupported, the weight of the limb may cause an undue separation of the fragments, and thus prevent consolidation taking place. This is probably the principal reason why ununited fracture is so nmcl> more frequent in the humerus than in other bones. In the fracture above the insertion of the deltoid, where the upper fragment is displaced inwards, a cushion may be placed in the axilla after tlie splints are applied, in order to throw outwards this portion of the bone. In very oblique fractures below the deltoid, there is sometimes considerable difficulty in pre- venting overriding of the fraaments. In a case of this kind the splint devised by Mr. Lonsdale for the pui|)03e of making pcruKnieut extension' may be employed with advantage. It consists of a thin bar of iron, an inch and a Imlf wide, to be used as an internal splint, and so contrived at its aA