HYPERjflMIA. mental faculties; and of the limbs in exercise; is attended with a similar effect. In all these cases the hypersemia is more or less transient, and the accumulation of blood, with its consequences, is checked by the exercise of the function of the part and the absence of any stasis, or obstruction to the onward current. Increased nutrition and secretion are promoted by habitual physiological hyperaemia. Organs and tissues are prone to morbid hyper- semias in proportion, in a great degree, to their vascularity, to their functional activity, and to their general consistency, and the distensibility of their vessels. As a pathological condition it occurs under numerous circumstances, and presents several well-marked varieties. 1. Plethora or general hypersemia implies, to a certain extent, local hyperaemia of all the organs and tissues; but this fulness also predisposes to an unequal distribution, and to partial accumulations or determinations of blood from causes which would otherwise prove too slight to produce such effects. 2. Hj^peraemia arises from the irritation of the arteries appertaining to a part, and probably of the veins also, as from friction on the surface of the body, exposure to a high temperature, or such stimulant applications as a mustard poultice, or excitants taken into the blood. The same result follows from various influences operating on internal organs and tissues. This is the active determination of blood, or the active or sthenic hypersemia or congestion of authors. 3. Mechanical obstruction to the return of blood by the veins. As the arteries in the former, so the veins are primarily affected in this variety. When the principal venous trunk of a limb is compressed, as in tying up the arm for venesection, no adequate collateral channel being established, the capillaries become loaded and dilated, and the limb simply hypersemic. The erect posture acting mechanically, particularly in certain states of debility involving the vascular tunics and their supports, produces the same effect; and we have another very familiar instance in the posterior part of the lungs from the recumbent posture. 4. Hypersemia e vacuo. This is another form, in its nature mechanical, as where produced by atrophy of the brain within the unyielding skull, or in the gravid uterus after rapid delivery {Rokitansky, Syd. ed. vol. i. p. 108); also, in the skin by the operation of cupping, or in abscesses or cysts from the evacuation of fluids. 5. Hy- persemia occurs where there is no evidence of excitement of the part, or of any previous increased force or velocit}' of the blood in the arteries, or of defective nutrition of the vessels, or mechanical obstruction or pressure. This constitutes the pas- sive hyperccmia or congestion which attends various nervous affections, asthenic inflammations, and low fevers produced by poisons in the blood; and is pro- bably dependent on influences exerted primarily on the nerves of organic life. 6. Malnutrition and atony of the vessels of a part, which become distended with an unusual quantity of blood, al- though there may be no obstruction to its return, is another form of passive hyperemia; in tuber- culous subjects many of the tissues are parti- cularly liable to hyperajmia of this nature. Great differences of opinion have prevailed as to the nature of the changes in the vascular system whicli attend some of these forms of liyperocmia, and particularly the more active, and as to the sequence of the phenomena. According to some of the best observers, a stimulus or exciting cause applied to a part acts directly upon the arteries, in- creasing their action, and inducing them to supply to the capillaries an excess of blood, but this excess can reach only to a certain extent, and then the capillaries contract. If the effect terminate here the hypersemia is but transient, and the part recovers its healthy condition. If, on the one hand, the capillary plexus becomes loaded and dis- tended, the veins failing to return the blood as rapidly as it is supplied, the change from the arterial to the venous character of the fluid passing through, and particularly of that accumu- lating in the part, is interfered with and dimin- ished. This condition cannot continue long. If the change be slight the capillaries return to their original calibre, the contraction beginning at the centre of the hyperasraic part, and extending to the circumference, and, either with or without effusion of some of their fluid contents, the hyper- semia, as in the first case, vanishes. If, on the other hand, the altered condition be more intense, or prolonged, the current of the blood is retarded, the corpuscles become grouped together in masses, applying themselves to the walls of the capillaries, and displacing the parietal layer of the liquor san- guinis, changes of composition then occur in the liquor sanguinis, with exudation, and the motion of the blood becomes gradually weaker, until, fre- quently, a complete stasis is formed. The congestion passes into inflammation. (See Inflammation.) Various and even contradictory theories have been adopted in explanation of these phenomena. According to the neuro-pathological view, all the effects, in active hypersemia, result from an irrita- tion of the sensitive nerves of the part, producing an antagonistic palsy of the nervi vasorum ; hence dilatation is the primary change and the accumula- tion of blood secondary. According to another theory, the stimulus applied to the fluids of the parenchyma increases the attraction exerted be- tween them and the blood, retarding the current and causing the blood corpuscles to crowd together; hence, the accumulation of blood is primar}' and the dilatation of the vessels secondary By an- other theory the stimulus is supposed to produce contraction of the veins and retardation of blood in the capillaries. By some pathologists it is thought that the phenomena of hyperasmia cannot be explained without admitting with Pfliiger that a set of nerve-fibres exist, whose sole function is to arrest or diminish action. Perhaps the most satisfactory explanation is that of Virchow, who states that the arteries arc contracted by a stimulus applied to their muscular tissue, and the contraction is succeeded b}' a state of relaxation from exhaustion, the persistence of the relaxation being in proportion to the degree of previous stimulus; and that, in active as well as in passive hypera;mias, we have to deal with a kind of paralysis of the walls of the vessel, the condition of the vessel being a completely passive one. " The more active the vessel the less the supply of blood." {Cellidar Paihologrj.) Mechanical hyperemia is a more simple process. Some pathologists consider that the eflfects of pres- sure and venous obstruction, producing serous effusion but not exudation of liquor sanguinis, ought not to be confounded with true hypera;nu». Effusion may undoubtedly take place without any