1050 HYDBOPHOBIA, slant it was discharged from a patient's mouth, and he inserted some of it into eight punctures made on tiie inside of a dog's four legs, yet six months after this inoculation the animal had not suffered the slightest inconvenience. (Essaisurle Tetanos Rabiens, p. 29.) A siniilnr experiment was made on three dogs by M. Paroisse, who kept the ani- mals between three and four months afterwards, during all which time they continued quite unaf- fected. {DM. Mid. t. 43.) Dr. Bezard published the following experiments: pieces of the flesh of a person who had died of hydrophobia were smeared with his saliva and given to a dog, another dog was suffered to eat the salivary glands, and a third the sides of a wound. In three other dogs incisions were made, the cut parts were then inoculated and sewn up. Not one of these six animals became affected with rabies. (See Man. et Obs. his a laSoo. Med. Plii- lanthropique,premiere anneo, 1807, p. 17.) The preceding experiments only furnish negative results, but there is one which tends to establish a contrary opinion. On the 19th of June, 1813, in the Hocel Dieu at Paris, Magendie and Breschet took some of the saliva of a man who died a few minutes afterwards of hj'drophobia, and, by means of a bit of rag, they conveyed this saliva to the short distance of twenty paces from the patient and in- oculated with it two healthy dogs. One of the dogs became rabid on the 27th of July, and bit two others, one of which was attacked with com- plete rubies on the 26th of August. (C. Busmout, see Collect, des Theses, in 4to, de la Faculie, Paris, 1814.) Busmout remarks in the work that the fore- going is one of the best authenticated experiments on the subject, for, in addition to the consideration of the talents and character of the experimenters themselves, the facts were witnessed by numerous medical students. And notwithstanding the ob- jections which have been urged against the ac- count (see Journ. Gen. de Med. t. lii. p. 131), the main points are declared to be entitled to credit. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. t. xlvii. p. 48, also Journ. de Pkysiologie par F. Magendie, t. i. p. 42.) With these relations, it is proper to notice certain cases too credulously promulgated as proofs of the possibility of the disease being communicated from one human being to another. Neither the instance of the maid-servant who died merely from seeing her mistress vomit while labouring under hydro- phobia {Mich. Ettmuller, Op. Med. t. ii.); tlie case of the peasant's children, which all died on the se- venth day, as is alleged, from embracing their dying father; the example of a woman contracting hydro- phobia from her husband, as detailed by iMangor, {Ada Soc. Reg. Hafniens, vol. ii. obs. 32, p. 408 j; nor other cases of a similar tenor, are now regarded as proving anything more than that the patients, supposed to have caught the disease by contagion, fell victims either to violent affections of the mind and nervous system, or illnesses accidentally taking place soon after the death of a near relation or mistress. It is clear enough also, that some of the cases were, at most, only instances of symptomatic hydrophobia. Witli regard to another opinion that the bite of a man or other animal, when merely enraged, may bring on hydrophobia, it is now entirely discarded as erroneous. The cases in support of it recorded by CI. Pouteau, Mangetus, Malpighi, Zuinger, Le Cat, &c. when critically examined, only prove tlint the patients were affected with tetanus or syrap. tomatic hydrophobia, not arising from any infeei tion; for neither the mode of attack nor the progress of the symptoms, in any of theexamples wbicli are related with sufficient minuteness, lead to the in- fcrence that the patients actually died of inocu. lated rabies. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. t. xlvii. p. 49.) [One case only is recorded in modern times which can be supposed to favour the opinion that the human saliva is capable of communicating the disease. This case, or rather this series of ciiset, was published in Silliiiian's Journal for Octi)bet 1832, by Rev. W. Carl, of Chester, Con. U.S. at which place the patients resided. In 1807 W. C. set. eleven, was bitten by a dog having the symptoms of rabies, and which was soon after shot Fifteen years subsequently the disease made its appear- ance. " He had a short season of strange excite- ment during public worship on the Sabbath. Ala neighbour's house the next day, he suddenly jumped, screamed, broke windows, and ran out of the door with great nimbleness of foot. He soon became quiet and returned, and when his friends remonstrated with him for this conduct, and he said he could not avoid doing this, for he had been bitten by a mad dog. During the progress of the disease he gnashed his teeth, discharged huge quan- tities of saliva, had distressing spasms, and was set on biting everybody and everything." He made holes in his pillow-case with his teeth, and took pleasure in attempting to spit on his attend- ants ; when he succeeded he was seized with a fit of laughter. When he had been in this state fourteen or fifteen days death closed the scene, Sept. 1, 1820. {Smih,loc. cit.) L. T. C. was bitten by W. C. and three and a half years sub- sequently became similarly affected. " He would hop backwards and forwards, and talk incoherently for a few minutes, and then say he was sorrj' he conducted himself so, but he could not avoid it. He had a horror of fluid, and spurted the water which he took in the face of his attendants ; he frothed at the moutli,and watched his opportunity to bite." Two other persons bitten by W. C. subsequently died with similar symptoms. It seems right to give a full account of this remarkable case here, and the more especially that it was copied into all the journals at the time of its publication. But it must be observed that the symptoms in no way accorded with those of rabies in man. The disposition to bite and spit, and the like, accord well with the popular notions of hj-drophobia, and these cases must clearly be classed under those of dis- tressing mental disorder, produced probably by the fear of hydrophobia, and ending fatally. Of this there arc many other instances.] Wrong noiiims, of a dangerous tendency, hare been generally entertained in regard to the uisense as it appears in the canine race. The writer of the article Dog in Dr. lices's Ci/clopccdui appear to have had extensive opportunities of observing the disorder in dogs ; from his remarks the follow* ing information may be gleaned : The peculiar symptom which often attends the complaint in the human subject, has been applied to the disease in the dog, and has occasioned it to be called by the same name hydrophobia. Thisisa palpable misnomer, for in no instance does there ever exist any dread of water, on the contrary dogs are in general very greedy of it. Neither