CATARACT. tainty until an operation is undertaken. When I When the opaque lens is cither more indurated 4-20 Of Spurious Cataracts. The most frequent, according to Beer, is what ho names tlie li/mph-calanwt. It is, without ex- ception, the effect of an inflammation, which is chiefly situated in the iris, the lens and its capsule. Hence, it is frequently combined with a genuine cataract. The nature of the disease may be known from the patient's account that the present blind- ness has been preceded by a painful tedious affec- tion of his e^-e and head ; and from an examination of the eye itself, in which the pupil will be found more or less diminished and angular ; the iris either perfectly motionless, or nearly so ; the eye- sight and even sometimes the perception of light more or less impeded, or lost, and this not merely in proportion to the quantity of lymph observable immediately behind the pupil, but also in propor- tion to other morbid effects produced in the organ by inflammation. Lastly, the surgeon may notice, directly behind the pupil, a plastic lymph, either in the form of a delicate kind of network, or of a thick web of a snow-white colour. Sometimes, in this variety of spurious cataract, though very little coagulating lymph appears upon the anterior portion of the capsule of the lens, and what is effused, as well as the lens itself, is almost clear and transpa- rent, yet the eyesight is considerably impaired, and, on more careful examination of the pupil, something of a dark-brown colour is perceived, which often projects, at several points behind the pupillary edge of the iris, a good way towards the centre of the pupil. In this substance one may discern, with a good magnifying glass, new vessels extending from those of the uvea, and formed by the previous inflammation ; by means of which vessels, this mass, and the delicate layer of lymph are connected with the capsule of the lens. A rare variety of spurious cataract described by Beer is the hlood-catarael. Either from some con- siderable injury of the eye, a large quantity of blood is extravasated in the chambers, and slovWy absorbed, a part of it, however, remaining in the posterior chamber in the form of small clots, en- cysted in the lymph which was clYused during the inflammation ; or else, in the course of a more tedious and neglected case of hypopium, blood is effused in the chambers of the eye, and still con- tinues in the same form behind the pupil, after the matter has been absorbed. In the first example this cataract looks like a reddish web, interwoven with silvery streaks or threads; the pupil, though angular, is seldom contracted ; the iris nearly or quite motionless'; and not only is the light clearly distinguished, but a partial degree of vision some- times retained. On the contrary', in the second instance, the opacity behind the pupil is very dense, white, studded with reddish or brownish points or specks, having a clustered appearance, and frequently projecting tlirough the pupil into the anterior chamber ; while the pupil itself is very small and angular, the iris quite incapable of motion, and generally either no perception of light remains, or only a very confined, indeterminate sensation of it. Another classification of cataracts, which is of great importance to an operator, is founded upon their consistence ; for this makes not only a great difference in the prognosis, but also in the choice or a method of operating. than in the natural state, or retains a tolerable de- gree of firmness, the case is termed a. firm or liard cataract. When the substance of the lens seems to be converted into a whitish or other kind of fluid lodged in the capsule, the case is denominated a inilky 01-fluid cataract. When the opaque lens is of a middling consistence, neither hard nor fluid, but about as consistent as a thick jelly or curds, the case is named a soft or caseous cataract. When the anterior, or posterior, layer of the crys- talline capsule becomes opaque, after the lens itself has been removed from this little membran- ous sac, by a previous operation, the affection is named a secondary cataract. The harder the^ cataract is, the thinner and smaller it becomes. In this case the disease re- presents either an ash-culoured, a yellow, or a brownish appearance. Tlie interspace betwixt the cataract and pupil is considerable. The patient distinctly discerns light from darkness, and when the pupil is dilated, can even plainly perceive large bright objects. In the dilated state of the pupil, a black circle surrounding the lens is very perceptible. The motions of the iris are free and prompt ; and the anterior surface of the cataract appears flat, without any degree of convexity. Beer says that it is only the genuine lenticular cataract which can be hard, and it is chiefly met with in thin elderly persons; but the opinion that all cataracts in old persons are firm is con- tradicted by experience. In cataracts extracted from thin aged individuals, the lens is sometimes found dwindled, as hard as wood, nearly of a chestnut-brown colour, and with its two surfaces as flat as if they had been compressed. This case has sometimes been denominated the dark-grey cataract, and is very diiRcult to make out previously to an operation, being liable to be mistaken for air incipient amaurosis. Hence, in order to judge of it effectually, the pupil should always be dilated. The fluid or milky cataract has usually a white appearance, and irregular spots and streaks, differ- ent in colour from the rest of the cataract,are often observable on it. These are apt to change their figure and situation Avhen frequent and sudden motions of the eyes occur, or when the ej'es are rubbed and pressed ; sometimes also these spots and streaks vanish, and then re-appear. The lower portion of the pupil seems more opaque than the upper, probablj' because the untransparent and heavy parts of tlie milky fluid sink downward to the bottom of the capsule. The crystalline lens, as it loses its firmness, commonl}' acquires an augmented size. Hence, the fluid cataract is thick, and the opacity close behind the pupil. Some- times ono can perceive no space between the cataract and margin of the pupil. In sidvanced cases, this aperture is usually very much dilated, and the iris moves slowly and inertlj'. This hap- pens because the cataract touches tlie iris and im- pedes its action. The fluid cataract is sometimes of such a thickness that it protrudes into the pupil, and presses the iris so much forward as to make it assume a convex appearance. Patients who have milky cataracts may distinguish light from darkness very indistinctlj'. i According to Beer, a fluid cataract is mostly i conjoined with a complete opacity of the capsule : I its diagnosis, therefore, is commonly difficult, and I sometimes its nature cannot bo known with cer- I