850 IItEMORRHAGE. diameter of its mouth, assisted by the comp.csBive I into the surroundinK cellular tissnp n.n.. retracting artery leaves the internal surface of the sheath uneven, by lacerating or stretching the cellular fibres that connected them. These fibres entangle the blood as it flows, and thus the found- ation IB laid for the formation of a coaguluin at the mouth of the artery, and which appears to be com- pleted by the blood, as it passes through this canal of the sheath, gradually adhering and coagulatijiz around its internal surface, till it completely fills It up from the circumference to the centre." (Jones, p. 53.) The effusion of blood into the surrounding cel- lular tissue, and between the artery and its sheath, but, in particular, the diminished "force of the cir- culation from loss of blood, and the speedy coagu- lation of this fluid under these circumstiinces, most essentially contribute, says Dr. Jones, to the de- sirable effect. It appears then that a coagulum, which Dr. Jones calls the external one, situated at the mouth of the arter}^, and within its sheath, forms the first complete obstacle to the continuance of bleeding; and though it seems externally like a continuation of the artery, yet, on slitting open this vessel, its termination can be plainly observed, with the co- agulum shutting up its mouth, and contained in its sheath. _ No collateral branch being very near the imper- vious mouth of the arterj-, the blood just within it is at rest, and usually forms a slender conical coa- gulum, which neither fills up the canal of the artery nor adheres to its sides, except by a small portion of the circumference of its base, near the extremity of the vessel. This coagulum is distinct from the former, and is called by Dr. Jones the internal one. The description given by Mr. Guthrie of this subject differs in some respects from that of Dr. Jones. The contraction of the divided end of the artery is alleged by Mr. Guthrie " to be <:onfined, m the first instance, to its very extremity, so that the barrier, opposing the flow of blood, is formed by this part alone. This contraction, however, goes on increasing for the space of an inch, and the inside of this contracted inch of the vessel is filled up with an internal coagulum, which takes the shape of, and adheres to, the inside of llui arteri/, rarely extending as far as a collateral branch, or, under almost any circumstances, bej-ond a couple of inches. {On Bis. and Injuries of Arteries, p. 247.) ^ J > i- The cut end of the artery next inflames, and the vasa vasorum pour out lymph or fibrine, which fills up the extremity of the artery, is situated between the internal and external coagula, and is somewhat intermingled with them, or adheres to them, and is firmly united all round to the internal coat of the vessel. Dr. Jones further states that the perma- nent suppression of haMiiorrhage chiefly depends on this coagulum of fibrine; but that the end of the artery is also secured by a gradual contraction which it undergoes, and by an effusion of fibrine between its tunics, and into the surrounding cel- lular tissue; whereby these parts become thickened, and so incorporated with each other, that one can- not be discerned froni the other. Should the wound in the integuments not heal hy the first in- tention, the coagulating lymph, soon effused, at- taches the artery firmly to the subjacent and lateriJ tumid, the eflSux of blood may be stopped." White was convinced, from what Gonch had suggested, and Kirkland confirmed, that the arte- ries, by their natural contraction, coalesce as far as their first ramification. Dr. Jones admits, that an artery contracts after it has been divided, and his experiments authorise him to say, that the contraction of an artery is an important means, but certainly not the only, nor even the chi^ef means, by which ha;morrhage is stopped. When the artery is above a certain size, the impetuous flow of blood through the wound of the artery would resist the contraction of the vessel in such a degree, that the consequences would be fatal in almost every instance, were it not for the formation of coagulum. Mr. J. Bell supposed, that when hsemorrhage stops of its own accord, it is neither from the re traction of an artery, nor the constriction of its fibres, nor the formation of clots, but by the cells of the cellular tissue which surrounds the artery being injected with blood. I must refer the reader to Dr. Jones's work for a complete exposure of the inconsistencies and absurdities in Mr. Bell's ac count of his own theory. (See p. 25, &c.) Dr. Jones concludes his criticisms on Mr. Bell with observing, that if this gendeman really mean to confine his doctrine of the natural means of sup pressing hasniorrhage to the injection of the cellu- lar tissue round the artery with blood, he dwells improperly on one of the attendant circumstances, to the exclusion of the retraction and contraction of an artery, and the formation of a distinct clot all primary parts of the process. ^ The blood, besides filling the cellular tissue round the artery, also fills that which is at the mouth of the artery in a particular manner; for the divided vessel, by its retraction within its cellular sheath, leaves a space of a determinate form, which, when all the circumstances necessary for the sup- pression of hajmorrhage operate, is gradually filled up by a distinct clot. (Jones,) Arteries of the fourth or fifth order, like those of the forearm and leg, have not any well-defined sheath; and hence the constantly greater difficulty of insulating small vessels than large. (See P. Mancc, De la Ligature des Aneres, p. 3.) Means op Nature in stopping Bleeding FROM DIVIDED Arteries. Dr. Jones has given a faithful and accurate detail of a series of experiments on animals, which demonstrate, " that the blood, the action, and even the structure of the arteries, their sheath, and the cellular substance connecting them with it," are concerned in stopping bleeding from a divided artery of moderate size, in the following manner: —"An impetuous flow of blood, a sudden and forcible retraction of the artery within its sheath, iind a slight contraction of its extremity, are the iinmediate, and almost simultaneous, effects of its division. The natural impulse, however, with ■'^'hich the blood is driven on, in some measure counteracts the retraction, and resists the contrac- tion of the artery. The blood is eftused into the cel ular tissue between the artery and its sheath, aiKl, passing through that cnnal of the sheath Z llZ fl ^T' ^"""^'l retraction of the a'tery, flows freely externally, or is extravasated