CATARACT, contviual rising of tlie catamct is caused by the operator's running the needle into it, the instrument must either be withdrawn far enough out of the eye to let it be again properly brought into the posterior chamber, when reclination may be effec- tually repeated ; or if the cataract be firmly fixed on the needle at the bottom of the e3'e, the instru- ment should not be raised again, but, previously to being withdrawn, it should be rotated a couple of times on its axis, whereby the pierced lens will be more easily disengaged from the needle, and at last continue depressed. (Lehre von den Auqenh- b. ii. p. 356—358.) ^ In addition to Beer's directions for couching and reclination, the following observations seem to me to merit attention : — When the case is a fluid or milky cataract, the operator frequently finds that on passing the point of the couching-needle through the anterior layer of the capsule, its white milky contents instantly flow out: and, spreading like a cloud over the two chambers of the aqueous humour, completely conceal the pupil, the iris, and the instrument from his view ; who, however, ought never to be discouraged at this event. Although it seems to me most pru- dent to postpone the completion of operations with the needle, in the example of blood concealing the pupil, in the first step of couching, and not to renew any attempt before the aqueous humour has recovered its transparency, I am inclined to adopt this sentiment, chiefly because the species of cata- ract is, in this circumstance, generally unknown to the operator, consequently he must be absolutely incapable of employing that method of couching which_ the peculiarities of the case may demand. Speaking of this case, however, Beer says, "The surgeon must hasten the completion of extraction or reclination, though possibly the operation may not always admit of being continued ; or if gone on with, it must be done, as it were, blindfold." {Lehre, ^'c. b. ii. p. 361.) When a milky fluid blends itself with the aqueous humour, and prevents the surgeon from seeing the iris and pupil, this event is itself a source of information to him, inas- much as it gives him a perfect insight into the nature of the cataract which he is treating, and in- structs him what method of operating it is his duty to adopt. The surgeon, guided by his anatomical knowledge of the eye, should make the curved point of the needle describe the segment of a circle from the inner towards the outer canthus, and in a direction backward, as if he had to depress a firm cataract. {Scarpa.) Thus he will succeed in la- cerating as much as is necessary the anterior layer of the capsule, upon which, in a great measure, the perfect success of the operation depends ; and not only in the milky, but almost every other species of cataract. The extravasation of the milky fluid in the chambers of the aqueous humour, spontaneously disappears very soon after the operation, and leaves the pupil of its accustomed transparency. " In twelve cases of a dissolved lens on which I have operated," says Latta, " the dissolution was so complete, that on entering the needle into the cap- sule of the lens the whole was mixed with the aqueous humour, and all that could be done was to destroy the capsule as completely as possible, Wiat all the milky matter might be evacuated. In ton of tiiesc cases vision was almost comijletely restored in four weeks from the operation." Mr. Pott, ni trcatmg of this circumstance, viz. the efil sion of the fluid contents of the capsule into tl: aqueous humour, observes, that so far from beii: '''"'^ Pr-^ventive of success, it proves, on the contrary, productive of all the bene- fit which can be derived from the most successful depression or extraction, as he has often and often seen. When the cataract is of a soft or caseous descrip- tion, the particles of which it is composed will fre- quently elude all eflforts made with the needle to depress them, and will continue behind the pupil in the axis of vision. This has been adduced as one instance that baflles the efiicacy of couching and may really seem, to the inexperienced, an un- fortunate circumstance. It often happens in the operation of extraction that fragments of opaque matter are unavoidably overlooked and left behind; yet such matter is Irequently removed by the ab- sorbents. Supposing a caseous cataract were not sufficiently broken and disturbed in the first opera- tion, and that, consequently, the absorbents did not completely remove it, such a state might possibly require a re-application of the instrument; but this does not generally occur, and is the worst that can happen. It is quite impossible to determine a priori, what efi'ect will result from the most trivial disturb- ance of a cataract; its entire absorption may, in some instances, follow, while in others a repetition of the operation becomes necessary for the restoration of sight. Even where the whole firm lens has re- ascended behind the pupil, as Latta and Hey con- firm, the absorbents have superseded the necessity for couching again. The disappearance of the opaque particles of cataracts was, in all times and all ages, a fact of such conspicuousness, that, as ap- pears from the authority of Barbette and others, it was recorded even previously to the discoveiy of the system of lymphatic vessels in the body. In- deed, the observation of Scarpa and others so strongly corroborate the account which I have given of the vigorous action of the absorbents in the two chambers of the aqueous humom-, and particularly in the anterior one, that from the moment the case is discovered to be a soft or caseous cataract, it seems quite unnecessary to make any further attempt to depress it into the vitreous hu- mour. One great advantage of couching, insisted upon by Scarpa, depends upon its generally removing the capsule, at the same time with the lens, from the passage of the rays of light to tlie retina. Sometimes, however, this desirable event, by which the patient is extricated from the danger of a secondary memlranoiis cataract, does not take place. What most frequently constitutes the se- condary membranous cataract,'is the anterior half of the capsule, which not having been removed, or sufliciently broken, in a previous operation, continues more or less entire in its natural situa- tion, afterwards becomes opaque, and thus impedes the free transmission of the rays of light to the seat of vision. Sometimes the secondary mem- branous cataract presents itself beyond the pupil, in the form of membranous flakes, apparently floating in the aqueous humour, and shutting up the pupil: at other times, it appears in the I'orm of triangular membranes, with their bases affixed to the mcmhraiia Jiyaloidca, and their points di- rected towards the centre of the pupil. When there is only a minute membranous flake suspended