421 CATARACT. the capsule is opaque only in some places, he states that the following circumstances may be noticed : — The cataract lies close to the uvea, and when the patient inclines his head forwards the cataract presses the iris towards the cornea, and the anterior chamber becomes evidently smaller; but Avhen he lies upon his back, the cataract recedes in some degree from the uvea. The power of dis- tinguishing the light is unequivocal. When the head is kept quiet for a long time, a thick sediment and a thinner part can be plainly remarked in the cataract ; during which state, that is, while the two substances are undisturbed, the patient can sometimes distinguish large well-lighted objects as through a dense mist; but -i^-hen the head or eye is quickly moved, these two substances become confused together again, and the cataract again presents an imiform white colour. Sometimes the opaque lens is of a middling consistence, neither hard nor fluid, but about as consistent as thick jelly, curds, or new cheese. Cases of this description are termed soft or caseous cataracts. The consistence here spoken of may be confined to the two surfaces of the lens, or mny exist in its very centre. The first case is the most frequent. The diagnosis is not difficult ; for it always has a light grey, greyish-white, or sea-green colour. AVhen it is far advanced, it quite impedes the eyesight, and sometimes considerably interferes with the perception of light. As the lens softens in this manner it commonly grows thicker and larger, even acqiriring a much greater size than the fluid. The motions of the ins are very sluggish. Indeed, it is sometimes requisite to use belladonna, in order to ascertain that no adhesions exist between the uvea and the cataract, for in sucli cases the posterior chamber is very often completely abolished, and tlie black ring at the edge of the pupil is not at all owing to the shadow of the iris, but entirely to the dark border of the iris at the margin of that opening. According to Mr. Travers, the caseous cataract has a heavy dense appearance, uiiiformlj' opaque, a clouded, not a fleecy, whiteness, and sometimes a greenish or dirty white tinge. {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iv. p. 28.').) It is observed that cataracts are never hard in the young, and that a hard lens is never met with below the age of puberty. Cataracts are not always hard in old persons: we may have soft cataracts in the old, and hard ones in the middle period of life. (See Laiorence, op. cit. p. 410.) I lately attended, with Mr. Alexander, •ind Mr. Bainbridge of Tooting, a young woman eighteen years of age, from whom Mr. Alexander extracted a lens which was as firm as cartilage. The case was one of congenital cataract. In estimating the consistence of cataracts, per- haps their size is a better criterion of it than their colour ; and " the larger and more protuberant the lens, pressing forwards into the pupil and against the iris, the greater is the certainty of its being soft." (See Guthrie s Operative Sarr/crt/ of the Eye, p. 20.').) In simple Cataract, the colour of the opacity is grey, yellowish-grey, greyish or darkish-brown, milky, or chalkj--white, and some- times pearly, or silvery. In young persons, the cataract is almost invariably white or grey, or of a milky, or bluish white tint. When a brownish, or yellowish state of the Ions is seen in a young person, it may almost certainly bo ascribed to in- ternal disease of the eye (p. 407). The inves- tigations of Dr. Mackenzie have taught him that " whiteness denotes either a dissolved lens, or a capsular cataract; greyness, a lenticular cataract; amber, or dark grej', that the cataract is hard ; light grej', that it is soft. If the whole extent of the pupil is uniformly opaque, the cataract is pro- bably lenticular ; if the opacity is streaked or speckled, it is probably capsular. If the opaque streaks radiate from a centre, the posterior hemi- sphere of the capsule is probably the seat of the disease. If the form of the opacity is convex, the anterior hemisphere of the capsule is the part af- fected ; if concave, the posterior hemisphere. With the light concentrated on the pupil by means of a double convex glass, all these particulars arc to be carefully investigated." (fin Dis. of tlie Eye, p. 675, ed. 2.) [For a clear and concise account of the true mature cataract, see Dixon's Guide to Dis. of the Eye, p. 197.] A cataract, which is recent, and has originated suddenly, especially in young subjects, requires much more circumspection ere an operation is de- termined npon than a cataract which has already existed a long while, and the formation of which has been only gradual, particularly in an old sub- ject ; for the first case is more frequently owing to a concealed slow kind of inflammation than is generally supposed. {Beer, vol. cit. p. 314.) Formerly cataracts were denominated mature, and immature; terms which, previously to tlie time of Mr. Pott, who fully exposed their impro- priety, often led to the erroneous supposition that every cataract must acquire an increase of con- sistence with time, a hardness indicated by a pearly colour, and be thereby rendered more fi't to be depressed or extracted. "This opinion (as Mr. Guthrie has observed) founded on the liard- ness or softness of the cataract, as dependent upon its duration, is contradicted by experience ; for cataracts of fifteen or twenty years' duration, and of a pearly colour, have been extracted perfectly soft, whilst others of one year's standing, and of a milky colour, have been found hard. Neither is the relative state of blindness, under these parti- cular circumstances, a more just criterion; patients having been found almost entirely blind with a soft cataract, whilst, through a hard one, they could still distinguish objects and colours." (Opcraiivo Surgery of the Eye, p. 190.) If, however, the term mature be used, as denoting the full develop- ment of the cataract, previously to which stage an operation should not be undertaken, the phrase is not destitute of foundation. (See Laxorencc op. cit. p. 408.) ' Another division of cataracts is into simplclocal and complicated. A simple local cataract is so denominated by Beer when the patient is in every other respect perfectly healthy, mid no disease prevails in any other part, however distant from the eye. Amongst the locally complicated cases is the ad- hcrc7it cataract. The preterniituial cohesion may be of the anterior layer of the capsule with the uvea, produced by ellimed lymph ; it mny consist in a very firm connection of the posterior layer of the capsule with the mcmbrana hyaloidca • or it may be an unusually dose cohesion of the' whole of the capsule with the lens ; or, says Beer all the three species of adhesion mav exist to"cthcr (p. 318). K E 3