<t50 CAUi medicament, and tlie severity of the pain attendant on its application, the employment of arsenious acid ought to be restricted to small superficial affections ; as, for example, cancer of the skin, epithelioma, and obotinate ulcers which some- times occur at the roots of the nails. In some cases it may be advisable to use it after the abla- tion of circumscribed adventitious growths by the knife, in order to ensure complete removal of the disease. It ought never, however, to be applied before the third day after the operation, and when suppuration is established. Hydrate of potash rapidly and completely destroys the vitality of the soft organised textures, inducing a kind of moist gangrene. From its liquescency it is advantageously resorted to in cases of malignant pustule. Here it was employed by Dupuytren in the form of troches. It is em- ployed for the cure of scrofulous ulcers of a torpid character, where the surrounding integuments arc undermined ; in chancre, where the obstinacy of the sore is excessive ; in poisoned wounds, in virtue of its extending its action to a considerable depth beneatli the surface. Mr. Mayo proposed its use for the ciu'e of varix, an eschar being made with the caustic over the vein at a sound part of its course, in order to excite such inflammation of the vessel as might suffice to occasion obliteration of its cavity by the effusion of lymph. The practice, however, is not exempt from danger, and has been followed by alarming inflammation. Mr. Wardrop advocated its employment in naevus. It is also employed for opening abscesses. The most exact way of manipulating the potash is to fit the fused cylinder within a glass tube, and by means of a probe passed up from the opposite end to keep it in contact with the integument or morbid surface. The slimy shreds are wiped away with a soft rag, and after enough caustic has been expended, the part is covered with an emollient poultice. Hydrate of potash is generally preferred for forming issues ; and the most convenient mode of employing it for that purpose is to apply to the skin a piece of linen, spread with adhesive plaster, having a circular opening in its centre corresponding to the intended size of the issue, and then to rub upon the skin within the opening a piece of the caustic, previously moistened at one end. The application is to be continued till the life of the part is destroyed, when the caustic should be care- fully washed off. Poultices are afterwards to be applied till the separation of the eschar is effected. As a general rule in using this caustic, owing to its •diffluent tendency, the erosion of the sound integument ought to occupy a narrower compass than that of tlie eschar about to be formed. To obviate the inconvenience arising from the too rapid liquefaction of the potash, it has been found expedient to mix it with quicklime. A compound of this kind, the so-called Vienna caustic, consists of five parts of hydrate of potash, and six parts of quicklime.. The mixture is kept in a well stoppered phial ; when intended for use, it is made into a paste with a few drops of spirit of wine or water. In this state it determines a speedy disorganisation of the part, which is afterwards to be washed with water and vinegar. If an energetic effect is required, it may be allowed to remain on for twenty minutes, The pain, though lively, is not intense, and does not lust more than half an hour. The administration of an ancesthetic agent enables the surgeon to apply efficiently these powerful escharotics. M. Velpeau considers it the best form of caustic for the destruction of a non- ulcerated malignant tumor of little thickness. It is to be surrounded with a border of diachylon plaster, and left in contact with the part for ten minutes. When the tumor is thicker, or larger and nodulated, the preference should be given to the zinc paste, be the skin ulcerated or not {Lib. cit. p. 560). It deserves notice, that all caustics having potash for their base, are prone to occasion sanguineous exudation, and to provoke considerable reaction in the surrounding parts. Ilydraie of soda. As an efficient substitute for the potash, I have for several years past been in the habit of using hydrate of soda. It is equally energetic as a caustic, and has not the same ten- dency to run. Tlie resulting carbonate, on exposure to the air, is of an efflorescent nature, while that of potash, on the contrary, rapidly absorbs moisture. It may be had in fused cylinders. QuioJdime mixed with soap is an old-fashioned escharotic. Three parts by weight of quicklime, and two parts of dry soap, reduced both to powder, are to be intimately mixed. This is to be formed into a paste by the addition of spirit of wine, and a layer of variable thickness, according to the in- tended effect, is to be applied to the part which is to be cauterised. It determines a sense of smoul- dering heat, and a smeary decomposition of the tissues. It is less prone to cause htemorrhage than caustic potash. I succeeded, by a compound of this nature, in destro}'ing a cancer of the female manmia ; in this case the patient enjoyed immunity from the disease for a period of seven years. Nitrate, of silver is in more extensive use than any other caustic. On a granulating surface it produces a whitish film, but if applied more freel)-, a kind of mummy-like transformation of the soft parts, resembling senile gangrene. Its operation is comparatively superficial, and the resulting eschar does not separate for several days, owing to the slight amount of reaction in the adjacent textures. It exercises a salutary alterative and stimulant effect when applied to foul and mihealthj'- ulcers, and serves also to repress exuberant granulation. It is a useful application to fistulous sores, and to fissures and excoriations .at the outlets of passages lined with mucous membrane. It has been em- ployed with advantage in some cases of irritable stricture of the urethra, producing, under such cir- cumstances, a marked sedative elTect. A cylinder of lunar caustic, moistened with water, and freely applied over an inflamed bubo, frequently promotes the absorption of the effused serous exudation and the dispersion of the swelling ; to the surf.ice of the eyelid in scrofulous ophthalmia with ulcerated cornea, it abates the intolerance of light, the morbid vascularity of the conjunctival vessels, and accele- rates the cicatrisation of the ulcer; applied in the same manner round the confines of an erysipelatous surface, it frequently limits the spread of the cutaneous inflammation; passed along the outer surface of the urethra, so as to produce vesication, it has afforded relief in severe cases of spasmodic stricture ; lightly applied to burns and scalds it allays pain and favours healing. Its employment is indicated in punctured aTid jmrticularly poisoned wounds; here a saturated solutionis generally pre- ferable to the solid cnustic. Chloride of xine has in a great measure super-