20-1 ANUS. surface, Annissat advised tliat the edge of the mu- ] inch from tlie ycrge of the anus Dill H'V-i-5 . . coiis membrane should he drawn down and stitched 1 to the edges of the opening in the integument. As Mr. Erichsen remarks, however, this vcr}' desirable snggcstion can only he carried into effect when the intestine terminates at a short distance from the surface. If the perineal incision \yere two or three inches in depth, there would he little probability of the surgeon being able to bring down the intestine to such an extent. In a case in which he attempted to do so, he found the gut too firmly fixed to be moved by any traction that it would have been safe to have employed. (See Erichsen, Science and Alio/ Surgery, p. 7.90.)] The probability of success in these cases may be considered as, in some measure, proportioned to the depth of the necessary incision. An infant was brought to University College Ilospital with an imperforate anus; Mr. Listen, after carrying the incisions to the depth of three inches, made a small opening intn the intestinal canal, as indicated by the discharge of fetid gas, and a small quantity of meconium. A piece of bougie was introduced to maintain the opening; but the child died in a very short time, and there was no opportunity of ascertaining the state of the parts. In a case -like that recorded by Dr. Palmer, to which I have above adverted, the inutility of any attempt to dis- charge the fjEces by an operation, in the usual site of the anus, must be sufficiently obvious. {Mediao- C/iir. Journ. vol. i. p. 181.) Sometimes, while the anus appears pervious and well-formed, the infant suffers the same symptoms as if there were no anus at all. The reason of this depends upon the intestine being occasionally closed by a membranous partition, situated more or less upward, above the aperture of the anus. This case is in fact an imperforate rectum, rather than an imperforate anus. {Courtial, Noitvellcs Obs. sur les Os, p. 147; John Wayte, in Edin. Med. and Sur- gical Journ. April, 1821; and Casesin Hutchison's Obs. in Surgery, ed. 2.) j [Dr. Bushe mentions a case in which he tound Uvo partitions, one about half an inch from_ the anus, and the other three-quarters of an inch higher up. {On Bis. of ihe Rectum, p. 40.)] Sometimes the symptoms are owing not srniply to an interruption of the cavity of the intestine, but even of its parietes; and thus the colon may be separated entirely from the rectum. {Andral. Prk'is, d'Anat. Pathol, t. ii. p. 143.) Such erro- neous formations may be suspected, when an mlant, whose anus is externally open, does not void any excrement for two or three days after its birth, and especially when urgent symptoms arise, such as swelling of the belly, vomiting, &c. We are now to endeavour to ascertain, whether the rectum is impervious above the anus, by attempting to inject glysters, or introducing a probe. If the gut be shut up, there is nothing to be done but havnig recourse to the method described above, and lorui- ing a communication by means of a bistoury guided on the linger, or else with a pharyngotomus. If the obstacle should only consist of a transverse mem- brane, the operation will be easy, and its success highly probable; but if there should be an internal obstruction of the intestinal canal, from total defi- ciency ef some part of its pavietus, the case is infinitely more serious. In the case recorded by Mr. AV.iyte, tlie mem- branous septum was felt by the finger, about an „„ „ —o- - I' was pierced with a pointed probe, which was followed by a hydrocele trocar, and afterwards by a bougie of larger dimensions. On withdrawing the latter much meconium, mixed with fteces, escaped, and continued to be frequently discharged. In a week, however, the opening closed, and a fresh puncture was made, which was maintained by the frequent introduction of bougies. The child proceeded tolerably well until the end of another week, when the passage was again much contracted, and the abdomen proportionably distended. On the twentieth day from birth, a full-sized trocar was used for restoring the opening, which, however, again had a tendency to close, but was afterwards dilated by introducing, twice a day, bougies, which were in- creased in size, until a rectum bougie of middling size could be passed. Tlie boy now rapidly im- proved, and every hope of perfect recovery was entertained, but disease of the os coccygis ensued; and at the end of six months, the little patient died hectic. (See Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. .xvii.) When the anus is imperforate, the intestine sometimes opens into the vagina in the female; or into the bladder, or urethra, in the male ; there being, as Andi-al expresses himself, a tendency in the terminal orifices of the digestive, urinary, and genital organs to be confounded together, and to form a common cavity more or less analogous to •the cloaca of birds. {Precis d'Anat. Pathol t. ii. p. 144; Dumas, in Recueil Ptriodique de la Soc. de Med. t. iii. No. 13 ; Leveille, Rapport dcs iravaux de la Soc. Philom. vol. i. p. 145; Murray Diss. Atresi Ani vesicalis, Ups. 1794; Act. Nat. Cur. vol. viii. Obs. 24; vol. ix. Obs. 11; Rcestel, in Mursinna's Journ. fur die Chir. br. i. p. 547 ; Obs. Med. Decad. ii. No. 2; Velpcau, iVowr. Elem. t. iii. p. 977.) The first case is the least dangerous of such malformations. The intestine may terminate at two places at the same time, viz. at the usual place, so as to form a proper anus, more or less perfect ; and also in the vagina. If the rectum were to terminate at the lower and pos- terior part of the vulva, of which M. Bracliet has lately published an example, the making of a new anus in the proper situation would be unat- tended with difficulty. A director should be passed into the rectum through the opening already existing, and an incision made, under the guidance of this instrument, from the perineum towards the coccyx in the natural situation of the anus, through all the textures covering the extremity of the rectum. A canula is then to be fixed in the bowel, at the poste- rior part of the wound, by which means the front of the incision would have an opportunity of healing, and the freces take their right course. This opera- tion was recommended by Vicq d'Azyr. M. Vcl- peau sees no occasion for the suture advised by M, Martin for the union of the anterior part of the wound, and suggests that sometimes it may be advantageous not to divide the recto-vaginal septum at all, but to pass a blunt curved instrument from the vaginal fistula to the lower end of the bowel, and then make a puncture into tl'e tl'-'ough the skin. (See Velpcau, Nouv. Elem. de Med. Opvr. t. iii. p. 979.) When the two openings are exceedingly sma l, and the f«ces cannot readily pass ^^'^'^'.^'^J^ aid of glysters, the opening of the "j" enlarged with a knife, and kept dilated ^Mth a