705 FRACTURE. denuded hy a wound, the case is (if possible) still more manifest. Fractures of the rami and condyles produce great pain near the ear, particularly when the jaw is moved ; and a crepitus may be felt. Treatment.—^Fractures of the lower jaw, whether simple or double, are easily sot, by pushing the dis- placed part upward, and a little forward, and then pressing on the basis of the bone, so as to bring it ex- actly on a level with the portion which has preserved its natural position. Indeed, the correctness of the reduction may always be rightly judged of by attending to the line which the base of the jaw ought to form, and observing that the arch of the teeth is regular. The maintenance of the reduction, however, is difficult; and can only be well executed by supporting the lower jaw, and keeping it applied to the upper one. As the latter indication cannot be properly fulfilled in persons whose teeth are very irregular, it is sometimes necessary to interpose an even piece of cork between the teeth on each side of the mouth, and against this cork the lower jaw is to be kept up with the bandage presently no ticed, while the aperture left between the incisor teeth in the situation where no cork is placed, allows food and medicines to be introduced with a small spoon. When the bone is fractured in two places, one on each side of the symphysis, and great difficulty is experienced in keeping the central fragment from being drawn downwards and backwards towards the OS hyoides by the depression of the lower jaw, the instruments proposed by Graefe, Lonsdale, and others, will fix the bone and prevent the displace- ment. The apparatus consists of a groove, for the reception of the arch of the teeth, and of a square plate of steel, which is placed under the chin, and admits of being screwed up to the part. On this plate a piece of cork or a compress is put. [Some surgeons recommend fixing the teeth together with a ligature or a piece of silver or gold wire twisted around them, and this may be of service in maintaining the fractured surfaces in contact, but will not be sufficient unless a bandage or some other apparatus be also employed.] As soon as the fracture is set the surgeon should adapt some thick pasteboard or gutta-percha, pre- viously wetted and softened, to the outside of the jaw, both along its side and under its basis. Over tills moistened pasteboard a bandage with four tails is to be applied, the centre being placed on the patient's chin, while the two posterior tails are to be pinned over the forehead, and the two .mterior ones over tlie occiput. When the paste- board becomes dry, it forms the most convenient apparatus imaginable for surrounding and support- ing tlie fracture. A piece of soap-plaster may now be applied to the skin underneath, which will pre- vent any ill effects of the hardness and pressure of the pasteboard. Until the bone is firmly united, the patient should be allowed only such food as docs not re- quire mastication, and it may be given by means of a small tpoon, introduced between the teeth. Broths, soups, jellies, tea, and other slops appear most eligible. In order to keep the middle portion of tlie bono from being drawn downwards and backwards towards tlie larynx, it is frequently necessary to apply tolerably thick compresses just under and behind the chin ; which are to be well supported by the bandage already described. I need hardly state the necessity of enjoining the patient to avoid talking, or moving the jaw more than can be avoided. He should also be advised to lie on his back at night, as the pressure of either side of the face upon the pillow will be likely to pro- duce displacement. [In a case which was under the care of the writer in St. Mary's Hospital, and in which every attempt to remedy the displacement had failed, an apparatus was devised by Mr. H. Hayward, the dentist, which answered the purpose admirably. It consisted of a silver cap made to fit the teeth and gums accurately, and to enclose several teeth on each side of the fracture, a wax cast having been first taken of the parts, and the silver plate having been moulded from it. A piece of gutta-percha was placed under the chin, and was held in its place by being tied on each side with string to two curved bars of silver, which were fixed to the plate inside, and which passed out at the angles of the mouth. By this means the most accurate contact was maintained, and the patient was able to speak and eat without pain and with- out any risk of disturbing the fracture. The transition from a state of extreme pain and dis- comfort to one of almost perfect ease as soon as this instrument was applied, was most remarkable. (Further particulars will be found in the Britisli Med. Journ. Oct. 9, 1858, p. 845.)] When the condyle is fractured, as it is inces- santly drawn forward by the action of the ptery- goideus externus, and, on account of its desp situation, cannot be pressed back, the neck must, if possible, be pushed towards it. For this purpose the bandage must be made to operate particularly on the angle of the jaw, where a thiclc compress should be placed. [There is some fear, however, notwithstanding every precaution, that the mouth may remain permanently turned toward the in- jured side.] Compound fractures of the lower jaw are to be treated on the same principles as similar injuries of other bones. If possible, the external wound should be healed by the first intention ; and when this attempt fails, care must be taken to keep the wound clean by changing the dressings about once in three daj'S ; but not oftener, lest the fracture sufier too much disturbance, Compound fractures of the jaw, and even simple ones, which are fol- lowed by abscesses, are liable to be succeeded by necrosis and exfoliations. It now and then happens that fractures of the lower jaw continue ununited ; Dr. Physick's suc- cessful treatment of one s*ich case with aseton, and Dupuy tren's by sawing off the end of one fragment, I have already noticed. Fractures of the coronoid process are stated not to admit of bony union. Fractures op the VKRTEnn.^j. On account of the shortness and thickness of these bones, they cannot be broken without con- siderable viulcnce. The si)inoiis processes, whicli project backwards, are most exposed to sucli in- juiy; f(ir they are the weaker parts of the vertebra; and most superficially situated. On this accouiu it is possible for them to be broken witliinit any mischief being done to the spinal cord. The vio- lence which is great enough to break the bodies of tlie vertebra;, must produce more or less concussion Z Z '