WOUNDS- GUNSHOT Wounds and injuries of the liver from blows or musket balls are very serious ; when inflicted by grape, shell, or round shot, they generally soon ^f°^\ n ^ from haemorrhage'; when the result ot a bullet, they are very generally unsuccessful, from the severe inflammation of the lining membrane of the cavity ensuing upon the injury. The symptoms are those of peritonitis super- added to those peculiar to the organ, viz. discolor- ation of the skin and urine, amounting to jaundice in some instances, pain in the shoulder and cramps; the discharge from the wound is either blood or bile, sometimes it is glutinous and tinged with bile, at other times it is serous or purulent. Wounds of the gall-bladder are nearly always mortal, from the effusion of bile into the peritoneal cavity giving rise to fatal inflammation. Recorded cases of re- covery after this injury are rare. Gunshot wounds of the kidney are scarcely less dangerous than those of the spleen. They are characterised by great pain in the lumbar region, bloody urine, retraction of the testicle, nausea and vomiting. Foreign bodies lodging in it may afterwards be expelled by the urethra. A very interesting case of this kind is narrated by Mr. Guthrie, attended, however, with great suffering. (Commentaries, edit. 6, p. 592—3.) The patient eventually recovered.] In the article Wounds, I have detailed at large the general principles, which should be observed in the treatment of wounds of the belly; conse- quently it would be superfluous here to go over the whole of this extensive subject. As an excellent practical writer observes, " In their treatment, the Tiolence of symptoms is to be combated more by general means, than by any of the mechanical aids of surger3% The search for extraneous bodies, unless superficially situated, is altogether out of the question, except they can be felt with the probe, as in Ravaton's case {CIdr. d'Armee, p. 211). Enlargement or contraction of the original wound, as the case may require, for returning the pro- truded intestine, securing the intestine itself, and promoting the adhesion of the parts, are all that the surgeon has to do in the way of operation ; and, even in this, the less he interferes the better. Nature makes wonderful exertions to relieve every injury inflicted upon her, and they are often sur- pnsingly successful, if not injudiciously interfered with. In a penetrating wound of the abdomen, whether by a gunshot, or by a cutting instrument, if no protrusion of intestine take place (and this, it must be observed, in musket or pistol wounds rarely occurs), the lancet, with its powerful con- comitants, abstinence and rest, particularly in the supine posture, are our chief dependence. Great pam and tension, which usually accompany these wounds, must be relieved by leeches to tlie abdo- men (if tlioy can be procured), by topical applica- tions of fomentations, and the warm bath ; and, if any internal medicine is given, as a purgative, it must, for obvious reasons, bo of the mildest nature. The removal of the ingesta, as a source of irrita- tion, is best effected, by frequently repeated olea- gmous clysters" (see He/men's Principles of Mili- larySuryenj, p. 431, ed. 3) ; and with respect to dressings, as tlie same author has observed, con- cerning cases in which a ball has passed directly through the abdomen, the mildest application fliiould bo employed, and no plugging witli tents, nor iiuroduction of medicated dressings, thought of (p. 406). In this publication may be found cases, m which musket balls were passed by stool (p. 404) ; in which an artificial anus was formed (p. 407, &c.) ; or the kidneys, liver (p. 430-^ 432), diaphragm (p. 437), and other viscera injured. [Gunshot Injuries op the Pelvic Cavity.] [Wounds of this part of the body so often happen concurrently with injury of the peritoneal cavity, that they are classified and treated of under the head of abdominal injuries, as the danger of such wounds often depends upon this complication. Nevertheless, they sometimes occur alone, and render it necessary that they should be separately considered and described. Those occasioned by musket-bullets, where the soft structures only are concerned without including the osseous walls of this cavity, are not dangerous; but such injuries frequently lead to troublesome consequences, from the lodgment of balls giving rise to fistulous pas- sages; the course of the bullet therefore should be carefully sought for, and if possible, it should be extracted. Injuries of this region, when produced by the larger missiles, such as grape-shot or large fragments of shell, are very severe, and often terminate unfavourably. A case of this kind oc- curred to me in the Crimean campaign, where the gluteus maximus was completely divided through its centre, and the great sciatic nerve severed, by a large portion of shell,—a most ghastly wound it was, attended with great suffering, and terminating fatally. When a bullet lodges near a bone, it sometimes occasions disease of its structure and derangement of the general health ; at other times it becomes so deeply imbedded that it is never discovered, and remains during life. The close contact of a ball to a large nerve is followed by numbness, or even partial paralysis of the lower limb, accompanied with pain on change of weather, and obstinate costiveness. {Hennen, Militanj Sur- gery, ed. 3.) In some cases they give origin to periodical attacks of excruciating agony. When the bones of the pelvis are broken, the injury is very serious, consequent on their deep position, neighbourhood to important structures,and thick covering. Sometimes balls pass through the pelvis and spare both bones and the contained viscera. Dr. Macleod speaks of a case where a bullet entered one sacro-ischiatic notch, and passed out of the other, without doing more mischief than contusing the rectum. The cases of gunshot fractures of the bones of the pelvis which occurred before Sebastopol were usually found to be protracted and tedious, and where a fatal termination took place, it was almost invariably'caused by sinking of the vital powers from long protracted and profuse discharge. Of twent\-- seven cases which came under treatment, fourteen were fatal, and in two similar wounds which oc- curred in officers, both died. The amount ami extent of the fracture, and the degree of displace- ment of the fractured portions, as well as tlic injury to the soft parts, were found to be very im- portant elements in determining tlie prob.'iWo result of such fractures. The strongest parts of the pelvis appeared to offer no adequate rcsisWi"^" to arrest the progress of the ball, and very fre- quently not even to turn it in any npp'c'^'"" ° degree from its course, so different in tin's respect from the old spherical bullet. In the ninj"''''y