, 1,11 indice thus produced may continue for months without severe effects. At tlie same time, com- plete obstruction to the passage of bile tends, as already stated, to disorganise the hepatic cells, and thereby prevent secretion and depuration, and may produce all the risks of a primary biliary state of the blood. (_Di: T. Williams' Gmfs Hospital Repoits, 1843.) The causes of a biliary state of the blood are e-ttremely numerous. Whether the materials of bile be derived from the disintegrating blood corpuscles or from the tissues, as taught by some physiologists, or from other sources, this diseased condition may be produced by some deep-seated interruption to the catalytic changes which those materials must undergo in the blood, in prepai'ing them for secretion as bile. Cholajmia is liable to occur in individuals who lead a sedentary life and those who are subject to high ranges of tempera- ture, as in cooks, bakers, and persons residing in the tropics ; also in persons who take too full a diet of fatty and other hydrocarbonaceous sub- stances. It occurs also in biliary and malignant fevers, in diseases resulting from malaria, and in the diseases produced by various poisons, and particularly by the bites of venomous animals. In all these cases it may occur without any mechanical obstruction. It results also from diseases of the liver and biliary apparatus, and particularly as a consequence of gall stones, and in diseases of the neighbouring parts producing obstruction of the gall ducts. In surgical practice it is most fre- quently met with in individuals addicted to the abuse of intoxicating liquors, or to venereal excesses, and in those who have been subjected to mercurial courses ; it frequently accompanies acute or chronic inflammation of the liver, leading to abscess, and occurs on the retrocession of discharges and eruptions; and it sometimes takes place sud- denly as the result of fright, rage, or other mental or moral emotions, and from the shock of operations. The results of cholsemia depend not only upon the cause which has produced it, upon the actual condition of the skin and kidneys at the time, upon the continuance of the liver to perform its function in part, and upon the more or less sudden CHOROIDITIS. -157 tainly aggravates the course of diffuse cellular in- flammation and pyotemia. It may lay the foun- dation for hepatic inflammation and abscess after injuries and operations, and for cerebral and other visceral complications. Hence the necessity of preparing biliary patients for operations, and of attending to the state of the biliary secretion and the blood throughout the course of all surgical cases. Where the symptoms of chotemia exist, the diet should be restricted, and hydrocarbon- aceous food and potations withdra\vn, or diminished. The action of the kidneys should be very carefully looked to, and diuretics and other remedies em- ployed where necessary to promote their func- tions. Cholologue purgatives and diaphoretics are also indicated, by which the hepatic ducts and blood vessels may be cleared and the liver and skin excited to an increase in their depurating functions. In the slighter and more chronic cases a course of blue pill or of the compound calomel pill, more or less prolonged, is often completely successful; and taraxicum and the nitro-hydrochloric acid are most useful remedies when appropriately administered. Operations are not generally undertaken in a jaundiced condition. {Jaundice is treated of in full by medical lunlers ; a very complete article, tuitli copious hibliograpldcal references, ivill he found in Copland's Medical Dictionary.)'^ Henry Ancell. [CHOROIDITIS. Injlammation of tlie choroid coat of the eye.] Mr. Dixon, when speaking of this affection (Diseases of the Eye, p. 120, 1855), re- marks :—" I believe we have at present no means of satisfactorily answering the question," (as to which are the symptoms of choroiditis,) " nor do I think we in any way advance the science of ophthal- mology by assigning a name to a morbid condition, the existence of which cannot be demonstrated. No one who has examined a well-injected prepa- ration of the choroid, and has seen how it is, for the most part, made up of a mass of blood vessels, can need to be told that such a tissue in the living body must be peculiarly liable to inflammation." (See article Ophthalmoscope.) " Indeed, we night take it for granted, that in inflammation attacking the whole eyeball, it would be in the choroid that the chief inflammatory changes would take place. We may feel assured, too, that in the and complete invasion of the morbid condition, but ^ , . r, . . also upon the particular stage at which the series severer forms of intis the inflammation is by no of metamorphoses of biliary matter in the blood means limited to the tissue from which the disease may have been arrested, and probably upon the production of poisonous compounds in some stage of its progress. Biliary materials are also often met with in the blood in connection with a state of active hyperinosis, marked by an ex cess of fibrin and a deficiency of red corpuscles Whether the inflammatory state of the blood is produced by the biliary particles, or the excess of these by the increased destruction of the red corpuscles in excited states of the blood, may be uncertain, but either of these pathological results may occur. Even in an impoverished state of the blood the effects are often similar, but slighter in degree. . . It is important in surgical practice to scrutinise rery closely the state of the blood as to its bili- ary constituents. Choliemia predisposes to many diseases. This is so niucii the case as respects erysipelas tliat you have a distinct variety de- scribed as biliary. (See Eiiy8Ipei,as.) It pre- disposes also to rheumatism and to the gouty paroxysm. It probably predisposes to and cer- derives its name, but that the connection subsist- ing between the vessels of the iris and those of the choroid will involve both structures in the morbid process." Mr. Bowman (Lectures, <^'c., ip. iS, 1849), ob- serves:—" The capillaries form on the inner surface of the choroid, a plain plexus, with close meshes, known as the tunica Ruyshiana. This network is closer, i.e. its meshes are smaller in the hinder part tlian in front, and the vessels finer. It is the most important part of the choroid, because the capillaries are a more important structure than either arteries or veins—more important, I mean, in regard to the function of the membrane, and also as respects its diseases. In no other part of the body are the arteries and veins so separated, by a natural disposition from their own capillaries; and it is most interesting to notice, in accordance with this circumstance, that when the choroid ia inflamed, so that inflammatory products result, they are poured out from its inner surface rather than from its outer."