268 ANUS free from a dull kind of uneasiness, especiallj' if he sits for any considerable Icngtli of time iu one posture. {Poii, op. cit. p. 90.) Treatment of Fistula The methods of cure proposed and practised by our ancestors were three : yiz, caustic, ligature, and incision. The intention in each of these is the same: viz to form one cavity of the sinus and intestine, by laying the former into the latter. The two first are now completely, and most properly, exploded. For the treatment by incision, " the curved probe-pointed knife, with a narrow blade, is the most useful and handy instrument of an}^ ^ This, introduced into the sinus, while the surgeon's fore- finger is in the intestine, will enable him to divide all that can ever require division ; and that witli less pain to the patient, with more facility to the operator, as well as with more certainty and expe- dition, than any other instrument whatever. If there be no opening in the intestine, the smallest degree of force will thrust the point of the knife through, and thereby make one ; if there be one already, the same point will pass through it. In either case it will be received by the finger in ano, will thereby be prevented from deviating ; and being brought out by the same finger, must neces- sarily divide all that is between the edge of the knife and the verge of the anus." {Pot(, op. cit. p. 39.) , , . J Besides the operation with the probe-pomted bistoury, as described by Pott, surgeons often practise another with a silver director and sharp- pointed bistoury. The director is introduced into the sinus, and then into the rectum, either through the internal opening, if one already exists, or by making it gradually penetrate through the coats of the bowel if no internal opening can be dis- covered. Then the director is to be bent, so as to make one extremity of it project through the anus; and the soft parts which lie over it divided, by passing the sharp-pointed bistoury along its groove. (See Brodie, in Lo?id. Med. Gaz. for 1835 36, p. 184.) When there are several sinuses, and any of them are left undivided, the operation will probably not bring about a cure ; hence the common maxim, that every sinus must be outwards, divide the sphincter muscle, and set that completely at liberty. This is better than merely laying open the sinus into the gut, where you cannot find the internal orifice ; but it is not so good as the operation where you can find it, because you have more bleeding, you give your patient more pain, and there is a larger wound to heal. (See La?icet, vol. i. 1843—44, p. 662.)] The following remarks by Sir Benjamin Brodie deserve to be remembered :—" The advantage of the division of the sphincter is not merely theoretical. There are few cases, in which it will not greatly facilitate the ultimate cure, pre venting the burrowing of matter, and the formation of fresh sinuses, and rendering the subsequent dressings more easy to the surgeon, and less painful to the patient. It is, however, to the more com- plicated cases of fistute that the division of the sphincter is especially applicable; as, for example, where the sinus is of imusual extent, or where there are several sinuses, or where you are not certain that you have been able to detect the whole of them, or where the neighbouring parts are ex- tensively indurated. It is quite a mistake to sup- pose, that there is any well-founded objection to even the most free division of the sphincter ; even in the first instance it scarcely interferes with the retention of the feeces, except they are actually liquid • and the muscle never fails to become per- fectly united, and afterwards perform its functions as well as ever. Nor have I ever kno\vn any hffimorrhage arise,which was not readily commanded by a dossil of lint introduced into the wound, and the pressure of the finger continued for a short space of time. If there be any considerable bleeding vessel, it is not difficult to seciue it with the tena- culum and ligature ; but this is seldom necessary (Lo?id. Med. Gaz. 1835—6, p. 184.) [At St. Mark's Hospital for Fistula, &c., Mr. Salmon practises this free division of the sphincter in all cases, believing that it more eftectually pre- vents any lodgment of matter, and thus renders tlie success of the operation a much greater cer- '^'The' treatment of Uind internal fisliila is to be conducted on the same principle as that of a blind external one ; that is, it must be ° complete fistula, and then be laid freely open into the bowel. If the situation of the cavity is distin- common ould h. induded m the mcmm. ? i™.l,%vidc«t, it may b. ™»de s« by .ho should uu jiiuiuuviv. ... —- attaches great importance to this, and lie UunKs, that "in complete fistulce the most extensive in- cisions will fail to afl:ord permanent rebel unless they include the internal opening;" and " that the repetition of operations for this disease, which are so frequently heard of in practice, are, with low exceptions, referable to this mistake." {On Dis. of the Rectum, ed. 3, p. 38.) Sir B. Brodie also says, " if you make an artificial opening, and tail to find the real original opening, in three cases out ot four you will be plagued afterwards. You have made an artificial opening, but the original one remains, and ynu go on dressing the sore, but there is a little infiltration of fneccs and mucus into it that prevents it being healed. When you have made an artificial opening in the way I liavo stated, I advise you to do something more. Having made the artificial ojiening, and laid the fistula open into tho gut, take a straight probe-pointed bistoury, in- troduce it into the rectum, turn its cutting edge an incision unuugit ....^ - ■ i3 not sufiiciently evident, it may be made so by the introduction of a bent probe from the rectum through the internal orifice of the fistula ; the point of tho probe being made to project towards the integument, can then be cut down upon fromfl '''The real dilTerence, therefore as Mr. Pott ob-- served, "between this kind of case and that m« which'there is an external opening (with regard ^^^^ method of cure), is very '/^^t/jJ^.' ternal opening must be made, and then all diilcr ^ eaLs. ^n this, as in the former, no cure c^ reasonably be expected, until the cavity of the absce s and that of the rectum are made one ; and the only ditTerence is, that in the one case we ha c S^^Se at or near the verge of the anus, ^ whid we arc immediately enabled to P-^''^"™ jj^^;;;',"'. sary operation; in the other, wc must make one. ^Xmedttefy after the operation, a soft dossil o