AMPUTATION. 04 J. Bell, that the flow of blood through n large artery could not be completely stopped by pres- sure ; and the late Mr. Hey adopted a similar no- tion, in consequence of seeing a case in wiiich the application of two tourniquets to the thigh did not restrain the hemorrhage from a fungus hasmatodes of the limb. He says, the pressure of the tour- niquet does not completelj' obstruct the passage of blood in the arteries ; it only diminishes so much of the force of the current as to enable the vessels, in a sound state, to exert their natural contractive power so effectually as to prevent hemorrhage. (See Hey's Pract. Ob. p. 257, 258, ed. 2.) Of the inaccuracy of this doctrine no man can doubt who sees the femoral artery with its open mouth on the face of a stump, not bleeding while the tourniquet is tight, or skilful pressure is kept up, but tlirowing out its blood to a great distance the instant the pressure is discontinued. Nor, I ap- prehend, can any surgeon, who has amputated at the shoulder, and seen how completely pressure commands the flow of blood through the open- mouthed axillary artery, join in the sentiment of John Bell and Hey upon this particular point. Mr. Listen confirms the preceding statement, observing that pressure complete enough not only to stop the pulsation of an artery in a limb, but also to arrest completely the flow of blood, can be easily applied by means of the fingers only : and, in order to prove the correctness of this re- mark, he has repeatedly, when no proper assistant was at hand, compressed both the femoral and humeral arteries with the fingers of one hand, whilst, with the other hand, he renioved the limb ; and this, as he affirms, with the loss of much less blood than if he had followed the ordinary mode. His common practice is to lot the pressure be made by an assistant ; and in one place, he de- clares, that he would rather trust to no very effi- cient assistant than put on a tourniquet. The ease with which the flow of blood through the largest arteries is commanded by manual pressure, is a fact likewise attested by Dupuytren, who only employed the instrument, which he terms the compressor, in a few special cases. (See Logons Orales, cjc t. iv. p. 377; Elements, part iii. p. 361; and Ed. Med. and Surg. Jour. vol. xx. p. 44.) The following passage explains Mr. Listen's views of this subject : " In all cases, and in all situations and circumstances, hemorrhage can be restrained during the completion of the incisions, and during the employment of means to close the cut ends of the vessels, by means of very slight, but exact pres- sure on the trunk of the principal vessel. (See also DupiLi/tren, Lefons Orales de Clinicjue Chir. t. iv. p. 382.) The point at luldch this should be applied should be at as short a disiance as possible above the place of the incision, and at the same time above the origin of any branches which must be cut. Not the slightest pressure should be made until the instant when the incisions are about to be commenced, so that no venous congestion may take place in the limb. All the blood in the limb below the incisions must necessarily be lost. The veins are more easily compresecd than the arteries; and pressure made a short time before the oper- ation may arrest the return of blood, whilst it may not stop its influx. Tims engorgement of the lower part of the limb is produced, and tlio quan- tity of blood that must be lost is increased. For a similar rfiason, pressure sufficienily firm to stop arterial hemorrhage,' is to be continued till the principal branches are tied, and then entirely re- moved ; for the continuance of even slight pros- sure will increase the flow of blood from the sur- face of the stump — blood flowing in, and being arrested in its venous return, trickles out through the open ends of the veins. If a circular band be used for the compression, such as the screw- tourniquet, it should be put on quickly, screwed up at once, and then the incisions should not be de- layed one instant." Baron Dupuytren did not em- ploy the common tourniquet, nor any kind of compress furnished with a handle (see Legons Orales, t. iv. p. 298) ; he sometimes availed him- self of an instrument which he termed a com- pressor, and which makes pressure on two opposite points of the limb. (See Legons Orales, £(c. t. iv. p. 386.) If, then, the flow of blood through an artery can easily be commanded by pressure, how are we to explain the occasional continuance of bleeding, notwithstanding the pressure of one, or even two, tourniquets? Without doubt,by the fact that the pads of these instruments, when not duly arranged, do more harm than good, by raising the band oft' the vessel, and perhaps, also, in Mr. Hey's exam- ple, by the additional consideration, that tumors of the fungus hasmatodes kind include a large quantity of blood, and will bleed profusely, and for a considerable time after the main supply of blood to them is cut oft". The same thing happens in the disease called aneurism by anastomosis, as I have had several opportunities of witnessing, but in no instance more strikingly than in one, where, some time after Mr. Hodgson had tied the radial and ulnar arteries, Mr. Lawrence divided every part of the finger, excepting the tendons and bone, and yet a considerable bleeding went on from the iur- ther side of the wound. (See Med. Chir. Trans. vol. ix. p. 216.) The application of the tourniquet is generally left too much to assistants ; but so far as my judg- ment extends, no operator is justified in commencing his incisions before he has examined and fully satisfied himself that the instrument is correctly applied. Mr. Guthrie candidly tells us, that lie once lost an oflicer, in consequence of hemorrhage during amputation of the thrgh, although the tour- niquet W.MS in the charge of a surgeon of ability ; and the advice with which he follows this state- ment is worth recollecting : " In a case of this kind, where it (the tourniquet) is found of little benefit, the surgeon should not continue twisting and turning it, whilst his patient is bleeding, but quit it altogether, and compress the artery against the pubes." This maxim cannot be too highly commended. Mr. Guthrie says, "The pad should be fi:m and rather narrow, and carefully hold directly over the artery, whilst the ends of the bandage, in which it is contained, are pmued on the thigh. The str.ap of the tourniquet is then to be put round the limb, the instrument itself being directly over the pad, with the screw entirely free. The strap is then to be drawn tight, and buckled on tlie outside, so as to prevent its slipping, and not inter- fere with the screw, which is to be turned until the pressure is sulficieiitly forcible to stop the cir- culation. If the screw require to be turned lor more than half its number of turns to elloct t lis, the strap is not sufliciently t'i'l'f. oi" 1"^^ ''■■^^