BOOKS printed for R. BALDWIN, 6V. 10. Pamela; or Virtue rewarded. In a Series of Familiar Letters, from a beautiful young Damfel to her Parents. 4 Vols. 13th Edition. Price 14s. 11. Clarissa; or, The Hiftory of a young Lady ; com- prehending the moil important Concerns of private Life, in 8 Vols. i2mo. Price il. 8s. 12. Meditations and Contemplations. Containing Meditations among the Tombs—Reflexions, on a Flower Garden—And, a Defiant on Creation. Contemplations on the Night—Contemplations on the Harry Heavens.—And, A winter Piece. By James Hervey, A. M. Late ReXor of Wefton Flavel!, in Northamtonfhire. In one Vol. fmall OXavo, neatly printed from a Copy correXed by the Author a fhort Time before his Deceafe, and adorned with two Frontifpieces engraved by Grignion. A new Edition Price 5s. The fame in one Volume, large 3vo, Price ys. (C^4 The fame in one Vol. i2mo. Price 3s. 13. R eligious Courtship, being hiftorical Difcourfeson the Necefllty of marrying religious Hufbands and Wives only. As alfo. Of Hufbands and Wives being of the fame Opinions in Religion with one another; with an Appendix on the Neceflity of taking none but religious Servants^ and a Propofal for the better managing Servants, 21ft Edit. i2mo. Price 3s. 14. A Familar Explanation of the Law of Wills and Codicils, and of the Law of Rxecutors and Adminiftra- tors. Alfo the Rules by which Eftates in general defcend, with the Diflribution of perfonal Property, when no Will is made. To which is added. Plain InflruXions for every Per- fon to make his own Will, with the neceflary Forms for that Purpofe ; and the Expence of obtaining Probates and Letters of Adminiflration. By T. E. Tomlins of the Inner Temple. Barrifter at Law. 5th Edit. correXed. 15. A Key to Civil Architecture; or, the Universal British Builder, containing the Principles and Properties of Building, with a Differtation on the Sciences appertaining thereto, as v/ell as the kindred Requifites of Strength, Beauty, Convenience, and Propriety, and a flriX Enquiry into the prefentMode of finifhing ; alfo, A New Criterion, or Univer- fal Eflimator, refpeXing the Quantity and Quality of Ma- terials, the feveral Prices to be charged, be. be. intended for the life of the Gentleman as well as the Mailer and Jour- neyman Artificer. To which are added, fuch Rules in Arith- metic as are mod ufeful in the Building Branches. By Thomas Skaife, P. A. A New Edition, being the third, carefully cor- reXed, with the Addition of two ufeful Plates on the Con- HruXion of Stair Cafes. Price 6s. bound.